The Powerful  
Backing of  
American Express
2020-2021  
Environmental, Social, and 
Governance Report3 ABOUT THIS REPORT
4 LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND CEO
7 ABOUT AMERICAN EXPRESS
8 OUR COMMITMENT TO ESG
10  Our ESG Strategy and Governance  
Framework
11 ESG Strategy Pillars
14 Setting Our Priorities
15 Engaging Our Stakeholders
17  Advancing the Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs)
18 BACKING OUR COLLEAGUES
22  Fostering an Inclusive and Diverse  
Workplace
30  Putting Colleague Health, Safety, and 
Well-Being First
32  Fostering Personal and Professional  
Growth
33 BACKING OUR CUSTOMERS
36  Setting the Standard for Customer Care
37 Building Financial Confidence
42 Innovating for Our Customers
43 Protecting Our Customers
45 BACKING OUR COMMUNITIES
47 Investing in Our Communities 
51  Backing Our Communities Through the  
Pandemic
53  Enabling Colleagues to Back Our  
Communities54 ADVANCING CLIMATE SOLUTIONS
57  Minimizing Our Climate Impact:  
Moving to Net Zero
57 Investing in Sustainable Operations
60  Enabling Our Customers and Partners to 
Transition to a Low-Carbon Economy
62  Supporting Programs and Initiatives  
to Help Build More Resilient and  
Equitable Communities
63  Environmental Performance Data Summary
64 OPERATING RESPONSIBLY
66 Corporate Governance
68 Risk Management
70 Business Ethics
72  Operating a Responsible Supply Chain
74 APPENDIX
75 TCFD Index
79 SASB Index
82 GRI C ontent Index
87  Limited Assurance Statement of GHG  
EmissionsTABLE OF CONTENTSThis report covers calendar year 2020 and provides qualitative and quantitative information on our approach to managing our 
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) opportunities and risks. In some cases, we also share highlights from programs and 
initiatives that were launched in 2021 to provide more up-to-date information to our stakeholders. 
When we use the terms “American Express, ” “company, ” “we, ” “us, ” or “our” in this report, we mean the American Express Company and its 
subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, unless we state, or the context implies, otherwise.  
Reporting Guidelines and Content
This report follows the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), and T ask Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) reporting guidelines with respect to our priority ESG issues. GRI, SASB, and TCFD indexes can be 
found in the Appendix of the report. 
In this report, the use of the term “materiality” and other similar terms refers to topics that reflect our priority ESG issues. We are not 
using such terms as they are used under the securities or other laws of the United States or any other jurisdiction or as these terms are 
used in the context of financial statements and financial reporting.
We report on ESG issues through this ESG report and the American Express Corporate Social Responsibility website . Additional 
information can be found through our DE&I Progress Report , submissions to the CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project), in our annual 
and quarterly reports on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and on the American Express Investor Relations website . 
Links and references included throughout the report provide direction on where to find additional information.ABOUT THIS REPORT
This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 which are subject to risks and 
uncertainties. The forward-looking statements, including the company’s aspirational ESG commitments and goals, contain words such as “believe, ” “expect, ” 
“anticipate, ” “intend, ” “plan, ” “aim, ” “will, ” “may, ” “should, ” “could, ” “would, ” “likely, ” “potential, ” “commit, ” “hope, ” “continue, ” or other similar expressions. Actual results 
may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors, including: competition, brand perceptions and reputation; an inability to 
develop and market value propositions that appeal to Card Members and new customers; the amount and efficacy of investments in product innovations, resources, 
marketing campaigns and programs; changing customer behaviors, interest in the company’s products, resources and programs, and willingness to access capital 
provided by the company, spend money at small businesses, and value environmentally and socially responsible products and services; management’s inability to 
identify suitable suppliers, grantees, partners and community investments and negotiate acceptable terms; the actual amount the company spends with suppliers, 
on ESG initiatives and to make appropriate salary adjustments, all while implementing operating expense control initiatives; an inability to build partnerships 
and execute programs with other companies and of partners to meet their obligations to the company; changes in developing standards and certifications; 
the cost and availability of renewable energy, carbon removal and carbon offset projects, energy attribute certificates, certified paper, and green buildings, and 
alternatives to single-use plastic; supply chain and market disruption; regulation; potential M&A activity; severe weather conditions, natural disasters and other 
catastrophic events; changes in the company’s real estate, technology, colleague and community engagement, and risk management strategies; an inability of 
waste management systems to divert waste to recycling and composting facilities; and changes in economic or business conditions and the company’s ability to 
grow, improve its financial performance and execute on its strategies. A further description of these and other risks and uncertainties can be found in the company’s 
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020 (the “2020 Annual Report”) and the company’s other filings with the U.S. Securities and 
Exchange Commission. Y ou are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. 
We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. 
This report includes trademarks, such as American Express®, which are protected under applicable intellectual property laws and are the property of the American 
Express Company or its subsidiaries. Solely for convenience, our trademarks and trade names referred to in this report may appear without the ® or TM symbols, 
but such references are not intended to indicate, in any way, that we will not assert, to the fullest extent under applicable law, our rights or the right of the applicable 
licensor to these trademarks and trade names. 
Apex Companies, LLC was engaged to conduct an independent verification of the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reported by American Express for the calendar 
year 2020. The Verification Statement and the scope of work is included on pages 87-89. Y ou may also request a copy of these documents by writing to us at the following address: 
Email: corporatesecretarysoffice@aexp.com  
Attention: Deputy Corporate Secretary 
American Express Company, 200 Vesey Street, New Y ork, New Y ork 10285 Throughout our company’s 170-year history, one thing 
has remained constant: Our strength comes from the 
impact we can make on people’s lives—or what we call 
“the powerful backing of American Express. ”   
At American Express, we have always believed that 
when we take care of our colleagues, they will in turn 
take care of our customers, which will ultimately lead to 
great results for our company, shareholders, and other 
stakeholders. We have also steadfastly believed that as 
a company, we have an obligation to contribute to the 
welfare of the communities in which we live and work, 
as well as to society in general.
That is why since the pandemic hit in early 2020, our 
actions have been guided by one principle: backing 
our colleagues, customers, and communities.  As we 
navigate a second year with the pandemic, I am even 
more convinced that this North Star is vital to our 
company’s resilience and success. 
Though we have seen encouraging improvements, 
progress is uneven, and highly contagious variants 
continue to be a concerning threat. In moving forward, 
the health, safety, and well-being of our colleagues 
remain top priorities, and we are proceeding with 
utmost caution as we develop our reopening plans 
on a location-by-location basis, making necessary 
adjustments as conditions evolve. We also continue to 
mobilize our resources to support the communities 
where we operate and serve globally as they deal with 
the pandemic, such as in India, where we committed 
$5 million to run vaccination camps, secure and deploy 
a number of oxygen concentrators, and provide at-
home testing for our colleagues and their dependents. 
We also established a COVID-19 hotline for American 
Express colleagues and their dependents to help them 
find doctors, hospitals, and other medical assistance.
Beyond our pandemic relief efforts, this past year we 
accelerated our social impact initiatives across the 
company to drive meaningful, lasting change toward a 
more sustainable and equitable future. Last year in our 
Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) Report, 
we introduced our new ESG Strategy and Governance 
Framework, which focused on three core pillars: 
Promote Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DE&I); Build 
Financial Confidence; and Advance Climate Solutions. 
A year into this journey, we have solidified our path 
forward with long-term goals and initiatives to drive our 
ESG priorities in the years ahead.I am proud of the progress we made over the last year, 
but we have more to do. T o fulfill our ESG objectives, 
within this report we are announcing our new ESG 
Strategy Roadmap. Throughout this report, you can 
read more about this roadmap, our ESG goals, and 
how we are already putting the powerful backing of 
American Express into action to drive our ESG  
Strategy forward.
PROMOTE DIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND 
INCLUSION (DE&I)
At American Express, promoting DE&I is not only one of 
the pillars of our ESG Strategy, it is also an integral part 
of our Blue Box Values and culture. 
Last October, we announced our $1 billion multi-year 
DE&I Action Plan, which includes a series of initiatives 
through 2024 to advance racial, ethnic, and gender 
equity for our colleagues, customers, and communities. 
We also announced our achievement of 100 percent 
pay equity across genders globally and across races 
and ethnicities in the US for the first time, and our 
commitment to maintain this goal going forward. In 
May 2021, we published a DE&I Progress Report with 
updates on actions we had taken to achieve our goals, 
and additional workforce diversity disclosures, including 
our 2020 US EEO-1 data. In this report, we are adding 
disclosures on hiring, promotions, retention, and 
median pay for women globally and colleagues from 
diverse races and ethnic backgrounds in the US. This 
fall we plan to publish a standalone DE&I Report that 
spotlights our DE&I efforts, including the diversity data 
disclosed in May and the new DE&I disclosures in this 
report. 
Our advocacy for a more inclusive and equitable 
society reaches beyond our walls. Since we announced 
our DE&I Action Plan, we have spent more than 
$450 million with diverse suppliers and on programs 
and contributions to nonprofit organizations that 
support small businesses owned by members of 
underrepresented groups. This includes our efforts to 
increase our spend with diverse and minority-owned 
suppliers in the US, with the goal of doubling our annual 
spend to $750 million by the end of 2024. In addition, 
we continue to build on the success of the Coalition to 
Back Black Businesses, which we launched last year 
in partnership with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce 
Foundation and four national Black chambers. This 
year, we awarded 25 of the 600 Black-owned small 
businesses who received grants in 2020 additional •   4
LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND CEOINTRODUCTION
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Operating 
ResponsiblyAppendix Colleagues Climate 
Solutions
grants of $25,000 each to support their long-term 
success and resilience. We also partnered with the US 
Black Chambers, Inc. to launch an expanded ByBlack 
platform, which is the only national certification 
program that exclusively verifies businesses majority-
owned by Black individuals and maintains an extensive 
national directory. 
Looking ahead, we plan to continue to take action to 
help create a more equitable and inclusive world where 
everyone has an equal opportunity to thrive. 
BUILD FINANCIAL CONFIDENCE
As one of the largest financial services companies in 
the world with an extensive small business customer 
base and merchant network, as well as over 63,000 
colleagues around the world, we have an opportunity—
and responsibility—to play a part in the financial 
confidence of our communities. 
We are providing financial support to small businesses 
that have been most vulnerable to the economic 
impacts of the pandemic, and we are investing in their 
resilience and growth through recovery, and beyond. 
Building on our $200 million campaign last year, we 
launched our Let’s Go Shop Small campaign this 
summer with a $100 million commitment to promote 
spending with small businesses globally as part of our 
year-round Shop Small initiative. We also partnered 
with the National T rust for Historic Preservation to 
launch a $1 million Backing Historic Small Restaurants 
grant program to support 25 historically significant 
restaurants with their recovery from the pandemic, 
with a focus on establishments owned by women and underrepresented minorities. Additionally, our 
$40 million commitment to the Accion Opportunity 
Fund can help accelerate small business growth, 
channeling loans to historically underfunded small 
businesses, including those owned by women and 
underrepresented minorities in the US. And through our 
100 for 100 program, we are working with IFundWomen 
of Color to provide 100 Black women entrepreneurs 
with $25,000 grants and 100 days of business 
resources including mentoring, marketing, and virtual 
networking.
T o help boost financial confidence among our 
customers, we launched new credit management 
tools, such as MyCredit Guide and Score Goals on 
our mobile app to help them better understand and 
improve their credit scores. We also expanded our 
financial relief programs in more than 20 countries 
which helped give our customers time to regain their 
footing, and maintained the lowest US fraud rate 
among major credit card networks. In addition, we 
have announced our goal of providing access to credit 
to at least 4 million individuals from underserved or 
underrepresented populations from 2021 through 2025 
and providing at least 5 million individuals with tools, 
resources, and educational content to improve financial 
well-being from 2021 through 2025.
We are also supporting our colleagues’ financial well-
being, having recently expanded our Smart Saving 
programs with additional financial education sessions 
related to market changes during the pandemic and 
offering US colleagues a student loan debt promotion 
for the second consecutive year.  •   5 INTRODUCTION
Throughout our company’s 170-year history, 
one thing has remained constant: Our 
strength comes from the impact we can 
make on people’s lives—or what we call ‘the 
powerful backing of American Express. ’
I am proud of the progress we made over the last year, but we have more to 
do. T o fulfill our ESG objectives, within this report we are announcing our new 
ESG Strategy Roadmap. Throughout this report, you can read more about this 
roadmap, our ESG goals, and how we are already putting the powerful backing of 
American Express into action to drive our ESG Strategy forward. ”
— Stephen J. Squeri, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Operating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix Climate 
SolutionsADVANCE CLIMATE SOLUTIONS  
The world has witnessed countless natural disasters—from wildfires, to tropical storms, to flash 
floods and earthquakes—that have devastated communities around the world. Whether we were 
directly impacted or not, we have all been reminded of the risks we face from climate change, and 
we must act. That is why, beyond helping with immediate disaster relief efforts around the world, 
we are committed to advancing sustainable climate solutions over the long term as we think 
about the future of our company, how we operate, and our responsibility to our communities and 
the environment. 
Since 2018, we have been a CarbonNeutral® company powered by 100% renewable electricity 
across our global operations. In the past year, we also conducted assessments, looking into 
climate change-related physical and transition risks facing our business in alignment with the 
T ask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
T o further reduce our carbon footprint and build a more sustainable future, this year we are 
committing to net-zero emissions by 2035 in alignment with the Science Based T argets initiative 
(SBTi). Since our operations are already carbon neutral, accomplishing our new goal will mean 
embracing opportunities to innovate and incorporate sustainability across our business and 
with our vendors and other business partners. Our goal is also to provide at least $10 million 
to support initiatives, partnerships, and programs that address the adverse effects of climate 
change and pollution on communities from 2021 through 2025.
ADVANCING OUR NEW ESG STRATEGY ROADMAP: POWERFUL BACKING 
As we look ahead, our commitment to making a meaningful impact in people’s lives will continue 
to guide all aspects of our business, including our ESG strategy. 
I am proud of the progress we have made to date thanks to the hard work and dedication of our 
colleagues globally, but we’re just getting started. We know we have much more to do to fulfill 
our ESG objectives and are focused on accelerating our path forward. I am confident we are 
well-positioned to help build the sustainable, inclusive, prosperous future we want to see for our 
company, our colleagues, our customers, and our communities.•  6 INTRODUCTION
STEPHEN J. SQUERI  
CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Operating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix Climate 
SolutionsA Heritage Built on Service and Sustained by Innovation
We are a globally integrated payments company that provides customers with access to products, insights, and experiences that enrich 
lives and build business success. Since 1850, we’ve worked to make a difference in our customers’ lives. Our integrated payments platform 
includes card-issuing, merchant-acquiring, and card network businesses. Headquartered in New Y ork, we are a leader in providing 
payment products and services to consumers, small businesses, mid-sized companies, and large corporations around the world. 
We promise to understand, respect, and back our customers, and help them on their journeys. Because when they thrive, so do we. •   7 INTRODUCTION
ABOUT AMERICAN EXPRESS
Our Products and Services
 ·Credit cards, charge cards, and other payment and financing products
 ·Merchant acquisition and processing, servicing and settlement, and point-of-sale 
marketing and information products and services for merchants
 ·Network services
 ·Other fee services, including fraud prevention and the design and operation of 
customer loyalty programs
 ·Expense management products and services
 ·T ravel and lifestyle services
colleagues 
(employees)63,700
cards-in-force112 million#1 – J.D. Power 
2020 US Credit Card 
Satisfaction Study2020 by the Numbers
#10 – FORTUNE 100 Best Companies to Work For 
#20 – FORTUNE 
World’s Most 
Admired Companiesin revenues$36.1 billion
(Y ear ending December 31, 2020)in worldwide network volumes$1.04 trillionin net income$3.1 billion
Appendix Climate 
SolutionsESG Introduction Customers Communities Operating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix Climate 
SolutionsENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE ISSUES ARE 
INCREASINGLY IMPORTANT TO GLOBAL PROSPERITY AND 
BUSINESS SUCCESS.
At American Express, we see effective ESG management as critical to charting a path to a 
sustainable, inclusive, and successful future. For years, we have mobilized our business to address 
pressing global challenges, delivering high impact initiatives serving our colleagues, customers, 
communities, and other partners.OUR COMMITMENT TO ESG
OUR ESG STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK  10
ESG STRATEGY PILLARS 11
SETTING OUR PRIORITIES  14
ENGAGING OUR STAKEHOLDERS 15
ADVANCING THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGS)  17
In 2020 and 2021, we built on these strong foundations by rolling out a new global ESG strategy. This sets ambitious objectives in three 
critical areas for our company, stakeholders, and society: Promote Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DE&I); Build Financial Confidence; 
and Advance Climate Solutions. T o guide the strategy, we set goals including a $1 billion DE&I Action Plan and pledges to achieve net-
zero carbon emissions, and support small businesses, including by reaching $100 billion in spending by consumers on Small Business 
Saturday and during other Shop Small campaigns, as described in more detail below. 
The mission driving this strategy is to back people and businesses to thrive and create equitable, resilient, and sustainable communities 
globally. As the world emerges from the pandemic, we want to help shape a fairer future that provides opportunity for all. 
This section provides an overview of our new ESG strategy, objectives, and goals. The rest of the report provides more detail on how our 
ESG initiatives, programs, and investments connect to our colleagues, customers, communities, and approach to climate change and 
environmental management. For information on ESG governance and risk management at American Express, see Operating Responsibly 
(page 64).
Our Approach to ESG 
Our new ESG Strategy Roadmap lays out the goals and objectives we developed in 2020 and 2021 to support our ESG pillars (see Our ESG 
Strategy and Governance Framework on page 10). It represents an evolution of our longstanding Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 
initiatives and is based on an assessment of the priority ESG issues that matter most to our business and stakeholders (see Setting Our 
Priorities on page 14). 
Our ESG Steering Committee, established in 2020 and led by senior executives from across the company, set the new objectives and 
goals described on pages 10-13. Its work is complemented by our new Office of Enterprise Inclusion, Diversity, and Business Engagement, 
also established in 2020, which mobilizes resources to support our new DE&I goals, including a $1 billion DE&I Action Plan to benefit our 
colleagues, customers, and communities (see Progress on Our $1 Billion DE&I Action Plan on page 11).
Below, we publish our ESG objectives and goals in full for the first time. The highlights that follow on DE&I, Building Financial Confidence, 
and Advancing Climate Solutions highlight our early progress in implementing the strategy through mid-2021. •   9 OUR COMMITMENT TO ESG
OUR COMMITMENT TO ESG  
Our ESG Mission
Back people and businesses to thrive and 
create equitable, resilient, and sustainable 
communities globally
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Operating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix Climate 
Solutions•   10 OUR COMMITMENT TO ESG
OUR ESG STRATEGY AND  
GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK 
MISSION: BACK PEOPLE AND BUSINESSES TO THRIVE AND CREATE EQUITABLE,  
RESILIENT , AND SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES GLOBALLY
SOUND GOVERNANCE INCLUDING BUSINESS ETHICS, TRANSPARENCY, AND ACCOUNTABILITYSTAKEHOLDERS INCLUDING SHAREHOLDERS, COLLEAGUES, CUSTOMERS, AND COMMUNITIES
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES
Nominating, Governance, and Public Responsibility CommitteePROMOTE DIVERSITY, EQUITY, 
AND INCLUSION  
Support a diverse, equitable, and 
inclusive workforce, marketplace,  
and society
·   Enhance diverse representation, equal 
opportunity, and an inclusive culture 
at all levels of the company
·   Meet the needs of underrepresented 
businesses and consumers and 
develop more inclusive marketing 
initiatives
·   Advance racial equality and social 
justice in our communitiesBUILD FINANCIAL CONFIDENCE  
Provide responsible, secure, and 
transparent products and services 
to help people and businesses build 
financial resilience
·   Empower individuals to build and 
maintain their financial well-being 
through products, services, tools, 
and education, while providing robust 
account security
·   Strengthen the financial security 
and money management capacity of 
small businesses through products, 
services, campaigns, and initiatives
·   Help build resilient communities 
through grants, programs, and 
initiatives that support economic 
empowerment and equity
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
ESG WORKING GROUPSESG STEERING COMMITTEEADVANCE CLIMATE SOLUTIONS  
Enhance our operations and capabilities  
to meet customer and community needs 
in the transition to a low-carbon future
·   Minimize our climate impact and 
manage our climate-related risks and 
opportunities
·   Enable our customers and partners to 
transition to a low-carbon economy 
through the development of new 
capabilities 
·   Support community programs and 
initiatives to help build more climate 
resilient and equitable communities
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Operating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix Climate 
Solutions2020-2021 Highlights
•   11 OUR COMMITMENT TO ESG
ESG STRATEGY PILLARS:  
PROMOTE DIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND INCLUSION 
PROGRESS ON OUR $1 BILLION DE&I ACTION PLAN
In October 2020, we announced a $1 billion DE&I Action 
Plan containing goals and commitments through 2024 to 
promote diversity, equity, and inclusion in our workplace, the 
marketplace, and wider society. This global DE&I strategy 
shapes how we strengthen our culture of belonging, hire and 
develop diverse colleagues, engage suppliers, and support 
efforts to improve financial access and social conditions in 
communities where we live and work. 
Since announcing the DE&I Action Plan, we’ve spent more than 
$450 million on DE&I initiatives through mid-2021. Spending 
includes payments to diverse suppliers, financial assistance for 
minority-owned businesses, colleague education and training, 
investments in pay equity, and philanthropic contributions. For 
more on our DE&I strategy, commitments, and actions, see our 
2021 DE&I Progress Report .Fostering an Inclusive and Diverse Workplace 22
Partnering to Support BIPOC- and Women-Owned Businesses 39
Promoting Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion 49
Operating a Responsible Supply Chain 72T o learn more about our efforts to foster diversity, equity, and inclusion, see:New Goals · Maintain 100% pay equity across genders globally 
and across races and ethnicities in the US  
· Double annual spend with diverse and minority-
owned suppliers in the US from a 2019 baseline to 
$750 million by the end of 2024, including increasing 
spend with Black-owned suppliers to at least $100 
million annually  
· Provide access to capital and financial education 
to at least 250,000 Black- and minority-owned 
small- and medium-sized businesses in the US 
from late 2020 through 2024  · Develop more inclusive marketing initiatives, as well 
as design and build product experiences and programs 
that better meet the needs of underrepresented 
consumer and business customers
· Provide $50 million in grants from late 2020 
through 2024 to nonprofits led by people of color 
or members of underrepresented groups, including 
organizations focused on addressing inequality and 
promoting social justice
· Increase the representation of American Express 
Leadership Academy participants in the US who are 
people of color or from underrepresented groups 
from 50% in 2019 to 75% by the end of 2024
· Achieved 100% pay equity for colleagues across genders globally  
and across races and ethnicities in the United States
· Encouraged colleagues in major office locations to self-identify  
across gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, and disability  
depending on their location
· Pledged $40 million to the Accion Opportunity Fund to expand  
access to loans for historically underfunded small businesses,  
including those owned by women and underrepresented  
minorities
· Provided more than $16 million in grants to nonprofits  
committed to social justice and issues impacting people  
of color and underrepresented groups   
· Pledged $10 million over the next four years to the Coalition to Back 
Black Businesses, our grantmaking and training initiative in  
partnership with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Foundation to  
support Black-owned small businesses 
· Launched the Backing Historic Small Restaurants program with the 
National T rust for Historic Preservation, focusing on establishments 
owned by women and underrepresented minorities
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Operating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix Climate 
Solutions•   12 OUR COMMITMENT TO ESG
2020-2021 Highlights
As small businesses globally, including many of our 
customers, struggled with the pandemic’s economic fallout, 
we stepped up our annual efforts encouraging consumers to 
‘shop small’ . During 2020, we spent more than $200 million 
on a consumer Card Member offer and related marketing to 
jumpstart our largest global Shop Small campaign to date. 
We believe our efforts helped deliver an estimated 
$19.8 billion in reported spending by US consumers at 
independent retailers and restaurants on Small Business 
Saturday in November.2 In the UK, where we are also a 
founding sponsor of Small Business Saturday, consumers 
spent an estimated £1.1 billion on December 5, 2020.3  
Other successful campaigns took place in Canada, Japan, 
and Mexico while Australia staged its eighth Shop Small 
campaign. For more, see Backing Our Customers (page 33).Helping Colleagues Build Financial Confidence  31
Strengthening Small Businesses  37
Empowering Consumers 40
Protecting Our Customers 43
Building Financial Confidence 51
Safeguarding Data and Protecting Privacy 70T o learn more about our efforts to build financial confidence, see:
·  Spent more than $200 million on our largest-ever global Shop 
Small campaign to support a Card Member offer and related 
marketing 
·  Supported small businesses, including an estimated $19.8 billion 
in reported spending by US consumers at independent retailers 
and restaurants on Small Business Saturday2  
·  Created a short-term Customer Pandemic Relief Program, and 
enhanced and expanded our longer-term Financial Relief Program, 
to assist customers in need across more than 20 countries
·  Released MyCredit Guide on our mobile app in the US and Score 
Goals, a new tool to help US consumers improve their credit score
·  Launched a five-part branded content series (docuseries) to 
guide consumers on financial topics
·  Maintained the lowest US fraud rates among major credit  
card networks
New Goals · Provide access to credit to at least  
4 million individuals from underserved or 
underrepresented populations from 2021 
through 2025
 · Provide at least 5 million individuals with 
tools, resources, and educational content 
to improve financial well-being from 2021 
through 2025· Support small businesses, including 
by reaching $100 billion in spending by 
consumers at small, independently-owned 
retailers or restaurants on Small Business 
Saturday and during other Shop Small 
campaigns from 2021 through 20251  
 · Invest $500 million to build more resilient and 
equitable communities from 2021 through 2025
1. Based on spend as reported by consumers in surveys commissioned by American Express (not actual receipts or sales).
2. The American Express 2020 Small Business Saturday Consumer Insights Survey was conducted by T eneo on behalf of American Express and the National 
Federation of Independent Business (NFIB). The study is a nationally representative sample of 2,572 US adults 18 years of age or older. The sample was collected 
using an email invitation and an online survey. The study gathered self-reported data and does not reflect actual receipts or sales. It was conducted anonymously 
on November 29, 2020. The survey has an overall margin of error of +/- 2.0%, at the 95% level of confidence. Projections are based on the current US Census 
estimates of the US adult population, aged 18 years and over.
3. 3,701 UK adults were polled by T oluna between 5pm on Saturday 5 December 2020 and 11am on Monday 7 December 2020. £1.1 billion figure for national spending 
calculated using ONS estimation of the UK adult population.OUR SHOP SMALL CAMPAIGN  
EXPANDS GLOBALLY  ESG STRATEGY PILLARS:  
BUILD FINANCIAL CONFIDENCE 
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Operating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix Climate 
Solutions•   13 OUR COMMITMENT TO ESG
ESG STRATEGY PILLARS:  
ADVANCE CLIMATE SOLUTIONS 
2020-2021 Highlights
MOVING TO NET ZERO BY 2035
We are committed to supporting a low-carbon economy 
in line with the science-based recommendations of the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). T o 
this end, we committed in 2021 to net-zero emissions by 
2035. This target is aligned with 1.5 degree Celsius of global 
warming—the most ambitious level of the SBTi framework. 
Since our operations are already carbon neutral, the focus 
for accomplishing our new goal will be on our vendors and 
other business partners. As a first step, we plan to partner 
with our top vendors, responsible for half of our annual 
supplier spend, to set their own science-based emissions 
reduction targets. For more, see Minimizing Our Climate 
Impact: Moving to Net Zero (page 57) and the TCFD Index 
(page 75).T o learn more about our efforts to advance climate solutions, see:New Goals · Commit to net-zero emissions by 2035 in 
alignment with the Science Based T argets 
initiative (SBTi) 
· Enhance the management of climate-related 
risks and opportunities across our business
· Pilot low-carbon product innovations, 
including carbon tracking and offset  
solutions, by the end of 2022· Provide at least $10 million to support initiatives, 
partnerships, and programs that address the 
adverse effects of climate change and pollution on 
communities from 2021 through 2025
· Engage our colleagues in sustainability 
initiatives through the Green2Gether program
·  Maintained carbon neutral operations since 20184 
·  Powered our operations with 100% renewable electricity  
since 2018
·  Conducted a climate risk scenario analysis based on 
the T ask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD) framework on physical and transitional risks 
related to climate change
·  Sourced 95% of direct marketing, customer 
communications, and office paper use from certified 
responsibly managed forests
·  Funded the planting of more than 150,000 trees through 
colleague engagement campaigns during Earth Month in 2020 
and 2021
Minimizing Our Climate Impact: Moving to Net Zero 57 
Investing in Sustainable Operations 57 
Enabling Our Customers and Partners to Transition  
to a Low-Carbon Economy 60  
Supporting Programs and Initiatives to Help Build More  
Resilient and Equitable Communities 62  
Environmental Performance Data Summary 63 
TCFD Index 75
4. Achieved zero net carbon emissions for Scopes 1, 2, and 3 (waste and employee business travel, including third-party air, rail, and rental cars) through renewable 
energy credits, carbon offsets, and reduced GHG emissions. Operations include all our managed facilities, field sites and data centers. Managed facilities are 
individual properties operationally managed by our global real estate team and housing critical business functions. Field sites are individual properties that are not 
operationally managed by our global real estate team but directly by our business units. They are typically smaller sites, less than 30,000 square feet (including 
airport lounges, foreign exchange kiosks, and sales offices) that are owned or leased by American Express.
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Operating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix Climate 
SolutionsIn 2020, we completed a comprehensive ESG materiality analysis to update our priority ESG issues. We collaborated with the think tank 
and advisory firm SustainAbility to guide our approach and used the following methodology:  
1.   Current State Assessment: We conducted internal business research and external benchmarking to identify the most relevant 
ESG issues to our key stakeholders, industry, and company. As part of this process, we utilized an ESG big data software platform to 
review and integrate thousands of peer documents, regulations, and other relevant data points. Additionally, we evaluated leading 
ESG frameworks, including the Sustainable Accounting Standards Board (SASB), Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs), the T ask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and more to inform our assessment. 
Outputs from the analysis were then consolidated to create a preliminary list of priority ESG issues. 
2.   Stakeholder Input: We utilized findings from our assessment to help guide our approach to collecting stakeholder input. Our third-
party consultants interviewed more than 30 internal and external stakeholders, including the Chairman and CEO, all Executive 
Committee members, shareholders, customers, strategic partners, suppliers, nonprofit organizations, and others. We also conducted 
an ESG colleague survey across 16 business units globally. Further, we compiled and synthesized other ESG-related feedback received 
from stakeholders as part of our ongoing stakeholder engagement processes. Finally, we conducted an analysis of evolving stakeholder 
expectations resulting from the global pandemic and its related impacts on our priority ESG issues. 
3.   ESG Issues Prioritization: Using outputs from our business analysis, benchmarking, and stakeholder engagement activities, we 
ranked our 20 priority ESG issues based on their relative importance to our business and their relative importance to our stakeholders. 
The following matrix highlights these results:•   14 OUR COMMITMENT TO ESG
ESG Priority Issues Matrix
CATEGORIES
Environment
Social/  
Human CapitalGovernance/  
Leadership
Business Model/ 
Innovation
Importance to businessExecutive  
compensationResponsible tax 
practicesWaste reduction  
& recyclingResponsible  
procurementResponsible  
investment  
& financing
Public policy  
practicesBoard  
compositionResponsible  
digitalization
Anti- 
corruption 
& bribery
INCREASING  
IMPORTANCEINCREASING  
IMPORTANCEImportance to stakeholders
Colleague 
health & safety
Social &  
environmental  
innovationCustomer  
satisfactionCommunity 
resiliencyBusiness  
ethicsFinancial 
resiliencyClimate change,  
energy & GHG emissionsData privacy  
& security
Responsible 
travel &  
consumptionInclusion  
& diversity
Colleague  
attraction  
& retention
SETTING OUR PRIORITIES
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Operating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix Climate 
SolutionsStakeholder Group How We Engage
ShareholdersWe provide the investment community with information on our strategy, objectives, and performance on the 
American Express Investor Relations website . In 2020, we met with shareholders representing approximately 
44% of our outstanding shares to discuss executive compensation and other corporate governance issues. T o 
foster direct communication between shareholders and our Board, our Lead Independent Director is available for 
engagement with shareholders.
ColleaguesWe keep colleagues updated on company news, priorities, performance, and business strategies through a variety 
of channels. Our leaders collect ongoing colleague feedback through our annual Colleague Experience Survey, 
open Q&A sessions, Colleague Networks, and our Amex Ethics Hotline. Early in the COVID-19 pandemic, we used 
daily emails and a dedicated intranet site to keep colleagues informed of our fast-moving response, as well as 
town halls and frequent video messages from our CEO.
Customers: Card 
Members, Businesses 
and MerchantsWe have direct relationships with millions of Card Members, businesses, and merchants around the world, whom 
we engage through customer service, direct-to-customer channels, and social media. 
Government  
and RegulatorsWe are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision in jurisdictions around the world. We 
advocate for public policy issues that are significant to our business and our ability to serve our customers by 
providing education and context to government decision-makers. 
SuppliersWe regularly meet with our key suppliers to ensure they understand current business strategies and measures of 
success to meet regulatory and company requirements.
Community and  
Nonprofit 
OrganizationsWe mobilize thousands of colleagues as volunteers through our Serve2Gether program and offer incentives to 
support their favorite nonprofits through Give2Gether, our gift-matching program. We also directly support and 
collaborate with nonprofits, including through the American Express Foundation, and help develop the nonprofit 
and social purpose leaders of tomorrow through the longstanding American Express Leadership Academy.
ESG Research and 
Rating AgenciesWe respond to CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) and other ESG surveys and questionnaires from 
rating agencies and indexes including EcoVadis, FTSE4Good, Sustainalytics, MSCI, and others.
Partners  
and PeersWe engage with our partners and peers through industry groups, roundtables, conferences, and other forums to 
address local and global ESG issues that affect us. For example, we share knowledge of online threats with our 
industry in cybersecurity forums. We regularly engage our key stakeholders to better understand the ESG issues that matter most to them and our business. Their feedback 
informed our priority issues assessment and ESG strategy framework. Our engagement with the following eight stakeholder groups helps 
us to understand and meet their expectations and advance our efforts to operate responsibly.•   15 OUR COMMITMENT TO ESG
Third-Party 
ESG Ratings
A-CDP 
(CLIMATE)  
FTSE4GOOD  
INDEX SERIES
AAMSCI (ESG) 
RATING
Low  
RiskSUSTAINALYTICS 
ESG RISK RATING We monitor our performance across prominent global ESG-related ratings and 
rankings. Below are highlights from our most recent ratings:ENGAGING OUR STAKEHOLDERS
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Operating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix Climate 
SolutionsESG Partnerships  
We create long-term relationships with organizations that share our interests and collaborate to achieve common goals. Key advocacy 
partners and memberships are shown below. •   16 OUR COMMITMENT TO ESG
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 
AND PHILANTHROPYPUBLIC POLICY AND ADVOCACY SOCIAL AND HUMAN CAPITAL
 ·Better Business Bureau of 
Metropolitan New Y ork
 ·Business for Social 
Responsibility 
 ·Chief Executives for Corporate 
Purpose 
 ·Council on Foreign Relations
 ·Emerging Practitioners in 
Philanthropy
 ·Forum for the Future 
 ·Grantmakers for Effective 
Organizations
 ·Hispanic Association on 
Corporate Responsibility
 ·Independent Sector 
 ·Philanthropy New Y ork
 ·Regional Plan Association
 ·The Business Council of New 
Y ork State
 ·The Conference Board
 ·U.S. Chamber of Commerce 
Foundation ·American Bankers Association
 ·Bank Policy Institute
 ·Consumer Bankers Association
 ·Partnership for New Y ork City, 
Inc.
 ·Securities Industry & Financial 
Markets Association
 ·The Business Roundtable
 ·U.S. Chamber of Commerce
 ·U.S. T ravel Association
 ·Western Bankers Association ·AfroT ech
 ·Association of Latino 
Professionals for America
 ·Black Enterprise
 ·Blue Circle Leadership
 ·Catalyst
 ·Center for Advanced Human 
Resource Studies
 ·Counsel of Urban Professionals
 ·Disability: IN 
 ·Executive Leadership Council
 ·Grace Hopper
 ·Hispanic Alliance for Career 
Enhancement
 ·Hispanic Scholarship Fund
 ·Jopwell
 ·Management Leadership for 
T omorrow
 ·McKinsey Black Leadership 
Academy
 ·National Association of Black 
Accountants, Inc.
 ·National Black MBA Association
 ·National Society of Black 
Engineers
 ·Reaching Out MBA
 ·Society of Hispanic Professional 
Engineers
 ·Thurgood Marshall College Fund
 ·United Negro College Fund
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Operating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix Climate 
Solutions3  GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING
5  GENDER EQUALITY
8  DECENT WORK AND  
ECONOMIC GROWTH11    SUSTAINABLE CITIES  
AND COMMUNITIES
12    RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION  
AND PRODUCTION13  CLIMATE ACTION
14  LIFE BELOW WATER
17   PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALSThe United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a call for action by all countries to promote prosperity while protecting the 
planet. They recognize that ending poverty must go hand-in-hand with strategies that build economic growth and address pressing social 
needs while tackling climate change and environmental protection. The 17 goals also provide a critical framework for COVID-19 recovery. 
Given our company’s global footprint and role in empowering people and businesses to thrive, we believe we have an important role to 
play in achieving the UN’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. 
After mapping the SDGs to our corporate and ESG initiatives and programs, we believe our work contributes most to the eight Global 
Goals shown below. Examples include giving underrepresented businesses and customers access to financing, securing payments among 
a globally connected network of merchants and customers, supporting small business growth, going carbon neutral, raising awareness 
about marine plastic pollution, and investing in communities around the world. •   17 OUR COMMITMENT TO ESG
ADVANCING THE SUSTAINABLE  
DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGS) 
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Operating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix Climate 
SolutionsAT AMERICAN EXPRESS, WE ARE COMMITTED TO 
DELIVERING A GREAT COLLEAGUE EXPERIENCE EVERY DAY 
ACROSS OUR GLOBAL WORKPLACE.
We strive to foster an inclusive and diverse culture, empower our colleagues and provide them 
equal opportunities to thrive professionally and personally, and invest in tools, technology, and 
resources to support their development and success. This people-centered approach benefits our 
business by fostering a welcoming, innovative, and high-performing culture for our dedicated and 
talented colleagues globally. BACKING OUR  
COLLEAGUES
FOSTERING AN INCLUSIVE AND DIVERSE WORKPLACE 22 
PUTTING COLLEAGUE HEALTH, SAFETY, AND WELL-BEING FIRST 30 
FOSTERING PERSONAL AND PROFESSIONAL GROWTH  32
We have a long history of backing our colleagues, offering resources that support their physical, financial, mental, and social well-being. 
During the events of 2020 and 2021, we put our colleagues’ health and well-being front and center in navigating through the pandemic, 
and examined ways to advance our commitment to making a positive impact in our communities as a responsible business. Throughout 
the global health crisis, our colleagues have been a top priority. T o give them the security, flexibility, and resources they needed to stay 
safe, healthy, and productive, we quickly moved to work from home arrangements for virtually all our 60,000+ workforce and in mid-2021, 
most colleagues remained working from home with the option to continue doing so temporarily until January 2022 or beyond, depending 
on local conditions. 
As the United States and countries around the world engaged in a reckoning over racial, ethnic, and social injustices, we took a hard 
look at our own practices to identify ways to further strengthen our commitment to advancing DE&I for our colleagues, customers, and 
communities. This led to the creation of the Office of Enterprise Inclusion, Diversity, and Business Engagement and our $1 billion multi-
year DE&I Action Plan to support a diverse, equitable, and inclusive workforce, marketplace, and society, which is one of the core pillars of 
our new ESG strategy (see box below).  •   19 BACKING OUR COLLEAGUES
BACKING OUR COLLEAGUES
How Our ESG Strategy Connects to Colleagues 
Build Financial Confidence: Empower individuals to 
build and maintain their financial well-being through 
products, services, tools, and education while providing 
robust account security ·Provide at least 5 million individuals with 
tools, resources, and educational content 
to improve financial well-being from 2021 
through 2025 OBJECTIVES GOALS
Promote Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion: 
Enhance diverse representation, equal 
opportunity, and an inclusive culture at all 
levels of the company ·Maintain 100% pay equity across genders 
globally and across races and ethnicities 
in the United States
Advance Climate Solutions: Support 
community programs and initiatives to help  
build more climate resilient and equitable 
communities ·Engage our colleagues in sustainability 
initiatives through the Green2Gether 
program
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Operating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix Climate 
Solutions•   20 BACKING OUR COLLEAGUES
IMPROVING OUR COLLEAGUES’ EXPERIENCE
We work hard to be a great place for our colleagues to join and grow their careers. This welcoming culture holds true across our global 
offices and starts with our Blue Box Values, which include “We Embrace Diversity” and “We Stand for Inclusion. ” For more about our values, 
see Operating Responsibly, page 64.
Feedback from our colleagues suggests that they feel valued and agree that we have their backs. We conduct an annual online Colleague 
Experience Survey to better understand their needs and perspectives, and our Board of Directors and senior management review the 
results. In 2020, 94% of participants said they would recommend American Express as a great place to work. Based on the survey’s 
findings, we will continue our focus on strong enterprise leadership, and maximizing the positive shift we are seeing in the way we work 
when it comes to flexibility and agile decision-making. We will also seek to learn more about how our colleagues identify themselves in 
order to inform our commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion. 
The strong bonds among our colleagues shone through during the global workplace disruption triggered by the pandemic. In 2020, 83% 
of colleagues received appreciation from their peers through Reward Blue. Reward Blue is a global reward and recognition program that 
we have run since 2010 to reinforce a culture of appreciation where colleagues praise one another’s everyday effort, recognize exceptional 
results, and celebrate important anniversaries.  
In 2021, we also granted US colleagues up to one full day of paid time off to vote in federal, state, and local elections, extending the three 
hours of paid time off provided for voting in 2020.  2020-2021 Highlights  
 · Launched the Office of Enterprise Inclusion, Diversity, and Business Engagement to 
drive meaningful, long-term change within and beyond our company
 ·Achieved 100% pay equity for colleagues across genders globally and across races 
and ethnicities in the United States
 ·Enhanced our hiring, talent development, and colleague engagement practices 
to promote a diverse and inclusive workplace and sense of belonging for all 
colleagues, including partnerships to develop a diverse pipeline of talent, 
educational programs, discussion forums, and colleague networks
 ·Moved to temporary work from home arrangements in virtually all our locations 
from spring 2020. We are offering colleagues this option until January 2022 or 
beyond, depending on local conditions
 ·Provided colleagues with eight hours of paid time off to obtain COVID-19 
vaccinations and partnered with departments of health and hospitals in the US and 
India to host on-site vaccine clinics for colleagues and their families 
 ·Covered all out-of-pocket medical and pharmacy costs related to COVID-19 testing 
and treatment for colleagues enrolled in our US medical plans 
 ·Provided a number of free oxygen concentrators to colleagues and their 
dependents in India who had been prescribed the equipment to deal with health 
issues associated with COVID-19
 ·Ran more than 740 well-being and exercise sessions that attracted 17 ,900 views
 ·Made available thousands of professional or personal development trainings and 
other programs to colleagues worldwide FOSTER AN 
INCLUSIVE,  
DIVERSE 
WORKPLACE 
PRIORITIZE COLLEAGUE 
HEALTH, SAFETY, AND  
WELL-BEING
PROVIDE LEARNING AND  
DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITIESOur Focus Areas What We Accomplished
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Operating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix Climate 
Solutions•   21 BACKING OUR COLLEAGUES
Our focus on colleagues continues to earn us industry awards and recognition. Here are some from 2020 and 2021 that make us  
most proud.
FORTUNE Best Workplaces in 
Financial Services & InsuranceRanked #3Anita Borg T op Companies 
for Women T echnologistsWorkplace Awards and Recognition
Hispanic Alliance for 
Career Enhancement 
2020 Corporate 
Champion of the Y ear
Working Families T op 10 
Employers in the U.K. Bloomberg’s Gender-
Equality IndexSince 2016
Working Mother 
Best Companies 
for Multicultural 
Women
Working Mother 100 
Best CompaniesKincentric Best 
Employers in MalaysiaWorking 
Mother Best 
Companies 
for Dads
Australian Workplace Gender 
Equality Agency Employer of 
Choice for Gender EqualityForbes America’s Best 
Employers for DiversityRanked #24
Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate 
Equality Index 100% since 2004
Great Place to Work: Best 
Workplaces in ItalyRanked #1Newsweek and Statista America’s 
Most Responsible CompaniesRanked #12
PEOPLE Companies 
That CareRanked #10Forbes Best Employers 
for New GradsRanked #54FORTUNE World’s Most 
Admired CompaniesRanked #20
FORTUNE 100 Best Companies  
to Work ForRanked #10FORTUNE 100 Best Workplaces 
for WomenRanked #15
Forbes Best Companies 
to Work for in Spain 
(ranked #5; #1 Best 
Credit Card Company)FORTUNE 
Measure Up List 
(ranked #29)FORTUNE Best Large 
Workplaces in New Y orkRanked #1
FORTUNE Best 
Large Workplaces for 
Millennials Ranked #9
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Operating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix Climate 
SolutionsWe have a longstanding commitment to building an inclusive and diverse workplace that values every voice, rewards teamwork, celebrates 
different points of view, and reflects the diversity of the communities in which we operate. 
Therefore, Promoting DE&I is a core pillar of our new ESG Strategy and includes commitments to enhance diverse representation, equal 
opportunity, and an inclusive culture for our colleagues. Our $1 billion multi-year DE&I Action Plan is designed to drive meaningful, long-
term change within and beyond our own workplace. Already, we have spent more than $450 million primarily on payments to diverse 
suppliers, as well as on a range of initiatives, which include colleague education and training and pay equity. 
Our senior executives are accountable for achieving diverse representation at all levels across the organization. Our company scorecard, 
which we use to measure our performance and progress on our business strategy and priorities, includes goals and metrics related to 
diversity, talent, and culture. We review these metrics and our progress against our goals annually to hold ourselves accountable. 
2020 Global Workforce Representation
T o ensure more balanced representation across all levels of our company, we have established recruitment, hiring, and promotion 
practices to attract, develop, and retain a diverse group of colleagues. Our focus is on providing inclusive and equitable recruitment and 
advancement opportunities for our colleagues to ensure diverse representation at all levels reflective of our society. While we have more 
work to do, we feel encouraged by our progress, especially among our more senior ranks.FOSTERING AN INCLUSIVE AND  
DIVERSE WORKPLACE
2020 WORKFORCE HIGHLIGHTS
OF OUR EXECUTIVE 
COMMITTEE WERE WOMEN 
OR FROM DIVERSE RACES 
AND ETHNIC BACKGROUNDS56%
OF OUR TOTAL 
GLOBAL WORKFORCE 
WERE WOMEN52%
OF OUR US WORKFORCE 
WERE FROM DIVERSE 
RACES AND ETHNIC 
BACKGROUNDS148%
1. Based on data for the 2020 US Employer Information Report (EEO-1) submission for Black/African American, Hispanic/Latino, Asian, Native American or Alaskan 
Native, Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander, and two or more races.•   22 BACKING OUR COLLEAGUES
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Operating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix Climate 
Solutions2. Based on self-identified characteristics. Data is following our 2021 annual meeting.
3. As of year-end 2020; based on the US Employer Information Report (EEO-1) job categories. Some percentages do not sum due to rounding.
4. Undeclared is a legally offered option in certain non-US jurisdictions; in the US, gender is required for EEO-1 reporting.
5. All Others includes T echnicians, Sales Workers, Administrative Support, Craft Workers, Operatives, Laborers and Helpers, and Service Workers categories. Job 
nomenclature at American Express does not align completely with the EEO-1 form.BOARD OF DIRECTORS DEMOGRAPHICS2 
OF OUR BOARD MEMBERS 
WERE WOMEN OR FROM 
DIVERSE RACES AND 
ETHNIC BACKGROUNDS60%
9 White or Caucasian1 Hispanic or Latinx5  Black or African American 11 Men
4 Women5%33%
7%60%RACIAL/ETHNIC 
DIVERSITYGENDER  
DIVERSITY27%
73%
2020 SENIOR VICE PRESIDENTS AND ABOVE
Women (global)40.1%
Black/African American (US)9.8%
Hispanic/Latinx (US)4.9%
Asian (US)12.3%•   23 BACKING OUR COLLEAGUES
US NON-US4GLOBAL SUMMARY4
Job Categories Female Male Female Male Undeclared Female Male Undeclared
Executive/Senior Level  
Officials and Managers41.0% 59.0% 36.0% 64.0% 0.0% 40.1% 59.9% 0.0%
First/Mid Level Officials 
and Managers54.2% 45.8% 47 .2% 52.8% 0.0% 50.9% 49.1% 0.0%
Professionals 41.8% 58.2% 45.6% 54.4% 0.0% 44.2% 55.8% 0.0%
All Others569.7% 30.3% 55.1% 44.8% 0.1% 58.6% 41.4% 0.0%
    T otal 54.5% 45.5% 50.7% 49.3% 0.0% 52.0% 48.0% 0.0%2020 GLOBAL GENDER DIVERSITY3
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Operating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix Climate 
Solutions2020 US WORKFORCE DIVERSITY6
6.  As of year-end 2020; based on the US Employer Information Report (EEO-1) job categories. Some percentages do not sum due to rounding.
7 .  All Others includes T echnicians, Sales Workers, Administrative Support, Craft Workers, Operatives, Laborers and Helpers and Service Workers categories. Job 
nomenclature at American Express does not align completely with the EEO-1 form.Job Categories GenderAmerican 
Indian or 
Alaskan 
Native AsianBlack or 
African 
AmericanHispanic 
or LatinoNative 
Hawaiian 
or Pacific 
IslanderTwo or 
More 
Races WhiteTotal  
Percentage
Executive/Senior 
Level Officials  
and ManagersMale 0.0% 9.0% 4.9% 2.5% 0.0% 0.0% 42.6% 59.0%
Female 0.0% 3.3% 4.9% 2.5% 0.0% 0.0% 30.3% 41.0%
Subtotal 0.0% 12.3% 9.8% 4.9% 0.0% 0.0% 73.0% 100.0%
First/Mid Level 
Officials and 
ManagersMale 0.1% 11.5% 2.9% 4.5% 0.1% 0.8% 26.0% 45.8%
Female 0.1% 10.8% 4.5% 5.4% 0.1% 1.1% 32.3% 54.2%
Subtotal 0.2% 22.3% 7 .3% 9.8% 0.2% 1.9% 58.2% 100.0%
ProfessionalsMale 0.1% 20.9% 3.2% 6.2% 0.1% 1.5% 26.3% 58.2%
Female 0.2% 9.9% 3.7% 5.2% 0.1% 1.1% 21.7% 41.8%
Subtotal 0.3% 30.8% 6.8% 11.4% 0.1% 2.6% 48.0% 100%
All Others7Male 0.1% 1.0% 5.7% 7 .3% 0.2% 1.2% 14.8% 30.3%
Female 0.4% 2.4% 18.6% 12.0% 0.3% 2.8% 33.3% 69.7%
Subtotal 0.5% 3.4% 24.3% 19.3% 0.4% 4.0% 48.1% 100.0%
   T otalMale 0.1% 11.6% 3.8% 5.8% 0.1% 1.1% 23.0% 45.5%
Female 0.2% 8.1% 8.2% 7 .2% 0.1% 1.6% 29.1% 54.5%
T otal 0.3% 19.7% 12.0% 13.0% 0.2% 2.7% 52.1% 100.0%•   24 BACKING OUR COLLEAGUES
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Operating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix Climate 
Solutions2020 EEO-1 DATA8
The summary table below covers our US workforce EEO-1 data as of December 31, 2020.•   25 BACKING OUR COLLEAGUES
8. Based on data for the 2020 US Employer Information Report (EEO-1) filed with the US Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. Where there are no employees 
in an EEO-1 job category during the reporting period, a dash (—) is indicated.Job Categories GenderAmerican 
Indian or 
Alaskan 
Native AsianBlack or 
African 
AmericanHispanic 
or LatinoNative 
Hawaiian 
or Pacific 
IslanderTwo or 
More 
Races WhiteTotal  
Count
Executive/Senior 
Level Officials  
and ManagersMale 0 11 6 3 0 0 52 72
Female 0 4 6 3 0 0 37 50
Subtotal 0 15 12 6 0 0 89 122
First/Mid Level  
Officials and 
ManagersMale 9 995 249 385 8 66 2245 3957
Female 11 931 385 466 8 96 2787 4684
Subtotal 20 1926 634 851 16 162 5032 8641
ProfessionalsMale 10 1503 227 449 4 106 1897 4196
Female 12 713 265 372 5 79 1562 3008
Subtotal 22 2216 492 821 9 185 3459 7204
T echniciansMale 1 2 20 40 0 1 47 111
Female 0 2 5 15 0 0 9 31
Subtotal 1 4 25 55 0 1 56 142
Sales WorkersMale 1 16 51 62 3 14 373 520
Female 1 27 57 62 0 16 394 557
Subtotal 2 43 108 124 3 30 767 1077
Administrative 
SupportMale 3 44 285 357 9 60 499 1257
Female 24 123 1105 674 16 157 1679 3778
Subtotal 27 167 1390 1031 25 217 2178 5035
Craft WorkersMale 0 0 0 0 0 0 8 8
Female 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 3
Subtotal 0 0 0 0 0 0 11 11
OperativesMale — — — — — — — —
Female — — — — — — — —
Subtotal — — — — — — — —
Laborers and 
HelpersMale — — — — — — — —
Female — — — — — — — —
Subtotal — — — — — — — —
Service WorkersMale — — — — — — — —
Female — — — — — — — —
Subtotal — — — — — — — —
    T otalMale 24 2571 838 1296 24 247 5121 10121
Female 48 1800 1823 1592 29 348 6471 12111
T otal 72 4371 2661 2888 53 595 11592 22232
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Operating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix Climate 
Solutions•   26 BACKING OUR COLLEAGUES
At American Express, we strive to treat everyone who works for us fairly and equally. We have a longstanding commitment to pay all 
colleagues equitably and maintain bias-free, transparent compensation practices, and we are proud of our leadership in this area. 
Our compensation practices reward colleagues based on performance and other business-related criteria for all roles and levels, and we 
have policies and processes in place to compensate all colleagues fairly and free of biases. We review these practices regularly, and since 
2017 we have also worked each year with independent experts to conduct a pay equity review. Since 2019, this analysis has covered our 
entire global colleague base across genders globally and across races and ethnicities in the US, assessing pay on a statistical basis and 
considering key factors that influence compensation, including but not limited to tenure, role, level, geography, and performance. 
In the past, we aimed to achieve pay “parity”—meaning to the point of statistical insignificance—to ensure colleagues are paid fairly, 
relative to one another. In 2019, we reached that goal, making salary adjustments in targeted areas where needed. Although pay 
parity is a meaningful achievement, we wanted to set an even higher standard for ourselves: to reach 100% pay “equity”—meaning 
no statistical differences—for all genders globally, as well as for colleagues of all races and ethnicities in the US. In 2020, we invested 
in all necessary and appropriate salary adjustments to reach our goal of 100% pay equity. We are proud of this achievement and are 
committed to maintaining this goal going forward.
In addition, we are also enhancing transparency by sharing the “raw median pay gap” for women globally as well as for diverse 
colleagues in the US. This metric compares differences in raw median base pay making no adjustments for factors such as role, level, 
tenure, performance, or geography. In 2020, the median pay for women globally at American Express was 107 .6% of the median pay for 
men, and the median pay for US racially/ethnically diverse colleagues was 94.6% of that for white colleagues.9
We believe our pay equity review provides a more accurate and comprehensive picture of our compensation practices overall because 
it provides a more granular view that considers many important factors known to affect an individual’s compensation. For this reason, 
we use pay equity as the standard we hold ourselves accountable to in order to confirm that our compensation practices and reward 
structure are free of bias.
We remain committed to maintaining 100% pay equity for colleagues across genders globally and across races and ethnicities in the 
US by continuing our annual pay equity review process going forward.
Recruiting Diverse Colleagues and Helping Them Thrive 
Diversity makes our business stronger. By hiring and developing people of all backgrounds and perspectives, we can enrich our 
workplaces, improve our performance, and better reflect the communities we serve. 
We have processes in place to recruit diverse candidates worldwide, including women, minorities, LGBTQ+ individuals, and people with 
disabilities. In 2020 and 2021, we further strengthened our efforts to attract top talent and deliver the best candidate experience, including 
educating leaders about inclusive hiring and interview practices to help minimize inherent bias, and providing our recruiters, interviewers and 
hiring leaders with the tools and resources they need to build and access a diverse slate of candidates and practice inclusive hiring.
DIVERSITY IN HIRING AND PROMOTIONS
T o help inform and improve our recruitment and development policies and practices, we track our hiring, promotions, and talent 
retention rates, including for gender globally and for race and ethnicity in the US. The data shows that 48% of our global new hires in 
2020 were women, while 50% of all of our US new hires were racially or ethnically diverse. Further, 46% of all promoted colleagues 
globally were women and 50% of promoted colleagues in the US were racially or ethnically diverse. We also retained 94% of our women 
globally and 93% of racially or ethnically diverse colleagues in the United States.In 2020, we achieved 100% pay equity for colleagues 
across genders globally and across races and 
ethnicities in the United States. We are committed to 
maintaining this goal going forward.Maintaining Pay Equity   
9. US racially/ethnically diverse colleagues based on US EEO-1 categories including Black/African American, Hispanic/Latino, Asian, Native American or Alaskan 
Native, Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander, and two or more races.
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Operating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix Climate 
Solutions•   27 BACKING OUR COLLEAGUES
IDENTIFYING DIVERSE CANDIDATES AND SUPPORTING THEIR PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
We also collaborate with expert partners to identify diverse candidates who are a good fit for our company. After colleagues join us, 
we support them to grow professionally and thrive in their careers. We cultivate a welcoming environment where colleagues from all 
backgrounds and at all levels of the company feel that they belong, that their contributions are highly valued, and that they receive the 
support, recognition, and opportunities they deserve. We also partner with expert organizations to provide our high-performing colleagues 
from underrepresented groups with meaningful opportunities. Some examples include: 
 ·Everwise Mentorship Program by Torch: This six-month program matches high-performing diverse US colleagues with mentors 
who share their skills and knowledge in an open and safe learning environment. Regular feedback and assessments foster personal 
development and accountability. Through June 2021, more than 400 US colleagues have participated.
 ·Blue Circle Transformational Leadership Program: This nine-month virtual program is designed for multicultural women in mid-level 
management, focusing on the unique challenges they face in the workplace, through guest speakers and team projects. Through June 
2021, more than 200 colleagues have participated. 
 ·Mujeres de HACE Leadership Program: This women’s leadership program is geared to empower Latina professionals with high 
potential at manager level or above with professional development through individualized, culturally relevant curricula and mentoring. 
From 2019 through June 2021, 30 colleagues have participated. 
Supporting Women Leaders
More than half our global workforce, and four in ten (40.1%) executives and senior managers, are women. When women grow and thrive in 
their careers with us, our company thrives too. 
T o support and retain women colleagues, we provide customized learning and engagement opportunities delivered through internal 
training and outside expert programs. Through our Colleague Networks and global forums, we enable talented women to build stronger 
and more meaningful relationships across the company, which in turn drives their sponsorship, retention, and progression into leadership 
roles. One prominent example is our biannual Global Women’s Conference which brings together our most senior global leaders. 
In 2020, we launched the American Express Ambition Project, highlighting our leaders’ responsibility to provide women colleagues with the 
backing to declare, “I am ambitious. ” This initiative followed a survey by our Executive Committee that revealed only a third of our most senior 
women had ever publicly described themselves as ambitious. As a result, we introduced new programs to support women colleagues globally 
at all levels to own their ambition, including roundtable sessions with leaders and networking events. We also commissioned a global study 
on women’s relationships with ambition, in partnership with The New Y ork Women’s Foundation. In 2021, we reinforced our efforts to gain 
feedback from our women colleagues to better understand what they are experiencing and how we can respond. 
Backing Colleagues from Underrepresented Communities 
Following a series of tragic events affecting the US Black/African American community during 2020, we amplified our efforts to address 
issues related to race both within and beyond our company. This included the launch of “The Connection Project, ” an initiative to 
strengthen the bonds between our African American and Black colleagues and the company. In summer 2020, we conducted a survey 
and follow-up focus groups with African American and Black colleagues to learn more about their perspectives, how connected they felt to 
peers and leaders, and how we could deliver more moments that matter during their careers with us. 
10. Race/ethnicity based on self-identified information.
11. Eight percent of new colleague hires did not disclose their race or ethnicity in 2020.
12. We believe that company retention metrics in 2020 were particularly high partially due to impacts from the pandemic.  Women Globally  
(%/rate)Men Globally  
(%/rate)US Racially or  
Ethnically Diverse  
(%/rate)10US White  
(%/rate)10
New Colleague Hires 48% 52% 50%1142%11
Colleague Promotions 46% 54% 50% 50%
Colleague Retention1294% 93% 93% 94%2020 HIRING, PROMOTIONS, AND RETENTION RATES 
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Operating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix Climate 
SolutionsThe past year also presented increased challenges for several other underrepresented communities who experienced an abhorrent rise in 
violence and hate crimes. We stepped up our efforts to support colleagues within those communities.
We used heritage months and cultural moments as an opportunity to gain a deeper understanding of diverse cultures and learn how to 
better support one another. We welcomed a number of internal and external speakers to build awareness and make space for colleagues 
to have timely conversations on current events. 
All of these initiatives complement our ongoing efforts to drive a culture of inclusion and equip leaders and colleagues with the skills to do so.•   28 BACKING OUR COLLEAGUES
BACKING BIPOC- AND WOMEN-OWNED BUSINESSES
We are committed to supporting Black, Indigenous, and People of Color (BIPOC) business owners and women-owned 
firms by offering access to credit and loans, educational resources, and grants to help grow their business. Learn more 
about these programs and partnerships in Backing Our Customers, page 39. ·Conversations led by company and expert outside speakers 
focused on diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging
 ·Developing resources on how colleagues can make space to 
have open dialogues about race at work to maintain a culture 
where colleagues feel safe, respected, and valued
 ·Actively supporting 14 Colleague Networks that bring together 
people of similar backgrounds and experiences, including 
disability, ethnicity, faith, gender, gender identity, generations, 
sexual orientation, and veteran status, as well as allies ·Providing training and protocols for dealing with abusive Card 
Members
 ·Piloting the McKinsey Black Executive Leadership Program 
and McKinsey Management Accelerator to help build the 
leadership capabilities and peer networks of our Black and 
African American executives and leaders
 ·Continuing to build and expand our diversity partnerships to 
further engage across communities and access a diverse talent 
pipeline during our hiring processOther ways we’ve shown our support and commitment to colleagues included:
Championing LGBTQ+ Inclusion  
American Express has long been a champion of LGBTQ+ inclusion. Since 2004, we have scored 100% on the Human Rights Campaign’s 
(HRC) Corporate Equality Index based on our workplace policies and practices in this area. We are also members of Open for Business, 
a coalition of global companies making the business case for LGBTQ+ inclusion in the private sector, and Out Leadership, a network 
that includes more than 80 companies and their leaders. In June 2020, the U.S. Supreme Court issued a landmark ruling that extended 
workplace civil rights protections to LGBTQ+ individuals. American Express was among 200 companies that signed an amicus brief 
supporting these protections, which was backed by Out Leadership, HRC, and others.
In 2020, we launched Self-Identification (Self-ID), giving colleagues the opportunity to share with us their diversity data, including gender 
identity and sexual orientation. The voluntary initiative will provide valuable insights to inform our programs and resources for colleagues, 
our diversity strategies, and our efforts to meet our DE&I commitments. During the year, we also invited colleagues to voluntarily share 
their preferred pronouns in their corporate email signatures to visibly support each other in bringing their full selves to work. 
Supporting Disability Inclusion
We strive to provide an inclusive and accessible work environment—one where everyone, including colleagues, applicants and all those 
who work on behalf of American Express, are treated equally, with dignity and respect. For people with disabilities, we provide reasonable 
accommodations or adjustments to a job or work environment on a case-by-case basis.   
In 2020, we joined The Valuable 500 , a global movement advocating for private sector disability inclusion. We also renewed our 
partnership with Disability:IN, a nonprofit resource for business disability inclusion worldwide, using their research to develop colleague 
resources on disability etiquette and accessibility best practices.
In addition, we have built awareness and promoted education by inviting external experts to speak with our colleagues around the globe 
during key moments, such as International Day of People with Disabilities. We have also made assistive software, like Dragon speech 
recognition, more easily accessible to everyone, and in 2021, enabled closed captioning as a standard for all virtual livestream events to 
make broadcast content more accessible.
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Operating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix Climate 
Solutions•   29 BACKING OUR COLLEAGUES
Building Connections Through Colleague Networks 
We actively support 14 Colleague Networks that bring together people of similar backgrounds and 
experiences, including disability, ethnicity, faith, gender, gender identity, generations, sexual orientation, 
and veteran status, as well as allies. Colleagues create and lead the networks, which help develop diverse 
talent, broaden participants’ professional networks, and inform our culture of inclusion and belonging. 
Showcasing their importance to our company at every level, several networks have executive chapters 
with Executive Committee sponsors that promote networking and development for vice presidents and 
above. Eight countries have also established Inclusion and Diversity Councils charged with addressing 
local priorities. Over the past year, despite the pandemic, our networks and councils have raised 
awareness of DE&I issues and celebrated cultures around the world.  
With more than 100 chapters worldwide, our Colleague Networks include: 
  ·Asian Network at American Express 
(ANA)
 ·Black Engagement Network (BEN)
 ·Christian Network (SALT)
 ·Disability Awareness Network (DAN)
 ·Families at American Express Network ·Generations Network (GEN)
 ·Hispanic Origin & Latin-American 
Network (HOLA)
 ·Jewish Network (CHAI)
 ·Muslim Network (PEACE)
 ·Pride+ Network ·Veterans Network (VET)
 ·Virtual Office Network
 ·Women in T echnology Network (WIT)
 ·Women’s Interest Network (WIN)
ENGAGING COLLEAGUES ON DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION 
Education, training, and meaningful conversations among colleagues are helping us build and foster a culture of inclusion and belonging. 
In 2020, we added two required trainings—an online course for all colleagues on strengthening our culture of inclusion and a workshop for 
all people leaders on how to reinforce this culture. 
We also launched a new speaker series, open to all colleagues. T o date, more than 20 speakers, including historians, artists, organizational 
psychologists, and company leaders have shared their expertise and personal perspectives. 
In addition, colleagues have access to dozens of resources to help them lead inclusively, have insightful conversations, and make their 
voices heard. We see this as an ongoing journey and will continue to expand on these efforts.
Learn how we advance diversity, equity, and inclusion beyond our business in Backing Our Communities, page 45.
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Operating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix Climate 
Solutions•   30 BACKING OUR COLLEAGUES
We want our colleagues and their loved ones to be and feel at their best. Through our award-winning 
health and mental well-being program, Healthy Living and Healthy Minds, we provide holistic benefits and 
maintain company policies that promote wellness. From the healthcare we provide through our on-site 
Wellness Centers, to one-on-one coaching and counseling, we look for ways to help our colleagues and 
their families stay safe and enjoy healthy lifestyles. During the global pandemic, our ongoing programs 
and new initiatives helped colleagues stay engaged and healthy while working at home. As we look ahead 
to returning to our offices in locations where conditions have improved, we will continue to back our 
colleagues with programs and benefits designed to maintain their safety and promote good health.
Backing Our Colleagues During COVID-19 and  
Returning to the Office Safely 
Since the beginning of the global health crisis, we pivoted quickly to provide the flexibility, resources, and support colleagues needed to 
stay safe, healthy, and productive. We introduced a range of offerings delivered virtually, including personal counseling, pharmacist and 
dietitian appointments, wellness coaching, meditation classes, and exercise programs to help colleagues cope with the unprecedented 
challenges and stress brought about by the pandemic. For colleagues enrolled in our US medical plans, we provided coverage for all out-of-
pocket medical and pharmacy costs related to COVID-19 testing and treatment. 
T o provide colleagues with flexibility to obtain the COVID-19 vaccine, we provided up to eight hours of paid time off. We also partnered with 
departments of health and hospitals in the US and India to host on-site vaccine clinics for our colleagues, families, and contractors, and 
we provided a number of oxygen concentrators free of charge to colleagues and their dependents in India who had been prescribed the 
equipment to deal with health issues associated with COVID-19. 
In June 2021, we announced plans for our future hybrid working model that we currently plan to implement when the health crisis subsides. 
In planning our new model, we carefully considered many factors, including colleague feedback, the needs of our customers and business, 
the collaborative culture we want to preserve, and the lessons we learned during the pandemic. We believe that our best way forward, when 
the time is right, is to strike a balance between working in the office some days each week, while giving colleagues a choice of where they 
work the other days. The intent is to leverage the best of both worlds—combining the unique energy and community of our in-person culture 
with the agility and flexibility we have established working virtually throughout the pandemic. We will ease colleagues into our new way of 
working, listen to feedback, and adjust as necessary to meet the needs of our colleagues, our customers, and our business.
Because local conditions vary widely, transitioning to the new hybrid model will take on a different timetable depending on the location. 
For the time being, the majority of our colleagues will continue working from home if they choose to do so. T oday, 40 of our locations 
around the world are open on a limited basis for those who choose to come in or who cannot do their jobs effectively from home, and we 
plan to continue to open office locations on a limited basis based on local guidelines and public health data.
Supporting Healthy Living 
The best way to back our customers is to back our colleagues. That is why we take a holistic approach to well-being, providing resources 
that address the physical, financial, and mental health of our colleagues and their loved ones. With colleagues isolated due to virtual 
working, we hosted hundreds of well-being webinars, bringing in experts on topics such as ergonomics, nutrition, managing stress, and 
caregiving. Our Healthy Living team delivered regular livestreamed workout sessions, posting workout plans and recordings, and wellness 
coaches introduced an ongoing Happiness Program and Virtual 5K Challenge.  
Maintaining mental health has been a huge societal challenge during the pandemic. T o support our colleagues’ mental well-being, we 
introduced an online virtual meditation program and free membership to a mindfulness app. Through our Healthy Minds program, we 
introduced a grief and loss support initiative, providing US colleagues with one-to-one counseling from licensed therapists.  
2020 HEALTHY LIVING HIGHLIGHTS  
 ·100% of our colleagues had access to at least one Healthy Living program or service
 ·740+ well-being and exercise sessions attracted 17 ,900 viewsPUTTING COLLEAGUE HEALTH, SAFETY, 
AND WELL-BEING FIRST 
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Operating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix Climate 
Solutions•   31 BACKING OUR COLLEAGUES
In 2020, many of our colleagues took on new and unexpected caregiving duties. T o support them, we introduced free access to Bright 
Horizons World at Home to help keep children engaged and learning with interactive videos on yoga, mindfulness, STEM, cooking, and 
much more. We also offered colleagues a free trial of BumoBrain Virtual Learning program and discounts on live online classes covering 
60+ topics to encourage youngsters’ creativity, critical thinking, and hands-on learning. 
Helping Colleagues Build Financial Confidence 
Our ESG focus on building financial confidence applies to colleagues as well as customers  
and communities. 
We offer global Smart Saving programs that provide financial education and resources to colleagues at 
key stages of life. Examples include programs for recent graduates entering the workforce, new parents, 
and colleagues planning to send their children to college. In the US, Smart Saving includes our 401(k) 
program, financial planning coaching and workshops, retirement webinars, offers to help colleagues 
save money on everyday expenses, and on-demand access to financial education resources. During the 
pandemic, we added additional financial education sessions to help colleagues deal with the volatility 
of the financial markets. In 2020, we also offered US colleagues a student loan debt promotion for the 
second consecutive year. 
Retirement funds are a great way to build financial confidence for the future. For US colleagues, we match 100% of 401(k) contributions up 
to 6% of total pay after six months of service, and all matching contributions are immediately vested. In 2020, 93% of US colleagues took 
advantage of the plan, up from 92% in 2019. New hires are automatically enrolled at 3% of total pay. In 2020, we also provided profit-sharing 
contributions of 2% of total pay for all eligible colleagues. For 2021, we will replace the discretionary profit-sharing contribution, providing an 
annual fixed rate contribution of 3% of total pay for our lower band level colleagues and 2% for our higher band level colleagues. 
Supporting Colleagues with Caregiving Responsibilities 
Many colleagues balance responsibilities as parents, caregivers, and family members with their commitment to one another and to our 
customers. While our working parents and caregivers are backing everyone else, we are here to back them and their loved ones with 
benefits and support programs, including:
 ·Gender-neutral parental leave: Eligible US colleagues can take up to 20 weeks parental leave, with full base pay, whether they are 
welcoming a new child through pregnancy, adoption, or surrogacy. We provide birth mothers with six to eight additional weeks of paid 
leave if medically necessary.
 ·Financial assistance for family planning: We offer reimbursement for US colleagues who use adoption, surrogacy, or egg/sperm 
donors to cover expenses up to $35,000 per child for up to two events. Those who undergo reproductive treatments are eligible for up 
to $35,000 in medical assistance.
 ·Backup childcare: Colleagues in the US, UK, and Canada can access in-home or center-based childcare when their regular 
arrangements fall through.
 ·Backup eldercare: US, UK, and Canada colleagues can access 24/7 consultants for help arranging in-home care for an adult loved one 
recovering from an illness or injury. 
 ·Families at American Express Colleague Network: Active since 2005, this network supports members across eight chapters who 
need help balancing personal and professional priorities.
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Operating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix Climate 
Solutions•   32 BACKING OUR COLLEAGUES
SUPPORTING OUR COMMUNITIES
We also provide personal growth opportunities for our colleagues to engage in philanthropic and volunteer activities where they live 
and work. Our flagship programs—Serve2Gether, Give2Gether, and Green2Gether—foster a sense of shared purpose. Learn more in 
Backing Our Communities, page 45. Our colleagues are also passionate about the environment and play a critical role in our sustainability 
initiatives. Learn more in Advancing Climate Solutions, page 54.
Promoting Leadership 
Our in-house leadership program provides colleagues globally with tools and support to gain new experiences, skills, and capabilities to 
thrive in their careers. of professional and 
personal development 
trainings and programs 
offeredThousands
LinkedIn Learning videos completed  
by colleagues90,000+
of professional 
or personal 
development 
training received 
by colleagues on 
average~20 hours
2020 HIGHLIGHTS
 ·The American Express & Harvard Certificate in Leadership Excellence program has been completed by  
more than 16,500 managers, directors, and vice presidents since 2017 .  In 2021, the program is also targeting  
our analysts and team leaders.
 ·The Accelerated Leadership Development program develops high-potential and high-performing vice  
presidents; 40 colleagues graduated in 2020 and 264 have done so since 2011.
 ·The New People Leader Program is designed for first-time managers up to the director level and has been completed by more 
than 2,450 colleagues since 2018.
 ·Leadership Labs are enterprise-wide learning forums designed to teach colleagues specific behaviors that drive successful 
leadership. In 2020, more than 14,800 people attended the live sessions and more than 2,700 accessed the replays.We invest in professional development for our colleagues, including tools and guidance for maximizing learning on the job and 
assignments across country borders and business units. All colleagues take part in our performance management process, which includes 
defined performance, career, and development conversations as well as year-round check-ins with their managers. We also offer career 
coaching, mentoring, professional networking, rotation opportunities, and both asynchronous and classroom instruction.
Our Colleague Experience Group designs and delivers a wide range of innovative learning experiences that build new skills. In addition to 
our internal curriculum, in 2021, we introduced LinkedIn Learning, providing quick and easy access to thousands of online courses and 
videos in seven languages on topics including, leadership, business skills, technology, and personal development. All colleagues globally 
can use the platform to grow in their current role, prepare for their next career move, and develop their skills and talents.FOSTERING PERSONAL AND 
PROFESSIONAL GROWTH 
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Operating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix Climate 
SolutionsFOR MORE THAN 170 YEARS, WE HAVE WORKED TO 
MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN OUR CUSTOMERS’ LIVES. 
We back our customers in a variety of ways. We invest in programs and tools to help customers 
build financial confidence and resiliency, follow policies that protect customer privacy and allow 
them to control their preferences, and employ controls to prevent fraud and maintain secure 
payments. We also have our customers’ backs during difficult times. Since the beginning of the 
pandemic, we have helped our customers navigate the challenges they faced in many ways. In 
spring 2020, we enhanced and expanded our Financial Relief Program to help those struggling 
with the financial fallout of COVID-19. We also made a number of enhancements to our products 
and services to meet our customers’ evolving needs, including working with merchants to roll out 
contactless and other forms of no-touch payments and adding limited time offers and statement 
credits in categories relevant in the current environment, such as wireless, streaming services, 
business essentials, and food delivery.BACKING OUR  
CUSTOMERS
SETTING THE STANDARD FOR CUSTOMER CARE 36
BUILDING FINANCIAL CONFIDENCE  37 
INNOVATING FOR OUR CUSTOMERS 42
PROTECTING OUR CUSTOMERS 43
•   34 BACKING OUR CUSTOMERS
Our new ESG pillars bring together our efforts to promote diversity, equity, and inclusion, strengthen the financial resiliency of individuals 
and small businesses, and enable our customers’ efforts to transition to a low-carbon future (see box below).BACKING OUR CUSTOMERS 
1. Based on spend as reported by consumers in surveys commissioned by American Express (not actual receipts or sales).OBJECTIVES GOALSHow Our ESG Strategy Connects to Customers 
Promote Diversity,  
Equity, and Inclusion: 
Meet the needs of underrepresented 
businesses and consumers  
and develop more inclusive  
marketing initiatives.
Advance Climate Solutions: 
Enable our customers and partners to 
transition to a low-carbon economy  
through the development of new 
capabilitiesBuild Financial Confidence: 
· Strengthen the financial security and 
money management capacity of small 
businesses through products, services, 
campaigns, and initiatives·  Empower individuals to build and maintain 
their financial well-being through products, 
services, tools, and education while 
providing robust account security  ·Provide access to capital and financial education to at 
least 250,000 Black- and minority-owned small and 
medium-sized businesses in the US from late 2020 
through 2024
 ·Develop more inclusive marketing initiatives as well as 
design and build product experiences and programs 
that better meet the needs of underrepresented 
consumer and business customers
 ·Provide at least 5 million individuals with tools, 
resources, and educational content to improve 
financial well-being from 2021 through 2025 ·Provide access to credit to at least 4 million 
individuals from underserved or underrepresented 
populations from 2021 through 2025
 ·Support small businesses, including by reaching 
$100 billion in spending by consumers at small, 
independently-owned retailers or restaurants on 
Small Business Saturday and during other Shop 
Small campaigns from 2021 through 20251
 ·Pilot low-carbon product innovations, including 
carbon tracking and offset solutions, by the end 
of 2022
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Colleagues Operating 
ResponsiblyAppendix Climate 
Solutions•   35 BACKING OUR CUSTOMERS
 · Created a Customer Pandemic Relief Program providing short-term financial 
assistance, and enhanced and expanded our longer-term Financial Relief 
Program to support customers in need in more than 20 countries  
 ·Held our largest-ever global Shop Small campaign in 2020 with a more than 
$200 million commitment to help jumpstart spending at small businesses 
that were hard hit by the pandemic through Card Member offers and related 
marketing efforts
 ·Reported $19.8 billion in estimated spending by US consumers at independent 
retailers and restaurants on last year’s Small Business Saturday2 
 ·Committed an additional $100 million to our “Let’s Go Shop Small” campaign 
launched in summer 2021 to inspire consumers to support small businesses 
in select countries globally through Card Member offers and related  
marketing efforts
 ·Pledged $40 million to the Accion Opportunity Fund to provide loans and 
other resources for historically underfunded small businesses in the US, 
including those owned by women and underrepresented groups
 ·Provided $2.5 million in funding to the “100 for 100” program in partnership 
with IFundWomen of Color to provide 100 Black women entrepreneurs each 
with grants of $25,000 and 100 days of business resources
 ·Committed $10 million to support Black-owned small businesses over the 
next four years through the Coalition to Back Black Businesses we formed 
with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Foundation that brings together four 
national Black Chambers
 ·Partnered with the US Black Chambers, Inc. to launch an expanded ByBlack 
platform—the only national certification program that exclusively verifies 
businesses as majority-owned by Black individuals
 ·Released MyCredit Guide on our mobile app in the US and launched Score 
Goals, a new tool to help US consumers improve their credit score
 ·Launched a five-part sponsored docuseries to empower consumers with 
relevant and easy-to-digest financial information
 ·Maintained the lowest US fraud rate among the major card networks 
 ·Enabled merchants to roll out contactless and other forms of no-touch 
payments during the pandemic
 ·Enhanced our value propositions on many of our card products, including 
adjusting our rewards programs and adding limited time offers and statement 
credits in categories that are relevant in the current environment, such as 
wireless, streaming services, business essentials, and food delivery
2020-2021 Highlights   
BACKING  
CUSTOMERS 
THROUGH 
COVID-19
SUPPORTING SMALL BUSINESSES
SUPPORTING BLACK- AND WOMEN-
OWNED BUSINESSES
EMPOWERING CONSUMERS
PROTECTING OUR CUSTOMERS
INNOVATING 
FOR OUR 
CUSTOMERS
2. The American Express 2020 Small Business Saturday Consumer Insights Survey was conducted by T eneo on behalf of American Express and the National 
Federation of Independent Business (NFIB). The study is a nationally representative sample of 2,572 US adults 18 years of age or older. The sample was collected 
using an email invitation and an online survey. The study gathered self-reported data and does not reflect actual receipts or sales. It was conducted anonymously 
on November 29, 2020. The survey has an overall margin of error of +/- 2.0%, at the 95% level of confidence. Projections are based on the current U.S. Census 
estimates of the US adult population, aged 18 years or older.Our Focus Areas What We Accomplished
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Colleagues Operating 
ResponsiblyAppendix Climate 
Solutions•   36 BACKING OUR CUSTOMERS
We aim to provide the world’s best customer experience every day. Across our global organization, colleagues work to recognize and value 
each of our customers—seeking to protect their privacy, keep their accounts secure, provide differentiated products and services, and 
deliver personalized experiences.
WHO WE SERVE
 ·CONSUMERS: We offer a range of credit cards, charge cards, and other financial services that make it easier for consumers to pay 
for their purchases, get rewarded for their loyalty and have peace of mind when they buy or travel.
 ·BUSINESSES: We serve businesses of all sizes from small independently owned establishments to large global organizations 
through a range of payment and cash flow offerings.
 ·MERCHANTS: Millions of stores, restaurants, and other establishments around the world welcome American Express Cards. We work 
to make sure their experience is as seamless as possible and help grow their businesses by connecting them to our high-spending 
Card Members and providing marketing and other services.
HOW WE SERVE
We have a service network of professionals around the globe, dedicated to meeting our evolving customer needs. This includes 
approximately 26,000 colleague and contractor Customer Care Professionals and 7 ,000 T ravel Counselors who connect with our 
customers directly, as well as colleagues and partners who work in service support areas such as digital tools, learning, capabilities, 
fulfillment, and analytics. 
Backing Our Customers During COVID-19 
The COVID-19 pandemic has been financially disruptive for countless businesses and individuals 
across the world. We continue to work with consumer, small business, and corporate customers who 
need additional assistance during this turbulent time. In each case, we strive to provide the right 
support and financial relief to help them stay in control of their finances. 
We offer our Card Members relief programs with payment flexibility options. For example, last year  
we created a Customer Pandemic Relief Program providing short-term support for customers 
impacted by COVID-19, and enhanced and expanded our Financial Relief Program to provide 
assistance to customers in more than 20 countries. Measures include temporarily lowering monthly 
payments and interest rates while allowing Card Members to retain their membership. We also 
adjusted policies to help our merchant partners support their own customers, including raising 
contactless transaction thresholds to reduce physical contact at the point of sale. We also reminded 
merchants globally that we do not require them to collect Card Members’ signatures. SETTING THE STANDARD FOR 
CUSTOMER CARE 
Thank you for helping us through this pandemic. Y our help and support are helping us to keep our business afloat. After 
being around for 18 years, we are not going to let a virus take us out. Thanks again. ”  
— US Small Business Card Member 
I have been affected by COVID and haven’t been able 
to work. Y our representative was kind and explained my 
options. I slept better that night than I had in a while. ”  
— Consumer Card Member in IndiaY our team had empathy for what our family was going 
through. Y ou did not act like a company that only values 
money—you acted like a company that values your 
customers. Thank you. ”  
— US Consumer Card Member
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Colleagues Operating 
ResponsiblyAppendix Climate 
Solutions•   37 BACKING OUR CUSTOMERS
Strengthening Small Businesses 
Small businesses help communities thrive by bringing jobs, services, and character to neighborhoods. They are a significant part of our 
global customer base and we are committed to backing their success by strengthening their financial security and management capacity. 
In addition to our business products and services, we offer small business owners a wide range of resources, including online tools, 
training, and educational programs. We also incentivize our customers to support small businesses through initiatives such as Shop Small, 
a campaign that evolved into a global, year-round movement to help drive spending to small independent businesses.  
 
THE SHOP SMALL MOVEMENT 
 
Shop Small supports small, independent businesses and calls attention to the valuable and distinct contributions they make to their 
communities and the economy. The Shop Small movement builds on the success of Small Business Saturday, a campaign we launched 
in 2010 to help meet small business owners’ pressing need for more customers. Through this annual campaign, we encourage millions of 
people to Shop Small and champion their favorite local small businesses. 
The 11th annual Small Business Saturday was held on November 28, 2020, in communities across the United States. On that day, US 
consumers spent an estimated $19.8 billion at independent retailers and restaurants, according to the American Express 2020 Small 
Business Saturday Consumer Insights Survey.3 More consumers also turned to virtual shopping on Small Business Saturday, with 56% 
reporting that they shopped online with a small business on that day, up from 43% in 2019.  
Shop Small is now a global, year-round movement. In 2020, we supported small businesses around the world with a more than $200 
million commitment to help jumpstart spending at small businesses as part of our largest-ever global Shop Small campaign. This included 
a Card Member offer and associated marketing campaign to encourage American Express Card Members in select countries around the 
globe to Shop Small in their local communities and online.
Customer Service Award Highlights
People’s Choice 
Award for Customer 
Satisfaction Credit 
Cards category 
(Australia)Moneyfacts Consumer 
Awards 2020—Credit 
Card Provider of the 
Y ear (UK)in J.D. Power 2020 Japan Credit Card 
Satisfaction Study—Annual Membership 
Fee of 20,000 Y en or More categoryRanked #3
in J.D. Power 2020 
U.S. Credit Card 
Satisfaction StudyRanked #1
Canstar’s 2020  
Most Satisfied 
Customers—Rewards 
Credit Card  
Provider Award#2 in J.D. Power 
2020 Australia 
Credit Card 
Satisfaction Studyin J.D. Power 2020 
Canada Credit Card 
Satisfaction StudyRanked #2
Building our customers’ financial confidence is at the heart of our ESG strategy. Our ambition is to provide responsible, secure, and 
transparent products, services, and programs that can help people and businesses build financial resilience. Below, we describe our 
approach to strengthening small businesses and empowering consumers along with highlights from 2020-2021. In 2020, we received recognition for our service ethos and commitment to customers from prominent rating organizations around the 
world, including:
3. The American Express 2020 Small Business Saturday Consumer Insights Survey was conducted by T eneo on behalf of American Express and the National 
Federation of Independent Business (NFIB). The study is a nationally representative sample of 2,572 US adults 18 years of age or older. The sample was collected 
using an email invitation and an online survey. The study gathered self-reported data and does not reflect actual receipts or sales. It was conducted anonymously 
on November 29, 2020. The survey has an overall margin of error of +/- 2.0%, at the 95% level of confidence. Projections are based on the current U.S. Census 
estimates of the US adult population, aged 18 years and over.BUILDING FINANCIAL CONFIDENCE
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Colleagues Operating 
ResponsiblyAppendix Climate 
Solutions•   38 BACKING OUR CUSTOMERS
2020 Shop Small Highlights Around the World
·  United States: US consumers spent an estimated $19.8 billion at independent retailers and restaurants on 
Small Business Saturday and 85% of Small Business Saturday shoppers also reported that they encouraged 
friends and family to Shop Small on that day.4 
·  Australia: Held its eighth Shop Small campaign, with our Card Members contributing more than AUD$6 
billion to small businesses between 2013 and 2020 during Shop Small campaign periods. American Express 
has given AUD$24 million back to Card Members through Shop Small offers over this time frame.
·  Canada: Saw approximately 85,000 Canadian Card Members redeem Shop Small offers at approximately 
64,000 merchants with approximately CAD$40 million in spend. 
·  Japan: Attracted approximately 100,000 small businesses to join Shop Small in its fourth year. We provided 
discounts at participating businesses as well as social distancing and sanitization tool kits to help small 
business owners welcome their customers safely. 
·  Mexico: Card Members redeemed Shop Small offers at approximately 22,000 merchants during our second 
Shop Small event. Merchants received an average of four Shop Small-related purchases and approximately 
1,800 small businesses had their first transaction with an American Express Card Member since the pandemic 
lockdowns started.
·  UK: Reported an estimated £1.1 billion in spending on December 5, 2020.5 As a founding sponsor, American 
Express has championed the event since 2013. In summer 2021, we also encouraged our customers to 
support small businesses reopening after lockdown. 
4. The American Express 2020 Small Business Saturday Consumer Insights Survey was conducted by T eneo on behalf of American Express and the National 
Federation of Independent Business (NFIB). The study is a nationally representative sample of 2,572 US adults 18 years of age or older. The sample was collected 
using an email invitation and an online survey. The study gathered self-reported data and does not reflect actual receipts or sales. It was conducted anonymously 
on November 29, 2020. The survey has an overall margin of error of +/- 2.0%, at the 95% level of confidence. Projections are based on the current U.S. Census 
estimates of the US adult population, aged 18 years and over.
5. Estimates are based on data collected from 3,701 UK adults polled by T oluna between 5pm on Saturday 5 December 2020 and 11am on Monday 7 December 2020. 
A £1.1 billion figure for national spending calculated using ONS estimation of the UK adult population.
6. The American Express Independent Restaurant Insight Study was conducted by T eneo on behalf of American Express. Consumer data is based on a survey of 1,004 
Americans who visited a restaurant 2+ times a month before the COVID-19 pandemic. The anonymous survey was conducted online January 11-16, 2021. Data was 
weighted to reflect the demographic composition of the 18+ population of the US based upon gender, age, education, race, and region. Restaurant owner data is 
based on an online study conducted among a sample of 500 respondents who are owners/managers/directors/CEO/etc. of an independently owned restaurant 
with fewer than 50 employees across all locations. The anonymous survey was conducted online January 8-18, 2021.
7 . Estimate is based on average takeout sales as reported by restaurant owners surveyed and the total number of small restaurants in the US as reported by the 
Bureau of Labor Statistics and the National Restaurant Association.Backing Restaurants with Order In, Help Out
T o support independent restaurants when they needed it most, American Express and Resy launched a US campaign 
in 2021 with a simple message: Order In, Help Out. T ogether, we rallied consumers across social media to make 
#T akeoutT uesday a weekly event. T o encourage our Card Members to order in, we introduced new dining offers 
on many of our cards. According to the American Express Independent Restaurant Insight Study, 89% of small, 
independent restaurant owners say they depended on takeout orders to stay afloat.6 The study also estimated that ordering 
takeout can generate, on average, more than $700 million in daily sales for the industry.7
Learn how we are also backing historic small restaurants in partnership with the National T rust for Historic Preservation in the 
Community section (page 48).
HELPING SMALL AND MID-SIZED BUSINESSES THRIVE
Small and mid-size firms often lack the personnel and resources to pursue business growth opportunities or gain new skills and expertise. 
Our Business Advocacy programs help by providing entrepreneurs with educational resources, networks, and mentorship they can 
use to identify and take advantage of growth opportunities. Over the past 18 months, we have also focused our advocacy efforts on 
understanding the pandemic’s impact on small and mid-size firms and how they can adapt and recover. Highlights from our activities in 
2020 through mid-2021 are shown below.  
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Colleagues Operating 
ResponsiblyAppendix Climate 
Solutions•   39 BACKING OUR CUSTOMERS
In October 2020, we acquired substantially all of Kabbage, a leading cash-flow management platform for US small businesses, continuing 
our expansion of digital capabilities and products that go beyond the card. Using Kabbage’s automated technology and real-time data 
processing, we plan to offer small business customers a broader set of cash-flow management tools. 
2020-2021 Business Advocacy Highlights
 ·Created Business Class, a suite of educational resources in the form of digital content and events that offers 
entrepreneurs essential insights on topics including leadership, marketing, sales, and cash flow. As of May 2021, 
we have created over 400 new resources for business owners, including articles, e-newsletters and episodes of 
“Office Hours” on Instagram Live and podcast sites, such as Apple Podcasts and Spotify. 
 ·Hosted free virtual Business Class LIVE events in fall 2020 and spring 2021 where small business owners learned 
from entrepreneurs and connected with leading thinkers and business executives. 
 ·Published findings from our 2020 Entrepreneurial Spirit Trendex survey on the pandemic’s impact on US 
small- and mid-sized business owners, their optimism about recovery, and how businesses can adapt to meet 
consumers’ shifting priorities. 
 ·Launched the Kabbage Small Business Recovery Report in March 2021, measuring the pandemic’s impact by 
tracking key small business performance metrics including headcount, total revenue, profit, and online strategies 
as well as future outlooks through 2022. 
 ·Published a new Backing Change landing page to help minority-owned firms access resources and financing to 
grow their businesses.
Partnering to Support BIPOC- and Women-Owned Businesses 
American Express is committed to supporting Black, Indigenous and People of Color (BIPOC) business owners and women-owned firms 
by offering access to credit and loans, educational resources, and grants to help grow their business. Our ESG strategy commitments 
to Promote Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, announced in 2020, include providing access to capital and financial education to at least 
250,000 Black- and minority-owned small- and medium-sized US businesses by 2024. Partnering with organizations is a key part of our 
strategy to meet this goal including:  
INVESTMENT WITH THE 
ACCION OPPORTUNITY 
FUNDWe pledged $40 million to help the Accion Opportunity Fund expand its loan program for 
historically underfunded small businesses in the US, including those owned by women and 
underrepresented groups. Our investment is the largest received by the nonprofit Community 
Development Financial Institution small business lender to date. Accion estimates that our 
support will help yield more than $125 million in loans for small businesses and help create or 
retain more than 10,000 jobs over the next five years.
“100 FOR 100” GRANTS 
FOR BLACK WOMEN 
ENTREPRENEURS WITH 
IFUNDWOMEN OF COLORWe committed $2.5 million to our new “100 for 100” Program, investing in the future of US 
Black women entrepreneurs. Through IFundWomen of Color, we provided 100 business owners 
each with $25,000 grants and 100 days of resources including mentoring, marketing, and 
virtual networking to strengthen their business skills.
SUPPORTING BIPOC-
OWNED BUSINESSES 
ACROSS CANADAWe launched Blueprint: Backing BIPOC Businesses™, powered by the DMZ, a mentorship and 
grant program designed to support the advancement of BIPOC business owners across Canada. 
As part of Blueprint, 100 BIPOC business owners across Canada will take part in a comprehensive 
mentorship program, made possible by a grant from the American Express Foundation, 
designed to provide the tools, resources, and community to help them thrive. Additionally, we 
are contributing $1 million in grants that will be dispersed between the 100 mentorship program 
participants to help fuel the growth of their businesses.  
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Colleagues Operating 
ResponsiblyAppendix Climate 
Solutions•   40 BACKING OUR CUSTOMERS
ChallengeHER Impacts
For eight years, we’ve partnered with Women Impacting Public Policy and the U.S. Small Business Administration to help boost the 
prospects of women entrepreneurs to gain government contracts. Our ChallengeHER program offers free training webinars, workshops, 
mentoring, and direct access to government buyers and local partner resources. Outcomes since 2013 include the following shown below. 
Empowering Consumers
Building financial confidence opens doors for people to enrich their lives. We are committed to empowering individuals to build and 
maintain their financial well-being through products, services, tools, and education, while providing robust account security. In fall 
2021, we announced two new goals: to provide access to credit to at least 4 million individuals from underserved or underrepresented 
populations by the end of 2025, and provide at least 5 million individuals with tools, resources, and educational content to improve 
financial well-being by the end of 2025.
We have a long track record of providing our customers with financial education resources and partnering with others to connect 
consumers to financial literacy programs. These efforts seek to address the financial needs of young people, first-time credit users, and 
experienced credit users who want to improve their financial management skills.   
 
HELPING PEOPLE MANAGE THEIR FINANCES WITH CREDIT INTEL
Our US-based Credit Intel Financial Education Center provides resources and insights on how to manage and make the most of personal 
finances. T opics cover:
 ·Credit: building credit, understanding credit reports 
 ·Cards: understanding different types of credit cards, features, and benefits 
 ·Credit Score: learning how credit scores work and how to improve them 
 ·Money: budgeting and maximizing financial resources
In 2020, the site attracted 1.1 million unique users. Learn more at the American Express Credit Intel website .women entrepreneurs attended 
ChallengeHER workshops24,500
workshops75
webinars158THE COALITION TO BACK 
BLACK BUSINESSES We established a new Coalition to Back Black Businesses with a $10 million commitment over 
four years, in partnership with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Foundation and four national 
Black chambers—the National Black Chamber of Commerce, National Business League, U.S. 
Black Chambers, Inc. and Walker’s Legacy. In its first year, the Coalition partners distributed 
600 grants to Black-owned small businesses located in 33 states. The initial funds supported 
a wide range of critical business needs including paying employees, repaying debts, covering 
rent and utility bills, developing e-commerce capabilities, fund PPE purchases and expanding 
or pivoting business models. In 2021, we awarded 25 of the 600 Black-owned small businesses 
who received grants in 2020 additional grants of $25,000 each to support their long-term 
success and resilience.
LAUNCHING THE FIRST 
NATIONAL CERTIFICATION 
PROGRAM FOR BLACK-
OWNED BUSINESSES  American Express and the U.S. Black Chambers, Inc. are working together to expand ByBlack 
with the launch of the first national certification program exclusively for Black-owned 
businesses. First created as an extensive directory of Black-owned businesses, the no-cost, 
digital platform will now unlock more ways to reach new customers and secure contracts 
for Black-owned businesses across the country. ByBlack provides businesses an approved 
accreditation trusted by customers and enables consumers and other companies to easily find 
US-based, Black-owned businesses.
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Colleagues Operating 
ResponsiblyAppendix Climate 
Solutions•   41 BACKING OUR CUSTOMERS
Supporting Consumers with Free Credit Tools and 
Educational Materials 
We offer many resources to help consumers maintain healthy finances by staying on top of 
their credit use and credit score. 
MyCredit Guide , our credit score and report product, is available for free on the American Express website, including for non-customers. 
Enrolled users have access to their VantageScore® 3.0 credit score, refreshed weekly upon login, in addition to:
 ·A detailed T ransUnion personal credit report
 ·A credit score simulator to see how actions like paying down debt or opening a new account could affect their score  
 ·Instant email alerts when there is any change to their credit report
In 2020, we launched MyCredit Guide on the American Express mobile app in the US. As of July 2021, MyCredit Guide had more than 3.3 
million enrolled users. We also launched “Score Goals” in August 2020, a new capability on MyCredit Guide to help US consumers improve 
their VantageScore® 3.0 credit score. Our tool uses T ransUnion credit report data tracked in real time to deliver recommendations for 
consumers on how to achieve their credit score goal.
New Series Helps Consumers Build a Stronger Financial 
Future Post-Pandemic
T ogether with T ransUnion, VantageScore Solutions, and CNN’s Courageous Studios, we launched a five-part branded 
content series in 2020 titled “The Game Plan: Building a Stronger Financial Future. ” 
Each episode connected real people with financial experts to help them create a “game plan” for future financial 
success. Former professional football player and business owner Dhani Jones hosted the series, part of a broader 
consumer campaign to provide actionable insights on how to navigate crises such as the pandemic. T opics included 
diagnosing your financial health, understanding your credit score, managing financial stress, paying off debt,  
investing for growth, and building a career in disruptive times.
Empowering Consumers: By the Numbers
total users enrolled in 
MyCredit Guide 3.3 million+
impressions for the financial health 
docuseries “The Game Plan” 30 million+
PROMOTING FINANCIAL INCLUSION THROUGH OUR PRODUCTS
We serve a wide range of customers and invest in designing products and services that can meet their evolving needs and preferences. For 
example, we issue two reloadable prepaid products, Bluebird® and Serve®, with InComm as the program manager and processor. These 
cards allow US customers who may lack access to traditional banking to set up paycheck deposits, access bills online, save for the future, 
send money to friends and family, and use tools to manage their finances.
Moving forward, we plan to expand our efforts in this area as we seek to achieve our new goal to provide access to credit to at least 4 
million individuals from underserved or underrepresented populations from 2021 through 2025.
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Colleagues Operating 
ResponsiblyAppendix Climate 
Solutions•   42 BACKING OUR CUSTOMERS
Connecting Card Members to Causes They Care About
Our innovations to help customers enrich their lives go beyond business applications. For example, our JustGiving 
program (formerly known as Members Give) simplifies charitable giving for our US Card Members. By signing up, 
they can access thousands of charities online, making donations on their American Express Cards or by redeeming 
Membership Rewards® points. In this way, US Card Members donated more than $101 million to benefit charitable 
causes from 2010 to 2020.  
Our company’s success is built on innovation. We continue to create new ways to deliver an exceptional experience for customers, 
whenever and wherever they need it. From new mobile app features to expanding our personalized services, we strive to build meaningful 
commerce experiences for our customers.INNOVATING FOR OUR CUSTOMERS
2020 Innovation Highlights
 ·During the pandemic, we worked closely with merchants to roll out contactless and 
other forms of touch-free payments to help reduce contact at the point of sale. 
For example, we helped certain merchants program their payment terminals to no 
longer request a signature, which reduces the use of a shared stylus, pen, or finger 
on a touchscreen. In addition, we worked with merchants to set up ways for their 
customers to pre-pay online, by app, or by phone.
 ·T o make it easy and quick for our eligible US Consumer and Small Business Card 
Members to apply for financial assistance during the pandemic, we introduced 
digital self-enrollment for our Financial Relief Program. 
 ·T o help our business customers meet cash flow management needs, we embedded 
Pay Over Time in applicable small business cards in the US, including Business 
Platinum, Business Gold, and Business Green, starting in their November 2020 
billing cycle. This provides business owners the flexibility to carry a balance with 
interest or pay their balance in full.
 ·We also made it possible for eligible US Consumer Card Members to send money 
to any other PayPal or Venmo customer from within the American Express® App, 
without the standard PayPal or Venmo credit card fee.8 Card Members can also split 
their purchases with PayPal and Venmo customers and get paid back directly to 
their Card (enrollment required and terms apply). 
 ·We expanded our Carbon Footprint Dashboard, making it available to certain 
commercial clients so that they are able to track emissions data associated 
with their air travel and better understand travel behaviors so they can find 
opportunities to reduce emissions. CONTACTLESS 
AND TOUCH-FREE 
PAYMENTS 
FINANCIAL RELIEF PROGRAM 
DIGITAL ENROLLMENT
PAYMENT FLEXIBILITY  
AND FUNCTIONALITY
SEND AND SPLIT™
CARBON FOOTPRINT
DASHBOARD
8. PayPal charges a fee to send to non-US recipients. The charge on your American Express Card for transactions that add money to your Amex Send account is 
subject to terms that apply to Card charges, including the Card’s purchase APR.
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Colleagues Operating 
ResponsiblyAppendix Climate 
Solutions•   43 BACKING OUR CUSTOMERS
Having our customers’ backs means maintaining their trust by protecting their data and enabling them to make safe and secure 
payments. Below, we describe our privacy, security, and fraud prevention measures as well as our commitment to responsible lending and 
product marketing. 
Safeguarding Customer Privacy and Security
We work hard to ensure that our customers around the world are in control of their privacy choices and 
can trust how we collect, use, and protect their personal data. We employ robust privacy and security 
programs, policies, and governance and strive to comply with all applicable privacy laws and regulations 
everywhere we operate (see Safeguarding Data and Protecting Privacy on page 70).
Our Global Privacy team oversees how we protect and manage personal data about our customers, 
prospects, and colleagues. Our Data Protection and Privacy Principles guide how we collect, use, store, 
share, transmit, delete, or otherwise process customers’ personal data. We enforce these principles in 
our Code of Conduct and through mandatory privacy and data security training for colleagues. We also 
invest in technology that gives our customers enhanced control over their marketing and data-sharing 
choices and offer a variety of channels for amending personal data.
We are committed to taking  all reasonable measures to protect customer data. When data breaches 
occur that require us to notify customers, we inform affected individuals as soon as possible. We also 
provide identity theft protection services and resources to help customers guard against fraud and identity  
theft, where applicable and available. PROTECTING OUR CUSTOMERS
PRIVACY RESOURCES FOR US CONSUMERS
Our website’s Privacy Center provides US customers with transparent, simple-to-use resources that explain how data about them is 
used and the privacy choices available to them. T opics include: 
 ·Our Data Protection and Privacy Principles, which explain our global commitment to privacy  
 ·Our Online Privacy Statement, which describes how we share and use data when customers use our online or mobile products and 
services, and the choices they can make related to marketing, sharing, and targeted advertising
 ·Product-specific Privacy Notices, which inform our customers about the personal data we collect, whether we share it, what types of 
third parties we share it with, and the choices they have related to the sharing of personal data 
Preventing Fraud and Maintaining Secure Payments
Our monitoring tools, controls, and policies help us detect and prevent fraud in our operations around the world. Through our general-
purpose card-issuing, merchant-acquiring, and card network businesses, we are able to connect participants and provide differentiated 
value across the commerce path. We maintain direct relationships with both our Card Members (as a card issuer) and merchants (as an 
acquirer), and we handle all key aspects of those relationships. These relationships create a “closed-loop” in that we have direct access to 
information at both ends of the card transaction. Our closed-loop allows us to analyze information on Card Member spending and build 
algorithms and other analytical tools that we use to, among other things, reduce fraud, while respecting Card Member preferences and 
protecting Card Member and merchant data in compliance with applicable policies and legal requirements. 
Fraud Rate Leadership
For 14 consecutive years, through 2021, American Express maintained the lowest fraud rates among the major 
card networks, according to the February 2021 Nilson Report.
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Colleagues Operating 
ResponsiblyAppendix Climate 
Solutions•   44 BACKING OUR CUSTOMERS
HELPING CUSTOMERS COMBAT FRAUD
Opportunistic fraudsters have taken advantage of unsuspecting victims by using phishing and other social engineering techniques to steal 
online login credentials, card details, and other personally identifiable information. We launched a US Card Member Fraud Education social 
media campaign in November 2020 as one way to combat the ongoing threat, highlighting how customers can remain vigilant against 
fraudsters trying to compromise their card credentials. 
In addition, we continue to invest in more secure connections and authentication mechanisms and promote these to our customers. We 
use anti-fraud solutions across payment channels for our Card Members, from in-store and online to mobile wallets. For example, our 
Enhanced Authorization process better identifies who is on the other end of a financial transaction in real time. Merchants who use it 
typically see increased approval rates, reduced false positives, and fraud reduction of up to 60%. Accertify, our wholly-owned subsidiary 
and leading provider of fraud prevention solutions, launched Digital Identity in 2020 to help businesses address fraudulent online account 
openings and takeovers. With significant growth in e-commerce, Accertify also launched Refund Abuse Protection in 2021, a solution that 
helps merchants mitigate fraudulent refund requests.
T o combat cyber threats, we deploy behavioral analytics that can help identify and stop fraud in our online application process for US 
consumers by predicting whether a person is a genuine applicant or a fraud risk. 
EDUCATING OUR COLLEAGUES
T raining our colleagues and using security technology can help mitigate risk to our business and protect customer information. We 
educate relevant colleagues on the risks inherent in the payment services industry and provide them with tools to analyze those risks and 
guidance on where and how to escalate issues. All colleagues participate in mandatory information security and privacy training every 
year. We also run simulations that test our colleagues’ ability to detect and respond to suspicious activity. 
Lending and Marketing Responsibly
Millions of people use our cards to meet their personal and business needs. We take this responsibility 
seriously and seek to employ customer practices that embody transparency, truthfulness, fairness, and 
a culture of non-discrimination throughout the credit lifecycle. 
We have a global compliance program that includes governance processes, Board reporting, monitoring, 
testing, and analytics. This includes risk assessments on fair lending and consumer practices. We 
regularly review marketing offers and credit decisions and investigate the root causes of customer 
complaints. When complaints require customer remediation, we follow an issue management process 
that delivers corrective actions and appropriate redress. We also conduct regular colleague trainings on 
compliance with applicable laws and regulations throughout the credit lifecycle—including marketing, 
underwriting, and collections activities—and track completion rates. In the United States, training includes the Equal Credit Opportunity 
Act and Unfair, Deceptive, or Abusive Acts or Practices. 
We offer a variety of financial relief options including a temporarily lowered annual percentage rate (APR) on our cards, waived fees, 
and other accommodations for customers enrolled in our financial relief program. We may also refer Card Members to nonprofit credit 
counseling services as needed. If we must take an adverse action on an account, such as a line decrease or a cancellation, we seek to 
communicate the reasons why.
Responsible Lending and Marketing Principles
PRODUCT TRANSPARENCY
 ·Clear, simple, and easy to understand offers
 ·Consider all reasonable interpretations from a customer’s or prospect’s point of view
END-TO-END ACCOUNTABILITY
 ·Understand how our offers will work in practice, including the risks, controls, and monitoring associated with end-to-end 
execution, including fulfillment and servicing
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Colleagues Operating 
ResponsiblyAppendix Climate 
SolutionsTODAY MORE THAN EVER, WE SEEK TO PUT OUR 
SERVICE ETHIC AND GLOBAL RESOURCES TO WORK  
TO HELP BUILD A MORE EQUITABLE, SUSTAINABLE, 
AND RESILIENT FUTURE.
As the COVID-19 pandemic and global movements for social justice and climate action have 
highlighted the challenges for people around the world, we are responding by accelerating our 
efforts to strengthen communities and empower the local leaders and organizations tackling 
some of society’s toughest challenges. BACKING OUR  
COMMUNITIES
INVESTING IN OUR COMMUNITIES  47 
BACKING OUR COMMUNITIES THROUGH THE PANDEMIC 51
ENABLING COLLEAGUES TO BACK OUR COMMUNITIES 53
OBJECTIVES GOALS•   46 BACKING OUR COMMUNITIES
In 2021, we launched new goals to back our communities through grants, programs, and colleague engagement initiatives. These 
investments support our ESG ambitions to promote diversity, equity, and inclusion (DE&I), build financial confidence, and advance  
climate solutions. 
How Our ESG Strategy Connects to Communities 
Build Financial Confidence: Help build 
resilient communities through grants, 
programs, and initiatives that support 
economic empowerment and equity ·Invest $500 million to build more resilient and 
equitable communities from 2021 through 2025 
through grants, programs, and initiatives from the 
American Express Center for Community  
Development (CCD) and the American Express 
FoundationPromote Diversity, Equity, 
and Inclusion: Advance racial 
equality and social justice in our 
communities ·Provide $50 million in grants from late 2020 through 
2024 to nonprofits led by people of color or members 
of underrepresented groups, including organizations 
focused on addressing inequality and promoting  
social justice
 ·Increase the representation of American Express 
Leadership Academy participants in the US who are 
people of color and from underrepresented groups 
from 50% in 2019 to 75% by the end of 2024
Advance Climate Solutions: 
Support community programs  
and initiatives to help build more  
climate resilient and equitable 
communities ·Provide at least $10 million to support initiatives, 
partnerships, and programs that address the adverse 
effects of climate change and pollution on communities 
from 2021 through 2025
 ·Engage our colleagues in sustainability initiatives 
through the Green2Gether programBACKING OUR COMMUNITIES
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Operating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix Climate 
Solutions•   47 BACKING OUR COMMUNITIES
 ·Provided $48 million in charitable giving globally in 2020, including grants 
from our company, the American Express Foundation, our Center for 
Community Development, and gift-matching programs
 ·Provided more than $16 million in grants to nonprofits committed to 
social justice and issues impacting people of color and members of 
underrepresented groups through June 20211   
 ·Pledged $10 million to support Black-owned small businesses over the next 
four years through the Coalition to Back Black Businesses, in partnership with 
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Foundation, bringing together four national 
Black Chambers
 ·Launched the Backing Historic Small Restaurants program with the National 
T rust for Historic Preservation, focusing on establishments owned by women 
and underrepresented minorities
 ·Supported training for 150,000+ social purpose leaders since 2007 through 
grants and the American Express Leadership Academy
 ·Provided more than $10 million in financial support for COVID-19 relief efforts 
through June 20211  
 ·Enabled organizations across the globe to purchase more than 18 million 
meals and 525,000 items of personal protective equipment
 ·Donated to the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum to disburse 1,000 
oxygen concentrators to support communities in India 
 ·Expanded our gift-matching program to colleagues in 35 countries, resulting 
in 26,000+ colleagues in total donating to nonprofits through our gift- 
matching programs in 2020
 ·Matched $5.8 million in colleague donations
 ·Launched our first virtual Serve2Gether Consulting Marathon giving 
colleagues the opportunity to work in teams remotely to provide pro bono 
consulting to US nonprofits
2020-2021 Highlights   
INVESTING 
IN OUR 
COMMUNITIES  
BACKING OUR COMMUNITIES 
DURING THE PANDEMIC
ENGAGING OUR COLLEAGUES 
TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE
1. 2020 grant amounts included in the $48 million in total charitable giving globally.Our Focus Areas What We Accomplished
Since 1954, when we created the American Express Foundation, we have provided more than $974 million to thousands of causes around 
the world through the Foundation and our Corporate Giving Program. 
In 2020, we increased our philanthropic giving in response to the global health crisis and movements for racial and social justice. The 
chart below reports on our giving priorities for the year, including COVID-19 relief, support for underrepresented groups, developing social 
purpose leaders, preserving historic places, and connecting colleagues to giving opportunities.INVESTING IN OUR COMMUNITIES
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Operating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix Climate 
Solutions•   48 BACKING OUR COMMUNITIES
Grantmaking Priorities Our Approach 2020 Impacts
Serving  
CommunitiesWe support nonprofit organizations that deliver 
needed services and engage volunteers. In 2020, we 
gave grants to more than 80 nonprofits that serve 
local communities in 20 countries. ·Delivered more than $10.5 million in grants to the 
NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, the 
National Urban League, and other organizations led 
by people of color 
 ·Provided more than $8 million in financial support 
for COVID-19 relief efforts, including more than 50 
grants to frontline organizations in 20 countries (see 
full COVID-19 relief efforts on pages 51-52)
 ·Gave more than $500,000 for disaster response 
following wildfires in western United States, 
brushfires in Australia, Hurricane Laura in West 
Louisiana and East T exas, and the catastrophic 
explosion in Beirut, Lebanon  
Developing  
LeadersWe help emerging social purpose leaders build their 
leadership skills and organizational effectiveness. 
During the COVID-19 pandemic, we continued to 
support leadership development training through 
virtual and hybrid programming. ·Provided $6.7 million to nonprofits to develop social 
purpose leaders including through 65 grants to 
organizations that switched to virtual formats to 
create, expand, or maintain their own leadership 
development programs 
 ·T rained more than 21,000 emerging nonprofit 
and social sector leaders, including 275 global 
participants in our American Express Leadership 
Academy
Preserving  
PlacesWe support organizations and projects that 
preserve or restore major historic sites to provide 
sustainable access and enjoyment for current and 
future visitors. ·Supported 25 historic preservation projects 
including programs for visitors to access historic 
sites virtually during the pandemic
Supporting 
ColleaguesWe empower our colleagues to make a difference 
in their communities through our flagship giving 
and volunteering programs Give2Gether and 
Serve2Gether. ·Matched $5.8 million in giving to nonprofits by 
26,000+ colleagues through our global match 
program available in 35 countries 
 ·Provided 9,000+ volunteer opportunities to 
colleagues across 14 countries2020 Philanthropic Contributions 
Helping Historic Small Restaurants Recover
Historic restaurants are cultural treasures that define our communities. T o help them recover from the pandemic, 
we launched the $1 million Backing Historic Small Restaurants program during 2021 in partnership with 
the National T rust for Historic Preservation. Twenty-five iconic restaurants from Memphis to Milwaukee and 
Washington, DC, have been awarded $40,000 each in grants funded by American Express and administered by the National T rust. 
Recipients can use the money to enhance restaurant exteriors, build new outdoor seating areas, and upgrade their online presence.  
The chosen restaurants are culturally significant with a focus on those owned by underrepresented groups, including people of 
color and women, who have been disproportionally impacted by the pandemic. 
Learn more about the initiative and 25 restaurants selected here .  
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Operating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix Climate 
SolutionsLOOKING AHEAD
In 2021, we updated our philanthropic giving priorities to align more closely with our global ESG strategy. These changes include 
introducing a new philanthropic grantmaking category, “Sustaining Communities. ” Our grantmaking under this category will focus on 
criteria in the following areas aligned with our ESG priorities (see Our ESG Strategy on pages 10-13):
 ·Supporting underrepresented communities 
 ·Building financial confidence and resilience
 ·Advancing climate actions and solutions
We plan to support nonprofit organizations in the US and globally that focus on innovative solutions that advance these priorities. Through 
these grantmaking efforts, new and ongoing strategic programs, and partnerships, we hope to expand on our philanthropic legacy and 
help build stronger, inclusive communities for a more resilient future. 
Promoting Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion 
Worldwide protests for racial justice and the disproportionate impact of COVID-19 on underrepresented communities in the United States 
have rightly focused stronger attention on the deep-rooted racial inequality in our society. American Express is committed to fight against 
all forms of discrimination, including through our partnerships and grantmaking. 
In 2020, we joined OneT en, a coalition of more than 50 companies committed to working with nonprofits 
that develop diverse talent to progress the careers of one million Black/African American workers over 
10 years. Our Chairman and CEO also joined the New Y ork Jobs CEO Council, a consortium of New Y ork 
area employers working to expand access to skills training, job opportunities, and career advancement 
for underrepresented groups. In 2021, we also joined NinetyT oZero, an initiative focused on driving 
change and sharing best practices to combat the 90% racial wealth gap between white and Black 
Americans.
T o act on our DE&I commitments in our communities, we set a goal to provide $50 million in grants 
by the end of 2024 to nonprofit organizations led by people of color or members of underrepresented 
groups. These partners include organizations focused on addressing inequality and promoting social 
justice. Some examples of the initiatives we supported together in 2020-2021 include: 
 ·Social purpose leadership training for diversity organizations, including Hispanics in Philanthropy, 
Public Allies, the Council of Urban Professionals Institute, Americans for Indian Opportunity, National Urban League, and Leadership 
Education for Asian Pacifics 
 ·Leadership programs that support women leaders in the nonprofit sector, including with The New Y ork Women’s Foundation and the 
Chicago Foundation for Women
 ·The New Y ork City LGBTQ+ Historic Sites Project run by the Fund for the City of New Y ork
 ·Development programs supporting visually impaired leaders with the American Foundation for the Blind
 ·Support addressing the immediate and economic needs of Native American communities disproportionately impacted by COVID-19 
with the First Nations Development Institute
 ·Capacity building for Latinx nonprofits and increasing COVID-19 vaccination rates among the Latinx community with the  
Hispanic Federation•   49 BACKING OUR COMMUNITIES
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Operating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix Climate 
Solutions•   50 BACKING OUR COMMUNITIES
2020 Actions to Promote Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
PRIORITIZING LEADERSHIP TRAINING FOR PEOPLE OF COLOR  
American Express has invested $100 million since 2007 to help more than 150,000 social purpose leaders across 
100+ countries reach their potential. Our longstanding signature program, the American Express Leadership  
Academy, builds the personal, business, and leadership skills of emerging nonprofit and social purpose leaders 
through multi-day trainings. In 2020, we continued to support our partners and participants by hosting nine virtual  
programs for nearly 300 leaders from 24 countries. We also pledged to increase the representation of people of color  
and individuals from underrepresented groups among US participants from 50% in 2019 to 75% by 2024. We made a  
good start in 2020, achieving 57% participation by people of color.
SUPPORTING BLACK-OWNED SMALL BUSINESSES 
American Express launched a coalition to support Black-owned small businesses across the US in 2020, pledging 
$10 million over four years to fund grants to support post-pandemic recovery and address the challenges Black 
entrepreneurs face due to racial and social inequalities. Our partners include the U.S. Chamber of Commerce 
Foundation, the National Black Chamber of Commerce, the National Business League, the U.S. Black Chambers, Inc.,  
and Walker’s Legacy. In its first year, the coalition partners distributed 600 grants to Black-owned small businesses  
located in 33 states. Learn more at webackblackbusinesses.com.  
BACKING MEMBERS OF THE ASIAN COMMUNITY   
American Express stands by the Asian community in the face of rising racist sentiment and actions around the  
world and is committed to supporting solutions that create meaningful change in our communities. T o do our part to 
counter anti-Asian violence and harassment, we supported Asian communities and organizations in 2020 including:
           THE CHINESE AMERICAN PLANNING COUNCIL (CPC):  We pledged $250,000 over two years to support CPC’s Asian 
American Community Safety and Belonging initiative, which addresses the post-pandemic health, healing, and recovery 
of New Y ork City’s Asian American communities. Activities to date included transportation and chaperones to vaccination 
sites in target neighborhoods and support for basic needs and emergency services, including food deliveries, wellness 
kits, and healthcare and mental health referrals.  
            THE ASIAN AMERICAN LEGAL DEFENSE AND EDUCATIONAL FUND (AALDEF): We donated $50,000 to help AALDEF counter 
coronavirus-related discrimination by providing legal assistance to harassment victims, mobilizing pro bono attorneys and 
interpreters, and collaborating with community groups, including through education on anti-Asian violence.    
             ASCEND FOUNDATION: We committed $50,000 to support the Foundation’s new Impact Fund, which raises awareness 
about the negative impacts of the model minority myth and anti-Asian sentiments. Collaborating with 120+ partners, 
Ascend mobilizes business leaders to support small businesses, provides COVID-19 resource guides for employees, teaches 
members to be more race conversant, and creates allyship programs with other nonprofits.
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Operating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix Climate 
Solutions•   51 BACKING OUR COMMUNITIES
Building Financial Confidence
Strengthening communities and building their financial confidence is good for people and business. 
American Express provides grants, programs, and initiatives that support economic empowerment 
and equity. 
In 2021, we set a new goal to invest $500 million to build more resilient and equitable communities 
by the end of 2025. The American Express Center for Community Development (CCD) and the 
American Express Foundation will work with community partners on initiatives such as funding new 
low-income housing and programs that combat economic, educational, and other inequities. We 
will use our new Sustaining Communities grantmaking pillar to support organizations that deliver 
innovative, community-minded solutions to these deep-rooted challenges.
In 2020, CCD underwrote more than $275 million in loans and investments, resulting in the creation 
of more than 1,700 units of affordable housing. For example, we invested in a 49-unit affordable 
rental housing development in Arizona dedicated to homeless veterans whose residents will also 
receive assistance with food security, job training, transportation needs, and mental health and substance abuse counseling. Also, in 
Arizona, we partnered with the White Mountain Apache Housing Authority to support 28 single family rental homes for low to  
moderate income members of the Fort Apache Indian Reservation.  
Through June 2021, we’ve delivered more than $10 million in financial support to those on the front lines of this ongoing global crisis. 
Recipients included the International Medical Corps, the CDC Foundation, Feeding America, Save the Children, the International Rescue 
Committee, and the COVID-19 Solidarity Response Fund for the World Health Organization, as well as local organizations in 20 countries. 
We provided grants to help purchase more than 18 million meals and 525,000 items of personal protective equipment for healthcare 
workers. We also backed efforts to fight the pandemic’s disproportionate impacts on communities of color. For example, in the United 
States, we gave $250,000 to the BET COVID-19 Relief Fund, in partnership with United Way Worldwide, to provide financial, employment, 
and food assistance to African American communities. BACKING OUR COMMUNITIES THROUGH  
THE PANDEMIC 
Partnering for ImpactT o support frontline US medical professionals, we partnered with Hilton to donate up to 
1 million hotel room nights and with Marriott to provide $10 million worth of hotel stays. 
Through a partnership with World Central Kitchen, we contributed $1 million to provide 
healthy, freshly prepared meals to frontline healthcare professionals in some of the 
hardest hit cities across the United States. We also matched $1 million in donations made 
by our US Card Members to Feeding America using their Membership Rewards points 
through JustGiving.com. 
As the focus in the battle against the pandemic increasingly centered on vaccinations and 
social and economic recovery, in addition to the $10 million spent through June 2021, we 
committed another $5 million in grants to nonprofits supporting these efforts  
in underserved communities. These grants will include: 
 ·$2 million over four years to United Way of NYC to address the urgent pandemic-
related needs of New Y ork City’s Black, Latinx, and Asian communities, including 
access to healthcare and COVID-19 vaccination education 
 ·$2 million over four years to the Hispanic Federation to directly support 10,000 
vaccinations as well as national outreach to increase Latinx vaccination rates across 
the United States 
 ·$1 million over four years to the First Nations Development Institute to support  
long-term economic empowerment while addressing food insecurity exacerbated by 
the pandemic
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Operating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix Climate 
Solutions•   52 BACKING OUR COMMUNITIES
STANDING BY INDIA
In 2021, our communities throughout India endured a devastating second wave of COVID-19 
cases that put pressure on the country’s already overwhelmed healthcare system. We 
donated funds for disbursing 1,000 oxygen concentrators via the US-India Strategic 
Partnership Forum and its nonprofit partner, the US-India Friendship Alliance, and the setup 
of a 100-bed portable hospital in partnership with the Government of India to address 
critical healthcare infrastructure needs. Since 2020, we have provided more than $2.3 
million to local relief efforts delivered by Save the Children, the US-India Friendship Alliance, 
Goonj—a disaster relief nonprofit—and the Society of Nutrition, Education and Health Action 
(SNEHA), among others, to address critical needs including PPE kits, masks, and food 
distribution for underserved communities. 
In addition, we are supporting pandemic recovery in economically hard-hit Indian 
communities, including assistance for self-employed craftswomen. In 2021, we began 
working with the nonprofit Dastkar to provide wages, raw materials, and marketing 
assistance to artisans dealing with the twin challenges of economic slowdown and lack of 
access to formal financial credit. The program has impacted more than 13,000 beneficiaries 
directly across 21 states in India. Learn more about the partnership here . 
Supporting Our Global Communities 
Our offices around the world supported their communities through the health crisis. Some highlights included:   
 ·Supporting the Australian Literacy and Numeracy Foundation to continue delivering its Early Language & 
Literacy program through digital innovations, enabling over 1,500 children in Aboriginal and T orres Strait Islander 
communities to make critical progress in their oral language and early literacy development. 
 ·Donating £50,000 to kick-start the Sussex Crisis Fund in the UK which supported those most affected by the 
coronavirus outbreak through small charities and community groups.   
 ·Extending our partnership with United Way Greater T oronto in Canada to provide support to families facing food 
insecurity. The American Express Foundation contributed $200,000 toward 50,000 meals and we incentivized our 
Card Members to help double the impact to 100,000 meals as part of a Shop Small initiative. 
 ·Contributing more than $325,000 across Mexico, Argentina, and Brazil to nonprofits offering relief to marginalized 
communities, young people in vulnerable situations, children, and persons living with diabetes. Funds were used for 
food and medical supplies and COVID-19 prevention and education measures, among others.  1,OOO OXYGEN 
CONCENTRATORS
$2.3M+ TOWARDS RELIEF 
EFFORTS IN INDIA•   52
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Operating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix Climate 
Solutions•   53 BACKING OUR COMMUNITIES
Pivoting to Virtual Volunteering 
Since early in the pandemic, we’ve adapted our corporate volunteer program to prioritize practical and 
safe ways to support nonprofits.
 ·Through Serve2Gether Consulting+, American Express colleagues can apply their expertise in 
marketing, IT , social media, and other areas to consult with nonprofits remotely. This new online 
platform makes it easy to search for organizations and projects that match our colleagues’ 
interests. Colleagues can also nominate nonprofits that they believe will benefit from the platform. 
From the launch of the program in 2019 through June 2021, 229 nonprofits received consulting 
services valued at approximately $1.2 million.2
 ·Our Strive for College virtual mentorship program connects colleagues and US Card Members with 
volunteering opportunities mentoring US high school students seeking guidance on their college 
and financial aid applications.
 ·Our Serve2Gether Consulting Marathon, held virtually over two half-days in July 2021, attracted 14 teams across the company who 
used their expertise to help our nonprofit partners with branding, digital media strategies, operations, and more. 
We enable our colleagues to make a difference in their communities and around the world through three flagship programs: Serve2Gether, 
Give2Gether, and Green2Gether. Through Serve2Gether, colleagues engage in hands-on, virtual, and pro bono volunteer work at 
nonprofits of their choice. T o amplify their impact, we provide micro-grants of $500–$2,500 to organizations where colleagues volunteer 
25 hours or more a year.  In 2020, we pivoted our volunteer programs to accommodate remote work. This included the launch of our first 
virtual Serve2Gether Consulting Marathon initiative, giving colleagues the opportunity to work together in teams to provide pro bono 
consulting to US nonprofits. 
In 2020, with nonprofit needs soaring during the pandemic, we became the first financial services company to partner with GlobalGiving 
to launch a global employee gift-matching program. Through the partnership, we extended our long-time colleague gift-matching 
program, Give2Gether—available in the US, Canada, and India—to colleagues in an additional 35 countries, empowering them to make a 
difference in their own communities during the pandemic. In total, colleagues provided more than $5.8 million in matched donations to 
more than 4,200 nonprofits in 80 countries.  
Learn more about our Green2Gether program in the Advancing Climate Solutions section beginning on page 54. ENABLING COLLEAGUES TO BACK  
OUR COMMUNITIES
2. Provided by Catchafire, based on the estimated cost for project scoping and talent sourcing, including 6,922 hours of pro bono work valued at $178 per hour.
2020 Highlights
2020 SERVE2GETHER IMPACTS  
 ·9,000+ volunteer opportunities provided to colleagues across 14 countries 
 ·372 US colleagues submitted for Serve2Gether grants that were awarded to organizations  
where they volunteer  
2020 GIVE2GETHER IMPACTS   
 ·26,000+ colleagues across 35 countries donated to nonprofits through our colleague gift-matching programs  
 ·$5.8 million in colleague donations matched
 ·4,200+ charities in 80 countries supported  
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Operating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix Climate 
SolutionsONE OF THE MOST IMPORTANT WAYS WE CAN BACK OUR 
COLLEAGUES, CUSTOMERS, AND COMMUNITIES IS TO 
CONTRIBUTE TO A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE AND ACT TO 
PROTECT THE ENVIRONMENT ON WHICH ALL LIFE DEPENDS. 
Climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing humanity, and we are committed to 
supporting the global transition to a low-carbon economy. ADVANCING CLIMATE  
SOLUTIONS
MINIMIZING OUR CLIMATE IMPACT: MOVING TO NET ZERO 57
INVESTING IN SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS  57
ENABLING OUR CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS TO TRANSITION TO A  
LOW-CARBON ECONOMY  60
SUPPORTING PROGRAMS AND INITIATIVES TO HELP BUILD MORE RESILIENT  
AND EQUITABLE COMMUNITIES 62
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE DATA SUMMARY  63
•   55 ADVANCING CLIMATE SOLUTIONS
Since 2018, we have been a CarbonNeutral® company, powered by 100% renewable electricity across our global operations.1 In 2020, we 
began aligning the way we assess risks to our business as a result of climate change with the recommendations set forth by the T ask Force 
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). We continue to assess climate-related risks and opportunities across our business to 
inform our ESG strategy (see the TCFD Index on page 75). We are now building on these efforts with new goals (see below). These include 
committing to net-zero emissions by 2035 in alignment with the Science Based T argets initiative (SBTi). 
1. Operations include all our managed facilities, field sites, and data centers. Managed facilities are individual properties operationally managed by our global real 
estate team and housing critical business functions. Field sites are individual properties that are not operationally managed by our global real estate team but 
directly by our business units. They are typically smaller sites, less than 30,000 square feet (including airport lounges, foreign exchange kiosks, and sales offices) 
that are owned or leased by American Express. ADVANCING CLIMATE SOLUTIONS
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Climate 
SolutionsOperating 
ResponsiblyColleagues AppendixOBJECTIVES GOALSESG Strategy: Advancing Climate Solutions
 ·Commit to net-zero emissions by 2035 in 
alignment with the Science Based T argets 
initiative (SBTi)
 ·Enhance the management of climate-related 
risks and opportunities across our businessMinimize our climate impact and manage 
our climate-related risks and opportunities
Enable our customers and partners to 
transition to a low-carbon economy through 
the development of new capabilities across 
our company ·Pilot low-carbon product innovations,  including 
carbon tracking and offset solutions, by the end 
of 2022
Support community programs and 
initiatives to help build more climate 
resilient and equitable communities ·Provide at least $10 million to support initiatives, 
partnerships, and programs that address the 
adverse effects of climate change and pollution 
on communities from 2021 through 2025
 ·Engage our colleagues in sustainability initiatives 
through the Green2Gether program•   56 ADVANCING CLIMATE SOLUTIONS
 · Maintained carbon neutral operations since 20182
 ·Powered our operations with 100% renewable electricity since 2018
 ·Joined RE100, a global initiative of influential businesses committed to using 
100% renewable electricity
 ·Reduced energy use by 56% across our managed facilities in 2020 compared 
to 2011, our baseline year for target energy reductions, which was driven in 
part by the facility closures due to the COVID-19 pandemic
 ·Conducted a qualitative climate risk scenario analysis to assess physical and 
transition risks to our business in alignment with the TCFD 
 ·Funded the planting of more than 150,000 trees through colleague 
engagement campaigns during Earth Month in 2020 and 2021
     ·Sourced 95% of direct marketing, customer communications, and office 
paper from certified responsibly managed forests
 ·Created a new goal to provide at least $10 million in support for initiatives, 
partnerships, and programs that address the adverse effects of climate 
change and pollution on communities by the end of 2025.
2020-2021 Highlights   
MAINTAIN 
CARBON 
NEUTRAL 
OPERATIONS  
ASSESS CLIMATE RISKS AND 
OPPORTUNITIES Our Focus Areas What We Accomplished
PARTNER WITH OUR COLLEAGUES
SOURCE 
RESPONSIBLY
SUPPORT COMMUNITY PROGRAMS
2. Achieved carbon neutral operations for Scope 1 (direct emissions from sources owned or controlled by American Express), Scope 2 (indirect location-based 
and market-based emissions), and Scope 3 (waste and employee business travel, including third-party air, rail, and rental cars) emissions through renewable 
energy credits, carbon offsets, and reduced GHG emissions. Operations include all our managed facilities, field sites, and data centers. Managed facilities are 
individual properties operationally managed by our global real estate team and housing critical business functions. Field sites are individual properties that are not 
operationally managed by our global real estate team but directly by our business units. They are typically smaller sites, less than 30,000 square feet (including 
airport lounges, foreign exchange kiosks, and sales offices) that are owned or leased by American Express.
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Climate 
SolutionsOperating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix•   57 ADVANCING CLIMATE SOLUTIONS
by inviting them to track, reduce, and eventually neutralize their own operational greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. As a start, we plan to 
work with our top vendors, responsible for 50% of our annual third-party supplier spend. We will support and encourage them to set their 
own science-based emissions reduction targets.
We are supporting partnerships and pledges that align with our ESG strategy and goals, such as: 
 ·Joined RE100 in 2020, a global initiative of businesses committed to using 100% renewable electricity
 ·Committed to set targets aligned with the Science Based T arget initiative and joined the Business Ambition for 1.5°C in 2021  
 ·Joined the Race to Zero in 2021, established by the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) to rally 
leadership for a zero-carbon recovery
 ·Became a formal TCFD Supporter in 2021 to work toward building a more resilient financial system through transparent,  
climate-related disclosures
T o inform our evolving climate solutions and strategies, we monitor the risks and opportunities posed by rising global temperatures to our 
operations and value chain. For more information, see the TCFD Index on page 75.
INVESTING IN SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS
We aim to minimize our operational footprint on the environment. We continue to make investments to increase energy efficiency, use 
renewable energy, reduce GHG emissions, and create sustainable and safe workplaces. In 2019, we set environmental goals for 2025 that 
cover energy and water use, waste generation, green building certifications, phaseout of single-use plastics, and sourcing  
paper responsibly. 
In 2020, we made significant progress on these goals (see table below). However, our reductions in energy, waste, and water across our 
global operations were greatly impacted by office closures and work-from-home arrangements due to the pandemic. We therefore expect 
usage to increase as colleagues return to the office. T o follow best practices to support colleague health and safety during the pandemic, 
we removed reusable items in our cafeterias. Consequently, we temporarily suspended tracking performance against our single-use 
plastic goal across our operations.We are committed to supporting a low-carbon economy in line with the science-based 
recommendations of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). Achieving 
and maintaining carbon neutral operations was an important first step. We are now taking 
this further by committing to net-zero emissions by 2035 in alignment with the SBTi.3 We 
selected this goal based on SBTi’s most ambitious level of climate action, to limit global 
warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. Of more than 1,700 companies 
that made commitments through SBTi, approximately 700 have committed to set targets in 
alignment with the 1.5°C ambition. 
Since our operations are already carbon neutral, the focus for achieving our new goal will be 
on our vendors. We plan to work with our suppliers to reduce their impact on our value chain 
MINIMIZING OUR CLIMATE IMPACT: 
MOVING TO NET ZERO
3. American Express is following the methodology of the SBTi for our commitment to net zero by 2035, which covers all Scope 1 and 2 emissions and a minimum of 
two-thirds of total Scope 3 emissions in conformance with the GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard.
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Climate 
SolutionsOperating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix2025 Environmental Goals 2020 Progress
Energy  
and Emissions ·Remain carbon neutral across our operations4
          Achieved
 ·Continue to power our operations with 100% 
renewable electricity
 ·Reduce energy use by 35% across our 
managed facilities compared to 20115
Waste  ·Reduce waste generated from our managed 
facilities by 10% per colleague compared to 
20195
 ·Divert 60% of office waste generated from 
our managed facilities away from landfills5
 ·Achieve zero waste certification for our US 
headquartersOn Track  
Diverted 41% of waste from landfills
Water  ·Reduce water use from our managed facilities 
by 10% per colleague compared to 20195
Sourcing  ·Eliminate single-use plastics across our 
operationsT o ensure we followed best practices 
to support health and safety during the 
pandemic, we temporarily suspended 
tracking performance against our single-
use plastic goal across our operations
 ·Source 100% of our direct marketing, 
customer communications, and office paper 
from certified responsibly managed forests
Green  
Buildings ·Achieve Green Building certifications for 60% 
of our operations6•   58 ADVANCING CLIMATE SOLUTIONS
Progress on Our Operational Environmental Goals 

Achieved
100%Target: 100%
Exceeded Target: 35%
56%
Exceeded Target: 10%
78%
On Track Target: 60%
52%
Exceeded Target: 10%
62%
On Track Target: 100%
95%
On Track Target: 60%
55%
4. Operations include all our managed facilities, field sites, and data centers. Managed facilities are individual properties operationally managed by our global real 
estate team and housing critical business functions. Field sites are individual properties that are not operationally managed by our global real estate team but 
directly by our business units. They are typically smaller sites, less than 30,000 square feet (including airport lounges, foreign exchange kiosks, and sales offices), 
that are owned or leased by American Express. The company’s goal to remain carbon neutral covers Scope 1 (direct emissions from sources owned or controlled by 
American Express), Scope 2 (indirect location-based and market-based emissions), and Scope 3 (waste and employee business travel, including third-party air, rail, 
and rental cars) emissions through renewable energy credits, carbon offsets, and reduced GHG emissions.
5. Measurement is based only on managed facilities where metered and/or measured data is available; per colleague goals based on number of employees assigned in 
such managed facilities. Reduction in energy, water, and waste usage is partially due to reduced overall demand related to COVID-19 work-from-home arrangements. 
Energy, water, and waste usage is expected to increase as colleagues return to the office.
6. Green building certified percentage is represented by the total square footage of leased or owned facilities actively occupied by American Express (excluding parking 
lot square footage) certified under a global or locally recognized third-party environmental building rating system as meeting their performance criteria (LEED, 
BREEAM, NABERS, and GreenMark).Note:  Our performance in reducing energy, waste, and water across our global operations was greatly impacted by office closures and work-from-home arrangements 
due to the pandemic.
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Climate 
SolutionsOperating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix•   59 ADVANCING CLIMATE SOLUTIONS
Maintaining Carbon Neutral Operations
American Express employed approximately 63,700 colleagues globally as of December 31, 2020, in offices across more than 35 countries 
worldwide, and we seek ways to minimize our real estate footprint. 
T o reduce our energy use and maintain carbon neutral operations, we invest in efficiency measures, on-site rooftop solar installations, 
carbon offset projects, and renewable energy attribute certificates (EACs) that verify the production of renewable electricity in an amount 
equivalent to the total electricity we consume. Since 2018, we have maintained CarbonNeutral® certification across our global offices in 
accordance with The CarbonNeutral Protocol, a leading third-party framework. 
T o maintain carbon neutrality in 2020, we continued to implement lighting retrofits, HVAC equipment upgrades, and new building control 
systems. Due to these investments, and the reduction in energy demand due to temporary work-from-home arrangements, energy 
consumption in our managed offices decreased by 38% from 2019 and 56% compared to our 2011 baseline. 
T o help mitigate GHG emissions from our global offices and power our operations with 100% renewable electricity, we continued to 
purchase EACs that support clean energy growth, power our data center in North Carolina using onsite solar panels, and explore options for 
other on-site solar installations. We also financed carbon offset projects such as new wind power development projects to offset emissions 
from our non-electric energy use, including colleague business travel and waste generated in our operations (see graphics below). 
Data centers represent over 1 million square feet of our building space and are critical to the smooth operation of our business. In 2020, 
they accounted for approximately 56% of the electricity used to power our operations, producing approximately 42% of our total Scope 1 
and Scope 2 carbon emissions. By implementing energy efficiency measures across these sites, we have reduced our climate impact while 
saving an estimated 28 million kWh of electricity since 2012. 
7 . The PUE is the total overall utility load divided by total load needed to support the data halls. We collect data from strategic metering devices within our building 
systems as well as our Energy Performance Management System (EPMS), which reports real-time PUE data.
8. Primary Data Center for Daily BAU (business-as-usual) activities.
9. Disaster Recovery Data Center for Production Data Center.
10. Green building certified is represented by the total square footage of leased or owned facilities actively occupied by American Express (excluding parking lot square 
footage) certified under a global or locally recognized third-party rating system (LEED, BREEAM, NABERS, and GreenMark).Rethinking Our Workspaces
We strive to design, build, and operate our facilities to consume less resources, emit fewer greenhouse gases, and improve indoor 
environmental quality and colleague well-being. T o support these efforts, we follow sustainability best practices, including the US 
Green Building Council’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certification program and international green building 
standards, such as BREEAM, NABERS, and GreenMark. In 2020, 55% of our real estate portfolio—25 buildings in 13 countries—have green 
building certifications.10  
Our global workspace program, BlueWork, makes our offices as green and comfortable as possible with ergonomic furniture and 
sustainable construction materials based on LEED standards. We allocate workspace and remote work capabilities in ways that use our 
real estate as efficiently as possible and offer flexibility to our colleagues. 
T o maintain resiliency and business continuity in our offices and data centers, we also include factors such as climate-related physical 
risks in our real estate strategies over the short, medium, and long term. For example, one of our newest buildings in Sunrise, Florida, was 
designed to withstand Category 5 hurricanes and major flooding events.of EACs purchased 
worldwide230,801 MWh 
CO2e of carbon offsets 
purchased28,017 Mt  
of renewable solar  
electricity generated  
at our North Carolina data center577 MWh  
 ·1.61 for our production data center8 
 ·1.57 for our redundancy data center9 
 ·1.97 for our testing data centerData Center Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE)7  
kWh of estimated savings 
annually from energy 
efficiency initiatives 
implemented in 2020~4.5 million 
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Climate 
SolutionsOperating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix•   60 ADVANCING CLIMATE SOLUTIONS
Reducing Our Water and Waste Footprint
Ubiquitous plastic waste and the global breakdown of recycling supply chains threaten the health of the world’s oceans and other 
ecosystems. T o help tackle these challenges, we have strengthened our focus on waste management. Four of our 2025 environmental 
goals are designed to reduce and divert landfill-bound waste and to phase out single-use plastics. 
In 2019, we launched several initiatives to support these goals, including a composting program at 
our New Y ork headquarters. In 2020, we had to adapt some of these activities to meet new pandemic-
related safety protocols, including the reintroduction of single-use paper cups in our floor pantries. 
The shift to work-from-home arrangements also led to a big drop in waste generation and water use 
across our facilities. In 2020, we generated 29.25 kg of waste per colleague, 78% lower than in 2019, 
and diverted 52% of refuse away from landfills at our managed facilities. 
Water is an increasingly precious resource, especially in regions experiencing historic droughts such 
as the southwestern US. In 2019, we set a goal to reduce water consumption at our managed facilities 
by 10% per colleague by 2025.11 We aim to achieve this through colleague engagement and education 
as well as building design. For example, our newly opened office building  
in Phoenix has low-flow fixtures and automatic water faucets.  
11. Measurement is based only on managed facilities where metered and/or measured data is available.
12. ”Electronic” includes payments received via phone, online, Auto Pay, third-party remits, and wire transfers.
13.  Includes Global Consumer, Global Small Business, and US Corporate Card Members.
Customers increasingly expect environmentally responsible and low-carbon products, services, and sourcing practices from the 
companies with whom they do business. We recognize the opportunity to reduce our environmental impact across our business, including 
how our products and services are created, delivered, and used by our customers. 
In particular, many of our customers want to understand the environmental impacts associated with their spending. We currently make our 
Carbon Footprint Dashboard available to certain commercial clients so that they are able to track emissions data associated with their air 
travel. This data helps clients monitor their carbon emissions and better understand travel behaviors so they can find opportunities to reduce 
emissions. Additionally, through our Global Insights and Advisory T eam, we offer services to large and global corporate customers to help 
them identify and measure their current environmental impacts from travel, benchmark their existing travel polices with a sustainability lens, 
and offer tools and recommendations to develop new corporate sustainability goals, strategies, and greener travel practices.Sourcing Responsibly
We do our best to source environmentally and socially responsible products and services from third-party vendors. Our 2025 goals 
include sourcing 100% of our direct marketing, customer communications, and office paper from certified responsibly managed forests 
and eliminating single-use plastics across our operations. T o support these goals, we removed plastic straws and stirrers across our 
operations. T o learn more about our responsible procurement practices, see Operating Responsibly beginning on page 64.
 ·95% of our direct marketing, customer communications, and office 
paper used was certified from responsibly managed forests
 ·94% of Card Member payments were electronic12 and 61% of 
statements were paperless13 
ENABLING OUR CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS 
TO TRANSITION TO A LOW-CARBON ECONOMY2020 Highlights
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Climate 
SolutionsOperating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix•   61 ADVANCING CLIMATE SOLUTIONS
 ·Expanding our Carbon Footprint Dashboard, making it available 
to certain commercial clients 
 ·Partnering with Emerald, a leading innovator in sustainable 
disposables, to offer tree-free and plastic-free takeout packaging 
products for restaurants at a 20% discount
 ·Updating a feature on our Fine Hotels & Resorts Digital Directory 
to help customers find properties with third-party environmental 
certifications ·Supporting projects that preserve underrepresented historic 
sites that raise awareness, bring economic, cultural, and social 
value to communities, and promote responsible tourism 
 ·Joining the Boom Supersonic T ravel Sustainability Council, a 
forum to forge relationships, exchange ideas with industry, the 
NGO sector, and experts, in developing solutions to define and 
build the future of sustainable travel
 ·Offsetting our carbon footprint associated with employee 
business travel, including third-party air, rail, and rental carsNew Life for Old Cards 
In 2019, we launched the first American Express Card manufactured mainly from reclaimed plastic 
collected from oceans and coasts. At the same time, we launched a program enabling US Card 
Members to return expired or non-working cards for recycling. Since the launch of the US program, 
which also encompasses cards sent back to us by other means, such as non-delivered mail, we’ve 
recycled more than 920,000 cards. In summer 2021, we launched our first card made from recycled 
PVC in Canada. 
Promoting Responsible T ravel and Consumption
T ravel has been a key part of our heritage at American Express and we recognize the opportunity to play a role in promoting responsible 
travel and conscientious consumption. We continually explore new ways to deliver responsible products and services, help our customers 
make more informed decisions, and collaborate with our partners to promote sustainable innovation. Highlights from 2020 and 2021 
include:
American Express Ventures Supports Sustainable Air Travel 
In March 2021, American Express Ventures announced a strategic investment in Boom Supersonic, the aerospace 
company building the world’s fastest and most sustainable commercial airliner. Our backing will help fund 
the continued development of Boom’s flagship product, the Overture. Built on principles of speed, safety, and 
sustainability, Overture may be able to fly twice as fast as conventional jets and can run on up to 100% sustainable 
aviation fuel, including biofuels manufactured using renewable materials and other low-carbon fuel technologies. 
In 2021, we committed to piloting additional low-carbon product innovations, including new carbon tracking and offset solutions by the 
end of 2022. A proposed customer program expanding sustainability services for Card Members won our enterprise-wide Innovation 
Challenge in 2020 and is currently in development. 
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Climate 
SolutionsOperating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix•   62 ADVANCING CLIMATE SOLUTIONS
FOOTNOTES FOR ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE DATA SUMMARY ON PAGE 63
15.    FTE: Full-time Equivalent; $US M: Millions of dollars; ft2: Square Footage; tCO2e: Metric tons of Carbon Dioxide Equivalent; KgCO2: Kilograms of Carbon Dioxide 
Equivalent; MWh: Megawatt Hours; m3: Cubic Meters; Lbs.: Pound Weight.
16.  Building square footage includes all leased and owned facilities actively occupied by American Express (excluding parking lot square footage), which covers managed 
facilities, field sites, and data centers. Managed facilities are individual properties operationally managed by our global real estate team and housing critical business 
functions. Field sites are individual properties that are not operationally managed by our global real estate team but directly by our business units. These are typically 
smaller sites, less than 30,000 square feet (including airport lounges, foreign exchange kiosks, and sales offices) that are owned or leased by American Express.
17 . Green building certified square footage is the certified square footage of leased or owned facilities actively occupied by American Express (excluding parking lot 
square footage) that have achieved certification under a global or locally recognized third-party rating system criteria including LEED, BREEAM, NABERS, and 
GreenMark.
18. Energy usage is based on a combination of metered energy consumption billing data and estimated energy consumption data based on energy intensity per square 
footage standards outlined in the GHG Protocol where metered data is not currently available.
19. 238,081 MWh, 257 ,569 MWh, and 246,599 MWh of renewable energy attributes were applied to the 2020, 2019, and 2018 Scope 2 market-based emissions, 
respectively, resulting in 87 ,559 MtCO2e, 110,811 MtCO2e, and 109,751 MtCO2e emissions reductions.
20. Represents third-party air and rail travel and rental cars.
21. Water usage and waste generation and recycling data are reported only for managed facilities where measured data is available. Water usage for 2020 represents 
approximately 75% (5,699,723 ft2) and waste generation and recycling data for 2020 represents approximately 62% (4,679,278 ft2) of the globally managed office 
footprint in 2020.Partnering with Our Colleagues
Our colleagues are passionate about the environment and play a critical role in our sustainability initiatives. We partner with them on 
office-based and community programs through volunteer-led Green2Gether chapters and annual events such as Earth Week and Earth 
Hour. Green2Gether teams are led by sustainability-minded individuals who design events, such as recycling drives, lectures, community 
clean-ups, and awareness campaigns and encourage colleagues to participate. 
In 2020, we held our third annual Plant-A-T ree campaign in partnership with The Nature 
Conservancy’s Plant A Billion T rees campaign, incentivizing colleagues to engage virtually in return 
for the company planting a tree. From 2017 to 2020, we funded more than 110,000 new trees in 
managed forests around the world, including trees planted as a result of colleague engagement 
throughout Earth Month 2020. In 2021, we launched our largest virtual campaign yet, incentivizing 
colleagues to plant a tree by engaging online, volunteering or attending one of our Healthy Living 
events. During Earth Month, enough colleagues took part for us to plant an additional 100,000 trees 
with The Nature Conservancy over the coming year. 
Plant-A-Tree CampaignSUPPORTING PROGRAMS AND INITIATIVES  
TO HELP BUILD MORE RESILIENT AND 
EQUITABLE COMMUNITIES
We are committed to helping build more climate resilient and equitable communities. T o support this aim, we created a new goal to 
provide at least $10 million in support for initiatives, partnerships, and programs that address the adverse effects of climate change 
and pollution on communities by the end of 2025. In September 2021, we will open up grantmaking under a new philanthropic pillar, 
Sustaining Communities, to help fund community-led and other climate solutions. Additionally, we will continue to engage our colleagues 
in sustainability programs, initiatives, and volunteer opportunities through our Green2Gether program.  
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Climate 
SolutionsOperating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix•   63 ADVANCING CLIMATE SOLUTIONS
Unit152020 2019 2018
Employee headcount FTE 63,700 64,500 59,000
Annual revenue $US M $36,087 $43,556 $40,338
Building square footage16ft29,180,484 8,676,452 8,504,984
Green building square footage17  ft24,669,087 4,364,026 4,488,252
Energy18
Global direct energy consumption MWh 70,568 93,957 92,516
Natural gas MWh 8,941 16,881 16,711
Fuel oil MWh 853 2,021 3,241
Mobile fuel MWh 60,774 75,055 72,564
Global intermediate energy consumption MWh 241,630 283,031 270,449
Purchased electricity MWh 224,051 257 ,569 246,955
Purchased steam and chilled water MWh 1 7, 5 7 9 25,462 23,494
Global direct and intermediate energy consumption MWh 312,198 376,988 362,965
Global percent renewable electricity % 100% 100% 100%
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions
Scope 1 - Direct tCO2e 19,620 24,363 23,981
Scope 2 (location) - Indirect tCO2e 90,024 113,964 112,745
Scope 2 (market) - Indirect19tCO2e 2,464 3,153 2,994
Scope 3: Category 6 - Business Travel20tCO2e 5,513 51,679 47 ,285
T otal Emissions: Scope 1 & 2 (location)  tCO2e 109,643 138,327 136,726
T otal Emissions: Scope 1 & 2 (market) tCO2e 22,084 27 ,516 26,975
T otal Emissions: Scope 1, 2 (market), 
and 3 Category 6 tCO2e 2 7, 5 9 7 79,195 74,260
Verified carbon offset emission reductions tCO2e 28,017 80,914 75,970
Net Emissions: Scope 1, 2 (market), and 3 Category 
6 with purchased GHG emissions offsetstCO2e 0 0 0
Scope 1 & 2 (market) emissions per revenue tCO2e/$M 0.6 0.6 0.7
Scope 1 & 2 (market) emissions per 
building square footagekgCO2e/ft22.4 3.2 3.2
Scope 1 & 2 (market) emissions per 
employee headcounttCO2e/FTE 0.3 0.4 0.5
Global Water21
Global water usage m3263,686 591,220 609,310
Global Waste21
Waste generated tons 1,019 3,472 3,324
Waste recycled tons 526 1,309 1,075
Paper Use
Percent of direct marketing, customer 
communications, and office paper from  
certified responsibly managed forests% 95% 87% Not reported
CDP
Climate Change Questionnaire Score A- A B
Environmental Violations
Environmental violations Number 0 0 0
Environmental Performance Data Summary
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Climate 
SolutionsOperating 
ResponsiblyColleagues AppendixWE STRIVE TO HAVE THE BACKS OF OUR 
COLLEAGUES, CUSTOMERS, AND COMMUNITIES 
EVERY DAY AND HOLD OURSELVES TO THE 
HIGHEST STANDARDS OF ETHICS  
AND INTEGRITY. 
We maintain policies, procedures, and leadership oversight that we believe leads to sound 
governance, ethical business practices, robust risk management, and compliance with 
regulatory requirements. In 2020, we added two new values—We Embrace Diversity and 
We Stand for Inclusion—to the guiding principles at the heart of our culture. This section 
covers all these areas as well as our approach to data privacy and security and our 
responsible lending and procurement practices.OPERATING  
RESPONSIBLY
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  66
RISK MANAGEMENT  68
BUSINESS ETHICS  70
OPERATING A RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN  72
WE BACK OUR CUSTOMERS
Relationships are at the heart 
of our business. We strive to be 
essential to our customers by 
delivering exceptional products, 
services, and experiences every 
day—and promise to have their 
backs in everything we do.WE MAKE IT GREAT
We deliver an unparalleled standard 
of excellence in everything we do, 
staying focused on the biggest 
opportunities to be meaningful 
to our customers. From our 
innovative products to our world-
class customer service, our 
customers expect the best—and 
our teams are proud to deliver it.WE DO WHAT’S RIGHT
Customers choose us because 
they trust our brand and 
people. We earn that trust by 
ensuring everything we do is 
reliable, consistent, and with 
the highest level of integrity.
WE STAND FOR INCLUSION
We all have biases. However, we do not tolerate 
bias that excludes or minimizes anyone—all people 
belong. We’re committed to ensuring that we have 
a welcoming and inclusive culture where everyone’s 
voice matters and where people of all races, ethnicities, 
genders, gender identities, sexual orientations, ages, 
religions, disabilities, and viewpoints can thrive. WE SUPPORT OUR COMMUNITIES
We respect our communities and 
are committed to working together 
so they can thrive and make a 
meaningful difference in the world.WE RESPECT PEOPLE
We trust and respect one another 
for who we are and what we 
contribute. We are accountable to 
one another and empower every 
voice through open, courageous 
dialogue so others feel heard.WE EMBRACE DIVERSITY
We see diversity of people and 
experiences as fuel for the 
creativity and innovation we need 
to be and deliver our best.WE WIN AS A TEAM
We view each other as 
colleagues—part of the same 
team, striving to deliver the 
brand promise to our customers 
and to each other every day. 
Individual performance is 
essential and valued, but never 
at the expense of the team.Living Our Blue Box Values
Our Blue Box Values guide how we operate as a company and include the following 
principles that every colleague commits to embracing and working by each day. •   65 OPERATING RESPONSIBLY
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Climate 
SolutionsOperating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix•   66 OPERATING RESPONSIBLY
We understand that good governance can make our business stronger and we invest resources to maintain high standards of conduct. 
Our Corporate Governance Principles set the course for our ethical approach to business. These are regularly reviewed by our Board of 
Directors and management to ensure they remain appropriate in a fast-changing business environment and reflect our high standards 
and Blue Box Values. When recommending updates, the Board’s Nominating, Governance, and Public Responsibility Committee considers 
our shareholders’ views, as well as publicly available discourse on governance best practices.
Our Corporate Governance Principles, in addition to our Code of Conduct for colleagues, Code of Business Conduct for Directors, and 
the charters of our Board’s four standing committees make up our governance framework. Key focus areas include our Enterprise-Wide 
Risk Management Program (see page 68), Whistleblower Claims Policy (see page 71), commitment to transparent financial reporting, and 
strong internal checks and balances. Global management policies guide our day-to-day operations. 
We provide all colleagues with annual Global Regulatory Learning requirements on important policies, laws, and regulations that govern 
our industry, guide our company, and protect our colleagues, customers, and brand. The global 24/7 Amex Ethics Hotline empowers 
everyone we work with including colleagues, contractors, vendors, and suppliers, to raise ethical or compliance concerns (see page 72). 
Leading from the T op 
Our Board oversees and sets the tone for our commitment to operate responsibly. Its members 
represent a diverse group of leaders with substantial experience in their fields. In addition to the full 
Board, we have four standing committees whose members are all independent directors: Audit and 
Compliance; Compensation and Benefits; Nominating, Governance, and Public Responsibility; and Risk.
We frequently review our Board’s composition to identify relevant oversight and leadership skills  
needed for our company. In 2020-2021, we added five new Board members, combining fresh 
perspectives with the institutional knowledge of our longer-tenured directors. Knowledge transfers 
between newer and longstanding directors help our succession process as more members reach our 
mandatory Board retirement age of 72. 
In addition, diversity is another key consideration for the composition of our Board of Directors and 
refreshment process to ensure the right mix of skills, background, and perspectives are represented. 
When selecting nominees, our Nominating, Governance, and Public Responsibility Committee takes a holistic approach that considers 
gender, race, ethnicity, age, sexual orientation, and nationality and does not discriminate on any basis. Out of the 15 Board members, nine 
(60%) are from diverse backgrounds in terms of gender, race, and ethnicity, including five Black, one Hispanic, and four women members. 
For a breakdown of diversity metrics and tenure as of July 2021, see the Snapshot below.  
 
2021 BOARD OF DIRECTORS SNAPSHOT
9  White or 
Caucasian1 Hispanic or Latinx5  Black or  
African AmericanRacial/Ethnic Diversity1
Veteran Status1
2 Veteran
13 
Non-VeteranAge Diversity
1  >70 years10 60-70 years4  <60 yearsGender Diversity1
4  Women
11  Men
Average T enure
9 <5 years
3 5-10 years
3 >10 yearsIndependence
1 Non-Independent14 Independent
1.  Based on self-identified characteristics.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Climate 
SolutionsOperating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix•   67 OPERATING RESPONSIBLY
Compensating Our Leaders
Our executive compensation program is designed to support our company’s longevity and stability by driving long-term business outcomes, 
promoting strong governance practices, and encouraging responsible risk-taking. T o achieve these objectives, we link individuals’ pay to 
company performance on a diverse set of measures and timelines. Long-term incentives are designed to align executive compensation 
with the company’s long-term performance using equity-based awards over several years. The company scorecard incentivizes annual 
performance and includes key objectives in four categories: Shareholder, Customer, Colleague, and Strategic Imperatives. 
Executive compensation is also increasingly linked to our ESG goals. For example, the annual scorecard’s Colleague category includes 
diversity representation and talent retention metrics as part of the calculation to determine incentive compensation for all eligible 
colleagues. In 2021, we incorporated the management of key ESG priorities, including metrics, into our executive compensation program 
under the Strategic Imperatives category of our annual scorecard.
T o support strong oversight, our Board’s Compensation and Benefits Committee approves performance goals across our categories and 
certifies performance outcomes. For more information, see the Compensation Discussion & Analysis section of our 2021 Proxy Statement .  
ESG Governance
Our Board’s Nominating, Governance, and Public Responsibility Committee reviews our ESG Strategy and Corporate Social Responsibility 
(CSR) program, monitors progress against our goals, and provides guidance on our efforts. Our Executive Committee also reviews and 
evaluates ESG performance and long-term goals with support from our ESG Steering Committee, launched in 2020. Led by senior 
executives from across the company, the ESG Steering Committee developed the objectives and goals for our ESG Strategy, drawing on the 
expertise of cross-functional ESG Working Groups (see graphic below, and goals and objectives on pages 11-13 and in each report section).
Day to day, our CSR team works with colleagues throughout the company to shape our ESG programs and investments and monitor 
progress on key issues. For more information, see the Governance & Corporate Responsibility tab on our Investor Relations website . 
MISSION: BACK PEOPLE AND BUSINESSES TO THRIVE AND CREATE EQUITABLE, RESILIENT , AND SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES GLOBALLY
SOUND GOVERNANCE INCLUDING BUSINESS ETHICS, TRANSPARENCY, AND ACCOUNTABILITYSTAKEHOLDERS INCLUDING SHAREHOLDERS, COLLEAGUES, CUSTOMERS, AND COMMUNITIES
Key Pillars
Nominating, Governance, and Public Responsibility CommitteePROMOTE DIVERSITY, EQUITY, 
AND INCLUSION  
Support a diverse, equitable, and 
inclusive workforce, marketplace,  
and societyBUILD FINANCIAL CONFIDENCE  
Provide responsible, secure, and 
transparent products and services 
to help people and businesses build 
financial resilience
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
ESG WORKING GROUPSESG STEERING COMMITTEEADVANCE CLIMATE SOLUTIONS  
Enhance our operations and capabilities  
to meet customer and community needs 
in the transition to a low-carbon future
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Climate 
SolutionsOperating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix•   68 OPERATING RESPONSIBLY
OFFICE OF ENTERPRISE INCLUSION, DIVERSITY, AND BUSINESS ENGAGEMENT
In October 2020, we announced a $1 billion DE&I Action Plan containing goals and initiatives through 2024 to promote racial, ethnic, and 
gender equity for our colleagues, customers, and communities. Underlining the importance of this goal to our company and leadership, 
we established a new Office of Enterprise Inclusion, Diversity, and Business Engagement, reporting directly to the Chairman and CEO. 
This expert team guides the DE&I Action Plan’s rollout, partnering closely with our Executive Committee, Chief Colleague Inclusion and 
Diversity Officer, and Colleague Advisory Networks worldwide (see graphic below). 
Chairman and CEO
Colleague Advisory NetworksOffice of Enterprise Inclusion, Diversity, and Business Engagement
Brand  
Authentically build 
brand relevance 
and brand affinity 
for AmEx with 
Black, African 
American, Latinx, 
Asian, and LGBTQ+ 
communities, 
customers, and 
colleaguesCustomer  
Develop a holistic 
strategy across 
the Enterprise to 
strengthen our 
business with 
underrepresented 
minority groups and 
small businessesBusiness  
Develop a holistic 
strategy across 
the Enterprise to 
strengthen our 
business with 
underrepresented 
minority suppliers 
and investments in 
underrepresented 
minority businessesCommunity  
Combat systemic 
racism and 
promote equity 
and advancement 
through our 
community 
initiatives and 
charitable prioritiesCulture  
Become a company 
where explicit 
consideration of 
equity is integrated 
in everything we 
do to embody true 
inclusionColleague  
Create a culture that 
respects, values, and 
recognizes everyone 
by removing 
systemic barriers 
to achieve inclusion 
and advancement 
that drives company 
successKey Pillars
Planning effectively for a wide range of risks is essential to our business success and to keeping the trust of our customers, colleagues, 
and communities. From responsible lending practices to compliance, crisis preparedness, and data security, we believe we have robust 
global policies and programs in place.  
Our global Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program identifies, aggregates, monitors, and manages all risks to the business as well 
as establishing our risk appetite and risk governance processes, culture, and capabilities. Our Chief Risk Officer oversees the program’s 
execution and leads the Enterprise Risk Management Committee (ERMC), which oversees firmwide risk governance. As part of its remit, 
the ERMC monitors compliance with risk appetite limits, escalations, and resolution activities to provide awareness of changes in the 
risk profile and drives continuous improvement of risk management processes and controls. The ERMC also reviews key risk exposures, 
trends, and concentrations and significant compliance issues and propose steps to monitor, control, and report major risks. Our Board 
monitors our risk culture, including “tone at the top, ” as well as emerging strategic risks around the world. 
Risk management is overseen by our Board through three Board committees: Risk, Audit and Compliance, and Compensation and 
Benefits. Each committee consists entirely of independent directors and provides regular reports to the Board regarding matters reviewed 
at their committee. The committees meet regularly in executive sessions with our Chief Financial Officer, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate 
Secretary, Chief Risk Officer, Chief Compliance & Ethics Officer, Chief Audit Executive, and other members of senior management 
with regard to our risk management processes, controls, talents, and capabilities. For more detailed information on our Board, Board 
committees, and how management oversees risk, please refer to our 2021 Proxy Statement.
In 2020 and 2021, we also conducted a climate risk scenario analysis aligned to the TCFD framework to assess physical and transition 
risks related to climate change (see the TCFD Index on page 75).
For more information on Board and management risk oversight, see our 2021 Proxy Statement . RISK MANAGEMENT
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Climate 
SolutionsOperating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix•   69 OPERATING RESPONSIBLY
Preparing for Crises
We plan ahead for the continued operation of our business in the event of crisis situations. Our Crisis Preparedness Program focuses on 
colleague safety, as well as protocols to safeguard and minimize impacts to our buildings and assets. T o help leaders support colleagues 
worldwide during a variety of crisis scenarios, our Colleague Experience Group also maintains Global Crisis Management Employee Care 
Guidelines. Learn more about how we quickly adapted our business practices to navigate the COVID-19 pandemic on page 30.  
In addition, our comprehensive Enterprise Resilience program addresses the maintenance of key business operations and supporting 
technology in the event of an unplanned business disruption—including from climate change impacts. Our program experts formulate and 
test Business Continuity Plans and we provide colleagues responsible for these plans with tools, training, and guidance. In addition, we 
assess the resilience capabilities of key third-party service providers. Responsible Lending and Financing
As a responsible lender, with a strong focus on managing risk, we frequently evaluate our customers’ financial health and take 
actions as needed to manage their credit responsibly. Our aim is to accommodate the spending needs of our Card Members 
while providing appropriate borrowing capacity. 
No single factor determines our credit decisions. For consumer accounts, we look at credit payment history, reported income, 
overall debt level compared to financial resources, and credit bureau scores. For commercial clients, we consider financial 
information, size, and available commercial bureau reports, as well as consumer credit bureau information for small business 
accounts. These safeguards help us responsibly manage both our own credit exposure and potential risk to our customers. We 
also strive to provide credit models that promote fair lending outcomes through careful design and monitoring and colleague 
training.
Our key financing and investment activities are summarized below. For more on our responsible approach to products, see 
Lending and Marketing Responsibly, on page 44.  
AMERICAN EXPRESS NATIONAL BANK 
AENB is our bank subsidiary in the United States. It connects consumer and small business customers with 
payment, financing, and savings products while ensuring safe and sound banking operations.
INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES  
Almost all the investment securities on the American Express Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2020, 
represented U.S. T reasuries backed by the federal government. American Express Ventures is a corporate venture group 
investing and partnering with US and international start-ups to accelerate innovation for consumers and businesses 
around the world. Since 2011, American Express Ventures has invested in more than 70 start-ups to enhance our 
enterprise capabilities and shape the future of commerce, payments, fraud prevention, data analytics, and security.
FINANCING ACTIVITIES 
We have a long history of supporting inclusion and diversity through our capital markets funding program. In 2020 
and 2021, three Minority- and Women-Owned Business Enterprises (MWBEs) were engaged in connection with a 
preferred share offering and our share repurchase program.  
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Climate 
SolutionsOperating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix•   70 OPERATING RESPONSIBLY
Safeguarding Data and Protecting Privacy
Protecting our corporate, customer, and colleague information is a top priority for us. With cybersecurity threats including ransomware 
attacks on the rise, we continue to enhance our global security measures. 
American Express has prospered for more than 170 years by embracing innovation while remaining true to core guiding values. Every 
colleague who works for us commits to working by these eight principles, known today as our Blue Box Values (see page 65). Each one is 
essential to help us lead with purpose. 
In 2020, we added two new values—We Embrace Diversity and We Stand for Inclusion. We believe that diverse, equitable, and inclusive 
workplaces make businesses stronger, including our own. Our culture is known as welcoming and inclusive, where everyone can thrive, and 
we expect these values to deepen our commitment to building a supportive environment. For more on our commitment to advancing DE&I 
in our workplace and society, see Backing Our Colleagues (page 18), Backing Our Customers (page 34), Backing Our Communities (page 
45), and our DE&I Progress Report , published in May 2021.  
On a daily basis, the following global policies and commitments guide our colleagues’ behavior and govern how we hold ourselves 
accountable to the highest legal, ethical, and operational standards. BUSINESS ETHICS
at least twice a year, including at least one joint meeting with the Audit and Compliance Committee. The full Board and committees all 
receive ad hoc updates as needed and the Risk Committee annually approves the company’s Information Security Program. Learn more 
about Board oversight of information and cybersecurity in our 2021 Proxy Statement .  
Our Privacy Organization focuses on maintaining data about colleagues and existing and potential customers in line with our Data 
Protection and Privacy Principles. Its work includes managing how we collect and handle personal data, as well as processes for customer 
notification and privacy choices, data quality, data transfers, and data access. 
RESPONSIBLE DIGITALIZATION AND USE OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
We are committed to using digital technologies such as artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning responsibly and ethically. Our 
Global Risk and Compliance T eam oversees our policies and processes related to these fast-developing areas.
For more information, see Safeguarding Customer Privacy and Security on page 43 as well as our 2021 Proxy Statement , 2020 Annual 
Report , and Privacy Center webpage. Our Enterprise Information Security Program and Operating Model is designed to identify risks 
and protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information and information systems. 
Security controls in our processes and technology are closely monitored by our dedicated 
security operations center, which combines cyber detection, response, and recovery capabilities. 
We follow the “three lines of defense” approach to risk management, which includes 
cybersecurity risk management. The first line comprises functions and management committees 
directly initiating risk taking, the second comprises independent functions overseeing risk-
taking activities of the first line, and the third, overseen by our Internal Audit Group, provides 
independent assessments and effective challenge of the first and second lines of defense. We 
also have a cybersecurity governance framework in place to combat bad actors. Our internal 
teams report to the Board on cybersecurity at least once a year and to our Risk Committee 
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Climate 
SolutionsOperating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix•   71 OPERATING RESPONSIBLY
Anti-Bribery and 
CorruptionWe have a zero-tolerance policy for bribery. All colleagues must complete anti-corruption and bribery 
training tied to their annual compensation that includes information on applicable laws and regulations for 
their location.
Anti-Money LaunderingOur global policy details our approach to preventing money laundering and related financial crimes. 
Colleagues receive regular training to review our policies and requirements, relevant laws, and their role in 
recognizing and reporting unusual behavior. 
Code of ConductOur Code of Conduct is our manual for informing colleagues of the workplace behaviors we expect. It covers 
ethical business practices ranging from anti-corruption to technology use, conflicts of interest, conducting 
business with foreign governments, and protecting customer privacy (see page 72). 
Equal Employment 
Opportunity (EEO)We are committed to equal employment opportunities for all individuals. We make hiring decisions based on 
job-related qualifications and ability to perform the job without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national 
origin, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability, genetic information, citizenship, marital status, or any 
other basis prohibited by law. Our policies prohibit harassment of colleagues and contractors by co-workers, 
supervisors, or outsiders and such behavior may trigger disciplinary action, including loss of employment or 
contract. We also enforce a Global Sexual Harassment Policy Statement.  
Human RightsWe promote human rights and are committed to responsible workplace practices and protecting the human 
rights of people working throughout our supply chain. Our Human Rights Statement and Code of Conduct 
express our commitment to fair and equal treatment of all people. We guard against incidents of modern 
slavery and human trafficking within our business and supply chain by conducting employment checks and 
by working with suppliers that meet high standards of conduct (see pages 72-73). See also our UK Modern 
Slavery Act T ransparency Statement and Australia Modern Slavery Statement . 
Public Policy Engagement 
and Political ContributionsWe believe active engagement in the public policy arena is vital to the democratic process and an 
important part of responsible corporate citizenship. We are transparent about our policy engagement with 
governments, including through Lobbying Disclosure Act filings. We provide our perspective to officials at 
various government levels worldwide and collaborate with trade and industry associations.  
For more information, including lobbying requirements and our semiannual reporting of US political 
contributions, see our Political Contributions Report . 
Responsible MarketingOur marketing programs go through multiple layers of review across business units so that our customers 
may be well informed, in a responsible manner, about our products and services. Learn more in Backing Our 
Customers (see page 34). 
TaxationWe carefully consider our taxation positions so that they are consistent with our overall tax strategy, 
broader corporate governance requirements, applicable laws, and corporate values. We engage with tax 
authorities globally with openness and integrity to support compliance with our tax obligations. We are a 
current taxpayer both within and outside of the United States. For more information on taxation, see our 
2020 Annual Report . 
Whistleblower  
Claims PolicyOur Whistleblower Claims Policy allows colleagues, contractors, customers, merchants, and others 
to report allegations in good faith without fear of retaliation or risk to their employment. Claims are 
investigated and recommendations are made by the Colleague Experience Group, Internal Audit Group,  
and Global Security, in consultation with GCO, as appropriate.
Key Policies
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Climate 
SolutionsOperating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix•   72 OPERATING RESPONSIBLY
Living by Our Code of Conduct
Our Code of Conduct establishes our expectations for ethical workplace behavior. It provides 
guidance on sensitive business practices including anti-corruption, gift giving, expenses, prevention 
of money laundering, appropriate technology use, understanding conflicts of interest, conducting 
business with foreign governments, and protecting customer privacy. Colleagues must abide by its 
terms as a condition of working for us, and violations can result in termination. The Code is published 
in nine languages and all colleagues must take and certify annual training on its provisions. We also 
require colleagues to list all existing and potential conflicts of interest each year and promptly update 
these disclosures if their circumstances change.
We use a separate Code of Business Conduct for members of our Board of Directors, which fosters a 
culture of openness and accountability at the top of the company. Signed each year by the directors, 
it provides guidance on appropriate conduct, conflicts of interest, and other ethical concerns as well 
as mechanisms to report potential breaches. 
The global Amex Ethics Hotline is available online and by phone 24/7 for colleagues, contractors, vendors, suppliers, and others to raise 
ethical or compliance concerns. It is staffed by representatives who between them speak more than 200 languages. We encourage 
colleagues and others we work with to trust their instincts and feel comfortable in raising concerns. Allegations typically relate to 
workplace conduct and/or suspected breaches of our Code of Conduct in areas such as financial reporting and accounting, corruption, 
fraud, or other criminal activity. An independent organization hosts the hotline and reporters can provide information confidentially or 
anonymously where local laws allow. Specially trained individuals at American Express promptly review all concerns raised and investigate 
further when appropriate.
We seek to provide the world’s best customer experience including by relying on services provided by thousands of suppliers worldwide. 
We manage these vendors through our Global Supply Management team with a focus on meeting regulatory requirements, managing risk 
across our global relationships, and enhancing product and service offerings. In selecting and managing suppliers, we use appropriate 
due diligence and contracting requirements depending on the relationship. All suppliers are risk assessed and where applicable, subject to 
ongoing monitoring and oversight to ensure they follow our standards, requirements, and policies.
We do our best to source environmentally and socially responsible products and services where possible from approved third-party 
vendors. For example, in 2019, we set a goal to source 100% of our direct marketing, customer communications, and office paper by 2025 
from forests that are certified as responsibly managed. Learn more in Advancing Climate Solutions (page 54).
T o ensure a reliable and sustainable supply chain, even when disruptive events occur, we require vendors that provide business critical 
services to maintain both Business Continuity Plans and Exit Plans. The latter lay out alternatives to transition to a different supplier 
or bring products or services “in-house” if existing suppliers are unable to continue. In 2020, during the global disruption triggered by 
COVID-19, we adapted our requirements for some essential suppliers including giving permission to work from home. OPERATING A RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Climate 
SolutionsOperating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix•   73 OPERATING RESPONSIBLY
Supporting Supplier Diversity
We want to ensure that our supply chain is as diverse as the customers and communities we serve around the world. Doing business with 
suppliers that bring different perspectives also helps our business by generating fresh ideas and innovative solutions. 
In 2020, we spent more than $374 million on services provided by diverse and minority-owned suppliers in the United States, a 7% 
increase over 2019. This included $41 million in spending with Black-owned suppliers, a 17% increase over 2019. In October 2020, we 
raised our ambition in this area by committing to doubling our annual spend with diverse and minority-owned suppliers in the US from 
a 2019 baseline to $750 million a year by the end of 2024. This included a goal to increase spend with Black-owned suppliers to at least 
$100 million annually by the end of 2024. 
We introduced more than 50 new diverse suppliers to grow our program, and to build on this progress, our procurement team is required 
to consider at least one diverse vendor for each request for proposal. T o expand our supplier diversity reach, we track and measure our 
annual spend with certified business enterprises run by underrepresented owners and operators, including: 
We also partner with Supplier Diversity Councils and other prominent advocacy groups (see box below) whose expertise and networks 
help us to improve our outreach to diverse suppliers. ·Minority-Owned Business Enterprises
 ·Women-Owned Business Enterprises
 ·LGBTQ+ Business Enterprises ·8(a)/HUBZone-certified firms
 ·Disadvantaged or Disability-Owned Business Enterprises
 ·Veteran-Owned Business Enterprises
Our Supplier Diversity Partners
 ·National Minority Supplier Development 
Council
 ·U.S. Black Chambers
 ·Women’s Business Enterprise National Council
 ·National LGBT Chamber of Commerce ·WEConnect International
 ·Financial Services Roundtable for  
Supplier Diversity
 ·Minority Supplier Development UK
 ·Supply Nation Protecting Human Rights
We are committed to protecting the human rights of people working throughout our supply chain and we partner with suppliers who 
share our values. Firms that provide us with goods or services must conduct business in accordance with all applicable laws, rules, and 
regulations, as well as meet our own standards of integrity, transparency, and ethics.  
Our Global Supply Management team seeks to use suppliers whenever possible from its 
comprehensive Approved Supplier List. In addition, our comprehensive Risk Management Process 
includes screening suppliers that trigger key risks to make sure that they have all the required 
business licenses and adequate Code of Conduct, background checks, and compliance policies. This 
due diligence reduces the risk of unethical practices entering our supply chain. 
Our Human Rights Statement and Code of Conduct embody our commitment to fair and equal 
treatment of all people. In 2020, American Express Australia issued its first Reconciliation Action 
Plan,  which builds on our global commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion by reflecting, 
celebrating, and supporting the role that Aboriginal and T orres Strait Islander peoples play in the 
country.
Learn more about our Reconciliation Action Plan in our 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report for Australia and New Zealand and 
view our UK Modern Slavery Act T ransparency Statement and Australia Modern Slavery Statement .
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Climate 
SolutionsOperating 
ResponsiblyColleagues AppendixAPPENDIX
TCFD INDEX  75
SASB INDEX 79
GRI CONTENT INDEX  82 
LIMITED ASSURANCE STATEMENT OF GHG EMISSIONS  87
American Express T ask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD) Index  
The Financial Stability Board (FSB), comprised of members of the G20, established the TCFD to develop recommendations for more 
effective climate-related disclosures. As part of our commitment to climate action, American Express reports annually in line with the 
TCFD recommendations. The table below summarizes our approach to climate-related governance, strategy, risk management, and 
metrics and targets. It also discloses the outcomes from the qualitative climate risk scenario analyses we performed in 2020 and 2021 to 
assess physical and transition risks to our business related to climate change. In 2021, we became a formal TCFD Supporter, joining over 
2,500 organizations taking action to build a more resilient financial system through transparent, climate-related disclosure. For additional 
resources, refer to the Advancing Climate Solutions section of this report starting on page 54  and CDP Climate Change Questionnaire . •   75 TCFD INDEX
TCFD Recommendation Disclosure
GOVERNANCE
a) Describe the board’s 
oversight of climate-
related risks and 
opportunitiesThe Nominating, Governance, and Public Responsibility Committee (NGPRC) of American Express’ 
Board of Directors has the primary responsibility of ESG matters, including climate-related issues. The 
NGPRC is comprised solely of independent directors and reviews our ESG strategy and Corporate Social 
Responsibility program, monitors progress against ESG goals, and provides guidance on our efforts. The 
Chief Corporate Affairs Officer (CCAO), who sits on our Executive Committee, updates the NGPRC on 
ESG-related issues, progress, and performance. Additionally, climate-related risks are managed as part of 
our multidisciplinary enterprise risk management process. The Risk Committee of our Board of Directors 
provides oversight of the Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework, processes, and methodologies 
and approves our ERM Policy, which covers risk governance, oversight, and risk appetite including credit 
risk, market risk, operational risk, reputational risk, country risk, model risk, asset-liability management 
risk, and strategic and business risk. 
b) Describe management’s 
role in assessing and 
managing climate-related 
risks and opportunitiesExecutive leadership at American Express is directly involved in our ESG Strategy, which includes the 
management of climate-related risks and opportunities. Our Chief Corporate Affairs Officer (CCAO) oversees 
the Corporate Affairs & Communications (CA&C) Department and has direct responsibility for leading ESG 
and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives. The CCAO sits on the Executive Committee and reports 
directly to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. 
The ESG Steering Committee helps guide our ESG strategy and related policies and programs. Led by the 
CCAO, the cross-functional team includes senior executives from across the organization including the 
General Counsel’s Organization, Global Real Estate and Workplace Experience, Investor Relations, Global 
Compliance & Ethics, Strategic Partnerships, and others that meet at least once every quarter to discuss 
ESG topics and strategies to advance our ESG goals. In 2020, the steering committee established working 
groups focused on our three strategic ESG pillars, including Advance Climate Solutions, which is focused on 
developing climate-related goals and operational strategies to achieve our objectives. An additional working 
group focuses on ESG-related disclosures and we also formed a TCFD Working Group to evaluate physical and 
transition risks and opportunities identified in our assessment. 
The Office of CSR and ESG team within the CA&C Department is responsible for oversight and coordination of 
climate-related issues across the company. The team works closely with business units, including Global Real 
Estate and Workplace Experience, T echnology, and others, to monitor climate-related risks and opportunities, 
carbon reduction efforts, energy efficiency programs, and employee engagement. 
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Climate 
SolutionsOperating 
ResponsiblyColleagues AppendixTCFD INDEX•   76 TCFD INDEX
TCFD Recommendation Disclosure
STRATEGY
a) Describe the 
climate-related risks 
and opportunities the 
organization has identified 
over the short, medium, 
and long termAmerican Express takes a strategic approach to climate change impacts, considering the risks and 
opportunities across the short term (0-3 years), medium term (3-6 years), and long term (6-10+ years). In 
2020, we conducted qualitative analyses of current and potential climate-related physical and transition 
risks and opportunities to our operations, supply chain, and business activities.  
The qualitative climate-related physical risk assessment performed in 2020 evaluated potential acute and 
chronic risks and opportunities associated with the physical impacts of climate change on key operations 
across several time horizons including historic conditions (1990-2018) and medium-term (2035) and 
long-term (2060) projections. The potential physical risks included flooding due to sea level rise and 
extreme precipitation, cyclonic storm threats, drought, and extreme temperatures across the some of our 
critical sites. These threats could affect operations at our global headquarters, data centers, call centers, 
offices, tech operations, and third-party supplier card manufacturing sites. The qualitative climate-related 
transition risk analysis evaluated three scenarios from the International Energy Agency (IEA) to analyze 
the impact of transition risks on our company’s potential future revenues and costs between 2025 and 
2040. We assessed transition risks and opportunities associated with current and emerging regulations on 
carbon, technology advances to transition to a low-carbon future, and market and reputational risks. We 
identified potential short-, medium-, and long-term risks in a variety of areas including: current regulations 
and carbon pricing; emerging regulations related to enhanced emissions reporting requirements; shifting 
consumer preferences; reputational risks; increased operating costs; impacts to travel patterns; and 
geographic or location-based risks.
We identified climate-related opportunities in the short, medium, and long term that may have financial 
or strategic impacts on our business. These included reducing operating costs and environmental impact 
at our global facilities by improving energy, water, and resource efficiency, leveraging climate-related 
policies and tax incentives to expand on-site renewable energy, and developing new low-carbon products 
and services for customers. We have already made investments in research and development to respond 
to shifting consumer preferences and interest in low-carbon products and services. In 2019, we launched 
the first American Express Card made primarily from reclaimed plastic collected from oceans and coasts, 
which reduces GHG emissions and energy and water consumption during manufacture compared to virgin 
plastic. We also introduced our first Card T ake Back Program, which enables US Consumer, Small Business, 
and Corporate Card Members to send back expired or non-working Cards to American Express for proper 
recycling. T o date, we have recycled more than 920,000 Cards through the program in the US. We also 
expanded our Carbon Footprint Dashboard, making it available to certain corporate clients to help them 
quantify their carbon emissions from air and business travel spend. 
b) Describe the impact 
of climate-related risks 
and opportunities on the 
organization’s businesses, 
strategy, and financial 
planningClimate-related risks and opportunities inform our strategies and financial planning for our direct operations, 
products and services, and investments in research and development. 
For the qualitative climate-related physical risk analysis, we evaluated potential threats to critical business 
sites across our global operations both under historic conditions and applied to future climate projections 
from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s (IPCC), Representative Concentration Pathway (RCP) 
8.5 scenario. We evaluated threats and mitigation opportunities at select sites across our global operations, 
supply chain, and revenue sources. Each site was examined for seven potential risks from the physical 
impacts of climate change: 1) increasing temperatures; 2) sea level rise; 3) precipitation changes; 4) flooding;  
5) cyclonic events; 6) extended drought; and 7) extreme temperatures. 
For the qualitative climate-related transition risk analysis, we evaluated the impact of three future scenarios 
from the International Energy Agency (IEA), compatible with a 6°C, 2-3°C, and 2°C or lower pathway on 
countries essential to our business operations. The findings evaluated the impact of transition risks to 
our potential future revenues as well as costs associated with capital expenditures and capital allocation 
strategies over short and long-term horizons.
We have announced climate-related goals as part of our Advance Climate Solutions pillar in our 2020-2021 
ESG Report (page 13), which includes our goal to enhance the management of climate-related risks and 
opportunities across our business. Our operational strategy has been influenced by climate-related risks 
including those associated with emerging regulation on carbon pricing mechanisms that may increase 
operating costs, and acute and chronic physical risks that may increase our capital expenditures over 
short-, medium-, and long-term time horizons. We have identified opportunities to minimize these risks by 
maintaining carbon neutrality, continuing to invest in energy efficiency projects, onsite renewable electricity 
generation, and renewable Energy Attribute Certificates (EACs), and maintaining our commitment to net-zero 
emissions by 2035. Across our value chain, climate-related risks and opportunities exist through innovation 
and investments in research and development for our products and services to address shifts in consumer 
preferences and interest for low-carbon products and services. T o further integrate opportunities into our 
strategy and financial planning, we have a goal to pilot low-carbon innovations by the end of 2022, including 
carbon tracking and offset solutions for customers. 
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Climate 
SolutionsOperating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix•   77 TCFD INDEX
TCFD Recommendation Disclosure
STRATEGY
c) Describe the resilience 
of the organization’s 
strategy, taking into 
consideration different 
climate-related scenarios, 
including a 2 degree 
Celsius or lower scenarioOur qualitative climate risk scenario analysis, ESG governance, Advance Climate Solutions strategy 
roadmap, and new climate-related goals demonstrate progress on our approach to enhance climate risk 
management and scenario analysis across our organization.  We aim to proactively identify and respond 
to climate-related risks and opportunities and support our customers and communities to develop the 
capacity to prepare for and respond to future changes as a result of climate change. We leverage science-
based frameworks including the IPCC and IEA, to inform our climate-related risk identification process 
across short-, medium-, and long-term horizons. We are committed to net-zero emissions by 2035 in 
alignment with the Science Based T argets initiative (SBTi) and selected a goal to align with reducing 
emissions to limit global warming to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels.  
RISK MANAGEMENT
a) Describe the 
organization’s processes 
for identifying and 
assessing climate-related 
risksT o identify and assess climate-related risks we conducted qualitative climate-related physical and 
transition risk and opportunity assessments to understand the current and potential impacts of climate 
change to our direct business operations, supply chain, markets, and financial activities. For climate-related 
risks we consider current and emerging regulations, technology, legal, and reputational risks and included 
qualitative factors such as disruptions to our operations, impacts on our colleagues, and damage to our 
brand. Looking ahead, we plan to conduct a quantitative physical risk scenario analysis to manage physical 
risks.
b) Describe the 
organization’s processes 
for managing climate-
related risksClimate-related risks are managed as part of our multidisciplinary enterprise risk management process. 
Enterprise risk management is overseen by our Board of Directors through its Risk Committee, Audit 
and Compliance Committee, and Compensation and Benefits Committee, which are comprised entirely 
of independent directors and provide regular reports to the full Board regarding matters reviewed by 
the committees. These three committees meet regularly with our Chief Risk Officer, Chief Compliance 
and Ethics Officer, the Chief Audit Executive, and other senior management with regards to our risk 
management processes, controls, talent, and capabilities to monitor our risk culture and emerging 
and strategic risks. Additionally, the ESG Steering Committee and Advance Climate Solutions Working 
Group, comprised of senior leaders across the organization, consider climate-related risks in connection 
with developing climate-related goals and operational strategies to achieve our objectives. In 2020, we 
conducted a materiality assessment to identify priority environmental, social, and governance issues for 
our business with input from internal and external stakeholders. As a result of this process, we ranked 20 
priority ESG issues in order of importance to our stakeholders and our degree of control and influence. Key 
issues identified included climate change, energy, and GHG emissions, data privacy and security, financial 
resiliency, community resiliency, colleague health and safety, and social and environmental innovation. 
c) Describe how processes 
for identifying, assessing, 
and managing climate-
related risks are integrated 
into the organization’s 
overall risk managementThe ESG Steering Committee and ESG Working Groups comprised of senior leadership discuss ESG topics 
and climate-related risks, opportunities, and strategies to advance our ESG goals.  
Physical climate-related risks and opportunities are primarily managed by our Global Real Estate and 
Workplace Experience and T echnology teams. Operational risks, including extreme weather events and 
natural disasters, are identified and measured for severity as part of our business continuity planning and 
process. Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity Plans are developed and updated regularly to ensure 
steps are in place to identify and respond before, during, and after a service continuity event. Our facility 
and data center teams review these established procedures and controls, test them annually, and certify 
key equipment and systems operations to ensure uninterrupted operation of our data centers during 
localized weather events. Our facility infrastructure is monitored 24/7 and test results are tracked and 
reported. Our US-based data center facilities are ISO-certified to ensure that environmental risks and/or 
opportunities are identified and prioritized.
T ransition risks and opportunities, including current and emerging regulations, disclosure requirements, 
legal and reputational risks, and customer requirements are considered by, among others, our Global Real 
Estate and Workplace Experience team, Global Risk and Compliance, our General Counsel’s Organization, 
Finance, T echnology, CA&C, and CSR. 
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Climate 
SolutionsOperating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix•   78 TCFD INDEX
TCFD Recommendation Disclosure
METRICS & TARGETS
a) Disclose the metrics 
used by the organization 
to assess climate-related 
risks and opportunities in 
line with its strategy and 
risk management processAmerican Express tracks metrics to assess climate-related risks and opportunities including total GHG 
emissions, energy and water consumption, purchased and on-site renewable electricity, waste, and green 
building certifications. For multi-year trends in our metrics, see the Environmental Performance Data 
Summary section of our 2020-2021 ESG Report (page 63).
b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 
2, and, if appropriate, 
Scope 3 GHG emissions, 
and the related risksWe track and disclose our Scopes 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions on an annual basis. Emissions are calculated 
in alignment with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and third-party verified using the ISO14064-3 standard. 
T o neutralize the carbon footprint of our facilities, we continue to purchase renewable Energy Attribute 
Certificates (EACs) and installed rooftop solar panels to power our data center in North Carolina. Since 
2018, we have been certified by CarbonNeutral®, a leading third-party framework. Please refer to our 2020-
2021 ESG Report for our Scopes 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions data for 2020, 2019, and 2018, located in the 
Environmental Performance Data Summary section (page 63).
c) Describe the targets 
used by the organization 
to manage climate-related 
risks and opportunities 
and performance against 
targetsWe aim to minimize the impact of our operations on the environment and climate. In 2019, we set 
environmental performance goals to reduce energy, water, and waste across our global operations, power 
our operations with renewable electricity, remain CarbonNeutral®, source responsibly, remove single-use 
plastics, and achieve green building certifications. Additionally, in 2020, we joined RE100, a global coalition 
of leading businesses that champion 100% renewable electricity. In 2020 and 2021, we developed goals 
across our ESG strategy’s three pillars: Promote Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion; Build Financial Confidence; 
and Advance Climate Solutions.  We established strategic objectives and corresponding goals to minimize 
our climate impact, manage our climate-related risks and opportunities, enable our customers and partners 
to transition to a low-carbon economy through the development of new capabilities across our company, 
and support community programs and initiatives to help build more climate resilient and equitable 
communities. In 2021, we formally committed to the Science Based T argets initiative to set goals aligned 
with the goal to limit global warming to 1.5°C.  
American Express has set the following climate-related goals: 
 ·Commit to net-zero emissions by 2035, in alignment with the Science Based T argets initiative (SBTi).
 ·Pilot low carbon product innovations, including carbon offset and tracking solutions by the end of 2022.
 ·Remain carbon neutral across our operations and employee business travel.1  
 ·Continue to power our operations with 100% renewable electricity.2  
 ·Reduce energy use by 35% across our global managed facilities compared to a 2011 baseline by 2025.3 
 ·Reduce water use from our managed facilities by 10% per colleague compared to a 2019 baseline by 2025.3
 ·Reduce waste generated from our managed facilities by 10% per colleague compared to a 2019 baseline by 
2025.3 
 ·Divert 60% of office waste generated from our managed facilities away from landfills by 2025.4  
 ·Eliminate single-use plastics across our operations by 2025.
 ·Source 100% of our direct marketing, customer communications, and office paper from certified 
responsibly managed forests by 2025.
 ·Achieve green building certifications for 60% of our operations by 2025.5
Refer to our 2020-2021 ESG Report for performance and progress against these goals.
1. Operations include all our managed facilities, field sites, and data centers. Managed facilities are individual properties operationally managed by our Global Real 
Estate team and housing critical business functions. Field sites are individual properties that are not operationally managed by our global real estate team but directly 
by our business. They are typically smaller sites less than 30,000 square feet (including airport lounges, foreign exchange kiosks, and sales offices) that are owned or 
leased by American Express. The company’s zero net carbon emissions commitment covers Scope 1 (direct emissions from sources owned or controlled by American 
Express), Scope 2 (indirect location-based and market-based emissions), and Scope 3 emissions (Waste and employee business travel, including third-party air, rail, 
and rental cars), through renewable energy credits, carbon offset, and reduced GHG emissions.
2. Across our global managed facilities, field sites, and data centers.
3. Measurement is based only on managed facilities where metered and/or measured data is available; per colleague employee goals based on number of employees 
assigned located in such managed facilities. Reduction in energy, water, and waste usage is partially due to reduced overall demand related to COVID-19 work-from-
home arrangements. Energy, water, and waste usage is expected to increase as more colleagues return to office.
4. Measurement is based only on managed facilities where metered and/or measured data is available; per colleague goals based on number of colleagues located in 
such managed facilities.
5. Green building certified percentage is represented by the total square footage of leased or owned facilities actively occupied by American Express (excluding parking 
lot square footage) certified under a global or locally recognized third-party environmental building rating system as meeting their performance criteria (LEED, 
BREEAM, NABERS, and GreenMark).
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Climate 
SolutionsOperating 
ResponsiblyColleagues AppendixSASB Topic Accounting Metric Code Response
Business 
EthicsT otal amount of monetary losses as a 
result of legal proceedings associated 
with fraud, insider trading, anti-trust, 
anti-competitive behavior, market 
manipulation, malpractice, or other related 
financial industry laws or regulationsFN-CB-510a.1 Form 10-K  on page 130: Note 12: 
Contingencies and Commitments
Description of whistleblower 
policies and proceduresFN-CB-510a.2 2020-2021 ESG Report: Key Policies on page 71  
and American Express AEMP17 – Whistleblower 
Claims Policy on our website
Customer 
PrivacyNumber of account holders whose 
information is used for secondary purposesFN-CF-220a.1 
TC-SI-220a.2American Express does not report a metric on the 
bases specified in the standard. American Express’s 
Privacy Policy describes the information we collect 
from our customers and how we use it.
T otal amount of monetary losses 
as a result of legal proceedings 
associated with customer privacyFN-CF-220a.2 
TC-SI-220a.3American Express discloses all material 
legal proceedings in our SEC reports. 
Data Privacy 
and Freedom 
of ExpressionDescription of policies and 
practices relating to behavioral 
advertising and user privacyTC-SI-220a.1 2020-2021 ESG Report: Safeguarding Customer 
Privacy and Security on page 43, Safeguarding 
Data and Protecting Privacy on page 70, and 
Privacy Disclosures section of our website
Data Security (1) Number of data breaches, (2) 
percentage involving personally 
identifiable information (PII), (3) 
number of account holders affectedFN-CF-230a.1 
FN-CB-230a.1 
TC-SI-230a.1American Express’ information and cyber security program 
is built upon a foundation of advanced security technology, 
a well-staffed and highly trained team of experts, and 
robust operations based on the National Institute of 
Standards and T echnology Cybersecurity Framework. This 
consists of controls designed to identify, protect, detect, 
respond, and recover from information and cybersecurity 
incidents. American Express does not report a metric on 
the bases specified in the standard, but information on 
cybersecurity regulation, risks, and risk management can 
be found in Form 10-K  on pages 18, 23-24, 29-30, 34, 75.
Card-related fraud losses from (1) 
card-not-present fraud and (2) 
card-present and other fraudFN-CF-230a.2 Card Member and merchant-related fraud losses are 
included within Other expense, the details for which 
are provided in Form 10-K  on page 144: Note 18: Other 
Fees and Commissions and Other Expenses.
Description of approach to identifying 
and addressing data security risksFN-CF-230a.3 
FN-CB-230a.2 
TC-SI-230a.22020-2021 ESG Report: Safeguarding Customer 
Privacy and Security on page 43, Safeguarding 
Data and Protecting Privacy on page 70, and 
Privacy Disclosures section of our website. •   79 SASB INDEX
American Express Sustainability Accounting Standards Board  
(SASB) Index  
This Index reflects our report in accordance with Industry Standards Version 2018-10 issued by the Sustainability Accounting Standards 
Board (SASB). Our disclosures under those standards are based on three SICS industries that are most closely aligned with our mix of 
businesses: Consumer Finance (FN-CF), Commercial Banks (FN-CB), and Software and IT Services (TC-SI). Unless otherwise noted, all data 
and descriptions are reported for the American Express Company on a consolidated basis where applicable and not just the businesses or 
segments relevant to a particular industry. We do not currently disclose all metrics included in the standards for these three SICS industries 
but will continue to evaluate them in the future. Our commitment is to provide investors with useful, relevant, and meaningful sustainability 
information and we may evolve our disclosures on these SASB topics over time. All reported data is as of and for the year ended December 
31, 2020, unless otherwise noted. While most information is found in our 2020-2021 ESG Report, other primary sources include our 2020 
Annual Report on Form 10-K, 2021 Proxy Statement , 2021 CDP Climate Change Response , and our corporate website .SASB INDEX
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Climate 
SolutionsOperating 
ResponsiblyColleagues AppendixEnvironmental 
Footprint of 
Hardware 
Infrastructure(1) T otal energy consumed, (2) percentage 
grid electricity, (3) percentage renewableTC-SI-330a.4 2020-2021 ESG Report: Environmental Performance 
Data Summary on page 63. (1) T otal energy 
consumed: 312,198 MWh; (2) T otal Percentage Grid 
Electricity: 72%; (3) Percentage renewable electricity: 
100%, Percentage of renewable energy: 72%
Discussion of the integration of 
environmental considerations into 
strategic planning for data center needsTC-SI-330a.5 2020-2021 ESG Report: Maintaining Carbon 
Neutral Operations page 59
Financial 
Inclusion 
and Capacity 
BuildingNumber of participants in financial 
literacy initiatives for unbanked, 
underbanked, or underserved customersFN-CB-240a.4 Financial literacy programs and initiatives are disclosed in our 
2020-2021 ESG Report: Empowering Consumers on pages 
40-41.  In fall 2021, we announced two new goals including 
(1) to provide access to credit to at least 4 million individuals 
from underserved or underrepresented populations 
from 2021 to 2025 and (2) to provide at least 5 million 
individuals with tools, resources, and educational content 
to improve financial well-being from 2021 through 2025.
(1) Number and (2) amount of loans 
outstanding qualified to programs 
designed to promote small business 
and community developmentFN-CB-240a.1 American Express engages in programs designed to 
support small businesses and community development. In 
2021, American Express pledged $40 million to the Accion 
Opportunity Fund to expand its loan program for historically 
underfunded US small business owners, including people of 
color and women. In 2020, The American Express Center for 
Community Development (CCD) underwrote more than $275 
million in loans and investments which laid the foundations 
for more than 1,700 units of affordable housing. See 2020-
2021 ESG Report: Strengthening Small Businesses on pages 
37-39 and Building Financial Confidence on page 51. 
Incorporation 
of 
Environmental, 
Social, and 
Governance 
Factors in 
Credit AnalysisDescription of approach to incorporation 
of environmental, social, and governance 
(ESG) factors in credit analysisFN-CB-410a.2 2020-2021 ESG Report: Lending and Marketing 
Responsibly on page 44 and Responsible 
Lending and Financing on page 69
Recruiting and 
Managing a 
Global, Diverse, 
and Skilled 
WorkforceEmployee engagement as a percentage TC-SI-330a.2 We engage our colleagues regularly, including through 
initiatives and an annual internal colleague survey. The 
Annual Colleague Experience Survey results indicate 
that 94% of colleagues who participated said they would 
recommend American Express as a great place to work. 
See 2020-2021 ESG Report: Backing Our Colleagues: 
Engaging Colleagues on Diversity and Inclusion on page 
29, Helping Colleagues Build Financial Confidence on page 
31, Fostering Personal and Professional Growth on page 32 
and Improving our Colleagues’ Experience on page 20.    
Percentage of gender and racial/ 
ethnic group representation for (1) 
management, (2) technical staff, 
and (3) all other employeesTC-SI-330a.3 2020-2021 ESG Report: 2020 Global Workforce 
Representation on pages 22-25 and 2020 EEO-1 Data  
on page 25
Selling 
PracticesPercentage of total remuneration 
for covered employees that is 
variable and linked to the amount 
of products and services soldFN-CF-270a.1 An explanation of our compensation programs can be found 
in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis section of 
our 2021 Proxy Statement on pages 49-81; information 
on our stock option and award programs can be found 
in Form-10K  on pages 127-128: Note 10: Stock Plans.SASB Topic Accounting Metric Code Response•   80 SASB INDEX
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Climate 
SolutionsOperating 
ResponsiblyColleagues AppendixSelling 
PracticesApproval rate for (1) credit and (2) 
pre-paid products for applicants with 
FICO scores above and below 660FN-CF-270a.2 American Express has a global Card Member base and FICO 
scores are not available in all regions or for all customer 
types. See 2020-2021 ESG Report: Lending and Marketing 
Responsibly on page 44 and Responsible Lending and 
Financing on page 69 for an explanation of certain credit 
decision factors. For the composition of consumer American 
Express credit card accounts and Pay Over Time revolving 
credit features associated with certain American Express 
credit card accounts included in the American Express 
Credit Account Master T rust portfolio as of June 30, 2021, 
by FICO score ranges, see pages 7 to 8 of the American 
Express Credit Account Master T rust Current Report on Form 
8-K dated July 28, 2021. The Card Member loans that have 
been securitized through the T rust do not possess identical 
characteristics with those of the total US Consumer or US 
Small Business Card Member loan portfolios, which include 
securitized and non-securitized Card Member loans. 
(1) Number of complaints filed with the 
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 
(CFPB), (2) percentage with monetary 
or nonmonetary relief, (3) percentage 
disputed by consumer, (4) percentage  
that resulted in investigation by the CFPBFN-CF-270a.4 CFPB Consumer Complaint Database 
T otal amount of monetary losses as a 
result of legal proceedings associated 
with selling and servicing of productsFN-CF-270a.5 American Express discloses material legal and 
regulatory proceedings in Form-10K  on page 130: 
Note 12: Contingencies and Commitments.
Systemic Risk 
ManagementGlobal Systemically Important Bank 
(G-SIB) score, by categoryFN-CB-550a.1 National Information Center website – American 
Express Company RSSD ID: 1275216
Description of approach to incorporation 
of results of mandatory and voluntary 
stress tests into capital adequacy 
planning, long-term corporate strategy, 
and other business activitiesFN-CB-550a.2 Form-10K  on pages 13-14
Managing 
Systemic 
Risks from 
T echnology 
DisruptionsDescription of business continuity risks 
related to disruption of operationsTC-SI-550.a.2 Form-10K: Risk Factors on pages 23-24, 29
Activity 
MetricsNumber of unique consumers with 
an active (1) credit card account and 
(2) pre-paid debit card accountFN-CF-000.A (1) The number of basic cards-in-force worldwide 
and related information are provided in Form-
10K on pages 49, 56, 63. Definitions of this metric 
can be found on pages 84 of the Form-10K. 
(2) American Express does not report a metric 
for prepaid debit card accounts.    
Number of (1) credit card accounts 
and (2) pre-paid debit card accountsFN-CF-000.B (1) The number of basic and total cards-in-force 
worldwide and related information are provided in 
Form-10K  on pages 49, 56, 63. Definitions of these 
metrics can be found on page 84 of the Form 10-K.
(2) American Express does not report a metric 
for pre-paid debit card accounts.
(1) Number and (2) value of loans 
by segment: (a) personal, (b) small 
business, and (c) corporateFN-CB-000.B Form-10K: T able 7 , Selected Credit-Related Statistical 
Information on page 51, and in individual business unit 
segment results sections for Global Consumer Services Group 
on page 54 and Global Commercial Services on page 59.SASB Topic Accounting Metric Code Response•   81 SASB INDEX
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Climate 
SolutionsOperating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix•   82 GRI CONTENT INDEX
The 2020-2021 ESG Report references the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards Core Option. In addition, we included disclosures 
from the Financial Services Sector Supplement. The table below outlines the location of the information required for each disclosure. 
While most information is found in this report, other primary sources include our 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K, 2021 Proxy 
Statement , 2021 CDP Climate Change Response , and our corporate website .
Standard Code GRI Disclosure Reference/Location
GENERAL DISCLOSURES
GRI 102: 
General  
Disclosures 
(2016)102-1 Name of the organization American Express Company
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 2020-2021 ESG Report: About American Express page 7 ,  
Form 10-K Item 1  
102-3 Location of headquarters 200 Vesey Street  
New Y ork, NY 10285
102-4 Locations of operations 2020-2021 ESG Report: About American Express page 7 ,  
Form 10-K Item 2 
102-5 Ownership and legal form Form 10-K Item 1
102-6 Markets served 2020-2021 ESG Report: About American Express page 7 ,  
Form 10-K Item 1
102-7 Scale of the organization 2020-2021 ESG Report: About American Express page 7 ,  
Form 10-K Item 1
102-8 Information on employees and  
other workers2020-2021 ESG Report: About American Express page 7 , 
Backing Our Colleagues pages 18-32 
102-9 Supply chain 2020-2021 ESG Report: Operating a Responsible Supply 
Chain pages 72-73
102-10 Significant changes to the organization 
and its supply chainForm 10-K Item 1
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach We seek to identify and respond to issues that could impact 
our business, our partners, and our communities. We use our 
comprehensive Enterprise-wide Risk Management program to 
identify, aggregate, monitor, and manage risks. The program also 
defines our risk appetite, governance, culture, and capabilities.
102-12 External initiatives 2020-2021 ESG Report: ESG Partnerships page 16 
102-13 Membership of associations 2020-2021 ESG Report: ESG Partnerships page 16, American 
Express Political Contributions Report pages 6-7
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2020-2021 ESG Report: Letter from the Chairman and CEO 
pages 4-6
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 2020-2021 ESG Report: Our ESG Strategy and Governance 
Framework page 10, Setting Our Priorities page 14, Engaging 
Our Stakeholders page 15, Minimizing Our Climate Impact: 
Moving to Net Zero page 57 , the TCFD Index pages 75-78  
Form 10-K Item 1A   
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms 
of behavior2020-2021 ESG Report: Our ESG Strategy and Governance 
Framework page 10, Operating Responsibly pages 64-73, 
Corporate Governance Principles , Code of Conduct
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns 
about ethics2020-2021 ESG Report: Living by Our Code of Conduct page 
72,  Code of Conduct , Amex Ethics Hotline
102-18 Governance structure 2020-2021 ESG Report: Our ESG Strategy and Governance 
Framework page 10, 2021 Proxy Statement pages 6-33
102-19 Delegating authority 2020-2021 ESG Report: Our ESG Strategy and Governance  
Framework page 10GRI CONTENT INDEX 
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Climate 
SolutionsOperating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix•   83 GRI CONTENT INDEX
GRI 102: 
General  
Disclosures  
(2016)102-20 Executive-level responsibility for 
economic, environmental, and  
social topics2020-2021 ESG Report: Our ESG Strategy and Governance 
Framework on page 10, 2021 CDP Climate Change Response 
(C1)
102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, 
environmental, and social topics2020-2021 ESG Report: Engaging Our Stakeholders page 15, 
Setting Our Priorities page 14
102-22 Composition of the highest governance 
body and its committees2021 Proxy Statement pages 15-29
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 2021 Proxy Statement page 16.
102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest 
governance body2021 Proxy Statement pages 10, 19-22
102-25 Conflicts of interest 2021 Proxy Statement pages 23, 57
102-33 Communicating critical concerns 2020-2021 ESG Report: Living by Our Code of Conduct page 
72, Code of Conduct , Amex Ethics Hotline
102-35 Remuneration policies 2021 Proxy Statement pages 30, 46-77
102-36 Process for determining remuneration 2021 Proxy Statement pages 30, 46-77
102-40 List of stakeholder groups 2020-2021 ESG Report: Engaging Our Stakeholders page 15
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements We have a small number of employees which were subject 
to collective bargaining agreements in 2020. We believe that 
relations with our employees are positive.
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 2020-2021 ESG Report: Engaging Our Stakeholders page 15
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 2020-2021 ESG Report: Engaging Our Stakeholders page 15
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 2020-2021 ESG Report: Engaging Our Stakeholders page 15, 
Setting Our Priorities page 14
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 
financial statementsSubsidiaries of the Company
102-46 Defining report content and  
topic boundaries2020-2021 ESG Report: About This Report page 3
102-47 List of material topics 2020-2021 ESG Report: Setting Our Priorities page 14
102-48 Restatements of information 2020-2021 ESG Report: Environmental Performance Data 
Summary page 63
102-49 Changes in reporting There are no significant changes from the previous reporting 
period.
102-50 Reporting period January 1, 2020 – December 31, 2020. In some cases, we 
share highlights from programs and initiatives that were 
launched in 2021 to provide more up-to-date information to our 
stakeholders. 2020-2021 ESG Report: About This Report page 3. 
102-51 Date of most recent report September 2020
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding  
the reportPlease direct questions on this report or topics related to 
our corporate responsibility and sustainability disclosures to 
corporate.social.responsibility@aexp.com.
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with 
the GRI StandardsThis report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI 
Standards: Core option.
102-55 GRI content index 2020-2021 ESG Report: the GRI Content Index pages 82-86
102-56 External assurance We assure report content through an internal review process, 
including executive oversight of subject matter reviews and 
validation. Apex Companies, LLC (Apex) was engaged to conduct 
an independent verification of the greenhouse gas emissions 
reported by American Express for the calendar year 2020.Standard Code GRI Disclosure Reference/Location
GENERAL DISCLOSURES
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Climate 
SolutionsOperating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix•   84 GRI CONTENT INDEX
Standard Code GRI Disclosure Reference/Location
ECONOMIC DISCLOSURES
GRI 103:  
Economic (2016)103-1, 103-
2, 103-3Management Approach: Explanation 
of material topic and its boundary, 
management approach and its 
components, evaluation of management 
approach2020-2021 ESG Report: Setting Our Priorities page 14, Our 
Commitment to ESG page 8, Living by Our Code of Conduct 
page 72, Form 10-K Item 1
GRI 201:  
Economic 
Performance 
(2016)201-1 Direct economic value generated and 
distributed2020-2021 ESG Report: About American Express page 7 ,  
Form 10-K Item 7
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and 
opportunities due to climate change2020-2021 ESG Report: Advancing Climate Solutions page 54, 
the TCFD Index pages 75-78, Form 10-K Item 1A,  2021 CDP 
Climate Change Response  (C2)
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and 
other retirement plans2019-2020 ESG Report: Helping Colleagues Build Financial 
Confidence page 31, Form 10-K Note 11, American Express 
Colleague Benefits Website
GRI 203: 
Indirect Economic 
Impacts (2016)203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 2020-2021 ESG Report: ESG Strategy Pillars 2020-2021 
Highlights pages 11-13, Building Financial Confidence page 
37 , Investing in Our Communities pages 47-51, Backing Our 
Communities Through the Pandemic pages 51-52
GRI 204: 
Procurement 
Practices  (2016) 204-1 Management approach disclosures 2020-2021 ESG Report: Operating a Responsible Supply 
Chain pages 72-73
GRI 205: Anti-
corruption (2016)205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to 
corruption2020-2021 ESG Report: Business Ethics pages 70-72
205-2 Communication and training about anti-
corruption policies and procedures2020-2021 ESG Report: Business Ethics pages 70-72. All 
colleagues must complete anti-corruption and bribery training 
tied to their annual compensation that includes information 
about applicable laws and regulations for their location.
GRI 206: Anti-
competitive 
Behavior (2016)206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive 
behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly 
practicesForm 10-K Item 3 , Code of Conduct
ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURES
GRI 103: 
Environmental 
(2016)103-1, 103-
2, 103-3Management Approach 2020-2021 ESG Report: Advancing Climate Solutions pages 
54-63, 2021 CDP Climate Change Response (C1) 
GRI 302: Energy 
(2016)302-1 Energy consumption within the 
organization2020-2021 ESG Report: Environmental Performance Data 
Summary page 63, 2021 CDP Climate Change Response (C8) 
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the 
organization2020-2021 ESG Report: Environmental Performance Data 
Summary page 63, 2021 CDP Climate Change Response (C8)
302-3 Energy intensity 2020-2021 ESG Report: Environmental Performance Data 
Summary page 63, 2021 2021 CDP Climate Change Response 
(C8)
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 2020-2021 ESG Report: Investing in Sustainable Operations 
pages 57-60, 2021 CDP Climate Change Response (C3)
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of 
products and services2020-2021 ESG Report: Maintaining Carbon Neutral 
Operations page 59, 2021 CDP Climate Change Response 
GRI 303: Water 
and Effluents 
(2016)303-5 Water consumption 2020-2021 ESG Report: Environmental Performance Data 
Summary page 63
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Climate 
SolutionsOperating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix•   85 GRI CONTENT INDEX
GRI 103: Social 
(2016)103-1, 103-
2, 103-3Management Approach 2020-2021 ESG Report: Our ESG Strategy and Governance 
Framework page 10, ESG Governance page 67; Office of 
Enterprise Inclusion, Diversity, and Business Engagement 
page 68
GRI 401: 
Employment 
(2016)401-1 New employee hires and employee 
turnover2020-2021 ESG Report: 2020 Hiring, Promotions, and 
Retention Rates page 27
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees 
that are not provided to temporary or 
part-time employees2020-2021 ESG Report: Putting Colleague Health, Safety, and 
Well-Being First pages 30-31
401-3 Parental leave 2020-2021 ESG Report: Supporting Colleagues with 
Caregiving Responsibilities page 31
GRI 403: 
Occupational 
Health and 
Safety (2016)403-1 Occupational health and safety 
management system2020-2021 ESG Report: Putting Colleague Health, Safety, and 
Well-Being First pages 30-31
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and 
communication on occupational health 
and safety2020-2021 ESG Report: Putting Colleague Health, Safety, and 
Well-Being First pages 30-31
403-6 Promotion of worker health 2020-2021 ESG Report: Putting Colleague Health, Safety, and 
Well-Being First pages 30-31
GRI 404: Training 
and Education 
(2016)404-1 Average hours of training per year  
per employee2020-2021 ESG Report: Fostering Personal and Professional 
Growth page 32
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills 
and transition assistance programs2020-2021 ESG Report: Fostering Personal and Professional 
Growth page 32
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving 
regular performance and career 
development reviews2020-2021 ESG Report: Fostering Personal and Professional 
Growth page 32
GRI 405:  
Diversity and 
Equal Opportunity 
(2016)405-1 Diversity of governance bodies  
and employees2020-2021 ESG Report: Fostering an Inclusive and Diverse 
Workplace page 22: 2020 Global Workforce Representation 
and Board of Directors Demographics pages 22-23
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of 
women to men2020-2021 ESG Report: Maintaining Pay Equity page 26
GRI 412: 
Human Rights 
Assessment 
(2016)412-1 Operations that have been subject  
to human rights reviews or  
impact assessmentsNot reported. Human Rights Statement
412-3 Significant investment agreements and 
contracts that include human rights 
clauses or that underwent human  
rights screeningNot reported. Human Rights StatementGRI 305: 
Emissions (2016)305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 2020-2021 ESG Report: Environmental Performance Data 
Summary page 63, 2021 CDP Climate Change Response (C6) 
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 2020-2021 ESG Report: Environmental Performance Data 
Summary page 63, 2021 CDP Climate Change Response  (C6)
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 2020-2021 ESG Report: Environmental Performance Data 
Summary page 63, 2021 CDP Climate Change Response   (C6)
305-4 GHG emissions intensity 2020-2021 ESG Report: Environmental Performance Data 
Summary page 63, 2021 CDP Climate Change Response   (C6)
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 2020-2021 ESG Report: Environmental Performance Data 
Summary page 63, 2021 CDP Climate Change Response   (C6)
GRI 306: Effluents 
and Waste (2016)306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 2020-2021 ESG Report: Environmental Performance Data 
Summary page 63
SOCIAL DISCLOSURESStandard Code GRI Disclosure Reference/Location
ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURES
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Climate 
SolutionsOperating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix ESG Introduction Customers Communities Climate 
SolutionsOperating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix•   86 GRI CONTENT INDEX
GRI 413: Local 
Communities 
(2016)413-1 Operations with local community 
engagement, impact assessments, and 
development programs2020-2021 ESG Report: Backing Our Communities pages 
45-53
GRI 415: Public 
Policy (2016)     415-1 Political contributions American Express Company Political Contributions Report
GRI 418:  
Customer 
Privacy (2016)103-2 The management approach and its 
components2020-2021 ESG Report: Protecting Our Customers pages 
43-44
FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR SUPPLEMENT (2008)
FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening 
environmental and social risks in 
business lines2020-2021 ESG Report: the TCFD Index pages 75-78
FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business 
lines by specific region, size, and by 
sectorForm 10-K Item 1
FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial 
services for disadvantaged people2020-2021 ESG Report: Building Financial Confidence – 
Partnering to Support BIPOC- and Women-Owned Businesses 
pages 39-40, Empowering Consumers pages 40-41
FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by 
type of beneficiary2020-2021 ESG Report: Building Financial Confidence – 
Empowering Consumers pages 40-41Standard Code GRI Disclosure Reference/Location
SOCIAL DISCLOSURES
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Climate 
SolutionsOperating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix•   87
 
 
 
WATER R ESOU RCES  •  ENVIRONMENT AL SERVICES  •  HEALTH  & SAFETY   •  SUSTAINABILITY  
Apex Companies, LLC  ▪ www. apexcos.com  
 
 
  
 VERIFICATION OPINION  DECLARATION  
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS  
 
To: The Stakeholders of American Express  
 
Apex Companies, LLC (Apex) was  engaged to conduct an independent verification of  the greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions reported by American Express for the calendar year (CY) 2020 . This verification  opinion declaration 
applies to the related information included within the scope of work described below.   
The determination of the GHG emissions is the sole responsibility of American Express . American Express  is 
respon sible for the prep aration and f air presentation of the GHG  emissions statement in accord ance with the criteria . 
Apex’ s sole responsibility was to provide independent verification on the accuracy of the GHG e missions reported, 
and on the underlying sys tems and processes used t o coll ect, anal yze, and re view the i nformation. Apex is 
responsible for expressing an opinion on the GHG emissions statement  based on the verification.  Verification 
activi ties applied in a limited level of assurance verification are less extensive in nature , timing, and ex tent than in a 
reasonable level  of assurance verification.   
Boundaries of the reporting company GHG emissions covered by the verification:  
• Operational Control  
• Worldwide  
• Exclusions: No ne   
Types of GHGs : CO 2, N2O, CH 4, HFCs 
GHG Emissions Statement : 
Americ an Express Entity -Wide GHG Emission s for CY 2020 
Scope 1 Emissions Metric Tonnes (mt) of CO 2 equivalent (CO 2e) 19,620  
Scope 2 Emissions – Location Based mt CO 2e 90,024  
Scope 2 Emissions – Market Based mt CO 2e  (purchas ed steam and chilled water 
emissio ns) 2,464  
Scope 3 Emissions  
Category 6 Business Trav el mt CO 2e 5,513  
Total Scope 1 + Scope 2 Market Based + Scope 3 Business Travel mt CO 2e 27,597  
GHG Emission s Offsets and Net Emissions for CY 2020  
Purchased G HG Emissio n Offsets mt CO 2e    28,017 
Net Emissions mt CO 2e CY 2020  
(Scope 1 + Scope 2 Mar ket Based + Scope 3 Category 6 Business Travel ) 
Emissions ) - Purchased GHG Emission Offse ts 0 
 
Data and information supporting the Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions  statement  were in some cases  
estimated rath er than histori cal in natu re.  LIMITED ASSURANCE STATEMENT OF GHG EMISSIONS
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Climate 
SolutionsOperating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix•   88 LIMITED ASSURANCE STATEMENT OF GHG EMISSIONS
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Climate 
SolutionsOperating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix
 
 
American Express  Page 2 
July 23, 2021  
 
Data and information supporting the Scope 3 GHG e missions statement were in many cases  estimated rath er 
than histori cal in natu re.  
Period covered by GHG emissi ons verification: 
• Calendar Year 2020  – January 1 to December 31, 2020  
Criteria against which  verification was conducted:  
• World Resources Instit ute (WRI)/World Business Cou ncil for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) 
Greenhouse Ga s (GHG) Protocol , Corporate Account ing and Reporti ng Standard, Revised Edition (Scope 1 
and 2)  and the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance, an amendment to the GHG Protocol Corpora te Standard.  
• WRI/WBCSD Gree nhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3 ) Accounting and Reporting 
Standard.  
Refer ence Standar d:  
• ISO 14064- 3: Second edition 2019- 04: Greenhouse gases -- Part 3: Specification with Guidance for the 
Verification and V alidation of Greenhouse Gas Statements  
Level of Assurance  and Qual ifications : 
• Limited 
• This verificati on used a materialit y threshold of 5% for aggregate errors in sampled data  for each of the 
above indicat ors 
• Qualifications: None  
GHG Verifica tion Methodology:  
Evidence gathering proce dures included but were not limited to:   
• Interviews with relevant personnel of American Expre ss and their  consultant ;  
• Review of document ary evidence produced by  American Express ;  
• Review of American Express  data and information systems and methodology for  collection, aggregation, 
analysis an d review of information used t o determine GHG emissions ;  
• Audit of sample s of data used by American Express  to determine GHG emissions.  
Verification Opinion:  
Based on the process and procedu res conducted, there is no ev idence that the GH G emissions statement shown 
above:  
• is not materi ally correct and is not a fair represen tation o f the GHG emissions data and information; and  
• has not been prepared in accordance with the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and 
Reporting Standard (Scope 1 and 2 ), and WRI/WBCSD Gr eenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain  
Accoun ting an d Report ing Standard ( Scope 3).  
It is our opinion that American Express  has established appropriate systems for the collection, aggregation , and 
analy sis of quantita tive data for determination of these GHG emissions f or the stated period and  boundar ies. •   89 LIMITED ASSURANCE STATEMENT OF GHG EMISSIONS
ESG Introduction Customers Communities Climate 
SolutionsOperating 
ResponsiblyColleagues Appendix
 
 
American Express  Page 3 
July 23, 2021  
 
Statement  of independence, im partiality , and competence  
Apex is an independent professional services company that specializ es in Health, Safety, Social and Environment al 
management services including assurance with over  30 years history in provid ing these s ervices.   
No member of the verification team has a business relationship with American Express , its Directors or Managers 
beyond that required of this assignment. We conducted this verification indep endently and to our  knowledge there 
has been n o conflict of intere st. 
Apex has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to maintain high ethical standards  among staff in t heir 
day-to-day business acti vities.  
The ve rification team has extensive expe rience in conducting assurance over environmen tal, social , ethical  and 
health and safety information, systems and processes, has over 20 years combined experience in this field an d an 
excellent understanding of Apex’s  standard methodology for the verificat ion of greenhouse gas emissions  data.  
Attes tation:  
 
      
David  Reilly, Lead Verifier      Trevor Donaghu , Technical Reviewer  
Principal Consultant      Program Manager  
Apex Companies, LLC      Apex Companies,  LLC 
Santa Ana, California      Pleasant Hill, California  
 
July 23, 2021  
 
This verification sta temen t, inc luding t he opinion expressed herein, is provided to American Express  and is solely for the benefit of 
American Express  in accordanc e with the terms of  our agreem ent. We consent to the release of this statement by you t o the CDP in 
order to sa tisfy the term s of CDP  disclosure requirem ents but without accepting or assuming any responsibility or liability on our part 
to CDP or t o any other party who may ha ve access t o this statement.  
Thank Y ou for reading our  
2020-2021 ESG Report.
We value feedback from our stakeholders. If you would like to get in touch,  
please email corporate.social.responsibility@aexp.com.