2018
 CORPORATE ACCOUNTABILITY REPORT
AEP's Strategic Vision for
a Clean Energy Future
We believe sustainable electricity is
an essential tool for managing the
company’s carbon emissions and
reducing the broader global carbon
footprint. As we seek to do this, we
are evaluating business risks and
potential new opportunities, from the
boardroom to the customers’ side of
the meter. AEP’s 
Strategic Vision for
a Clean Energy Future
 report reflects
our strategy to transition to a cleaner
energy economy and our commitment
to transparency as we move forward.
Chairman's Message
At American Electric Power, we believe a sustainable future begins with
the social and economic benefits of delivering universal access to safe,
reliable and cost-effective electricity every day. We are proud to have been
entrusted with that responsibility and we work every day to deserve that
trust. As we transition to a cleaner energy future, we remain grounded in our
commitment to working with our customers and communities to build a
brighter, sustainable future together.
Targeted Strategic Relationships & Partnerships
Preparing for the future is as much about the relationships
we have today as it is our mindset for embracing change.
Targeted partnerships allow us to leverage the skills and
technologies of others, giving us an efficient way to stay
close to emerging technologies and team up with others for
the benefit of our customers.AEP’s Strategic Transformation
Sustainability Goals
AEP’s strategy for growth and the way we are advancing our business model are changing as
we plan for a future that is constantly evolving. Today, our focus is on providing customer
solutions through technology, diversifying our resources and investing in renewables; working
with regulators to modernize the regulatory compact to better serve the needs of all of our
customers; and preparing for the future of work and the skills our workforce will need. At the
same time, we are reducing our environmental footprint, removing risk from our business and
delivering value to our customers and shareholders.
AEP has laid a strong foundation for a strategic
transformation that positions us to be the energy company of
the future.
Our strategy for a sustainable future is to ensure the
production and delivery of energy enables positive social
and economic change for our customers, employees,
investors and communities.
Nicholas Akins, 
Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer
Chairman’s Message
It’s hard to imagine what our lives would be like without
electricity. At American Electric Power, we believe a
sustainable future begins with the social and economic benefits
of delivering universal access to safe, reliable and cost-
effective electricity every day. We are proud to have been
entrusted with that responsibility and we work every day to
deserve that trust. As we transition to a cleaner energy future,
we remain grounded in our commitment to working with our
customers and communities to build a brighter, sustainable
future together.
We’re committed to creating the energy infrastructure and
providing services needed to support vibrant communities.
Beyond the sale and delivery of electrons, we are investing in
education, helping people find programs and services to ensure
a better life, collaborating with local and regional organizations
to further support economic and business growth, increasing
mobility in underserved neighborhoods, and supporting a host
of cultural and community initiatives that are important to our
customers. Our investments to create a modern, bi-directional,
interconnected grid will build value for our communities in ways
that we have yet to fully imagine.
We envision a future
where smart systems
allow us to power society
in more efficient,
effective ways and in
ways customers expect.
And that future is a lot
closer than we think.
With electrification
comes a responsibility to
ensure the security,
reliability and resilience
of the grid. We are
investing billions to
replace aging infrastructure, making the system stronger so that when outages occur, we can restore service more quickly. We are
also diversifying resources, enabling innovation, advancing technologies to plug into the grid, preparing for a digital future, planning
strategically for our future workforce and reducing our environmental footprint along the way. In today’s era of continuous disruption
and change, energy is the common thread that bridges the past with the future.
Recognizing Our People
2017 was a momentous year during which our employees helped us develop new and creative thinking models, practices and
innovations. Through their ingenuity, commitment to safety, continuous improvement and dedication to our customers, our path to a
brighter future is clearer than ever. Our success is determined not simply by our physical assets, but by the engagement, generous
spirit and talent of our people. Together, we’re putting our energy to work to power a brighter, boundless future.
In 2017, the nation’s electric grid took a thrashing from severe weather. AEP’s system was no exception. Despite the damage and
destruction left behind, the human spirit of generosity and mutual care prevailed. I am immensely proud of our line crews and
support staff that traveled to restore power under difficult conditions; of those who stayed behind to keep the power on at home;
and of our many employees who generously donated cash and volunteered time to help storm victims.
Restoring service proved to be a humanitarian mission of the highest magnitude in 2017, and our employees rose to the challenge
every time. We owe them, and their families, a debt of gratitude for putting our customers and those in need first. Throughout these
crises, the compassion shown to those in need, and the commitment to customers, reflect who we are – always doing the rightNick Akins personally thanks AEP line crews for their hard work and
dedication while safely restoring power during Hurricane Harvey restoration
efforts.
Two years into a five-year safety and health transformation, we are making
progress toward our goal of achieving Zero Harm.
thing for our customers, each other and our future.
In Texas, our systems were severely damaged when Hurricane
Harvey came ashore. The Category 4 hurricane knocked out
power to approximately 220,000 of our Gulf Coast customers at
its peak and caused upwards of $325 million in damage.
Transmission and distribution crews and support staff from
AEP’s six other operating companies converged in south
Texas, along with thousands more from utilities around the
country, to help us restore service. Our employees also opened
their hearts and wallets, donating more than $93,000 to AEP’s
Emergency Disaster Relief Fund for relief efforts in hurricane-
ravaged portions of the AEP Texas service territory. With an
additional dollar-for-dollar match from the AEP Foundation,
donations exceeded $186,000 for Hurricane Harvey relief.
Harvey was followed by hurricanes Irma, and Maria, which left
Puerto Rico’s power grid in shambles. Millions faced the stark
hardship of living without electricity. As soon as the island was
able to accept aid, our employees and contractors began
rotating in and out of Puerto Rico, working long hours every day,
helping to restore power.
Zero Harm – Because We Care
Nothing is more important to me, and to every AEP employee,
than safety and health. Our goal of Zero Harm means that
everyone goes home in the same or better condition than when they came to work. Two years into a five-year safety and health
transformation, we are making progress toward Zero Harm. We are modifying our approach to safety and building a culture that
supports and sustains world-class safety performance. This journey requires constant focus, communication, learning and
continuous improvement. There is no magic solution; we must steadfastly remain vigilant day and night to ensure our personal
safety and the safety of those around us, at work and at home.
Despite our efforts, two contractors working on behalf of AEP in
2017 were fatally injured when they came into contact with
electrical facilities. These tragedies are unacceptable to me
and to our company, and remind us that we have to work harder
to strengthen our contractor safety program. We expect the
same commitment to Zero Harm from our contractors, not just
our own employees. This is especially important as our
contractor workforce grows with our business and they are
working side-by-side with our employees.
In 2017, there were also tragic consequences when members
of the public came into contact with our facilities, causing five
fatalities in our service territory. We have reinvigorated our
public safety focus, implementing new programs and outreach
efforts.
While many numbers we measure are lagging indicators of
safety performance, we are focusing on leading actions to
prevent harm and to eliminate risks before an injury or illness
occurs. Our Good Catch program identifies safety risks before
they result in harm, providing us with an opportunity to take
corrective action. In 2017, we recorded more than 4,000 Good Catches that we shared across our business units. We have also
instituted a new safety and health committee structure that engages employees and removes roadblocks to allow timely corrective
actions.
Driving is a critical task for many employees, who in aggregate, average more than 91 million miles a year for work. In 2017, we
implemented two important new driving-related safety policies. The Attentive Driving Policy prohibits employees from using
cellphones and hands-free devices while driving for company business. We also reinforced the importance of seat belt use in
saving lives. Both policies came from employee recommendations during a company-wide driving summit, which was held in
response to the deaths of two employees in 2016 from motor vehicle-related accidents.
Our unwavering commitment to Zero Harm is critical because our actions on the job don’t just affect our co-workers; they have a
ripple effect on everyone in our lives. I am confident we can achieve Zero Harm. Work groups across the company achieve it all the
time, and we must learn what makes it possible for everyone, not just some. We owe it to ourselves, our families and theIf approved, AEP's proposed Wind Catcher Energy Connection project will
be the largest wind farm in the United States delivering energy to more than
1 million customers in four states.
employees and contractors we’ve lost to be aware and take action. We are making progress but still have much work to do before
we can achieve our goal of Zero Harm.
Putting Customers First
We deeply value the relationships we have with our customers and communities. As fast as technology changes and the demand
for flexibility of the power grid grows, our customers’ expectations are also evolving. We want to collaborate with them to deliver
energy solutions and provide service that goes beyond their expectations. Today, we’re taking steps to ensure every customer has
a great experience whenever, and however, they interact with AEP.
In 2017, we achieved two major customer-first milestones: We launched a mobile app to make it easier for customers to do
business with us and we redesigned the customer bill to make it simpler and easier to understand. Both projects are examples of
how we are responding to our customers’ priorities. We’re working even harder to improve customer satisfaction by putting the
customer first in everything we do.
In 2018, we are building a new, state-of-the-art Social Media Center to enhance and expand our ability to listen to and engage with
customers and key stakeholders. Customers want to use digital channels to access information or buy services. We will pilot a new
energy usage program via a digital platform. We are providing additional training to our customer operations representatives so
they can provide an exceptional experience to every customer, every time.
We are working together with customers, policymakers and regulators to drive policies and reforms that enable us to serve
customers in ways they expect and deserve. It is encouraging that some regulatory agencies are being proactive in establishing
formal proceedings to explore the opportunities of new technologies and determine whether the current regulatory paradigm
supports these changes. But many agencies are still standing on the sidelines with the belief that these changes will occur naturally.
We believe that regulators must ensure that these new technologies are provided to all.
AEP is at the forefront of developing a truly sustainable, inclusive energy future that recognizes the unique needs of all customers
and leaves no one behind. We will continue to advance new and innovative energy solutions, working with our customers,
regulators and legislators to make the changes to support a modern and resilient grid.
Working with Our Regulators
2017 saw one of the busiest regulatory calendars in the history
of the company. We had rate cases in various stages across
five states, and made numerous filings at the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission (FERC), as did our stakeholders. The
largest was the $4.5 billion Wind Catcher Energy Connection
project, which required filings across four states and at FERC.
And, there were numerous filings to support the expansion of
renewable energy, energy efficiency, economic development
and grid modernization.
Our regulatory case load reflects AEP’s commitment to
pursuing solutions that enhance the customer experience and
embrace technologies that will improve our overall use of
energy. To do so, we must remain financially strong to make the
needed investments and to remain attractive to investors.
Second, our caseload clearly reflects AEP’s commitment to
pursuing solutions that enhance the customer experience and
embrace technologies that will improve our overall use of
energy. In addition, we should expect to see more capital
deployed for projects such as Wind Catcher and other grid
optimization technologies that actually lower customer bills for
our product.
Preparing the Workforce of the Future
We are looking strategically at our workforce needs to support our business in the future. AEP has long been a leading
engineering company; in the future, we will need to complement this expertise with more creative, entrepreneurial and data-driven
skills to help us harmonize what our customers are asking for and the solutions and services we will provide.
In the next five years, we are expecting a significant turnover of talent as people retire or leave for other opportunities and we are
planning accordingly. Our early work in data analytics is a good example of a new skill set we will need to deliver on our customer
experience promise and continue to offer cost-effective energy solutions and services. We are helping our employees to learn and
obtain the skills and experience they need to support a 21st century utility. We are also studying how innovations like automation
can make work faster, easier and more effective.By 2030, our integrated resource plans call for us to add approximately
8,000 MW of additional new renewables to our regulated portfolio.
We also need a diverse workforce and an environment that fully embraces inclusion. In 2017, we formed a Diversity & Inclusion
Council to guide and create strategies for increasing diversity in our workforce, including at the leadership level. The Council will
also ensure that diversity and inclusion are integrated in our policies, processes and practices, so that our workforce mirrors the
diversity of our communities.
We are making progress but we have much more work ahead. And in the midst of current events, we have reaffirmed and
reinforced our expectations concerning harassment of any kind in the workplace. Our Board of Directors also is focused on all of
these workplace-related initiatives and the overall culture expectations for the company.
We want a more engaged workforce. Highly motivated and engaged employees are more productive, more likely to innovate, go
above and beyond for customers, work safely, and commit to our mutual success. We continue to ensure that our culture promotes
total employee engagement. Our annual employee culture survey helps us measure our success and we continue to seek new
ways to ensure that we are promoting strategic participation from all areas of the company.
Finally, we expect our employees to act with integrity, to adhere to the highest ethical standards, and to treat each other with
respect.
Creating a Clean, Secure Energy Future
Our customers expect safe, reliable and affordable power on demand. More and more of them want their energy to come from
cleaner sources. Over the past five years, AEP has moved toward fuel sources with a lower carbon footprint, such as natural gas,
wind and solar. In 2005, 70 percent of our generating capacity was from coal; today, it is 47 percent.
Our integrated resource plans that support the capacity and
energy needs of our regulated utilities demonstrate this shift.
While these plans will evolve, our goal is to add approximately
8,000 megawatts (MW) of additional new renewables to our
regulated portfolio by 2030.
Investing in a clean energy future is good for society and good
for our business. Our proposed Wind Catcher project in
Oklahoma is an example of our commitment. We are hopeful
regulators will support the economic, environmental and social
benefits that Wind Catcher will bring to more than one million
customers in Oklahoma, Arkansas, Louisiana and Texas. If
approved, it will be the largest wind farm in the country with a
dedicated generation tie line that will deliver 2,000 MW of clean
energy, reduce our fuel costs, save our customers money,
further diversify our energy supply, and boost the local and
regional economy.
In February 2018, AEP made important and significant
commitments to reduce CO
 emissions from our generating
facilities. We set new goals to reduce CO
 emissions by 60
percent by 2030 and 80 percent by 2050 (both from a 2000
baseline). These goals emerged from more than two years of
engagement with various stakeholders, including our investors.
Universally, they asked if we were sufficiently prepared to make
the transition to a clean energy future. 
AEP’s Clean Energy Future report
 provides details about our strategy, how we manage
carbon-related risk, the impact to our customers and potential scenarios that could slow or accelerate these reductions. These
ambitious goals will challenge and stretch us, but these dramatic reductions are the right thing to do and I’m confident we will
achieve them.
Cyber and physical security attacks are among the biggest threats to the electric grid today. The electric power industry is the only
critical infrastructure sector with mandatory and enforceable cyber and physical security standards. It’s not only the grid we have to
protect; we must also protect AEP’s business systems.
Protecting the nation’s grid from constant cyber and physical security threats is a responsibility we take very seriously. Today’s
reality is that we cannot protect all assets from all threats. Instead, we take a risk-based approach that includes rigorous,
mandatory and enforceable reliability regulations; we operate in close coordination within the industry and with government
partners. We work continually to strengthen our efforts to prepare, respond and recover should an event occur.
We also learn from real-world events such as the 2015 attack on the power grid in Ukraine, multiple companies affected by data
breaches and other cyber-attacks. Regulations are becoming more stringent, and more aspects of the energy system are
assigned a critical infrastructure status. As we work continuously to strengthen our defensive posture, we are reinforcing offensive
tools that focus on grid resilience and our ability to respond to an attack. This includes protecting the data that we collect.
2
2Presenting New Sustainability Goals
This year, we are introducing new sustainability goals for the future. After conducting extensive benchmarking and identifying
opportunities to link sustainability with our business strategy, we engaged employees to help us develop goals. Seven teams of
more than 30 people in total participated in establishing three focus areas – energy and environment, social responsibility and
economic impact. The goals are aligned with our corporate strategy and business initiatives, and we will report our progress
annually. In addition, we are mapping our sustainability goals to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals because we
see a linkage there as well. We are excited to share these goals with you.
Smart Electrification for Social Good
Electrification – the process of powering equipment or systems by electricity – is driving innovation of commercial and residential
buildings, transportation systems and industry. It is also driving innovation in the design of new energy solutions and services for
our customers.
We envision a future of widespread electrification. By replacing technologies that run on combustion engines and motors with
alternatives that run on electricity, we can optimize how we use the power grid and hasten the transition to clean energy. The
journey is already well underway; the electricity we produce today already is much cleaner than it was a decade ago. That means
every electrical device plugged into our system is using cleaner electricity with less environmental impact.
The advent of smart cities and their ecosystems of smart transportation, smart street lighting, smart buildings, electric vehicle
charging stations and other technologies, has quantifiable social benefits for our communities. We are a proud partner with Smart
Columbus, where we are leveraging technology in new and innovative ways to enhance public safety and improve mobility in the
community.
We are investing approximately $175 million in smart enhancements to Ohio’s energy infrastructure, including deployment of
electric vehicle charging stations. By enhancing the transportation system, we are creating equitable access to transportation,
which allows greater access to jobs, healthcare and other human services that are needed in underserved urban neighborhoods.
We believe smart technology will make our communities more sustainable, resilient, efficient, livable and competitive. This
emphasis on smart and sustainable communities will be our hallmark throughout our service territory.
In addition, we will create microgrid demonstration projects with nonprofit entities such as police and fire stations, medical and
municipal facilities and emergency shelters. Microgrids provide resilience for the community because they operate independently
from the power grid and can be called upon in times of need. By focusing on facilities that provide vital human services, such as
public safety and medical care, we can optimize the grid by directing connections that provide social good.
Leveraging Innovation and Going Digital
The world is in the midst of a “connectivity revolution” that will
influence how we do business in the future. 
To keep pace, we
are 
changing the way we organize, behave and operate to
remain competitive, better serve our customers and create
sustainable value. We are adopting an agile operating model
that will allow us to identify risks and opportunities with speed
and precision, and to find and repeat solutions rapidly. Our five-
year roadmap includes creating the position of Chief Digital
Officer to help us chart the way forward.
Building a successful digital future also requires collaboration
and innovation. AEP has a rich history of innovation, most of
which was centered on the physical assets of our generation,
transmission and distribution network. And while innovation to
reimagine those systems remains critical, we also are focusing
on innovation that more directly benefits the customer. Instead of just thinking about assets and resources, such as generation,
transmission and distribution, today’s technology realities extend to grid optimization through big data analytics and customer
usage aggregation that helps to drive optimization and efficiency.
In 2017, to spark customer-focused innovation, we launched several initiatives, including partnering with Singularity University, a
Silicon Valley think tank helping us to build breakthrough solutions. We held our first “Spark Tank” innovation challenge,
encouraging employees to bring forth ideas for services and energy solutions that customers might want. Not surprisingly, our
employees embraced this opportunity bringing forward nearly 400 ideas.
In March 2018, AEP became the only North American electric utility invited to join Free Electrons, the first global innovation
accelerator that connects promising energy startup companies with leading utilities. I am proud of our employees who continually
rise to the challenge of creating new and innovative solutions for customers.
Analytics to Drive PerformanceWe collect vast amounts of data that provide us with important information, from customer usage patterns to maintenance needs on
the system. We continually expand our use of data and analytics to help solve problems and drive better decision-making and
actions. Through our Data Science Team, we’re using “big data,” analysis tools, statistics and mathematics to equip us to harvest
data more effectively to identify trends and help us become more efficient and resilient.
In 2017, we appointed a Chief Data Scientist to lead our efforts because advanced analytics are so important to our future. Our
focus on data-driven, information-enabled decision making gives us an advantage in using analytics to better serve our customers
and improve business performance. Big data opens the door to allow us to maximize all of our resources and assets to optimize
the grid and deliver on our customer promise. We also take appropriate steps to protect the privacy of all the data we collect.
Leaders Lost
In 2018, we lost two long-time AEP leaders, both of whom made significant contributions to our company and to their communities.
Retired AEP board member and Roanoke, Virginia business leader, Donald G. Smith, passed away in March. He was a longtime
employee and executive of Roanoke Electric Steel Corporation, one of Appalachian Power’s largest industrial customers. He
served on AEP’s board for more than a dozen years. In 2017, the AEP Foundation contributed $250,000 toward the construction
of the Don and Barbara Smith Children’s Museum in Roanoke.
Also in March, John E. Dolan, retired vice chairman of Engineering and Construction for AEP, passed away. Dolan was a World
War II veteran, having completed 24 combat missions in the European Theater with the Eighth Air Force. He was awarded
multiple air medals for his service. He joined AEP in 1950 as an engineer and had a distinguished career with the company until
his retirement in 1988. The John E. Dolan Engineering Laboratory in Groveport, Ohio, bears his name. The lab celebrated 30
years of operation in 2017.
Working for a Brighter Future
We are excited about the future and the promise it holds for our customers, employees and shareholders. We know it will look
nothing like our past. The disruptive changes to our business are not unique to our company or even our industry. But we are
embracing change because our future success demands it. Change creates new opportunities, transforms companies and ignites
growth. All are either happening now or are at our doorstep.
Fundamental to our agility and ability to adapt to the seismic changes we face is to reimagine what a leading energy company of
the future looks like. And that’s why we’re coming together with our customers and our communities to help define and shape it so
we can all be successful.
The spirit of innovation and ingenuity at AEP is stronger than ever. Our new Innovation Hub is a leading example of sharing
knowledge, learning together in a relentless pursuit of making what seems impossible, probable -- settling for nothing less than
excellence.
Our attention to nurturing an engaged, open, collaborative and inclusive culture is foundational to achieving our goals. We are
making good progress every year. We want a diverse workforce and an environment where everyone looks forward to coming to
work every day and can contribute in every way possible. We will be relentless in our pursuit of Zero Harm because we truly care
about each other. And we will always keep our customers at the center of every decision we make and action we take.We have laid a strong foundation for the future. We will continue to advocate for our customers, strengthen our relationship with
them and deliver on our promise of an exceptional customer experience. We will not relent in our responsibility to provide universal
access to the grid because that is how we contribute to improving quality of life for everyone.
AEP will be the model of what society should look like in the future. Much like an orchestra makes music by listening to each other
and working together, we know that achieving harmony as we execute our strategy for the future requires constant coordination of
diverse interests. I am confident that the men and women of AEP are up to the challenge and we will put boundless energy to work
every day to build a brighter future for us all.
Sincerely,
Nicholas K. Akins
Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer
American Electric Power
AEP's Strategic Plan
The rapid changes transforming the energy industry, thanks to technological innovation and interconnectivity, are altering the
dynamics of how people interact with the power grid, turning consumers into active, not passive, participants. From decentralized
power generation and electrification to digitization, disruptive innovation is reshaping our industry and our company.
AEP’s strategy for growth and the way we are advancing our business model are changing as we plan for a future that is constantly
evolving. Historically, our capital investments focused primarily on large, centralized plants, building new capacity and controlling
existing units to comply with environmental regulations to keep them running longer.
Today, our capital investment strategy spans the value chain of generation, transmission and distribution with the customer at the
center. Our focus is on providing customer solutions through technology, diversifying our resources and investing in renewables;
working with regulators to modernize the regulatory compact to better serve the needs of all of our customers; and preparing for the
future of work and the skills our workforce will need. 
At the same time, we are reducing our environmental footprint, removing risk
from our business and delivering value to our customers and shareholders.
AEP’s Business Model TodayAEP’s Strategic Transformation
AEP has laid a strong foundation for a strategic transformation that positions us to be the energy company of the future. We have
managed through significant earnings challenges due to the deregulation of our generation assets in Ohio; completed the sale of
merchant power plants to reduce the risk from the volatility of unpredictable capacity markets; spun off businesses that were not
core to our regulated utility business; diversified our resource portfolio to meet the needs of a clean energy future; set new carbon
emissions reduction goals; expanded our business beyond our traditional regulated footprint; embraced continuous improvement
to manage our financial resources and improve efficiency, reliability and customer focus; and transformed our culture.
We have established strategic goals and initiatives to shape our future and continue to make progress year over year. Our 2022
vision to be the energy company of the future provides mileposts that are essential to our success. These include grid reliability
and modernization, advancing technology and innovation, exceeding customers’ expectations, growing our regulated and
contracted renewables, preparing for the workforce of the future and partnering with our regulators to shift the regulatory paradigm
to support these activities.To achieve AEP’s strategic goals we need a high level of employee
engagement to transform our business, continuous improvement and a
commitment to Zero Harm.
Between 2018 and 2020, AEP plans to invest about $17.7 billion in capital
(excluding Wind Catcher) to modernize and make the electric system more
reliable, resilient and secure.
Corporate Strategic Goals & Initiatives - 2017 progress
Goal: Aggressively pursue customer experience and sales channel expansion
Initiatives:
 We are implementing our customer experience
roadmap and have committed significant capital investments to
deliver exceptional service to our customers. By engaging with
our customers, we have a better understanding of their needs.
We are working to enhance every touchpoint they have with
AEP, developing new communication and digital marketing
channels to connect with them. A diverse team, led by our Chief
Customer Officer and Customer Experience Board, is
implementing an integrated customer experience strategy that
includes development and delivery of energy solutions and
services for all types of customers. This includes the addition of
a Social Media Listening & Response Center, technology
upgrades for our customer operations centers and new training
to empower employees to meet and exceed customer
expectations.
Goal: Grow our regulated utility infrastructure
investment
Initiatives:
 We will continue to grow our regulated transmission
and distribution investments and expand beyond our traditional
service territory through investments in competitive transmission projects. Investments in our core, regulated businesses to
enhance service to customers support our strategy to modernize the power grid while delivering cost-effective, reliable energy. At
the same time, we are hardening the system to improve resilience.
Grid modernization initiatives include replacing aging
infrastructure based upon condition, performance and risk and
continuing to make investments that optimize the use of the
grid, and enabling the integration of distributed energy
resources and real-time digital technologies, such as Volt VAR
Optimization (VVO), electric vehicle charging stations and
energy storage. Distributed technologies deployed for system
and community benefit can create a new platform for offering
customer-focused energy solutions and services.
Between 2018 and 2020, AEP plans to invest about $17.7
billion in capital (excluding Wind Catcher) to modernize and
make the electric system more reliable, resilient and secure. Of
this, approximately $3 billion per year will be invested in
transmission to address aging infrastructure, improve local
reliability, relieve congestion on existing lines, and enable the
growth of distributed generation technologies and renewable
resources.
Through joint ventures such as Transource
, a partnership to
invest in competitive transmission projects, AEP is well-
positioned to expand transmission investment outside of our
traditional service territory. So far, these joint ventures have
enabled us to expand our transmission footprint to 13 states
with projects under development in two additional states.
®Goal: Pursue resource transition investment opportunities
Initiatives:
 Making the transition to a balanced, diverse portfolio will help mitigate risk for our customers and shareholders,
ensuring a more resilient and reliable energy system in the future. We are doing this through our regulated utilities and through
company-owned and long-term contracted renewables. Our competitive renewables businesses – AEP Renewables and AEP
OnSite Partners – plan to invest up to $1.2 billion in contracted renewables between 2018 and 2020. By 2030, our current
integrated resource plans project we will add more than 8,000 MW of wind and solar to our regulated portfolio. Between 2018 and
2020, we will invest approximately $500 million in renewable wind and solar in our regulated utilities. These plans will evolve and
investments are subject to regulatory approval. Today, approximately 11,900 MW of renewable energy is interconnected to AEP’s
transmission grid, delivering clean energy across America.
AEP has proposed the $4.5 billion Wind Catcher Energy Connection project, which includes a 2,000 MW wind farm in the
panhandle of Oklahoma that will be the largest wind farm in the United States. Wind Catcher also includes construction of an
approximately 350-mile dedicated generation tie line to the Tulsa area, where nearly 9 million megawatt-hours of new, low-cost
wind energy per year will be delivered to more than 1 million customers in four states. Regulatory review of this project is well
underway. If approved, Wind Catcher would accelerate the addition of 8,000 MW of renewables in our regulated utilities.
As the grid changes, our resource planning process is changing with it. Once dominated by coal-fueled generating capacity to
meet demand, today’s resource plans are now largely comprised of wind and solar and natural gas generating resource
investments. We have significantly reduced our business risk and the volatility of future earnings by exiting the merchant generation
business and focusing on our regulated business. By developing integrated generation, transmission, distribution and energy
storage solutions, we can compete for new business opportunities to partner with our customers.
Goal: Develop targeted strategic relationships and partnerships (technology, innovation, workforce)
Initiatives:
 Preparing for the future is as much about the relationships we have today as it is our mindset for embracing change.
Targeted partnerships allow us to leverage the skills and technologies of others, giving us an efficient way to stay close to emerging
technologies and team up with others for the benefit of our customers. In addition, strategic partnerships help us to advance
innovation and prepare our workforce for the future.
In 2017, we launched our first enterprise-wide innovation challenge, and we are creating organizational processes focused on
accelerating new customer products, services and digital capabilities.
For example, we partnered with Singularity University (SU) to sponsor the Smart Cities Accelerator in Columbus, Ohio, to drive
innovation and entrepreneurship to transform the smart city of the future. 
The SU Smart Cities Accelerator supports local start-ups
focused on mobility, connectivity, data and analytics, infrastructure and energy and manufacturing and production. One of the ideas
that came out of AEP’s enterprise-wide innovation challenge in 2017 was submitted to the Smart Cities Accelerator for
development. The electric vehicle (EV) subscription program will increase mobility, especially in underserved neighborhoods, aswell as help to establish EV infrastructure.
We have many targeted partnerships to help advance technology to improve operational efficiency and the customer experience.
For example, we invested in Greensmith Energy to grow grid-scale energy storage systems. In 2017, AEP and Greensmith
teamed up to pair advanced energy storage technology with two hydro plants in southwest Virginia to provide ancillary services to
the grid. The integration of energy storage with hydroelectric power plants is seen to be the world’s first hybridized system of its
kind to provide those services to the PJM frequency regulation market. The system is due to come online in 2018.
As we redefine the future of energy and develop innovative solutions, we cannot continue doing business as usual. We are defining
AEP’s future in two ways: Updating the tools and technologies we use and helping our employees prepare through strategic work
planning. In 2017, we completed a project to look at what the future of work will be and how to get the work done. We are taking
what we learned and developing a strategy for a digital future – changing how we organize, behave and operate to best serve our
customers.
We are also working with regulators to develop a model of utility involvement and participation in customer technology advances
that supports this new paradigm and allows us to compete for new business opportunities, inside and outside of our traditional
service territory. In addition, we need changes that allow us to respond more quickly and efficiently to customer desires for their
energy supply needs.
Sustainability Strategy & Goals
In 2016, we chartered a strategic initiative to develop AEP’s next-generation sustainability goals. The objective was to measure
how we create shared value – for AEP and our stakeholders – through our investments in sustainable development of clean energy
infrastructure. One of our first steps was to define the AEP Strategy Framework for Sustainable Development, which provides
context for our core business and a roadmap to implement throughout our value chain. 
Our new sustainability goals provide the
metrics and methodologies to measure performance against our business plan – across our business – providing structure to
communicate the return on investment (ROI) and the shared value we create for AEP and all our stakeholders.
Our strategy for a sustainable future is to ensure that the production and delivery of energy enables positive social and
economic change for our customers, employees and communities as we collaboratively shape our future. This is grounded
by our culture of safety, continuous improvement and customer focus. We commit to aggressively support economic
development, develop innovative solutions, champion education and make smart infrastructure investments that power our
communities and improve lives. AEP will lead by example by setting strategic performance targets and goals, and we will be
guided by these key principles:
Be a catalyst for change
 – We will use our knowledge, voice, skills and relationships to enable innovation, bring new
technologies to market, modernize the grid to be the ultimate optimizer of all resources and technologies, and develop a
diverse, inclusive workforce for the 21st century.
Advance environmental stewardship
 – As we transition to a cleaner energy future, we will seek to continuously improve
operations across our business to reduce, mitigate or eliminate the resulting impacts on the environment.
Help to build strong local communities
 – We have a responsibility to create shared value – for our customers, employees
and the communities we serve. Our philanthropy is focused on helping people in our communities access nutritious meals
and safe, affordable housing, and develop the skills they need to build a sustainable future for themselves. Our economic
development activities seek to enhance and support communities through the expansion of economic opportunity by
minimizing unemployment and supporting an adequate tax base for critical community institutions.
Develop a brighter energy future
 – We seek to work together with our customers and communities to help them navigate
energy and technology choices, give them accurate and timely information they can act on, provide safe, reliable and
affordable electricity, and remain continuously engaged to ensure optimal alignment with customers’ expectations.
The goals design process is being led by a team of subject matter experts within AEP’s businesses and through partnership with
The Analyst Desk, who helped us design the project, conduct benchmarking and perform expert analytics to inform goal design
and implementation plans. This work is the culmination of capturing feedback from stakeholders over the past few years with
investors, customers, and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). 
The stakeholder feedback focused on issues such as climate
change, carbon risk, energy efficiency, renewable energy, advanced technologies, and diversity and inclusion.
In 2017, more than 30 employees worked in teams to develop a set of draft sustainability goals. 
The process was informed by
three key steps:
1
. 
External Performance Benchmarks:
 External benchmarking of utility sector peer companies, global best-in-class and
investor disclosure expectations (mainstream and socially responsible/ESG investors)2
. 
Internal Performance Drivers:
 Driven by input from the Goals’ teams, numerous performance improvement opportunities
were identified that could be realized through implementation of the proposed new sustainability goals. The ideation focused on
measures/goals that would drive innovation, risk management and/or growth opportunities.
3
. 
Vetting for Alignment with AEP Business Strategy, Goals and Strategic Initiatives:
 Prospective goals were vetted for
alignment with AEP’s strategy framework for sustainable development, its corporate goals, strategic initiatives and future
outlook.
The cumulative work of our employees’ effort to set sustainability goals for the future that reflect our commitment to the environment;
efficient use of energy; safety, health and well-being of our workforce and the public; supplier diversity; community building; the
customer experience; and economic development was published with the launch of our 2018 Corporate Accountability Report.
On a parallel path, AEP developed new carbon reduction goals based on our current business strategy and integrated resource
planning models. In February 2018, we announced our goals in February 2018, which call for reducing carbon dioxide emissions
(CO
) from AEP generating facilities by 60 percent by 2030 and 80 percent by 2050 (based on a 2000 baseline). 
Learn more
about the carbon goals and 
AEP’s Strategic Vision for a Clean Energy Future
.
In addition to business and cultural alignment, AEP’s sustainability goals are aligned with the U.N. Sustainable Development
Goals (SDGs). We believe this is important to demonstrate how AEP creates shared value for our business and for society.
Sustainability Governance
There is heightened demand for transparency and expectation that leadership adopt holistic, long-term approaches to managing
environment, social and governance (ESG) performance. Companies are judged on performance and how well they link tangibles
(such as financial capital and physical assets) with intangibles (such as reputation, brand, customer loyalty, risk management, trust
and credibility) and show bottom line benefits.
There is no one-size-fits-all approach to sustainability governance, but AEP believes it is fundamental to building and
strengthening sustained business value. Good governance ensures transparency, fairness and accountability and gives us a
structured way to manage the challenges of a changing society.
Through AEP’s Enterprise Sustainability Council and with oversight from executive management and the Committee on Directors
and Corporate Governance of the Board of Directors, we have clear guidance on our ESG responsibilities for sustainable
business development. The Council is made up of some of AEP’s top leaders and decision-makers, representing functional units
from across the company.
Executive sponsors of the Enterprise Sustainability Council include the Chairman, President and CEO; Executive Vice President,
General Counsel and Corporate Secretary; Chief Administrative Officer; and Executive Vice President of External Affairs.
The Council provides a forum for key decision-makers to come together and reflects the maturity of sustainability and the reporting
process at AEP. It is embedded in AEP’s business strategy, supporting our culture and our values.
In 2017, the Council helped develop 
AEP’s Strategy for Sustainability Development
, which laid the foundation for setting new
sustainability goals. The Council also provided oversight for the development of our sustainability goals. Their leadership,
expertise and focus on continuous improvement helped us identify the focus areas for goal-setting. Employees from across the
organization helped develop the goals. Through research, benchmarking and engagement with leaders, we developed
2sustainability goals that are aligned with our corporate strategy to create shared value for AEP and our communities.
In addition to the Council, the Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance of the Board of Directors reviews the
Corporate Accountability Report annually. The Committee provides feedback and develops the 
Board statement
 supporting
AEP’s commitment to sustainable business development and performance accountability; the statement is published in this report
each year. The combined governance from the Board of Directors and the Enterprise Sustainability Council, along with process
improvements initiated in 2017, help us ensure that our disclosure undergoes a disciplined review and validation process that is
more efficient and effective.
While these issues are discussed by the Board of Directors throughout the year, we formally report to the Committee on our
sustainability-related activities twice per year. In addition, the Lead Director of AEP’s Board of Directors participates in our annual
outreach to engage with investors on important governance, environmental and social matters.
The governance structure we have in place supports AEP’s commitment to transparency and addressing stakeholder concerns.
Chief Customer Officer
Enterprise Security
Information Technology
Regulatory Services
Corporate Communications
AEP Energy
Supply Chain & Procurement
Human Resources
Ethics & Compliance
Environmental Services
Economic & Business Development
Customer & Distribution Services
Corporate Planning & Budgeting
Resource Planning
Legal
Corporate Finance
Technology Business Development
Transmission
Commercial Operations
Generation
Safety & Health
Public Policy
NERC Compliance
Investor Relations
Continuous Improvement
Real Estate & Workplace Services
Audit Services
Learn more about climate risk governance in our report: 
American Electric Power: Strategic Vision for a Clean Energy Future
.
Regulatory and Public Policy
The electric utility industry is one of the most highly regulated sectors of the U.S. economy. The industry is undergoing a major
transformation to modernize the grid, making it more reliable, resilient and customer friendly. Through this evolution, we continue to
work with our customers, regulators and policymakers at the federal, state and local levels.
In 11 states, AEP operates within a variety of jurisdictional regulatory frameworks. Those frameworks primarily are governed by
state legislatures that direct state regulatory commissions to achieve overarching policy goals. These regulatory and legislative
environments, in conjunction with federal regulation and legislation, define the parameters of AEP’s business and planning models.
Our focus always is on a safe and reliable grid that is resilient and adaptive. Our generation, transmission and distribution system
investments directly affect our customers and shareholders. These investments must coexist with regulation and policy
considerations such as environmental rules and affordability. As we transition to a clean energy future, we are reshaping our asset
base in a reliable and affordable manner for our customers while managing the financial risk for our shareholders. The changes we
are making must be compatible with the regulatory frameworks in which we exist on the wires (transmission and distribution) side
of the business.
However, regulatory frameworks must be responsive to today’s technology and customer preference environment. AEP is at the
forefront of evaluating and deploying technologies to improve the customer experience. Regulations must be progressive enough
to allow the utility to provide these solutions for customers. The customer must be the center of our focus and analysis and
regulatory policy decision-making.AEP is at the forefront of evaluating and deploying technologies to improve
the customer experience. Regulations must be progressive enough to allow
the utility to provide these solutions for customers.
Regulatory Compact
The regulatory compact is a term used to describe traditional
regulation of vertically integrated utilities. It is the regulatory
paradigm in which a regulated utility makes prudent
investments to ensure a safe and reliable electric service
universally to all customers. The utility applies to its state
regulatory commission for cost recovery on its investments. The
commission then approves the prudent expense, including an
opportunity to earn a fair rate of return on the investment. This
was the way virtually all electric utilities did business from the
time the industry was regulated in the 1930s until the
deregulation trends of the 1990s. Now we have a patchwork
quilt of states that have varying levels of competition. In those
states where competition exists, the generation or access to the
retail customer is competitive. However, even in those states
the regulatory compact still exists in the regulation of the wires.
AEP embraces the regulatory compact but also sees a need to
increase flexibility through alternative ratemaking models and to
alleviate regulatory lag (the time it takes to recover investments)
and uncertainty. This is referred to in the industry as the
regulatory paradigm shift. AEP is among the industry leaders
calling for regulatory reform that will allow us to more nimbly
respond to technological changes necessary to meet today’s
more complex consumer and societal demands while still preserving the need to provide service to all customers.
Today’s technologies are evolving into creative new solutions that were not envisioned just a few years ago. We need regulatory
models that give utilities the ability to explore those new solutions as they determine what technological configurations will best
serve the customers of today and tomorrow.
As we look at the regulatory future of our industry, we see a need for dramatic changes. Utilities need the ability to offer customized
goods and services to some customers while still preserving their universal service provider obligations. We need to revisit the
demarcation of behind-the-meter and front-of-meter technologies. The classifications of generation, transmission and distribution
need to be revisited, as those boundaries are becoming blurred with new technologies. And we most definitely need to consider
transition issues as utilities move from central station generation to cleaner, more distributed, energy resources.
Public Policy and Issue Management
Similar to other companies, AEP has a public policy strategy that seeks to influence decisions being made at Congress, FERC,
state legislatures and regulatory commissions. We do this to mitigate our risk exposure and to help us achieve our business
objectives.
In 2017, AEP formed the Policy Advisory Team (PAT) to better manage public policy issues. This team is composed of senior
executives across AEP, including some of those who represent the company in Washington, D.C., and the state capitals in our
service territory.
The PAT considers policy options on issues of relevance to the company. 
The multi-departmental, cross-function structure of the
PAT supports internal policy analysis and debate. The approach helps ensure that AEP is speaking with one voice on important
public policy considerations and that all employees, and ultimately external stakeholders, are clear on our policy positions and
objectives. The goal of the PAT is to ensure a smoother, more consistent policy strategy across the company.
In strategic discussions about how we can best align ourselves to maximize the customer benefits of new technologies, we talk
about “future-proofing” our company. The pace and scope of change underway in the utility sector is indisputable. In order to adapt
and bring the most value to customers, utilities require a regulatory and legislative framework that allows them the flexibility to
incorporate new technologies, including those we’ve not even envisioned yet. We need a regulatory paradigm that fosters rapid
deployment of creative energy solutions.
Currently, there are two models at play in this country – one in which the utility is transformed into a platform provider at the
distribution level, effectively turning over the customer relationship to the energy market, rather than with the utility. This model is
playing out in New York with its Reforming the Energy Vision (REV). The second model, which we believe is the better approach,
is the utility as a platform that works in concert with the customer relationship and technology providers (e.g., charging stations).
This important to ensure universal access for all customers to clean energy resources and new technologies and to provide the
scope and scale that technology providers need – that a utility can offer – to accelerate environmental, operational and efficiency
benefits from new technologies.One example of the need for change is unfolding in Texas. In 2016, AEP Texas sought approval to install lithium-ion batteries on its
distribution system in a rural area that experiences more outages, for longer periods of time, compared with the rest of the service
territory. Battery installation would be a more cost-effective solution than traditional transmission and distribution upgrades.
In January 2018, Texas regulators rejected our request. However, they acknowledged that the docket raised important issues
about the use of technology to cost-effectively address reliability. They agreed to open a separate rulemaking to develop a
framework that takes these options into account. We support the commission’s opening a rulemaking because it paves the way for
the type of rule changes we believe are needed to cost-effectively and efficiently use non-traditional technologies to solve reliability
issues. But we also have to ask ourselves: “What about the customer? Do they have to wait longer for a solution? What do they do
in the meantime?” We must center our decisions and timing on a framework that works for all customers.
Some commissions are becoming more curious. In 2017, the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO) launched an initiative
called PowerForward to study grid modernization in the state. The PUCO is focusing on new technologies and regulatory
innovation that could benefit customers in the future while modernizing the grid. Through this process, the PUCO has
acknowledged customers’ desire for more technology and innovation in the electric sector, along with the need for a modern
regulatory road map to make it happen. This is the type of structured stakeholder conversation that is needed to enable the
paradigm shift to occur.
New Models
Traditionally, distribution service has been totally within the purview of the local electric utility. This is true whether the retail model in
a state is regulated or competitive. It provides the utility with a direct customer relationship. AEP thinks that relationship is
invaluable for both assuring universal service and in optimizing service delivery; therefore, we want to do everything we can to
preserve it.
New models, however, have arisen. New York and California have led the way in creating energy market platforms at the retail level
very similar to regional wholesale markets. By doing so, these models allow entrants other than utilities to have full retail access to
the customer. This includes those areas that traditionally have been preserved for the distribution/wires utility. It is clear that
technology and potentially competitive opportunities for new entrants are challenging the existing regulatory paradigm. As
distributive, non-wires and behind-the-meter technologies evolve, so will competition where appropriate. 
It is imperative however
that the traditional utility not be precluded from participating in these new markets, thereby ensuring that that these technologies are
available to all and are deployed consistent with customer demands.
States within the AEP footprint are exploring other models, such as Ohio with its PowerForward Initiative. AEP believes
conversations between the utility and regulators early in the process, similar to those ongoing as part of PowerForward, provide for
an optimal model design to seamlessly enable these technologies to customers’ benefit.
Tax Reform
In late December 2017, Congress and President Trump enacted The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act – a major overhaul of the federal tax
structure. AEP supports these tax provisions, which provide benefits to our customers, our communities and our employees. We
believe the tax changes may help to stimulate the economy to support much-needed growth in our service territory.
The reduction in the corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent, effective in 2018, will significantly benefit our customers. The
tax bill also maintains the federal income tax deduction for interest expense for regulated electric companies and preserves the
federal income tax deduction for state and local taxes paid by businesses. Customers will continue to benefit from these tax
deductions. In fact, benefits from federal tax reform have already begun to flow to our customers through lower rates in some of our
jurisdictions.
We are working closely with our regulators to analyze the options for delivering tax benefits to all of our customers, while ensuring
the continued financial health of the company.
Increasing Grid Reliability and Resilience
Continuing to provide a safe, reliable grid remains the core objective of all public policy and regulatory initiatives. Resilience – the
ability of the grid to recover from the impact of a disruptive event – differs from reliability, which is the ability of the power system to
deliver electricity in the quantity and with the quality demanded by users. The resilience topic has renewed interest from the
recovery efforts that have followed major natural disasters in recent years, long-term load planning to meet demand growth, and
concerns over potential grid vulnerability to terrorist attack. AEP is involved in a number of policy initiatives geared toward
increasing grid resilience.
NERC Oversight
Compliance with regulations to protect the reliability and resilience of the power grid is complex, and the rules are becoming
increasingly more stringent and numerous. How we manage these issues directly influences our business. The North American
Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) develops and enforces the rules and standards that protect the North American bulkpower system. To ensure compliance, NERC conducts annual reliability assessments, monitors the bulk power system and
educates, trains and certifies industry personnel. In 2016, this involved extending physical and cyber protection to a broader set of
AEP assets now considered critical.
As a result of this increasing focus on NERC compliance, AEP has revamped its compliance program with increased staffing and
improved governance. In 2018, we restructured our NERC governance to ensure direct line of sight with business units
responsible for compliance. Through this restructuring we are seeking to establish an industry-leading program that collaborates
as one enterprise to meet or exceed all obligations of the NERC Reliability Standards. To achieve this, our intent is to fully adopt a
risk-based approach, seek common solutions and continue to fully cooperate with regulators.
The new structure consists of three layers of governance with distinct responsibilities. The Reliability Compliance Committee
(RCC), which is composed of AEP’s top executives who have accountability for compliance programs, establishes the vision,
mission and culture expectations for AEP’s NERC compliance program.
The Reliability Compliance Strategy Team (RCST) is made up of compliance program senior executives who are charged with
program strategy, health, and developing cross-business unit solutions. The RCST advises the RCC and directs the Reliability
Compliance Implementation Team (RCIT). The RCIT consists of director-level program stakeholders representing compliance
and operations. This group focuses on implementation, advises the RCST and engages subject matter experts and compliance
teams across AEP. We strive to maintain an open, collaborative and transparent workforce that raises issues when necessary and
focuses on operational excellence that goes beyond a culture of compliance and “doing the right thing” consistently.
DOE/FERC Grid Initiative
The Department of Energy (DOE) recently initiated a nationwide conversation about the resilience of the U.S. electric grid. In
August 2017, DOE published the Staff Report to the Secretary on Electricity Markets and Reliability, in which the Department
concluded market distortions threaten the resilience of the grid. To address these threats, in September 2017 DOE released a
formal proposal for FERC to implement reforms that would eliminate the undervaluation of generation assets that contribute to the
resilience and reliability of the grid. The proposal sought to minimize the premature retirements of resources that provide critical
attributes to the grid.
Subsequently, in January 2018, FERC established a docket directing transmission system operators to provide information as to
whether FERC and the markets need to take additional action on system resilience. The goal of the proceeding was to develop a
common understanding among FERC, industry and others of what resilience of the bulk power system means and requires; to
understand how each transmission system operator assesses resilience in its geographic footprint; and to use this information to
evaluate whether additional FERC action regarding resilience is appropriate. AEP is actively involved in these critical
discussions.
AEP is advocating for the use of engineering studies and taking a measured approach to maintaining grid reliability as we
transition to the next generation of power generation and delivery.
PJM’s Capacity and Energy Reforms
PJM will be proposing changes to the energy market in 2018. Although these reforms are still in the stakeholder discussion phase,
they appear to be designed primarily to address price formation during peak load conditions. In addition to dispatch price signal
changes, PJM indicates it will likely try to create additional reserve products to provide more operator flexibility, particularly during
peak load times. PJM believes these reforms will help with grid resilience in generation by providing more accurate market-based
pricing signals for generators. AEP is working both in the stakeholder process and in FERC-related dockets on these price
formation issues and how they affect grid resilience.
On April 9, 2018, PJM filed another set of changes to the Reliability Pricing Model capacity construct. The new filing is meant to
address concerns PJM and FERC have over state initiatives to subsidize certain types of units outside of the market (e.g., the
Illinois zero emissions credit program from nuclear units). The potential impact to AEP is minimal as long as we continue with the
self-supply Fixed Resource Requirement (FRR) capacity plan. However, we will provide comments in this docket supporting
states’ rights with regard to long-term supply planning.
Our generation, transmission and distribution system investments directly affect our customers and shareholders. These long-lived
investments must coexist with prevailing policy considerations such as environmental rules, affordability and reliability. As we
transition to a clean energy future, we are reshaping our asset base in a reliable and affordable manner for our customers while
managing the financial risk for our shareholders and recognizing that the transition will take some time to fully execute.
Lobbying and Political Contributions
The electric utility industry is undergoing a fundamental transformation driven by a number of factors, including new regulations and
public policies. For the benefit of all stakeholders, we actively participate in the political process and in lobbying activities at the
national, state and local levels.
The investments needed to modernize the power grid are in the billions of dollars, and the stakes have never been higher. Tounderstand the policies and regulations that could affect our business, we participate in a number of organizations, lobby on our
customers’ behalf and contribute to political candidates.
Each year, AEP publicly discloses 
lobbying activities
 and 
political contributions
. We also annually report on the portions of
membership dues paid to organizations such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and Edison Electric Institute (EEI) that go
toward lobbying. We post our 
lobbying policy
 online and we discuss political contributions annually with AEP’s Board of Director’s
Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance.
We have been asked by stakeholders why we belong to some organizations whose positions may conflict with AEP’s. In general,
we believe it is better to be at the table and engaged in the discussion whether we are in total agreement or not. When we
disagree, we voice our concerns and work to change the position. Sometimes we prevail, and sometimes we do not, but we strive
to reach an appropriate position, based on the facts available. In addition, many of our customers belong to these organizations,
and this helps us better understand their concerns and needs.
We believe in transparency and active participation in public debate. Our experience is that open, candid discussion and a good-
faith attempt to reach common ground is the best way to do business.
Ethics and Compliance
At AEP, we are committed to health, safety, financial, operational and environmental compliance, while holding ourselves to a high
standard of ethical conduct – always doing what is right. We believe that when it comes to doing the right thing, there is no other
option. We are guided by high standards of ethics and rigorous legal compliance because we believe it is unacceptable to bend
the rules.
AEP’s 
Principles of Business Conduct
 places responsibility for acting legally and ethically with every individual – from the Board
of Directors and management to employees on the front line. We want employees to speak up, ask questions and report potential
violations without fear of retaliation. Our culture supports the interests of both employees and AEP by maintaining a vigilant
approach to practicing compliance and acting with integrity. We will continue to build a reputation of trust by holding people
accountable and taking appropriate actions when necessary.
In 2018, we updated the Principles of Business Conduct to reflect our cultural journey and to provide stronger direction on our
expectations. For example, we enhanced the section on social media to remind employees that they are brand ambassadors,
even when off the job. We also added a section on our supplier diversity initiatives and enhanced our code of conduct with respect
to both sustainability and protection of personally identifiable information.
As our business makes the transition to a clean energy future, we want to be more closely connected with our customers and to be
a good corporate citizen. It is important to us that our employees are engaged members of their communities because they carry
AEP’s reputation with them wherever they go. We strongly urge our employees to uphold our values beyond the workplace and
further our commitment to acting with integrity.All employees must complete annual training on the Principles of Business Conduct to ensure they understand their
responsibilities as AEP employees. AEP’s Board of Directors will also take the training on the updated Principles of Business
Conduct. This training includes evaluation of several distinct scenarios in some of our higher-risk areas, including conflicts of
interest, appropriate use of company assets, fraud, management of personally identifiable information, intellectual property and
insider information and trading. It also provides real-world examples and resources. AEP also offers a confidential 24/7 hotline that
allows employees to report concerns anonymously or to seek guidance on ethical, safety or compliance matters.
Enterprise Security and Risk Management
Like all major infrastructure, the nation’s electric power grid is subject to an array of threats, from naturally caused phenomenon
such as extreme weather to vandalism, terrorism and insider risks that jeopardize reliability, safety and data security. The stakes
are high; our response to an event affects our customers, our reputation and the reliability of the power grid.
Growing risk from third-party products and services has prompted new regulations to protect the grid’s resilience and reliability. As
threats have become more sophisticated and massive breaches have occurred, such as the multiple data breaches that have
occurred elsewhere at companies globally, the reality is that it is a continual struggle to achieve total, complete security. Faced with
this reality, our comprehensive security strategy – known as “Defense in Depth” – assumes a broader range of possibilities, such
as physical theft, unauthorized access to data, and incidental threats as a result of dangers that do not specifically target protected
systems or assets.
In 2017, we incorporated cyber and physical security risks into the new enterprise risk management framework. This provides a
more comprehensive approach to understanding these risks in relation to other enterprise risks. This allows us to make security
decisions based on the level of the risk posed to AEP by looking at our total risk profile and making more informed decisions
based on our priorities and resources.
Cyber and Physical Security
New threats and security risks for the electric power grid are constantly emerging as we continue to connect the Internet of Things
(IoT), including sensors, routers and smart devices that are essential to a modern grid and 24/7 business transactions. Increased
connectivity creates new entry points for potential attackers and poses new challenges for grid security. It is up to each utility to be
prepared to contain and minimize the consequences of cyber and physical security incidents.
The growth of smart energy devices, which are increasingly decentralized and interconnected, create more entry points for bad
actors who want to cause harm. Increased distributed energy resources (DER) are an example of a growing resource type that will
open more opportunity for increased exposure to the grid. As a result, we will need mechanisms to secure company software and
physical assets to protect the bulk electric system (BES) from attacks.
AEP learns from and takes actions based on real-world scenarios affecting global companies such as Sony’s ransomware attack,
Target’s third-party risk, the Equifax data breach and the attack on Ukraine’s electric grid. Our Defense in Depth approach to
cyber and physical security allows us to deal with threats in real time. These strategies include: monitoring, alerting and emergency
response; forensic analysis; disaster recovery; and criminal activity reporting. Through rapid notification and response when
attacks and disasters are underway, we can delay cyberattacks and avoid or mitigate the damage before the full effect of the threat
is realized.
Mitigating these risks requires a coordinated approach to monitoring, response and employee education, the use of cyber tools
and physical protection systems, as well as critical partnerships with the public sector, peer utilities and other industries.AEP classifies all of its bulk electric system facilities based on their
criticality to determine the level of security needed. This approach allows us
to design security controls for new infrastructure from the start.
The cyber and physical security of the BES is regulated by the
federal government through the North American Electric
Reliability Corporation (NERC) Critical Infrastructure
Protection (CIP) Reliability Standards. We are routinely
audited for compliance with federal standards in both cyber and
physical security. In addition, the Board of Directors’ Audit
Committee reviews our cyber and physical security efforts,
which also are reviewed annually with the full Board.
To ensure our security controls are comprehensive, effective
and in compliance with regulatory requirements, we have
established a robust, collaborative security policy management
program that aligns with the National Institute of Standards and
Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity Framework. Our resulting
policies and standards are jointly developed with AEP’s
business areas to maximize adoption and implementation of
standard controls, thereby reducing security risk to AEP.
AEP classifies all of its BES facilities based on their criticality
to determine the level of security needed. This approach allows
us to design security controls for new infrastructure from the
start, building the costs into capital projects as needed. It also
allows us to be more proactive with new and existing
infrastructure while balancing risks with mitigation solutions.
AEP’s third-party risk governance program was developed to identify potential risks introduced through third-party relationships,
such as vendors, software and hardware manufacturers or professional services providers.
Our most important partner in securing AEP’s cyber and physical security is our people. AEP’s Security Awareness program
reduces risk by promoting security best practices and providing awareness education to the AEP workforce. The success of our
program depends on constant communication and reinforcement. Our goal is to protect AEP assets and information, enable the
business to work securely, and assist each employee and contractor in knowing what is necessary to keep AEP secure.
We provide annual training on enterprise security as well as NERC compliance. We also conduct regular phishing email tests and
share trending security initiatives with employees and contractors. Our training is tailored to each audience and covers policies
and standards, domestic violence, workplace aggression, personally identifiable information (PII), password protection, cyber
hygiene, phishing and active shooter situations. Our awareness materials also address on-trend security topics, such as how to
identify phishing emails, classify data and protect personal devices against new vulnerabilities.
We deliver security education through annual web-based training, security-focused newsletters and articles, enterprise security
alerts, local lobby events, and security road shows that engage AEP employees and contractors throughout our regions. We
cultivate face-to-face interaction and communication through our Security Champions program, as well as through AEP
leadership-level security round-table events. Our Security Ambassadors help educate project teams and business areas on the
risks introduced by new initiatives and identify ways to reduce those risks.
In 2018, we initiated a two-year project to assess security risks by evaluating vendors that partner with AEP. By assessing their
security controls through a series of questionnaires and on-site assessments, we will seek to mitigate AEP’s exposure to
excessive risk and comply with supply chain reliability standards.
In addition, FERC is proposing to approve new mandatory reliability standards to protect the BES from cybersecurity risks in the
supply chain. FERC is seeking to expand NERC compliance standards that will help protect the grid from risks such as
tampering, theft, insertion of malicious software and poor manufacturing and development practices.
Coordinated by NERC, GridEx is a biennial threat simulation aimed at coordination efforts during, and recovering from, a wide-
scale cyber and/or physical attack. These exercises simulate attacks on the entire North American electric grid operation
functions. It is a nationwide event encompassing more than 6,000 stakeholders from utilities, NERC and U.S. government
partners. In November 2017, approximately 200 people from across AEP participated in the GridEx IV event. By design, GridEx
is intended to challenge even the most prepared and mature organizations.
While GridEx is a simulation, the threat is real. More than 200,000 customers in the Ukraine lost power in 2015 when hackers
successfully attacked that country’s electric grid. Every day in the U.S., hackers are probing utilities’ computer networks looking for
weaknesses. Exercises such as GridEx help utilities both prepare for and guard against a potentially catastrophic attack.
Physical threats to our electric infrastructure could target substations, office buildings and our people. Our four priorities for
physical security are workplace violence, attacks on employees by customers, attacks on substations and vandalism/copper theft.
We address these priorities through employee training, access control at our facilities and the use of security technology where
appropriate.Managing Risk
Today’s era of disruption from distributed energy resources, digital technologies, and the electrification of other sectors require a
consistent and data-driven Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework. Having a comprehensive implementation plan helps
us to identify risks, address critical gaps and develop a culture that recognizes risk and is empowered to take appropriate action.
AEP’s ERM process looks at all risks, actual and perceived, across all aspects of operations through an integrated risk
management framework. This is the process we use to identify risks, assess the risks and controls, plan mitigation strategies and
monitor the risks. This process informs and prioritizes asset replacement strategies, and enables us to make risk-based
investment management decisions.
AEP’s risk framework has four major categories:
Strategic
 – These are risks that affect our long-term or overall business goals and ability to achieve them.
Financial
 – Potential risks that affect our financing needs, financial standing, and/or reporting requirements.
Operational
 – Those risks that affect our ability to operate the power grid.
Regulatory
 – Risks that affect our legal and compliance requirements.
When assessing risks, AEP categorizes risk impacts into six sub-categories – reliability, compliance and legal, reputational,
financial, safety and strategic – and scores them based on the severity of potential consequences. This approach to risk
management gives us the flexibility we need to respond to events or risks as they unfold.
From a governance perspective, these risks are reported from the appropriate business units or operating companies into the
ERM process. The Chief Risk Officer reports a summary view of risks to the Risk Executive Committee, which is composed of
senior leaders, to illustrate risk ranking and remediation dates and, ultimately, gain consensus on an action plan. This summary is
then reported to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. The catalogue of risks is assigned to a specific Board committee
or the full Board. At the end of the year, the Committee Chair and Lead Director review it to ensure the appropriate discussions
have occurred.
Learn more about AEP’s risk management approach, including how we manage climate-related risk, in our report 
“American
Electric Power: Strategic Vision for a Clean Energy Future.”
Business Continuity and Resilience
Business continuity is about being prepared – having plans in place to respond to an unexpected event, such as a cyberattack or
natural disaster. Business continuity plans mitigate risk to acceptable levels and allow the business to continue functioning
regardless of circumstance.
AEP’s business continuity program is a partnership between our Enterprise Business Continuity & Resilience (EBCR) team,
business units, operating companies, corporate functions, the Crisis Response team and the Infrastructure & Business Continuity
(IBC) team. The IBC, EBCR and Crisis Response teams provide support, project management, expertise and tools to help
business units develop robust plans to minimize business disruptions by decreasing response time, limiting financial impacts and
maintaining customer confidence during a business interruption.
Business continuity planning helps us be prepared when an event happens that disrupts our operations. The threat of a cyber or
physical attack or workplace-related incident is a risk for AEP, as are many other events that could interrupt business operations in
one or all of our facilities.
We have an obligation to maintain service for our customers while keeping our customers and our employees safe. We test our
plans to continuously improve our ability to effectively respond and recover in the event of an emergency. Business continuity must
stay at the forefront in the workplace; our reputation is not based simply on whether we respond, but how effectively and thoroughly
we respond and recover.
We continue to mature our business continuity practices by further aligning resilience functions with operational risk management
through an annual assessment and refinement process that includes:
Business impact analysis
Exercises and drills to test plans
Regular Business Continuity Plan review and updates
Resilience assessments
Semi-annual executive crisis management exercisesRoadmap to increase maturity of the business continuity program
Data Privacy & Protection
AEP collects a lot of personal data from customers, employees and business partners. When they share information with us, they
expect that we are taking every step possible to protect it. We take that responsibility seriously. AEP’s PII (personally identifiable
information) Data Protection Program seeks to protect and secure the personal data we hold related to customers, employees
and contractors.
This includes several protective measures such as blocking
outbound emails containing unencrypted PII, monitoring
employee access to PII, encrypting PII data when the data is
“at rest” (not being used actively), and implementing a PII asset
certification process. Every year we ask data owners to confirm
that the PII in their possession is necessary for business and
that it is properly protected. Removing unnecessary or duplicate
information is an important step in protecting our customers and
others, and for reducing the risk of a loss of PII data.
We launched a Personal Data Portal, which allows PII to be
securely transferred into AEP. This includes information that
was previously transmitted via email or telephone. In 2017, we
also created a management position dedicated to data
protection and privacy. This position sits within the Enterprise
Security organization to strengthen our commitment to
protecting both AEP’s sensitive corporate data and the privacy
of our customers, employees and business partners.
While AEP collects significant amounts of data, we take
appropriate steps to protect the privacy of all the data we
collect.
Statement of AEP’s Board of Directors
The 
AEP Board of Directors
 has assigned responsibility for overseeing the company’s sustainability initiatives to the Board’s
Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance. This report marks the 12th year that AEP has provided a comprehensive
account of its performance, integrating financial with sustainability reporting. The Committee fully supports this approach.
Stakeholders have expressed approval and appreciation for AEP’s leadership with this integrated approach to corporate
reporting.
Throughout the year, the Committee and company management reviewed the company’s sustainability objectives, challenges,
targets and progress. The Committee reviewed and discussed the final text of this report before its adoption of a formal resolution
approving the report.
The 2018 Corporate Accountability Report reflects robust disclosure about AEP’s 2017 performance as well as the company’s
strategic plan. This report outlines AEP’s transition to a clean energy future, including new carbon dioxide emissions reduction
goals; how the company is becoming more agile to drive innovation; advancing technologies for the maximum benefit of our
customers and for grid optimization; and the efforts to prepare our workforce for the future.
The AEP Board of Directors receives frequent reports from management about the company’s sustainability initiatives and
financial reporting, policy matters, and economic performance. These issues are the subject of active discussion at Board
meetings and Board committee meetings.
The Committee believes this document is a reasonable and clear presentation of the company’s plans and of its environmental,
social and financial performance. The Board has emphasized that management will continue to be evaluated by its success in
executing the company’s strategic plan to meet stakeholders’ and the Board’s expectations, including being agile in responding to
changing circumstances while respecting the commitments in this report.
Thomas E. Hoaglin
Lead Director of the AEP Board of Directors
May 2018Audit Statement
AEP Audit Services performed a limited review of selected company performance statements contained within the 2018 AEP
Corporate Accountability Report.
Financial information was reconciled with AEP's audited financial statements and with other sources deemed
appropriate.
Non-financial statements were reconciled with source material and confirmed to be supported.
Forward-looking information was verified as consistent with other public information disclosed by AEP.
Based upon our limited review, we believe the performance information contained within the Report is appropriately stated, and
that the processes followed in accumulating both the financial and nonfinancial information were reasonable.
Andrew B. Reis
Vice President, Audit Services
April 27, 2018
Contact Us
We welcome your feedback about this web site and about our reporting. Hearing from our various stakeholders helps us
understand what concerns them. Please share your comments with us!
For questions regarding AEP’s Corporate Accountability Report or sustainability initiatives, please contact:
Sandy Nessing
Managing Director, Corporate Sustainability 
smnessing@aep.com
Melissa Tominack
Sustainability Coordinator, Sr.
matominack@aep.com
Material Sustainability Issues
In our view, reporting on AEP’s “sustainability performance” is just as important like financial disclosure, and benefits investors and
other stakeholders, including business partners, suppliers and capital providers.
The evolution of corporate sustainability disclosure and reporting has become more detailed and complex, as stakeholders
demand deeper levels of transparency. Stakeholders want to know more about the direct impacts of AEP’s business, as well as
broader social, environmental and governance (ESG) issues and trends. Because sustainability considers a broader scope of
actions and issues, our approach to integrated reporting is one way we emphasize the connections between financial and
nonfinancial performance, as well as demonstrate a high degree of transparency.
Understanding which issues are most important to AEP and our various stakeholders also helps us to identify potential operational
and strategic risks, and issues such as license to operate, regulatory requirements and brand value. 
We also take an industry view
of priority issues. In 2017, the Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) published its second report on 
Priority Sustainability
Issues for the North American Electric Power Industry
 (which AEP participated in).
Also in 2017, AEP engaged with Datamaran, a business intelligence tool using big data and artificial intelligence, to help us
identify and prioritize material issues by scanning the competitive, regulatory and media landscape. A focus group of internal and
external stakeholders validated the universe of issues and shared their perspectives on relative importance, based on stakeholder
interest, regulatory and policy trends, and societal and business imperative.
Stakeholder insights are being analyzed through the lens of AEP’s risk framework to help us categorize risk impacts and/or
opportunities based on six sub-categories: reliability, compliance and legal, reputational, financial, safety, and strategic. 
Our
analysis is also informed by our own ESG business intelligence gathering, peer company/industry research and stakeholder
interviews and/or surveys.Preliminary results indicate internal AEP stakeholders see Workforce Safety & Health, Data/Cyber Security and a Clean
Energy Transition strategy as most important, while external stakeholders see Electricity Efficiency, Stakeholder Dialogue &
Engagement and Climate Change Strategy as most material. What is commonly important to all stakeholders is that we
address climate change and execute a strategy to transform our business toward a clean energy future.
When complete, the analysis will help inform our ongoing strategy for reporting, risk management and stakeholder engagement. In
addition, the material issues analysis will also provide context for development of our new sustainability goals, which link strategy
with operations and financial performance measurement.
2018 Priority Issues:
Sustainability Pillar
Issues
Environmental
Air Emissions
Clean Energy Transition
Electricity Efficiency 
Energy Reliability and Resilience
Environmental Performance
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Sustainable Procurement Practices
Waste
Water
Social
Community support and economic development
Employee safety and health
Engagement and collaboration
Job satisfaction
Public safety and health
Economic
Economic viability of electric utilities
Energy reliability
Energy affordability
Skilled workforce availability
Global Reporting Initiative
AEP’s 2018 Corporate Accountability Report was prepared according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability
Reporting Guidelines Version 4 (G4), and developed in accordance with a core adherence level. The GRI guidelines provide a
voluntary reporting framework used by organizations around the world as the basis for sustainability reporting. We are using the G4
standards, as well as the Electric Utility Sector Supplement, for reporting on industry-specific information.
In 2016, GRI migrated from being a voluntary framework to a set of standards. AEP is not reporting against the standards in this
report. We will evaluate the use of the new standards and determine how to apply them in the future to our already robust
disclosure.
AEP's 2018 GRI Report
AEP's 2017 GRI Report
AEP's 2016 GRI Report
AEP's 2015 GRI Report
Carbon Disclosure Project
AEP’s commitment to transparency includes responding annually to Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) surveys on carbon, water
and supply chain. We have been reporting to CDP for more than a decade on the carbon survey and have participated in the water
survey since it began. These surveys are important to some of our stakeholders, including investors.
CDP is an international, not-for-profit organization providing a global system for companies and cities to measure, disclose,
manage and share vital environmental information. To ensure easy access to our responses for our stakeholders, we are providing
a three year archive of our CDP reports.
2017:Carbon Disclosure Project - AEP's 2017 Response
(PDF)
CDP Water Disclosure Project - AEP's 2017 Response
(PDF)
CDP Supply Chain - AEP's 2017 Response
 (PDF)
2016:
Carbon Disclosure Project - AEP's 2016 Response
(PDF)
CDP Water Disclosure Project - AEP's 2016 Response
 (PDF)
CDP Supply Chain Disclosure Project - AEP's 2016 Response
 (PDF)
2015:
Carbon Disclosure Project - AEP's 2015 Response
 (PDF)
CDP Water Disclosure Project - AEP's 2015 Response
 (PDF)
CDP Supply Chain Disclosure Project - AEP's 2015 Response
 (PDF)
2014:
Carbon Disclosure Project - AEP's 2014 Response
 (PDF)
CDP Water Disclosure Project - AEP's 2014 Response
 (PDF)
CDP Supply Chain Disclosure Project - AEP's 2014 Response
 (PDF)
EEI ESG Pilot
AEP is among several Edison Electric Institute (EEI) member companies piloting the voluntary environmental, social, governance
(ESG) and sustainability-related reporting template for investors. This voluntary effort is in response to the desire for information
from investors and other stakeholders. The template is consistent across the electric sector in terms of accessibility, content,
timing, and presentation. The template includes both qualitative and quantitative information, consisting of five focus areas:
governance, strategy, portfolio, emissions and resources.
The template was developed by EEI under the guidance of an ESG/Sustainability Steering Committee and an
ESG/Sustainability Investor Group. AEP is a member of the EEI ESG/Sustainability Steering Committee and the GHG
Subcommittee.“We are transforming AEP in a world that is in the midst of a massive social, economic,
technological and connectivity evolution that will influence how we do business in the
future. 
By 2022, our goal is to “be digital” – to change the way we organize, behave and
operate to remain competitive, better serve our customers and create sustainable value.” 
-Nick Akins, 
Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer
Renewable Energy
We invite customers to join us in creating solar solutions that
are low-cost and provide universal access to all customers.
Grid Modernization
At AEP, we understand that the growing demands of the
21st century economy will require smart, comprehensive and
sustainable infrastructure solutions.
Sustainable Electricity
Today’s age of technology, innovation and disruption is transforming the electric industry. A changing fuel mix, falling power prices,
increasing demand for renewables, the surge of distributed energy resources, and a deeper focus on cybersecurity and resilience
are the catalysts for change. We have to be agile, innovative and more efficient to respond to this rapidly changing environment
and stay relevant to our customers. We see sustainable electricity as being cleaner, technologically advanced, cost-effective, and
efficient.
We are diversifying our resource mix to serve our customers’ needs, with an eye to the future of an electrified economy – the use of
electricity to power buildings, transportation systems and industrial processes. Our investments to modernize the grid, making it
more secure, reliable and resilient, will enable us to deploy advanced technologies to seize new opportunities for growth. As we
make this transition, we are reducing our environmental footprint – including carbon dioxide (CO
) emissions.
The leading energy company of tomorrow will create new opportunities through diversified service offerings, efficiency gains and
access to new markets, positioning us for sustainable growth. Our vision for a sustainable electricity future means:
Redefining our relationship with our customers
Building a more intelligent network to enable two-way flows of power and information
Meeting the challenge of a changing workforce and adapting to the future of work
Helping customers use energy more efficiently
Diversifying our resources
Strengthening the security of our assets and information
When we think about sustainable electricity, we look across the value stream to include fuel resources as well as transmission and
distribution, energy efficiency, advanced technologies such as battery storage, distributed resources and data analytics that give us
the information we need to proactively operate and maintain the grid more efficiently. That’s what our “all of the above” strategy is
all about. At the center of this is our commitment to deliver an exceptional customer experience.
Moving toward a clean energy economy must be managed carefully to protect the reliability and resilience of the electric grid. At
the same time, we envision a future where electrification across industry sectors creates new opportunities for economic and
business growth, fewer CO
 emissions economy-wide, greater transportation mobility and optimization of the grid for all resources
and technologies.
While this transformation presents extraordinary opportunities for innovation and growth, it also carries risk and responsibility. The
traditional utility business model doesn’t accommodate this new paradigm shift. We need new, forward-looking policies that allow
us to keep pace with today’s environment.
Energy Transformation
The issue of sustainable electricity has been a topic of discussion with our stakeholders for more than a decade. These
discussions have included investors, customers, regulators, environmental groups, credit rating agencies, lenders and public
policymakers, among others. Stakeholders want to know about AEP’s strategy for transitioning to a cleaner energy future.
They ask us about resource diversity, advanced technologies that enable more efficient use of energy, regulations and public
policies that could affect future operations or investments, and our plan for a modern, smarter infrastructure that empowers
customers and creates a more resilient and robust system. Across the board, the question we are asked most frequently is
whether we are sufficiently prepared for the transition to a cleaner energy economy.
Our first obligation is to serve our customers with safe, reliable, reasonably priced electricity and to maintain the reliability and
resilience of the power grid. AEP’s current business strategy and resource plans reflect a comprehensive and diverse plan to meet
those needs efficiently and cost-effectively. Our plan includes:
Near-term investments in renewable energy within and outside of our traditional service territory
Technology deployment (e.g., energy storage)
Modernization of the grid to optimize all resources and technologies with significant investments in our transmission and
distribution systems
Increased use of low-carbon-emitting generation resources, such as natural gas
A variety of ownership options such as Purchased Power Agreements (PPAs)
Advancement of our integrated resource plans with regulators
2
2Energy efficiency and savings through technology, load management and conservation programs on both sides of the
meter
Demand response programs
Increased integration of distributed resources, including community and large-scale renewables
Optimization of our existing generating fleet
Support for advancing low-carbon fossil technologies
AEP has already made significant progress in reducing carbon emissions, from our early commitment as a founding member of
the Chicago Climate Exchange. In February 2018, AEP announced new CO
 emissions reduction goals – to reduce CO
emissions from AEP generating facilities by 60 percent from 2000 levels by 2030; and a longer-term goal to reduce CO
emissions from AEP generating facilities by 80 percent by 2050, including our plan for achievement.
These goals reflect our current business strategy but will challenge us as our operating environment evolves. A combination of
factors gives us confidence in our ability to achieve these reductions, including an aging coal fleet, our growing investments in
clean energy and the potential of new and emerging technologies to make the power system more efficient, more decentralized,
fully integrated and digitized. Read more about this in 
American Electric Power: Strategic Vision for a Clean Energy Future.
Resource Planning & Diversity
Our vertically integrated utilities are obligated to have an adequate supply of generating capacity and energy to meet their
customers’ needs. To meet this obligation in a cost-effective manner, they engage in long-term resource planning. AEP’s planning
process helps our states plan their energy and capacity needs over time and considers available resource and market options to
achieve the right mix of resources at reasonable costs for our customers.
Integrated Resource Plans (IRP) provide a snapshot of a potential future generating mix, based on today’s assumptions. An IRP
is not a commitment to a specific course of action, as the future is uncertain and decisions relating to AEP's generation resources
are subject to regulatory approval. Rather, it is a roadmap that shows the amount, timing, cost and type of potential future resource
additions that meet the customers’ future resource needs at a reasonable cost.
Our publicly filed IRPs use a planning horizon of 10 to 20 years. They demonstrate how we will meet customer demands for
reliable and affordable energy and allow us to estimate future emissions from our generation resources. Our current plans project
that we can achieve a 60 percent reduction in CO
 emissions from 2000 emission levels by 2030 by focusing on near-term
investments in renewable energy, and incorporating an assessment of potential future carbon costs and expected lives of our
generating resources in all of our planning and investment decisions. The potential for carbon regulation has been part of our IRP
process for many years and provides an important market signal when we are determining resource needs and costs.
To develop our IRPs, we systematically evaluate and balance multiple issues, including the increasingly complex existing and
pending environmental regulations, technology advancements, changing pricing fundamentals, load growth forecasts, energy
efficiency advancements, growth in customer-adopted distributed resources and other complexities. Many IRP processes also
include stakeholder outreach.
Once an IRP is developed, it is filed with the state regulatory commission. In some states, the commission will approve the IRP,
determining that the plan is reasonable and in the public interest for its intended purpose. AEP’s resource planning, as reflected in
our IRPs, sets a clear path forward to reducing our carbon footprint.
Renewables
In 2017, more than half of new generation sources brought online in the U.S. were renewables, according to the U.S. Energy
Information Administration (EIA). Historically, hydroelectric power provided the largest share of renewable energy in the U.S. If the
growth of wind generation continues as projected, it will surpass hydroelectric power in 2018 for the first time.
Renewable energy is an important part of our strategy for a clean energy future. Our new sustainability goal is to increase regulated
renewable energy on our system by approximately 8,000 MW (per our integrated resource plans and pending regulatory approval)
by 2030 and continue to expand competitive, contracted renewables. This goal supports our energy transition sustainability goals
and directly supports our carbon reduction goals.
AEP is further developing its renewable portfolio within our Generation and Marketing business segment. Activities include
working directly with wholesale and large retail customers to provide tailored solutions based upon market knowledge, technology
innovations and deal structuring. This could include distributed solar, wind, combined heat and power, energy storage, waste heat
recovery, energy efficiency, peaking generation and other forms of cost-reducing energy technologies. AEP’s Energy Supply team
also develops and/or acquires large-scale renewable generation projects that are backed with long-term contracts.
Although many states set voluntary or mandated renewable
2
2
2
2As technology advances, we envision universal solar or wind projects that
incorporate low-cost energy storage to minimize or smooth intermittency on
the grid.
portfolio standards, the driving forces today behind renewable
development are that it is economical and many customers
want clean energy at a reasonable cost. And, they are asking
their energy companies to work with them to make it happen.
As technology advances, we envision universal solar or wind
projects that incorporate low-cost energy storage to minimize or
smooth intermittency on the grid. We are working with some of
our large customers on this type of approach because it can
provide a dual benefit of clean energy and resilience for the
customer and the grid.
For example, AEP is a member of the World Resources
Institute’s Clean Power Council. This group of utilities and
some of their largest commercial and industrial customers are
engaged in a two-year collaboration to enable rapid
deployment of a low carbon energy supply through innovative
and mutually beneficial solutions.
We believe we are best positioned to meet our customers’
clean energy needs. 
We are also committed to being agile to
meet the different needs of all of our customers. It’s important to
AEP that we 
achieve the economies of scale that individual
customers cannot, because we can ensure universal access to
clean energy while realizing the same environmental benefits and providing more effective integration with the grid. We have the
knowledge and expertise to cost-effectively and efficiently develop universal solar projects to expand access to clean energy to
more customers rather than the few who can afford private solar panels. We are also forming strategic partnerships to build upon
our expertise and offer more choices to our customers.
We invite customers, large and small, to join us in creating solar solutions that are low-cost and provide universal access to all
customers, including those without the financial means or those who don’t have “solar friendly” property.
Regulated RenewablesAEP took major steps in 2017 to expand its regulated renewable portfolio throughout its service territory. The largest project is the
proposed Wind Catcher Energy Connection, which includes the acquisition of a 2,000 megawatt (MW) wind farm in the Oklahoma
Panhandle and construction of a dedicated generation tie line to the Tulsa area, where the existing electrical grid will deliver
“congestion free” wind energy to customers.
The Wind Catcher facility, being developed by Invenergy, will be
the largest contiguous wind farm in America. If approved by
regulators, the $4.5 billion project will deliver nearly 9 million
megawatt-hours of new, low-cost wind energy per year and
produce significant savings to more than 1 million customers in
Oklahoma, Arkansas, Louisiana and Texas. Wind Catcher is
expected to save customers more than $6 billion over the 25-
year life of the wind farm. The Public Service Company of
Oklahoma (PSO) will own 30 percent of the project, and
Southwestern Electric Power Company (SWEPCO) will own
70 percent.
PSO and SWEPCO held 17 open houses in communities
along the initial power line study route in late 2017 and early
2018. Landowners, community members and elected officials
were invited to in-person conversations with planners, engineers, routing experts and right-of-way and construction representatives.
Over 1,500 people attended the open house events. Local field representatives continue to respond daily to inquiries from the
public and attend local community events to provide more information about the many benefits of the project.
Wind energy is a great economic driver for this region of the country since it can coexist with agricultural production and provide
farmers and ranchers with additional income for the use of their land. In some cases, this arrangement has helped customers save
their family farms. Additional property tax revenues from new investments will provide rural communities with funding for local
needs.
There are also clear environmental benefits. The wind farm would not produce carbon emissions and would not require water to
generate electricity, which is important in a region that is often prone to droughts.
The project is subject to review by utility regulators in
Oklahoma, Arkansas, Louisiana and Texas, as well as the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Regulatory reviews
began in mid-2017 after PSO and SWEPCO filed
applications with their state commissions. Hearings continue in
the various jurisdictions and decisions are expected this spring.
In February 2018, SWEPCO announced a settlement
agreement with stakeholders in Arkansas, including the
Arkansas Public Service Commission (APSC) staff, State
Attorney General, Walmart Stores, Inc. and Sam’s West, Inc.
The agreement includes a number of project performance
guarantees. A final decision by the APSC is pending.
In March 2018, PSO announced a settlement with Walmart that
also includes performance guarantees. With the guarantees,
SWEPCO and PSO are demonstrating their commitment and
ability to deliver customer benefits from Wind Catcher.
In April 2018, SWEPCO announced a settlement agreement in
the Louisiana Public Service Commission’s (LPSC) review of
the project. The agreement includes SWEPCO, the LPSC
General Staff, Walmart and Sam’s West, Inc. It includes several
guarantees, including a cap on construction costs and qualification for 100 percent of the federal Production Tax Credits.
In April 2018, PSO, Oklahoma Industrial Energy Consumers (OIEC) and Walmart reached a settlement agreement on the project.
Together, PSO, OIEC and Walmart are asking the Oklahoma Corporation Commission to approve the project under the terms of
the settlement agreement, which imposes limits on construction costs, improves performance guarantees and guarantees
customer savings over at the least the first ten years, even if natural gas prices stay at historically low levels and if federal tax
changes occur that affect the economics of the project. Reviews are still pending in Texas and at the FERC as well.
In January 2018, Appalachian Power Company (APCo) began receiving 120 MW of new wind generation from a universal wind
farm in Indiana, serving customers in Virginia and West Virginia. Through a 20-year purchased power agreement, the energy from
the Bluff Point Wind Energy Center in Indiana increased APCo’s total wind generation to 495 MW and is consistent with its
forward-looking resource plans to serve customers.In 2017, APCo laid the groundwork for its first photovoltaic solar generation project to be built in Rustburg, Virginia. The 15 MW
Depot Solar Center will be built and operated by Coronal Energy. APCo signed a 20-year purchased power agreement to receive
the energy from the solar array to serve its customers. The Depot Solar Center is expected to be operational by December 2020
and will be interconnected directly to APCo’s system at its Rustburg substation.
This proposed project will support economic growth in that region from companies that want to receive energy from renewable
energy resources. Customers will benefit through cost savings and reduced risk and exposure to the volatility in the PJM wholesale
power market.
Today, APCo produces 1,900 gigawatt-hours of energy annually from wind- and hydro-power – enough power to supply 150,000
homes. APCO continues to evaluate opportunities to increase the amount of renewable energy it provides to serve its customers.
In 2017, AEP Ohio sought proposals for 400 MW of universal-scale solar energy generation resources and 250 MW of wind
generation resources in the state. These proposals would help fulfill a 2016 agreement approved by the Public Utilities
Commission of Ohio (PUCO), enabling AEP Ohio to pursue development of more solar and wind energy in the state, including
400 MW of solar and 500 MW of wind generation. All projects must be approved by the PUCO.
Customers in Ohio currently receive renewable generation service from the Wyandot Solar Farm near Upper Sandusky, Ohio,
Fowler Ridge in Benton County, Indiana, and Timber Road in Paulding County, Ohio. Wyandot produces 10 MW of energy, and
Fowler Ridge and Timber Road each produce about 100 MW.
These projects are reflective of customer requests for clean energy, as well as the economic development potential they provide for
our communities. These examples also reflect some of the many transitions our operating companies are making toward a
sustainable clean energy future.
Contracted Renewables
As AEP seeks to balance its resource portfolio, we are looking beyond our traditional service territory for investments. Our
advantage is that we bring a low cost of capital and project structuring expertise to create solutions that are attractive to customers.
This is especially appealing to companies, universities and municipalities that often have their own renewable energy goals.
Between 2018 and 2020, AEP intends to invest up to $1.2 billion in contracted renewables to provide the energy solutions that
customers want and deliver a cleaner emission profile in the process.
We are doing this through our two energy subsidiaries – AEP OnSite Partners and AEP Renewables – that work with large users
of energy to help them achieve their specific goals. Activities include working directly with wholesale and large retail customers to
provide tailored solutions that include distributed solar, wind, combined heat and power, energy storage, waste heat recovery,
energy efficiency, peaking generation and other forms of cost-reducing energy technologies.
OnSite Partners offers energy solutions for customers that could include applying a technology, such as combined heat and power,
reducing emissions or lowering a customer’s cost and energy profile. The company is building a portfolio of distributed energy
solutions and currently owns projects operating in 12 states, including 57 MW of installed solar capacity, and another 19 MW of
solar projects under construction.+ click to enlarge
+ click to enlarge
Many of the investments made by AEP Renewables and AEP OnSite Partners are outside of our traditional service territory,
which allows us to grow beyond our regular footprint. For example, OnSite Partners has joined with the unregulated subsidiary of
PNM Resources to invest in additional renewable generation solutions for customers and other public power entities, primarily in
the state of New Mexico.
AEP Renewables invests in large-scale renewable projects backed by long-term contracts. During 2016 and 2017, AEP
Renewables acquired 90 MW of solar projects in California, Nevada and Utah.
In early 2018, AEP’s competitive business formed a joint partnership to repower 311 MW at two previously wholly-owned Texas
wind farms. AEP now owns 79.9 percent of each wind farm.The non-affiliated partner contributed full turbine sets to each wind farm
in exchange for a 20 percent interest in the partnership.
Coal Fleet Optimization
While coal is a smaller portion of our fuel portfolio today than in the past, it remains an important resource and will be for the
foreseeable future. Flexibility in generation resources is important to managing the intermittency of distributed energy resources
and maintaining grid reliability. In February 2018, coal represented 47 percent of AEP’s generating capacity, compared with 70
percent in 2005.
Coal-fueled generating facilities have the ability to store coal onsite to supply power as required. In contrast, natural gas generating
facilities rely on gas as a “just in time” fuel that is delivered in real time, without backup, unless the plant has the ability to run on dual
fuels. Even in that case, the backup supply is typically only a few days and does not equate to the resilience of coal inventory on
site at a coal plant.
In a significant event that impacts grid reliability, we rely on a variety of resources to meet increased electricity demand. We know
from experience that the system is best able to meet demand when there are diverse, resilient generation resources to draw from.
In the PJM region during the first cold spell in January 2018, coal and nuclear-fueled generation made up as much as 65 percent
of the resources available and able to meet higher levels of power demand. Natural gas, which is increasingly used as a 24/7
resource for baseload power generation, provided less than 25 percent of the electricity load during that time.
AEP has retired about 25 percent of its coal-fueled generating capacity. The remaining coal units in the fleet are equipped (or are
in the process of being equipped) with environmental controls to assure compliance with current regulations. These units provide
critical 24/7 capacity and other services to the grid that ensure reliable, uninterrupted electricity for customers. At the same time,
the use of coal will change in the future. Lower natural gas prices, operational cost structures and seasonal capacity needs will
dictate when coal units are dispatched to serve customers.
Because coal will continue to be important to a reliable, diverse and secure energy mix, we have planned additional investments+ click to enlarge
from 2018 through 2025 to comply with new environmental regulations that keep our fossil-fueled generating capacity available to
serve customers.
However, we are managing the investments in and operation of our coal fleet differently than in the past, based on the remaining
life of these important assets. By 2030, more than one-half of AEP’s coal units will be within a decade or less of their typical useful
life of 60 years. When they are retired, they will be replaced with cleaner forms of generation, including renewables and highly
efficient natural gas. Until that time, we need these units to serve our customers for as long as is economically and operationally
appropriate.
Today, we manage the remaining coal fleet to reduce the need for capital investment over time, allowing us to optimize the
operation of the units, as well as investment and depreciation rates. This approach delivers value to both customers and
shareholders.
Although we have no plans to build another coal plant, we continue to monitor the development of technologies for carbon capture
and storage and utilization. Should any of these technologies be demonstrated commercially to improve the scalability and cost-
competitiveness of low-carbon fossil-fueled power generation in the future, we would want to have those technology options
available for consideration.
To support development, demonstration and deployment of these technologies, the industry, along with the Electric Power
Research Institute, the U.S. Department of Energy, technology suppliers and academia, is working to develop state-of-the-art
processes, equipment and components, new metal alloys, alternative materials, and advanced manufacturing techniques, all of
which could have beneficial impact on the industry.
Learn more about AEP’s strategic vision for reducing carbon emissions
Natural Gas
In 2017, natural gas accounted for 31 percent of fuels used to generate electricity in the United States. According to the U.S.
Energy Information Administration (EIA), natural gas has surpassed coal as the main fuel for electricity generation and will
continue to grow its share of power production through 2050. AEP’s consumption of natural gas to generate electricity by our
regulated utilities in 2017 was down by 17 percent from 2016, largely due to higher natural gas prices, which caused natural gas
plants to be dispatched less frequently. As natural gas becomes an increasingly important baseload resource for the future, price,
availability and security of supply become higher priorities.
Natural gas is fundamental to our resource portfolio as we seek to diversify while maintaining the reliability and resilience of the
power grid. As wind and solar capacity increases, they need a back-up source of power to ensure the grid operates uninterrupted.
Natural gas provides the flexibility renewables need due to their intermittency. Natural gas is also cleaner than coal and 
is
abundant.
Natural gas emits approximately 50 percent less carbon dioxide emissions compared with coal when burned to generate
electricity. And high-efficiency combined-cycle natural gas plants can be built and operated with fewer environmental control
systems than a coal-fueled plant. Since 2005, AEP has added over 3,000 MW of natural gas generating capacity to our portfolio,
and we anticipate it will continue to grow.Appalachian Power’s Clinch River Plant began removal of the three
precipitators at the plant that were installed in 1975 to remove more than 99
percent of dry ash from the exhaust gas produced by the Plant’s coal
burners. Two of the plant’s three coal units have been converted to natural
gas; one unit was retired in 2015.
Nuclear energy is one of the most reliable sources of electricity that is
carbon-free. AEP’s Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant in Bridgman, Mich. can
provide 2,278 MW of electricity when operating at full power.
We remain concerned that an overreliance on any single
resource comes with great risk to the power grid and our
customers. If our industry becomes overly dependent on natural
gas generation and, at the same time, the transportation sector
ramps up natural gas use and exports of domestic natural gas
production continue, our customers will be more exposed to this
historically volatile natural gas market. This is why we strongly
advocate for an appropriate resource mix.
The deliverability of natural gas is critical, especially during
peak demand periods and when variable resources, such as
renewables, are not available. This is why several of our natural
gas plants are connected to at least two pipelines or have
alternative fuel capabilities. This gives us greater access to
competitive supplies and reliable delivery. We continue to work
with regulators to align the needs and interests of the gas and
electric industries to gain more certainty and flexibility when
procuring and scheduling natural gas for our units.
Currently, the majority of gas industry security issues (cyber and
physical) are addressed through voluntary guidelines, which is
concerning to AEP. 
The North American Electric Reliability
Corporation (NERC) was created by FERC through the
Energy Policy Act of 2005 as the protector of electric grid
reliability and security, a function NERC takes very seriously.
However, NERC currently does not have jurisdiction over the
natural gas industry. As the electric industry becomes ever more
reliant on the natural gas industry, the disparity in regulation is of
growing concern.
Nuclear and Hydroelectric
Power
For decades, carbon-free electricity has been part of AEP’s
generating portfolio. Customers in several states benefit from AEP’s operation of nuclear and hydroelectric generation.
Nuclear energy is one of the most reliable sources of electricity
that is carbon-free. AEP’s Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant in
Bridgman, Mich. can provide 2,278 MW of electricity when
operating at full power. The plant’s two units are located along
Lake Michigan’s eastern shore, producing electricity to serve
our customers in Michigan and Indiana.
Cook’s two units were originally designed for a 40-year life, but
in 2005 the licenses were extended by 20 years to 2034 for
Unit 1 and 2037 for Unit 2. At the end of 2017, Unit 2 entered
its new 20-year license renewal period, after completing 40
years of reliable service to the region. In early 2017, Unit 2
completed a refueling outage that lasted for 89 days. In addition
to refueling the reactor and performing regular maintenance and
testing work, we replaced the main turbine and baffle bolts,
which support internal components of the reactor vessel. In
March 2018, Unit 2 began its twenty-third refueling outage.
A $1.16 billion Life Cycle Management (LCM) project was
initiated to determine which components would need to be
replaced for the longer plant life. Unit 1 turbines were replaced
following a blade failure in 2008, so Unit 2’s turbine
replacement became the centerpiece of the 117 LCM projects.
The Cook Plant is part of an industry wide multi-year strategy to
transform the industry and ensure the plant’s long-term viability
for customers and to protect the environment. The strategy, called Delivering the Nuclear Promise, identifies efficiency measures;
adopts best practices; and applies new technology solutions that improve operations, reduce costs and 
drive regulatory and
market change to ensure nuclear energy facilities are fully recognized for their value and don’t succumb to premature reactorretirements.
Another clean energy resource serving our customers for more than a century is hydroelectric power. AEP has 884 MW of hydro
and pumped storage on its system, serving customers in five states.
Energy Efficiency & Demand Response
Today, the efficient use of energy goes beyond turning the lights off, changing light bulbs or turning down the thermostat. We view
energy efficiency as a readily deployable, relatively low-cost and clean energy resource that provides many benefits to customers
and the environment.
Energy efficiency reduces consumption by incorporating energy efficiency improvements in customers’ homes and businesses; the
trade-off is the up-front investment in building, appliance and/or equipment modification in upgrading or switching to new
technology. Beyond changing human behaviors, we are also deploying smart technologies such as Volt VAR to improve efficiency
on the distribution grid. And we are exploring new ways to manage load on the distribution system that are more efficient, can delay
the need for new generation sources and provide incentives to customers. We are currently piloting new customer programs to test
new technologies.
Residential customers of AEP Ohio who have smart meters can participate in a home energy management program that allows
them to manage their energy use in real-time. Through the 
It’s Your Power 
 
program, customers can download an app that allows
them to automate and control smart devices as well as receive minute-by-minute updates on the energy their home is using. Other
benefits of the program include the ability to remotely adjust their thermostat, set a budget goal for electricity usage and pay their
bill online.
In January 2018, AEP Ohio launched a new online energy efficiency marketplace, a one-stop shop for its customers to save
energy, money and time. The 
AEP Ohio Energy Efficiency Marketplace
 analyzes data on more than 50,000 energy-efficient
products, such as appliances, televisions, smart thermostats and water heaters. Customers can go online and find prices,
consumer ratings, energy efficiency ratings and product details in one convenient spot to help them find the most efficient products
at the lowest prices.
IM Home, Indiana Michigan Power Company’s innovative home energy management program allows customers to use a mobile
app and Wi-Fi-enabled thermostat to control their energy use at any time. The program can automatically pick the best time to cool
the home, using the least amount of energy, according to the customer’s comfort preferences. The smart thermostat program gives
customers year-round energy savings.
IM Home began in Indiana in May 2017 and has been expanded to Michigan customers. As we analyze results from these
initiatives, we are taking a hard look at the long-term viability of the different technologies that are in the market today, many of
which are not yet proven. While technology is critical to our digital future, we have a responsibility to invest in the right technologies
that support the grid and serve customers’ needs. However, we recognize there are risks associated with these investments, and
we manage them carefully. To create the future we envision and that enables the highest customer value, risk and reward go hand-
in-hand.2017 Energy Efficiency Results
Today, AEP offers customers over 115 energy efficiency programs. In 2017, these programs were credited with more than 1
million megawatt hours (MWh) of energy reduction and more than 250 megawatts (MW) of demand reduction, with associated
program costs of approximately $185 million.
Since these programs began in 2008, the energy efficiency programs we have implemented have reduced annual consumption by
over 7 million MWh and peak demand by approximately 2,280 MWs. We estimate our companies have spent approximately $1.2
billion during that time to achieve these results.
We have also taken measures to reduce energy consumption in
nearly 280 AEP office buildings and service centers. The
kilowatt-hour (kWh) usage, when normalized for weather, was
reduced by 32 percent in 2017 as compared to the 2007
baseline. The dollar savings from the reduced energy
consumption was approximately $6.4 million in cost savings in
2017. We achieved these energy consumption reductions
mostly through equipment investments, such as new lighting,
heating and cooling systems, along with employee education.
In April 2018, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
announced its annual ENERGY STAR
 awards for businesses
and organizations that have made outstanding contributions to
protecting the environment through superior energy efficiency
achievements. AEP Ohio and Southwestern Electric Power
Company (SWEPCO) were recognized as ENERGY STAR
Partner of the Year – Sustained Excellence winners. Public
Service Company of Oklahoma (PSO) received the ENERGY
STAR Partner of the Year – Energy Efficiency Program
Delivery award.
In 2017, the Kentucky Public Service Commission suspended
most of Kentucky Power Company’s energy efficiency
programs, pending a review of program costs. The suspension
took effect in January 2018 and includes a monthly bill credit for
customers. Kentucky Power previously was required to increase spending on energy efficiency to $6 million annually on all of its
energy efficiency programs. The PSC ordered the discontinuation of that obligation while it reviews the cost-effectiveness of the
program. Low-income programs were kept in place.
Demand Response
®The number of net energy metering (NEM) customers in AEP’s footprint is
relatively modest but is growing. We continue to advocate for fair, equitable
and sustainable solutions to NEM.
Demand response supports reliability of the power grid by helping to reduce load during peak demand periods. Demand-side
management includes company-sponsored programs and rate structures that encourage customers to reduce energy consumption
during these peak demand periods. Within each of AEP’s state-integrated resource plans, demand-side resources and other
smart grid-related projects such as Volt VAR Optimization (VVO) are modeled on the same economic basis as supply-side
generating resources.
Peak demand is reported in megawatts and is the amount of power used at the time of maximum power usage. Peak demand
periods vary across AEP’s service territory. For example, Appalachian Power Company’s system peak generally occurs on a
winter weekday morning, when electric heating and appliance usage are happening at the same time that commercial equipment
and industrial machinery are ramping up electric use. 
Public Service Company of Oklahoma’s system, on the other hand, peak
typically occurs in the afternoon of a summer weekday, as people get home from work or school and increase their use of air
conditioners and fans while the demand from commercial and industrial customers remains high.
Historically, as peak demand grows with the economy and population, new capacity would ultimately be needed. AEP can defer
building new power plants by developing interruptible contracts with customers to allow AEP to “interrupt” their power consumption
during peak times in exchange for reduced rates.
Distributed Energy Resources
Integrating distributed energy resources (DER) into the grid presents both challenges and opportunities for the electric power
industry. This requires changes to traditional business models, strategic partnerships and regulatory reforms – all while maintaining
reliability and security of the grid. To fully optimize the power grid, we need to play a role in how these technologies are integrated.
DERs are smaller power sources that can work together – such
as advanced renewable technology, small natural gas-fueled
engines, turbines and fuel cells – to meet demand. Widespread
deployment of DERs requires planning and coordination to
integrate them with the grid. These are often deployed as
demand-side technologies by our customers.
As power from more and more alternative energy sources
enters the grid, we face significant operational challenges.
These include maintaining grid reliability when voltage levels
vary, and managing different interconnection standards that
exist in different parts of the country. The power industry is
focusing on how to balance load when excess power is
generated and flows back through the grid from different
technology interfaces.
AEP’s Transmission, Distribution and Generation teams are
collaborating to address these changing grid dynamics. For
example, Transmission and Distribution are participating in
discussions at the regional transmission organization (RTO)
and industry level to address the opportunities and challenges
that high penetration of DERs on the grid creates. Increasing
amounts of DER can change how the distribution system
interacts with the transmission system and may transform
distribution systems into active sources for both energy and
essential reliability services.
We need to understand and plan for these dramatic changes, which can alter the flow of power as well as the responses to various
types of disturbances, so we can integrate them in the planning and operation of the grid. Existing processes in forecasting,
modeling, operations, system protection and planning will all need review to adapt to changes that will occur as DER penetration
increases.
Large industrial and commercial customers have been the early adopters of local generation, where energy managers want more
control over their systems, lower costs and increased reliability of the power that drives their businesses and keeps them
competitive. The economics of local generation, particularly private solar, continue to improve, increasing their adoption rate.
Examples of local generation systems in use by residential, commercial and industrial
customers
Residential sector
Commercial and Industrial Sector
Solar photovoltaic panels
Solar photovoltaic panelsWhile forklifts have historically used internal combustion engines and fossil
fuels, electric technology advancements allow users to achieve substantial
benefits.
Small wind turbines
Wind
Natural gas fuel cells
Natural gas or biogas fuel cells
Emergency backup generators
Reciprocating internal combustion engines, including back-up
generators
Combined heat and power systems
Net Energy Metering
As distributed generation (DG) continues to grow, debate over the continued need for and structure of net energy metering (NEM)
rules continues in both regulatory and legislative arenas across the country. The number of NEM customers in AEP’s footprint is
relatively modest but is growing.
At the end of 2017, 4,464 net metering (solar and wind distributed generation and other net metering) installations with a capacity
of approximately 92 MW were on the grid in AEP’s service territory. Most of them are private solar generators who have installed
rooftop solar. The discussion focuses on the value of the grid and who pays to use it.
AEP continues to advocate for fair, equitable and sustainable solutions to NEM. We believe the policies around NEM should
ensure that all customers pay for the grid services they use, thus ensuring that all customers pay a just and reasonable rate. We
continue to review compensation policies and mechanisms in other states to learn what would work best for our customers.
State legislatures are beginning to take action on this complex electric rate issue. In Indiana, legislation that would phase out net
metering in that state by 2047 was signed by the governor in May 2017. In January 2018, legislation was introduced in Kentucky to
lower the amount paid to DG customers and to require them to pay their share to maintain the regional electric grid.
Electrification
Electrification of end-use technologies and services in industry, buildings and the transportation sector, combined with cleaner
electricity from the grid, creates a clear pathway for a low-carbon future and universal access to clean energy. The road to
electrification is complex and challenging, but the long-term reward is significant for the environment, society and business.
Electrification technologies are impacting the grid and require a measured approach to ensure the technology and infrastructure
are in place to meet customers’ needs, as well as have the right policies and regulations in place to support them. AEP is working
with technology and research partners, customers, policymakers and other stakeholders to understand the implications and
opportunities of large-scale electrification as we transform to a digital economy.
AEP’s current electrification program educates commercial
and industrial customers about the benefits of electric
technologies. It empowers customers to make more informed
energy decisions that lead to better productivity, lower total cost
of ownership, greater competitiveness, improved workforce
safety and, in many cases, fewer environmental impacts.
In 2017, we partnered with the Electric Power Research
Institute (EPRI) to create an Electrification Implementation
Plan, based on the results of a previous market potential study.
Through the study, we learned that four technologies present the
highest market potential throughout AEP’s service territory,
providing significant benefits to customers. These include:
Infrared (IR) curing and drying
 
- IR is commonly used
to dry textiles and paper products, heat metals and
plastics, and dry and cure paint. Electrifying this process
is more energy efficient and flexible in terms of achieving
the desired heating intensity compared with using natural
gas.
Pipeline compression
 – Compressor stations for
natural gas pipelines serve as a type of engine that
compresses gas (increases its pressure) to provide the
energy needed to move the gas through the pipeline. Electrification of compressors can improve efficiency and
operations, as well as reduce air emissions.AEP must maintain the distribution system to meet the needs of an
expanding EV marketplace. We are uniquely positioned to manage
impending demand impacts on the grid.
Induction surface treatment
 – Induction hardening uses electromagnetic fields to induce electric currents into metal,
rapidly heating the steel and then rapidly cooling (quenching) it to increase hardness and durability. The power and
frequency of the electromagnetic fields can be adjusted to regulate the depth and temperature of surface heating.
Underlying metal layers remain unaffected.
Forklifts
 – While forklifts have historically used internal combustion engines and fossil fuels, electric technology
advancements allow users to achieve substantial benefits. In addition to being more energy efficient, they are better for
the environment, allow service in challenging enclosed spaces, and reduce noise while increasing safety.
We are currently working with customers who have electrification opportunities as well as exploring additional electrification
technologies that would benefit our customers, optimize the grid and provide growth opportunities for AEP.
Electric Vehicles
Our objective is to increase adoption of electric vehicles in our service territory and
encourage EV charging that optimizes the use of the grid so that all customers benefit.
There is an electric mobility revolution underway that is reshaping business models, spurring more investment in new infrastructure
and sparking new and innovative solutions to provide flexibility and resilience to the grid. Electric vehicles (EVs) are a crucial
component of our future sustainable economy, and utilities are uniquely positioned to support their use.
EV adoption and the use of electric vehicle supply equipment
(EVSE) (e.g., chargers) are increasing. EV adoption at-scale
promises substantial environmental and economic benefits for
society. It will also have substantial impacts on many major
industries, including the electric utility industry. Increased EV
penetration will bring challenges and opportunities for AEP,
such as the need to manage operational grid impacts, and the
creation of a new frontier of engagement with customers. How
AEP addresses these issues can help to realize our goals of
increasing the number of electric vehicles in our service
territories, and incentivizing EV charging to optimize the grid.
To date, the market has not been able to develop the EV
infrastructure needed on its own. That’s why we think AEP is
well-positioned to play an important role in supporting EV
market development. Lack of charging infrastructure is a critical
barrier to the electrification of transportation. We believe that
policymakers can leverage the inherent and unique attributes
and capabilities of regulated electric utilities to help jumpstart
and support development of EV charging infrastructure.
AEP EV/EVSE initiative objectives:
Customer Engagement Objectives:
Provide a vehicle charging 
customer experience that is valuable, positive, and low-stress
.
Support mobility customer transportation needs
 with respect to sustainability, energy efficiency, cost, etc.
Develop and provide 
energy solutions and benefits that are shared by all customers
.
Strategic/Operational Objectives:
Enhance our strategic position as the 
enabler and integrator of energy solutions
 into the grid.
Business Model Objectives:
Future load growth will help 
offset the need for rate increases
.
Develop programs and price signals to optimize the programs.
AEP must maintain the distribution system to meet the needs of an expanding EV marketplace. We are uniquely positioned toToday, we are building upon our legacy infrastructure and modernizing it to
create a system that is accessible to all, an optimizer of all resources and
technologies, and an enabler of innovation.
manage impending demand impacts on the grid. AEP can optimize existing fixed grid assets by managing load impact through
offering our customers options and rates that encourage the efficient use of the grid. An added benefit would be improving
reliability and resilience. These efforts can also be efficiently integrated with ongoing grid modernization activity. The result of such
integration not only reduces costs for the individual customer but for all of AEP’s customers.
Broader EV adoption represents potential for all areas served by AEP, from regulated states where we serve customers with fully
integrated electric service, to states where our distribution grid serves as the platform integrator. The goal is to simplify the charge-
at-home options and enable the most economical charging for customers. To accomplish these goals, we are actively testing
technology solutions and time-of-use pricing options that would manage the charging of EVs to optimize the use of the grid. We
believe we can provide these benefits cost-effectively for our customers, using the smart grid platform that we’ve already built to
support it. AEP first began exploring and learning about EVs and EVSEs nearly a decade ago. In 2011, AEP Ohio and Walmart
installed the first free public charging station in Columbus to learn about the impacts it would have on the grid. More recently,
thanks to the Smart City initiative, central Ohio continues to be the primary incubator for EV and EVSE technologies in our service
territory.
In April 2018, AEP Ohio received regulatory approval to implement an EV charging station rebate program, among other
advanced technologies, as part of its Electric Security Plan. Created in coordination with the Smart Columbus initiative, the
program will offer incentives for up to 375 charging stations. AEP Ohio requested the implementation of a rebate program to
encourage the installation of fast charging stations at government and non-government owned properties, workplace charging,
multi-housing-unit buildings and low-income neighborhoods.
We look forward to working cooperatively with our customers, regulators and technology partners to develop the EV charging
infrastructure that supports increased adoption of EVs.
Following a legal settlement between Volkswagen and the federal government over violations of the Clean Air Act, Volkswagen
agreed to a settlement that included $2 billion to support zero-emission vehicle investment across the U.S. and an additional $2.7
billion allocated to the states for environmental mitigation projects (a portion of which would be eligible for states to support EV
adoption and EVSE infrastructure investment in their states). AEP is engaging with stakeholders and working with our states to
plan for the deployment of EV charging infrastructure to take advantage of this resource.
With regard to the use of settlement dollars, we are advocating for sufficient funding of EVSE infrastructure, the equitable
allocation of those funds across states, support of transportation corridor EV fast chargers, involvement of utilities in planning
where to locate chargers, and access to data to help plan and operate the grid to support this charging infrastructure.
Grid Reliability & Modernization
AEP began laying the groundwork for a modern grid with our
smart grid initiative about a decade ago. Today, we are building
upon our legacy infrastructure and modernizing it to create a
system that is accessible to all, an optimizer of all resources
and technologies, and an enabler of innovation. Energy
infrastructure modernization is necessary if we are to realize the
many potential benefits of the smart grid. For example, a smart
grid supports and integrates renewable and distributed energy
resources, empowers customers with real-time information
about their energy usage, and helps energy companies
manage the system more efficiently while improving reliability.
The modern grid provides the necessary infrastructure to
implement technological advancements in generation,
transmission and distribution. These advancements are
required to become the leading utility of the future and improve
the overall customer experience. This includes making the
system smarter and more efficient to better serve our
customers’ needs. As we deploy these foundational
technologies, we are strengthening the grid’s reliability and
resilience. For example, AEP continues technology advances,
including smart substations, smart meters, self-healing
distribution, more efficient transmission, and smart generation
that optimizes energy production.
Reliability Performance
The electric power grid is essential to the economic vitality and well-being of society, making reliability of the system a social
priority. It is our responsibility to operate and maintain a reliable, secure and resilient grid for all customers that meets these needs.Overall, the reliability of the power system is excellent.
According to reliability metrics measured by AEP and the
industry, electricity is available to our customers, on demand,
more than 99 percent of the time.
However, there are times when reliability does not measure up
to our customers’ expectations. Factors such as falling trees
and tree limbs, severe weather and aging infrastructure do
cause outages that, depending on the event, can have negative
impacts on our customers. We work continually to prevent this
from happening, but that is not always possible. The
investments we are making in the transmission and distribution
system improve reliability for customers and operating
efficiency for AEP while preparing the system for new
technologies of the future.
With the advent of new technologies such as energy storage,
we must reconsider the antiquated view that customer
connections only means the distribution service alone. A
broader definition is needed to include other technologies that
enhance customer reliability even if a distribution outage occurs.
Reliability Metrics
There are three key metrics by which we measure the reliability of our system.
The System Average Interruption Duration Index (SAIDI) measures the minutes of an outage that an average
customer experiences in a given year. Our performance in 2017 improved by 10.6 percent compared with 2016
(excluding major events). Vegetation growing or falling into power lines accounted for 33 percent of SAIDI results,
while 19 percent was related to distribution line equipment issues.
The System Average Interruption Frequency Index (SAIFI) measures the number of power interruptions per year
experienced by customers. During 2017, SAIFI improved 2.7 percent compared with 2016. Again, vegetation and
equipment failures were major contributors to performance.
The Customer Average Interruption Duration Index (CAIDI) reflects the time it takes to restore power. In 2017, CAIDI
deteriorated by 2.2 percent compared with 2016. The severity of damage to our equipment most often dictates the
length it takes to restore service.
The first thing a customer wants to know when the lights go out is when they will be on again. Being able to provide customers with
a global estimated time of restoration (ETR) is essential to customer satisfaction. According to the J.D. Power Residential
Electric Survey, customer satisfaction increases if power is restored before the ETR. Similarly, it decreases if power is not
restored by our estimate.
During the past two years we have developed new tools to make it easier for our customers to report an outage when it occurs and
to track estimated times for service restoration. For example, customers can get information about their ETR by text message or
email if they sign up for their utility company’s alerts. The ETR alert system is giving customers better information about service
restoration timing. Because it is so important to our customers, we are constantly seeking ways to keep customers apprised about
outages and to improve the ETR.
In December 2017, AEP debuted a new mobile app. By downloading it onto their smart phones, customers can pay their bill and
report and monitor power outages. The app is one example of how AEP is working to make it easier for customers to interact with
us. It also provides an important channel for reporting and sharing information during outage events.
In addition to the app, customers can access an online interactive map that makes it easier to get detailed information about
power outages. The outage map features:
Greater transparency about restoration progress for customers, media and community leaders who need this
information.
Easily accessible and more detailed information, such as unplanned power outages, always available, without the need
to log into a customer account.
Interactive maps that are mobile-friendly and allow users to zoom in to see power outages by street or neighborhood.
Outages are displayed as color-coded icons and area polygons. Users can search for details by street, city, zip code orVegetation growing into and trees falling onto power lines are the major
cause of power outages which is why managing vegetation in and along our
rights-of-way (ROW) is part of our strategy for maintaining system reliability.
county, without logging in.
Vegetation Management
Managing vegetation in and along our rights-of-way (ROW) underpins our strategy for maintaining transmission and distribution
system reliability.
Vegetation-related outages and equipment failures are among
the biggest challenges to AEP’s service reliability. AEP
manages the trees and vegetation around power lines using a
combination of performance-based (such as targeting low-
performing circuits) and cycle-based maintenance strategies.
Maintaining a regular tree-trimming cycle is a significant
expense that directly affects customer bills and satisfaction.
During the past five years, AEP has spent more than $1.64
billion in vegetation management, including $343 million in
2017. The issue of reliability has prompted several states to
consider or implement shorter intervals between tree trimming
programs.
Trees from outside of the traditional ROW are a major threat to
reliability. When a heavy tree hits a power line, the poles and
wires are generally broken, extending the time it takes to
restore service to customers. In 2017, falling trees accounted
for approximately 22 percent of the total AEP customer minutes
of interruption and, over the past five years, we have seen the
number of these outages increase by 15 percent.
The increase is primarily driven by environmental issues that
are weakening or killing trees. For example, the ash tree
population in Ohio has been decimated by the emerald ash
borer insect. Dead ash trees have been a contributing factor to
a 65 percent increase in Ohio’s outages due to trees from outside the ROW over the past five years. To help control and prevent
the damage that trees outside of the ROW can cause, we work to identify and remove trees that are dead, dying or leaning
precipitously toward our lines. In 2017, approximately $75.8 million was dedicated to tree removals; and in the mountains of West
Virginia, an additional $5.8 million was dedicated to widening “up-the-hill” ROWs in targeted areas above transmission lines.
We are always looking for more efficient, safer, cost-effective and environmentally friendly ways of managing vegetation in our
ROWs. The terrain in some parts of our service territory is particularly challenging because it is so mountainous. Appalachian
Power regularly uses helicopter contractors for aerial spraying of herbicides, inspections and tree trimming using an aerial saw. In
the rugged mountain terrain of McDowell County, W.Va., helicopter use not only saves the time of driving from ridge to ridge, it’s a
lot safer for workers because many of the older structures put our employees who must climb them at risk. In addition, helicopter
use impacts the environment a lot less because it eliminates the need to build access roads to each structure in the mountains.
Severe weather events have made it clear that electric distribution and transmission systems need to be made more resistant to
damage from vegetation during major storms. Over the past several years, our operating companies have received approvals from
state commissions in West Virginia and Kentucky to implement more aggressive vegetation management programs, moving tree-
trimming and other vegetation management to cycle-based programs. Vegetation management cycles have already been
established in Oklahoma and Ohio.
2017 marked the third year of cycle-trimming vegetation management in West Virginia, where vegetation growing into and trees
falling onto power lines are the major cause of power outages. The improvement to reliability is significant with the number of
outages related to vegetation in the rights-of-way down by 32 percent over the past five years. In addition, the frequency of outages
is down 40 percent, and the customer minutes of interruption are 43 percent lower. By the end of 2017, the new cycle program had
been applied to more than 12,300 miles of distribution and transmission lines.
DERs and Grid Reliability
Distributed energy resources (DERs) can provide energy security, resilience and a way to reduce emissions. But it also means
that more of the grid’s energy and capacity is spread across more sources. As local generation penetration grows, there is greater
urgency in upgrading energy infrastructure to integrate these resources safely and efficiently.
Nearly all customers, including those who have installed private generation, rely upon the grid for fundamental services. Capacity+ click to enlarge
(the obligation to provide energy and meet demand when needed) is an essential service provided to all customers who are
connected to the grid. This includes times when private generation sources are not producing energy, such as when a cloudy day
prevents private solar customers from producing sufficient energy to meet all of their needs, or when their system is not operational.
Conversely, they also need the grid to take excess electricity when their system produces more energy than they need.
The grid also provides voltage control, frequency support and other services that are essential to reliability and all the devices we
are connected to in our lives. Without these fundamental services, all customers would face challenges to operate and maintain the
electrical equipment in their homes or businesses.
There have been bold predictions that the electric utility industry would be too slow to adapt to the changing energy landscape and
become obsolete. While it is true that the future will likely require us to build fewer central generating stations, we will continue to
rely upon 24/7 capacity as a cost-effective and reliable source to maintain the reliability of the grid.
We are making substantial investments to prepare the grid, most significantly in our transmission and distribution systems, to
accommodate the multitude of resources that will need to connect to our system. The smart grid initiatives we began a decade ago
are one example of how we have laid the foundation for a modern grid. Building new infrastructure is only part of the solution.
Today, we are exploring new ways to partner with our customers to manage available resource capacity in ways that are mutually
beneficial.
Managing Aging Infrastructure
The aging condition of the U.S. transmission and distribution grid will require investment well into the next decade. Across the
U.S., transmission and distribution lines and substations are nearing the end of their useful lives. According to the American
Society of Civil Engineers 2017 Infrastructure Report Card, “most electric transmission and distribution lines were constructed in
the 1950s and 1960s with a 50-year life expectancy.” The average age of AEP’s transmission lines is 48 years and the average
age of transmission transformers is 37 years. Some transmission line facilities still in use today were put in service as far back as
100 years ago.
On AEP’s distribution system, the average age of distribution poles is 32 years, and the expected life is 45 years. Throughout
AEP’s service territory, there are over 86,000 miles of small conductors that are at least 40 years old and are in need of upgrade.
Re-conductoring these lines will improve capacity and reliability, and can facilitate connecting circuits together to automate them.
The Report Card also says that without greater attention to aging equipment, “Americans will likely experience longer and more
frequent power interruptions.” To prevent this from happening, AEP is taking a number of steps and making investments to
upgrade the power grid.
For example, we conducted a system-wide review of our transmission grid to identify those transmission facilities with
performance conditions and risk of failure that warrant upgrade or replacement. We prioritize projects based on several factors to
ensure that dollars are invested where they are most needed.The investments we are making to modernize the grid will improve reliability and resilience, as well as lower the age of the system.
Here are examples of how our investments are making a difference for customers:
In Michigan’s Kalamazoo County, an approximately $30 million transmission project to build a new substation and transmission
line will significantly improve reliability to the area. The Vicksburg-Schoolcraft area improvements are essential due to frequent
power outages and interruptions caused by the 1970s vintage substation serving the region. 
Over the last three years, the older
line and substation were the cause of approximately 5 million customer minutes of interruption per year.
In West Virginia, a project is underway to upgrade the transmission system in four counties to replace aging infrastructure and
improve reliability. The Meadow Bridge Transmission Line Upgrade in Fayette and Greenbrier counties, Carbondale
Transmission Line Upgrade in Kanawha and Fayette counties and Pineville Area Power Improvements in Wyoming County will
involve rebuilding more than 50 miles of transmission line and upgrading substations. Replacing the aging infrastructure, which has
caused over 13 million customer minutes of interruption over a three-year period (2013-2016), will reduce outages, make the
system more resilient and improve restoration times.
In Arkansas, SWEPCO is rebuilding approximately 19 miles of existing 69-kilovolt transmission line in Scott and Sebastian
counties. The estimated $19 million North Huntington – Waldron Transmission Line Rebuild Project will replace old wooden poles
and transmission line with single steel poles and new conductor. This line has contributed to the second-most customer minutes of
interruption in the past decade in SWEPCO’s service territory.
Asset Health Center
Real-time performance monitors installed and managed by the AEP Transmission Asset Health Center (AHC) have enabled us to
swiftly prevent transformer failures, saving the company up to $20 million, plus the time to install a replacement. The AHC is one
example of AEP’s early adoption of digital technology to improve grid efficiency and reliability through proactive and predictive
maintenance of our physical infrastructure.
There are two main components to the AHC – an analytical software platform with algorithms that provide health indices, risks of
failure, and actionable notifications; and a fleet-wide installation of asset monitoring devices that provide instantaneous data
through a robust communication infrastructure, allowing us to monitor the system in real-time.
In 2017, several accomplishments were credited to the AHC project, including deployment of monitoring on 107 extra-high voltage
transformers/reactors; creation of a standard for circuit breaker monitoring; and partial discharge monitoring on underground
cables. We have integrated AHC information with our Reliability Analysis Tool to allow for more informed decision-making on
asset renewal and asset replacements. This helps to ensure we are making the right investments in the right places to replace
aging transmission infrastructure proactively.
We are able to manage this as part of a regional reliability project portfolio. In addition, the AHC data has helped us to reduce
safety risks to our employees in the field because we can identify safety risks in real-time. The transmission team is now working
with predictive algorithms and the data collected from our sensors to see if we can anticipate equipment failures sooner.
In early 2018, AEP Transmission engineers authored a white paper outlining how the company is using the AHC to help design
and operate the grid of the future. CIGRE, the Council on Large Electric Systems, which is an international organization that
promotes global collaboration to improve electric power systems of today and tomorrow, recognized the AEP team with its 2017
CIGRE Grand Prize for the importance of the AHC to the industry.Transource Energy, a partnership between American Electric Power and
Great Plains Energy, is building a new overhead electric transmission
project in Pennsylvania and Maryland to increase consumer access to more
affordable power in the region.
Reliability Investments
Maintaining the approximately 260,000 miles in our transmission and distribution network comes with an array of challenges while
we are upgrading the infrastructure to meet modern day needs. These challenges include the age of our infrastructure, the threat of
external interruptions, the transformation of our generation fleet, the difficulty of siting new facilities, new and future environmental
regulations, and the magnitude of investments needed. In response, we are investing in infrastructure and using technology and
data analytics to predict, prevent and mitigate service disruptions and to better communicate with our customers.
AEP’s investments to modernize transmission infrastructure provides direct long-term reliability benefits to our customers.
Improved reliability is one of the most important benefits that electricity customers receive from transmission investments. Based
on a sampling of 14 transmission line rebuild projects that have been completed, customer outage duration was reduced by 97
percent from pre-investment levels.
In a report commissioned by AEP from the Brattle Group on the direct and indirect impact of our transmission investments, Brattle
applied this historical effectiveness to a sample of 62 transmission local reliability upgrades targeted for completion in the 2012-to-
2019 capital budget. The report concludes that the investments will yield an estimated customer outage reduction benefit of
approximately $75 million per year and a net present value of $1.4 billion of benefits over the lifetime of these local transmission
investments. Learn more about valuing the grid. (link to section)
Regional Transmission Organizations (RTOs) often determine
upgrades to the transmission grid and assign companies, such
as AEP, these projects to improve reliability. 
Recently, the
Midcontinent Independent System Operator (MISO) approved
construction of a new 765-kilovolt (kV) transmission line
stretching approximately 70 miles across northern Indiana to
maintain reliability in that region, assure access to regional
sources of competitively priced power and provide additional
energy to the area.
The project is being built by Northern Indiana Public Service
Company (NIPSCO) and Pioneer Transmission, a joint venture
between AEP Transmission and Duke Energy. The 70-mile line
approved by MISO is the first segment of a larger 290-mile
proposed transmission project in that region. The new
Greentown-Reynolds project is one of 17 priority projects
approved by MISO; it is expected to be in-service in mid-2018.
Through joint ventures such as Transource
, a partnership to
invest in competitive transmission projects, AEP is well-
positioned to expand transmission investment outside of our
traditional service territory. So far, these joint ventures enabled
us to expand our transmission footprint to 13 states with
projects under development in two additional states. In 2017,
Transource announced plans to develop the Independence Energy Connection (IEC), a new overhead electric transmission
project in Pennsylvania and Maryland, to increase consumer access to more affordable power in the region. The $320 million
project will connect two existing 500-kV transmission lines in Pennsylvania to two existing substations in Maryland.
As AEP continues to improve the reliability of the grid, one of the most recent advances came in the Transmission Operations
Center. Our transmission system operators use a State Estimator tool to view grid behavior for system overloads in real-time and
under certain conditions. In the past, the tool had only data associated with AEP’s transmission system and minimal information
about how neighboring systems were functioning. AEP began modeling neighboring utilities’ transmission systems in the State
Estimator to get a more accurate view of overall grid behavior.
Being able to “see” how neighboring utilities’ transmission systems are behaving allows us to more effectively plan and complete
our own transmission projects. As we invest large amounts of capital, we face challenges with coordinating outages with other
utilities. This information now gives us a clearer view of these situations that put stress on the grid. In addition, these improvements
give us a competitive advantage to better prepare system operators to monitor and operate in regions outside of our traditional
service territory. This is important as we grow our footprint through our Transource business unit.
Severe Weather
One of the greatest threats to reliability of the power grid is weather. In 2017, severe weather took center stage when Hurricane
Harvey barreled ashore in Texas. The storm, with triple digit wind gusts and heavy rain, battered part of the AEP Texas service
territory, leaving hundreds of thousands without electricity and testing our Incident Command System (ICS) and business continuity
plans.
®Hurricane Harvey was the largest storm to hit the AEP Texas service
territory in 44 years, knocking out power to approximately 220,000
customers at the height of the event. 
Hurricane Harvey was the largest storm to hit the AEP Texas
service territory in 44 years. The Category 4 storm made
landfall in Rockport, Texas, knocking out power to
approximately 220,000 customers at the height of the event.
The damage was extensive to poles and wires, substations and
service centers. AEP Texas estimated that at least 5,726 utility
poles and 766 transmission structures were damaged or
knocked down by Harvey. Approximately 5,600 utility workers
from across the country mobilized to assist AEP Texas in
restoring service – the most resources ever used by the
company during a single recovery event. 
AEP Texas also
became the first operating company within AEP to use ICS
during a major storm recovery effort. And while power was
restored to most customers within 14 days, a number of
learning opportunities were identified to prepare us even more
for the future.
Social media played a critical role during the crisis, sometimes
providing the only communication link with our customers. We
were able to communicate with key stakeholders, officials and
customers who wanted and needed timely information about
restoration efforts.
Sadly, a line contractor working on behalf of AEP to help restore power was fatally injured during the outage restoration effort.
Following that event, AEP Texas temporarily halted operations with all employees and contractors to ensure everyone remained
focused on safety as they continued to restore power.
Technology played a vital role in the recovery effort. Drones and helicopters, along with their digital mapping capabilities, were
used to facilitate damage assessments in areas that were not accessible due to damage and flooding. In 2017, drones were used
to help restore power following the Category 4 Hurricane Harvey that struck the Gulf Coast, proving to be a cutting-edge
technology for use in disaster recovery.
The damage caused by Hurricane Harvey was significant to both the transmission and distribution systems, with an estimated cost
of approximately $325 million to $375 million, respectively. Approximately 70 percent of customers in the Corpus Christi district
were left without power after the storm. The amount ofIn August 2017, an outbreak of severe thunderstorms in Oklahoma spawned
four tornadoes in and around Tulsa in one day.
transmission and distribution conductor that had to be replaced
extended over 700 miles.
The storm may be history, but the work is not over. AEP Texas
has embarked on a long-term program to harden the
distribution system to reduce outages and minimize future
tropical storm damage. This includes larger pole diameters and
shorter spans of lines.
In January 2018, AEP Texas announced it would expedite
rebuilding a vital power line from Aransas Pass to Port Aransas
that was devastated by Hurricane Harvey. The work will
strengthen the local transmission grid and provide storm-
hardening for the existing infrastructure. The new line is
expected to be re-energized this year.
AEP employees stepped up to help their neighbors in Texas.
Two Public Service Company of Oklahoma (PSO) power
plants – Tulsa Station and Oklaunion Power Station – donated
supplies of MREs (Meals Ready to Eat) to help feed victims in
areas ravaged by Hurricane Harvey in Texas and Hurricane
Irma in Florida. Employees also reached into their wallets to
help storm victims. AEP set up a Hurricane Harvey Fund,
administered through The Salvation Army, to collect donations from employees and retirees. The AEP Foundation pledged to
match employee contributions dollar-for-dollar up to $50,000 but when employee donations exceeded that amount, the Foundation
increased its match. The final combined donation to help victims of Hurricane Harvey was $186,252.
Employees and contractors across the AEP system not only helped to restore power in Texas, they also went to Florida and
Georgia after Hurricane Irma. And in December 2017, AEP answered Puerto Rico’s call for help to restore power there after the
island’s grid was destroyed by Hurricane Maria, leaving more than 3 million people without power for more than five months. In
addition to sending teams of employees, AEP sent materials and equipment to the island.
Once Puerto Rico issued a formal request for help from the American Public Power Association and the Edison Electric Institute,
it paved the way for our industry on the mainland to fully support the restoration efforts on the island. AEP and its subsidiaries are
among several U.S. mainland energy companies providing resources and workers in Puerto Rico. Recovery of costs will be
funded through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
Mutual assistance is a hallmark of the electric utility industry because we know how important it is to restore service as quickly as
possible after a major event such as a hurricane. The Edison Electric Institute (EEI) honored AEP with seven Emergency
Response Awards, which recognize member companies that show outstanding efforts to restore service after severe weather or
natural disaster. This distinction acknowledges AEP’s 2017 efforts to help customers impacted by Hurricanes Harvey and Irma.
AEP Texas received an Emergency Recovery Award for its response after the Category 4 Hurricane Harvey hit the state. This
award is for member companies directly impacted by a severe weather event.
Six AEP operating companies received Emergency Assistance Awards for providing outstanding support to other companies
during Hurricane Irma. AEP Ohio, Appalachian Power Company, Indiana Michigan Power Company, Kentucky Power, PSO and
Southwestern Electric Power Company (SWEPCO) were all recipients of this award.
We don’t do this work to receive awards, but recognition of the work our employees do to restore power for others is gratifying.
Hurricane-force winds were not the only major event that impacted AEP’s service territory in 2017. In August, an outbreak of
severe thunderstorms in Oklahoma spawned four tornadoes in and around Tulsa in one day. The twisters, one of which registered
as an EF2 tornado (winds of 111-135 mph), caused severe damage to homes and businesses and service disruptions for more
than 14,000 PSO customers.
Grid Resilience
In 2017, major weather events tested the resilience of the grid and its ability to recover. Through massive hurricanes, tornadoes
and other destructive storm events, we learned that the investments we are making to storm-harden the grid are making a
difference by enabling quicker restoration. At the same time, the events that occurred were a sobering reminder of the magnitude
of aging infrastructure still on the system – and the magnitude of investments still needed.
Resilience is focused on risks and consequences that can come from anywhere. In this case, the risk to resilience of the grid
comes from many things, including cyberattacks, electromagnetic disturbances, terrorism, theft, vandalism and supply chain
disruptions. All of these things could change how we design and harden the system.One of the greatest threats to reliability of the power grid is weather. In
2017, severe weather took center stage when Hurricane Harvey barreled
ashore in Texas.
AEP’s investments in local reliability projects enhance grid
resilience by replacing vulnerable assets, upgrading the
telecommunications network, maintaining spare parts and
implementing physical and cyber security standards. Our efforts
also improve storm hardness by upgrading older and more
susceptible facilities, such as replacing wood structures with
steel or improving flood prevention at substations. Telecom
system upgrades and AEP’s programs to purchase spare
parts also help the company respond to outages faster by
identifying problems on the system more quickly and stockpiling
the parts needed to bring assets back online following an
outage.
One example is when Hurricane Harvey struck the AEP Texas
service territory on August 25, 2017. In recent years, new
transmission lines in hurricane-prone areas have all been built
to modern standards, able to withstand wind speeds up to 140
miles per hour.
During Hurricane Harvey, transmission lines built to these
modern standards sustained little to no damage, while many of
the lines that suffered damage were older, less-resilient
structures, such as wood poles. For example, two parallel lines
in the Rockport, Texas area, which was hit by the eye of the
hurricane, experienced two very different outcomes.
One of the lines used predominantly older wood poles with only seven steel poles (which were installed to replace deteriorated
wood poles). The wood poles all failed in the storm, while only one of the seven steel poles was damaged. The damaged steel
pole was only bent and stopped the series of failed wood poles from cascading any further. Across the highway, the parallel line’s
steel structures—built to modern standards—remained unharmed.
AEP Texas is now in the process of rebuilding the damaged line to modern standards. AEP’s multi-million-dollar investment to
inspect and maintain thousands of wooden power poles and underground electrical structures, along with miles of overhead
electrical lines, will help us improve resilience of the distribution system. In addition to the pole program, the overhead line and
underground facility inspection programs are designed to identify issues that present potential public safety concerns or likely
causes of customer outages.
Hardening, reliability and grid modernization initiatives have garnered support from state utility commissions. This is critical to
improving system reliability for all customers.
In 2017, the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) proposed a new rule to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC),
attempting to improve grid reliability and resilience by providing financial incentives aimed at sustaining certain baseload
generation plants. While AEP strongly supports the need to maintain a safe, reliable and resilient grid, the industry needs more
time to incorporate stakeholder input and develop effective solutions. 
In January 2018, FERC issued a new order initiating a new
proceeding to holistically examine the resilience of the bulk power system.
Transmission is a major contributor to grid resilience and should be included in the evaluation of the grid and potential solutions.
We do not believe that resilience should focus solely on generation outages. Investments such as transmission may be a more
cost-effective solution to addressing resilience issues than deferring generation unit retirements. AEP believes resilience issues
are best handled under a regulated cost-based approach in cooperation with state regulators and FERC – and this is how we’ve
provided a reliable and resilient system to meet our customers’ needs for more than a century.
Grid Modernization
Today, customers expect the transmission and distribution systems to be smarter, more flexible, efficient and affordable. They want
the level of reliable service they often receive from popular consumer-facing brands. As we invest to modernize and strengthen the
grid to meet these needs for today and the future, we are creating a more sophisticated electric ecosystem that provides universal
access to low-carbon, cost-effective power and energy solutions.
AEP’s operating companies began deploying two-way communicating AMI meters and supporting infrastructure as early as 2008.
Since then, we have continued to deploy these foundational smart grid assets based on an increasingly strong customer business
case and subsequent regulatory approval in some jurisdictions. With 1.9 million AMI meters currently deployed and nearly 1 million
planned over the next several years, AEP’s operating companies will continue to migrate toward full deployment in the long term.
Future deployment will likely occur in smaller increments as AMI is evolving to an industry-standard technology, replacing older
infrastructure.AEP continues to invest in modernizing and strengthening the grid by
deploying AMI meters which can help proactively identify issues and offer
customers energy saving services. 
Known as Volt VAR Optimization (VVO), this technology has proven its
technical viability in achieving demand and energy savings.
The fundamental value in having AMI infrastructure is the robust
data set that is captured (as often as every 15 minutes) across
many dimensions including energy usage, voltage and
temperature. This enables advanced analytics to proactively
identify issues and offer customers programs and services that
are unique to their usage patterns. We have achieved several
successes by leveraging AMI data. These include:
Proactive identification of temperature anomalies and/or
unsafe conditions
Transformer failure prediction
Multiple methods to proactively identify and address
customer theft of service
More timely identification, communication, and
restoration of customer outages
Increased customer education and control via robust
data availability through web portals and mobile
applications
Enablement of energy efficiency and/or other
approaches to help customers manage their specific
energy usage
Modernizing Distribution
The distribution grid is complex and will become more so as more technology is deployed on the distribution side of the grid and
as customer systems continue to grow. AEP has adopted advanced planning tools to help us better understand how variable
resources will impact conditions on the system as they change. We are also coordinating with transmission planning to understand
how the changes in distribution affect the transmission grid.
Many of the investments we are making in our distribution
systems are to accommodate and use increased levels of
distributed energy resources (DER) and to provide higher
levels of reliability and resilience. Modernization projects
include:
Increasing electrical capacity of substations and circuits
for higher levels of DER hosting capacity and to manage
electric vehicle charging load to optimize the grid. An
added benefit gives us greater ability to restore service
to customers by reconfiguring circuits during outages.
Physically relocating and strengthening circuits to make
them less vulnerable to weather-related damage and to
limit damage to equipment that requires long repair
times, such as poles.
Replacing aging infrastructure in substations and on
circuits.
Installing Distribution Automation Systems that provide
automated circuit reconfiguration that will restore service
to customers in undamaged sections of a circuit while
repairs are being made to the damaged section(s).
Installing Volt VAR Optimization (VVO) systems to give us tighter control of voltage levels to achieve energy efficiency
that reduces consumption by customers and helps the grid to balance DER hosting capacity.
Installing Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) on the distribution system to provide visibility of system
conditions, remote control, and data that can be analyzed to more efficiently operate the system.Installing sensors to more quickly identify damaged line sections and to provide system condition data for analytics that
could allow us to predict risks in advance, allowing us to be proactive.
Providing back-up sources to remote areas that have historically been prone to outages when an upstream section of the
power line is damaged. The sources being considered include new substations, new circuits, new circuit ties and DER.
DER sources being considered include photovoltaic solar, fossil generation, and energy storage, depending on local
site conditions.
Continued expansion of Automated Metering Infrastructure (AMI) to provide customers more information and choice
about their energy use, and to provide data to help us more efficiently operate the system as levels of DER continue to
increase.
The speed of implementation and level of investment vary by operating company, as companies review customers’ needs to
ensure the right mix of projects, with maximum customer benefit, and affordability. We continue to actively discuss the application of
these technologies with regulators and stakeholders because their support is essential to make the investments that meet
customers’ needs today and in the future, without financial harm to AEP.
For example, we developed new hardening standards for distribution lines. This includes increasing the basic pole size and
strengthening guy wires and conductors. Each operating company is evaluating the aged and aging infrastructure on their systems
and making capital investments annually in projects to replace and upgrade those facilities that pose the greatest threat to
reliability.
In some cases, we have relocated overhead facilities to underground in neighborhoods in order to improve local reliability. This
included a multi-year program in Oklahoma and other smaller, targeted areas across AEP’s service territory. In addition, we have
installed Distribution Automation (DA) on approximately 5 percent of circuits system-wide to reconfigure the circuits to reduce the
number of customers affected by circuit outages. Our regulated companies have targeted plans to continue expansion of DA
during the next several years.
Modernizing Transmission
AEP’s financial commitment to modernizing the grid, replacing aging facilities, targeting poorly performing assets, and improving
grid security helps to partially mitigate future costs to maintain the electric power system. Our investments also ensure the reliability
and security of the grid for customers today. A large portion of AEP’s investment is focused on replacing or upgrading facilities that
have been identified as underperforming or obsolete. These aging facilities require more frequent and costly maintenance;
replacing them reduces those costs. In addition, AEP is investing in projects that enhance grid security and modernize the
telecommunications network along the electric system. These improvements allow us to locate, diagnose and respond more
quickly when reliability issues occur.
We studied a sample of 84 line reconductoring projects and analyzed the line loss decrease that occurred from these investments.
For the sample studied, we found that losses decreased by 55 percent, on average. Reducing transmission losses, means that
AEP needs to produce or purchase less power to serve its load – which directly reduces the cost of serving our retail customers.
Our study concluded that the net present value of savings due to lower power consumption caused by lower line losses would be anBOLD stands out as an example of groundbreaking innovation designed to
improve reliability, grid resilience and services for customers.
estimated $127 million over the lifetime of the investment.
In addition, reduced line losses during peak demand hours would also provide customer savings through reduced capacity needs.
The Southwest Power Pool (SPP) has estimated the value of capacity, and, according to SPP’s assumption, customers would
realize additional capacity savings of approximately $114 million (present value terms) over the lifetime of the investments in the
sample study. These are significant financial and reliability benefits for our customers, as well as operational improvements for how
we manage and modernize the grid.
BOLD
 Advantages
On July 19, 2017, AEP energized the Reynolds-Meadow Lake
345-kV transmission line in northwest Indiana – the second line
on our system using AEP’s Breakthrough Overhead Line
Design
 (BOLD
) technology. It was also the first BOLD line
to use a lattice structure design to support the compact line
configuration. With electric demand straining the system in that
region, the new line supports growth and enhanced reliability.
The first BOLD line was energized near Fort Wayne, Indiana,
in November 2016. Additional projects are underway across
the AEP system.
What makes BOLD so attractive? The compact BOLD 345-
kV design provides advantages such as lower tower heights
and increased capacity in the same right-of-way. The cleaner
visual line and elegance of a BOLD structure and line is a
creative and conscientious design option in response to public
objections to taller and more imposing traditional towers.
We are now developing a virtual reality presentation of the
BOLD line to support our siting and outreach teams. This will
allow us to show landowners and regulators what the line would
look like before it is built. Our strategy is to market the
technology to other utilities; partner with and license
engineering firms who support our industry to promote and use
the BOLD technology for their clients; and work with suppliers
of BOLD materials and structures to drive down manufacturing
and construction costs.
BOLD stands out as an example of groundbreaking innovation
designed to improve reliability, grid resilience and services for
customers. In 2017, AEP Transmission received several
prestigious awards recognizing the importance of BOLD to the
industry globally.
In June 2017, AEP received the prestigious Edison Award for the Robison Park-Sorenson rebuild project using BOLD in Fort
Wayne, Ind. The Edison Electric Institute (EEI) award honors “distinguished leadership, innovation and contribution to the
advancement of the electric industry for the benefit of all.” It was the second year in a row AEP received this award. The Fort
Wayne BOLD line became the world’s first operating BOLD transmission line, replacing a 1940s era 138-kV line. 
The new line is
helping to ease grid congestion in that region.
In September 2017, the BOLD tower design received the “International Tower Design Award” from CIGRE/KEPCO and was
selected over 26 other tower designs from around the world. The judges recognized BOLD for its practical and environmentally
friendly design, blending performance with aesthetics. In November 2017, the National Association of Regulatory Commissioners
(NARUC) presented BOLD with its 2017 Utility Industry Innovation in Electricity award. This was the first year NARUC presented
innovation awards.
Our employees were also recognized for their own bold innovation. One of our employees was named as one of the Top Forty
Innovators for 2017 by Public Utilities Fortnightly. The honor recognizes his efforts to bring BOLD from whiteboard concept to
reality. We are proud of our employees who are leading the way as we transform our company – and the industry – for the future.
Underground Network Monitoring
In 2018, a multi-year initiative at six operating companies to modernize and reinforce AEP’s 21 underground electrical networks
will be complete. The Underground Network (UGN) Monitoring project is already changing the way we collect, communicate and
use information and data to support the Operations, Engineering and Planning functions of the operating companies’ critical UGN
systems.
®
®
®AEP's multi-year underground monitoring initiative gives us the capability to
monitor underground networks in real time using fiber optics and cutting-
edge sensor technology to capture data in five-second intervals.
The approximately $84 million project gives us the capability to
monitor the networks in real time using fiber optics and cutting-
edge sensor technology to capture data in five-second intervals.
This gives us a real-time view of the distribution grid. The
energy company of the future will need this capability as the
distribution system becomes a more diverse, flexible system,
allowing all resources to connect and manage demand at the
same time.
With sensors and state-of-the-art telecom technology, we have
a view of the underground system that we’ve never had before,
allowing us to proactively manage the system. The insights we
get from monitoring the system in real-time will also give
underground network line crews more information about the
facilities before they enter and as they prepare to perform their
work, making it a safer work environment.
In addition, having the data to eventually be able to predict and
prevent failures, the Engineering and Planning groups will be
able to use the data to support load forecasting and other
engineering needs. This transformational network was
designed to support technologies that can be added in the
future, too.
Energy Storage
As we introduce more wind and solar power into our energy mix, the need to invest in energy storage grows. Energy storage helps
maintain a constant flow of power when the wind isn’t blowing and at night or on cloudy days when the sun isn’t shining. Storage
technology also supports local reliability for our customers and is integrated into our distribution and resource planning processes.
Today, we are also testing new ways of combining storage with hydroelectric power to support the grid.
Sometimes, pairing the old with the new can result in something groundbreaking. In 2017, AEP partnered with Greensmith Energy
to integrate a 4 MW energy storage system with the Buck and Byllesby hydroelectric power plants in southwest Virginia. The
hybrid system combines advanced energy storage and software with hydroelectric generation to provide ancillary services to the
grid; it is due to begin operation in 2018.
Once it comes online, the programmable energy storage system will serve PJM’s frequency regulation market, which helps to
balance the transmission system as it moves electricity from generating stations to retail customers. The Buck and Byllesby
facilities are operated by Appalachian Power and have been in operation since 1912.
The concept of energy storage is not new, but the need for reliable, cost effective solutions has never been more critical. We are
exploring new ways of using energy storage to manage demand and support the interoperability of the grid, including investing in
technology companies to accelerate development and deployment. Today, as the energy landscape transitions to more distributed
and intermittent resources, we need the ability to store energy from such resources. Batteries are a relatively modular solution that
can be mobilized and relocated if they are needed elsewhere on the system.
Distributed Energy Storage Applications
Reliability improvements
 - Batteries can provide back-up power in case of an outage. For example, a total of three 2-
MW NaS (sodium sulfur) batteries were deployed in Appalachian Power, Ohio Power and Indiana Michigan Power in
2008. Each battery is capable of providing islanding (backup power) for more than seven hours when loss of power from
the substation occurs.
Frequency regulation
 - Batteries have the ability to rapidly respond to frequency regulation signals on the grid.
Regional transmission organizations are recognizing the need for greater amounts of frequency regulation to maintain
system stability with the increased integration of variable generation resources.
Firming of renewables
 - Wind and solar often do not generate energy when and where it is needed most. Deploying
batteries to combine with wind and/or solar energy can allow for better use and management of variable renewable
energy sources.
Peak shaving
 - Batteries can provide power during peak demand times to lower customer demand and alleviate strain
on the power grid.
Power quality
 - Batteries are capable of conditioning the flow of power so it can be used to protect sensitive electronic
equipment.Energy storage can sometimes be the most cost-effective, efficient solution
to a reliability issue.
AEP’s experience in deploying batteries to support the power grid
Year
Deployed
Project
Benefits to Grid Achieved
2002
First U.S. demonstration of sodium
sulfur (NaS) battery in the United
States at AEP
Tested the combined power quality and peak shaving capabilities of
the NaS battery
2008
Three 2 MW/14.4 MWh NaS batteries
Provided peak load shaving and demonstrated increased reliability by
providing backup power in Milton, W.Va., Churubusco, Ind., and
Bluffton, Ohio.
2010
4 MW/ 24 MWh NaS battery
Transmission capital deferral while providing back-up power to the
town of Presidio, Texas
2018
(Expected)
4MW energy storage combined with
hydro
Hybrid storage/hydro system at the Buck and Byllesby hydroelectric
power plants in southwest Virginia to provide ancillary services to the
grid
New policies, such as those recently put forth by the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission, support energy storage and
recognize the variety of services these resources can provide.
Additionally, storage technologies will become more cost-
competitive as the industry matures, similar to what has
happened with wind and solar. We will continue to explore
opportunities to leverage the unique aspects of energy storage
resources for expanded use in transmission, distribution and
wholesale market applications.
Advancing Technology &
Innovation
At AEP, we understand that the growing demands of the 21st
century economy will require smart, comprehensive and
sustainable infrastructure solutions. That is why, as one of the
largest electric utility companies in the U.S., we are working
every day to identify innovative solutions to meet the rapidly
evolving needs of our customers and our business.
For AEP, this means getting ahead of the curve through
advanced energy infrastructure and preparing for
advancements in transportation and other major catalysts for
economic growth – before they come online. Innovation has
been part of the fabric of AEP for more than a century, and, in
2017, we took bold steps to create new avenues for corporate-
wide innovation. We believe AEP is well-positioned to leverage
our scale, industry experience and skilled workforce to provide
our customers with a comprehensive package of innovative
energy solutions.
This strategy allows us to embrace mobility, analytics and
automation, and gives us the room to take prudent risks. Today,
we are adjusting our mindsets and embracing new strategies to
navigate this evolving environment and shifting our focus to a
different type of innovation that is more customer-centric. We
are at the start of this journey, and we know it will take time, but
our commitment is clear.
Innovation Hub
To encourage and support innovation at AEP, we created The
Innovation Hub as a mechanism to speed up our problem-solving processes, using a continuous improvement/start-up approach toAt AEP, we are building a collaborative mindset that sparks creativity and
innovation – staying true to our heritage of innovation.
create new products and services or change existing ones in days instead of weeks, months or even years. At AEP, the innovation
process comprises four phases:
Becoming Digital
A revolutionary change is underway as companies seek to transform digitally and fundamentally alter how they organize, operate
and behave to deliver the most value to their customers, shareholders and employees. Today, consumers have already adopted
digital practices in their daily lives, including shopping online from their mobile devices, operating their home security systems via
mobile apps and remotely starting their vehicles with smart phones. These conveniences required innovation, technology and
marketing to succeed. Companies that effectively make the digital transformation are more likely to deliver the experience
consumers expect and win the battle for customer loyalty.
At AEP, we are learning what digital means for our company.
As we plan for the future, we are changing the way we organize,
behave and operate to remain competitive, better serve our
customers and create sustainable value. This agile operating
model gives us a place to test insights and develop valuable
products, services and solutions for customers. This could
mean abandoning long-standing business practices in order to
create new and lasting value, enacting process efficiency
improvements, digitizing the customer experience to
seamlessly connect customer interactions across channels, and
using predictive analytics to understand customer attributes and
behaviors to develop the solutions and services they value
most.
In some cases, digitization has already begun to grow
organically at AEP. Examples of digital accomplishments
include the modernization of our underground monitoring
networks, the introduction of a customer mobile app and the
creation of an app to give power plant managers real-time data
to optimize how we operate and invest in our remaining coal
fleet. In our workforce, we have established an Innovation Hub
and continue to transform our culture to achieve the level of
engagement we need because culture is foundational to our
digital future.
Employees must be agile, willing to challenge the status quo to test new ideas and insights, and accept failure as part of success.
Our progress toward a more engaged workforce is an enabler of this changing business dynamic. In preparation, we are
undertaking strategic workforce planning as we learn more about the future of work – what the work will be and the skills that are
needed to be successful.
For example, AEP developed and tested five process automations designed to make time-consuming manual tasks faster and
easier. In one case, an automation solution has reduced the time spent on generating system IDs for new contractors by more than
90 percent. Typically 30 to 50 requests come in each day for these types of IDs, which required a manual process to assign them.
Automating this process frees up people to do work that is more strategic to our business.In another case, we are using automation to improve the customer experience. When a customer’s bill has something wrong with
it, a manual review is required before the bill can be mailed. These bills were stored in the billing system, making it time consuming
to find and address them. By automating the process, we can spend more time on reducing bill issues for customers instead of
finding the work and then assigning it for resolution.
We are establishing a transition team to establish the digital operating model for AEP, which will include a governance structure to
accelerate the scale of digital operations and solutions. Through digital, we will develop a portfolio of projects to remain
competitive, better serve our customers and employees, and create sustainable value. By understanding the future of work, we can
develop the skills and processes we will need to repeat successful solutions more quickly, reduce risk, strengthen our core
business and evaluate new opportunities to improve the customer experience.
As we continue our culture transformation, we are creating opportunities for employees to stay curious, test ideas and innovate.
We are building a collaborative mindset that sparks creativity and innovation – staying true to our heritage of innovation. We have
established new work spaces that encourage testing of new ideas, developing those that show promise and having an avenue for
fast-tracking them to market when they are ready. We are also giving employees tools such as mobile apps, augmented and virtual
reality environments, and automated controls and sensors that provide real-time data to improve network operations, resilience
and safety.
Digital transformation is a massive undertaking, and we are developing a five year roadmap to align our actions, as well as create
a new organizational and governance structure, and a strategic workforce plan.
Data Analytics
Companies are advancing how analytics can be used to solve problems and drive better decisions and actions. For example,
being able to automatically detect what caused a network fault on the grid without having to assess it in the field is one of the many
advantages of data analytics. AEP’s Data Science team is using data, analysis tools, statistics and math to tackle these issues,
helping AEP succeed as a next generation energy company.
Beginning in 2016, AEP put organizational changes in place to develop internal analytics communities, where best practices
are shared and promoted across AEP:
Central Analytics Services team provides data science, data governance and architecture resources needed to
develop, automate, deploy and sustain sophisticated analytical models.
Advanced analytics teams within the business units (e.g., Customer and Grid Analytics, Transmission) enable agile
identification, prioritization and execution of use cases with internal customers.
Cross-Functional Analytics Board brings leaders together from across the enterprise to promote and prioritize
analytics,
Analytics Center of Excellence brings together data scientists from all business units to share best practices.
Analytics Executive Advisory Board provides strategic direction and advocacy for analytics.
In addition, AEP created a new Chief Data Scientist position to provide data leadership across the company. This role will advise
all data scientists across AEP, finding synergies between different departments to leverage the skills and knowledge in place and
to expand upon them.
We have already scored early wins. For example, the Data Science team is using analytics to help the Telecommunications team.
Employees used to manually review telephone bills to find errors. Through the use of data analytics, we identified a new automated
process to help us detect more errors with less effort. Other projects include predicting meter failures so a service order can be
automatically generated before the failure happens, and improving the performance of Generation assets in the PJM regulation
market.
We have invested in building an analytics foundation to enable further advancement of our capabilities, with far-reaching impacts
on core and strategic projects.
Smart City
In 2016, the City of Columbus – home to AEP’s corporate headquarters – won the U.S. Department of Transportation’s (DOT)
Smart City Challenge. Smart Columbus has a vision that starts with the reinvention of mobility, positioning central Ohio for a future
beyond what anyone has yet imagined. Goals include:
Improving people’s quality of lifeDriving growth in the economy
Providing better access to jobs and job opportunities
Becoming a world-class logistics center
Fostering sustainability
As part of this initiative, AEP Ohio will help drive consumer adoption of electric vehicles (EVs) by removing barriers and investing
in and supporting the deployment of electric charging station infrastructure. AEP was one of several partners to sign on to the
challenge with the City of Columbus. The collaborative focuses on modernizing the transportation network and reducing carbon
emissions in both the transportation and electric power sectors. While the partnership focuses on central Ohio, the lessons we take
away will benefit all of AEP.
As part of the effort to transform Ohio’s capital city into a model for urban planning and development in the 21st century economy,
AEP Ohio has invested approximately $1.5 million in fleet electrification since 2016 and installed nearly 60 EV charging stations
in 2017. In addition, the project includes installing nearly 900,000 smart meters in Columbus and across the state of Ohio. We are
also pursuing a plan to invest approximately $175 million to improve energy efficiency, advance clean energy and energy storage,
and usher along the electrification of transportation systems throughout the state.
In April 2018, the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO) approved AEP Ohio’s Electric Security Plan (ESP), supporting
expanded access to electric vehicle (EV) charging and renewable generation, while continuing to enhance distribution grid
reliability.
Under the ESP, a program to expand EV charging station availability will be created as part of the Smart Columbus initiative. The
project creates a rebate incentive program for the hardware, network services, and installation of charging infrastructure for up to
300 level 2 charging stations and 75 DC Fast charging stations. The $10 million program offers rebates for site owners to install
charging stations, with 10 percent of the stations to be located in low-income areas. It is believed to be the first 
approved rebate for
EV charging in the Midwest.
Smart City Accelerator
The Singularity University Smart City Accelerator provides a forum to bring emerging technology companies together to
commercialize their ideas to support the Smart City initiative in Columbus. AEP has engaged Singularity University as its
innovation partner. SU works with individuals and organizations to tackle the world’s biggest challenges by helping themunderstand rapidly accelerating technologies and how to apply them.
AEP is among the companies that have sent internal teams through the accelerator to innovate on their own projects. This unique
collaboration with the city, the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT), startups, and other corporations is designed to catalyze
new innovations in the smart city space. Ideas from our employees were submitted to the Smart City Accelerator. One would
create an electric vehicle subscription program, and the second would establish a smart street lighting program.
A total of 13 startups participated in the program, including participants from AEP, where the program helped either launch their
company or further their ideas into a business. The accelerator was designed for companies that fit within the focus areas of the
DOT’s Smart City Challenge initiative which looks to:
Integrate transportation technologies
Improve accessibility to transportation
Create a cleaner environment
Results of these efforts include:
A partnership with a company to build analytics that can bring further intelligence to our systems. This will help us operate
the AEP electrical systems more efficiently today and in the future.
A partnership between AEP Ohio and a company to deliver energy benchmarking services to customers.
An AEP Electric Vehicle (EV) Charging Subscription Plan, AEP’s first start-up offering under Kyte Works. With this
service, we will improve the customer experience for faster car charging by providing Level Two charging (6x faster) with
just one call.
Kyte Works
To facilitate the process of taking innovative ideas from concept
to viable business product or service, AEP created a separate
company called Kyte Works LLC. Kyte Works is a wholly
owned subsidiary of American Electric Power and will act as
our innovation company. Through Kyte Works, we will be able to
operate like a start-up company to validate offerings and
provide new value to customers. Kyte Works will enable us to
go to market faster, to gain confidence, intelligence and the
data needed to satisfy the customers of tomorrow.
The new company gives AEP employees from different disciplines a place to turn their ideas into real-world business products and
services. Through Kyte Works, employees can take their ideas to customers for early feedback, make changes and confirm that a
viable market exists. When an idea takes off, Kyte Works collaborates with AEP’s business units to determine when and how to
roll out a new service to customers.
Visitors to the 
Kyte Works website
 can learn about AEP’s latest innovations and sign up for email updates.
Global Innovation
In early 2018, AEP was invited by the governing board of Free Electrons, a global energy startup accelerator program, to become
a member. Free Electrons was formed to connect energy startup companies with leading utility companies around the world. AEP
became the first North American utility member.
Joining the Free Electrons accelerator program gives us access to the world’s most innovative technology entrepreneurs in the
energy space. Our long-term strategy includes building smarter energy infrastructure and delivering new technologies and custom
products and services to our customers. Free Electrons allows us to help cultivate the cutting-edge energy solutions that are being
developed around the globe.
Spark Tank Challenge
In 2017, AEP challenged its nearly 18,000 employees to collaborate, amplify and implement their innovative ideas as products or
services that customers will want today or in the future. The plan was to develop these ideas into revenue streams for AEP that
bring value to those we serve. To ignite thought, creativity, collaboration and customer focus, AEP launched its first enterprise-wide
Spark Tank Challenge.To ignite thought, creativity, collaboration and customer focus, AEP
launched its first enterprise-wide Spark Tank Challenge for employees to
share innovative ideas that could be developed into revenue streams.
In 2017, AEP’s Generation business unit developed the concept for an
Innovation Blitz, a cross-functional, three-hour event encouraging employees
to bring their best ideas forward around a pre-determined innovative topic or
technology.
As technologies advance at an unprecedented pace, our
customers want us to use innovation and technology to move us
into the future – and they want to take the journey with us. The
Spark Tank Challenge gave us a mechanism to engage
employees and establish an enterprise-wide innovation and
technology focus. Approximately 600 employees submitted
nearly 400 ideas; eight employee teams were invited to pitch
their ideas to the AEP Spark Tank judges. The ideas were
evaluated by AEP’s Enterprise Technology Council before
being presented to a panel of internal and external judges. A
handful of ideas made it to the last round, some were reserved
for future development, and others offered continuous
improvement value.
The winning entry was “AEP SMART Buildings, a five-star
concierge service for energy management.” The onsite energy
management program would target municipal, university, school
and hospital customers, who want these types of personalized
services from AEP because they trust us and know we can
deliver results.
A second proposal, “AEP Plus Consumer Resilience,” aims to
install a customer-centric network of energy storage devices to
provide customers with greater resilience and potentially lower
the cost of service for their neighbors.
A third proposal, “Customer Connectivity,” also earned special recognition. AEP will further develop this proposal which calls for
delivering fast, reliable internet service to customers over fiber-optic wires because information is now a fundamental building
block for modern living. Although it is not core to our traditional business model, ideas like this reflect new opportunities to serve
our customers’ needs.
Innovation Blitz
In 2017, AEP’s Generation business unit developed the concept for an Innovation Blitz, a cross-functional, three-hour event
encouraging employees to bring their best ideas forward around a pre-determined innovative topic or technology. Two Generation
Innovation Blitz events were held in 2017 on the topics of mitigating power plant wastewater streams and using augmented/ virtual
reality. Participants came together from multiple AEP business units to capture ideas to support the generating fleet, enhance the
customer experience and help secure our vision as the energy company of the future. The theory behind these events is that when
we address challenges in an open and collaborative setting, our ideas grow exponentially.
Over 100 ideas were generated during the two events, and two
of those ideas are being further developed for potential use
cases. The first centered on an idea that selenium, a heavy
metal found in flue gas from coal combustion, may be more
easily separated from the flue gas stream with a drop in flue
gas temperature. To learn more, the Generation team began a
research project to validate this theory; if it works, it could lead
to more cost-effective selenium removal options.
The second idea focused on using an augmented reality (AR)
application (app) using GPS capable of displaying real-time
power plant equipment information on a mobile device. The
idea was that an employee could point their device at the
equipment and gather the data they need instantaneously. This
could be used to support equipment troubleshooting,
operations and maintenance. Working with IT and a third-party
mobile app developer, the team created an AR app that is now
in limited use at the Mountaineer Plant in West Virginia.
The value already gained from our efforts in 2017 is the catalyst
for plans to host additional Innovation Blitz events in 2018.
Technology Application
Augmented/Virtual RealityWe are learning how AR/VR and its wearable technology can help us bridge
the real world with the digital and possibly save time, money and keep
employees safe.
The use of drone technology is beneficial for a variety of inspection
applications across our generation, transmission and distribution system.
The techno-generational divide between the legacy analog power grid of the past and the modern, digital grid of the future may lie
in the three-dimensional and colorful world of augmented and virtual reality (AR/VR). We are learning how AR/VR and its wearable
technology can help us bridge the real world with the digital to become as common as iPhones and tablets, saving money and time
while enhancing safety and training.
In 2017, a partnership between AEP’s IT and Transmission
Engineering teams led to an AR/VR proof of concept.
Employees pitched the idea of AR/VR as a business tool for
virtual site visits of field operations. One of the project’s
deliverables was a white paper to document what employees
will need to know in order to use AR/VR technology to meet a
business need. AEP also signed on to an Electric Power
Research Institute (EPRI) study identifying practical AR/VR
applications in the industry.
The proof of concept project investigated whether physical site
visits by transmission stakeholders can be done virtually.
Through a virtual site visit, a single employee equipped with the
AR/VR goggles can enter a station and interact with
stakeholders remotely through web streaming. A key finding of
the project was that people who wear the goggles and immerse
themselves in the experience of AR/VR actually forget they are
not physically there and start solving problems through what they
are seeing. It demonstrated that we can collaborate remotely,
using technology to “see” our way to a solution. In addition,
being able to study and possibly identify defects in construction
projects before they are built would save time, money and keep
employees safe.
The success of the proof of concept led to three new capital
projects for Transmission and Generation. The first Transmission effort will focus on validating new Transmission substation
standards by visualizing aspects such as clearances and safety concerns. This allows engineers to iterate and improve on the
design prior to construction eliminating costly rework. The second Transmission project will create a virtual reality presentation of
the BOLD® design, showing potential customers the technological advantages over traditional transmission structures. 
Learn
about the project in Generation that came from the 
2017 Innovation Blitz
.
Drones in Flight
Drones are an effective means of inspecting power lines. In 2017, Indiana Michigan Power and AEP Transmission started using a
camera-equipped drone for power line patrols to test how well the drones work for inspections. Among the expected advantages
include:
Cameras can rotate 180 degrees, allowing them to
capture images underneath components on the structure,
such as insulator assemblies, compared to helicopter
pilots and observers, who can only look down;
Increased safety by not having people climb a tower or
ride in a helicopter;
Drones can access hard-to-reach areas possibly not
accessible by helicopter;
Drones are quieter than helicopters, which is a benefit
when flying in populated areas.
We also use drones to conduct inspections of generation,
transmission and distribution equipment. Drones can also help
us assess damage more quickly after an event that causes an
outage; they were an important tool after Hurricane Harvey
caused severe damage to our transmission and distribution
system in Texas.
Multi-Dimensional Modeling
Finding the right solution is easier when you can see theAEP uses prefabricated packages to build transmission substations more
problem. When developing or updating standards for transmission substations, a set of drawings is generated to provide guidance
to support different stakeholder needs within the production environment. As needs change, the drawings and guidance have to
keep pace with the changes. Creating these updates is time consuming and relies on the ability of stakeholders to mentally
translate a two-dimensional drawing into a real-world application so it can be reviewed for accuracy.
We are creating a new three-dimensional (3D) model before developing the drawings, allowing us to use augmented reality for a
more effective visual review of the standards. By creating an immersive experience, experts in multiple locations can
simultaneously review the work, reducing the risk of errors and the time it takes to complete the job.
This type of modeling also creates an opportunity for people who work in substations every day to physically move around in a 3D
model environment to look at something that does not yet exist. This gives our workers the opportunity to “see” and “feel” if
something needs to be changed in their designs, based on their experience in the model.
Ground-Penetrating Radar
Upgrading underground infrastructure sometimes requires finding it first. AEP’s transmission team identified a business need for
a more efficient and cost-effective way of locating underground structures that were built decades ago, so they went about finding a
solution. They recognized Ground Penetrating Radar (GPR) devices’ improved accuracy, making 3-D modeling easier. The “lawn
mower-like” device, equipped with GPS, moves across the ground without causing damage and saves time and money while
improving safety. It is also a more environmentally-friendly solution for brownfield projects. AEP Transmission applied this
technology for the first time to update a 1960s vintage substation in Ohio.
The GPR allows engineers to see clear images, comparing what they are seeing to existing diagrams, so they can optimize the
routing of new underground facilities. Construction crews can also use the data from the GPR to potentially minimize the amount of
hydrovac for digging a trench. Hydrovac is a slow and time-consuming excavation technique that uses high pressure water to “dig”
inside substations, while avoiding damage to underground cables. The resulting wastewater and soil have special disposal
requirements. This new technology can minimize that need.
The GPR technology is cost-effective because it can reduce the amount of hydrovacing, and reduce any waste/spoils, that would
have to be removed.
Remote-Controlled Robot
In 2017, a revolutionary method for inspecting the internal components of power transformers was piloted by AEP Transmission
using a decommissioned 1950s-era transformer. Normally, internal transformer inspection and maintenance requires downtime
and the time-consuming and expensive process of draining the large amounts of oil from inside. Once the oil is removed, a
specially trained employee then has to squeeze inside to physically examine the components.
The team, working with the Electric Power Research Institute and software vendors, tested a remote-controlled robot that could be
lowered through the top of the oil-filled transformer. The robot was maneuvered to “swim” through the oil to inspect the various
components. What testers saw was a game changer. Rarely seen, clear images of internal transformer components were captured
allowing engineers to conduct an inspection without putting a person inside the transformer. The data collected will give us useful
end-of-life information about the condition of internal components and may help with evaluating future maintenance needs. Most
importantly, it improved the safety environment for our employees.
Prefabricated Transmission
AEP Transmission continues to improve upon the way projects
are designed, engineered and built. In 2017, we continued
experimenting with prefabricated packages to build
transmission substations more efficiently. An added benefit is
that this approach also reduces waste normally occurring in
traditional construction methods.
We built five prefabricated projects in 2017 (Indiana,
Oklahoma, Texas and two in Ohio) and currently plan to pilot 40
more projects during 2018 and 2019. As we increase the
amount of prefabricated projects in our pilot, we continue to find
more areas where this application is beneficial. Among the 40
projects included prefabricated packages to build buses,
foundations, substation service tertiary structures, modular high
margin cap banks, and more. We are planning to extend this
approach to substation configurations and transmission line
installations.
We first considered prefabricated packages as a way to
reduce the number of construction labor hours on the site forefficiently while reducing cost, waste and length of outages for construction.
each project. The first Pre-Fab Station Installation in
Appalachian Power demonstrated that the use of a major pre-
assembled component, factory-built and transported to the
station site, improved field safety and significantly reduced
construction time. It took 10 hours to install the pre-fab station, compared with three to four weeks using traditional construction
methods that involve installing and welding 516 parts on the site. This approach also generates significantly less waste that would
have to be removed.
With each pre-fab project, we are learning there are more ancillary benefits than just reducing construction labor hours. These
include:
Reduced length of outages for construction
Faster installation
Construction is less dependent on weather because it is fast-tracked
Reduced risk of missing parts
Enhanced safety as workers are exposed to fewer risks associated with construction
Reduced waste from packaging, which reduces environmental impacts at job sites
Minimal material management required because the station comes prefabricated
EPRI Technology Transfer Awards
In early 2018, several AEP employees received prestigious Technology Transfer Awards from the Electric Power Research
Institute (EPRI) for their achievements in research and development. The awards recognize industry leaders and innovators who
help companies deliver safe, affordable, reliable and environmentally responsible electricity through collaboration and research that
has a transformative impact in the utility industry. The awards to AEP employees involved:
Development of smart chemistry alarms that can be activated during a chemistry event, such as a condenser leak, to
notify plant operators to take immediate action to minimize the risk of equipment damage.
Research evaluating different forms of mercury in wastewater discharge at a coal-fired power plant. The alternative form
identified was accepted by the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency for wastewater discharge permitting, serving as a
national model for alternative mercury limits.
Creation of a one-of-a-kind database of fish and shellfish eggs and larvae that can be used to holistically examine power
plant impacts on fish populations and track the spread of invasive fish species in the Ohio River.
Development of a robot that autonomously inspects high-voltage transmission lines, sending information back to the
utility. The robot expands inspection capabilities, increases cost-effectiveness and improves workplace safety. AEP
deployed the robot as a permanent installation on a 90-mile transmission line.We will use our knowledge, voice, skills and relationships to enable innovation, bring new
technologies to market, modernize the grid to be the ultimate optimizer of all resources and
technologies, and develop a diverse, inclusive workforce for the 21st century. We will do
this safely and efficiently and by working with our customers, communities and regulators.
Developing Our Workforce
Transformational change requires a more progressive and
thoughtful approach in how we train, develop and retain
employees. This includes identifying new ways to work and
reinventing how people, automation, and technology work
together.
Safety & Health
Zero Harm is at the heart of everything we do at AEP. 
It
means we believe all occupational illnesses and injuries are
preventable 
Because We Care
 that everyone goes home in
the same or better condition than when they came to work.
Zero Harm Means We Care
Safety and Health at AEP
Zero Harm is at the heart of everything we do at AEP. 
It means we believe all occupational illnesses and injuries are preventable
Because We Care that everyone goes home in the same or better condition than when they came to work. We Care about our
people, our customers and our communities.
In 2017, AEP began the second of a five-year safety and health
transformation effort toward our goal of Zero Harm – zero
injuries, zero occupational illnesses, and zero fatalities. We
have established several programs and activities that serve as
the foundation for our journey. Our objective is to take our safety
and health culture from good to great by making it personal and
holding each other accountable.
We know we can achieve Zero Harm because work groups
across the company achieve it every year. We are creating a
learning-centric safety culture where events are looked at
objectively and used as opportunities to prevent future harm,
while learning from those who do it well. 
It’s a culture that
focuses on communicating, learning and continuously improving
so the same events aren’t repeated. Our efforts include:
Building a comprehensive governance structure that
allows us to be more proactive and remove obstacles to
preventing harm
Enhancing training to objectively evaluate safety-related
events
Implementing employee recommended policies to make driving safer
Making safety and health information more accessible through online platforms
Analyzing and sharing injury data and trends with business units
Producing video messages to educate employees
Coaching employees to have meaningful conversations about safety and health
Despite increased attention on safety, we tragically experienced two contractor fatalities in 2017 and one in 2018. The loss of any
life is immeasurable, as it leaves a significant void in the lives of co-workers, family and friends. Contractors are an important part
of the workforce, and we want them to go home without harm from the work they do on our behalf. Although these heartbreaking
events can never be undone, each loss strengthens our resolve to work harder toward Zero Harm.
2017 Workforce Safety and Health Performance
No aspect of our work is more important than safety and health, whether it is an AEP employee or an AEP contractor. One way to
ensure we are living the values of Zero Harm is through performance measurement. We use several methods to track and
measure the success of our safety and health efforts. More importantly, we analyze the results to identify trends and opportunities
for improvement or prevention.
In 2016, AEP transitioned from the Injury Severity and
Recordable Injury rates to the industry-accepted DART (Days
Away/Restricted or Job Transfer) rate to track and measure
work-related injuries for both employees and contractors. The
DART rate allows AEP to identify more serious events and
place additional emphasis and focus on those that cause more
serious harm. In addition, AEP established DART rate
improvement goals using a three-year average of historical
DART rates.
Our 2017 employee safety and health results show that we are
making improvements as a result of our efforts. In 2017, the
DART rate for AEP employees was 0.44 compared with 0.50
in 2016 – which is a 12 percent improvement. This is good
progress, but we still have work to do. In 2017, AEP employees
experienced 4,164 days away/restricted or job transferred days
and 83 events where a work-related injury or illness took them
away from their job. Slips, trips, falls, sprains and strains and
stepping in holes (STFSS) accounted for more than 50 percent
of all DART cases. These types of injuries continue to be the
top cause of harm to our employees and contractors. See
Transforming Safety & Health to learn about our prevention
efforts.
We strive for Zero Harm with our entire workforce, which
includes contractors. We invest time and resources to ensure
the safety and health of our contractor workforce and we hold
them accountable for their performance. This has become
critically important as our contractor workforce expands as we
grow our business.
Following a company-wide evaluation of our safety and health culture in
2015, we launched a five-year journey to shift our approach to safety and
health.
We track separate DART rates for our contractors to monitor performance and focus on areas needing improvement. AEP
contractors’ DART rate for 2017 was 0.58 compared with 0.59 in 2016. In addition, we experienced two contractor fatalities due to
electrical contact events. In response, AEP worked collaboratively with our contracting partners to identify the root cause of the
events and build mitigation strategies to prevent future recurrences. However, we still have work to reach our goal of Zero Harm
among those who work on our behalf.
To help our contractors achieve Zero Harm, we have a rigorous contractor pre-qualification process that sets clear expectations for
compliance and commitment. We are beginning to incorporate leading indicators into the contractor safety management program
and proactively address trends. In addition, we meet regularly with our contractors and set an expectation for them to align with our
value of Zero Harm. We will continue to look for ways to remain actively engaged through our AEP employee and contractor safety
management systems. There will be additional focus on contractor safety in 2018, as AEP works to enhance its contractor safety
management program.
We also calculate a combined DART rate for employee and contractor performance, which gives us a total picture of the progress
our entire workforce is making toward Zero Harm. 
The combined DART rate was 0.51 in 2017 compared with 0.54 in 2016. We
experienced a 6 percent improvement which shows that we are making progress towards our goal of improving our performance
by 10 to 20 percent. In addition, 78 percent of AEP’s work-reporting locations did not experience a DART event.
We are proud of the progress we have made so far; however, we know that reaching Zero Harm doesn’t happen overnight. No
single solution or activity will improve AEP’s safety and health performance. However, we are confident that the programs, policies
and procedures we have in place will make a difference in the lives of our employees, contractors and their families
Transforming Safety & Health
Nothing takes higher priority at AEP than the safety and health of our employees, contractors and the public. We have made good
progress during the past decade, but we have yet to achieve our goal of Zero Harm.
We have shifted our approach to safety and health by focusing
on engagement, accountability, proactive hazard identification
and correction, and continuous improvement. As a result, we
have established several programs and activities that serve as
the foundation for our safety and health transformation. These
include:
Good Catch Program
The Good Catch program encourages employees to
proactively share information about unsafe conditions or events
where there was no resulting harm or damage. Through the
program, situations are reported and corrected, and learnings
are communicated throughout the organization. In 2017, more
than 4,000 Good Catches were reported, compared with 2,809
in 2016.
This year, through ongoing continuous improvement programs,
measures were devel¬oped to assess and improve the quality
of Good Catches so that we share lessons learned across
AEP. The data also is being used to identify areas where we
need to improve our recognition of hazards, such as slips, trips,
falls, sprains and strains and stepping in holes (STFSS).
STFSS accounted for more than 50 percent of all Days
Away/Restricted or Job Transferred (DART) cases but only a
small percentage of Good Catches in 2017. One opportu¬nity to reduce STFSS events is to identify and report hazards related to
these issues.
Shadow of the Leader – CORE Visit Training
A CORE visit is a leadership tool that can be used to assess a variety of activities. CORE stands for Coaching through
Observation, Recognition and Engagement. The visits connect employees with their leaders in a two-way dialogue to improve
engagement and performance. Even though safety and health is the focus, the interactions can include discussions on continuous
improvement, work expectations and opportunities to develop standard work. Expanding the discussion has been particularly
helpful in low-risk work environments. This provides leaders with more ways to build trust and engage with their team members.
More than 3,500 leaders have participated in CORE visit training since 2016. In 2017, more than 4,300 CORE visits were
documented.
Site Inspection ProgramStay Away From All Overhead Lines
In 2016, following a fatal crash between a train and an AEP vehicle at a private rail crossing leading into one of our construction
laydown yards, we began inspecting sites across our service territory in effort to identify potential safety hazards that could put the
safety of our workforce at risk. More than 3,700 sites were inspected, which included substations, laydown yards, generation plants
and office facilities.
As a result of this effort, more than 400 risk mitigation plans were developed for the highest-risk sites. These included physical
projects, such as moving entrances or high-visibility barriers, and revised work practices, such as prohibiting left-hand turns onto
busy streets and requiring smaller vehicles to arrive first to help direct larger vehicles into stations, or a combination of both. In
2018, we will continue implementing the plans and prioritize the next set of sites to receive mitigation.
Occupational Health
Zero Harm means that everyone has the right to work in a healthy environment. AEP’s occupational health efforts have involved a
number of initiatives to protect employees from exposure to chemical, physical and biological agents. Focus areas include
respirable crystalline silica, ergonomics and heat-related illness.
Noise-induced hearing loss remains a challenge for AEP. Moving forward, industrial hygiene experts will begin increasing
awareness of this issue. Individuals who work in loud environments will learn how to more effectively use their individual personal
protective equipment (PPE) to protect their hearing by undergoing a hearing protector fit test. Fit testing provides measurable
results and identifies opportunities for individual education.
Driving Safety
Driving is a critical task for many people at AEP. On average, our employees collectively drive more than 91 million miles a year
for work. In August 2017, AEP implemented a new Attentive Driving Policy, which prohibits the use of cellphones and hands-free
devices while driving for company business. In addition, we refocused attention on the importance of seat belt use to saving lives.
Both of these changes came from frontline employee recommendations during AEP’s driving summit in April 2017.
In 2018, we are starting to implement new telematics tech¬nology across our fleet to make operating vehicles safer for our
employees and the general public. The information gathered from the technology will help improve driver skills and minimize
hazards for employees. In addition to the safety benefits, the program will help to reduce fuel usage, vehicle maintenance and
vehicle claims costs.
Communication & Engagement
In addition to CORE visits - Coaching through Observation, Recognition and Engagement – we are expanding the ways in which
we communicate with our employees about safety and health. We have implemented several web-based communication platforms
for instant and easily-accessible safety-related information. For example, a new safety and health dashboard on our internal
website provides employees with instant information on Good Catches, DART events and other recordable events. We also
created a private Facebook page where valuable safety and health information is shared and to recognize safe behaviors at work
or home. Through the newly created Safety and Health Video Channel, valuable safety messages are shared monthly across AEP.
The messages elevate awareness around AEP’s greatest safety challenges while featuring employees from across the company.
These efforts are a few examples of how AEP is working to build a learning-centric culture that focuses on communicating, learning
and continuously improving so everyone goes home in the same or better condition than they came to work.
Public Safety
AEP is committed to serving our customers without putting members of the public in harm’s way. We are always looking for better
ways to provide important safety information to our neighbors. We use multiple communication channels to educate the public
about recognizing hazards and provide guidance of what to do when a potentially risky situation occurs.
Even with increased education and outreach efforts, five public
fatalities occurred in the AEP service territory in 2017 because
of electrical contact.
We have revitalized our public safety efforts and increased
education and awareness of how to stay safe around AEP
facilities. Part of this effort included working with first
responders who are often the first ones on the scene in an
emergency. These included:
Electrical safety awareness events
Electrical safety programs in schools
Social media to provide the public with safety informationWhile in the field or in the office, we believe every employee should come to
work feeling safe and secure.
New videos and reference materials with graphics to
promote public safety
Promote awareness and use of “Call Before You Dig”
Workforce Safety & Security
AEP’s quest for Zero Harm reaches beyond occupational
safety and health to include employee security and workplace
aggression. While in the field or in the office, we believe every
employee should come to work feeling safe and secure. In
response, AEP has developed policies, procedures and
training to increase employees’ ability to recognize, report and
respond to workplace aggression.
Examples of Workplace Safety & Security
Efforts:
In late 2017, AEP implemented a new mandatory self-reporting
policy that requires employees to report within 24 hours to their
immediate supervisor and/or their local Human Resources
representative the following events:
An arrest, charge, indictment or conviction of a felony or
misdemeanor criminal charge (except minor traffic
offenses that will not result in incarceration)
Service of a protection order or restraining order when
the employee is listed as the subject of the protection or
restraining order.
A thorough review of the reported event is conducted by an
internal team consisting of Human Resources, Legal, Ethics
and Compliance, Security, and the impacted Business Unit.
Typically, we may not learn about these events until several
months later due to the lag in legal reporting systems. The
mandatory self-reporting policy allows us to become aware of
these events sooner and allows us to prepare for events that
could potentially put our employees or our operations at risk. It
also allows for us to conduct a proper review to determine if
immediate action is required, such as termination, to protect
our employees and financial assets.
AEP also has several workplace safety training initiatives available to our employees. In early 2018, we launched an Active
Shooter Response table-top exercise to train our employees on how to handle active shooter situations. For our field employees,
we provide a face-to-face Customer Threat and Aggressive Behavior training, which was recently modified to include de-
escalation techniques that can be used with difficult customers who threaten the safety of our employees. We also launched a
video version of this training for those who are unable to attend in-person.
At AEP, it is our responsibility to do everything we can to protect the safety of our employees. By putting these efforts in place, we
stay true to our commitment to providing a safe working environment for all employees.
Managing Performance
Internal audits of our safety and health management system and compliance processes are part of our quest for Zero Harm. The
audits help flag potential hazards that could lead to harm, allowing us to take proactive preventive action.
Safety and health programs were audited at more than 30 locations in 2017. In addition, a system-wide audit of some aspects of
the safety and health program transformation was conducted. In response to findings, corrective action plans are developed, which
are tracked to closure by the audit team. Audit results are shared with business unit leaders and safety professionals across the
company to leverage lessons learned.
We continue to review our processes for sharing information and lessons learned to ensure there is consistency across AEP and
We undertook an aggressive inspection of approximately 3,750 sites across
the AEP system to identify safety risks that could result in harm to our
employees.
that important information to prevent harm is shared with every
employee and contractor.
The Future of Work
As the energy industry continues to transform, so will the needs,
skills and expectations of our workforce. New technologies,
digital systems and process automation are changing the way
we get work done as well as changing the expectations of our
customers and employees. In addition, as we continue to focus
on the customer experience – offering new energy solutions
while providing an exceptional customer experience – we need
the tools and resources to deliver. In response, we are focused
on defining what the future of work at AEP looks like and how
we prepare for this change through strategic workforce
planning.
As a leading energy company, we are committed to continuous improvement and learning while reinventing how people,
automation and technology work together. This is important to achieve our mission of redefining the future of energy and
developing innovative solutions. This means a paradigm shift in the way we do business.
In 2017, AEP completed a 10-week project within shared services that looked at what the work of the future will be and how works
gets done. One aspect was exploring how automation can make work faster, easier and more effective. We looked at several
time-consuming, manual tasks that could quickly be designed and built in a test environment. We learned that the process
automations would help employees do these processes faster, easier and more effectively, allowing them to focus more time on
strategic work activities. For example, one team looked at scrap metal billing and management. They found that process
automation freed up employees from coordinating the scrap metal process at their locations and sped up the process, which
allows AEP to get paid much faster.
We are looking at how to prepare employees for the future of work. This includes forecasting new roles and skills that will be
required as jobs change and looking at different technology solutions that would allow work to be more streamlined and efficient.
We are also looking at the needs and expectations of our current and future workforce, such as expanding telecommuting and
contingent work arrangements that would allow for more flexibility and a type of crowdsourcing of resources, as we need them.
Although our annual employee turnover rate remains steadily low at approximately 6 percent, we anticipate that a significant portion
of our workforce will retire or leave for other opportunities within the next five years. Our focus on the future of work allows us to
prepare for this shift. Whether through succession planning,AEP provides development opportunities for employees at every level,
whether through mentoring programs or educational assistance.
investing in new tools, technologies and process automation, or
capacity-building and training for emerging skills critical to our
industry, we are developing a long-term plan so that we are
prepared.
Developing Our Employees
Transformational change requires a more progressive and
thoughtful approach in how we train, develop and retain
employees. This includes identifying new ways to work and
reinventing how people, automation, and technology work
together.
As jobs begin to change, so do the skillsets needed,
experience required and knowledge necessary to remain
competitive. New technologies, changes in the way we are
regulated, our sharpened focus on the customer experience,
and competition for a skilled workforce are all factors that are
shaping our industry. Our goal is to prepare our company and
workforce for those changes so that we are aligned with our
future strategy. AEP provides a broad range of training and
assistance that supports lifelong learning and transition
development. This is especially important as we move toward a
more digital future that requires a more flexible, innovative and
diverse workforce.
As AEP focuses on the customer experience, we want our
employees to have the necessary tools, technologies and
training needed to be successful. One example of how we are
preparing our employees to deliver an exceptional customer
experience is through newly created frontline training. All of our
Customer Operations Associates are receiving training to help
guide conversations, tackle hard issues and adapt to a range of
customers’ communication styles. As we look to move away
from a transactional type of relationship with our customers, this
multifaceted training is critical to preparing our employees for
the skills we need now and in the future.
To develop a talent pipeline for our future workforce needs,
AEP has training alliances with various community colleges,
universities and vocational and technical schools across our 11-
state service territory. We work with these institutions to develop
academic programs needed to prepare employees for upward
mobility opportunities and to attract external job seekers
interested in careers in our industry. Our education partners
include 
The Ohio State University
, 
Columbus State Community
College
, 
Mid-East Career & Technical Center
, 
Texas State
Technical College
, 
Morgan State University
, 
Tennessee State University
 and 
Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology
,
among many others.
Our knowledge and skills development strategy is accomplished through our processes for ongoing performance coaching,
operational skills training, resources to support our commitment to environment, safety and health, job progression training, tuition
assistance, and other forms of training that help employees improve their skills and become better leaders. In 2017, AEP
employees completed nearly 1 million hours of training, as tracked in our corporate-wide learning management system.
There are many training programs that are not tracked but account for significant additional hours of essential training to keep
employees safe, remain in compliance with laws and regulations, and provide important refreshers of critical skills. For example,
new employees in our Call Centers receive 7 weeks of training, while a program in Transmission, called Cross Exposure,
provides an immersive learning experience for employees outside of their work group or department. The goal is for experiential
learning to take place which enhances the employee’s contribution as well as giving them an opportunity to add value to another
department.
AEP also provides development opportunities for employees at every level, whether through informal professional development
opportunities, AEP’s educational assistance program or formal targeted development plans. Several of AEP’s AEP’s 
Employee
Resource Groups
 and utility professional groups, such as 
Women’s International Network of Utility Professionals (WiNUP)
,
sponsor programs and events that focus on employee education, career advancement, and personal and professionalIn early 2017, AEP joined the U.S. Army Partnership for Youth Success
(PaYS), a program designed to accelerate the transition of veterans to
careers in the private sector.
development.
A more formal program, called Targeted Development, provides specific opportunities for employees who exhibit the desire and
long-term potential for success in higher leadership roles within the company. The programs provide AEP with an ongoing talent
pool for future leadership opportunities and ensure we have the right talent to lead the organization in the future. In 2017,
approximately 140 employees participated in targeted development programs across the company. Rotational and mentoring
programs are available within some of our business units as well.
For example, the Regulatory Rotational Consultant Program provides an opportunity for employees to gain exposure to multiple
departments within AEP’s regulatory division. As employees complete projects, they learn about different industry activities and
gain a better understanding about the state and federal jurisdictions and standards under which our companies operate. This
allows employees to use this knowledge and experience to be more effective in achieving AEP’s goals in today’s complex
regulatory environment.
AEP provides education assistance for all active, full-time employees. In 2017, AEP provided a total of $1,915,561 in tuition
assistance, supporting more than 1,000 employees in their pursuit of higher education.
Supporting Our Veterans
AEP actively supports, recruits and hires military veterans, and educates, trains and prepares them to successfully transition into
rewarding energy industry jobs. Veterans bring important skillsets to the workforce, including leadership, discipline, teamwork and
reliability. They also bring a mindset of safety, which is a core value of AEP’s business, making them attractive recruits for our
company.
Just over 10 percent of AEP’s 17,666 employees are military
veterans, and almost 8 percent of AEP’s new hires are
veterans. Veterans have the technical training, experience and
personal characteristics that make them a great fit for careers
in the energy industry. We hold open houses for veterans so
they can learn about skilled craft positions within the company
and watch live demonstrations of line mechanic work. They also
get a preview of the different technologies used to operate the
grid. We encourage veterans to actively seek and apply for jobs
at AEP that match their training and skills.
In early 2017, AEP joined the U.S. Army Partnership for Youth
Success (PaYS), a program designed to accelerate the
transition of veterans to careers in the private sector. Through
the Army PaYS program, active and reserve servicemen and
servicewomen in the Army and Army Reserve Officers’ Training
Corps (ROTC) are matched with civilian job opportunities that
require the skills acquired during their military service. Soldiers
who qualify with a skills match are guaranteed an interview for
the job by participating companies.
We also support our military veterans through our benefits
program. Military veterans and reservists are allowed paid time
off to attend funeral services for a service member with whom
they have served. This is in addition to AEP’s regular employee
bereavement policy. We understand that a fellow service member is often as close as a family member, and the loss is deeply felt
by our veterans. We also provide pay differential for employees in the Reserves or National Guard who are ordered to active duty
in emergency situations.
AEP’s Military Veteran Employee Resource Group (ERG) is another way we support our more than 1,800 military veteran
employees. The mission of the Military Veteran ERG is to promote the roles and contributions of veterans and active-duty military
employees, provide professional development and networking opportunities for our members and serve as a liaison between AEP
and the veteran and military communities.
We are proud of our work to support military veterans. AEP was one of six energy companies that developed the 
Troops to Energy
Jobs
 initiative to provide veterans with a career path for jobs in the energy industry. AEP also participates in the 
Veteran Jobs
Mission
, which has grown to more than 200 companies. The coalition is committed to hiring veterans and has collectively hired
more than 436,000 veterans since its inception in 2011.
Labor Relations
More than one fourth of AEP’s workforce is represented by labor unions. We value the relationships we have with our unionizedAt AEP, we continually work to foster a culture that supports the agility and
focus needed to succeed in a fast-paced, changing work environment. We
measure our progress through employee culture surveys.
employees and believe in a trusting, collaborative and respectful partnership. We are working with our labor partners to strengthen
these relationships to ensure we have a culture that attracts and supports employees who can adapt to the rapid changes occurring
in our company and industry. Our partnership with labor unions is critical to meeting the growing expectations of our customers and
adapting to the challenges of rapidly changing technologies.
We negotiated three-year collective bargaining agreements
and wage packages in 2015 with the International Brotherhood
of Electrical Workers Union and the Utility Workers Union of
America. We have begun another cycle of negotiations and we
expect to have three year agreements with all of the unions who
represent AEP personnel by the end of 2018.
Our relationship often goes beyond the confines of a contract.
Together, we’re expanding our focus on safety while enhancing
productivity. We are also working together with labor leaders to
support the President’s focus on infrastructure development
across the nation. Our labor-management relationship
continues to grow as our workforce becomes more flexible,
creative and engaged.
Culture of Engagement
A strong and healthy culture fosters engaged employees and creates the foundation for long-term success. Company culture is
known to drive performance. An engaged, collaborative and empowered workforce not only will improve morale and performance,
it will fuel innovation, spark ingenuity and drive continuous improvement. At AEP, we continually work to foster a culture that
supports the agility and focus needed to succeed in a fast-paced, changing work environment. This includes building on our
commitment to customers, safety, operational excellence and innovation.
To measure our progress, AEP conducts employee culture
surveys through Gallup, Inc. In 2017, our employee culture
survey showed positive, steady improvement in several areas,
including an 89 percent participation rate compared with 74
percent in 2014, the survey’s first year. We strive for 100
percent participation because we truly believe that every voice
counts.
In 2017, we saw a significant improvement in the overall grand
mean score placing AEP in the 69th percentile compared with
the 55th percentile in 2016, and 12th percentile in 2014. We
also saw an improvement in our Employee Engagement Index,
which compares the number of engaged employees to the
number of actively disengaged employees, with 50 percent of
employees being engaged compared with 45 percent in 2016
and 27 percent in 2014.
In 2017, we established an Inclusiveness Index in our culture
survey. Our Inclusiveness Index score was 3.99, which places
us in the 68th percentile. We are confident that this score will
increase as we continue to build our diversity and inclusion
efforts and roll out corporate goals in mid-2018.
To continue building momentum to keep employees actively
engaged, work groups develop culture action plans each year
that help keep our employees focused on culture.
We encourage our employees to be mindful of their behaviors and leadership styles through our Power up & Lead culture
leadership workshop. Since the workshop began in 2013, more than 17,000 employees have completed Power Up & Lead. The
workshop equips them with knowledge, tools and resources to be a more collaborative, effective and engaged workforce. We will
continue to offer Power up & Lead workshops to employees and new hires in 2018.
Continuous Improvement
As AEP continues to build on the continuous improvement culture it has been cultivating for several years, our future focus will be
the alignment of continuous improvement efforts to high level strategic objectives. This strategy-driven continuous improvement
approach is linked to AEP’s strategy and includes three- to five-year objectives for the organization, associated balanced
scorecard metrics relevant at every level, and annual project plans associated with meeting goals. The metrics will be verticallyThe foundation for continuous improvement is standard work, and AEP is
committed to strengthening our focus on developing standard work for
priority business functions and critical processes.
Our Vision
 – We envision a culture where diversity is the
norm and employees, customers, suppliers and stakeholders
of all identities are valued, respected and engaged.
Diversity
 – We embrace diversity by respecting the
differences, similarities as well as the cultural experiences,
backgrounds, talents, and ideas of employees, customers,
suppliers, and stakeholders. This includes race, ethnicity,
religion, sex, gender identity & expression, national origin,
sexual orientation, age, physical ability, etc.
Inclusion
 – We intentionally focus our efforts to leverage
differences and similarities in our communities and
business. We believe we can meet customer expectations,
while developing innovative solutions that improve lives.
aligned and will drive problem solving to the right level within the organization. Also, leaders will continue to develop their skillsets to
effectively coach their teams to solve problems, achieve their culture and performance goals, and sustain the continuous
improvement culture. AEP will also continue to drive cross-functional value streams aligned with core value drivers.
Examples of Success:
One priority value stream is the Fleet Vehicle Acquisition –
Vehicle Request to Vehicle Delivery – the process for buying
new vehicles. AEP operates over 12,000 vehicles and the
processing cycle to replace a vehicle can exceed two years. In
March 2017, a cross-functional team from Corporate
Procurement, Supply Chain, Fleet Operations and the Supply
Chain Center of Excellence created a value stream map to
better understand all of the activities that produce this lengthy
lead time.
To buy a new fleet vehicle, there are 43 major steps that are
performed by 11 organizations. To shorten the lead time to
ensure more timely acquisition and delivery of vehicles, 22
improvement opportunities were identified. One of these
opportunities is the standardization of vehicle platforms and
options by job function. For example, AEP Ohio’s Distribution
organization was offering 12 hydraulic vehicle platforms with
multiple options to choose from. After the improvement event,
eight platforms with standard specifications and minimal
options are now offered, resulting in cost and lead time
reductions. For example, for one type of digger derrick, the cost
savings for the 11 vehicles to be purchased in 2018 is
approximately $84,000. In addition, the group reduced the lead
time by approximately 24 percent.
As a result of the successes in Ohio, similar improvement events are scheduled for the balance of AEP’s Distribution
organizations. To build a continuous improvement culture and use the team’s problem-solving capabilities for future improvements,
such as vehicle standardization, the value stream leaders and their teams meet on a regular basis to discuss their progress,
challenges and barriers to success.
The foundation for continuous improvement is standard work, and AEP is committed to strengthening our focus on developing
standard work for priority business functions and critical processes. In 2017, the Work Planning Process for Distribution
developed standard work for the identification and planning of field work, which will be used across our operating companies by
the summer of 2018. By developing standard work and applying it across the organization, we can make more informed
operational investment decisions, thereby increasing reliability for our customers and allowing best practice sharing.
Diversity and Inclusion
Our leadership team supports and serves as the foundation for establishing a more inclusive workforce that breaks down silos and
creates a trusting, engaging and thought-provoking work environment. Diversity and inclusion have become increasingly important
concepts not only to AEP but also to our employees, shareholders, suppliers and customers.
AEP values an inclusive and diverse business environment for
our employees that also reflects the diversity of the communities
where we live, work and operate. We are committed to
providing a pathway for employees to advance and unlock the
power of perspectives to better serve our customers, drive
innovation, and generate sustainable growth for AEP.
As we continue to position AEP for the future, we view diversity
and inclusion as a vital part of our business strategy to remain
competitive and to attract and retain the best talent. A diverse,
inclusive and highly engaged workforce not only improves
performance, it also improves company culture – creating an
environment that welcomes different experiences, beliefs,
backgrounds and thoughts.
AEP is committed to the inclusion of a broad base of
stakeholders in everything we do. This is reflected through
several external commitments focused on advancing diversity,inclusion and equity. Signature commitments include: Paradigm
for Parity®, the CEO Action for Diversity & InclusionTM
pledge, and the Columbus Commitment: Achieving Pay Equity.
In 2017, we developed a five-year Diversity and Inclusion Strategic Plan – The Roadmap to 2022. The plan focuses on four key
areas:
1
. 
A Diverse Workforce:
 Build a diverse, high-performing workforce that reflects the communities we serve. Eliminate barriers
that prevent employees from maximizing opportunities and potential.
2
. 
Inclusive and Engaged Workforce:
 
Cultivate a collaborative and inclusive work environment that empowers all employees.
Integrate Employee Resource Groups (ERG) across the enterprise and empower them to be brand ambassadors supporting
employee recruitment and retention; career/professional development, as well as customer and community connections.
3
. 
Sustainability & Accountability:
 Establish accountability measures to ensure that AEP’s management and leadership teams
model the behavior that advances diversity and inclusion initiatives.
4
. 
External Partnerships:
 Foster relationships with external partners and stakeholders to broaden access to diverse talent by
building partnerships with educational institutions, diverse community organizations, and professional associations.
Each of the four goals is accompanied by strategies and measures designed for successful company-wide implementation. In
addition, a shared accountability structure was created to ensure progress and outcomes. This includes: the accountability of
AEP’s leadership team for implementation and management of this plan; the Diversity and Inclusion Advisory Council, which is
responsible for ongoing development and review of initiatives and strategies; and employees who are responsible for living AEP’s
culture to achieve these objectives. Progress will be measured, tracked and reported annually in this report.
Leadership Diversity
It is important to us that we become even more diverse and
inclusive from the board room to the front line. Having
employees who represent different experiences, thought
processes, generations, genders and racial and ethnic
backgrounds helps us gain a broader perspective on business
issues, challenges and solutions. It moves us to a place of
viewing differences as strengths. It also solidifies our
commitment to building a high-performing workforce that
reflects the diverse communities we serve.
In 2017, AEP was recognized as a 2020 Women on Boards
Winning “W” Company by the 2020 Women on Boards
campaign. The mission of the campaign is to increase the
percentage of women who sit on U.S. company boards to 20
percent or greater by 2020. Today, 25 percent of AEP’s Board
of Directors is composed of women.
Currently, AEP’s leadership diversity is made up of 27 percent
women and 13 percent minorities due to recent leadership
changes. At the end of 2017, our 
Board of Directors
, 
AEP
leadership team
 and 
regional utility presidents
 included nine
women, two African Americans and two Hispanics. Women
made up 29 percent and minorities 13 percent of this group.
Leadership diversity lays the foundation for enabling a more
inclusive workforce that breaks down silos and creates a
trusting, engaging and thought-provoking work environment.
While we are making progress, we know we can do better –
and we will. Our Diversity and Inclusion Roadmap will provide
additional focus on the diversity of our leadership ranks through
new targets and accountability goals.Partnerships for Success
Our diversity efforts are fueled by a number of internal and external initiatives, programs and partnerships. Whether through
educational institutions, professional associations, community organizations, employee resource groups (ERGs) or leadership
development forums, we are focused on building and fostering partnerships that give us greater access to diverse talent.
In addition to 
Paradigm for Parity
, the 
CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion
 pledge
 and the 
Columbus Commitment: Achieving
Pay Equity
, we currently have other relationships with organizations such as the 
Center for Energy Workforce Development
(CEWD)
, 
Direct Employers
, Prospanica, National Society of Black Engineers, American Association of Blacks in Energy, and
the 
United Negro College Fund
 to assist us with our diversity efforts. These partnerships not only expose AEP to more diverse
talent, but also help AEP become a recognized partner and leader among potential employees.
We have alliances with several colleges and universities that broaden access and reach to diverse candidates. Through our
Diversity and Inclusion Roadmap, we are working on a 
plan to implement a companywide targeted college recruiting initiative that
focuses on partnerships with schools representing Historically Black Colleges and Universities, Hispanic Association of Colleges
and Universities, and women’s colleges and universities, as well as working with Offices of Diversity and Inclusion at other
colleges and universities. We have also set a goal that by 2022 at least 10 percent of new hires into full-time, entry-level jobs come
from targeted high school development programs, technical colleges and/or universities (based on available opportunities).
Employee Resource Groups
One of the best ways for AEP to demonstrate its commitment to a trusting and inclusive work environment is to empower
employees to form and participate in Employee Resource Groups (ERG). Our ERGs reflect the diverse makeup of our workforce
and communities that we serve. 
They contribute to the company’s diversity and inclusion objectives and business goals in several
key areas to include recruitment, retention, professional development, customer education and community outreach. Through our
ERGs, we gain valuable insight into the diverse communities that we serve. They also serve to increase employee engagement by
providing employees with a safe space to discuss workforce-related issues and to develop innovative solutions to help improve the
work environment and the overall success of our company.
AEP’s Employee Resource Groups
Asian American Employee Partnership
Hispanic Origin-Latin American (HOLA) Employee Resource Group
African American Employee Resource Group
Military Veterans Employee Resource Group
AEP Pride Partnership [for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and questioning (LGBTQ) employees and their allies]
Abled and Disabled Allies Partnering Together (ADAPT)
Native American Employee Resource Group (NAERG)
Multi-Cultural Employee Resource Group (new in 2018)
Open to all employees, the ERGs sponsor programs and events focused on culture, education and personal and professional
development. They are active community volunteers supporting efforts such as Project Mentor and Make a Difference Day. ERGs
also play an active role in AEP’s diversity and inclusion efforts, including recruitment.
®
™Employee Resource Groups support AEP’s values and goals while
contributing to the company’s diversity and inclusion objectives.
AEP values an inclusive and diverse business environment for our
employees that also reflects the diversity of the communities where we live,
work and operate.
One of the key factors that contribute to the success and growth
of our ERGs is the support they receive from senior
management. Senior leaders are selected by the groups to
serve as executive sponsors who advocate for the ERG and its
issues, provide strategic guidance, enlist the support of other
senior leaders and connect ERG members with relevant
stakeholders. In addition, the executive sponsors ensure that
the ERG program gains visibility and support across the
enterprise.
Fostering an Inclusive Place to
Work
At AEP, we value and take deliberate actions to create a
working environment that values every individual and group and
embraces the diversity and richness of the backgrounds and
perspectives of our people. An inclusive environment allows us
to leverage the diverse talent of our workforce for business
success. In turn, employees who are accepted and respected
are more likely to be engaged, to have an increased propensity
for innovation and creativity, and to be high-performing
contributors. It also says a lot about who we are.
We participate in a number of benchmarking surveys that
measure our progress and identify opportunities for
improvement.
For the second year in a row, AEP received a perfect score on
the LGBT Equality Index. We are proud that this resulted in
AEP being ranked among the 2018 Best Places to Work for
LGBT Equality. 
AEP’s perfect score was supported by our
strong and active Pride Partnership ERG, as well as inclusive
benefits coverage. AEP provides health and welfare benefits
for same-sex married couples and their dependents. We also
offer coverage of transition-related care, based on medical
necessity, to individuals who identify as transgender.
AEP was also recognized for the second year in a row as one
of the nation’s 2017 Best Places to Work in the Disability
Equality Index (DEI) Annual Survey performed by the U.S.
Business Leadership Network. The DEI is a national,
transparent, annual benchmarking tool that offers businesses an
opportunity to receive an objective score on their disability
inclusion policies and practices. AEP’s Abled and Disabled
Allies Partnering Together (ADAPT) ERG was one of the
driving forces behind our continued recognition. In addition to
facilitating networking and information-sharing for employees
and contractors with disabilities, ADAPT also supports the
company’s efforts to recruit and accommodate employees with disabilities.
For the first time, our employee culture survey included an Inclusiveness Index. According to the latest Gallup research, the most
engaged employees are those working in an open, fair and diverse environment. On a scale of one (1) to five (5), our mean score
was 3.99. 
This year’s score will set a baseline for improvements from year to year.
Supplier Diversity
AEP’s diversity and inclusion efforts extend beyond our workforce to the customers and communities we serve, including our
supplier base. Small and/or diverse suppliers enable innovation, increase competition, improve savings and enhance the AEP
brand. We want our pool of suppliers and business partners to reflect the diversity of our communities by making it easier for
diverse suppliers to do business with us. We are transforming our supplier diversity strategy into two main focus areas: the Small
Business Program and the Supplier Diversity Program.
Small Business ProgramOur Small Business Program focuses on maximizing opportunities for small business suppliers to provide goods and services to
AEP. Goals are established and measured annually for all areas of small business concerns.
Supplier Diversity Program
The Supplier Diversity Program focuses on maximizing opportunities for diverse businesses, which include: Women-owned
businesses; Minority-owned businesses, including Hispanic, African American, Asian, Native American; Veteran-owned
businesses; LGBT; HUBZone; and Service-Disabled Veteran-owned businesses. We have set a goal to generate a pool of
diverse strategic suppliers and business partners that mirror the customers we serve by reaching a 10 percent* diverse spend for
Tier 1 (or prime) suppliers by 2023. Targets will be proportionally adjusted to include Tier 2 (subcontractors) information once data
is collected.
We also established a Tier 2 program which allows us to understand the supplier diversity spend impact we are having through our
direct suppliers. The Tier 2 program demonstrates the importance AEP is placing on further understanding how our spend impacts
the communities we serve.
To support our supplier diversity efforts, our Supply Chain and Procurement team formed a multilevel governance council to focus
on AEP’s procurement practices and commitment. This council is also part of our enterprisewide Diversity and Inclusion Advisory
Council, which is responsible for ensuring that all diversity and inclusion goals, objectives and initiatives are integrated into
corporate policies, processes and practices as a core element of our business mission.
We are proactively seeking opportunities to build relationships with diverse suppliers. We plan to connect with suppliers through
industry and diversity events. We are also encouraging all suppliers to register with AEP in our supplier database. AEP’s supplier
diversity team works with other teams across the enterprise to enable diverse suppliers to participate in the sourcing process with
AEP.
Enhancing the Customer Experience
We deliver a product that makes modern life possible. We are experts at producing and delivering safe, reliable electricity to our
customers. However, we want to be much more than that. At AEP, our goal is to provide world-class customer service while
creating a positive lasting relationship with our customers. We want to be the people that our customers and communities turn to
first when they have energy needs. We also want to meet our customers in the communication channel of their choice while
providing unique solutions that create value to the customer, each and every time.
Our Customer Experience Strategy includes a variety of initiatives over multiple years focused on developing people, processes,
technology and customer-driven insights to help us meet and exceed our customers’ growing expectations and changing needs.
This includes improving the experience customers have when they interact with us. From first contact, to each transaction, to
delivery of service, we are studying each touchpoint we have with our customers to help them effortlessly navigate across these
journeys.
Identifying and applying new technology systems and tools and expanding customer communication channels are a main focus of
our Customer Experience Strategy. Technology is essential in our ability to provide a variety of options for responsiveIn 2017, AEP launched a new bill format to make it easier for customers to
find important information, including what they owe and when it’s due.
From first contact, to each transaction, to delivery of service, we are
studying each touchpoint we have with our customers to help them
effortlessly navigate across these journeys.
communication and effortless engagement. In 2017, we
launched a new customer app that allows customers to conduct
business with us on their mobile device, whether paying a bill,
monitoring usage or reporting/checking the status of an outage.
This fulfills one of the most frequent requests received from our
customers and demonstrates we are listening and responding
to their needs.
We also redesigned our customer bills to make them more
user-friendly – a priority for customers. In 2017, AEP launched
a new bill format to make it easier for customers to find
important information, including what they owe and when it’s
due.
As we change how we interact with and serve customers, we
are engaging, training, coaching and challenging our
employees at all levels to keep the customer front and center of
everything we do. In 2017, we introduced the “Effortless
Customer Experience” training for our Customer Operations
employees, providing advanced frontline skills training. The
skills they learned will help guide conversations, anticipate and
resolve customer issues, and adapt to a range of customers’
communication styles. Approximately 60 percent of our
customer operations staff received the training in 2017. The remaining employees will complete the training in 2018.
Our strategy and focus on the customer experience is a journey that never ends. As technologies and our customer expectations
evolve, we will continue to research, innovate, test and deliver energy solutions and services that are reliable and affordable and
provide value.
Customer Engagement
Customer expectations and enhancements in technology are changing the way we interact with our customers. 
Although we
continue to see an increase in online transactions - customers conducted more than 22 million online transactions in 2017, or a 9
percent increase over 2016 - we are finding that some of our customers are active consumers, looking for cleaner, smarter energy
solutions that require more personalized and complex customer care.
We are in the second of a three-year project to install a new
Customer Operations Center technology platform that will
enable us to work across multiple channels to serve customers.
For example, a customer service agent can respond to email,
phone calls, text messages and social media, and manage
online chat sessions. A pilot system was installed in the Fort
Wayne Operations Center in late 2017. Installations for the
remaining five centers are scheduled throughout 2018.
As the expectations and demands of our customers continue to
change, so too will the metrics we use to measure our
performance and success. In the past, we prided ourselves on
quick customer service. However, as we work to improve the
overall customer experience, we are considering our
customers’ unique needs, understanding that quick service isn’t
always the best service. We are taking a fresh look at our
metrics and expect to implement new ones that better align with
our focus on excellence.
In 2017, our Customer Operations Centers handled nearly 19
million calls, a slight decrease from the number of calls received
in 2016. Mild weather and an increase in electronic channels,
such as online bill payment, web-enabled payment agreements
and our new customer mobile app, resulted in lower call
volumes. As AEP continues to offer more enhanced energy and
service options, we expect those numbers to continue to decrease as customers use more self-serve options. When the new
Customer Operations Center technology comes online in 2018, we will be better equipped to respond to customers’ individual
needs, more efficiently and cost-effectively.Social Media
Customers decide how, when and where they interact with us. Increasingly, they are using a variety of social media platforms to
connect with us. Because they are always plugged in, they expect immediate response from us 24/7, similar to many other online
experiences. This is especially true during outages, when customers want real-time, accurate information about restoration efforts.
Between 2016 and 2017 we experienced a 29 percent
increase in Facebook fans and a 13 percent increase in Twitter
followers. We are developing a long-term plan to give us a
stronger social media presence that includes a better listening
platform, expanded monitoring, reporting and analysis of social
channels and a centralized social media center that will allow us
to engage more effectively with customers and other
stakeholders on social media channels.
Our expanded social media strategy will help us enhance the
service we provide to our customers who expect to be able to
interact and conduct business with us when it is convenient for
them. Our social media customer strategy focuses on:
Customer engagement – customer support and
response;
Social listening – online monitoring and brand protection; and
Proactive messaging – crisis management, storm and outage updates and marketing campaigns.
In 2017, AEP managed 16 Facebook pages, 14 Twitter handles, eight YouTube channels, three Instagram accounts and one
corporate LinkedIn page. Through our social media efforts, we had a total of 72 million Facebook impressions and 15.7 million
Twitter impressions. Impressions are the number of times a post from our page was displayed. Investor-related information and
power outages were the two most-talked-about categories via social media, followed by company news and environmental-related
posts.
Customer Satisfaction
Customers judge their experience with any company in terms of quality, reliability, billing and payment. Today, electric customers
also want choices, reasonably priced electricity and greater control of their energy use. And they are more likely to engage publicly,
increasingly through social media posts, when they are unhappy. Their perceptions of how well AEP is delivering on their
expectations can directly impact our reputation, as well as influence financial and regulatory outcomes.
Demonstrating that we care about our customers in every interaction is the hallmark of a positive customer experience. Providing
reliable and reasonably priced service is just the beginning. We have to understand and anticipate what our customers want and
make it easier for customers interact with us in their channel of choice. One way to measure our performance is through customer
satisfaction surveys.At AEP, our goal is to provide world-class customer service while creating a
positive lasting relationship with our customers.
J.D. Power Electric Utility Customer
Satisfaction Study
AEP regularly engages with residential, commercial and
industrial customers using a variety of phone and online
surveys, including the J.D. Power Electric Utility Residential
Customer Satisfaction StudySM. The 2017 survey measured
satisfaction among 137 electric utility brands in the U.S.
Satisfaction is evaluated according to a variety of factors:
power quality and reliability, price, billing and payment,
corporate citizenship, communications, and customer service.
AEP’s results show that overall customer satisfaction continues
to increase; our operating companies recorded improvements
in overall customer satisfaction from the prior year. However, we
can do better, and we are committed to improving our customer
satisfaction results.
In 2017, we set a customer satisfaction goal for most of our
operating companies to be ranked in the top quartile of the J.D.
Power Electric Utility Residential Customer Satisfaction Study
within their respective industry segments over the next three
years. Although we are currently ranked below several of our
peers, we are confident that through our Customer Experience Strategy and newly implemented customer solutions, such as our
customer bill redesign and mobile app, we will achieve our goals. In addition, this goal has been directly tied to incentive
compensation.
Residential Customer Panel
Sometimes we need to take the pulse of our customers to test an idea for a service or solution we’re considering. Having a forum
to test insights and ideas among customers is very valuable, especially as we work to become a more agile company.
AEP partnered with Bellomy Research to create a proprietary online panel of more than 5,500 residential customers across our
service territory. Randomly recruited panelists typically have the opportunity to participate in one to two surveys monthly. Survey
topics vary based on our research needs. In 2017, we surveyed customers on a range of issues, including outage notification
enhancements, novel rate designs and energy efficiency. Compared with traditional market research projects, the advantages of
having an online panel include lower cost, greater survey design flexibility, and shorter turnaround to get actionable results.
Customer Satisfaction – Recognition and Awards
Indiana Michigan Power (I&M) and Public Service Company of Oklahoma (PSO) were two of a select group of electric-only
utilities named 2017 Residential Customer Champions in a Cogent Reports study by Market Strategies International. I&M ranked
second among electric-only companies in the Midwest and PSO ranked fourth in the South. The study surveyed almost 60,000
customers from the 130 largest U.S. utility companies. The Customer Champion distinction was awarded to 17 of 60 electric-only
utilities plus 32 other natural gas and electric companies. This distinction is an example of how customer value and satisfaction is
actually being realized through our continued focus on improving the customer experience.
AEP Ohio earned top honors in the 2017 Large Business Gap and Priority Benchmark survey by E Source. More than 1,300
large business customers were surveyed in E Source’s nationally recognized benchmark, which measures utility key account
customer satisfaction. AEP Ohio received high scores for reliability, which was identified as the quality considered most important
to large business customers when it comes to utilities. AEP Ohio also earned high marks in other areas, including customer
satisfaction and perceived value of its account management team. The team was specifically praised by large business customers
for being trustworthy, easy to contact, and providing appropriate communication, especially during energy emergencies.
AEP’s National Accounts team was also recognized for its excellence in customer satisfaction by the Edison Electric Institute
(EEI), winning the 2017 Outstanding National Key Accounts Customer Service award. In addition, two employees were
recognized with the National Key Accounts Executive Award for Sustained Excellence in Outstanding Customer Service. These
awards align with AEP’s strategic goal of improving the customer experience by offering innovative energy solutions and excellent
customer service.
Customer Excellence
Measuring and monitoring customer satisfaction is something we do all the time, asking our customers for their opinions of AEP in
online or phone surveys. There are 15 customer relationship attributes we ask customers to grade us on, from how easy it is to do
business with AEP to their understanding of their bills. When customers say they are very satisfied with their overall experience
and rate AEP as “excellent” on all 15 attributes, then we have created a “magical moment.” We celebrate these magical moments
with our employees because it means that we did everything right in meeting or exceeding customers’ expectations.Examples of Magical Moments:
“They have always done a good job in the community. When they are out working on
our street, you can go out and ask those guys what’s going on. They will tell you exactly
what's going on. They always tell you when they are going to turn your power off, and for
how long.”
 
- 12/14/17 AEP Texas, Residential Customer
“When there’s a power outage, AEP responds quickly to restore power. They provide
neighborhood lights for my safety in this dangerous neighborhood. When my bill was
incorrect, they found the error and corrected it. They make available Homeserve
warranties. Their technicians are personable and knowledgeable and treat me with
courtesy, understanding my needs for better lighting around my house. The rate is the
best, for I've tried other aggregate companies, and I always paid more. I love and trust
AEP.”
- 2/23/17 AEP Ohio, Residential Customer
“The service people they have in the Wilburton area take care of people very well. As a
matter of fact, they come by and check on us once in a while to make sure we are doing
well. Their service man takes good care of the area, checks with the customers, and
stays involved with the community.”
- 3/1/17 PSO, Commercial Customer
“Kentucky Power responds in a very timely manner. I feel, considering the obstacles that
the company has to overcome to provide power to me where I live in Eastern Kentucky,
that they are doing a superb job. Thank you Kentucky Power for a job well done!”
- 2/1/17 Kentucky Power, Commercial Customer
Energy Assistance
From time to time, customers may experience financial hardships and need assistance paying their energy bills. These hardships
can put customers in a tough situation where they have to make tough choices between electricity and other basic human needs.
AEP has several initiatives and resources that help customers manage their electricity bills and reduce their energy consumption,
including energy efficiency programs, rebates and incentives, monthly payment plans and energy assistance grants and programs.
The funding available to support energy assistance programs comes from various sources, including the government, social
service agencies and even customers in some cases. Income guidelines determine eligibility. The funding level of different
programs can fluctuate from year to year based on several factors, including improvements in the economy that lessen demand for
aid, increased or decreased government funding of energy assistance programs, and other contributions or grants awarded to
support these programs.
Government-sponsored energy assistance programs provided approximately $63 million in federal and private energy assistance
in 2017. In addition, there were more than 18,000 pledges totaling $3.7 million in energy assistance from our self-serve agency
websites.
In early 2018, call volumes increased significantly as customers received their bills from heating their homes during extended cold
spells at the beginning of the year. We anticipated this and increased our communications with customers about bill payment
programs and other options for managing their high bills.
In response to customer need, Kentucky Power’s Home Energy Assistance Program (HEAP) will nearly double the number of
low-income families who can be helped in 2018. An order from the Kentucky Public Service Commission increased customer
contributions to the HEAP program from 15 cents to 30 cents a month. Kentucky Power will match the customer contributions
dollar for dollar with shareholder funds. Together, the program will generate nearly $1 million this year to provide heating and
cooling assistance to about 2,500 customers in the region.HEAP funds are distributed to customers who meet income
requirements set by community action agencies.
In addition to federal and private energy assistance, the AEP
Foundation also contributes financial support to help our
customers meet basic energy needs. In early 2018, the AEP
Foundation awarded a $50,000 grant to assist low-income
residents in Eastern Kentucky. The grant to Christian
Appalachian Project will help fund the nonprofit’s Elder Housing
and Family Housing programs. Both programs make home
repairs or install weatherization measures to achieve safe,
warm and dry living conditions for families and individuals who
cannot afford repairs. The Christian Appalachian project
currently has a waitlist of approximately 560 families in need.
AEP provides several options to help qualifying low-income
customers reduce costs while keeping their homes comfortable
and safe. Learn more about some of the many energy
assistance programs offered across AEP’s service territory:
Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program
(LIHEAP)
Appalachian Power: 
Take Charge Virginia
, 
West Virginia Utility Assistance Program
, 
Neighbor to Neighbor Fund
AEP Ohio: 
Ohio PIPP Plus
, 
Community Assistance Program
, 
Neighbor to Neighbor Program
Public Service Company of Oklahoma: 
Light A Life Fund
Southwestern Electric Power Company: 
Neighbor to Neighbor Fund
Stakeholder Engagement
Our ability to make informed decisions and to drive and embrace change is predicated on the relationships we have with our
various stakeholders and our commitment to transparency, collaboration and action. At AEP, stakeholder engagement is a
strategic priority. From our day-to-day operations and planning for the future to delivering an exceptional customer experience and
meeting our regulatory obligations, stakeholder engagement is core to our business.
Fundamentally, stakeholder engagement is about relationships and dialogue, and recognizing that our success is dependent on
multiple constituencies – from customers, investors and regulators to employees and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). It
builds rapport and a foundation of trust, which fuels buy-in, action and success. Through effective and ongoing engagement, we
gain valuable insights about our business, the impacts we have on society and the environment, our strengths, potential risks, and
opportunities for collaboration.
As interest in environment, social and governance (ESG) issues has increased, we have seen conversations with stakeholders
evolve. For example, more and more investors are looking at ESG performance. Customers want to know that our sustainability
values align with theirs – and that we can help them achieve their sustainability goals. Landowners are engaging with us as we
replace aging infrastructure in their communities. Investors are asking how we are managing carbon risk and about our mitigation
strategy. Still others want to know how they can collaborate with AEP to achieve the clean energy transition we are all seeking.
As we invest to modernize and improve reliability, resilience and security of the grid it’s important that we understand our
stakeholders’ concerns and priorities and strive for mutual understanding and seek opportunities for collaboration.AEP Transmission’s project outreach team uses open house events to
gather input from the the public and land owners.
Stakeholder Groups
Investors
Every year, our Lead Director of AEP’s Board of Directors engages in a proactive shareholder outreach program with interested
investors, along with a small company management delegation, to discuss matters from environment, social and governance
(ESG) issues to governance issues and other areas of interest.
In October 2017, we were invited by the U.S. SIF (Social
Investment Forum) to share AEP’s transformation story and
ESG performance to their members. We intend to organize
similar calls annually as a “fifth quarter” call.
In 2017, AEP piloted a new ESG/Sustainability reporting
template that helps provide electric industry investors with more
uniform and consistent ESG and sustainability-related metrics.
The qualitative and quantitative report was developed by
member companies of the Edison Electric Institute (EEI). The
first formal launch of the template will be issued in 2018; the
pilot gave companies a chance to test the format and data
collection process and receive valuable feedback from
investors, credit rating agencies and research organizations.
AEP is a member of the steering committee that helped to lead
the effort in collaboration with institutional investors who
specialize in asset management, ESG/sustainability,
investment banking, and buy-side and sell-side research.
Electric company officials from various disciplines, including
accounting, environment, ESG/sustainability, finance, treasury,
investor relations and legal developed the pilot metrics
collaboratively. 
See AEP’s EEI ESG/Sustainability Reporting
Pilot Template
.
Customers
Customers are increasingly engaging AEP around sustainability. They have business goals that include renewable energy,
reducing greenhouse gas emissions, efficient energy management, and a sustainable supply chain. Customers want to partner
with AEP to help them achieve these goals and, most importantly, empower them to manage their energy use and costs. Through
our regulated companies and competitive businesses, we are working with our customers to find solutions that match their needs.
In 2017, AEP joined the World Resources Institute’s Clean Power Council. This group of utilities and some of their large
commercial and industrial customers are collaborating on a shared goal to achieve an efficient and economic transition to clean
energy resources. The Council is also focused on enabling technologies that reduce greenhouse gas emissions—while growingtheir businesses across America. Participants represent technology, automotive, retail, and manufacturing sectors.
Non-Governmental Organizations
AEP regularly engages with non-governmental organizations (NGOs) within the environmental community on issues ranging from
our carbon profile, to new technologies, energy efficiency, renewable energy, and the evolution of our business model. In 2017, we
held one large group meeting and followed up with additional one-on-one meetings or conference calls throughout the year.
These are important touchpoints to ensure we understand their issues and they have accurate information about AEP. For
example, in 2017, we facilitated a tour of the Mountaineer Plant in West Virginia for the Ohio Environmental Council. Seeing first-
hand the complex process of producing electricity can be informative and spark productive dialogue and potentially lead to
collaboration.
Communities
From hosting open houses to launch new transmission projects to developing a resource plan that meets a community’s energy
and capacity needs, AEP is committed to being open, accessible, honest and responsive. AEP Transmission’s project outreach
team is an example of the type of proactive outreach we engage in across our business. Community outreach is very important to
AEP’s transmission business unit, where significant construction impacting the public is under way. AEP Transmission’s project
outreach team uses open house events, interactive project websites and other tools to gather input and work with the public, land
owners, government agencies, regulators and siting agencies. This proactive approach promotes transparency and two-way
communication; ensures compliance with laws and regulations; and gives affected individuals and communities a voice throughout
the process. In 2017, project outreach specialists supported 308 AEP projects and hosted 82 community open house events,
inside and outside of our traditional service territory.
Community Outreach for Other Projects
Outside of the AEP system, we use similar principles to engage the community and evaluate feedback. In 2017, Transource’s
Independence Energy Connection project in parts of Pennsylvania and Maryland presented hundreds of miles of route options for
communities and landowners to review during two rounds of open house events. Through mailers and public notices, Transource
publicized the events, and more than 1,000 people attended the 10 open houses, providing more than 2,500 comments. We make
every effort to be responsive.
Another avenue of stakeholder engagement occurs in our integrated resource planning (IRP) process. Most of our states have
formal stakeholder processes for developing these resource plans, while others are more informal. In all cases, the intent is to be
inclusive, listen to stakeholder ideas and concerns, answer their questions and consider their input as we develop resource plans
for our jurisdictions.
What We Learn from Stakeholders
Through ongoing dialogue with our many different stakeholders, we learn about what is important to them, what they think of
AEP and where the potential opportunities for collaboration exist. Key learnings are:
Awareness of AEP’s transformation progress is not as high as we would like, making proactive engagement
valuable for AEP and our many stakeholders.
Increasingly, there is greater interest in the “S” in ESG – social issues.
Engaging the public is critical to a project’s success; people want to be included, informed and heard.
Stakeholders want a voice in determining their energy future.
Outreach and transparency are important to building trust.
Customers appreciate AEP’s commitment to a clean energy future and want to collaborate with us to help them
achieve their sustainability goals.
Social and governance issues are increasingly important to many different stakeholders.
Next-Generation Stakeholder Engagement
As stakeholder needs change, we are evolving our approach to engagement. Stakeholders are engaging with us in different
communication channels on a broader range of issues, and we are adapting to those changing needs. While face-to-face
engagement is the most effective and desirable, it is not always possible. We need to continually communicate AEP’s
transformation story and hear diverse views from customers, investors, and employees, regulators, NGOs and others. The
changing scope and complexity of stakeholder interests as AEP transforms to being the leading energy company of the future
requires a fresh strategy that meets these new dynamics.In 2018, we are developing a new stakeholder engagement strategy. Our objective is to establish guiding principles for the future,
measurable outcomes, transparency and accountability. We want our new strategy to reflect the needs and expectations of our
stakeholders, as well as our own business needs.
We have a strong foundation from which to build. AEP’s commitment to stakeholder engagement spans more than a decade.
During that time, we have cultivated a commitment to engagement and transparency by being accessible, responsive, honest and
open with those with whom we engage. We seek to foster healthy, trusting relationships that turn conflict into cooperation and,
ultimately, into partnership and collaboration.Giving back to our communities by investing in our local economies is a fundamental
component of our company vision of powering a new and brighter future for our customers
and communities. AEP is proud to support the vibrancy and resilience of the communities
that we serve — as an energy company, as a utility and as a system of community support
and economic development.
Economic Development
AEP’s investments in economic development will enable
those living in our communities to develop the skills and
resources needed to build a sustainable future for
themselves.
Community Support
Giving back to our communities is a fundamental component
of our company vision of powering a new and brighter future
for our customers and communities.
Corporate Giving
Giving back to our communities is a fundamental component of our company vision of powering a new and brighter future for our
customers and communities. Through volunteerism and corporate giving, AEP is proud to support the vibrancy and resilience of
the communities that we serve – as an energy company, as a utility and as a system of community support. In 2017, AEP and the
American Electric Power Foundation donated approximately $16.8 million to support more than 1,520 community organizations.
A significant focus of our philanthropic giving is on education, especially STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math)
programs, and basic human needs, such as hunger and housing. 
Focusing on STEM provides a pathway out of poverty for urban
and rural youth. Many 21st century jobs will require proficiency in STEM courses, and these jobs have a high likelihood of
delivering a living wage. Complementing the focus on education is a commitment to work with the public and private sectors to
help those students, and their families, have access to nutritious food and a secure, safe place to live. We also support many
Credits Count
, the signature program of the AEP Foundation, addresses
the issues of college preparedness and affordability for underserved urban
and rural students who wish to seek STEM-related career opportunities.
cultural and community initiatives important to our customers.
Investing in Our Future through Education
AEP’s most significant area of philanthropic investment is STEM education. Credits Count
, the signature program of the AEP
Foundation, addresses the issues of college preparedness and affordability for underserved urban and rural students who wish to
seek STEM-related career opportunities. In December 2017, the AEP Foundation awarded a $1.58 million Credits Count
grant to reach approximately 2,200 students in Kanawha County, West Virginia, through partnership with BridgeValley Community
and Technical College. 
AEP’s total commitment to the program to $14.2 million ($5.3 million paid through 2017) across seven
states within AEP’s service territory.
Nitro High School and Riverside High School, as well as their
respective feeder middle schools, will work with BridgeValley to
support students in pursuing college-level STEM education
while completing their high school diplomas. At the end of the
program, students will graduate from high school with at least
12 credit hours toward a career-ready certificate or towards an
associate’s degree in a STEM field. BridgeValley is the
seventh recipient of the AEP Foundation’s Credits Count
program.
Lynchburg Beacon of Hope, an organization focused on
providing resources and tools for post-secondary educations to
public school students in Lynchburg, Virginia, was awarded a
$20,000 grant from the AEP Foundation in December 2017.
Beacon of Hope aims to empower students by building
pathways between high school and higher education,
subsequently addressing barriers that prevent students from
accessing opportunities of higher education. This grant will fund
the Future Centers program, which provides resources that
support financial aid, college admissions, and after school
technical training programs to public high school students.
The Boys & Girls Club of Bartlesville, Oklahoma, is an
organization that enables young people, especially those who
are most in need, to reach their full potential. In August 2017,
the AEP Foundation granted $75,000 in support of the organization’s new Science, Technology, Engineering, Art, and Math
(STEAM) Laboratory, which opened in December of 2017. This facility features computers for academic research, robotic
coursework, and hands on experimentation through STEAM programming. With this resource, the Boys & Girls Club will be better
equipped to help students tap into their full potential, especially as demand for this programming grows.
AEP established the Teacher Vision Grant program in 2003 to provide better opportunities for student academic achievement and
creativity. Teachers of pre-K through grade 12 receive funding to help implement classroom projects that enable students to
achieve these goals. For example, in May 2017, 199 teachers received a total of $69,000, including 15 teachers who received
grants totaling $7,500 from AEP’s Southwestern Electric Power Company throughout its three state service area. Specifically,
these teachers are implementing projects that focus on science, mathematics, technology, electrical safety, energy efficiency, and
the balanced study of energy and the environment.
Investing in Basic Human Needs
Community organizations play a pivotal role in the well-being of individual community members, as well as the social fabric of the
community itself. These organizations provide assistance for shelter, food, education, skills training, and more. We realize that
investing in the resources of community organizations bridges the gap between the potential of an individual to be independent and
the obstacles to success that they might face. When we elevate and invest in our communities, we are helping to build a brighter
future.
In December 2017, the AEP Foundation awarded $50,000 to initiate a workforce development and housing opportunity program
run through the organization MOSAIC, which serves the community of Benton Harbor and Berrien County, Michigan. This
program, called MOSAIC Develop, will connect individuals in its workforce development programs to home renovation projects in
the community. Six to 10 homes per year will be renovated, providing affordable housing options and investments for local low
income residents. The program is expected to be 80 percent self-supporting within the first three years.
The YMCA of Greater Fort Wayne, Indiana, accepted a $100,000 grant from the AEP Foundation in November 2017 to build a
new facility. The facility is specifically focused on promoting wellness for people living with intellectual and developmental
disabilities. These resources provide recreational and social opportunities for people with disabilities that are not traditionally
available in community wellness activities.
SM
SM
SM
SMEvery year, AEP employees from around our service territory donate time,
talent and financial sponsorship to a variety of organizations throughout our
states.
Volunteerism
Supporting community projects and programs requires more than financial support; it requires time and labor to make progress
possible. Every year, AEP employees from around our service territory donate time, talent and financial sponsorship to a variety of
organizations throughout our states. We are proud to call our employees social change agents, and we are continuously inspired
by commitment within our communities. Our employees are consistent in their efforts, both when times are good and when
hardship strikes.
The value of employee volunteerism to our communities and our
company is long-lasting and impactful. With our new
sustainability goals, we will strive to increase our presence in
our communities through employee volunteerism to enhance the
quality of life, advance and expand education opportunities for
underserved populations and create shared social and
economic benefits. Through these efforts, we hope to better
serve our local communities and enable them to prosper.
We were reminded of the importance of community giving as
natural disasters devastated parts of our service territories and
beyond. In 2017, $122,533 in special relief donations were
given by our employees to The Salvation Army through the AEP
Emergency Disaster Fund. The AEP Foundation matched 100
percent of the employee contributions to help relieve the
impacts of Hurricane Harvey in Texas and Maria in Puerto
Rico.
Other Community Contributions
Make a Difference Day (MDD) has been a fundamental
component of employee volunteerism since its launch in 2005,
where AEP provides up to $300 to assist employees in
implementing service projects throughout our service territories.
In 2017, all seven of AEP’s operating companies participated
in MDD, spanning nine states, 21 different projects, and hundreds of employee volunteers. These projects support a variety of
agencies, including recreation centers, youth resource centers, animal rescue programs, veterans care centers, low-income family
support centers, food pantries, and community beautification initiatives.
In 2017, active and retired employees came together to build a new home in the Linden area of Columbus, Ohio, through a grant
from the AEP Foundation and in partnership with Habitat for Humanity. This is the 20th home built in central Ohio by AEP+ click to enlarge
employees, with volunteers contributing their time on a weekly basis from spring to fall. The home was built to green building
standards, which helps to maximize energy and resource efficiency – and thus affordability – for the homeowner. The use of
energy-efficient building materials, designs and appliances results in lower energy use and cost savings through lower utility bills,
by as much as $400 annually.
For 13 years in a row, AEP employees in central Ohio have participated in the Meals on Wheels Corporate Route program
through the agency LifeCare Alliance. Through the program, AEP volunteers deliver meals to older adults and chronically ill people
who are unable to provide meals for themselves. Nearly 100 AEP employees participate in this program, using their lunch hours to
provide this service. LifeCare Alliance saves more than $26,000 annually due to the contribution of AEP’s volunteers, which
improves their ability to address the community’s need for health and nutrition services.
In December 2017, Public Service Company of Oklahoma (PSO) was presented with the 2017 Excellence in Volunteer
Mobilization STEM Mentoring Award by US2020, a government organization that promotes STEM mentorship in 52 participating
U.S. cities. PSO employees volunteer in classroom settings and through mentorship programs in support of STEM teaching. One
program is “Me & My Math Mentor” (M4) at Tulsa Public Schools’ Chouteau Elementary School, a math mentoring program
through the Tulsa Regional STEM Alliance. Employees serve as math mentors, but also as coordinators for the program, which
includes collaborating with other Tulsa-area companies that participate in M4.
Economic and Business Development
Building strong, vibrant and sustainable communities requires innovation, investment and collaboration among state, regional and
local business partners. AEP’s Economic & Business Development (E&BD) team puts its expertise and partnerships to work
supporting economic development and growth within our local communities. Whether through supporting business expansion or
relocation, community training and education or financial support – we are connecting customers with communities to create
shared value for all.
AEP provides comprehensive location advisory services to companies looking to expand or locate new operations. This includes
property searches and screening; custom community and site analysis; and introductions to local economic development partners
and industry resources. 
In 2017, we supported 125 projects that will bring more than 18,000 jobs to the local economies across our
11-state service territory. Economic development helps our communities in several ways, including increasing the tax base, job
development, economic diversification and capacity-building for long-term sustainability.
Business Development
We have a focused effort to generate business development opportunities from prospective and current customers. AEP’s
National Accounts team manages corporate relationships with many of our largest customers. The team works closely with these
large energy users on expansions and energy solutions and services that can optimize their consumption and costs.
Beyond current customers, we have staff and a network of consultants focused on proactively identifying and managing business
relationships with companies in target industry sectors to secure investment in new facilities across the AEP system. In addition to
pursuing domestic companies, our efforts include attracting foreign direct investment (FDI) to our service territory. FDI is a key
source of capital, job creation and innovation.The E&BD team provides comprehensive location advisory services to
companies looking to expand or locate new operations.
According to the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S.
remains an attractive FDI destination due to its large consumer
base, workforce productivity, legal protections and innovative
business environment. The 2017 Federal Tax Reform puts the
U.S. corporate tax rate more in line with those levied by other
major developed nations, which is also favorable for our ability
to attract foreign investment.
We work with consultants in target markets in Europe, Asia and
North America and participate in events in key international
markets to identify and engage with prospective international
companies. One event is the SelectUSA Investment Summit.
Sponsored by the U.S. Department of Commerce, this summit
brings together global executives and business leaders,
targeting companies looking to grow in the United States. AEP
has participated as a sponsor of this summit since its inception
in 2014.
Our work with Sofidel, S.p.A. - a leading manufacturer of
domestic and hygienic tissue paper based in Italy, is one
example of how we can support international companies.
Conversations about their interest in U.S. expansion began
during the 2015 SelectUSA Summit. With assistance from
AEP Ohio and a large coalition of economic development
organizations representing the central Ohio region, Sofidel
selected Circleville, Ohio, as the location for its first U.S.
greenfield investment, a nearly $300 million integrated paper
mill. The 280-acre site selected by Sofidel required major
infrastructure work to prepare the site for construction, including
moving an AEP transmission line that ran through the middle of
the property. The facility is scheduled to begin operations in
2018 and will employ approximately 300 workers.
In March 2018, Sofidel further expanded its U.S. presence by
announcing a second greenfield investment to build an
integrated plant in Inola, Oklahoma. The land for the new facility
is owned by Public Service Company of Oklahoma and is part
of AEP Quality Sites program. The $360 million investment in
the new Oklahoma facility is expected to support 300 jobs and
to be operational by mid-2020. PSO worked with Rogers
County and Inola leadership to prepare the site, which was the
location of a canceled nuclear power plant.
Quality Sites Program
A primary focus of our activities is the development of build-
ready industrial properties across our 11-state territory. AEP’s
Quality Sites Program identifies sites that have infrastructure
and utilities in place and have completed due diligence studies
to help growing businesses minimize overall site location risk,
save time and reduce development costs. In 2017, we added
16 new industrial properties to our Quality Sites Program,
bringing the total number of sites to 45. We also sold five sites
to support business expansion and relocation in our service
territory:
Daleville, Virginia – Botetourt County Greenfield
Industrial Park - Eldor
Findlay, Ohio – Midwest I-75 Logistics Park – Campbell
Soup Company
Tulsa, Oklahoma – Cherokee Expressway Industrial Park
Site – Allen Edwards Construction
Longview, Texas – North Business Park - Dollar GeneralThe abundance of natural gas and related liquid resources provides
important growth opportunities that support local economic and business
development and create new jobs. 
Ashland, Kentucky – EastPark Industrial Site – Braidy Industries
Economic & Business Development Awards
In 2017, AEP was named one of the nation’s top utilities for economic development by Site Selection Magazine, for the sixth
consecutive year. AEP was recognized for its effort to cultivate commercial and industrial business development and for creating
new jobs. The magazine reviewed end-user project activity, website tools and data, innovative programs and incentives for
businesses, and the utility’s own job-creating infrastructure and facility investment trends.
In 2017, AEP was awarded the Bronze Excellence in Economic Development Award for its redesigned website, in the General
Purpose Website category, from the International Economic Development Council (IEDC).
Redesigned in 2015, aeped.com is the digital platform for AEP’s Economic & Business Development organization. The
responsive website was built to provide relevant and timely information through a user-friendly interface to key audiences – site
selectors, expanding companies and community economic development partners.
Customer Connections
One of our target industry sectors for growth is data centers. AEP’s transmission reliability and capacity, coupled with availability of
fiber and pro-business environments, makes our 11-state region an attractive business location for this industry. We proactively
reach out to growing technology and enterprise companies to share our region’s strengths and AEP’s capabilities via industry
tradeshows, social media and direct marketing.
Two major project announcements in 2017 were from Facebook and TierPoint. In August, Facebook announced the location of a
new data center in New Albany, Ohio expected to open in 2019. 
The project that led to Facebook’s plans to invest $750 million to
construct a 970,000-square-foot facility began in 2014 and became active again in the spring of 2017. 
It required close
collaboration between E&BD and transmission planning to meet Facebook’s compressed project schedule. In May 2017,
TierPoint, a provider of information technology and data center services, announced its investment of $20 million into its second
Tulsa data center. The facility went online in February 2018. Cost-competitive power was cited by TierPoint as a key reason for
selecting Tulsa.
In addition to enterprise and co-location data centers, we’re also pursuing data center industry opportunities related to the growth
of edge computing and blockchain technology.
Shale Gas
AEP’s service territory overlaps five of the seven major shale formations in the United States (as identified by the U.S. Energy
Information Administration). The abundance of these natural gas and related liquid resources provides important growth
opportunities that support local economic and business development and create new jobs.
For example, increased shale gas drilling and production in
Northern West Virginia prompted MarkWest Energy Partners
to expand its plant and increase load at its Majorsville
midstream natural gas processing facilities southeast of
Wheeling. MarkWest, the largest processer of natural gas in the
Marcellus shale region, needs additional electrical capacity to
support its expansion, which is scheduled to be complete in late
2018. AEP responded promptly to meet the customer’s load
growth by identifying upgrades in the area to prevent overloads
and voltage issues to be completed in the same timeframe.
As oil and gas drilling activities have increased in shale gas-
rich regions of the country, the incidents of earthquakes have
also been increasing, causing concern in affected communities.
The U.S. Geological Survey and others have tied the process
of wastewater disposal from oil and gas extraction activities to
surges in earthquakes in eight states – including four states in
AEP’s service territory (Arkansas, Ohio, Oklahoma and
Texas). As we rely more heavily on natural gas for 24/7 power
generation, we will look to that industry to ensure responsible
practices are in place to minimize environmental impacts, and
address earthquake concerns.
Community Training,Education & Support
AEP helps communities prepare for growth by offering economic development training and assisting them in developing assets to
make them more attractive to companies seeking new locations. In 2017, we sponsored three web-based economic development
training courses with industry consultants on the topics of sales and marketing strategies and site development. Approximately 175
individuals from partner organizations participated in the webinars.
AEP’s operating companies provide scholarships for local economic development partner organizations to attend economic
development courses. Our support helps them build capacity for long-term sustainability. In 2017, our operating companies
provided 27 scholarships for partners to attend training courses, including the University of Oklahoma Economic Development
Institute, the University of Central Arkansas Community Development Institute, and other courses offered by state economic
development associations.
AEP employees provide additional support to local, regional and national economic development organizations through
participation on their boards and councils. In 2017, AEP employees contributed in this advisory capacity to over 70 organizations.
Economic Development Grants for Growth
Several AEP operating companies provided grant funding to local and regional economic development organizations in 2017 to
spur economic growth and create jobs. These grants focus on workforce development and job preparedness programs to increase
the competitiveness of our local communities.
APCO EDGE Grants:
Eight organizations received grants ranging from $5,000 to $20,000 through the company’s Economic Development
Growth Enhancement (EDGE) program. A total of $91,000 was awarded. EDGE Grant recipients in 2017 included:
Martinsville–Henry County Economic Development Corporation: $20,000 for the development of comprehensive
marketing materials for the Commonwealth Crossing Industrial Park and the Commonwealth Centre for Advanced
Training (CCAT), which will enable companies to recruit, hire, and train employees at a new facility in the park.
Robert C. Byrd Institute (RCBI): $13,000 to RCBI, part of the Marshall University Research Corporation, to support
research and a feasibility study of an aerospace maintenance, repair and overhaul facility (MRO) for the Tri-State Region
of West Virginia, Ohio and Kentucky.
AEP OHIO LEAP Grants:
Twenty one organizations were awarded a total of $162,000 through AEP Ohio’s Local Economic Assistance Program (LEAP).
With increasing shortages in skilled trades, communities are focused on workforce development and many of our LEAP grant
recipients are on the leading edge of workforce development trends in Ohio. LEAP Grant recipients in 2017 included:
Wyandot and Crawford Counties: $8,000 for the development of an online job preparedness resource for high school
students.
Fostoria Economic Development Corporation: $5,000 for the creation of a jobs campaign focused on employee
recruitment and workforce development.
Kentucky Power Grants:
Kentucky Power KEAP and K-PEGG Grants: Kentucky Power awarded 19 grants totaling $674,870 in 2017 through its two grant
programs, Kentucky Power Economic Development Growth Grants (K-PEGG) and KEAP (Kentucky Power Economic
Advancement Program). Recipients included:
One East Kentucky: KEAP grant of $88,200 to fund the development of a helicopter painting facility at the Big Sandy
Regional Airport for Thoroughbred Aviation Maintenance. Once constructed, the Thoroughbred facility will be the only
helicopter paint facility within 400 miles.
Eastern Kentucky Advanced Manufacturing Institute (eKAMI): KEAP grant of $50,000 toward repurposing a facility to re-
train out-of-work coal miners in skills necessary for advanced manufacturing.
Shaping Our Appalachian Region, Inc. (SOAR): K-PEGG grant of $25,000 to help SOAR fulfill its mission of expanding
job creation; enhancing regional opportunity, innovation, and identity, improving the quality of life and supporting all those
working to achieve these goals in Appalachian Kentucky.
Southeast Kentucky Economic Development Corporation: K-PEGG grant of $60,000 to assist four companies in+ click to enlarge
obtaining quality control certifications necessary to compete for subcontracting work to major military and government
contractors.
Supporting Appalachia
Through AEP’s Economic & Business Development (E&BD) efforts, we are building stronger partnerships with our local
communities to help revitalize some of the hardest hit communities from the changes in the coal industry. Three states in the heart
of Appalachia have been particularly impacted. Kentucky, Ohio and West Virginia experienced job losses, the loss of tax revenue
to support local public services, and the loss of indirect economic benefits of having a locally employed workforce. In response,
AEP’s E&BD team established targeted efforts to revitalize those communities by attracting new industry and jobs, and
empowering them to take the lead in rebuilding their communities.
In addition to serving customers and maintaining operations in
Appalachia, we live and work in these communities. It is
important to us that these communities recover and thrive
because their strength and growth is also good for AEP.
In 2017, AEP and our regional economic development partners
launched Appalachian Sky – an initiative that began in AEP’s
Kentucky territory and grew to encompass AEP territories in
the Tri-State region (eastern Kentucky, southwestern Ohio, and
western West Virginia). The initiative’s purpose is to
aggressively attract aerospace and aviation industry to AEP’s
central Appalachia service region. Appalachian Sky was
inspired by the intelligence and work ethic of the coal mining
and steel working communities as captured in the movie
“October Sky” and chronicled in the memoir “Rocket Boys” by
West Virginia native Homer Hickam.
The genius of Appalachian Sky was sparked by the completion
of a comprehensive regional workforce analysis in AEP’s
Kentucky territory. The research showed that coal miners, many
of whom have lost their jobs due to recent mine closings, have
the skills that aerospace and advanced manufacturing
companies need. The study, which was funded in part with
Kentucky Power economic development grants, concluded that
the region had eight times the national average of skilled metal
workers - recognizing the potential of the aerospace industry to
diversify the central Appalachian economy.
AEP then commissioned a leading aerospace consultancy to determine the viability of aerospace in Appalachia’s coal and steel
country. The consultancy certified 14 counties as AeroReady in the Tri-State region furthering the belief that aerospace can thrive
in Appalachia. Five additional counties are working toward certification in 2018. We have also focused on preparing sites in the
region through our AEP Quality Sites Program and other site development work.
In the short time of the Appalachian Sky initiative, the region has already seen an uptick in prospective companies considering or
committing to expansion in Central Appalachia. For example, Kentucky Power has been able to actively market the region with
state and local partners, resulting in six key manufacturing project announcements for the region in 2017:
Braidy Industries, aluminum rolling mill, 550 jobs (plus 1,000 construction jobs), Ashland, KY;
Silver Liner, a tanker truck manufacturer, 300 jobs, Pikeville, KY;
AppHarvest, an agricultural grow operation, 140 jobs, Pikeville, KY;
EnerBlu, advanced battery manufacturer, 875 jobs, Pikeville, KY;
Wright-Mix Materials, liquid chemicals, grouts, cement products, 130 jobs, Greenup County; and,
Thoroughbred Aviation, aircraft maintenance, avionics, painting, 15 jobs, Martin County.
Beyond the successes in Kentucky Power, we continue to encourage and support the development of the Tri-State aerospace
initiative. 
Visit Appalachian Sky
 for more information.
Supporting the Federal Sector
Military and other federal government agencies/facilities are an important customer segment and growth area for AEP. 
In 2017, weAEP's investments in upgrading transmission infrastructure directly and
indirectly support communities through increased tax base, economic
activity and employment.
expanded our team to include a dedicated resource to pursue business development opportunities within this sector. 
Our focus is
on three areas of interest –Utility Energy Services Contracts (UESC) within our regulated footprint; various business development
opportunities outside of our regulated service territory with our competitive utilities (e.g., AEP Energy Partners); and Utilities
Privatization (UP) of military facilities both within and outside our regulated footprint.
In all, AEP provides electric service through our regulated business to over 3,500 federal accounts. Thirty of those accounts are
associated with larger facilities, which may present opportunities for UESC-type work. UESC provides federal customers with
comprehensive energy and water efficiency improvements and demand reduction services. UESC projects can encompass a
broad range of energy conservation measures (ECM), including system upgrades and recommissioning, deep retrofit projects,
renewable energy, cogeneration plants and microgrids. The work is performed through third-party energy service companies
(ESCOs). AEP has Master Service Agreements with six energy services companies (ESCOs) – Ameresco, Brewer-Garrett,
Energy Systems Group, Honeywell, Noresco and Siemens. AEP is tracking several UESC opportunities that may be released in
2018.
Identifying and bidding on federal opportunities outside our regulated service area is a key business development focus. This
initiative competitively aligns AEP with its peers. 
In collaboration with AEP’s competitive affiliates, our strategy is to identify federal
acquisitions supporting AEP Energy’s overall business goals and objectives while maximizing their core strengths. An example of
this collaboration strategy was the award of a $362 million contract with the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) Energy in February
2018 to provide over 6.5 terrawatts (TW) of electricity to various U.S. government and military installations operating in the PJM
Interconnection over a five year period beginning in 2019.
We are also partnering with military facilities to offer solutions to privatize their on-base utility systems (electricity, natural gas,
water, and wastewater). These opportunities allow AEP to operate and maintain the facilities electricity systems. Privatization of
such utility systems is important because it results in safe, reliable and efficient utility services for military installations and relieves
installation commanders of activities performed more efficiently and effectively by AEP. Two examples of existing UP contracts are
with Goodfellow Air Force Base, San Angelo, TX and Red River Army Depot, Texarkana, TX.
Grid Investments Support Local Growth, Reliability
AEP’s financial commitment to modernizing the grid 
supports growth and investments from commercial and industrial customers
and helps us manage future maintenance costs while improving reliability. A large portion of AEP’s investments are committed to
replacing or upgrading underperforming or obsolete transmission facilities. These aging transmission and distribution facilities
require more frequent and costly maintenance; replacing them reduces those costs. In addition, AEP is investing in projects that
enhance grid security and modernize the telecom network along the electric system.
From 2017 through 2019, AEP is investing approximately $9
billion in transmission infrastructure. These investments will
focus on replacing aging facilities and making the grid more
resilient. They will also help reduce the costs associated with
meeting the growth needs of our commercial and industrial
customers in the future. These investments y increase reliability
and resilience of the grid today while providing capacity for
future load growth or reducing 
the cost of expanding the system
in the future. When we make improvements, a net benefit is the
reduction in the amount of energy lost as power flows through
the lines and substations (also known as line losses).
To measure and quantify the direct and indirect economic
benefits of AEP’s transmission infrastructure investments, AEP
Transmission commissioned a study from The Brattle Group,
an economic consulting firm. The report analyzed the
transmission investments made, or planned to be made, by
AEP from 2012 through 2019 in all eleven states where AEP
serves retail electricity customers. 
The report identifies
significant regional and local benefits – directly and indirectly –
from AEP’s transmission investments, including new jobs, local
business growth, and tax base enhancements.
The analysis recorded a total of $19.2 billion in investments,
with $10.2 billion invested between 2012 and 2016, and an
additional $9 billion in investments from 2017 through 2019. 
These transmission investments provide significant benefits directly to
AEP’s customers and to the states where the company operates.
The analysis also looked at the efficiency gained by replacing aging infrastructure. The Brattle Group studied a sample of 84
transmission line reconductoring projects and analyzed them by how much line loss decrease occurred due to these investments.
For the sample studied, we found that losses decreased by 55 percent, on average. Reducing transmission line losses couldmean that AEP needs to produce or purchase less power to serve its load – which directly reduces the cost of serving our retail
customers. The study concluded that the net present value of savings due to lower power consumption caused by lower line losses
is estimated to be nearly $110 million over the lifetime of the investment.
In addition, reduced line losses during peak demand hours would also provide customer savings through reduced capacity needs.
The Southwest Power Pool (SPP) has estimated the value of capacity, and, according to SPP’s assumption, customers would
realize additional capacity savings of approximately $127 million (present value terms) over the lifetime of the investments in the
sample study. These are significant financial and reliability benefits for our customers, as well as operational improvements for how
we manage the grid.
The Brattle report found that AEP’s projected $9 billion investment in transmission infrastructure in 2017-2019 is estimated to
support on average over 34,000 full-time-equivalent jobs during each of those years. According to the Brattle report, AEP’s
planned investments during this timeframe “are estimated to stimulate $12.7 billion of economic activity, or about $4.2 billion per
year.” 
When the analysis looked at all of AEP’s transmission investments between 2012 and 2019, the impact was significantly
larger.
Sustainable Procurement
We work with our suppliers at the local, regional and national levels to drive continuous improvement and efficiencies within the
supply chain while improving environmental and safety performance.
Non-fuel Suppliers
AEP buys billions of dollars in goods and services every year, ranging from chemical solvents and office supplies to vehicles and
industrial equipment from national, regional and local suppliers. As a large company, we are able to manage costs by negotiating
prices, being strategic about sourcing and managing inventory. By applying a procurement category management model, we are
able to look at the whole value chain from sourcing through inventory.
We continue to improve efficiency through strategic sourcing - optimizing what we buy and how we buy it. Our procurement team is
getting involved earlier in the purchasing process and standardizing the process by educating employees on best procurementpractices.
We continue to leverage technology through e-commerce solutions, software and tool consolidation and standardization, which
includes exploring robotic process automation.
Protecting the bulk electric system includes extending cyber security protections to the supply chain. AEP has developed a third-
party risk governance program to identify potential risks introduced through third-party vendors. And, in January 2018, the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) proposed approving new mandatory Reliability Standards to mitigate cyber security
risks associated with the supply chain products connected to grid-related cyber systems.
Sustainability in the Supply Chain
We have seen an increased interest from our supply chain in our Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) performance. In
2018, AEP conducted an online sustainability assessment of our company, at the request of two of our largest customers. We
attempt to be responsive whenever possible while also being mindful of the value-add for completing these assessments, as these
assessments require significant effort, including time and resources. We also try to be transparent in our performance reporting
through our annual Corporate Accountability Report as well as through other surveys, such as the CDP and our Global Reporting
Initiative (GRI) Report.
We respond annually to the 
CDP’s Supply Chain Survey
. This survey aims to drive action on climate change among both
purchasing companies and their suppliers. The survey provides us with a different platform for being transparent about our
sustainable supply chain efforts and collects business-related climate change information from our suppliers.“The energy industry is in an era of transformation, moving rapidly toward a cleaner energy
economy. American Electric Power is at the forefront of this transition to modernize the
power grid, diversify our resources and deliver cost-effective, reliable electricity to
customers and value to our shareholders. Our business strategy and resource planning
have created a path forward that will result in the clean energy our customers want and,
consequently, lower carbon dioxide emissions.”
-Nick Akins, 
Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer
Coal Combustion Residuals
AEP is committed to handling coal ash disposal areas in a
way that puts safety first while protecting the environment,
minimizing impacts to the communities and managing our
customers’ costs.
Clean Energy Future
AEP’s strategy for a clean energy future includes new
carbon dioxide emission reduction goals and investments in
renewable resources and advanced technologies to
enhance the efficiency of the power grid.
Environment, Safety and Health Philosophy
No aspect of operations is more important than the health and safety of people. Our customers’ needs are met in harmony with
environmental protection.
Environment, Safety and Health Policy
AEP is committed to social responsibility and sustainability. We are proactive in our efforts to protect people and the environment
by committing to:
View our 
AEP: Strategic Vision for
a Clean Energy Future
M
aintain compliance with all applicable Environment, Safety and Health (ES&H) requirements while pursuing the spirit of
ES&H stewardship.
E
nsure that people working for or on behalf of AEP understand and integrate ES&H responsibilities into their business
functions.
S
upport continual improvement of environmental performance and pollution prevention.
H
azard elimination through employee involvement and continual health and safety improvement.
Carbon & Climate
Here is an excerpt from Chairman, President & CEO Nick Akins in AEP’s new clean energy
report – AEP’s Strategic Vision for a Clean Energy Future:
The energy industry is in an era of transformation, moving rapidly toward a cleaner energy
economy. American Electric Power is at the forefront of this transition to modernize the power
grid, diversify our resources and deliver cost-effective, reliable electricity to customers and value
to our shareholders. Our business strategy and resource planning have created a path forward
that will result in the clean energy our customers want and, consequently, lower carbon dioxide
emissions.
We have been engaging stakeholders on AEP’s long-term sustainability for more than a
decade. This dialogue includes the efficient use of energy, our evolving business model as the
grid is modernized, the reduction of our carbon footprint as we diversify our resource portfolio
and the way we manage risk. Different stakeholders have different concerns, but universally we
are asked about our preparedness to transition to a clean energy future. This is a fair question.
Emissions
AEP has made significant long-term investments in environmental controls to reduce the impact of how we generate electricity.
Between 2000 and 2017, AEP invested approximately $8.6 billion in environmental controls, primarily related to the Clean Air Act,
that have significantly reduced emissions. Since 1990, AEP reduced its annual emissions of sulfur dioxide (SO
) and nitrogen
oxide (NOx) by approximately 95 percent and 92 percent, respectively. Since 2001, AEP reduced its annual mercury emissions by
approximately 95 percent.
Mercury emissions information is reported to the EPA under the 
Toxics Release Inventory program
.
2Environmental compliance is a high priority for the lifecycle of every project
we undertake. Our goal is zero enforcement actions – zero violations of
Environmental Performance
As our business changes, some things remain constant. One of those is our commitment to environmental excellence and
stewardship. To help us achieve the level of excellence we strive for, we push ourselves toward prevention, accountability,
engagement and continuous improvement.
Our facilities are subject to environmental regulatory and
permitting requirements at the federal, state and local levels for
which we must demonstrate compliance. Our goal is zero
enforcement actions – zero violations of environmental
regulations or laws. We are also subject to routine
environmental inspections of our facilities through scheduled –
and unannounced – visits. During these visits, regulators
inspect physical facilities and monitor our compliance with
regulatory requirements, permit limits and record-keeping
obligations.
Whenever agencies identify concerns, we work with them to
address those issues in a timely fashion. This could include
identifying and implementing any corrective measures that may
be needed to mitigate future risks. One way we check on our
own compliance is through audits. Audits provide additional
focus on controlling risks and providing assurance that robust
compliance processes are developed and implemented
system-wide. In 2017, we conducted internal audits of
environmental programs at more than 30 locations.environmental regulations or laws.
John Amos Plant Ash Pond Closure
Environmental audits reveal areas where performance related
to regulatory requirements and company policies may be
improved such as recordkeeping details, inspection criteria,
training topics and equipment configuration. Auditors also work
to recognize practices that go beyond requirements to bring about robust and sustained compliance. Although reports are site
specific, results are aggregated and shared system-wide to improve performance throughout AEP.
Our responsibility to environmental compliance will continue for requirements that remain effective at AEP-owned properties where
generating units have been retired. This includes many existing state environmental requirements, in particular, those related to the
management of water and coal-combustion byproducts. We continue to work closely with regulators as we move through the
decommissioning process.
Measuring Performance to Drive Improvement
For many years, AEP’s Generation business unit has used metrics to encourage self-reporting of events and to improve
environmental performance. An Environmental Performance Index (EPI) was established to set annual goals related to opacity,
water discharge permits and oil and chemical spills at our generation facilities. In the past, the EPI tracked only events over which
we had immediate and significant control.
In 2017, we expanded the EPI to include all reported events specific to NPDES permit expectations and spill events. By
expanding the focus to all events, we are increasing awareness on prevention, which encourages sharing as we learn and drives
us to be more proactive.
We set targets focusing on continuous improvement as we strive for zero enforcement actions and zero events. In addition, we
started a program for good catches for environmental performance, similar to our safety and health Good Catch program. This
demonstrates AEP’s commitment to an engaging and accountable culture – using knowledge-sharing and lessons learned to
prevent future non-compliance events.
Environmental compliance is a high priority for the lifecycle of every project we undertake. In our Transmission business, where a
large part of construction work is taking place, we developed a mandatory environmental compliance training program for all
members of the project teams, and we provide support from environmental specialists and engineers to achieve full compliance
with environmental permit requirements. This is important to us as we invest approximately $3 billion annually during the next three
years to modernize transmission infrastructure across the country.
New Source Review
In 2007, AEP signed a court-approved settlement of New Source Review (NSR) litigation. In 2013, a modification to the decree
was approved by the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Ohio, Eastern Division. The modification lowered a
systemwide SO
 emission cap for AEP plants that becomes increasingly stringent through 2029.
We report annually on our compliance with the consent decree requirements. Below is an archive of our NSR Annual Reports:
2017 NSR Annual Report
2016 NSR Annual Report
2015 NSR Annual Report
2014 NSR Annual Report
2013 NSR Annual Report
Environmental Regulations
Evolving U.S. environmental policy considerations have not
changed our plans for complying with all applicable
environmental regulations. While some regulations, such as the
Disposal of Coal Combustion Residuals from Electric Utilities
rule or the Steam Electric Effluent Guidelines, have an unclear
path forward, there are many more regulations that we must
comply with and new ones that are still being finalized. As the
scope and stringency of environmental regulations evolve, we
are faced with technical, operational and financial challenges
that are common for our industry. These challenges, including
uncertainties with timing, scope and magnitude of future
environmental regulations, influence our decisions to upgrade
or retire generating units. They also affect the planning process
2AEP is committed to closing coal ash basins in a way that puts safety first
while protecting the environment, minimizing impacts to the communities
and managing our customers’ costs.
for new generation and transmission projects across our
industry.
AEP’s active participation in the development of regulations
helps to ensure that new requirements are achievable, based
on sound science, consistent with statutory authority, balanced
with other rulemakings, weigh the cost of compliance for
customers and can be implemented in a rational time frame.
Compliance is important to us, but we also have a responsibility
to our investors, who fund the required capital investment and to
our customers, who will ultimately pay for the implementation of
compliance strategies.
For a complete update on environmental regulations, please
reference pages 9 through 12 in our 
2017 Annual 10-K filing
.
Coal Combustion Residuals
The issue of coal ash disposal and handling came to the forefront nearly a decade ago and has since been subjected to a new
federal rule covering the handling, disposal and storage of coal combustion residuals (CCR).
CCRs are the solid material left over after coal is burned to
generate electricity. For decades, many state environmental
agencies regulated landfills and surface impoundments where
CCRs are placed. In 2015, the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) established minimum federal rules for storage
and disposal of these materials. These minimum requirements
were designed to be self-implementing and enforced by the
public.
Since the rule became final, AEP has put several programs in
place to ensure compliance and established a new leadership
role to oversee these efforts. AEP has a formal ash basin
inspection program based on federal dam safety guidelines
and applicable state dam safety regulations. Our maintenance
program for fly ash ponds and other impoundments remains
vigorous and is continuously monitored.
AEP is in the midst of a multiyear plan to address the
company’s use of coal ash disposal areas. Currently, AEP has
responsibility for 31 CCR ponds and landfills that fall under the
CCR Rule. We have posted a large number of documents,
including structural stability assessments, initial closure plans,
inspection reports and, most recently, groundwater monitoring
reports for all ponds and landfills covered by the CCR Rule on
our website.
In March 2018, EPA proposed revisions to the CCR rule in order to address provisions of the April 2015 final rule that were
remanded back to EPA and to provide States with approved CCR permit programs the ability to set certain alternative
performance standards. The final rule is expected in June 2019.
In March 2018, we met a major milestone of posting the first annual groundwater monitoring reports on our website for each CCR
pond and landfill. The primary focus of the reports is raw data based on background sampling completed in late 2017. The initial
data at most sites show potential groundwater impacts. One or more samples showing a higher concentration of a substance,
even above a standard, does not mean that there is any impact from the ash storage site or that local drinking water is unsafe.
In advance of report publication, we proactively reached out to plant neighbors and community leaders to answer questions about
the data collected and to discuss next steps. We will do additional sampling and analysis over the next year to determine if there
are groundwater impacts from our storage sites farther from the immediate area.
AEP is committed to handling coal ash disposal areas in a way that puts safety first while protecting the environment, minimizing
impacts to the communities and managing our customers’ costs. All of our reports and required documentation are available online
at our dedicated CCR Rule Compliance site.
Beneficial Reuse
CCRs have long been used in concrete, wallboard and a wide variety of construction materials. While this benefits other
industries, it also provides a source of financial and
We are continuing to take steps to reduce our water consumption, improve
water quality and address water availability issues as we comply with
current regulations and prepare for new ones.
environmental benefits to AEP. In February 2014, the EPA
completed a risk evaluation of the beneficial uses of coal fly ash
in concrete and flue gas desulfurization (FGD) gypsum in
wallboard and its conclusions will support these beneficial uses.
Currently, approximately 41 percent of the coal ash and other
residual products from AEP’s generating facilities are used in
the production of concrete and wallboard, as structural fill or soil
additives, as abrasives or road treatment materials and for
other beneficial uses. By diverting the coal ash to beneficial
uses, we are reducing the need for waste disposal sites.
In 2017, AEP generated approximately 6.2 million tons of
CCRs and was able to beneficially use more than 2.5 million
tons, or nearly 41 percent of the total produced. Beneficial use
of CCRs (considered to be products if they are beneficially
used) avoided approximately $36 million in disposal costs in
2017 and generated more than $8.8 million in revenues.
Waste Water Management
Under the authority of the Clean Water Act, the EPA
establishes wastewater discharge limits for new and existing
power plants that use steam to generate electricity from various
fuel sources (coal, oil, gas and nuclear). In November 2015, the agency revised these national effluent guidelines and set stricter
performance standards that must be achieved at AEP’s coal-fired steam electric generating facilities.
These new guidelines required that AEP install technologies to
eliminate the discharge of fly ash and bottom ash transport
waters and to further limit the discharge of pollutants from
wastewater treatment systems associated with flue gas
desulfurization (FGD) scrubbers. Upgrades and the installation
of additional wastewater treatment systems would be required
at most of AEP’s active coal-fueled facilities.
The rule was challenged in the U.S. Court of Appeals, and, in
March 2017, the electric industry filed a Petition for
Reconsideration of the rule with EPA. In April 2017, EPA
issued a stay of the rule’s compliance deadlines and granted
reconsideration of several aspects of the rule. In September
2017, EPA finalized a rulemaking that postponed the
compliance dates for FGD wastewater and bottom ash
transport water (BATW) discharges. The earliest compliance
date for these waste streams is now November 1, 2020, rather
than November 1, 2018. The agency also decided not to
postpone the compliance deadlines for fly ash transport water
discharges, which remain as soon as possible after November
1, 2018, but no later than December 31, 2023. EPA will initiate
a new rulemaking to address the FGD and BATW discharges,
which it expects to finalize in 2020. We continue to work with the
agency and utility industry groups to help secure reasonable
revisions to the guidelines.Water Conservation
Water is a critical input for producing electricity, as power plants use water to generate electricity, cool equipment, scrub flue gas
and transport combustion byproducts. Hydroelectric power is completely derived from the kinetic energy of flowing water. Our
barge fleet operates on several rivers and relies on consistent water levels to maintain operations, delivering fuel and other
supplies to our generating facilities.
As much as we need access to water, we also have a responsibility to manage this resource to mitigate our impacts as well as
reduce consumption where we can. As AEP continues to diversify its generating portfolio and retire coal generation capacity, our
use of water will continue to decrease.
Water quality, availability, use and management are increasingly important sustainability issues for society and our company. We
are continuing to take steps to reduce our water consumption, improve water quality and address water availability issues as we
comply with current regulations and prepare for new ones. Because this issue is so important to AEP, we are evaluating a new
sustainability goal to address our water consumption.
We have already significantly reduced our water footprint through plant retirements. Since 2013, we have reduced our water use
from 7,349 million gallons/day (MGD) to 4,915 MGD – a reduction of nearly 33 percent. During that same time period, we have
reduced our water consumption by almost 50 percent from 315 MGD to 158 MGD. The water that we use is generally returned to
the original water source after being withdrawn. Water consumption occurs when some of the water is lost to evaporation or a
water-consumptive process, such as flue gas scrubbing.
We participated in an industry research project to find new ways to treat wastewater and reduce the use and consumption of water
by power plants. In early 2017, the Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) completed assessments on water withdrawal and
consumption at three of AEP’s western plants: the Comanche Power Station, the Oklaunion Power Plant and the Pirkey Power
Plant. In these studies, EPRI assessed the sourcing of water, water availability in the region, and water conservation efforts by
AEP.
Overall, EPRI’s results were positive - highlighting various water conservation initiatives implemented by AEP, including a water
conservation opportunity between AEP and the City of Lawton. The AEP-owned Comanche Power Station is located in the City
of Lawton, Oklahoma, which lacks an adequate supply of local freshwater for the plant. The Comanche Station developed a
relationship with Lawton’s Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW), which provided reclaimed municipal wastewater for the
plant to use. Comanche opened in 1973 and has been using reclaimed municipal effluent for operations ever since, making it an
early adopter of alternative water supply practices. This exchange resulted in cost savings for AEP (compared to the cost of
securing regional surface water) and a source of revenue for the POTW for what was otherwise a wastewater discharge.
Because we place a high value on the importance of transparency, AEP reports on our usage and management of water
throughout our system extensively in different forums. One way we do this is through required reporting, such as the U.S. Energy
Information Administration, and through other voluntary reporting efforts. For example, we participate annually in the 
CDP Water
Survey
. The 2017 questionnaire was issued on behalf of 639 investors representing $69 trillion in assets who seek business-
critical information about water consumption and water use strategy and planning. In addition, AEP provides extensive water data
in our 
Global Reporting Initiative
 (GRI) report and EPRI Benchmarking Reports.
AEP also values and encourages water conservation and education efforts within our local communities. In October 2017, the
AEP Foundation awarded $300,000 in grants to the Voinovich School of Leadership and Public Affairs at Ohio University for
environmental programs, $50,000 of which was designated for a watershed education and research program. Funding for thisIn 2012, the Cook Plant began a program of loading spent nuclear fuel into
dry casks. Since the program began, a total of 28 dry casks have been
loaded into storage.
program will enhance a watershed education website for teachers, which will feature teachers’ lessons plans, 360-degree images
of streams and wetlands, and instructional videos on watersheds. While these resources are educational in nature, they are
intended to foster students’ awareness and appreciation of ecosystems, specifically with respect to the interconnectivity of
watersheds.
Waste and Chemical Management
We manage many types of waste resulting from the process of providing electricity, operating office buildings, and repairing and
replacing equipment. We continue to reduce and divert waste from landfills through beneficial reuse or recycling.
The amount of polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB)-containing equipment used across the company continues to decline. PCBs, which
are known to have adverse health effects, have not been used in new electrical equipment in the U.S. for more than 37 years but
are present in some of our older transformers and other pieces of electric equipment. We removed and recycled approximately
41,000 pieces of electrical equipment in 2017.
While we had 1,482 transmission and distribution equipment oil spills in 2017, similar to the number of spills in 2016, only one of
the spills in 2017 contained greater than 500 parts per million (ppm) PCBs. Most spills are caused by severe weather and public
vehicle accidents that damage the equipment. Regardless of the cause, we respond to each spill on an around-the-clock basis to
clean up the materials released, notify regulatory agencies where required, and restore areas to pre-spill conditions.
During 2017, the waste we recycled included approximately 512,500 pounds of paper and mixed office waste; 33.5 million pounds
of scrap metal; 37,000 pounds of light bulbs; 334,000 pounds of batteries; and more than 27,000 pounds of electronic equipment,
such as computers and phones. We also recycled about 423,600 gallons of used oil. These numbers are not all-inclusive but are
considered good estimates of waste management across AEP and indicate progress in reducing waste.
Nuclear Waste Management
The Department of Energy oversees permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel and historically has charged fees to plant owners for
this disposal. However, the government has stopped developing the Yucca Mountain storage facility in Nevada, leaving generators
with no place for permanent disposal.
Indiana Michigan Power owns and operates the two-unit
Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant in Michigan, with a generating
capacity of 2,278 MW of electricity. Like the rest of the nuclear
industry, we face a significant future financial commitment to
dispose of spent nuclear fuel. We need a national solution for
the long-term disposal of spent nuclear fuel, which should be
part of a national energy plan.
The uncertainty associated with long-term storage has placed
the burden of interim storage on each nuclear facility. AEP is
addressing this issue on the assumption that a workable off-site
solution will not exist before the current operating licenses for
both Cook units expire in 2034 and 2037.
In 2012, the Cook Plant began a program of loading spent
nuclear fuel into dry casks. Dry cask storage loading
campaigns are scheduled every three years. The casks (32
spent nuclear fuel assemblies contained within each dry cask)
are designed to withstand tornadoes, earthquakes, floods,
sabotage, missiles, aircraft and temperature extremes. They
are licensed by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and meet
all applicable security, environmental and radiological
requirements.
Without removal of the used-fuel assemblies, the spent fuel pool
would have reached capacity in 2014, forcing shutdown of one
or both Cook units. Since the program began, a total of 28 dry casks have been loaded into storage. The third dry cask loading of
an additional 16 casks is expected to occur in 2018. The current cask storage facility is designed to store 94 casks for a total of
3,008 spent nuclear fuel assemblies. This would support the operation of both units through the current operating license dates of
2034 for Unit 1 and 2037 for Unit 2. The pad could be expanded to facilitate removal of all fuel assemblies from the plant’s spent
fuel pool and full decommissioning of both units.
Nuclear plant operators are required to maintain a plant decommissioning trust fund to safely decommission and decontaminate
the plant upon closure. At the end of 2017, the trust fund balance for the Cook Plant was approximately $2.2 billion.AEP is participating in the development of a collaborative monarch butterfly
Candidate Conservation Agreement which will help support the rehabilitation
of the monarch butterfly’s population.
Wildlife Protection
As we build and maintain new and existing infrastructure across our service territory, such as transmission or renewable generation
facilities, we are mindful of the potential impacts we might have on wildlife species protected under the Endangered Species Act
(ESA), the Migratory Bird Treaty Act and the Bald Eagle and Golden Eagle Protection Act, and we take the necessary steps to
ensure their protection. For example, we periodically encounter habitats that may support rare or endangered species, such as the
American burying beetle and the Indiana bat.
AEP is currently working with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service (USFWS) on a Habitat Conservation Plan (HCP) for
the American burying beetle (ABB). This beetle is listed as
endangered and the HCP is a mechanism by which AEP can
comply with the ESA. The HCP deals with potential impacts
from our transmission and distribution operations, maintenance,
and construction activities over the next 30 years. The federal
permit associated with the HCP will help AEP continue to
operate efficiently to provide safe and reliable electricity to
meet the energy needs of our customers while assisting in the
conservation of the ABB and its habitat. 
We anticipate
receiving the permit from USFWS by the end of 2018.
Simultaneously, AEP is working with USFWS on a 30-year
system-wide, programmatic HCP dealing with about 15 other
species potentially affected by the Company’s transmission
construction activities, including the federally endangered
Indiana bat, whooping crane, red-cockaded woodpecker,
eastern massasauga rattlesnake, and rusty patched bumble
bee. This HCP is currently in the drafting stage and is expected
to bring predictability and efficiency to the consultation and
mitigation process with USFWS while providing tangible
benefits to the covered bat, bird, plant and other terrestrial
species in all eleven states in which AEP traditionally operates.
As the USFWS decides whether to list the monarch butterfly as a protected species under the ESA, AEP is working with
stakeholders to protect the monarch. A significant component of the ESA is the limitation that it places on activities within
designated critical habitat areas of listed species. Monarch butterflies, for example, rely on areas where milkweed plants are
available for migration, which significantly overlaps with AEP’s generation and transmission network.
In 2018, AEP is participating in the development of a collaborative monarch butterfly Candidate Conservation Agreement with
Assurances (CCAA), which brings together stakeholders to commit to proactive conservation measures throughout various
industries. CCAAs are administered by the USFWS. This action can support the rehabilitation of the monarch butterfly’s
population while also encouraging other enterprises such as electric, gas, and oil companies to follow our example through the
collaborative nature of this agreement.
AEP has also joined the EPRI Power in Pollinators Initiative, which seeks to address issues of concern regarding important
pollinator species, such as bees, beetles, butterflies and other insects. Pollinating insects are necessary to support production of
many of our food crops, such as apples, tomatoes and watermelon. Many of these insects are under stress and AEP is working
with EPRI and other electric utilities to find ways to support and protect pollinating insects, birds and other associated wildlife.
Avian Protection
For more than three decades, the utility industry, conservation groups, wildlife resource agencies and others have worked together
to understand why and how birds collide with or are electrocuted by power lines. This is a growing concern as construction of
transmission facilities and renewable energy facilities accelerates across the United States.
To reduce avian mortality, utilities have adopted voluntary company-specific Avian Protection Plans (APP) to mitigate the risks
associated with bird interactions with electric facilities. AEP’s APP was completed in 2013, and we continue the process of
implementation. The plan’s purpose is to reduce the incidences of bird electrocutions and collisions with AEP’s equipment, and to
reduce the frequency of bird-caused outages.
We are also taking avian protection into account as we design and engineer new facilities. For example, the design of the BOLD
transmission line is shorter in stature than traditional transmission lines and structures. Benefits of this design include reduced
nesting because of the curved arm, and reductions in both collisions and electrocutions, which are less likely with shorter
transmission towers.
AEP manages interactions between birds and power lines
®To reduce avian mortality, utilities have adopted voluntary company-specific
Avian Protection Plans to mitigate the risks associated with bird
interactions with electric facilities.
Retired AEP employee shows improvements to the original wildlife viewing
pavilion near SWEPCO Lake at the end of Eagle Watch Trail. The one-half
mile path takes visitors through forests and meadows.
through a system-wide program across our 11-state service
territory, where a wide variety of bird species can be found.
Currently, AEP’s primary challenge is on larger species that are
more likely to be electrocuted in substations and on poles or to
collide with towers and lines.
The APP has several key components:
Employee training and compliance
 – We educate our
employees and provide training on compliance with all
federal and state laws. Our goal is to be proactive in
preventing bird collisions and electrocutions.
Construction design standards and mortality
reduction measures
 – We have a process to
incorporate bird safety into the design of new lines and
facilities.
Nest management and avian enhancement options
– We apply bird-safety tactics such as installing a
dedicated de-energized pole for bird nesting or bird
diverters to keep them away from wires.
Avian reporting systems and risk assessment methodologies
 – We continue to improve our monitoring and
reporting capabilities to allow us to be more proactive.
Public education
 – We promote the need for migratory bird and habitat conservation and work cooperatively with
federal and state agencies and nonprofit organizations.
Conservation and Stewardship
AEP values and practices environmental stewardship and conservation across its service territory. Whether through reclaiming
outdoor recreation areas, such as nature trails and campsites, to integrating conservation measures into new and rebuilt
transmission lines, AEP takes steps to preserve our natural ecosystem, especially as we grow our business.
Through AEP’s ReCreation Land program, Ohio land that was once surface-mined for coal has been ecologically reclaimed as
outdoor recreation area for the public to enjoy. Throughout the history of this program, AEP has planted over 63 million trees,
created 380 campsites, and established 350 lakes and ponds stocked for fishing for an estimated 100,000 visitors each year. As
of February 2017, 58,800 acres have been reclaimed in Ohio through AEP’s efforts.
For many decades AEP has had a cooperative agreement with
the Ohio Department of Natural Resources, allowing citizens to
use the ReCreation land for public use. With the electric market
deregulation in Ohio and the reduction of coal mining in this
area, AEP no longer has a future business need for this land. In
2017, we entered into an agreement with the state of Ohio that
allows the state to begin purchasing some of the land so that
the public can continue to enjoy this area for generations to
come. Initially, the state is purchasing more than 13,000 acres
to create a new state park that will be known as the Jesse
Owens State Park and Wildlife Area.
Southwestern Electric Power Company’s (SWEPCO) Flint
Creek Power Plant in northwest Arkansas has been the home
to the Eagle Watch Nature Trail for almost 20 years. The year-
round warm water in the coal-fueled power plant’s reservoir,
SWEPCO Lake, attracts wintering American bald eagles. A
new wildlife viewing pavilion serves as a “blind” for
photographers, bird watchers and others to enjoy part of the
lake frequented by eagles and many other birds and wildlife.
The trail was built in 1999 as a stewardship effort of the power
company. It has received national awards, including citations
from the Wildlife Habitat Council and Corporate Lands for
Learning. The trail has been named a “pollinator friendly site” byAEP employees at the Conesville Plant in Coshocton, Ohio, host an Earth
Day event where approximately 800 local fifth and sixth graders got hands-
on lessons on nature, wildlife and the environment.
the Wildlife Habitat Council.
Each year, employees at the Conesville Plant in Coshocton,
Ohio, host an Earth Day event. In 2017, approximately 800
local fifth and sixth graders got hands-on lessons on nature,
wildlife, the environment and a variety of other science fields.
The students had more than 20 stations to visit during the day,
including one on the fish of Ohio, which was provided by Ohio
EPA Division of Surface Water employees. AEP employees
also helped teach students about what they do at the plant and
what can happen if you aren’t careful around power lines. It’s
another way we are reaching out to our communities about
electrical safety in the public.
Some conservation measures are required as part of our
infrastructure projects, which may include wetland or stream
mitigation as part of a U.S. Army Corps of Engineers permit.
Similarly, the establishment of conservation easements for
habitat protection may be required by the Corps or a state
permitting authority. AEP’s voluntary activities go above and
beyond what is required to meet regulatory standards and
include donations to wildlife organizations or school groups or
other charitable contributions, which could include funding,
services or in-kind commitments made by employee volunteers
in support of conservation work.
Another example of a voluntary environmental project is work
related to the restoration of an AEP 138-kV transmission line
through a portion of the Pleasant Valley Wildlife Area, which is managed by the Ohio Department of Natural Resources (ODNR).
Normally, the agency would prescribe a seed mix to be used in restoring any damaged vegetation. In this case, AEP proposed a
pilot project to test the feasibility of substituting the prescribed mix with a mix that would be of benefit to pollinators. The pollinator
mix was developed in collaboration with the Ohio Pollinator Habitat Initiative, ODNR and Pheasants Forever. This seed mix
includes native species that are compatible with existing vegetation in the area and will improve the habitat by providing tall
grasses as well as pollinator-attracting flowers. The development of the pollinator plots will be an improvement over the existing
vegetation and will provide a greater diversity of plants when compared to the recommended ODNR vegetation.
A final example is the voluntary improvement of abandoned mine lands in the vicinity of the Conesville Plant in Coshocton County,
Ohio. These old surface mines, whose former operators are long gone, pre-date today’s mandatory reclamation standards. The
goal of the reclamation is to eliminate hazardous highwalls, abate acid mine drainage, restore the subject landscape to its
approximate original contours, and reforest the reclaimed areas with vegetation native to the region. The project is a partnership
between AEP, Ohio Department of Natural Resources, Ohio State University and the Ohio Coal Development Office.AEP’s Sustainability Goals for the
Future
In 2016, we chartered a strategic initiative to develop AEP’s next-
generation sustainability goals. The objective was to measure how we
create shared value – for AEP and our stakeholders – through our
investments in sustainable development of clean energy infrastructure.
These sustainability goals reflect our commitment to the environment;
efficient use of energy; safety, health and well-being of our workforce and
the public; supplier diversity; community building; the customer
experience; and economic development. 
The goals are aligned with our
corporate strategy and business initiatives, so that we will create shared
value for AEP and our communities. Our progress will be reported on
annually. In addition, we are 
mapping our sustainability goals
 to the
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
.
Energy and Environment
The power grid of the future will be
cleaner, smarter, digitized, more
efficient and fully integrated. The
efficient use of energy, our investments
in modern, responsive infrastructure,
advanced technology innovation and
customer adoption, and the
diversification of resources will enable
AEP’s transition to a cleaner energy
future, while protecting the reliability
and resilience of the system and
reducing our environmental impacts.
Reduce carbon dioxide
Social Responsibility
At AEP, we consider the safety, health
and well-being of our employees,
contractors and the public to be a core
value, which means doing the right
thing every time. As corporate citizens,
we have an obligation to address
social issues to enhance the quality of
life in the communities that we serve,
and beyond. We envision a culture
where diversity is the norm and
employees, customers, supplies and
stakeholders of all identities are
valued, respected and engaged.
Achieve Zero Harm –
everyone goes home in the
Economic Development
AEP is committed to supporting
economic development and making
smart infrastructure investments that
power our communities and improve
lives by attracting high-quality jobs,
encouraging capital investment, and
stimulating local economies. We
incorporate customer perceptions,
behaviors and values into the design
of our energy solutions and services to
ensure the best experience for our
residential, commercial and industrial
customers.
AEP's
Sustainability
Goals for
the Future
Reduce Carbon
Emissions
Achieve Zero Harm
Promote Customer
Focusemissions from AEP
generating units by 60
percent from 2000 levels by
2030; reduce carbon dioxide
emissions from AEP
generating units by 80
percent from 2000 levels by
2050.
By 2030, grow regulated
renewables on the AEP
system by approximately
8,000 MW (per integrated
resource plans and pending
regulatory approval), and
continue expansion of
competitive, contracted
renewables.
Continued investments in
grid modernization to ensure
reliability, resilience and
security of the power system
to meet our customers’
needs and future energy
requirements.
Use new and innovative
business models (regulated
and competitive businesses)
and create energy solutions
and services that improve
how we manage the grid’s
total value stream and
deliver an exceptional
customer experience.
same or better condition
than when they came to work
– through forward-looking
safety initiatives that assess
both leading and lagging
indicators for risks and
opportunities.
Increase public awareness
about how to stay safe
around AEP energy systems
and facilities, and build
strong and effective
partnerships to help protect
the public.
The engagement of AEP
employees in company-led
or –supported volunteer
activities helps to enhance
quality of life, advance and
expand access to education
opportunities, and create
shared social and economic
benefits for our customers
and communities.
Quantify the impact of AEP
philanthropic giving to
address STEM education
and hunger and housing.
Build a diverse, high-
performing workforce that
reflects the communities we
serve. Eliminate barriers that
prevent employees from
maximizing opportunities and
potential.
Cultivate a collaborative and
Through technology-enabled
innovation and process
improvements, we make it
easier and more cost-
effective for customers to
interact with us and give
them access to personalized
energy solutions and
services to help them better
manage their energy use.
We strive to improve the
communities we serve by
helping to create
employment opportunities
that enhance the quality of
life in and sustainability of
our communities.
Increase Renewable
Energy
Modernize the Grid
Energy Innovation
Increase Public Safety
Engage Employees
Through Volunteerism
Measure the Impact of
AEP’s Philanthropic
Investments
Support Diversity and
Inclusion
Create an Inclusive,
Engaged, and High-
Performing Workforce
Achieve Economic
Impactinclusive work environment
that empowers employees
and provides opportunities
for advancement.
By 2023, the level of spend
with diverse suppliers
achieves 10 percent,
providing competitive access
to a pool of diverse, strategic
suppliers and business
partners that mirror the
communities we serve.
Increase Supplier
Diversity© 2018 American Electric Power.