A heritage built on service and 
sustained by innovationThe Powerful 
Backing™ of 
American Express
2017-2018 Corporate  
Social Responsibility ReportResponsible 
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
2
Table of Contents
Introduction
3 CEO letter
4 About American Express
6 About this report
How We Approach Corporate  
Social Responsibility
8 Introduction
9 Engaging with our stakeholders
10 Identifying key environmental,  
social, and governmental (ESG)  
issues
11 American Express and the  
United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals
12 Our Commitments and  
2017 Highlights
14 Our CSR governance structure
Promoting Responsible  
Business Practices 
16 Introduction
17 Business ethics
20 Board of Directors and corporate  
governance framework
21 Risk management and security
23 Advocacy and membership in key 
organizations
Serving Our Colleagues
25 Introduction
26 Our Global Diversity and 
Inclusion strategy
29 Providing learning and development
31 Valuing and supporting our people
34 Supporting colleague recognition  
and engagementDelivering for Our Customers  
and Partners
36 Introduction
38 Putting the customer first 
41 Building a safe and secure network
43 Empowering entrepreneurs
45 Supporting women-owned business
Caring for Our Communities
47 Introduction
48 Charitable giving
49 Serving communities
53 Developing leaders
55 Preserving places
Managing Our Operations
57 Introduction
58 Reducing our carbon emissions
60 Investing in sustainable workplaces
62 Commitment to sustainable 
products, responsible sourcing, and 
supplier diversity
65 Managing our environmental 
performance
66 Endnotes
68 Assurance statement
71 GRI Content IndexCorporate Social  
Responsibility  
Report  
2017–2018 Responsible 
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
3
A heritage built on  
service and sustained  
by innovation.
We're a global services 
company that provides 
customers with access 
to products, insights, 
and experiences that 
enrich lives and build 
business success.CEO Letter
At American Express, the powerful backing we provide our customers is at the heart  
of our brand promise. Our service ethos has been central to who we are since our founding 
in 1850, and it extends beyond our customers to include the way we treat our colleagues, 
the communities in which we live and work, and the planet we all call home. In conducting 
our business around the world, we work hard to be environmentally conscious, socially 
responsible, a compassionate employer, and, most of all, a company that people can trust  
to do what’s right.
With these principles in mind, I’m pleased to share with you our 2017-2018 Corporate  
Social Responsibility (CSR) Report. This report provides an update on the progress we have 
made in 2017 to strengthen the backing we provide to all of our constituents.  
Key accomplishments include:
Being rated as one of Ponemon’s Most  
T rusted Companies for Privacy for the  
past 10 years.
Expanding paid parental leave to 20  
weeks for all U.S.-based employees,  
supporting both mothers and fathers  
embarking on their family’s next  
chapter.
Celebrating Small Business Saturday’s  
eighth year, a day we created to support  
local businesses that helps create  
jobs, boost the economy, and preserve  
neighborhoods.
Reducing our carbon footprint for scope 1 
and 2 emissions by 50 percent compared 
to 2011. Contributing $37 million in charitable  
giving, strengthening our communities  
with more than 400 grants and  
supporting over 5,000 colleague-selected  
organizations through our company’s  
gift matching program.
Providing $3.5 million in grants through 
our Center for Community Development, 
which went to 129 nonprofit community 
partners in support of programs 
addressing homelessness and affordable 
housing, financial literacy, healthcare, 
economic development, and rural 
revitalization efforts.
Committing to limiting single-use plastic  
in our operations and redesigning existing  
materials and plastic products by working  
in partnership with Parley for Oceans.
Throughout my 32 years at the company, I have been honored to work with people who have  
a deep passion for service, a commitment to integrity, and endless creativity and resilience.  
We are proud of the success we have had to date in meeting a number of our CSR goals, and  
we are committed to doing still more to protect our planet and enrich the lives of all of our  
constituents, today and for future generations.
I’m confident that, by working together, we will keep up the momentum we’ve worked hard to  
gain and in doing so, reach new heights.
Sincerely,
Responsible 
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
4
OUR MISSION AND VISION
Our vision is to provide the world’s best customer experience every day.
Our mission is to become essential to our customers by providing differentiated 
products and services to help them achieve their aspirations.
WE’RE BUILT ON RELATIONSHIPS
Developing enduring relationships is key to our business and essential to our brand. 
In every interaction and in everything we do, our goal is to provide the world’s best 
customer experience. 
Our service is built on a foundation of trust. Our customers trust us to deliver on our 
promises and make things right if we fall short. They know we’ve got their backs, and 
they pay us back with their loyalty.
A BRAND THAT MATTERS
Our brand reflects the way we’ve done business since our beginnings in 1850. 
We process millions of transactions daily, providing products and services to customers 
around the world and driving more than $1 trillion in commerce each year. Our unique 
business model depends on the exceptional talent, innovative ideas, and dedicated expertise 
of our colleagues, along with data-driven insights and unparalleled service. These are the 
strengths that set us apart.
DIVERSE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
We are a globally integrated payments company with a diverse product set and a large, global  
customer base. The products, services, programs, and tools we offer help enrich lives, grow  
and manage businesses, and drive commerce. They include:
Charge and credit cards and other 
payment and financing products.
Merchant acquisition and processing, 
servicing and settlement, and point-
of-sale marketing and information 
products and services for merchants.
Network services.Other fee services, including fraud 
prevention services, and the design and 
operation of customer loyalty programs.
Expense management products and 
services. 
T ravel-related services.
Stored value/prepaid products.Company profile
OUR STRATEGY  
AND MISSION 
Two years ago, we  
set out to transform 
our business in the 
face of renewed 
competition, a 
shifting regulatory 
environment, 
and disruptive 
technological change. 
We revamped our 
vision and mission, 
and expanded 
products, services, 
and benefits for both 
individual consumers 
and businesses. About American ExpressResponsible 
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
5
Since 2004, we have 
been a constituent 
of the FTSE4Good 
Index Series. Created 
by the global index 
provider FTSE Russell, 
the FTSE4Good 
Index Series is 
designed to measure 
the performance 
of companies 
demonstrating strong 
ESG practices.Our Four 
Opportunities
When our customers 
thrive, so do we. That 
understanding is at the  
heart of how we build  
long-term relationships in 
an increasingly short-term, 
transactional world. Our 
success has always, and 
will always, come from our 
commitment to putting 
our customers’ needs first. 
In today’s ever-changing 
environment, we see four 
opportunities to help us 
drive the next level of 
innovation, service,  
and growth across our 
business.
2017 Facts
(as of December 31, 2017)
NYC   
Headquarters112  
MILLION   
cards in force$181  
BILLION  
total assets
120  
issuing and acquiring 
partners 
in approximately
130 
countries  
and territories55,000   
EMPLOYEES#86   
Fortune 500$1.1 
TRILLION  
worldwide  
billed business
#17  
Fortune 
World’s most  
admired companies $2.7
BILLION   
of net income
(or $5.3 billion   
excluding the U.S. T ax Cuts 
and Jobs Act  
Impact of $2.6 billion )About American Express
People are living and working more globally than ever 
before. Our brand experience needs to be consistent no matter 
where our customers are around the world.
Business and personal lives are rapidly becoming more 
deeply intertwined. We need to deliver products and services 
that acknowledge the new work-life reality.
Our customers lean forward in life and business,  
determined to find meaning and reflect their sense  
of purpose.  We need to continually show we know them  
better than any other brand.
When our customers thrive, so do we. We are focused on 
building on long-term relationships, based on transparency, 
proactivity, and putting their needs before our own.Responsible 
Business PracticesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
6
This report covers calendar year 2017 and provides qualitative  
and quantitative information on our approach to managing our  
environmental, social, and governance (ESG) issues. Several  
initiatives or targets that were launched during early 2018 are  
included in the report since they may be relevant and provide  
more up-to-date information for our stakeholders.
When we use the terms  
“American Express, ” the “company, ” 
“we, ” “us, ” or  “our” in this report, 
we mean American Express 
Company and its subsidiaries, on a 
consolidated basis, unless we state, 
or the context implies, otherwise.
REPORTING GUIDELINES 
AND CONTENT
During the development of this report, 
we consulted with internal stakeholders 
and conducted a sector benchmark to 
confirm that the results of the priority 
assessment we conducted in 2015  
were still an accurate reflection of 
significant ESG issues for the company 
and our key stakeholders. Where 
appropriate, updates were made to 
reflect the changes.
The results of this assessment and its 
updates are described in this report 
and informed the development and 
content of this report together with 
the Global Reporting Initiative's (GRI) 
standard guidelines, leading to the 
structure of the report around the 
following Spheres of Service:
Promoting responsible business 
practices
Serving our colleagues
Delivering for our customers and 
partners 
Caring for our communities 
Managing our operations   
responsiblyA GRI Standard Index showing the  
indicators that have been reported on  
can be found in the Appendix of this  
report.
We report on ESG issues annually on  
the American Express Corporate Social 
Responsibility website. Additional 
information can be found through 
submissions to the CDP (formerly 
Carbon Disclosure Project) and in 
our annual, quarterly, and current 
reports and other information on file 
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission and available on the 
American Express Investor Relations 
website. Links and references included  
throughout the report provide  
information on where to find additional  
information and are not considered  
part of the report.
Y ou may also request a copy of these  
documents by writing to us at the  
following address:
American Express Company  
200 Vesey Street  
New Y ork, New Y ork 10285  
Attention: Corporate Secretary
This report contains forward-looking  
statements within the meaning of the  
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act 
of 1995 that are subject to risks and  
uncertainties. Y ou can identify forward-
looking statements by words such 
as “believe, ” “expect, ” “anticipate, ” 
“intend, ”“plan, ” “aim, ” "will, ” “may, ” 
“should, ”“could, ” “would, ” “likely, ” 
“estimate, ”“predict, ” “potential, ” “continue” or similar expressions. 
Actual results may differ from those 
set forth in the forward-looking 
statements due to a variety of factors, 
including those contained in the 
company’s Annual Report on Form 
10-K for the year ended December 31, 
2017 and the company’s other filings 
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission. Y ou are cautioned not to 
place undue reliance on these forward-
looking statements, which speak 
only as of the date on which they are 
made. We undertake no obligation to 
update or revise any forward-looking 
statements. 
This report includes trademarks, such 
as American Express®, which are 
protected under applicable intellectual 
property laws and are the property 
of American Express Company or its 
subsidiaries. Solely for convenience, 
our trademarks and trade names 
referred to in this report may appear 
without the ® or TM symbols, but such 
references are not intended to indicate, 
in any way, that we will not assert,  
to the fullest extent under applicable 
law, our rights or the right of 
the applicable licensor to these 
trademarks and trade names.
Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. 
(BVNA) was engaged to conduct 
an independent verification of the 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
reported by American Express for the 
calendar year 2017 . The Verification 
Statement and the scope of work is 
included on pages 68- 70.
All endnotes throughout this report 
can be found on page 66 .About this reportColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction Responsible 
Business Practices
7
HOW WE  
APPROACH 
CORPORATE 
SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY 
Our approach to CSR is a natural extension of both 
our mission — to become essential to our customers 
by providing differentiated products and services 
to help them achieve their aspirations — and our 
commitment to doing what is right.
8 Introduction
9 Engaging with our stakeholders
10 Identifying key environmental, social, 
and governmental (ESG) issues
11 American Express and the United 
Nations Sustainable Development Goals
12 Our Commitments and 2017 Highlights
14 Our CSR governance structureColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction Responsible 
Business Practices
8
We deliver value for both our 
business and our communities 
by investing financial and 
human resources in ways 
that address the social, 
environmental, and economic 
needs of our communities, 
customers, colleagues, 
shareholders, and partners.
We view service through many lenses:
Deli vering exceptional products, 
services, and experiences
Enabling commerce and helping 
businesses grow
Promoting a culture of respect—one 
that fosters inclusion and trust
Upholding the highest standard 
of integrity
Safeguarding our customers’ privacy 
and data
Making a difference in the 
communities where we work and live
Helping preser ve treasures of the past 
for future generations to enjoy
All of this is underscored by disciplined 
risk management that ensures we are 
building a company that will endure as  
a place people want to work for, invest 
in, and do business with.How We Approach Corporate  
Social Responsibility
The powerful backing of American Express
Managing Our  
Operations Responsibly 
We recognize our 
responsibility to help 
preserve natural resources 
for future generations and 
support ethical business 
practices around the globe.
Caring For Our 
Communities 
We aim to make 
a difference by 
strengthening the 
communities in  
which we work  
and live.
Delivering for Our 
Customers And Partners 
We use our relationships, 
technology, and data  
to better serve our 
customers and increase 
commerce opportunities  
for our partners.
Serving Our Colleagues 
We aim to inspire a 
culture where differences 
are embraced and 
colleagues are enabled  
to reach their full 
potential.
Promoting Responsible 
Business Practices 
We hold ourselves to  
the highest standards  
of integrity. 
Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction Responsible 
Business Practices9
HOW WE APPROACH CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Engaging with our stakeholders 
Stakeholder Group How We Engage
Shareholders and 
socially responsible 
investorsWe provide the investment community with information about 
the company’s strategy, objectives, and performance on the 
American Express Investor Relations  website. 
Colleagues We keep colleagues informed about company news, priorities, 
performance, and business strategies through a variety of channels, 
including digital and face-to-face communications. Leaders also 
collect regular feedback through the company’s annual employee 
survey, The Pulse; regular town hall meetings; employee networks; 
and our Amex Ethics Hotline. 
Customers: Card 
Members, businesses,  
and merchantsWe have direct relationships with millions of Card Members, 
businesses, and merchants, actively working to engage with them 
through superior customer service, direct-to-customer channels, and 
social media. 
Government  
and regulatorsWe advocate for public policy issues that are significant to our 
business and our ability to serve our customers by providing 
education and context to key decision-makers in government, civil 
society, and industry peers.
Suppliers We develop and support best practices in global supply management 
to support inclusion and ensure the integrity of our third-party 
relationships. 
Community and 
Non-Governmental 
Organizations (NGOs)We mobilize thousands of employee volunteers through our 
Serve2Gether program and offer incentives for our colleagues to 
support their favorite nonprofits through our Give2Gether and gift 
matching programs. We support and collaborate with nonprofits that 
preserve and sustain unique historic places for future generations. 
We also help to develop the nonprofit and social purpose leaders 
of tomorrow and encourage community service through grants, 
conferences, and meetings.
Sustainability  
research firmsWe respond to CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) and other 
ESG surveys from rating firms including Sustainalytics, EcoVadis, and 
MSCI.
Other financial 
institutionsWe engage through industry groups, roundtables, conferences, and 
benchmarking activities to address local and global CSR issues that 
affect the financial sector. We also collaborate in other forums where 
appropriate – for example, we share knowledge of online threats to 
our industry in cybersecurity forums.Our strategy begins  
by identifying our  
key stakeholders,  
then engaging with 
them to understand 
the ESG issues that 
matter to them,  
and the impact 
those issues have  
on our business.
We have identified eight  
key stakeholder groups, 
based on their impact  
on our business activities  
and our established 
processes for regular 
engagement with them.  
Our continued 
engagement with these 
stakeholders helps 
ensure we are meeting 
their expectations and 
advancing our efforts to 
operate responsibly. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction Responsible 
Business Practices10
HOW WE APPROACH CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
During the 2015 reporting year, we 
conducted a priority assessment 
in line with the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) guidelines.  We 
identified the significant ESG issues for 
our company and our key stakeholders, 
creating a priority matrix. As we 
developed the 2017/2018 CSR Report, 
we consulted with internal stakeholders 
and conducted a sector benchmark, 
using our findings to update the results 
of the 2015 priority assessment. 
Specifically, we: 
1  Validated the results of the priority 
matrix to re-prioritize key issues 
based on global reporting guidelines, 
sector benchmarking, relevant 
regulations, criteria from various indices 
and rankings, and other sources.
2 Consulted with a number of 
internal stakeholders and 
prioritized the issues, mapping them 
onto a revised matrix. 
3 Used the results of our priority 
assessment to guide our CSR 
disclosure and to update how we present 
our issues in relation to the SDGs and 
our five Spheres of Service (Promoting 
responsible business practices, Serving 
our colleagues, Delivering for our 
customers and partners, Caring for 
our communities, and Managing our 
operations responsibly).
Among other things, this exercise 
helped us validate the growing 
importance of Diversity & Inclusion 
and Equal Opportunity efforts for our 
stakeholders. See the Serving Our 
Colleagues section ( page 25 ) of this 
report for more information about how 
we are emphasizing this issue within the 
company, and Managing Our Operations 
Responsibly ( page 57 ) for how we are 
emphasizing it with suppliers.Identifying key environmental,  
social, and governmental (ESG) issues
OUR 2017 PRIORITY ISSUES
   PROMOTING RESPONSIBLE 
BUSINESS PRACTICES
Regulatory compliance:  Our programs 
to ensure we are complying with 
applicable laws and regulations within 
the countries and regions in which  
we operate.
Data privacy and security:  Our  
efforts to decrease the risk of fraud  
and protect our customers’ data.
Business ethics:  Our values, principles, 
standards, and norms, as well as 
programs to advise colleagues on 
ethical and lawful behavior, and 
reporting mechanisms for incidents of 
non-compliance. 
  SERVING  
OUR COLLEAGUES
Talent attraction and retention:  
Our employee policies and benefits, 
such as parental leave and 
development opportunities, among 
others.
Diversity and inclusion and equal 
opportunity:  Our efforts to ensure 
that our employee base has adequate 
representation and that the issue  
of gender pay equity is being 
addressed.
  DELIVERING FOR  
OUR CUSTOMERS AND 
PARTNERS
Customer service and relationship:  
Our strategy and programs in place 
to ensure best-in-class customer 
service, strong results from customer 
satisfaction surveys, and/or outreach 
mechanisms, and recognition via 
customer service awards.Responsible lending and marketing:  
Our programs and policies that ensure 
fairness in our customer practices, as 
well as efforts to provide customers 
with financial education and insights 
related to our products and services.
Environmental and social 
product innovation:  Products and 
services designed to have positive 
environmental and/or social impacts.
Responsible finance:  Our strategy 
and efforts to engage and educate 
our customers, colleagues, and the 
community in managing financial 
resources.
   CARING FOR OUR 
COMMUNITIES
Colleague volunteerism:  Our programs 
aimed at motivating and enabling our 
colleagues to serve community needs 
through volunteerism.
Strategic philanthropy:  Our strategy 
for donating and grant-making to 
charitable and  nonprofit organizations.
   MANAGING OUR 
OPERATIONS RESPONSIBLY
Physical climate change risks:  Our 
programs and policies aimed at 
addressing the physical risks from 
the effects of climate change on 
organizational assets (e.g., real property).
Responsible sourcing:  Our programs 
and policies to regularly assess 
suppliers for environmental and social 
risks present in their products and 
supply chains.
Energy use and GHG emissions:  
Efforts to reduce our greenhouse 
(GHG) emissions and increase fuel 
efficiency, renewable energy adoption, 
and green building certification for the 
assets under operational control.Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction Responsible 
Business Practices11
HOW WE APPROACH CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
American Express and the United Nations  
Sustainable Development Goals
The SDGs consist of 17 goals and 169  
targets geared toward solving the world’s 
most pressing problems, including  
ending poverty, achieving gender equality, 
reducing inequality, taking action on  
climate change, achieving food security, 
protecting the planet, and ensuring 
sustainable prosperity for all.  Following 
the adoption of the goals, state and local 
governments, NGOs, private sector, and 
citizens alike have committed to working 
together in partnership to achieve the 
outlined targets and ensure we leave a  
better planet for future generations. 
This year, we mapped the SDG targets to  
our business initiatives and programs.Based on this analysis, we focused on six 
goals. We believe our work is most aligned 
with SDG 3 (Ensure Healthy Lives and 
Promote Well-being for All at All Ages), SDG 
5 (Gender Equality), SDG 8 (Decent Work 
and Economic Growth), SDG 11 (Sustainable 
Cities and Communities), SDG 13 (Climate 
Action), and SDG 17 (Partnerships for the 
Goals).
We believe that by giving businesses and 
customers access to financing, securing 
payments among a globally connected 
network of merchants and customers, 
supporting small business growth, and 
investing in communities around the world, 
we will contribute to the success of these  
six SDGs. The United Nations 
Sustainable 
Development Goals 
(SDGs) , launched in 
January 2016, are 
intended to frame 
the agendas and 
political policies of 
U.N. member states 
over the next 15 years.  
American Express has identified the 
following six Global Goals as aligning with 
its initiatives and programs:
 3  GOOD HEALTH AND WELL -BEING 
 5  GENDER EQUALITY
 8  DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH
 11  SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES  
 13  CLIMATE ACTION
 17  PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALSColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction Responsible 
Business Practices12
HOW WE APPROACH CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
 
OUR COMMITMENTS AND 2017 HIGHLIGHTS
We have 
identified the 
following six 
Global Goals as 
aligning with  
our initiatives 
and programs.
 3  GOOD HEALTH AND 
WELL -BEING 
 5  GENDER EQUALITY
 8  DECENT WORK 
AND ECONOMIC 
GROWTH
11  SUSTAINABLE 
CITIES AND 
COMMUNITIES  
 13 CLIMATE ACTION
 17  PARTNERSHIPS FOR 
THE GOALSPROMOTING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES   
 Maintain the highest standards of ethics 
and integrity
Each colleague is personally 
accountable for fulfilling our company’s 
mission. Our colleagues receive 
Global Regulatory Learning Enterprise 
Essential T raining to ensure they have an 
understanding of the important policies, 
laws, and regulations that govern our 
industry, guide our company, and protect our colleagues, customers, and brand. The 
learning requirements cover areas such 
as our Code of Conduct, customer privacy 
and data security, anti-discrimination, fair 
lending, and anti-money laundering.  
The Amex Ethics Hotline  provides a 
24/7 channel in over 200 languages for 
colleagues, contractors, vendors, and 
suppliers to raise ethical or compliance 
concerns.
SERVING OUR COLLEAGUES : SDG s 3, 5, 8
Foster a diverse and inclusive culture
87 percent of colleagues  who 
responded to our annual survey said they 
would recommend our company as a 
great place to work. This is an increase 
of two percentage points from 2016.
Since 2004, we have scored 100 percent 
on the Human Rights Campaign’s 
Corporate Equality Index, based on 
our policies and practices that support 
LGBTQ inclusion.
We were named to Bloomberg’s 
Financial Services Gender-Equality 
Index, based on our efforts to create 
a work environment that supports 
gender equality.Support our colleagues’ 
professional and personal goals
96 percent of our colleagues  have 
access to at least one Healthy Living 
program or service.
We expanded paid parental leave  
to 20 weeks for male and female 
U.S.-based regular full-time and part-
time salaried employees.
More than 70 percent of our 
colleagues participated in  either 
a personal or a professional 
development experience  through 
trainings we offer .
43% of U.S. colleagues had a 
flexible work arrangement.
DELIVERING FOR OUR CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS: SDG 8
Meet the evolving needs of our 
customer base
We have been rated as one of Ponemon’s 
Most Trusted Companies for Privacy for 
the past 10 years.
Customer satisfaction with our service 
has increased  19 percent since 2011 
based on Card Member feedback.
We launched the sixth annual Pride 
campaign to celebrate LGBTQ, Card 
Members, merchants, colleagues, and 
local communities.
Support small businesses across the world
An estimated four-in-ten  (43 percent) 
American adults shopped or dined 
small  on Small Business Saturday.1Make our products and services better 
for society
From 2010 to 2017 , U.S. Card 
Members donated over $89 million 
through our Members GiveSM 
program, by either donating dollars 
on their American Express Cards or 
redeeming Membership Rewards 
points to benefit charitable causes.
We announced SafeKey® 2.0,  the next 
generation of our online authentication 
tool that leverages the EMV® 3-D 
Secure 2.0 industry standard industry 
standard and  provides an extra layer  of 
security when an American Express 
Card Member makes a purchase 
online at a participating merchant.Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction Responsible 
Business Practices13
HOW WE APPROACH CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
OUR COMMITMENTS AND 2017 HIGHLIGHTS
CARING FOR OUR COMMUNITIES: SDG s 11, 17
Strengthen the communities in 
which we operate    
We contributed $37 million to 
communities around the world with 
more than 400 grants and support 
for over 5,000 colleague-chosen 
organizations through the company’s 
gift matching program.
Our Center for Community 
Development provided $3.5 million 
in grants which went to 129 nonprofit 
community partners in support of 
programs addressing homelessness 
and affordable housing, financial 
literacy, healthcare, economic 
development, and rural 
revitalization efforts.Engage citizen volunteers
Our grants supported more than 
85 nonprofits that engaged nearly 
six million volunteers in about 25 
million hours of service.
Empower emerging nonprofit 
and social leaders
Our grants helped develop nearly 
20,000 nonprofit and social 
sector leaders through online and 
in-person leadership training.
Promote stewardship of 
historic places
Our grants helped preserve 40 
historic sites in seven countries: 
the U.S., U.K., Argentina, Mexico, 
Canada, France, and China.
MANAGING OUR OPERATIONS RESPONSIBLY: SDG s 13, 17
Reduce our environmental footprint  
Since 2011, we have reduced our 
carbon footprint for scope 1 and 
2 emissions by 50 percent .2
Since 2011, we have reduced 
our energy consumption by 
24 percent through energy 
efficiency projects and real estate 
space optimization.3
We achieved carbon neutrality 
for our employee business travel 
emissions (third party air, rail, and 
rental cars) through carbon offsets. 
Over 45 percent of our global 
real estate footprint was green-
building certified.4
We purchased over 160,000 MWH 
of renewable energy certificates 
(RECs), and achieved 100 percent 
carbon free electricity for U.S. 
data centers and our global 
headquarters. Commit to responsible sourcing 
and product
 Of the paper used in our U.S. 
direct marketing efforts in 2017 , 98 
percent was certified as being 
from sustainably managed forests.
Engage our colleagues 
in sustainability
More than 20,000 colleagues 
participated in our Earth Month 
activities.
We provided over $3.9 million in 
support of the environment and 
wildlife through the gift matching 
and Serve2Gether grant programs.Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction Responsible 
Business Practices14
HOW WE APPROACH CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Our CSR governance structure
Our executive management holds ultimate responsibility for our CSR progress and 
success; these leaders review and evaluate ESG key performance indicators and 
long-term goals within their business units. At the Board of Directors level, the Public 
Responsibility Committee reviews our CSR program, monitors progress against our goals, 
and provides guidance on our efforts. Day-to-day, our CSR team works with colleagues 
throughout American Express to shape our efforts and monitor progress on key ESG issues.
Additional information on Corporate Governance at American Express can be found in 
our 2018 Proxy Statement on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and 
available on the American Express Investor Relations website .Our Approach
 Responsible 
Business PracticesColleagues Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction
15
PROMOTING 
RESPONSIBLE 
BUSINESS 
PRACTICES
We hold ourselves to  
the highest standards  
of integrity. 
16 Introduction
17 Business ethics
20 Board of Directors and corporate  
governance framework
21 Risk management and security
23 Advocacy and membership in key 
organizationsOur Approach
 Responsible 
Business PracticesColleagues Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction
16
Promoting Responsible  
Business Practices
American Express is the 
world’s largest card issuer 
by purchase volume – 
we process millions of 
transactions, driving 
more than $1 trillion in 
commerce annually. 
Our 55,000 global employees  
(or “colleagues”) strive to have  
our customers' backs every day  
and make each customer 
interaction a positive, secure, and 
convenient experience. We hold 
ourselves to the highest standards 
of ethics and integrity and have 
built corporate citizenship into  
the heart of our company. 2017 key commitments and highlights
  Maintain the highest standards  
of ethics and integrity
Each colleague is personally 
accountable  for fulfilling our 
company’s mission. Our colleagues 
receive Global Regulatory Learning 
Enterprise Essential T raining to 
ensure they have an understanding 
of the important policies, laws, and 
regulations that govern our industry, 
guide our company, and protect our 
colleagues, customers, and brand. 
The learning requirements cover 
areas such as our Code of Conduct, 
customer privacy and data security, 
anti-discrimination, fair lending, and 
anti-money laundering.  
The Amex Ethics Hotline provides a 
24/7 channel  in over 200 languages 
for colleagues, contractors, vendors, 
and suppliers to raise ethical or 
compliance concerns.Our Approach
 Responsible 
Business PracticesColleagues Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction17
PROMOTING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES
Business ethics
Throughout our 
history, we have 
reinvented ourselves 
through innovation, 
but we have never 
strayed from the core 
values established by 
our founders: trust, 
service, and security.At the heart of our culture is what we call our  Blue Box Values  – a set of seven guiding 
principles that every employee pledges to embrace and work by each day. Our Blue Box 
Values reflect who we are and what we stand for. 
Our Code of Conduct  trains our colleagues in their responsibilities regarding a range of key 
issues and business practices, including: anti-corruption, technology use, gift-giving, travel 
and entertainment  expenses, identifying and preventing money laundering, conducting 
business with foreign governments, and protecting customer privacy. Business units also 
maintain policies relevant to their specific function. 
Adherence to the code is a condition of employment, and violations can result in termination. 
Each employee must review and sign a copy of the Code of Conduct upon joining American 
Express and confirm receipt every year thereafter.
The company’s Board of Directors is subject to a separate Code of Business Conduct . 
This code is intended to focus each director on appropriate conduct; conflicts of interest 
and other ethical concerns; provide mechanisms to report potential conflicts or unethical 
conduct; and help foster a culture of openness and accountability.  
WE DELIVER FOR OUR 
CUSTOMERS.   
We’re driven by our commitment 
to deliver exceptional products, 
services, and experiences to our 
customers. We value our strong 
customer relationships, and are 
defined by how well we take care 
of them.
WE MAKE IT GREAT.   
We deliver an unparalleled 
standard of excellence in 
everything we do, staying 
focused on the biggest 
opportunities to be meaningful 
to our customers. From our 
innovative products to our 
world-class customer service, 
our customers expect the best—
and our teams are proud to 
deliver it.  WE DO WHAT’S RIGHT.  
Customers choose us because 
they trust our brand and people. 
We earn that trust by ensuring 
everything we do is reliable, 
consistent, and with the highest 
level of integrity.
WE RESPECT PEOPLE.  
We are a diverse and inclusive 
company and serve diverse 
customers. We believe we are a 
better company when each of 
us feels included, valued, and 
able to trust colleagues who 
respect each of us for who we 
are and what we contribute to 
our collective success.
WE NEED DIFFERENT VIEWS.  
By being open to different ideas 
from our colleagues, customers, 
and the world around us, we will 
find more ways to win.WE WIN AS A TEAM.  
We view each other as 
colleagues – part of the  
same team, striving to deliver  
the brand promise to our  
customers and each other  
every day. Individual 
performance is essential  
and valued, but never at the  
expense of the team.
WE CARE ABOUT 
COMMUNITIES.   
We aim to make a difference  
in the communities where  
we work and live. Our 
commitment to corporate  
social responsibility makes  
an impact by strengthening  
our connections.OUR  
BLUE BOX 
VALUES Our Approach
 Responsible 
Business PracticesColleagues Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction18
PROMOTING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES
Anti-bribery & 
corruptionWe have adopted a zero-tolerance policy for bribery, regardless of where 
we are located. We require colleagues to complete anti-corruption and 
bribery training—tying the requirement to annual compensation—to 
ensure they are informed of all laws and regulations. Please refer to our 
Anti-Corruption Standard for more information.
Anti-money 
launderingT o mitigate financial crimes, we have established the American Express 
Global Anti-Money Laundering Policy. We encourage all our colleagues to 
become familiar with the global policy as well as the specific policies within 
their business units, and ensure they understand what actions may be 
violations of anti-money laundering or terrorist financing laws. Potential 
violations are escalated to Compliance and/or Legal staff.
Whistleblower 
programs We maintain an official whistleblower policy to encourage a culture of 
openness and accountability. The full policy can be reviewed here .
Public policy 
engagement 
and political 
contributionsWe have a clear statement on engagement and political activity in the 
U.S. We believe that active engagement in the public policy arena is an 
important part of responsible corporate citizenship and is vital to the 
democratic process. We identify public policy issues that can significantly 
impact aspects of our business in our Annual Report Form 10-K and our 
Lobbying Disclosure Act filings. 
American Express participates in the political process through the 
American Express Company Political Action Committee (AXP PAC) and 
through corporate political contributions in those jurisdictions where it 
is permissible to do so. AXP PAC files regular reports with the Federal 
Election Commission (FEC) and the relevant state election commissions 
on its receipts and disbursements. Reports filed with the FEC are 
available online to the public. Management reports regularly to our  
Board of Directors’ Public Responsibility Committee regarding its 
engagement in the public policy arena, including its fundraising  
activities and political contributions. Refer to Policy Engagement and 
Political Activity  for more information, including lobbying requirements 
and annual U.S. political contributions.Business ethics 
policies and 
procedures
Our policies demonstrate 
how we hold ourselves 
accountable to the 
highest legal, ethical, and 
operational standards.REPORTING CONCERNS
The Amex Ethics Hotline  provides colleagues, contractors, 
vendors, and suppliers with an opportunity to report 
concerns regarding potential compliance or ethical 
matters without fear of retaliation. These matters may 
relate to American Express colleagues and leaders, and/
or to the principles in the company’s Code of Conduct, 
such as financial reporting and accounting; corruption, 
fraud, or other criminal activity; or workplace conduct. 
The hotline is hosted by an independent third party and reporters can choose to provide the information 
confidentially or anonymously (where allowed by local 
laws). Reporters can access it easily, 24 hours a day, seven 
days a week, via phone or online, and reach representatives 
who collectively speak over 200 languages. 
Once submitted, all concerns are forwarded to specially 
trained individuals within American Express who promptly 
review, and, if necessary, investigate the report.Our Approach
 Responsible 
Business PracticesColleagues Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction19
PROMOTING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES
Responsible 
marketingOur marketing programs go through multiple layers of review to ensure  
that our customers are well-informed about our products and services. 
Learn more in the Delivering for Our Customers and Partners section,  
page 36 . 
Equal 
Employment 
Opportunity 
(EEO)American Express seeks to develop and retain a diverse workforce. We 
recognize that a mix of backgrounds, opinions, and talents enriches the 
company and helps us all achieve success. 
We are committed to our corporate responsibilities, which include equal 
employment opportunities for all individuals, based on job- related 
qualifications and ability to perform the job, without regard to race, color, 
religion, sex, national origin, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, 
disability, genetic information, citizenship or marital status, or any other 
basis prohibited by law. This policy extends to all employment decisions, 
and it is also our policy to comply with both the letter and the spirit of the 
law in each of the countries in which we operate.  
In addition, we want our employees and contractors to work in an 
environment that is free from intimidation or harassment of any kind. 
Harassment of employees and contractors by co-workers, supervisors, 
or outsiders is prohibited and may result in disciplinary action, up 
to and including termination of employment or termination of the 
contractor relationship.
Human rights 
and modern 
slavery We respect and promote human rights and are committed to 
leadership in responsible workplace practices across the entire 
company and in all aspects of our business. Our Human Rights 
Statement  and Code of Conduct  embody our commitment to fair and 
equal treatment of all people. 
In addition, we remain committed to preventing acts of modern slavery 
and human trafficking from occurring within both our business and our 
supply chain by ensuring we work only with suppliers of the highest 
standard and by running rigorous employment checks. We strive to 
provide a safe, diverse, and equal opportunity workplace, and inhumane 
practices of modern slavery within both our and partner organizations will 
not be tolerated. Please refer to Our U.K. Modern Slavery T ransparency 
Statement  for more information. 
Code of Conduct All employees are required to complete Code of Conduct  training 
every year. Our policies hold us 
accountable to the 
highest legal, ethical and 
operational standards.BUSINESS ETHICS POLICIES AND PROCEDURESOur Approach
 Responsible 
Business PracticesColleagues Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction20
PROMOTING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES
We have adopted corporate governance principles that, together with our Code 
of Conduct, our Code of Business Conduct for directors, and the charters of the 
six standing committees of the Board (Audit and Compliance, Compensation 
and Benefits, Innovation and Technology, Nominating and Governance, Public 
Responsibility, and Risk) provide our governance framework.
Key governance policies and processes also include our whistleblower policy, our 
comprehensive enterprise-wide risk management program, our commitment to transparent 
financial reporting, and our systems of internal checks and balances. Comprehensive 
management policies, many of which are approved at the Board level, guide our operations.
Our Board, along with management, regularly reviews our Corporate Governance Principles 
and practices to ensure that they are appropriate and reflect our high standards and Blue 
Box Values. In doing so and in making recommendations, the Nominating and Governance 
Committee considers the views of shareholders expressed to us in engagement meetings, as 
well as publicly available discourse on governance. Please refer to our 2018 Proxy Statement  
for more information. 
Our Corporate Governance Principles provide that the Board should be diverse, engaged, and 
independent. When reviewing potential Board nominees, the Nominating and Governance 
Committee considers the diversity of the Board including gender and race and does not 
discriminate on the basis of ethnicity, sexual orientation, culture, or nationality. We believe the 
composition of our Board appropriately reflects a diversity of viewpoints, skills, professional, 
and personal backgrounds and experiences, which enable it to effectively lead our company. Board of Directors and  
corporate governance framework 
Diversity of Tenure  (Non-Managemen t Directors)
year s avera ge tenure
avera ge age
63.6 Years6.3 Year s
< 11 /endash.uc3 4/endash.uc6 7/endash.uc10>  10Tw o Femalegender
Three Minoritiesethnicity
Tw o Reside 
Outside the U .S.geographic
locationBoard highligh ts
12 Independen tdire ctor
independen ceAs of March 
2018, our Board 
comprised 
the following 
demographics:Our Approach
 Responsible 
Business PracticesColleagues Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction21
PROMOTING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES
Precautionary 
approachWe seek to identify and respond to issues that could impact our 
business, our partners, and our communities. Identifying risks, 
engaging with experts, and implementing policies are a few of the 
ways we work to proactively manage risks.
Policy review process We conduct regular reviews of our policies with input from multiple 
governance bodies and our Board. We also review the effectiveness 
of our policies through assessments conducted by our risk 
management team. Our assessments are subject to audit as well as 
regulatory exams. 
Crisis Preparedness 
ProgramWe maintain a Crisis Preparedness Program (CPP) that addresses 
the recovery of key business operations (and supporting 
technology) in the event of an unplanned business disruption. We 
provide our colleagues with CPP training and awareness and make 
sure all CPP plans are exercised and/or tested. We also routinely 
check that our key service providers comply with the program 
requirements. In addition, our Global Human Resources team 
maintains Global Crisis Management Employee Care Guidelines to 
assist leaders in providing support for colleagues worldwide in a 
variety of crisis scenarios.RISK MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE
Our emphasis on risk management and governance structure is how we 
keep our promise to our customers and other stakeholders of security, 
integrity, and trust.
We use our comprehensive Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program to identify, 
aggregate, monitor, and manage risks. The program also defines our risk appetite, governance, 
culture, and capabilities. Our Chief Risk Officer leads implementation and execution of 
the ERM program, and risk management is overseen by our Board of Directors through 
three committees: the Risk Committee, the Audit and Compliance Committee, and the 
Compensation and Benefits Committee. The committees, which are composed of independent 
directors, meet regularly to review our processes in private sessions with our Chief Risk 
Officer, Chief Compliance Officer, Chief Audit Executive, and other senior management. 
For detailed information on our Board and how management oversees risk, please refer to our 
2018 Proxy Statement . Risk management and security
Risk management 
policies and 
proceduresOur Approach
 Responsible 
Business PracticesColleagues Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction22
PROMOTING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES
INFORMATION SECURITY AND PRIVACY 
We value our customers’ trust in our ability to keep their 
data safe and secure, and we have multiple systems in 
place to assure customers’ data and privacy are protected.
Analyzing the transaction data that is processed 
through our closed loop network enables us to create 
value for Card Members and build business for our 
merchant partners. 
T o address an ever-changing data security landscape, our 
Information Security Oversight team within the Global 
Risk Oversight organization works closely with the Chief 
Information Security Officer and ensures an independent 
review and assessment of risk controls. The Information 
Security organization operates a series of functions that 
help predict, protect, detect, respond to, and recover from 
cyberattacks. This includes developing solutions that 
protect our customers, colleagues, and partners from 
increasingly complex attacks.The Privacy organization focuses on handling customer 
and employee data in a manner consistent with our data 
protection principles and manages our practices around 
the collection and handling of personal data, as well as 
notification, privacy choices, data quality, international 
data transfer, and data access.
For more information about our information security and 
privacy controls, see Building a Safe and Secure Network 
(page 41 ). More detailed information is available in our 
2018 Proxy Statement  and 2017 Annual Report .Our Approach
 Responsible 
Business PracticesColleagues Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index Introduction23
PROMOTING RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES
As a leader in our industry, we play an active role in a number of organizations 
that share common business interests. We create long-term strategic 
relationships with these organizations in order to share resources, expertise, 
and distribution networks that help us achieve mutual goals.
Below are some of the organizations with which we are a member or partner:
PUBLIC POLICY/  
ADVOCACY
American Bankers 
Association 
Association of National 
Advertisers
California Bankers 
Association 
Consumer Bankers 
Association 
Direct Marketing Association
Financial Services 
Roundtable
National Association of 
Convenience Stores
The Business Roundtable 
U.S. Chamber of Commerce 
U.S. Chamber of Commerce 
Center for Capital Markets 
Competitiveness
U.S. T ravel AssociationCORPORATE SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY
Association for a 
Better New Y ork
Better Business Bureau of 
Metropolitan New Y ork
Business Council of 
New Y ork State
Business for Social 
Responsibility 
Committee Encouraging 
Corporate Philanthropy
The Conference Board
Council on Foreign Relations
Council on Foundations
Emerging Practitioners 
in Philanthropy
Forum for the Future
Grantmakers for Effective 
Organizations
Independent Sector
Philanthropy New Y ork
US Chamber of 
Commerce Foundation
Leadership Conference 
for Civil and Human 
Rights Business CouncilHUMAN RESOURCES, 
RESEARCH AND LEADERSHIP 
DEVELOPMENT
Blue Circle Leadership
Corporate Executive Board 
Council of Urban Professionals
Center for Advanced 
Human Resource Studies 
Center for T alent Innovation 
Executive Leadership Council
Management Leadership 
for T omorrow
National Association for 
Black Accountants
T rueBlue InclusionAdvocacy and membership in key organizationsColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices
24
SERVING OUR 
COLLEAGUES
We aim to inspire a culture where 
differences are embraced and 
colleagues are enabled to reach their 
full potential.  
25 Introduction
26 Our Global Diversity and Inclusion strategy
29 Providing learning and development
31 Valuing and supporting our people
34 Supporting colleague recognition  
and engagementColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices
25
Serving our colleagues
We know that treating 
colleagues well is not just 
the right thing to do, it’s an 
essential component of our 
service ethos. 
We advocate for our colleagues’ 
professional growth, compensate 
them equitably, support their 
health and well-being, and 
make room for their personal 
responsibilities and aspirations.  2017 key commitments and highlights
Foster a diverse and 
inclusive culture
87 percent of colleagues who 
responded  to our annual survey  
said they would recommend our 
company as a great place to work. 
This is an increase of two percentage 
points from 2016.
Since 2004, we have scored 100 
percent on the Human Rights 
Campaign’s Corporate Equality 
Index, based on our policies and 
practices that support LGBTQ 
inclusion.
We were named to Bloomberg’s 
Financial Services Gender-Equality 
Index, based on our efforts to  
create a work environment that 
supports gender equality.
Support our colleagues’ 
professional and personal goals
96 percent of our colleagues 
have access to at least one Healthy 
Living program or service.
We expanded paid parental leave 
to 20 weeks for male and female 
U.S.-based regular full-time and 
part-time salaried colleagues.
More than 70 percent of our 
colleagues participated in either 
a personal or a professional 
development experience  through 
trainings we offer.
43 percent of U.S. colleagues had 
a flexible work arrangement.Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices26
SERVING OUR COLLEAGUES
Our Global Diversity and Inclusion strategy
U.S. Colleagues (2017) Total non-minority Total  minority Total women
Senior-level executives 
and managers76% 24% 30%
Mid-level executives and 
managers62% 38% 53%
Professionals* 51% 49% 42%
All others** 51% 49% 71%
T otal U.S. colleagues 56% 44% 55%
* Professionals category includes non-managerial employees such as analysts, designers, engineers, etc. 
**All others category includes office and clerical roles, sales support, service workers, etc. American 
Express – United 
States Workforce 
DiversityWe have a long history of advocating for diversity and inclusion in all areas 
of our business. We believe that a diverse and inclusive workforce provides a 
competitive advantage in the marketplace and serves as the foundation to drive 
our business transformation. We want the talent we recruit and develop at every 
level to come from all walks of life.
We have developed our Global Diversity 
& Inclusion strategy and areas of focus 
in response to the needs of our business, 
marketplace data, external research, 
internal metrics, and insights from our 
workforce. They are designed to increase 
the diversity of our talent in order to 
reflect the next generation workforce  and the customers we serve and promote 
an inclusive culture in which differences 
are embraced and colleagues are enabled 
to reach their full potential. 
We hold senior executives accountable  
for incorporating and promoting this 
strategy by including diversity goals in  
our business scorecards.Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices27
SERVING OUR COLLEAGUES
PAY EQUITY
At American Express, pay equity is a fundamental 
expectation, central to our mission to attract and retain 
the best talent. We are committed to ensuring that our 
pay and reward structure is equitable and free of any 
bias. This is a key component of our overall commitment 
to creating a diverse and an inclusive workplace, which 
has been a consistent focus for us for nearly three 
decades. 
Based on the most recent comprehensive pay analysis 
we conducted with a third-party consulting firm, we are 
confident that our colleagues are compensated equitably, regardless of gender. The review found no evidence of 
bias in our compensation processes and indicated we 
were effectively at parity.
An additional pay equity analysis conducted in the 
U.K.  confirmed there is no bias in our compensation 
processes there. 
In 2017 , some U.S. states and cities passed laws 
prohibiting employers from asking applicants about 
their salary history. American Express has already 
implemented this practice in the U.S. 
PAY FOR ROLE
We set pay guidelines 
for roles, independent 
of the people who 
perform them.PAY FOR PERFORMANCE
We compensate our 
employees based on 
performance and other 
business related criteria 
without regard to gender or 
any other unlawful factor.
PAY PARITY
We compensate employees 
doing the same job 
equitably* and free of any 
unlawful bias.
*All other factors being equal  
(i.e., role, skills, competencies,  
and performance).PAY GOVERNANCE
We hold ourselves fully 
accountable to uphold a 
high standard on pay equity.Pay Equity  
Guiding PrinciplesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices28
SERVING OUR COLLEAGUES
Since 1987, our colleague networks have provided opportunities that support 
personal and professional development, skill building, and career growth. With 
16 networks and nearly 100 chapters worldwide, colleague networks encompass 
the full spectrum of diversity at American Express, including disability, ethnicity, 
faith, gender, gender identity, generations, sexual orientation, and veteran’s status.
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION HIGHLIGHTS 
LGBTQ INCLUSION 
American Express has scored 100 percent on the Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality 
Index since 2004. We are also a member of Open For Business, a coalition of global companies 
making the economic and business case for LGBTQ inclusion in companies around the world.
ONE OF CANADA’S BEST DIVERSITY EMPLOYERS
For the past three years, we are proud to have been named one of Canada’s Best Diversity 
Employers. Our Women at Amex program in Canada has focused our efforts toward creating 
a culture dedicated to gender diversity. The program, which is aimed at supporting the 
advancement and development of women in corporate Canada, plays a key role in gender 
diversity activities there. Colleague networks, most notably the Women’s Interest and Women in 
T echnology networks, are strong supporters of the initiative.
ADVANCING OUR DIVERSE TALENT
The Executive Chapter of the Black Employee Network (Executive BEN) partners with Global 
Diversity & Inclusion to host a biennial, two-day global forum for all Black and African-American 
colleagues at the level of vice president and above. The most recent forum, “Leading With Impact, ” 
included presentations and breakout sessions on topics such as developing the Black and African-
American talent pipeline and the importance of employee networks.
In October 2017 , the executive chapter of the HOLA (Hispanic Origin and Latin American Employee) 
Network brought Hispanic and Latino leaders at the level of vice president and above together with 
HOLA chapter leads from across the United States for the inaugural Executive HOLA Summit. The 
goal of the summit was to deepen the network’s focus on career and professional development.DEVELOPING WOMEN LEADERS
Women represent more than 50 percent of our 
colleagues worldwide and 30 percent of our most 
senior executives. 
We target opportunities to engage and retain female 
colleagues, and we promote customized learning 
and engagement opportunities for women through 
both internal trainings and external programming. In 
addition, through our colleague networks and global 
forums we aim to build stronger and more meaningful 
relationships for women in order to drive sponsorship, 
retention, and the continued progression of women 
into leadership roles. American Express is Recognized Once Again on 
Bloomberg’s Financial Services Gender-Equality Index 
We are proud to share that based 
on our  efforts to create a work 
environment that supports gender 
equality,  we have been named to 
Bloomberg’s Financial Services 
Gender-Equality Index (BFSGEI) 
in 2016 and 2017 . In January 
2018, American Express was also 
recognized in Bloomberg's inaugural 
sector-neutral 2018 Gender Equality 
Index (GEI).
Promoting 
diversity and 
inclusion through 
colleague 
networks Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices29
SERVING OUR COLLEAGUES
Developing and retaining our best people are top priorities at American 
Express. We offer a variety of ways to support our colleagues’ professional 
growth. Colleagues are encouraged to take multiple approaches to expanding 
their experience and networks, such as: 
 Leadership programs
 Personal development activities
 Colleague networks
 Continuing education
At American Express, leadership is expected at all levels. We recruit and develop people who 
know how to build relationships, influence others, and drive results that benefit our customers 
and our company. With the help of formal programs and thousands of training activities, as 
well as opportunities to do challenging work with a purpose, we aim to cultivate strong leaders 
who want to make a difference while growing their own careers. In 2017 , more than 70 percent 
of our colleagues participated in either a personal or a professional development experience 
through trainings we offer.Providing learning and development
Introducing the 
American Express 
Leadership  
Academy for 
colleaguesFor a decade, we’ve developed nonprofit leaders in our communities through our 
American Express Leadership Academy (please refer to Caring for Our Communities, 
page 47 , for more information). 
In 2017 , we set forth to build the first ever American Express Leadership Academy for our own 
colleagues, with a vision to become the most admired company for growing leaders. 
The American Express Leadership Academy provides colleagues with the experience, skills, 
and qualifications they need to grow and contribute as a leader throughout their career.  
The Leadership Academy was designed with a three-pronged approach: 
on demand 
leadershipenterprise 
leadershipby invitation  
leadershipColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices30
SERVING OUR COLLEAGUES
2017 PROGRAM RESULTS
AMERICAN EXPRESS & HARVARD  
CERTIFICATE IN LEADERSHIP EXCELLENCEACCELERATED LEADERSHIP  
DEVELOPMENT (ALD)ACCELERATE YOUR  
GROWTH (AYG)
3,600+
managers and directors completed 
the certificate program.
94%
average overall certificate  
satisfaction.43
participants graduated  
from the program.125
colleagues completed  
the AYG experience. THE AMERICAN EXPRESS LEADERSHIP ACADEMY FOR COLLEAGUES
ON DEMAND LEADERSHIP
On Demand Leadership is a collection of curated content on key leadership topics, available for all colleagues  
to access on our intranet at any time. In 2017 , we chose to focus on select topics aligned to our strategic focus  
on collaboration, innovation, and agile decision-making.
On Demand Leadership also comprises an Executive Development Center,  aimed at vice presidents and above.  
The Center offers 1:1 executive coaching, team experiences, a tool for 360° feedback, and “leadership transitions, ”  
an organizing and planning framework for leaders who are moving into a new role. 
ENTERPRISE LEADERSHIP
Enterprise Leadership delivers targeted leadership 
development programs to colleagues at specific stages 
of their careers. In 2017 , two new required leadership 
development programs were designed to reach key 
segments of colleagues throughout the enterprise: 
American Express & Harvard Certificate in 
Leadership Excellence
The American Express & Harvard Certificate in 
Leadership Excellence is targeted to our colleagues 
at the levels of manager, director, and vice president. 
This customized, best-in-class leadership development 
experience, created in partnership with Harvard, is 
designed to deliver powerful insights and develop 
behaviors rooted in our three dimensions of leadership: 
set the agenda, bring others with you, and do it the 
right way. 
New People Leader Program 
Developed in partnership with Harvard, The New 
People Leader Program is a required offering for 
first-time people leaders up to the director level. The 
program supports the development of critical skills 
needed by participants to contribute and grow. BY INVITATION LEADERSHIP
By Invitation Leadership offers select individuals  
additional learning opportunities based on nominations 
from senior leaders. These programs target high-potential 
and high-performing American Express leaders at levels 
from manager to vice president.
Accelerated Leadership Development (A LD)
The ALD program is designed to strengthen  
the leadership pipeline by developing select,  
high-potential, and high-performing vice presidents  
who have been recommended to participate.  
Since 2011, 163 participants have graduated from the 
program (including 43 in 2017), and are moving into 
roles with increasing responsibility throughout the 
company. ALD participants are two to three times  
more likely to be promoted within five years relative  
to their peers.
Accelerate Your Growth ( AYG)
AYG is a dynamic six-month development experience 
that targets select high-performing managers and 
directors each year in order to develop and strengthen 
our leadership pipeline. Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices31
SERVING OUR COLLEAGUES
THE AMERICAN EXPRESS HUMAN 
CAPITAL SCORECARD
We have a robust program in place 
to assess and manage human capital 
priorities – identified as talent-related 
opportunities linked to business 
outcomes. Senior human resource 
leaders develop human capital priorities 
annually, and track progress quarterly 
against plans. These assessments 
inform annual goals that are assigned 
to senior leaders, and performance 
against these goals directly affects 
compensation and year-end decisions. 
The American Express Human 
Capital Scorecard reports across two 
categories:
Talent Retention 
Develop and retain an engaged, 
high-performing workforce.
Diversity & Inclusion 
Build and maintain a diverse and 
inclusive workforce.Valuing and supporting our people
WORKING BETTER BY WORKING SMARTER
BlueWork, a redesign of our office environments 
that began in 1998, has become the standard for our 
locations worldwide.
The guiding principles of BlueWork are:
Connected  
BlueWork connects people in new ways both 
in-person and virtually to work together, build 
community, and drive innovation.
Responsible  
BlueWork makes the most out of our investment 
in the workplace and reduces our environmental 
impact.
Effective  
BlueWork drives performance in the workplace 
with the right types of workspaces and technology 
to enable great work, attract top talent, and drive 
success for American Express.
Dynamic 
BlueWork supports a variety of activities, styles of 
working, and team structures with flexible space 
that supports collaboration, heads-down work, and 
everything in between.Exceptional 
service begins 
with great people, 
and we believe we 
employ some  
of the best talent  
in the industry. Our colleagues relish the challenge of finding new solutions to meet our customers’ 
needs. They adapt, persist, and champion innovation within their teams and across  
the organization. 
We strive to ensure our people feel valued, recognized, and supported, and we continually 
measure our progress. Our annual colleague survey, The Pulse, provides insights into 
colleague satisfaction, leadership efficacy, learning opportunities, and career development. 
The survey results help us improve the colleague experience, our culture, and business results. 
As a result of the feedback received through the survey, we have increased our focus on 
collaboration and empowering colleagues at all levels to become involved in decision-making. 
Our consistently high colleague satisfaction scores are a testament to the strength of our 
relationships. In 2017 , 87 percent of colleagues responding to The Pulse said they would 
recommend our company as a great place to work. This was up from 85 percent in 2016.Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices32
SERVING OUR COLLEAGUES
FLEXIBLE WORKING
Whether it’s a variable schedule or a virtual role, we 
believe it’s important to accommodate a range of work 
styles. Our flexible workspace, benefits, and parental 
leave help us attract and retain the best people. We also 
support colleagues who want to volunteer for the causes 
they care about during work hours, as long as they receive 
approval from their manager.
All full-time and part-time U.S. colleagues who meet 
certain performance requirements can request a flexible 
work arrangement. Their leaders determine whether 
such an arrangement makes sense for the type of role 
and work style of the group. We provide formal channels 
to guide colleagues and leaders on decisions related to 
flextime, part-time, compressed work weeks, job sharing, 
and remote work.SUPPORTING OUR COLLEAGUES’  
WELL -BEING
We invest in our colleagues’ physical and mental well-
being through Healthy Living, our award-winning 
corporate health and wellness initiative. Healthy Living 
provides supportive resources, enhanced access to care, 
and incentives that foster a healthier lifestyle.
In the seven years since it launched, Healthy Living has 
made an impact on colleagues’ lifestyles. This program 
encourages colleagues to increase their physical 
activity and helps colleagues better understand the 
consequences of poor health and stress.
Our Healthy Minds program is a free, confidential 
counseling service that helps colleagues plan for life 
events, address personal issues, or simply manage 
everyday events that can affect their work, health and 
family. At select locations, many colleagues have year-
round access to on-site Healthy Minds counselors, 
relaxation rooms, and yoga and meditation classes. 
Healthy Minds has won multiple awards. The program has 
received two major American Psychological Association 
awards: the inaugural national Organizational Excellence 
Award and the Phoenix Workplace Excellence Award. It 
has also won the Employee Assistance Society of North 
America’s Corporate Excellence award, the organization’s 
highest honor.
350
T elePresence Studios  
across the world .5  66% 
of our office space was 
part of BlueWork, as of 
December 31, 2017 . 43%
of U.S. colleagues 
had a flexible work 
arrangement.32% 
of global colleagues who 
responded to The Pulse 
survey had a flexible work 
arrangement. 
96%
of colleagues had 
access to at least  
one Healthy Living 
program or service .21 
on-site Healthy  
Living Wellness 
Centers are open 
around the world.98% 
of the colleague population 
was covered by Healthy 
Minds around the globe.FLEXIBLE WORKING 
IN 2017
HEALTHY LIVING 
PROGRAMS IN 
2017Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices33
SERVING OUR COLLEAGUES
HELPING OUR COLLEAGUES WITH FAMILY RESPONSIBILITIES
Supporting our colleagues also means supporting their families. That’s why we offer a number of family benefits to 
better support our working families: 
GENDER -NEUTRAL PARENTAL LEAVE 
In 2017 , we increased the amount of parental leave to 
20 weeks for U.S.-based regular full-time and part-time 
employees. Both mothers and fathers receive full base pay 
for the entire time, regardless of whether they are growing 
their family by pregnancy, adoption, or surrogacy. Birth 
mothers are eligible to receive an additional six to eight 
weeks of paid leave if medically necessary. In addition 
to the extended parental leave policy, we have launched 
a Parent Concierge program through which a dedicated 
representative helps colleagues understand and navigate 
their leaves and take better advantage of the wide array 
of free resources and programs available to them.
ADOPTION AND SURROGACY POLICY 
Colleagues who grow their family through adoption or 
surrogacy can be reimbursed for expenses up to $35,000 
per child, per event with a lifetime maximum of two 
events. Those who undergo reproductive treatments are 
eligible for up to $35,000 in medical assistance.FAMILIES AT AMERICAN EXPRESS 
EMPLOYEE NETWORK 
Launched in 2005, this network reaches more than 
5,000 members across eight chapters, providing 
support for families that need help balancing personal 
and professional priorities.
BACK -UP CHILD CARE 
Colleagues throughout the U.S., U.K., France, and Canada 
can access in-home or center-based child care when 
their regular arrangements fall through. For example, 
U.S. colleagues receive 20 days of subsidized backup 
dependent care (in-home or through a child care center) 
per year. In France, colleagues can benefit from 30 days 
of nursery care for their children up to age three. 
SPECIAL FOCUS ON SPECIAL NEEDS 
In the U.S., we provide programs and resources for 
parents of special needs children, including free webinars 
on topics like: “Self Care for Parents of Children with 
Special Needs” and “Autism 101. ” We also partner with 
major organizations that help raise awareness for the 
special needs community.
 
6% 
At the start of 2017 , we 
increased the company 
match for our 401(k) 
retirement savings 
account from 5 to 6% 
of total pay for U.S. 
colleagues. 
88%
As of December 31, 2017 , 
88% of U.S. colleagues 
were participating in the 
401(k) program. 
4,000+
American Express celebrates Global 
Smart Saving Month, during which we 
focus on financial wellness education 
with a variety of events and workshops, 
including a personalized financial 
wellness assessment, completed by over 
4,000 colleagues in 2017 .FINANCIAL 
WELLNESSHELPING OUR COLLEAGUES ACHIEVE FINANCIAL WELLNESS 
Our global Smart Saving programs provide colleagues with financial education and resources geared toward specific 
life stages: recent graduates entering the workforce, new families, parents planning for college, and so on.
In the U.S., Smart Saving includes our 401(k) program; financial planning coaching and workshops (including 
on-site and telephone-based coaching at no cost to colleagues); deals and discounts to help colleagues save 
money on everyday expenses, such as commuting; and on-demand access to financial education resources.Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices34
SERVING OUR COLLEAGUES
We recognize outstanding colleague contributions large and small. Everyday colleague 
recognition is especially important – it helps inspire our colleagues to continue to do 
great work.
REWARD BLUE
Our global reward and recognition program recognizes colleagues for their achievements 
with monetary and non-monetary awards. Reward Blue builds a culture of appreciation by 
encouraging colleagues to praise each other’s everyday efforts, reward exceptional results, 
and celebrate important anniversaries. 
SERVING TOGETHER
Our colleagues are active members of their communities, and our flagship programs, 
Serve2Gether, Give2Gether, and Green2Gether are designed to foster a sense of shared 
purpose and provide an opportunity to give back.  Refer to the Caring for our Community 
section ( page 47 ) for more information.
OUR 2017 TOP EMPLOYER AWARDS
Our commitment to being an employer of choice continues to earn us industry awards and 
recognition. Here are some of the recognitions from 2017 that make us most proud: 
FORTUNE 100 Best Companies to Work For – ranked #69
FORTUNE 2017 World’s Most Admired Companies – ranked #17
FORTUNE 50 Best Companies for Diversity – ranked #20
Black Enterprise: Best Companies for Diversity
Working Mother Best Companies to Work For
Working Mother Best Companies for Multicultural Women
Working Mother NAFE T op 50 Companies for Executive Women 
Anita Borg Institute T op Companies for Women T echnologists
Human Rights Campaign: Corporate Equality Index, Rating American 
Workplaces on Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Equality (Score: 100%)
AON Hewitt: Best Employer: Hong Kong, Malaysia, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand
Working Families (U.K.): T op 30 Employers Supporting colleague recognition and engagement 
In 2017, 78% of our 
colleagues received 
recognition or 
appreciation through 
Reward Blue, up from 
74 percent in 2016.Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices
35
DELIVERING 
FOR OUR 
CUSTOMERS 
AND PARTNERS 
We use our relationships, technology, 
and data to better serve our 
customers and increase commerce 
opportunities for our partners. 
36 Introduction
38 Putting the customer first 
41 Building a safe and secure network
43 Empowering entrepreneurs
45 Supporting women-owned businessColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices
36
Delivering for our  
Customers and Partners 
Our broad and diverse 
customer base spans 
consumers, small and 
midsize companies and large 
corporations, partners who 
issue cards on our network 
and others who work with us 
to create special products 
and experiences, and the 
merchants who welcome our 
Card Members. 2017 key commitments and highlights
Meet the evolving needs of 
our customer base
We have been rated as one 
of Ponemon’s Most Trusted 
Companies for Privacy for the past 
10 years.
Customer satisfaction with our 
service has increased  19 percent 
since 2011 based on Card Member 
feedback.
We launched the sixth annual 
Pride campaign to celebrate 
LGBTQ  Card Members, merchants, 
colleagues, and local communities.
Support small businesses across 
the world
An estimated four-in-ten   
(43 percent) American adults 
shopped or dined small  on  
Small Business Saturday .1 
Make our products and services 
better for society
From 2010 to 2017 , U.S. Card 
Members donated over $89 
million through our Members 
GiveSM program,  by either donating 
dollars on their American Express 
Cards or redeeming Membership 
Rewards points to benefit charitable 
causes.
We announced SafeKey® 2.0 
the next generation of our online 
authentication tool that leverages 
the EMV® 3-D Secure 2.0 industry 
standard and provides an extra 
layer of security when an 
American Express Card Member 
makes a purchase online at a 
participating merchant.Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices37
DELIVERING FOR OUR CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS
 CONSUMERS
Our Card Members come from many walks of life. 
We do our best to make it easier for them to pay for 
all their purchases, reward them for their loyalty, and 
help them buy and travel with peace of mind. We offer 
a range of Credit Cards, Charge Cards, and other 
services to suit their needs.   BUSINESS
We issued our first formal Corporate Card in 1966. 
T oday, we are still the leader in the commercial 
payments space. We serve businesses of all sizes, 
from small, independently owned establishments to 
large, global organizations— including more than 60 
percent of Fortune 500 companies internationally.6 
 MERCHANTS
Millions of stores, restaurants, travel operators, and 
other establishments around the world welcome 
American Express cards. We work to make sure their 
experience is as seamless as possible. And we help 
them grow their businesses by connecting them 
to our high-spending customers, and by providing 
marketing and other services.  PARTNERS
Airlines. Banks. Retailers. Entertainment venues. 
Hotels. Restaurants. Digital players. We have strategic 
partners in all kinds of fields helping us give our 
customers the rewards and experiences they care 
about. Partners help us give our customers more 
choices when it comes to spending with us.
We have a service network with more than 30,000 
professionals around the globe focused on improving 
customers’ service experiences. This includes the 
Customer Care Professionals who connect with 
our customers directly as well the colleagues who 
support our service vision in areas like learning, 
capabilities, fulfillment, and analytics. We maintain 
and publish accessibility requirements for everyone 
who works with our websites and mobile apps.Visually impaired Card 
Members can access Braille 
and large-font versions of 
statements and year-end 
summaries. They can also ask 
our Customer Care staff to 
read correspondence and even 
billing statements to them.Customer satisfaction 
has increased 19 
percent since 2011 
based on Card 
Member feedback.WHO WE SERVE
HOW WE SERVEColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices38
DELIVERING FOR OUR CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS
We aim to provide the world’s best customer experience every day. Across our 
global servicing organization, we make a commitment to put the customer 
first, and to set the standard for customer care. 
We do this by recognizing and valuing each of our customers, keeping things simple, and 
owning and solving every issue or inquiry.
DELIVERING SERVICE EXCELLENCE WITH RELATIONSHIP CARE®
At American Express, we deliver a unique brand of service we call Relationship Care®: treating 
every interaction as an opportunity to deepen relationships. Everyone at American Express 
plays a role in delivering our world-class customer experience. But our front-line colleagues 
are the ones who bring our brand to life every day.
T o show our service team just how much we appreciate the care they provide, we celebrate the 
best of the best with an internal Customer Service Award. Each year, we recognize colleagues 
who provided a specific act of outstanding service in the past year and colleagues who have 
consistently delivered great customer care over time.
OUR 2017 CUSTOMER SERVICE AWARDS
In 2017 , we received recognition for our service ethic and commitment to customers from 
organizations around the world. For the ninth time, we received the highest ranking from J.D. 
Power in the U.S. Credit Card Satisfaction StudySM, and we have won various awards for service 
and customer satisfaction in locations including the U.K., Mexico, Hong Kong, Japan, Australia, 
India, and Singapore.Putting the customer first 
We created GivingExpress® in 2010 to help our 
Card Members give back. Now known as Members 
GiveSM, the program simplifies charitable giving, 
connecting Card Members to the causes that matter 
to them. Card Members can access more than a 
million worthy organizations online, making donations 
on their American Express cards or by redeeming 
Membership Rewards points.From 2010 to 2017 , U.S.  
Card Members donated over 
 
$89
million through our  
Members GiveSM program. CONNECTING CARD MEMBERS WITH CAUSES THEY CARE ABOUTColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices39
DELIVERING FOR OUR CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS
DEVELOPING MOBILE AND 
DIGITAL PLATFORMS 
Throughout our history, we’ve reinvented how we 
deliver an exceptional service experience to customers, 
when and where they need it, by leveraging our data, 
technology, and expertise.
From our mobile app and alerts to innovations like 
American Express Checkout, Pay with Points, American 
Express Bot, and OptBlue, we have developed solutions 
that remove the friction from the overall commerce 
experience for both merchants and consumers, doing so 
in a safe and secure way. Our latest innovations include:
American Express and Apple Face ID: American 
Express Card Members who use the iPhone X can use 
the new Face ID verification method to authenticate a 
payment for Apple Pay.
American Express and FITBIT: American Express 
Card Members can load their eligible U.S. Consumer, 
Small Business, or Corporate Card onto the Fitbit 
Wallet so they can pay for things seamlessly right from 
their device, wherever NFC contactless payments are 
accepted. 
American Express and Mezi: Mezi is a personal 
travel assistant app that uses artificial intelligence 
and human expertise to personalize the online travel 
booking experience. 
OFFERING ALTERNATIVES TO 
TRADITIONAL BANKING
We serve a wide range of customers and have innovated 
to provide products and services to meet new needs 
and preferences. We continue to issue our reloadable 
prepaid products Bluebird® and Serve® with InComm as 
the program manager and processor. These products 
allow customers in the United States without access to 
traditional banking to set up paycheck deposits, access 
bills online, put aside money for the future, send money to 
friends and family, and use tools to manage their money.TREATING CUSTOMERS FAIRLY 
We recognize that fairness must be the foundation of 
our customer relationships, and we keep it front and 
center when creating products and services. We are also 
committed to keeping our customers well-informed and 
confident in using our products. This means marketing 
our products in a way that is clear, transparent, and 
informative.
RESPONSIBLE MARKETING 
AND FAIR LENDING
Our Consumer Practices Group helps us fulfill our 
commitment to fairness and transparency with a fair 
lending program that has clear policies and governance, 
monitoring and testing, and strong analytics. The group 
performs root-cause analyses of customer complaints 
mentioning or alleging discrimination; reviews marketing 
offers and collateral for potential discouragement or 
exclusion of a protected class; and conducts statistical 
analyses to ensure our marketing and credit decisions do 
not adversely impact protected classes in violation of fair 
lending laws.   
GLOBAL CUSTOMER PRACTICES STATEMENT
“ American Express believes that delivering 
products and services in a fair and transparent 
manner is critical to providing best-in-class 
customer service. As part of its fundamental 
commitment to meet customer credit 
needs throughout the world, American 
Express is dedicated to engaging in customer 
practices that embody transparency, 
truthfulness, fairness, and a culture of 
non-discrimination throughout the credit 
lifecycle. The company manages and mitigates 
customer practices risk through dedicated 
resources, and ongoing monitoring, testing, 
and oversight. This also applies to third-
party vendors and their subcontractors, 
also known as fourth-party vendors.”Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices40
DELIVERING FOR OUR CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS
AMERICAN EXPRESS CUSTOMER DATA PRINCIPLES
Our customers have the right to request the  
information that we have on them, review it,  
and make changes.
Helping students build a healthy financial future
YOUNG WAY TO PAY
In 2017 , American Express financial 
experts joined with the Italian NGO 
Foundation for Financial Education 
and Savings to conduct financial 
education workshops and lectures 
for more than 200 students between 
the ages of 14 and 19 in Rome and 
Milan.EVERFI AND FINANCIAL 
LITERACY ONLINE
We collaborated with a 
financial education partner, 
EverFi, to implement 20 new 
online adult financial literacy 
modules for the Suazo Center 
for Business Development 
and Entrepreneurship in Utah, 
which provides entrepreneurial, 
management, and financial 
planning training in English and 
Spanish.HELPING STUDENTS BUILD A 
HEALTHY FINANCIAL FUTURE
Since 2004, we have sponsored 
Junior Achievement China’s My 
Money Business, an in-class program 
that helps students ages 14-19 in 
Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Xi’an, 
Chongqing, and Shenzhen learn how 
to manage their money and establish 
good fiscal habits. More than 1,800 
American Express and community 
volunteers have been involved, and 
we have reached nearly 20,000 
students through the program. PROMOTING FINANCIAL HEALTH
We want to help customers make informed choices, avoid financial 
pitfalls, and follow good practices to improve their financial well-being. 
For more than 40 years, we have supported financial literacy programs 
in partnership with some of the world’s most respected organizations. 
These programs address the financial needs of young people, first-time 
credit users, and experienced credit users who want to improve their 
financial management skills. 
Around the world we support financial literacy programs, working with 
local nonprofits and organizations to educate youth and adults, and 
support education workshops from the U.S. to Italy to China.Our principles of 
responsible marketing 
include:
TRA NSPARENCY
Marketing offers should be clear, 
simple, and easy to understand.
Marketers should consider all 
reasonable interpretations from 
a customer’s or prospect’s point 
of view.
ACCOUNTABILITY
Marketers should think about 
how the offer will work: risks, 
controls, and monitoring 
associated with the end-to-end 
execution, including fulfillment 
and servicing.
Marketers should create and 
retain documentation, including 
process flows, control measures, 
monitoring, and stakeholder 
approvals.Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices41
DELIVERING FOR OUR CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS
Building a safe and secure network
Our robust privacy program has clear policies and governance, so our customers know they 
can trust how we collect, use, and protect their personal information.
INVESTING IN A RIGOROUS PRIVACY PROGRAM
Our Global Privacy team helps us protect our customers’ data and develop practical ways to 
manage personal information. The team’s work includes:
Processes and training: Our Data 
Protection and Privacy Principles 
guide how we collect, use, and process 
our customers’ personal information. 
Additional privacy policies and controls 
help our colleagues safeguard this 
information. These principles are 
reinforced through mandatory privacy and 
data security training for colleagues . 
Technology: We have invested in 
technology that ensures our customers 
have control over their privacy choices, 
including opting in or out of marketing 
communications. Privacy Center: Available on 
AmericanExpress.com, our Privacy Center 
gives consumers in the United States 
information about our Data Protection and 
Privacy Principles and provides access 
to our privacy notices and disclosures. 
We work hard to ensure our disclosures 
clearly explain how we collect and use our 
customers’ personal information. 
This rigorous framework helps to ensure we comply with privacy laws and regulations and 
reflect consumers’ expectations for privacy.
MAINTAINING OUR GLOBAL, INTEGRATED NETWORK 
Our business model means we maintain direct relationships with both Card Members and 
merchants, operating an integrated network that provides us with information on transactions 
from both perspectives. This gives us the ability to provide both customized marketing to 
merchants and special offers to Card Members with best-in-class risk management. 
 We have been rated as one of Ponemon’s Most Trusted 
Companies for Privacy in the United States for the past 
10 consecutive years.We know that good 
customer service 
means maintaining 
consumer trust. Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices42
DELIVERING FOR OUR CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS
INVESTING IN FRAUD PREVENTION – 
PRESERVING TRUST WITH MACHINE 
LEARNING TECHNIQUES
Our state-of-the-art monitoring tools, controls, and 
policies help detect and prevent fraud in our operations 
around the world. Our data scientists analyze all the 
data within our integrated network to identify suspicious 
account activity and deploy valuable protections such as 
fraud alerts to our customers, often in real time. 
T o combat the increasing sophistication and 
scale of fraud attacks, we use advanced, machine 
learning algorithms to evaluate different data points 
and make fraud risk decisions on every American 
Express transaction, anywhere in the world, within 
two milliseconds. This helps to interrupt fraudulent 
spending, in turn reducing chargebacks to merchants 
and providing peace of mind to our Card Members, 
which is core to maintaining an outstanding service 
experience. 
Machine learning models also allow us to delve 
much more deeply into understanding the unique 
patterns of our customers’ spending and fraudulent 
episodes. They have made it significantly easier to 
detect counterfeit and online fraud while minimizing 
disruption to our customers’ genuine activity. We have 
also partnered with merchants to develop advanced 
techniques for detecting compromised Card Member 
account information, and have deployed advanced 
authentication solutions to detect identity theft. 
As a result, we have experienced the lowest fraud rates 
in the industry for many years, helping us protect our 
Card Members and merchants and delivering on our 
brand promise of trust, security, and service.MAINTAINING SECURE PAYMENTS 
Over the years, we have been investing in, and promoting 
the use of, more secure connections and authentication 
mechanisms across whichever payment channel our 
Card Members select, from in-store and online to mobile 
wallets. For example:
INAUTH: T o extend our multilayered strategy for fighting 
fraud, in December 2016 we acquired InAuth, Inc., a 
leading provider of mobile device authentication and 
intelligence solutions. InAuth’s technology reduces 
risk and helps identify potential fraud across mobile 
devices. The acquisition complements and enhances 
our comprehensive data analytics and fraud prevention 
capabilities.
SAFEKEY: In 2017 , we rolled out SafeKey® 2.0, the  
next generation of our online authentication tool that 
leverages the EMV® 3-D Secure 2.0 industry standard  
and provides an extra layer of security when an American 
Express Card Member makes a purchase online at a 
participating merchant. The updated platform supports 
authentication methods using biometrics, including 
fingerprints and facial recognition. It can also be deployed 
for traditional and emerging commerce channels.
EMV: EMV chip card technology enhances the security of 
payment transactions by leveraging dynamic information 
generated via a chip embedded in a payment card. We 
have seen steady adoption of EMV by our U.S. merchants, 
We expect that percentage to continue to increase as 
more merchants upgrade their point-of-sale systems.
Educating our 
colleaguesSystems and practices for protecting customer information are only as strong as 
the people who implement them.  T raining our colleagues and offering best-in-class 
technology are critical to mitigating risk. This includes educating colleagues to learn about 
risks inherent in the payment services industry, providing tools to analyze those risks, and 
ensuring colleagues know where and how to escalate issues. All colleagues participate in 
mandatory information security and privacy training every year. We also run simulations 
that test our colleagues’ ability to detect and respond to suspicious activity.Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices43
DELIVERING FOR OUR CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS
Empowering entrepreneurs
SUPPORTING SMALL BUSINESS GROWTH
Small businesses help communities thrive by bringing character to neighborhoods, as 
well as jobs and investment. We have been dedicated to serving small businesses for 
more than 25 years, and when we help them reach their potential, we can make a positive 
impact on communities. 
For example, our American Express charge and credit cards help small businesses grow by 
allowing them to buy what small businesses need, when they need it. We also offer a suite of 
programs and resources for small business owners, including online resources and live events. 
THE SHOP SMALL MOVEMENT
November 25, 2017 marked the eighth annual Small Business Saturday, a day to support the 
local businesses that create jobs, boost the economy, and enhance neighborhoods around 
the country. We created Small Business Saturday in response to small business owners’ most 
pressing need: more customers. It has since become part of the national holiday shopping 
lexicon and spread beyond the U.S. to some of our other regions. We continue to broaden our 
Small Business Saturday campaigns each year, and each year they provide shoppers with the 
opportunity to discover new merchants and celebrate the local independent businesses that 
make their communities unique. 
#EXPRESSLOVE
In June 2017 we launched our sixth annual Pride campaign to 
celebrate LGBTQ Card Members, merchants, colleagues, and 
local communities. We encouraged our Card Members in the 
U.S. to “#ExpressLove” and support local merchants. We hosted 
#ExpressLove events that brought together local merchants, Card 
Members, prominent community members, and influencers to 
celebrate and give local LGBTQ nonprofit organizations a platform to 
share their important work. The initiative also invited consumers to 
share on social media how they #ExpressLove every day.Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices44
DELIVERING FOR OUR CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS
   THE IMPACT OF SMALL BUSINESS SATURDAY SHOP SMALL AROUND THE WORLD
U.K. 
In 2017 , over 115,000 tweets were sent about Small 
Business Saturday—reaching more than 115 million 
people7 —and consumers spent an estimated 
£7488 million at small businesses across the U.K., 
an increase of 4 percent from the previous year. In 
connection with Small Business Saturday, we also 
offered a Shop Small promotion for the entire month 
of December, which encouraged thousands of Card 
Members across the country to support their local 
high streets by providing a £5 statement credit for 
each £10 or more they spent at a participating small 
business. U.S.
In 2017 , we collaborated with a new roster of partners to 
create activities on Small Business Saturday that were 
inclusive for all. We joined with The Wing in support of 
women-owned businesses, co-hosting a pop-up bazaar. 
We brought online businesses offline, teaming up with 
Etsy to support it's holiday pop-up markets. And we 
shined a light on the local vendors that bring the San 
Francisco Museum of Ice Cream to life. Our focus was on 
reaching diverse types of small businesses, from main 
street staples like boutiques and bookstores to pop-ups 
and online stores. Shoppers across the nation responded; 
an estimated 108 million U.S. consumers opted to Shop 
Small on Small Business Saturday.1 
43%
An estimated four-in-ten 
American adults shopped 
or dined small on Small 
Business Saturday. 653  
653 city proclamations 
were issued by mayors 
and other elected 
officials—covering  
all 50 states and 
Washington, D.C.—  
in support of Small 
Business Saturday.7,200  
More than 7 ,200 
Neighborhood  
Champions across all  
50 states, Washington, 
D.C., and some U.S. 
territories rallied their 
communities, an increase 
of 7% from 2016.70%
The 2017 Small Business 
Saturday Consumer 
Insights Survey found  
that 70% of U.S. 
consumers are aware of 
Small Business Saturday.1 Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices45
DELIVERING FOR OUR CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS
Supporting women-owned business
As of 2017, there were an estimated 11.6 million women-owned businesses in the 
United States, generating nearly $1.7 trillion in revenues and employing nearly 
9 million people, according to the seventh annual State of Women-Owned Businesses report, 
commissioned by American Express. 
Women-owned businesses are growing 2.5 times faster than the national average and are 
making a significant contribution to job creation and economic growth in America. T o learn 
more, refer to The 2017 State of Women-Owned Businesses  report. 
In addition, for the last twenty years women of color have turned to entrepreneurship at an 
astounding rate, and there has been significant growth in firms owned by women of color. 
While the number of women-owned businesses grew 114 percent from 1997 to 2017 , firms 
owned by women of color grew at more than four times that rate (467 percent) .9
American Express is committed to empowering women-owned businesses by offering access 
to credit cards and loans for women entrepreneurs. On the American Express online platform 
we share stories of challenge and triumph from our women entrepreneurs with the goal of 
inspiring future generations of women. We are also committed to supporting sustainable 
ventures developed by women entrepreneurs, like the BAGGU Company, which has been 
producing lightweight, durable, and environmentally friendly shopping bags since 2007 .  
T o read more about this story and others visit the American Express Forum .
GIVE ME 5 PROGRAM
WIPP and American Express are longtime champions of women entrepreneurs in the federal 
contracting space. T ogether we created the Give Me 5 program to provide women-owned small 
businesses with access to knowledge and resources, through regular webinars, that can help 
them win federal contracts. The program and its goals remain relevant as ever.  
FIFTY FASTEST GROWING WOMEN -OWNED/LED COMPANIES
In partnership with the Women Presidents’ Organization, we supported the 10th annual  
Fifty Fastest Growing Women-Owned /Led Companies  ranking. T ogether, we are tapping 
into the experience and expertise of the Fifty Fastest honorees to help propel other women 
business leaders through their journeys of business expansion.The case for 
women-owned 
businesses is clear. 
CHALLENGEHER PROGRAM 
In April 2013, Women Impacting Public 
Policy (WIPP), American Express, and 
the U.S. Small Business Administration 
launched ChallengeHER, a national 
initiative to boost government contracting 
opportunities for women-owned small 
businesses. ChallengeHER delivers free 
workshops, mentoring, and direct access 
to government buyers.64 
workshops 
have been held 
as part of the 
ChallengeHER 
initiative.9,800  
women entrepreneurs 
have participated in 
ChallengeHER over the 
last six years.2,390
meetings have been 
facilitated between 
women-owned 
small businesses 
and government 
officials.Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices
46
CARING FOR OUR 
COMMUNITIES
We aim to make a difference by 
strengthening the communities  
in which we live and work. 
47 Introduction
48 Charitable giving
49 Serving communities
53 Developing leaders
55 Preserving placesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices
47
Caring for Our Communities
We’re here to serve our 
customers and communities. 
That means lending a hand 
when it’s needed, doing 
our part to enable the 
communities in which we 
live and work to prosper. 
We do this in three ways: providing 
leadership training that empowers 
local social-sector leaders to 
create sustainable change; helping 
citizen volunteers improve their 
communities; and preserving 
diverse, vibrant historic places.
By providing critical services that 
contribute to economic stability and 
mobility, the nonprofit sector plays a 
vital role in building a healthy society. 
Through our philanthropic and civic 
participation, we serve and empower 
the people and organizations that are 
confronting some of society’s most 
complex issues. 2017 key commitments and highlights
Strengthen the communities 
in which we operate  
We contributed $37 million to 
communities around the world  
with more than 400 grants and 
support for over 5,000 colleague-
chosen organizations through the 
Company’s gift matching program.
Our Center for Community 
Development provided $3.5 
million in grants which  went 
to 129 nonprofit community 
partners  in support of programs 
addressing homelessness and 
affordable housing, financial 
literacy, healthcare, economic 
development, and rural 
revitalization efforts.
Engage citizen volunteers
Our grants supported more than 
85 nonprofits that engaged nearly 
six million volunteers  in about 25 
million hours of service.
Empower emerging nonprofit and 
social leaders
Our grants helped train nearly 
20,000 nonprofit and social 
sector leaders  through online and 
in-person trainings.
Promote stewardship 
of historic places
Our grants helped preserve 40 
historic sites  in seven countries: 
the U.S., U.K., Argentina, Mexico, 
Canada, France, and China.Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices
CARING FOR OUR COMMUNITIES48
Charitable giving
LeadershipHistoric  
PreservationCommunity 
Service
18%31%
 31% 20 %
Employee  
Programs*Charitable giving has been at the heart of American Express since 
the 1880s, when our colleagues contributed to the fundraising 
effort to build a pedestal for the Statue of Liberty. 
In 1954, we created the American Express Foundation, a New Y ork-based 
nonprofit that supports charitable organizations. Since then, the Foundation has 
provided over half a billion dollars to thousands of causes around the world. 
We focus our charitable giving in four areas:
  Serving Communities
We enable charitable organizations to deliver mission-critical services 
by engaging community members and our colleagues as volunteers. 
We also fund immediate and long-term relief and recovery efforts to 
help victims of natural disasters.
 Developing Leaders
We develop emerging nonprofit and social purpose sector leaders who 
address society’s most complex issues and strengthen local communities.
 Preserving Places
We support organizations and projects that preserve or help people 
rediscover major historic sites while bringing economic, cultural, and 
social value to local communities.
 Sponsoring Employee Programs 
We support our colleagues in their philanthropic and personal endeavors 
through gift matching, awarding grants to nonprofits where our 
employees volunteer, and offering employee scholarships.
Our colleagues are actively engaged in all four of these areas, and we also 
support them in giving back directly. In 2017 , we contributed $37 million 
contribution to these areas.CELEBRATING DIVERSITY  
& INCLUSION
Through our philanthropic 
programs, American Express 
provides grants in support 
of a wide range of nonprofit 
organizations that share our 
values of diversity and inclusion, 
including:
Social purpose leadership 
training for ethnic diversity 
organizations , including: 
Americans for Indian 
Opportunity, Hispanics in 
Philanthropy, the Council of 
Urban Professionals Institute, 
and Leadership Education for 
Asian Pacifics. 
Leadership programs 
that focus on the needs 
of women leaders  in the 
nonprofit sector, including 
the Chicago Foundation for 
Women and She’s the First.
The annual MCON 
conference , a forum for social 
purpose practitioners about 
the critical trends and issues 
facing next-generation leaders.
The National Park 
Foundation’s Centennial 
Campaign for America’s 
National Parks  for Capturing 
LGBTQ History, a project led 
by New Y ork City’s Lesbian, 
Gay, Bisexual & T ransgender 
Community Center to 
chronicle and communicate 
the history of the Stonewall 
National Monument.
Organizations that engage 
returning military personnel  
in community volunteering 
activities, including T eam 
Rubicon, The Mission 
Continues, and Be the 
Change/Got Y our 6.
* Includes Gift Matching, Serve2Gether  Grants,  
Employee Scholarships, and Culture Card Programs .Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices
CARING FOR OUR COMMUNITIES49
ENGAGING COMMUNITY MEMBERS  
AS VOLUNTEERS
Volunteers are the heart and soul of communities. The ability 
to effectively engage volunteers can make a tremendous 
difference in nonprofit organizations’ ability to fulfill their 
mission, expand their work, amplify their profile, and grow their 
base of supporters. For community members, volunteering 
is a way to develop skills, practice leadership, build social 
networks, and enjoy a sense of purpose and connection. 
REVITALIZING NEIGHBORHOODS
In 2017 , the American Express Center for Community Development 
(CCD) provided $3.5 million in grants targeting low-to-moderate 
income individuals and underserved communities. The grants went to 
129 nonprofit community partners in support of programs addressing 
homelessness and affordable housing, financial literacy, healthcare, 
economic development, and rural revitalization efforts. 
In addition, CCD invested in the low-income housing tax credit 
program, leading to the development of over 3,300 new affordable 
housing units with a number of units targeted to special need groups 
such as the formally homeless, veterans, young adults aging out of 
foster care, and domestic violence victims.Serving communities
INVESTING IN AFFORDABLE HOUSING
In 2017 , American Express’ Center for Community Development 
provided equity financing for an affordable housing project 
located on the reservation in Pueblo of Acoma, New Mexico. The 
site consists of 30 units reserved for residents who earn 30-60 
percent of New Mexico’s annual median income.758K
youth mentored.
459
homes built or restored.
206
million meals served.
10.8K
parks and gardens beautified.2017 COMMUNITY  
SERVICE IMPACT
In 2017 , our grants supported 
more than 85 nonprofits  
that engaged nearly six million 
volunteers in about 25 million 
hours of service within local 
communities. These volunteers 
improved their communities’ 
access to such critical 
necessities as food, shelter, 
green spaces, and educational 
opportunities. Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices
CARING FOR OUR COMMUNITIES50
SUPPORTING COMMUNITIES IMPACTED BY 
DISASTER
When a natural disaster occurs, it’s all hands on deck: American Express 
assists with both immediate and long-term relief and recovery efforts. 
But we also support preparedness programs that can better equip relief 
agencies to respond to emergencies as they occur. In the last decade, 
American Express has helped the victims of 34 disasters in 32 countries 
by aiding leading disaster relief agencies such as the American Red 
Cross and International Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, Doctors 
without Borders, International Rescue Committee, Save the Children, 
and the United Nations World Food Program. In 2017 , we supported the 
disaster response efforts for five global disasters, including:
Earthquakes in Mexico: T o support disaster relief and rebuilding 
efforts, the American Express Foundation contributed a combined 
total of $250,000 to the Red Cross’ efforts in Mexico.
Hurricane Relief Efforts: We provided a total of $800,000 in  
disaster aid to assist with the immediate needs, including shelter and 
food, of hurricane victims in T exas, Louisiana, Florida, Puerto Rico, 
the U.S. Virgin Islands, and other Caribbean islands. This included a 
$500,000 grant and up to $350,000 to match employee contributions 
to the American Red Cross as well as a $200,000 grant to Feeding 
America to support food banks in Puerto Rico, Southeast T exas, and 
South Florida.
In addition to providing funds for disaster relief, we also work with 
partners to help disaster organizations recruit and engage disaster 
response volunteers.HELPING COMMUNITIES 
IMPACTED BY HURRICANES  
IN TEXAS, FLORIDA, AND  
PUERTO RICO
In partnership with Lin-Manuel 
Miranda, creator of the award-
winning Broadway musical, 
Hamilton, we supported an 
iHeartRadio campaign to spread 
the word to local communities 
impacted by Hurricanes Harvey 
and Irma that some of their 
favorite small businesses were 
once again up and running for the 
holiday season. As part of this 
partnership, we committed to 
supporting Miranda’s initiatives 
to help Puerto Rico over the next 
two years, including raising funds 
for philanthropic initiatives timed 
to the January 2019 Puerto Rico 
debut of Hamilton.
Disaster 
Relief
MentoringDonationsDays of 
Service
EnvironmentPro BonoOur colleagues don’t just work 
here, they are active members 
of their communities. We make 
it easier for them to be involved 
through three flagship programs: 
Serve2Gether, Give2Gether, and 
Green2Gether.
Whether they’re mentoring 
students, caring for the 
elderly, feeding the hungry, 
protecting the environment, 
or using professional skills to 
help nonprofits succeed, each 
year many thousands of our 
colleagues give their time,  
talent, and donations to serve 
local communities.ENABLING OUR COLLEAGUES TO BACK OUR COMMUNITIES: OUR 2GETHER PROGRAMSColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices
CARING FOR OUR COMMUNITIES51
PROMOTING VOLUNTEERING THROUGH 
SERVE2GETHER
Each year, thousands of American Express colleagues roll 
up their sleeves and join company-sponsored community 
projects. Our Serve2Gether volunteer program gives 
colleagues tools that make it easier for them to connect 
with and promote the causes they care about. 
In addition to hands-on and mentoring volunteer 
opportunities, our colleagues can use their professional 
skills to help nonprofits become more efficient and 
effective via Serve2Gether Consulting+, our pro bono 
volunteer program. Consulting+ is an online platform, 
powered by our long-time partner T aproot Foundation, 
that enables our colleagues to use their skills—writing, 
marketing, strategy, design, or research—to help 
strengthen nonprofit organizations in our communities.
We also organize an annual Serve2Gether Consulting 
Challenge to provide opportunities for colleagues to 
combine their commitment to community service 
with their business expertise. Over the course of this 
10-week program, hundreds of colleagues apply their 
expertise to projects that help our nonprofit partners 
improve their branding and messaging, implement 
new digital media strategies, deepen engagement with 
donors and volunteers, and strengthen their operations. 
At the conclusion of the program each team presents 
recommendations to address their clients’ specific 
operational challenges and gets a chance to compete 
for a share of $200,000 in seed grant funding from the 
American Express Foundation.
Finally, our Serve2Gether Grants program provides 
micro-grants of $500-$2,500 to organizations where our 
colleagues volunteer 50 or more hours within a 12-month 
period. In 2017 , the program awarded $103,000 in grants 
in recognition of nearly 3,500 hours of volunteer service 
recorded by over 500 colleagues.
70K
volunteer hours resulting  
in $3.3 million donated  
in time and talent.1014  countries
Argentina, Australia, Canada, China,  
Hong Kong, India, Italy, Japan, France, 
Mexico, Philippines, Singapore,  
U.K., and U.S.19% skills-based
volunteer activities .11  
81% hands-on
volunteer activities.122017 SERVE2GETHER IMPACT PARTNERSHIP SPOTLIGHT: POINTS OF LIGHT
Points of Light – the world’s largest organization 
dedicated to volunteer service – mobilizes millions of 
people to take action that is changing the world.  
American Express became a Points of Light partner in 
2010. Over the years, our efforts have united thousands 
of volunteers through programs such as T ravel with 
Y our Mind (helping schools in underserved areas 
through travel- and multi-cultural-themed initiatives), 
and the American Express Leadership Academy 
(offering development training to emerging social 
purpose leaders on an annual basis). Since 2013, we‘ve 
partnered with Points of Light and its local affiliates 
to organize more than 300 volunteer projects across 
15 countries. More than 7 ,000 of our colleagues have 
volunteered 25,000 hours mentoring youth, revitalizing 
and cleaning up public spaces, caring for the elderly, 
serving meals to the homeless, and much more.
INVESTING IN YOUTH MENTORING
In 2017 , we teamed up with 33 businesses to support 
the NYC Y outh Mentoring Initiative with the Good for 
Me. Good for My City Campaign to collectively recruit 
nearly 7 ,000 colleagues as high school mentors in New 
Y ork City. We also joined forces with Strive for College, 
a national nonprofit that provides underserved high 
school juniors and seniors with mentoring through the 
college admissions and financial aid application process. 
Hundreds of our colleagues signed on as mentors, 
connecting with students via an online mentoring 
program that helps them find institutions that are a great 
fit, both academically and financially. Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices
CARING FOR OUR COMMUNITIES52
ENCOURAGING GIVING THROUGH 
GIVE2GETHER
Our colleagues naturally want to give to the causes 
they care about, so we do everything we can to make it 
as easy as possible for them to do so. We match their 
contributions to nonprofits up to a maximum of $8,000 
a year. In 2017 , we matched $5.6 million in contributions.
Each fall we hold a Give2Gether campaign across our 
workplaces in the U.S., Canada, and India. 79 percent 
of U.S. colleagues participated in Give2Gether last year.  SUSTAINING THE ENVIRONMENT 
THROUGH GREEN2GETHER
Green2Gether gives colleagues another avenue for 
making a difference. Through it they can design and lead 
environmental initiatives tailored to their workplaces 
and communities. In 2017 , more than 20,000 colleagues 
participated in our Green2Gether activities during Earth 
Month—resulting in, among other things, the planting of 
over 18,000 trees. 
 
3,520
charities supported 
through Give2Gether 
campaigns in the U.S., 
Canada, and India. 
$4.6
million donated by  
colleagues in the U.S.,  
Canada, and India. 
$4.6
million matched by our 
company in the U.S.,  
Canada, and India.2017 GIVE2GETHER IMPACTColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices
CARING FOR OUR COMMUNITIES53
For over a decade, we have devoted significant resources to creating and funding 
programs that strengthen leaders within nonprofit and social purpose organizations working 
to solve the world's biggest challenges. Since 2008, we have invested nearly $70 million to 
develop more than 70,000 social purpose leaders who are tackling some of society's most 
complex issues.
TRAINING THE LEADERS OF TOMORROW: THE 
AMERICAN EXPRESS LEADERSHIP ACADEMY
Founded in 2008, the American Express Leadership Academy builds the personal, business, 
and leadership skills of emerging nonprofit leaders and social entrepreneurs through multi-day, 
in-person trainings. The initiative has grown to a global program, training world-class leaders in 
the areas of education, the arts, social services, health, the environment, and more. T o date, we 
have hosted 112 Leadership Academy programs across 11 countries, training more than 3,600 
nonprofit and social sector leaders. 
SCALING OUR IMPACT THROUGH DIGITAL LEARNING
We recognize the need to further scale our leadership programs, so in addition to our hands-on 
and partner-led Leadership Academy programs, we support two online leadership development 
platforms for social purpose leaders: Leaderosity  and +Acumen .
Acumen: Acumen, a nonprofit that seeks 
to bridge the gap between market-based 
and philanthropic approaches to social 
change, offers an online course platform 
and global learning community for social 
change leaders. +Acumen  shares unique 
leadership tools and guidance on building 
social enterprises through its free and low-
cost, globally-accessible online courses. 
The initiative trained about 9,000 leaders 
in 2017 and more than 30,000 since its 
launch in 2013.Leaderosity: Leaderosity is an online 
leadership development platform for 
social purpose leaders. Courses are 
tailored to each participant’s preference 
and pace, with added peer-to-peer 
interactions challenging participants to be 
more adaptable and collaborative leaders. 
This networking aspect gives participants 
the opportunity to build lasting local, 
national, and international relationships 
with a community of like-minded people. 
In 2017 , Leaderosity trained more than 
300 leaders.Developing leaders
We work hard to 
attract, develop, 
and retain top 
talent to build our 
leadership pipeline. 
This commitment 
to identifying and 
developing leaders 
extends to our 
communities.
$10.5M
total value  
of grants .690+ 
emerging social 
purpose leaders 
trained through 20 
American Express 
Leadership Academy 
programs with 
11 Academy partners.9 countries
U.S., U.K., Japan, 
Mexico, China, 
Senegal, Kenya, 
Singapore, and 
Germany.nearly 20K  
nonprofit and social section 
leaders trained through 
the American Express 
Leadership Academy 
and other in-person or 
online trainings through 
our partners, including 
+Acumen and Leaderosity.  2017 SOCIAL PURPOSE 
LEADERSHIP GRANT IMPACTColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices
CARING FOR OUR COMMUNITIES54
CONTINUING THE LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT 
JOURNEY THROUGH NETWORKING PLATFORMS
Leaders have much to learn from each other and, for 
true leaders, the learning never ends. Once emerging 
leaders have completed our programs, we maintain our 
relationship with them and provide them with resources 
to build and maintain relationships with each other: 
We offer ongoing alumni engagement and leadership 
opportunities through the American Express 
Leadership Academy LinkedIn group.
We hosted our third annual American Express 
Leadership Academy Global Alumni Summit in 2017 .
We continue to support Leaderstories.org, a 
storytelling platform for Academy participants and 
other leaders. The platform features stories, key 
resources, and insights on leadership from innovators 
and experts. The stories inspire, inform, and connect 
emerging leaders across the nonprofit sector. ENABLING NONPROFITS TO 
MAINTAIN THEIR OWN LEADERSHIP 
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
In 2017 we made over 100 grants to nonprofit 
organizations to create, develop, expand, or maintain 
their own leadership development programs for high-
potential, emerging leaders. Nearly 6,000 leaders were 
trained as a result of grants to organizations as diverse 
as Echoing Green (New Y ork, NY), Hispanic Alliance for 
Career Enhancement (Chicago, IL), Opera America (New 
Y ork, NY), Leadership Education for Asian Pacifics (Los 
Angeles, CA), New Strategies at Georgetown University 
(Washington, D.C.), and Public Allies (Milwaukee, WI). 
American Express’ 
Annual Leadership 
Academy Alumni 
Summit In April 2017, we hosted our third annual Leadership Academy Alumni 
Summit in New Y ork in partnership with Atlas Service Corps. The 
summit celebrated the accomplishments of 51 program participants and 
provided them with two days of leadership development training, as well as 
an opportunity to network with alumni and Academy partners from around 
the world. Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices
CARING FOR OUR COMMUNITIES55
We understand the cultural and economic 
value they bring to communities  and 
are committed to backing the continuing 
stewardship of these sites to ensure they can 
be experienced and enjoyed by generations 
to come. 
We support projects that help communities 
preserve or rediscover major historic 
landmarks and public spaces, providing 
sustainable, ongoing access to the public, 
now and in the future. Our emphasis is on 
sites that represent diverse cultures and 
engage the public in unique ways.
Since 1974, we have contributed over $65 
million in support of historic preservation 
efforts around the world. Our funding has 
preserved more than 600 sites, from the 
Statue of Liberty in New Y ork to the Louvre 
in Paris. 
SAVING THE WORLD’S MOST 
TREASURED PLACES
We are the founding sponsor of World 
Monuments Watch , which draws attention 
to cultural heritage sites around the world 
threatened by neglect, vandalism, armed 
conflict, commercial development, natural 
disasters, and climate change. In its over 
50 years of vital action, World Monuments 
Watch has implemented over 600 projects in 
90 countries. The World Monuments Fund’s 
2018 Monuments Watch includes 25 sites 
spanning 30 countries.RESTORING AMERICA'S 
HISTORIC LANDMARKS 
AND COMMUNITIES
The National T rust for Historic Preservation 
is a nonprofit organization dedicated 
to protecting and restoring America's 
historic landmarks and communities. 
More than a decade ago, we joined forces 
with the National T rust to form Partners in 
Preservation. This initiative helps preserve 
historic sites in the U.S. both directly and 
by inspiring local citizens to get involved 
with the historic places at the heart of their 
communities. 
Since 2006, we have committed more than 
$20 million dollars to the effort, supporting 
close to 200 historic sites in San Francisco, 
Chicago, New Orleans, Boston, Seattle, the 
T win Cities, New Y ork, and Washington, D.C. 
Our latest effort was Partners in 
Preservation: Main Streets , a community-
based campaign to raise awareness about 
the importance of preserving America's main 
street districts. In 2017 , 25 historic districts 
competed in an on-line popular vote. The 
11 winning main street sites received a total 
of $1.5 million in grants to help fund their 
preservation projects. Additionally, every site 
that competed received a $20,000 grant 
at the outset of the campaign to help raise 
awareness about their preservation needs, 
bringing the total to $2 million in grants.American Express 
has deep roots in the 
travel services industry, 
stretching all the way 
back to World War I. 
That’s why we feel so 
connected to historic 
sites around the world. 
2017 HISTORIC PRESERVATION  
GRANT IMPACT
 
$6.2M
total value  
of grants . 
40
historic sites 
preserved . 
7 countries
U.S., U.K., Argentina, 
France, China, 
Mexico, and Canada.Preserving PlacesColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices
56
MANAGING OUR 
OPERATIONS 
RESPONSIBLY
We recognize our responsibility 
to help preserve natural 
resources for future generations 
and support ethical business 
practices around the globe.
57 Introduction
58 Reducing our carbon emissions
60 Investing in sustainable workplaces
62 Commitment to sustainable products, 
responsible sourcing, and supplier diversity
63 Partnering with our colleagues
65 Managing our environmental performanceColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices
57
Managing Our Operations Responsibly
We know that one of the most 
significant ways we can serve 
our stakeholders is to do our 
part to protect and sustain  
the environment. 
Our environmental impact stems 
primarily from the energy use and 
related greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions associated with our global 
real estate, which includes our 
corporate buildings and data centers. 
Employee air travel, paper procurement 
and waste have an additional impact. 
We address these impacts by working 
to reduce our energy use and GHG 
emissions, purchasing sustainably 
certified paper, and responsibly 
disposing of our key waste streams. 
Responsible management of our 
operations also means working to 
ensure our suppliers are as diverse as 
the customers we serve, and that the 
commodities and services we source 
are environmentally sound and socially 
responsible. 
2017 AWARDS
EPA Green Power: T op User of 
Sustainable Energy (since 2014)
Newsweek Green Ranking: Top U.S. 
Green Companies (since 2011) 2017 key commitments and highlights
 Reduce our environmental footprint  
Since 2011, we have  reduced our 
carbon footprint  for scope 1 and 2 
by 50 percent. 2 
We achieved carbon neutrality  
for our employee business travel  
emissions (third party air, rail, and 
rental cars) through carbon offsets.
Since 2011, we have reduced 
our energy consumption by 24 
percent  through energy efficiency 
projects and real estate space 
optimization.3
Over 45 percent of our global real 
estate portfolio was  green-building 
certified.4 
We purchased over 160,000 MWH 
of renewable energy certificates 
(RECs) and achieved 100 percent 
carbon free electricity for U.S. 
data centers and our global 
headquarters.  
 Commit to responsible sourcing
Of the paper used in our U.S.  
direct marketing efforts in 2017 ,   
98 percent was certified as  
being from sustainably  
managed forests.
 Engage our colleagues 
in sustainability
More than 20,000 colleagues 
participated  in our Earth Month 
activities.
We provided over $3.9 million  
in support of the environment 
and wildlife  through the Gift 
Matching and Serve2Gether  
grant programs.Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices
MANAGING OUR OPERATIONS RESPONSIBLY58
Last year, we 
committed to 
achieving science-
based targets for 
absolute, aggregate 
reductions in 
greenhouse gas 
emissions. These 
new targets were 
set based on 
recommendations by 
the Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate 
Change that global 
absolute emissions be 
reduced 80 percent 
below 1990 levels by 
2050, in order to avoid 
the most significant 
effects of climate 
change.Reducing our carbon emissions
We aim to minimize the effects our operations have on the physical 
environment and our climate. T o that end, we have had a long-standing focus 
on increasing energy efficiency, promoting renewable energy, and reducing 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.
American Express Environmental Targets 2017  Progress
Green 
Building 
Certification40% of our global real estate portfolio 
to be certified under a green building 
standard by 2018.Surpassed:  
over 45% 4
GHG 
Emissions100% of our employee business travel 
emissions (third party air, rail, and rental 
cars) to be carbon neutral by 2020.Achieved 
31% reduction of GHG emissions for 
scope 1 & 2 from 2011 baseline by 2021.Achieved  
85% reduction of GHG emissions for 
scope 1 & 2 from 2011 baseline by 2040.50%  2 
Renewable 
Energy100% of electricity procured from 
renewable energy sources for our 
U.S. data centers and our global 
headquarters by 2021.Achieved  
100% of electricity procured from 
renewable energy sources for our U.S. 
operations by 2040.88%
Energy 
Efficiency25% increase in energy efficiency for 
our facilities from 2011 to 2018.Surpassed:  
27%  13   Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices
MANAGING OUR OPERATIONS RESPONSIBLY59
AMERICAN EXPRESS CARBON FOOTPRINT 2
Our carbon footprint is comprised of the electricity we 
use to power our offices and data centers (purchased 
energy); the fuel we use for freight (mobile) and 
colleague business travel by air, rail, and car; and the 
diesel and natural gas we burn to heat our facilities and 
power back-up generators (stationary combustion). 
In keeping with international best practice for 
transparently reporting climate-related impacts, we 
have submitted data to the CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) every year since 2007 . We follow 
the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance for measuring and 
reporting both market-based and location-based scope 
2 GHG emissions14, and we also report on scope 3 CO2e 
emissions from colleague business travel. In 2017 , we 
received a score of A- on our climate change impact 
reporting. Please refer to page 65  for a detailed overview 
of our environmental data.
 5%
Stationary  
Combustion70%
Purchased  
Energy 3%
Fugitive1522%
Mobile
ZERO NET EMISSIONS
We achieved carbon neutrality for our employee 
business travel emissions (third-party air, rail, and 
rental cars) by supporting a carbon offset project 
to preserve Chile’s native Valdivian forests through 
The Nature Conservancy. With more than half of 
the world’s temperate rainforests gone, the 50,251 
hectare (124,173 acre) Valdivian Coastal Reserve 
is one of the largest of these areas remaining on 
Earth. By retiring carbon credits generated from the 
Valdivian Coastal Reserve Project verified under the 
Verified Carbon Standard, we were able to offset our 
carbon footprint and contribute to the protection of 
this ancient temperate rainforest.79,435
Mt CO2eColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices
MANAGING OUR OPERATIONS RESPONSIBLY60
A safe, healthy, and efficient work environment is vital to our colleagues 
and our business. We strive to design, build, and operate facilities that 
consume fewer resources and emit lower levels of greenhouse gases, while 
improving indoor environmental quality and colleague well-being.
OPTIMIZING SPACE AND ENERGY USAGE 
AND PURCHASING GREEN POWER
Optimizing energy use and purchasing renewable energy have played an essential role in our 
journey to becoming a more sustainable workplace. In 2017 , we purchased over 160,000 MWh 
of renewable energy certificates (RECs).
Our U.S. data centers are green building and ISO 14001-2004, ISO 9001-2008 certified, 
employing best-in-class environmental and quality management systems. They offset 100 
percent of their electricity consumption through the combined purchase of RECs and on-site 
generation of solar power.
Our company workspace program, BlueWork, employs sustainable furniture and construction 
materials based on the US Green Building Council’s LEED Certification rating systems. 
Workspace allocation guidelines coupled with remote work capabilities optimize the use of 
real estate while offering greater flexibility. Giving colleagues more control over where and 
when they work reduces reliance on building resources, including waste removal, water usage, 
and energy consumption. We further support colleagues with virtual workplace tools and 
technologies, and electronics that adhere to energy efficiency standards. Investing in sustainable workplaces
2017 HIGHLIGHTS  
21%
reduction in paper 
compared to 2016.9% 
reduction in waste 
generation compared 
to 2016.1612%
water reduction 
compared to 2016.1743% 
of our waste was diverted  
from landfills through  
recycling or composting.16Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices
MANAGING OUR OPERATIONS RESPONSIBLY61
PUTTING SUSTAINABILITY ON THE MENU
Our New Y ork, NY and Sunrise, FL Healthy Living Cafés received two star 
Green Restaurant Association certifications in 2017 , as a recognition of 
efforts to reduce waste and serve food from sustainable sources. Other 
food services initiatives include:
Building our newly opened 
Sunrise location’s Healthy 
Living Café with Energy Star 
rated equipment.
Serving sustainable seafood in 
our cafeterias across the U.S. 
Planting a 2,500 square foot 
edible garden, which serves as 
a true farm-to-table source of 
fruit, vegetables, and herbs for 
the Sunrise Healthy Living Café 
and Catering. 
Piloting a hydroponic growing 
system in our headquarters 
to grow fresh and nutritious 
produce on-site. 
Encouraging the use of 
reusable dinnerware and mugs; 
using tree-free napkins in our 
cafeterias across the U.S.Phasing out plastic water 
bottles with a water filtration 
system for our catering events 
in our New Y ork, Sunrise, and 
Phoenix locations. This change 
can divert an estimated 9,000 
bottles in a year.
Installing aerobic food 
digesters at our headquarters 
to turn food waste into water. 
One machine can eliminate 
50 pounds of waste per hour 
depending on the food-waste 
composition.REDUCING WASTE, WATER, 
AND CHEMICALS
Paper and decommissioned 
technology products are primary 
types of waste for financial services 
companies. T o manage our waste, 
we encourage colleagues to reduce 
the amount of paper they use 
and recycle printed materials. We 
follow industry best practices for 
recycling our technology waste 
by using an ISO 140001-certified 
recycler that safely and responsibly 
recycles IT products at our offices 
worldwide. 
Although water use is generally 
not a significant aspect of our 
operations, we have put water-
reduction measures into place at 
key offices, and we prioritize the 
use of green cleaning products. Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices
MANAGING OUR OPERATIONS RESPONSIBLY62
PROVIDING SUSTAINABLE SERVICES
Customers increasingly expect to see sustainable practices from the companies they do 
business with. That’s why our approach to managing our environmental impact extends to 
how our products and services are delivered to, and used by, our customers. 
We offer a variety of convenient, sustainable options to help customers reduce their personal 
environmental footprint, such as:
Online alternatives to traditional paper-based documents
Account information and documents stored virtually in data centers where 100 percent of 
the electricity is offset by renewable energy 
T ools to reduce customer travel carbon footprintCommitment to sustainable products, 
responsible sourcing, and supplier diversity
PARTNERSHIP TO REDUCE PLASTIC IN OUR PRODUCTS AND OPERATIONS
In an effort to combat marine plastic pollution, we began collaborating with Parley for the 
Oceans in the beginning of 2018 to raise awareness of this issue and launch the first-ever 
American Express Card manufactured primarily from recovered plastic found in the oceans. 
The Card is currently a prototype and will be tested and refined over time. In addition, we 
are committing to reduce single-use plastic within our operations globally. We will evolve 
our operations to embody Parley’s AIR (Avoid, Intercept, Redesign) philosophy through a 
corporate pledge to limit single-use plastics, intercept plastic waste, and redesign existing 
materials and plastic products. We have already eliminated plastic straws and stirrers for  
all our major offices and The Centurion® airport lounges.
98%
of paper used in our U.S.  
 direct-marketing area was  
certified from sustainably  
managed forests.53% 
of Card Member statements  
were paperless.18 90%
of Card Member payments  
were electronic.192017 HIGHLIGHTSColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices
MANAGING OUR OPERATIONS RESPONSIBLY63
ENGAGING  
COLLEAGUES 
IN 201720K+
colleagues participated  
in our Earth Month activities.$3.9M
provided in support of the environment 
and wildlife through our Gift Matching and 
Serve2Gether grant programs.PARTNERING WITH OUR COLLEAGUES
Our colleagues are critical to our environmental 
sustainability initiatives. We partner with them to make 
our facilities and communities more climate-friendly 
through everyday work practices, volunteer-led Green 
T eams, and environmental events such as Earth Week 
and Earth Hour. 
Through our Green2Gether teams, colleagues design and 
lead environmental initiatives tailored to their workplaces 
and local communities. Events such as recycling drives, 
lectures, and awareness campaigns give sustainability-
minded colleagues the opportunity to enhance their 
professional and personal development while making a 
vital contribution to reducing our environmental footprint. 
REDUCING THE ENVIRONMENTAL 
IMPACTS OF BUSINESS TRAVEL AND 
EMPLOYEE COMMUTING
Business T ravel: We encourage colleagues to use video 
and web conferencing technologies rather than traveling, 
whenever possible. When travel is unavoidable, we ask 
colleagues to group trips together to manage costs and 
reduce the number of trips taken, and we offer colleagues 
the option of train travel whenever it is a feasible alternative. 
Commuting: Many of our offices are centrally located 
near public transportation, which reduces the need for colleagues to drive to work. In the U.S., we offer benefits 
that enable commuters to use pre-tax dollars to cover 
the cost of commuting by subway, bus, train, ferry, and 
vanpool. We also offer bike storage and bike racks at a 
number of facilities. For our rural and suburban locations, 
such as those in Phoenix, T oronto, and Rome, shuttle and 
carpooling services are available as a cost-effective and 
sustainable alternative to personal vehicles.  With the 
proliferation of electric vehicles, car charging stations 
have been installed at our global headquarters in New 
Y ork. In India, our door-to-door transportation services 
support thousands of colleagues daily, and we have 
already started phasing out diesel-operated vehicles to 
stay ahead of the upcoming local air quality regulations.
MANAGING THIRD -PARTY 
RELATIONSHIPS
We take a comprehensive approach to managing third-
party relationships throughout their entire lifecycle to 
ensure we are complying with regulatory requirements. 
Any new, modified, and renewed engagements 
considered high risk undergo rigorous risk assessment 
and due diligence. Colleagues must also regularly 
evaluate third parties they work with to ensure they are 
meeting relationship, compliance, and risk expectations.
Additionally, we regularly source environmentally 
preferable and socially responsible commodities and 
services from approved third-party vendors.Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices
MANAGING OUR OPERATIONS RESPONSIBLY64
ENSURING SUPPLIER DIVERSITY
Winning strategies, products, and services require diversity of thought, 
perspective, and contribution. We are committed to inclusion across 
our organization, including among the third parties with whom we do 
business.
As part of our Supply Chain Inclusion Initiative , we monitor our annual 
spend with suppliers that are certified business enterprises with 
protected-class owners and operators, including:
Minority Business Enterprises
Women-Owned Business Enterprises
Small Business Enterprises / 8(a) / HUBZone-certified firms
LGBTQ-owned firms
Disadvantaged or Disability-Owned Business
Veteran-Owned Business Enterprises 
$2.3M
We increased our Minority 
and Women-Owned Business 
Enterprises (MWBE) spend, 
spending directly and 
indirectly an additional $2.3 
million for food and food 
services in the U.S. in 2017 
compared to 2016.
We support human rights in our supply chain and are committed to working with 
suppliers who share our values. All third parties—including suppliers—that provide 
us with goods or services are required to conduct business in accordance with all 
applicable laws, rules, and regulations, in addition to adhering to our standards of 
integrity, transparency, and ethics. We enforce this through our Blue Box Shared 
Values documentation , our Human Rights statement , and our U.K. Modern Slavery 
Act Transparency Statement .2017 HIGHLIGHTSColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
 Responsible 
Business Practices
MANAGING OUR OPERATIONS RESPONSIBLY65
Managing our environmental performance20 
UNIT21 2014 2015 2016 2017
Employee headcount FTE 54,000 54,800 56,400 55,000
Annual revenue $US (millions) 34,188 32,818 32,119 33,471
Building square footage22 ft2 9,668,145 9,109,237 8,885,680 8,924,040
Green building certified square footage4ft2 2,889,990 3,189,113 4,103,345 4,076,962
GLOBAL GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
Scope 1 (direct)
Stationary combustion MtCO2e 7,6 67 4,657 4,069 3,783
Mobile combustion MtCO2e 25,535 19,949 18,729 1 7,7 5 2
Fugitive MtCO2e 2,301 2,746 2,640 2,627
T otal scope 1 MtCO2e 35,503 27 ,352 25,438 24,162
Scope 2 (indirect)
Purchased electricity MtCO2e 105,192 95,476 56,238 52,145
District heating MtCO2e 1,991 2,160 1,706 1,964
District cooling MtCO2e 167 816 1,171 1,164
T otal scope 22 MtCO2e 107 ,350 98,452 59,115 55,273
Scope 3
Business rental cars MtCO2e 789 781 613 474
Business air travel MtCO2e 32,628 42,176 3 7,6 14 33,622
Business rail travel MtCO2e 170 134 138 128
Purchased GHG Emission Offsets MtCO2e 35,000
T otal scope 3 MtCO2e 33,587 43,092 38,364 0
T otal Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions MtCO2e 176,440 168,895 122,917 79,435
RENEWABLE ENERGY CREDITS (RECS)
RECs purchased MWh 114,117 173,98023150,00024160,66325
GLOBAL ENERGY USAGE26
Electricity MWh 301,250 267 ,206 255,964 259,323
Steam MWh 8,789 9,533 7 ,531 8,672
Chilled water MWh 2,546 10,969 14,063 14,728
Natural gas MWh 39,594 22,025 17 ,440 17 ,615
Diesel MWh 1,940 2,626 3,588 2,333
Gasoline MWh 70,937 60,367 54,456 51,050
Jet fuel MWh 30,684 21,850 22,658 22,023
T otal MWh 455,740 394,576 375,701 375,744
GLOBAL WATER USAGE17 
Water m3 681,846 665,427 601,662 531,838
GLOBAL WASTE16 
Waste generated Mt 4,961 3,839 3,300 3,003
Waste recycled Mt 1,818 1,485 1,409 1,296
PAPER USE
U.S. direct mail Lbs. 131,545,596 110,922,327 109,037 ,128 76,596,158
Percent U.S. direct mail from certified from 
sustainable sources91% 91% 97% 98%
Copy paper pages printed globally 136,914,826 121,522,510 106,221,667 83,410,737
CDP
Climate change survey score 95B B  A-27 
ENVIRONMENTAL VIOLATIONS
Environmental violations 0 0 0 0Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
ENDNOTES66
Responsible 
Business Practices1. The Small Business Saturday Consumer Insights Survey was 
conducted by T eneo among a nationally representative sample of  
2,160 U.S. adults 18 years of age or older. The sample was collected 
using an email invitation and an online survey. The study gathered 
self-reported data and does not reflect actual receipts or sales. It was 
conducted anonymously on November 26, 2017 . The survey has an 
overall margin of error of +/- 2.1%, at the 95% level of confidence. 
Projections are based on current U.S. Census estimates of the U.S. 
adult population, age 18 years and over. The survey was commissioned 
by American Express and the National Federation of Independent 
Businesses (NFIB).
2. Based on Scope 2 GHG emissions calculated using the 2015 
market-based carbon accounting methodology.
3. Energy efficiency is measured by the total kilowatt hours of energy 
consumed annually, reported in our annual Greenhouse Gas (GHG) 
Inventory. For most of our buildings, we receive metered utility billing 
data. This data allows us to empirically calculate consumption over 
time. For locations for which we do not receive metered utility billing 
data, we estimate consumption. This estimate is based on our GHG 
Inventory’s standard Electricity Estimation and is in accordance with 
the GHG Protocol’s CBECS 2003, Midwest Office Factor.
4. Green building certified square footage is total square footage of 
leased or owned facilities actively occupied by American Express 
(excluding parking lot square footage) certified under a global or 
locally recognized third-party environmental building rating system 
as meeting their performance criteria (LEED, BREEAM, NABERS, 
GreenMark, and Energy Star).
5. T elepresence is a video collaboration tool that offers a realistic 
“in-person” experience through full, high-definition video and audio. 
It allows individuals to engage and collaborate virtually anytime, 
anywhere, and across multiple platforms.
6. As determined by an analysis conducted by American Express 
Global Corporate Payments using 2017 FORTUNE Global 500 
statistics of Licensee’s customers. From FORTUNE, August © 2017 
Time Inc. Used under license. FORTUNE and Time Inc. are not affiliated 
with, and do not endorse products or services of, Licensee. Claim not 
confirmed by FORTUNE or Time Inc. FORTUNE and FORTUNE Global 
500 are registered trademarks of Time Inc. and are used under license.
7 . Small is Big, an independent company that runs Small Business 
Saturday in the U.K., used T witter tracking from Union Metrics and 
tracked all engagement across the campaign, including the handle 
@smallbizsatuk, the hashtag #smallbizsatuk, and the phrase Small 
Business Saturday.
8. The Small Business Saturday Consumer Insights Survey was 
conducted in the U.K. among a nationally representative sample of 
3,612 males and females 18 years of age or older. The sample was 
collected using an email invitation and an online survey. The study 
gathered self-reported data and does not reflect actual receipt or  
sales. It was conducted anonymously on December 2 and 3, 2017 .  
The survey has an overall margin of error of +/- 2.2%, at the 95% level 
of confidence.
9. The 2017 State of Women-Owned Businesses Report, 
commissioned by American Express, is based on data from the  
United States Census Bureau Survey of Business Owners (SBO),  
which is conducted every five years in years ending in 2 and 7 . Data 
from the 1997 and 2012 Census surveys were collated, analyzed,  
and extrapolated forward to 2017 , factoring in relative changes in  
Gross Domestic Product (GDP) not only nationally but also at industry,  
state, and metropolitan statistical area levels. All GDP data were 
obtained from the Bureau of Economic Analysis.
10. According to T aproot Foundation, services donated by business 
professionals are valued at $150 per hour compared to $24.69 for 
more traditional volunteering which is the estimated value of volunteer 
time, as per the 2017 Bureau of Labor Statistic data.11. Pro bono or skills-based volunteering/service: Employee 
volunteering that uses professional skills in service to a community 
partner. This can include, but is not limited to, the donation of  
services such as accounting, marketing, finance, graphic design,  
and information technology.
12. Hands on volunteering (also known as traditional and extra hands 
volunteering): Employee volunteering that does not involve applying 
the employee’s workplace skills.
13. Measurement is based on facilities where metered data is available.
14. According to the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance, a location-based 
method reflects the average emissions intensity of grids on which 
energy consumption occurs (using mostly grid-average emission 
factor data). A market-based method reflects emissions from 
electricity that companies have purposefully chosen (or their lack of 
choice). It derives emission factors from contractual instruments, 
which include any time of contract between two parties for the sale 
and purchase of energy bundled with attributes about the energy 
generation, or for unbundled attribute claims. Unless otherwise 
indicated, the Scope 2 GHG emissions disclosed in this report are 
market-based.
15. In their guidance, “Greenhouse Gas Inventory Guidance Direct 
Fugitive Emissions from Refrigeration, Air Conditioning, Fire 
Suppression, and Industrial Gases, ” the EPA defines these fugitive 
emissions as those that “result from the direct release to the 
atmosphere of GHG compounds from various types of equipment 
and processes… that are common for organizations in many sectors: 
refrigeration and air conditioning systems, fire suppression systems, 
and the purchase and release of industrial gases. ” 
16. Waste/recycling generation reported only for facilities where 
waste/recycling hauling data is currently available. Reported waste 
for 2017 represents approximately 63 percent of our global managed 
real estate footprint. Currently no estimates are available for other 
facilities.
17 . Water usage reported only for facilities where metered data is 
available. Reported water for 2017 represents approximately 77 
percent of our global managed real estate footprint. Currently no 
estimates are available for other facilities.
18. Includes Global Consumer, Global Small Business, and US 
Corporate Card Members.
19. “Electronic” includes payment received via phone, online, Auto Pay, 
third party remits, and wire transfers.
20. GHG emissions and other environmental information reported  
in this table represents data for entities under operational control  
of the Company. The definition of operational control is consistent 
with that used by the GHG Protocol; a company has operational 
control over an operation if the former or one of its subsidiaries has 
the full authority to introduce and implement its operating policies  
at the operation.
21. FTE: Full-time Equivalent; ft2: Square Footage; MtCO2e: Metric 
T ons of Carbon Dioxide Equivalent; MWh: Megawatt Hours; m3: Cubic 
Meters; Mt: Metric T ons; Lbs.: Pound Weight.
22. Building square footage includes all leased and owned facilities 
actively occupied by American Express, excluding parking lot square 
footage, including facilities managed centrally by the American 
Express Global Real Estate & Workplace Experience T eam (global 
managed real estate footprint), by individual business units and the 
Data Center Infrastructure team.
23. 78,980 MWh’s of the RECs purchased were applied to the 2015 
scope 2 market-based emissions resulting in 36,101 tCO2e emissions 
reduction.Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersCommunities Operations Index
 Introduction
ENDNOTES67
Responsible 
Business Practices24. 150,000 MWh’s of the RECs purchased were applied to the 2016 scope 
2 market-based emissions resulting in 71,531 tCO2e emissions reduction.
25. 160,663 MWh’s of the RECs purchased were applied to the 2017 scope 
2 market-based emissions resulting in 68,256 tCO2e emissions reduction.
26. Energy usage based on combination of metered energy consumption 
billing data and estimated energy consumption data based on energy 
intensity per square footage standards outlined in the GHG Protocol, 
where metered data is not currently available.
27 . Data not available for the periods indicated.68
Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. 
Health, Safety and Environmental Services  
1940 East Deere Avenue, Suite 210  
Santa Ana, CA 92705  Main : (714) 431.4100  
Fax :   (714) 825.0685 
www.BureauVeritasHSE.com  
VERIFICATION STATEMENT 
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. (BVNA) was engaged to conduct an independent verification of the greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions reported by American Express for the ca lendar year (CY) 2017.  This Verification Statement 
applies to the related information included within the scope of work described below.  
The determination of the GHG emissions is the sole responsi bility of American Express.  BVNA’s sole responsibility 
was to provide independent verification on the accuracy  of the GHG emissions repor ted, and on the underlying 
systems and processes used to collect, analyze and review the information.  
Boundaries of the reporting company GHG emissions covered by the verification: 
 Operational Control  
 Worldwide  
 Exclusions: None  
Emissions data verified: 
American Express Entity Wide GHG Emissions for CY 2017 
Scope 1 Emissions 
24,162 metric tons (mt) of CO 2 equivalent (CO 2e)
Scope 2 Emissions – Location Based 
119,932 mtCO 2eScope 2 Emissions – Market Based 
55,273 mt CO 2e
Scope 3 Emissions 
Category 6 – Business Travel  34,224 mt CO 2e
GHG Emission Offsets Applied to CY 2017 Sc ope 3 Emissions and Net Scope 3 Emissions
Purchased GHG Emission Offsets   35,000 mt CO 2e
Net Scope 3 Emissions, Category 6 – Business 
Travel 0 mt CO 2e69
American Express Page 2 
August 6, 2018 
Data and information supporting the Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions assertion were in some cases 
estimated rather than historical in nature.  
Data and information supporting the Scope 3 GHG emissi ons assertion were in some  cases estimated rather 
than historical in nature. 
Period covered by GHG emissions verification: 
 Calendar Year 2017 – January 1 to December 31, 2017 
GHG Reporting Protocols against which verification was conducted: 
 World Resources Institute (WRI)/World Busine ss Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) 
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol, Corporate Account ing and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition (Scope 1 
and 2) and the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance, an amendment  to the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard. 
 WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3)  Accounting and Reporting 
Standard.  
GHG Verification Protocols used to conduct the verification: 
 ISO 14064-3: Greenhouse gases -- Part 3: Specification with guidance for the validation and verification of 
greenhouse gas assertions 
Level of Assurance and Qualifications :
 Limited 
 Materiality Threshold ±5% 
 Qualifications:  None 
GHG Verification Methodology: 
 Interviews with relevant personnel of American Express and their consultant;  
 Review of documentary evidence pr oduced by American Express;  
 Review of American Express data and information systems and methodology for collection, aggregation, 
analysis and review of information used to determine GHG emissions at American Express’s New York City 
headquarters office;  
 Audit of samples of data used by American Express to determine GHG emissions. 
Assurance Opinion:
Based on the process and procedures co nducted, there is no evidence that  the GHG emissions assertion shown 
above: 
 is not materially correct; 
 is not a fair representation of t he GHG emissions data and information; and 
 has not been prepared in accordance with the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and 
Reporting Standard .
It is our opinion that American Express has established appropriate systems fo r the collection, aggregation and 
analysis of quantitative data for determination of t hese GHG emissions for the stated period and boundaries. 70
American Express Page 3 
August 6, 2018 
Statement of independence, impartiality and competence 
The Bureau Veritas Group is an independent professional se rvices company that specializes in Quality, Health, 
Safety, Social and Environmental management with over  185 years history in providing independent assurance 
services.
No member of the verification team has a business relationship with American Express, its Directors or Managers 
beyond that required of this assignment.  We conducted th is verification independently and to our knowledge there 
has been no conflict of interest.  
The Bureau Veritas Group has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to maintain high ethical standards 
among staff in their day-to-day business activities.   
The verification team has extensive experience in condu cting assurance over environmental, social, ethical and 
health and safety information, systems and processes, has ov er 20 years combined experience in this field and an 
excellent understanding of The Bureau Veritas Group sta ndard methodology for the verification of greenhouse gas 
emissions data.  
Attestation: 
David Reilly, Lead Verifier     Trevor Donaghu, Technical Reviewer 
Senior Project Manager      Technical Director, Climate Change Services  
Bureau Veritas North Americ a, Inc.    Bureau Veri tas North America, Inc. 
Santa Ana, California      San Ramon, California  
August 6, 2018 
This verification statement, including the opinion expressed herein, is provided to American Express and is solely for the bene fit of 
American Express in accordance with the terms of our agreement. We consent to the release of this statement by you to the CDP i n
order to satisfy the terms of CDP disclosure requirements but without accepting or assuming any responsibility or liability on our part 
to CDP or to any other party who may have access to this statement. 
Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersIndex
 Introduction Communities Operations
 Responsible 
Business Practices
71
INDEX
GRI Content Index
This report responds to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards reporting guidelines. The table below shows 
where you can find the information required for each Standard Disclosure. While most information is found in this report, 
other primary sources include: our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K, 2018 Proxy Statement, 2018 Carbon Disclosure Project 
submission, and our corporate website.
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES
Disclosure No. Disclosure Title Report Section or Other Documentation Page No.
gri 102: general disclosures
102-1 Name of organization American Express Company
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services About American Express, Company Profile,  
Form 10-K, Item 14
102-3 Location of headquarters 200 Vesey Street  
New Y ork, NY 10281
102-4 Location of operations About American Express, Company Profile 4
102-5 Ownership and legal form Annual Report (page 1)
102-6 Markets served About American Express, Company Profile,  
Form 10-K, Item 14
102-7 Scale of organization About American Express, Company Profile 4
102-8 Information on employees and other workers About American Express, Company Profile, Serving Our 
Colleagues, Our Global Diversity and Inclusion Strategy4, 26
102-10 Significant changes to the organization 
and its supply chainAnnual Report (pages 1-3)
102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Promoting Responsible Business Practices, Risk 
Management and Security21
102-12 External initiatives How We Approach CSR, American Express and the UN 
SDGs, Promoting Responsible Business Practices, 
Advocacy and Membership in Key Organizations 11, 23
102-13 Memberships of associations Promoting Responsible Business Practices, Business 
Ethics, Policies and Procedures, Policy Engagement and 
Political Activity  23
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO Letter 3
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Annual Report (pages 11-31) , How We Approach CSR,  
Engaging with Stakeholders, Identifying Key 
Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues9, 10
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Promoting Responsible Business Practices, Business 
Ethics17
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Promoting Responsible Business Practices, Business 
Ethics, Reporting Concerns17, 18
102-18 Governance structure How We Approach CSR, Promoting Responsible Business 
Practices, Proxy (pages 10-23, 41)8, 16
102-19 Delegating authority How We Approach CSR, Our CSR Governance Structure 14Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersIndex
 Introduction Communities Operations
 Responsible 
Business Practices
INDEX72
Disclosure No. Disclosure Title Report Section or Other Documentation Page No.
102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, 
environmental, and social topicsHow We Approach CSR, CDP Submission 8
102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, 
environmental and social impactsHow We Approach CSR, Engaging with Our Stakeholders,  
Identifying Key Environmental, Social, and Governance 
(ESG) Issues9, 10
102-22 Composition of the highest governance 
body and its committeesProxy (pages 10 -22)
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Proxy (page 15)
102-24 Nominating and selecting the 
highest governance bodyProxy (pages 10, 21)
102-25 Conflicts of interest Proxy (pages 30, 71)
102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting 
purpose, values, and strategyHow We Approach CSR, Proxy (pages 10-23, 41) 8
102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Proxy (Public Responsibility Committee, page 35)
102-29 Identifying and managing economic, 
environmental, and social impactsCDP Submission
102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Proxy (pages 23-26)
102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Proxy (Public Responsibility Committee, page 35)
CDP Submission
102-33 Communicating critical concerns Code of Conduct (pages 4-5)
102-35 Remuneration policies Proxy (pages 49-84)
102-36 Process for determining remuneration Proxy (pages 49-72)
102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration Proxy (pages 30-32)
102-40 List of stakeholder groups How We Approach CSR, Engaging with Our Stakeholders 9
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders How We Approach CSR, Engaging with Our Stakeholders 9
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement How We Approach CSR, Engaging with Our Stakeholders,  
Identifying Key Environmental, Social, and Governance 
(ESG) Issues9, 10
102-45 Entities included in consolidated 
financial statementsSubsidiaries of the Company
102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries About This Report 6
102-47 List of material topics Priority issues are included in How We Approach CSR,  
Identifying Key Environmental, Social, and Governance 
(ESG) Issues10
102-48 Restatements of information There are no restatements for this reporting period.
102-49 Changes in reporting There are no significant changes from the previous 
reporting period.
102-50 Reporting period About This Report 6
102-51 Date of most recent report September 2017
102-52 Reporting cycle AnnualColleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersIndex
 Introduction Communities Operations
 Responsible 
Business Practices
INDEX73
Disclosure No. Disclosure Title Report Section or Other Documentation Page No.
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report We value feedback from our stakeholders.  
If you would like to get in touch, please email  
corporate.social.responsibility@aexp.com
If you would like to stay up-to-date with our CSR activities, 
you can follow the blog posts of our Senior Vice President, 
Corporate Social Responsibility, Timothy J. McClimon
102-55 GRI content index GRI Content Index 71
102-56 External assurance Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. (BVNA) was engaged to 
conduct an independent verification of the greenhouse gas 
emissions reported by American Express for the calendar 
year 2017 . 
gri 103: management approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR,  Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Promoting Responsible Business Practices, Reporting 
Concerns18
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Promoting Responsible Business Practices, Reporting 
Concerns18
gri 201: economic performance
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR,  Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Annual Report (pages 67-144)
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Annual Report (pages 67-144)
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed About American Express, Company Profile, Annual Report 
(pages 67-144)4
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and 
opportunities due to climate changeCDP Submission (CC2.3, CC2.4)
gri 202: market presence
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR,  Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Annual Report (pages 2-5)
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Annual Report (pages 2-5)
202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender 
compared to local minimum wageWe provide competitive levels of compensation that meet 
or exceed local minimum wage requirements. Competitive 
wages and benefit programs may vary according to 
country and/or location. Most employees hired locally.
201-2 Proportion of senior management 
hired from the local communityMost employees are hired locally. We may consider 
qualified candidates across the globe when hiring for 
senior management positions.
gri 203: indirect economic impacts
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR, Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components How We Approach CSR, Caring for Our Communities 8, 47Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersIndex
 Introduction Communities Operations
 Responsible 
Business Practices
INDEX74
Disclosure No. Disclosure Title Report Section or Other Documentation Page No.
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach How We Approach CSR, Caring for Our Communities 8, 47
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Caring for Our Communities, Revitalizing Neighborhoods 49
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Caring for Our Communities, Serving Communities, 
Developing Leaders 49, 53
gri 204: procurement practices
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR, Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Managing Our Operations, Commitments to Sustainable 
Products, Responsible Sourcing, and Supplier Diversity 62
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Managing Our Operations, Commitments to Sustainable 
Products, Responsible Sourcing, and Supplier Diversity 62
gri 205: anti-corruption
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR,  Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Promoting Responsible Business Practices, Business 
Ethics Policies and Procedures17
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Promoting Responsible Business Practices, Business 
Ethics Policies and Procedures17
205-2 Communication and training about anti-
corruption policies and proceduresPromoting Responsible Business Practices, Business, 
Ethics Policies and Procedure, Code of Conduct17
gri 301: materials
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR,  Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Managing Our Operations 57
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Managing Our Operations 57
301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Managing Our Operations, Managing our Environmental 
Performance65
gri 302: energy
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR,  Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Managing Our Operations, Introduction, and Reducing Our 
Carbon Emissions57, 58
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Managing Our Operations, Introduction, and Reducing Our 
Carbon Emissions57, 58
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Managing Our Operations, Managing our Environmental 
Performance65
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Managing Our Operations, Reducing Our Carbon 
Emissions, and Managing our Environmental Performance58, 65Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersIndex
 Introduction Communities Operations
 Responsible 
Business Practices
INDEX75
Disclosure No. Disclosure Title Report Section or Other Documentation Page No.
gri 303: water
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR,  Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Managing Our Operations, Reducing Waste, Water, and 
Chemicals61
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Managing Our Operations, Reducing Waste, Water, and 
Chemicals61
gri 305: emissions
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR,  Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Managing Our Operations, Introduction, and Reducing Our 
Carbon Emissions57, 58
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Managing Our Operations, Introduction, and Reducing Our 
Carbon Emissions57, 58
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Managing Our Operations, Managing our Environmental 
Performance65
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Managing Our Operations, Managing our Environmental 
Performance65
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Managing Our Operations, Managing our Environmental 
Performance65
305-4 GHG emissions intensity Managing Our Operations, Managing our Environmental 
Performance65
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Managing Our Operations, Managing our Environmental 
Performance65
gri 306: effluents and waste
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR,  Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Managing Our Operations, Introduction, and Reducing Our 
Carbon Emissions57, 58
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Managing Our Operations, Investing in Sustainable 
Workplaces, Reducing Waste, Water, and Chemicals60, 61
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Managing Our Operations, Investing in Sustainable 
Workplaces, Reducing Waste, Water, and Chemicals60, 61
gri 401: employment
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR,  Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Serving Our Colleagues, Introduction 25
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Serving Our Colleagues, Introduction 25Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersIndex
 Introduction Communities Operations
 Responsible 
Business Practices
INDEX76
Disclosure No. Disclosure Title Report Section or Other Documentation Page No.
gri 404: training and education
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR,  Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Serving Our Colleagues, Introduction 25
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Serving Our Colleagues, Introduction 25
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills 
and transition assistance programsServing Our Colleagues, Providing Learning and 
Development29
gri 405: diversity and equal opportunity
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR,  Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Serving Our Colleagues, Our Global Diversity and Inclusion 
Strategy26
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Serving Our Colleagues, Our Global Diversity and Inclusion 
Strategy26
405-1 Composition of governance bodies and 
breakdown of employees per employee category 
according to gender, age group, minority group 
membership, and other indicators of diversityPromoting Responsible Business Practices, Board of 
Directors and Corporate Governance Framework
Serving Our Colleagues, Our Global Diversity and Inclusion 
Strategy20 
26
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration 
of women to menAmerican Express Statement on Gender Pay Equity
gri 406: non-discrimination
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR,  Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Promoting Responsible Business Practices, Business 
Ethics Policies and Procedures17
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Promoting Responsible Business Practices, Business 
Ethics Policies and Procedures17
gri 412: human rights assessment
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR,  Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Promoting Responsible Business Practices, Business 
Ethics Policies and Procedures17
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Promoting Responsible Business Practices, Business 
Ethics Policies and Procedures17
gri 413: local communities
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR, Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Caring for Our Communities, Introduction 47
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Caring for Our Communities, Introduction 47
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, 
impact assessments, and development programsCaring for Our Communities, Charitable Giving 48Colleagues Our Approach Customers  
& PartnersIndex
 Introduction Communities Operations
 Responsible 
Business Practices
INDEX77
Disclosure No. Disclosure Title Report Section or Other Documentation Page No.
gri 414: supplier social assessment
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR,  Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Managing Our Operations, Commitments to Sustainable 
Products, Responsible Sourcing, and Supplier Diversity62
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Managing Our Operations, Commitments to Sustainable 
Products, Responsible Sourcing, and Supplier Diversity62
gri 415: public policy
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR,  Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Promoting Responsible Business Practices, Business 
Ethics Policies and Procedures17
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Promoting Responsible Business Practices, Business 
Ethics Policies and Procedures17
gri 417: marketing and labeling
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR,  Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Delivering for Our Customers and Partners, Responsible 
Marketing and Fair Lending 39
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Delivering for Our Customers and Partners, Responsible 
Marketing and Fair Lending 39
gri 418: customer privacy
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR,  Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Promoting Responsible Business Practices, Risk 
Management and Security, Serving Our Customers and 
Partners, Building a Safe and Secure Network21, 41
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Promoting Responsible Business Practices, Risk 
Management and Security, Serving Our Customers and 
Partners, Building a Safe and Secure Network21, 41
gri 419: socio-economic compliance
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary How We Approach CSR,  Identifying Key Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) Issues10
103-2 The management approach and its components Promoting Responsible Business Practices, Business 
Ethics Policies and Procedures
Delivering for Our Customers and Partners, Responsible 
Marketing and Fair Lending17 
39
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Promoting Responsible Business Practices, Business 
Ethics Policies and Procedures
Delivering for Our Customers and Partners, Responsible 
Marketing and Fair Lending17 
39Thank you for reading our  
2017–2018 CSR report.   
We value feedback from our stakeholders.  
If you would like to get in touch, please email 
corporate.social.responsibility@aexp.co m. 
If you would like to stay up-to-date with our 
CSR activities, you can follow the blog posts  
of our Senior Vice President, Corporate 
Social Responsibility, Timothy J. McClimon.