2019 Sustainability Report
Table of Contents Executive Message
About AMETEK
Our Core
Our Strategy
Our People
Our Solutions3
4
6
10
12
18
 AT AMETEKWHAT DRIVES SUSTAINABILITY
OUR COREOUR STRATEGY
OUR SOLUTIO
N
SO
U
R
 P
EO
PLE                 Safety First
              Talent Development
           Global Diversity and Inclusion
        Environmentally Conscious
    Community-Focused
Ethical Business PracticesTechnology Innovation                
Differentiated Products            
Strong Customer Relationships        
Supply Chain Flexibility    
Socially Responsible ProcessesOperational Excellence
New Product Development
Global and Market Expansion
Cash Generation
Capital Deployment
Strategic Acquisitions
Strong Values
Sound Governance
Compliance and 
Risk Management Oversight/users ὒC
Executive Message
At AMETEK, we believe in building a sustainable future for our shareholders, 
colleagues, customers and suppliers, and the communities where we operate. 
To us, sustainability is a commitment to do the right thing in all facets of our company, 
while delivering strong, consistent and profitable growth. We are pleased to have 
the opportunity to share this report with you, which is divided into four main sections 
summarized below.  
Sustainability at AMETEK starts with Our Core , which includes strong values, sound 
corporate governance and detailed oversight of compliance and risk management. 
These core elements result in a deep-rooted company culture that unites all of AMETEK’s 
colleagues in the common spirit of collaboration, creativity and innovation to solve our 
customers’ most complex challenges with differentiated technology solutions . Our core 
is the critical starting point for our commitment to a sustainable business strategy. 
 
The AMETEK Growth Model’s success is driven by our keen focus on Operational 
Excellence, New Product Development, Global and Market Expansion, and  
Strategic Acquisitions – with a disciplined approach to Cash Generation and Capital 
Deployment. Central to the AMETEK Growth Model is an emphasis on Talent  
Development. Together, these provide a platform for long-term, sustainable growth.
Our People  drive our success. Our distributed, performance-driven culture means we  
rely heavily on our diverse teams to execute our strategy and embrace our values by doing 
the right thing every day, in every interaction. We are committed to providing safe and  
healthy working conditions, and continued professional development opportunities, as well 
as inclusive environments where our colleagues’ ideas are valued. We are also committed  
to improving the communities where we work and live.   
Finally, Our Solutions  are making the world a better place. Many of our solutions   
provide sustainability-related benefits such as improved health care outcomes, food and 
pharmaceutical safety, and safeguarding the environment. Supporting these solutions  
are deep customer relationships, leading technology innovation, a global manufacturing 
footprint, a flexible supply chain and socially responsible processes.  
We believe the story of sustainability at AMETEK is a growth story, and we appreciate 
this opportunity to share it with you. Your feedback is welcome, and we look forward to 
continuing this journey together.Our Strategy , embodied in the AMETEK Growth Model,  
is proven, scalable and sustainable. 
David A. Zapico
Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Officer
Sustainability at AMETEK03About AMETEK
AMETEK’s world-class businesses  
support a broad set of customers through  
a robust portfolio of differentiated  
technology solutions. These solutions serve 
many niche markets around the globe, while 
addressing important, long-term growth trends 
impacting the world economy.
Our growth initiatives focus on expanding our 
presence and capabilities across these attractive 
growth areas.
 
 
 
 
AMETEK consists of two operating groups: 
Electronic Instruments Group (EIG) and 
Electromechanical Group (EMG).   
EIG is a worldwide leader in the design and 
manufacture of advanced analytical, test and 
measurement instrumentation for aerospace, 
medical, power, energy, research and  
industrial markets.
 
EMG is a differentiated supplier of automation  
and precision motion control solutions,  
as well as highly engineered electrical inter-
connects, specialty metals and thermal 
management systems.
About AMETEK
GROWTH
TRENDS/wind-turbine/heartbeat/cog
/ruler-triangle/plane-altὒC
Global Sales
$5+ 
BILLION
EBITDA
$1.4 
BILLION     Acquisitions since 2000
80+
     Market-Leading Brands
165+     Global Workforce
18K+
Operating Locations in
 30 Countries
150+Capital Deployed on 
Acquisitions Since 2000
$8.1+ 
BILLION
Ensuring 
Reliable Energy
Production  
& SupplyProviding 
Mission-Critical 
Solutions to the 
Medical & Health Care 
FieldsDeveloping Solutions 
for Automation
& ManufacturingAdvancing 
Cutting-Edge  
Research  
& Development
Supporting 
Next-Generation
Aerospace  
& Defense Platforms
Extending Limits 
in Test, 
Measurement 
& DetectionAMETEK is a leading global provider of electronic 
instruments and electromechanical devices 
with more than 18,000 colleagues at 150+ operating 
locations and a global network of sales, service 
and support locations in 30 countries around  
the world. The company has been listed on the New York 
Stock Exchange (NYSE) since 1930 and is headquartered  
in Berwyn, Pennsylvania. 
Sustainability at AMETEK Sustainability at AMETEK04 05Our Core
Our Core Values
• Ethics
• Integrity
• Respect for the Individual
• Diversity
• Teamwork
• Social Responsibility
Our Core combines a strong set of values  
with sound corporate governance and  
detailed oversight of compliance and risk 
management. These foundational elements, which 
have guided the company since our founding 
in 1930, create the building blocks for a sustainable 
organization and will remain constant through 
our future.
Strong values, sound governance 
and detailed oversight of 
compliance and risk management 
are the foundation for a 
sustainable organization.
Our core provides a unique company culture that 
unites AMETEK’s colleagues across the globe. This 
common understanding of doing what is right for  
our shareholders, colleagues, customers, suppliers 
and communities strengthens AMETEK’s collaborative, 
creative, performance-based culture, driving our 
organization to new heights. 
AMETEK’s global scale and distributed business 
structure provides meaningful opportunities for our 
colleagues to broaden their skill sets. Our diverse, 
world-class workforce fosters new ways of thinking 
and helps drive innovation. We strive to be a nimble 
organization that is team-oriented and collegial,  
with employees working together to solve our 
customers’ most complex challenges. We are dedi-
cated to maintaining the core of our business 
while continuing to grow as a sustainable company.Strong Values
At AMETEK, we believe that our strong core 
values — ethics, integrity, respect for the 
individual, diversity, teamwork and social 
responsibility — are essential to doing business 
the right way. We expect management and our 
colleagues to conduct themselves with the highest level 
of ethical behavior and integrity in every interaction. 
At AMETEK, we work together in collaborative, diverse 
teams and our colleagues have deep respect for  
one another. We strive to make a meaningful, positive 
impact in our communities and operate with a high  
level of social responsibility. 
AMETEK’s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct  
reflects what our stakeholders can expect of the 
organization, including its Board of Directors, officers 
and employees. The Code, along with AMETEK’s 
internal policies and procedures, outlines expectations 
for fair, honest and safe interactions, both internally 
and externally. Many of our policies and procedures 
go beyond legal requirements to embrace social 
responsibility and good corporate stewardship. 
Management is responsible for assuring compliance 
with the Code as well as our internal policies and 
procedures, and that the appropriate controls are in 
place to monitor our compliance. In addition, AMETEK’s 
businesses operate in accordance with applicable  
laws and regulations and support AMETEK’s ethical 
approach.This is further supported by AMETEK’s 
open communication between our colleagues and 
management. We encourage our teams to report 
any concerns regarding conduct, policy violations,  
financial matters, safety issues or other topics directly 
to their managers, Human Resources or anonymously 
through the AMETEK Hotline.
       
Toll-free from the U.S.:  (800 ) 461 -9330 *
or www. ametekhotline.com  
* For specific country phone numbers outside the U.S., please visit   
  the above website. 
Sustainability at AMETEK Sustainability at AMETEK06 07AMETEK’s Board of Directors and its com-
mittees play several important governance roles. 
These roles include working with management  
to set the company’s strategy; evaluating the perfor-
mance and determining the compensation of our 
Chief Executive Officer; approving compensation for 
all other executive officers; and overseeing our risk 
management programs. 
The Board is currently composed of nine directors, 
including three women. Eight of our nine Board 
members are independent directors as defined by the 
NYSE. The Board’s Audit, Compensation, and  
Corporate Governance/Nominating Committees each 
consist entirely of independent directors. Director 
nominations are made by the Corporate Governance/
Nominating Committee. 
Additional details on the Board, its committees and 
their functions can be found in AMETEK’s Corporate 
Governance Guidelines and in our annual proxy  
statement. Committee charters can also be found at 
investors.ametek.com . Our Core
Sound Governance
AMETEK’s future depends on the actions 
we take today. Sound corporate governance is 
key to enabling responsible decision-making 
at the highest levels of the organization. This leads 
to accountability and promotes public trust.
We have a lead independent director to chair meetings of 
the independent directors and act as a liaison between the 
independent directors and our Chairman and CEO.
We have independent, experienced committee chairpersons.
Our Board includes three female directors.  
A majority vote is required for the election of directors in 
uncontested elections.
Proxy access is permitted for a shareholder, or a group of up 
to 20 shareholders owning at least 3% of our common stock 
for at least three years, to submit director nominees.
All members of our Audit Committee are considered  
financial experts.
We have robust stock ownership guidelines for our Board 
and senior management.
Executive compensation is benchmarked annually by a third 
party and is designed in a manner to not promote excessive 
risk taking.
The Board undertakes an annual self-evaluation process.AMETEK Corporate Governance Highlights
Compliance and Risk 
Management Oversight 
One of the primary roles of AMETEK’s executive 
leadership team and the Board of Directors is 
to assess and mitigate the various risks associated 
with our businesses. 
To that end, AMETEK has designated an Enterprise 
Risk Management (ERM) committee that meets quarterly 
with the goal of maximizing the company’s ability to 
achieve its business objectives. The committee, made 
up of a cross-functional team including ERM experts 
and senior business leaders, helps achieve this vision by 
creating a comprehensive approach to anticipate, 
identify, prioritize and manage material risks to our 
organization. Enterprise risk includes any significant event 
or circumstance that could impact the achievement of 
our business objectives, including strategic, operational, 
reporting, compliance and reputational risks.
The primary responsibility of the ERM committee is to 
ensure that sound policies, procedures and practices are 
in place for the enterprise-wide management of  
the company’s material risks. The committee is also 
responsible for reporting results of these activities   
to the Board of Directors and its Audit Committee. While 
AMETEK’s Audit Committee has primary responsibility 
for overseeing risk management for AMETEK, our entire 
Board, and each committee of the Board, plays  
an active role in risk management activities. The Audit 
Committee receives quarterly reports from AMETEK’s 
management team and the entire Board receives a  
risk management update at least annually. Risk 
management focus areas include, but are not limited to:
 
• Cyber Security
• Response to Natural Disasters
• Country Concentration Risk
• Geopolitical Risk
• Product and Technology Risk  
As an element of ERM oversight, AMETEK and our Board 
of Directors are committed to legal, regulatory and 
environmental compliance. Within this framework, we have 
developed a robust set of internal policies and procedures, 
which are made available to all employees to help monitor 
and manage compliance across our enterprise. 
Sustainability at AMETEK Sustainability at AMETEK08 09Our Strategy
Our Strategy, embodied in the AMETEK Growth 
Model, has been proven successful, leading to 
strong, sustained growth and increased value for 
all of AMETEK’s stakeholders. 
The AMETEK Growth Model integrates the four growth 
strategies of Operational Excellence, New Product 
Development, Global and Market Expansion, and 
Strategic Acquisitions with a focus on cash generation 
and capital deployment. Talent development is  
central to the AMETEK Growth Model, with our people 
as the driving force of our strategy. Each foundational 
element reinforces the others to create a greater impact, 
which provides a scalable platform to drive long-term, 
sustainable growth for our entire organization.The success of the AMETEK Growth Model is a result  
of the deep-rooted, performance-based culture embodied 
by AMETEK. That culture is maintained and reinforced by 
attracting, retaining and developing a world-class 
workforce across our global footprint. All of AMETEK’s 
colleagues are responsible for embracing and executing 
the AMETEK Growth Model within their function. 
The idea of sustainability is not a new concept for 
AMETEK. Since the company’s founding in 1930, we have 
been dedicated to doing business the right way every 
day. By focusing on our businesses and the needs of our 
customers, we generate strong, sustained results over 
the long term. This allows us to invest in our people, our 
businesses and our shared communities. This is our  
view of sustainability.
GROWTH MODEL
Our Strategy
The AMETEK Growth Model 
drives our sustainability.
$4,846$2,098
09 10 11 12 13 14 15 161718
Net Sales 
(in millions)
18,10010,100
09 10 11 12 13 14 15 161718
Employees
$1,129$73
09 10 11 12 13 14 15 161718
Capital Deployed on Acquisitions
(in millions)Operational Excellence
As the cornerstone of the AMETEK Growth Model, Operational Excellence is  
a key component of the company’s well-ingrained culture. We continue to drive 
process improvements for our businesses through the use of our Operational 
Excellence tool kit. These strategies provide improved efficiencies and asset 
management, leading to strong operating performance.
Strategic Acquisitions
Acquisitions are an important part of AMETEK’s history, and its future. AMETEK 
seeks to deploy its strong free cash flow on highly differentiated businesses 
with leading positions in niche markets. We look to create significant value by 
successfully integrating our acquired businesses into the AMETEK Growth Model, 
driving increased performance and long-term, sustainable results.
New Product Development
Technology innovation is an integral component of AMETEK’s success. We 
consistently invest in research, development and engineering to design next-
generation products and solutions that are solving our customers’ most  
complex challenges across the globe. Over the years, our product innovation  
has led to a portfolio of advanced, highly differentiated technology solutions  
serving a diverse set of niche markets.
Global and Market Expansion
With operations in 30 countries worldwide, AMETEK is a global enterprise. 
Through increased investments in improved sales, service and marketing 
capabilities, we have significantly grown our international business and greatly 
expanded our reach into adjacent markets.
Cash Flow Generation
Given our asset-light business model and strong operational execution, our 
businesses generate tremendous cash flow.
Disciplined Capital Deployment
AMETEK’s cash flow generation supports the company’s capital deployment 
strategy. This strategy is primarily focused on strategic, value-enhancing 
acquisitions, which ultimately drives long-term, compounding growth. We are 
also committed to paying a modest, yet consistent quarterly dividend.
Sustainability at AMETEK Sustainability at AMETEK10 11Our People
At AMETEK, we are committed to the 
health, safety and well-being of Our People. 
Built on our strong foundation of ethical 
business practices, this commitment extends 
to our more than 18,000 AMETEK colleagues 
around the world, their families and those  
in the communities where we live and work.  
At AMETEK, we recognize that our people are 
the driving force behind our sustainable future.
Health and Safety
AMETEK’s management has a strict, unwavering  
focus on the safety of our employees. To this end, we 
aim to build a health and safety culture where:
• Employees come to work and return home 
 safely each and every day.
• Zero accidents in the workplace is our  
ultimate goal.
• All levels of management are fully involved 
 with safety and held accountable.
• Continual safety improvement is driven  
by committed employees who are engaged  
at all locations.
AMETEK’s Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) 
function is responsible for the programs, policies  
and procedures that help protect both our colleagues 
and the people in our communities. The EHS  
team is comprised of leaders within our corporate office 
and facility managers at each of our operating sites. 
Collectively, the team manages numerous health and 
safety areas of focus as part of our EHS initiatives. 
The focus areas are tracked and monitored through 
continual, on-site facility audits. Audit results and EHS 
metrics are communicated to management on a  
monthly basis.We continue to drive toward our goal of zero lost-time  
work incidents. Our 2018 lost-time incident rate was 
the lowest ever and we continue to enhance our safety 
initiatives as each facility is tasked with identifying 
opportunities for additional safety measures. Businesses 
with zero incidents share best practices and ensure ongoing 
training to maintain their safety excellence. In addition to 
our EHS facility audits, our facilities’ activities include safety 
committees, continual training, documented self-audits,  
and behavior-based safety observations and feedback.Lost Workday Incident Rate
(per 100 workers, per year)
RESULTZero 
Injuries
PERSEVERANCEDaily Emphasis 
24/7
OUTCOMESafe 
Behaviors & Acts
CONTROLSSafety Management 
System
VALUESNothing we do is worth getting hurt for.
    Safety is a managed process and shared responsibility.
         Every injury could and should have been prevented.EHS Policy Statement Establishes  
the Expectations
In addition to our focus on health and safety, we are  
also committed to improving our processes and solutions 
with a focus on compliance, safety and environmental 
consciousness. In that spirit, and  to ensure align-
ment across our footprint, we have established the 
following expectations of our businesses as outlined in 
AMETEK’s EHS Policy Statement:
• Meet or surpass the requirements of EHS laws and regulations 
wherever we do business around the world.
• Educate, empower and expect all our colleagues to behave  
in ways that protect the environment and make health and safety 
a priority. 
• Strive continuously to improve the efficiency of our operations   
to minimize both the use of materials and the generation of waste.
• Operate our facilities in a responsible and cooperative fashion in 
the communities where they reside.
• Continuously improve our EHS systems. AMETEK’s Foundation for Health and 
Safety ExcellenceOur People
11 12 13 14 15 16 17 181.08
0.41Industry Average1.10
AMETEK
  82  Sites with Zero Lost-Time Incidents in 2018  
Sustainability at AMETEK Sustainability at AMETEK12 13Our People
Talent Acquisition and 
Development
At AMETEK, we believe that a talented, engaged 
and dynamic workforce is vital to our success. 
We seek to hire, develop and retain individuals  
who embrace and thrive in our performance-based, 
entrepreneurial culture.  
AMETEK’s distributed business model allows our 
employees to bring varied, complementary experiences 
to their roles. We are united by our common spirit  
of collaboration, creativity and innovation, backed by  
the power of a large, global company.
Our businesses strive to build robust talent pipelines 
through targeted recruitment initiatives across our 
30-country geographic footprint. Our programs ensure 
seamless onboarding for our new employees. We 
identify and nurture talent through a culture that enables 
employees to succeed and grow into leadership 
positions. AMETEK’s diverse businesses and distributed 
structure provide many opportunities for employees  
to follow their own path and advance their careers. 
We have a comprehensive leadership development 
process that identifies the next generation of AMETEK’s 
leaders and promotes proper succession planning 
across our businesses. This process includes monthly 
leadership development meetings with the executive 
team, as well as annual leadership reviews with each 
AMETEK business.We have several programs specifically designed to ready 
our employees for future leadership roles:
AMETEK University:  
This event allows business managers and 
high-potential employees, nominated by the leadership 
group, to learn about AMETEK’s history, culture  
and processes as well as collaborate in group exercises. 
Center for Creative Leadership®: 
AMETEK partners with the Center for Creative Leadership 
to provide our rising leaders with highly focused, 
off-site training sessions. The partnership also provides 
access to online leadership training programs and research 
to help participants hone their skills on a continual basis. 
Financial Management Program: 
This program offers recent finance and accounting 
graduates a three-year, immersive experience in which 
they develop leadership skills through rotational 
field assignments, classroom training and networking events. 
Successful completion of the program prepares them 
for future leadership roles within AMETEK’s finance functions.
By investing in world-class talent, improving the perfor-
mance of our businesses and committing to positively 
impacting our customers, we experience an 85% workforce 
retention rate — among the highest in our industry.
Our People
Diversity and Inclusion
Diversity is a core value at AMETEK and a critical 
focus area across all levels of the company.  
At the highest level, AMETEK’s Board is comprised of 
directors with diverse skills, backgrounds and 
experiences. Additionally, 33% of our current directors 
are women, one of the highest levels in our industry.
This structure promotes healthy conversation and 
different perspectives on our company’s future, which 
permeate throughout the entire organization. 
Given the company’s global nature and diverse customer 
base, we seek to promote a strong balance across 
our workforce by implementing programs to increase 
the number of women and minorities in various 
functions throughout the organization.
We are also committed to creating an inclusive 
environment for our colleagues. Since 2018, more  
than 3,000 AMETEK managers have participated  
in unconscious bias training to learn how to identify and 
address implicit bias that may affect team performance 
and chemistry. The course covers techniques for  
hiring and leading diverse teams. Additionally, AMETEK 
has taken a company-wide approach to providing 
training for its employees that fosters a respectful and 
inclusive work environment.
Sustainability at AMETEK Sustainability at AMETEK14 15Community Impact
AMETEK is dedicated to good stewardship 
in the communities where we work and live. 
Along with operating as a responsible neighbor,  
we actively encourage our employees to make a 
positive impact through volunteer events and  
financial support from the AMETEK Foundation. 
Established in 1960, the AMETEK Foundation is the 
company’s charitable arm that empowers our 
colleagues to make a positive impact in their local 
communities. We encourage our employees to apply 
for grants that support the charitable organizations 
where they have donated their time, talents and Our People
In 2019, colleagues at AMETEK’s corporate office volunteered with  
The First Tee of Greater Philadelphia, a youth development organization 
that positively impacts the lives of more than 21,000 children through  
the game of golf. The AMETEK team helped rehabilitate the organization’s 
home course, where it hosts events and camps that teach kids nine  
core values: Honesty, Integrity, Sportsmanship, Respect, Confidence, 
Responsibility, Perseverance, Courtesy and Judgment. AMETEK India employees volunteer and donate to PRERANA’s Nurture 
Merit Program, which provides financial aid to meritorious  
students from underprivileged backgrounds in Pre-University (PUC) 
1st Year (11th grade) up to college and professional degree programs.
In addition to the financial support, employees help the program 
by offering counseling and “soft skills” training to increase students’ 
employability and self-confidence. The First Tee of Greater Philadelphia PRERANA’s Nurture Merit Programfinancial contributions. Often, these organizations  
make a direct impact in the local communities where  
we operate, which provides a broad, global reach.  
Since 2016, the AMETEK Foundation has made  
donations to more than 190 charitable organizations 
around the world. 
Initiatives that are supported by the AMETEK Foundation 
include those that promote health and welfare; civic 
and social service programs; and education — specifically 
with a focus on science, technology, engineering and 
math (STEM) fields for underserved students.
Volunteerism in Our Communities
The AMETEK Foundation and the company also support AMETEK’s employees in their volunteer efforts. In recent  
years, AMETEK colleagues from across our global footprint have hosted and participated in unique volunteer initiatives  
that directly connect with our mission. A few examples include:Employee-Driven, Local Impact Around the World 
Our People
Philadelphia Eagles Eye Mobile
The AMETEK Foundation has been a long-time partner of the Eagles Charitable Foundation including  
the program’s expansion with Vision To Learn. The Eagles Eye Mobile - Powered by Vision  To Learn  helps 
children in Philadelphia get the high-quality vision care they need to succeed in life. With our support,  
more than 7,500 children have received free eye exams and glasses. AMETEK’s Reichert Technologies has 
also provided the organization with advanced optometry equipment to expand its efforts in additional  
cities across the country. 
International STEM Scholarship Program
Each year, the AMETEK Foundation provides scholarships to more than 40 students seeking a  
degree in STEM-related fields at selected schools in China, France and the United Kingdom.  
These need-based scholarships are awarded to students who have demonstrated strong academic 
performance, leadership and participation in school and community activities, and solid work 
experience. Since 2016, the AMETEK Foundation has awarded more than 160 scholarships through 
the program.
Supporting Pediatric Cancer Care in Brazil
Through the AMETEK Foundation, colleagues of AMETEK do Brasil support the Centro Infantil 
Boldrini (Boldrini Children’s Center) in Campinas, São Paulo, Brazil. The hospital’s mission is 
to care for children and young adults in Brazil and Latin America suffering from cancer and rare blood 
diseases. In addition to providing financial support, employees donate their time to visit with 
patients, families and staff.Promoting Childhood Literacy
Since 2002, the AMETEK Foundation has partnered with the American Reading Company to  
improve literacy rates among children in underserved communities across the United States. The  
partnership has provided more than 120,000 books to students in kindergarten through third  
grade – the most important years for childhood reading development. In addition, AMETEK colleagues 
support these efforts by reading to students and working with teachers to promote American  
Reading Company’s 100-book challenge. These activities encourage students at an early age to  
make reading part of their everyday routine.
Sustainability at AMETEK Sustainability at AMETEK16 17Our Solutions
Our Solutions are solving our customers’ most complex challenges. At AMETEK, we invest in,  
develop and acquire differentiated technologies and enjoy  an excellent reputation for technical innovation and 
next-generation product development. Many of our products provide sustainability-related benefits, and we 
are proud to feature several of these solutions in this report. 
Our businesses partner with their customers to ensure that our solutions are constantly evolving and meeting the 
demands of our niche markets. These solutions are addressing some of today’s most important issues, which include 
improving patient health outcomes, ensuring safety in the food and pharmaceutical industries, and safeguarding 
the environment. 
Our solutions include more than just our products and services. We focus on building lasting, sustainable customer 
relationships based on trust, cooperation and long-term commitment. We support our customers through a  
global manufacturing footprint, including campuses in Mexico, China, Serbia, Czech Republic and Malaysia. These  
campuses are built on socially responsible processes and meet stringent environmental and safety standards,  
while supporting the needs of our customers. Our significant reach is further supported by a global and flexible  
supply chain.
Our Solutions
Improving Medical & Health Care Outcomes  
 Around the world, AMETEK solutions are helping improve patient care         
and outcomes. The following are three select examples where our businesses are    
making positive impacts in the medical and health care fields
Rauland’s Responder® solutions allow 
hospitals and other health care facilities to 
create and optimize their workflows and 
critical communications. These connected 
solutions support improved efficiency  
and higher levels of safety and satisfaction 
for patients and staff. For example, the 
Responder series helps nurses and hospital 
staff monitor patient behavior and automates 
the “rounding” process, or regular check-
ins with patients. This process, coupled with 
the communication technology, promotes 
fall prevention as patients are more apt to 
contact their caretakers rather than trying  
to move on their own. Additionally, Rauland’s 
bedside applications are connected with 
the hospital’s nurse call system, so staff 
know when a patient is trying to leave his or 
her bed and can directly and immediately 
communicate with the patient while care 
providers are on their way. Reichert Technologies’ Tono-Pen AVIA® 
Tonometer is a handheld solution used 
by ophthalmologists and optometrists in 
evaluating a patient’s intraocular pressure 
(IOP), which is an important aspect of 
detecting glaucoma. Reichert’s technology 
allows for more accurate readings and is less 
sensitive to corneal centration, which makes 
it highly effective for assessing IOP following 
eye surgery. The handheld design of the 
Tono-Pen AVIA also allows for easier, more 
comfortable use with patients confined to 
beds or wheelchairs. AMETEK’s Engineered Medical Components 
(EMC) business is a leader in customized 
medical device interconnects, cable 
assemblies and leads. Its products include 
fine-featured components, engineered 
assemblies and laser-fabricated components 
that are used in custom solutions for a 
variety of medical applications. As an 
example, EMC’s products are being used in 
neurostimulation, a high-focus area that helps 
post-surgical patients manage pain without 
the use of opioids, thus reducing the chance 
for harmful abuse and addiction. Improving Patient Care Detecting Glaucoma EfficientlySupporting Advanced
Health Care Treatment
 
 
 
.
Sustainability at AMETEK Sustainability at AMETEK18 19Our Solutions
Ensuring Global Food & Pharmaceuticals Safety 
 AMETEK’s high-end instrumentation solutions support sustainability.  
Specifically, the following businesses offer products that protect our food supply, reduce waste 
and promote reliable pharmaceutical production.
Water vapor, oxygen and carbon dioxide 
have the potential to penetrate fresh food 
packaging and reduce shelf life, which 
causes increased and unnecessary waste. 
Our MOCON permeation instruments 
help customers design better packaging by 
measuring the transmission rate of gases 
through various barrier materials. Packaging 
scientists are also using MOCON to 
design and test next-generation packaging 
that is compostable, recyclable, made 
from recycled polymer, and/or is thinner, 
which reduces weight and improves 
transportation efficiency.Protecting the global food supply is one 
of the greatest concerns for government 
agencies around the world. Increased 
investments are being made to promote the 
detection of pollutants to prevent tainted 
foods from being distributed to the public. 
As an example, officials in China are 
utilizing highly specialized instrumentation 
to detect cadmium, a known carcinogen, 
in their rice supply. Amptek’s Silicon Drift 
Detectors are critical components in the 
X-ray fluorescence spectrometers frequently 
used by government regulators to test foods 
at Chinese ports. The Amptek-enabled 
devices utilize digital pulses to efficiently 
evaluate large amounts of rice for possible 
traces of cadmium and are critical to 
ensuring the safe supply of one of the  
world’s most popular foods. In order for medications to be reliably 
effective, accurate moisture measurement 
and control are critical to maximize 
shelf life, optimize dissolve time and ensure 
active ingredient effectiveness. Too much 
moisture can cause premature breakdown, 
reducing effectiveness and shelf life. Too 
little moisture can prevent medications from 
dissolving at the appropriate rate, impacting 
proper performance. Pharmaceutical 
manufacturers utilize Arizona Instrument’s 
Computrac® line of moisture analyzers 
to ensure medications meet all FDA 
requirements and are consistently safe and 
effective for consumer use. Preserving Food and  
Reducing WasteDetecting Contaminants 
in the Food SupplyMeasuring Critical Moisture  
Levels in Medication
Our Solutions
Safeguarding the Environment 
 AMETEK offers a wide range of solutions that support compliance and monitoring 
in environmental, health, and safety applications. These featured solutions cover emissions 
monitoring, oil and gas pipeline security and the safety of our water supply 
AMETEK Process Instruments designs  
and manufactures monitoring equipment 
and instrumentation that help our 
customers control and reduce emissions 
which are detrimental to the environment. 
For example, the WDG-V Combustion 
Analyzer provides real-time information that 
enables operators of industrial facilities, 
such as refineries, power stations and 
petrochemical plants, to make faster, more 
informed decisions. With this information, 
operators can optimize their combustion 
processes to lower fuel consumption and 
reduce emission output. Additionally, the 
Continuous Emission Monitor offers precise 
measurement of harmful gases such as sulfur 
dioxide and nitrogen oxide to ensure proper 
environmental compliance.Ensuring safe drinking water and the proper 
treatment of wastewater is critical to the 
well-being of our population. Detecting trace 
elements plays an increasingly important 
role in supporting these efforts. SPECTRO’s 
inductively coupled plasma optical emission 
spectrometers are widely used for analyzing 
water and wastewater. With their multi-
element determination capabilities, high 
linear dynamic range and sensitivity, 
SPECTRO’s solutions are leading the way 
in helping cities and utilities keep their 
consumers and the environment safe from 
pollutants in our water supply. In order to ensure the safe transfer of oil 
and gas around the world and to prevent 
environmentally harmful leaks, energy 
companies and utilities undergo routine 
pipeline inspections for imperfections. 
Creaform’s Pipecheck™ solution enables 
non-destructive testing via 3D scanning 
technology to deliver reliable results when 
inspecting pipe integrity. Creaform’s market-
leading instruments provide 3D images  
of the pipe’s surface to calculate the amount 
of material lost through corrosion — all  
while leaving the pipeline fully intact. This 
non-destructive method also promotes  
a safer environment for engineers to make 
appropriate decisions before removing or 
replacing damaged sections.Reducing Fuel Consumption
and Harmful EmissionsPreventing Hazardous  
Leaks in PipelinesDetecting Trace Elements in
Water and Wastewater
 
.
Sustainability at AMETEK Sustainability at AMETEK20 21Contact Information
 Contact Information
Contact Information 
To contact AMETEK’s Investor Relations team:
investor.relations@ametek.com
investors.ametek.com/information-request
Corporate Office
AMETEK, Inc.
1100 Cassatt Road
Berwyn, PA 19312-1177 U.S.A.
www.ametek.com
Investor Relations
Sustainability at AMETEK Sustainability at AMETEK22 23www.ametek.com
© 2019 by AMETEK, Inc.
All rights reserved.
Printed in the U.S.A. on recycled paper
10M1019BR (010469)