2 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /   TABLE OF CONTENTSMessage to Our Stakeholders                     3
AMETEK Overview                      5
Our Core                       7
Our Strategy                     15
Our People                     19
Our Solutions                     26
AMETEK S ASB Profile Report                   35
AMETEK T CFD Disclosure                   37
About This Report                    41Table of Contents3 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    /   MESSAGE TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS
In 2020, we celebrated our 90th anniversary of  
being listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). 
It was a celebration of our long history and the  
sustainable nature of our company. As we highlighted 
in our first Sustainability Report published in 2019,  
AMETEK’s success is driven by Our Core, Our  
Strategy, Our People, Our Solutions,  and our  
commitment to doing the right thing in all facets of our 
business. This year’s report provides further detail  
on each of these areas. We also provide examples of 
how AMETEK’s solutions support our customers’  
sustainability initiatives by reducing emissions, energy  
consumption, and waste.AMETEK remains focused on creating a sustainable future 
for our stakeholders. We are proud of the important steps
we have taken to further our sustainability efforts. I am 
pleased to share in this report additional information on our 
sustainability initiatives, the progress we have made, and  
the commitments we are making to create a better future 
for all of our stakeholders.Message to Our Stakeholders
AMETEK faced unprecedented challenges brought  
on by the COVID-19 pandemic. In this report, we  
highlight our efforts to help ensure the safety and 
well-being of our employees while also supporting  
our global customers with essential solutions that 
helped battle COVID-19 and save lives. 
I remain inspired by our employees’ dedication to  
AMETEK’s mission of solving our customers’ most 
complex challenges with differentiated 
technology solutions.  Our teams’ perseverance 
allowed us to manage the downturn exceptionally  
well and emerge in an even stronger position  
to deliver future sustainable growth. This success 
speaks to the strength and flexibility of the AMETEK 
Growth Model.
David A. Zapico
Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer
4 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    /   MESSAGE TO OUR STAKEHOLDERShigher levels of employee engagement. We  
strengthened our focus on social responsibility by  
expanding our volunteer efforts and increasing our  
contributions through the AMETEK Foundation, our 
company’s charitable giving arm, to support the  
communities where we operate. 
We took steps to reduce our carbon footprint and  
began disclosing environmental data including scope 1 
and scope 2 emissions data, energy consumption, water  
usage, and waste output. In 2020, we reduced our  
absolute, combined scope 1 and scope 2 emissions  
and energy usage each by 13%. To continue this  
momentum, we have set an ambitious goal to reduce our 
greenhouse gas emissions, which is detailed later in  
this report. Additionally, we developed the Elizabeth R. 
Varet Sustainability Award to recognize our businesses’ 
efforts to reduce their environmental impact.
To better manage AMETEK’s sustainability initiatives,  
we created a cross-functional team to accelerate  
progress and identify projects that will help us achieve 
our sustainability goals. We have aligned our disclosure 
efforts with the Sustainability Accounting Standards 
Board (SASB) and the Task Force on Climate-Related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) frameworks, which are  
provided at the end of this report and on our website . 
Together, we at AMETEK are making the world a better 
place for our customers, employees, investors,  
suppliers and the communities where we operate. We 
believe our sustainability story is a growth story and 
appreciate the opportunity to share this important next 
step in that journey.
David A. Zapico
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer As a result of the pandemic, we accelerated our  
investments in AMETEK’s digital transformation, allowing 
us to efficiently support and interact with our customers 
and suppliers. We also continued our investments in  
the research, development, and engineering of advanced 
technology solutions that play a critical role in  
addressing some of the most important issues that  
impact our daily lives.
As an example, AMETEK Gatan’s K3 camera was the 
first to capture the structural image of the COVID-19 
coronavirus spike protein, which provided key data for 
the development of vaccines and therapeutics.
This past year also served as a powerful reminder  
that our core values — Ethics and Integrity, Respect  
for the Individual, Diversity and Inclusion,  
Teamwork, and Social Responsibility  — remain the 
most critical components of our sustainability efforts. We 
are taking important steps to expand and further these 
core values. In particular, we are pleased to highlight in 
this report the results of our diversity hiring and  
development initiatives.
AMETEK also enhanced its commitment to diversity 
and inclusion by establishing the African American and 
Women’s Business councils, which are driving  
5 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /   AMETEK OVERVIEWAMETEK is a leading global provider of electronic instruments and electromechanical devices that  
solve some of the world’s most complex challenges. In 2020, AMETEK celebrated its 90th anniversary  
of being listed on the NYSE. Since 1930, AMETEK has delivered strong, sustainable growth for its  
stakeholders backed by Our Core, Our Strategy, Our People, and Our Solutions.
AMETEK’s Mission : Solving our customers’  
most complex challenges with differentiated  
technology solutionsAMETEK Overview
OUR COREOUR STRATEGY
OUR SOLUTIO
N
SO
U
R
 P
EO
PLE                 Safety First
              Talent Development
           Diversity and Inclusion
        Environmentally Conscious
    Community-Focused
Ethical Business PracticesTechnology Innovation                
Differentiated Products            
Strong Customer Relationships        
Supply Chain Flexibility    
Socially Responsible ProcessesOperational Excellence
New Product Development
Global and Market Expansion
Strategic Acquisitions
Strong Values
Sound Governance
Compliance and 
Risk Management Oversight/users ὒC6 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    /   AMETEK OVERVIEWAMETEK is a market-leading provider of differentiated technology  
solutions serving a broad set of customers in diverse end markets including 
medical, aerospace and defense, research, automation, power generation, 
semiconductor, energy, and food and beverage.
AMETEK’s businesses are leaders in the niche markets 
they serve, due to their deep domain expertise and  
differentiated technology.
AMETEK is truly a global organization with approximately 
18,500 employees across more than 150 operating  
locations in 31 countries. Our diverse, high-performing 
employees provide our global customer base with  
differentiated technology solutions. 
We operate mostly assembly operations with a focus on 
final assembly and testing. AMETEK’s businesses  
partner with a broad, global network of suppliers to  
source components and materials.    While our businesses serve many different end  
markets, they strategically focus on market segments  
and applications with attractive, secular growth  
characteristics. 
To capitalize on these important secular growth trends,  
AMETEK invests heavily in the research, development, and 
engineering of our next-generation products and solutions. 
Our deep expertise across the niche markets we serve  
allows us to develop differentiated technologies that 
support our customers’ unique requirements. In 2021, 
we expect to spend more than $300 million on research, 
development, and engineering (RD&E), which is  
approximately 5.5% of AMETEK sales. Our vitality index, 
which reflects sales from new products introduced over 
the last three years, is nearly 25% of sales, highlighting  
the sustainable nature of our product portfolio.  
Global Headquarters : 
Berwyn , PA, USA
First Year Listed on NYSE : 
1930
Global Employees : 
18,500Operating Locations : 
150+
Countries with Operations : 
31
Annualized Sales : 
$5.5 Billion Brands : 
175+
Acquisitions since 2000 : 
89KEY FACTS & FIGURES
Providing Mission-Critical 
Solutions to the   
Medical & Healthcare 
FieldsDeveloping Solutions for   
Automation &  
ManufacturingAdvancing Cutting-Edge   
Research &  
DevelopmentSupporting Next-Generation   
Aerospace & Defense 
PlatformsExtending Limits in   
Test, Measurement & 
DetectionEnsuring Efficient & Reliable   
Energy Production & 
Supply
SECULAR TRENDS SUPPORTING OUR GROWTH
SALES BY REGION
  U.S. ( 51% )
  Europe ( 23% )
  Asia ( 21% )
  Americas ( 5% )7 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /   OUR COREOur Core is the backbone of our long-term,  
sustainable growth and success. We combine a strong 
set of values with sound corporate governance and 
rigorous oversight of compliance and risk management. 
These characteristics continue to drive our ongoing 
sustainability efforts. Our Core8 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /   OUR CORE
CORE VALUES
 
AMETEK’s Core Values
AMETEK’s core values are ingrained across our company and are aligned with the  
distributed nature of our business model. They are based on doing what is right for our  
employees, customers, suppliers, investors, and the communities where we operate.  
AMETEK’s global scale and business structure allow our colleagues to pursue a  
variety of meaningful opportunities to help further their industry knowledge and advance 
within the company. The diversity of our workforce encourages team-oriented  
collaboration and the sharing of new ideas and perspectives to help drive innovation.
Ethics and Integrity :  
Acting with the highest ethical standards is core to  
who we are. We have built this reputation by developing 
relationships based on trust and transparency; providing 
outstanding products and solutions that meet or exceed 
our customers’ expectations; reliably partnering with 
suppliers; providing growth opportunities for colleagues; 
delivering outstanding returns for shareholders; and  
supporting our communities through charitable donations 
and volunteerism.    
Respect for the Individual : 
At AMETEK, we understand that our colleagues are  
our greatest asset and focus on treating all employees  
with respect, which includes providing a safe work  
environment, creating a culture where employees feel 
comfortable sharing their ideas and perspectives,  
and offering advancement and development opportunities. 
We are constantly looking for ways to further enhance  
our employees’ experience and offer opportunities  
for employees to share their ideas for how to implement 
meaningful change within the company. Diversity and Inclusion : 
We believe that diversity and inclusion are critical for our 
continued growth and success and that the best ideas 
come from diverse groups of people working together. We 
continuously strive to create a more diverse and inclusive 
workplace. Our approach to diversity and inclusion spans 
the entire employment lifecycle, which includes talent 
acquisition, learning and development, and retention and 
engagement. This approach is further detailed in the Our 
People section.Teamwork : 
Our success is born from our collaborative spirit.  
Together, our teams deliver market-leading products 
through collaboration and sharing of best practices and 
ideas. Our high-performance teams provide a competitive 
edge that allows us to succeed in the markets we serve.Social Responsibility : 
As a global organization, we recognize the positive  
impact we can make on society. We focus on ensuring  
that our businesses operate responsibly to minimize  
their environmental impact. We provide solutions that  
support our customers’ sustainability initiatives by  
reducing emissions, energy use, and waste. We partner 
with our suppliers and work to ensure they are operating 
responsibly. Also, through the AMETEK Foundation,  
we support charitable organizations that serve the  
communities where we operate. These efforts are further 
highlighted in the Our People section. 
AMETEK’s sustainability 
efforts are underpinned  
by a well-defined set of 
core values.9 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /   OUR CORE
COVID-19 Response
The COVID-19 pandemic continues to 
test all our colleagues – both personally 
and professionally. At the onset of the 
pandemic, we took immediate actions to 
support the safety and well-being of our 
employees. We implemented our  
pandemic response plan, which provides 
a framework for our businesses to follow 
in managing their local facilities. Each  
AMETEK location established a site-  
specific response plan consistent with 
local health and safety guidelines. We 
continue to adapt the pandemic response 
plan and safety measures at each facility  
as the pandemic evolves.
These measures were  
established to keep our 
teams as safe as possible 
while delivering essential 
products and solutions  
to our customers – many  
of whom are delivering  
critical solutions for the  
fight against the pandemic.  As a leading manufacturer of non-contact  
temperature measurement solutions, AMETEK 
Land developed the VIRALERT 3, a non-  
contact temperature measurement solution used 
to rapidly detect elevated skin temperature.  
The VIRALERT 3, an easy-to-use and highly  
accurate temperature solution, is being used at 
entry points of offices, warehouses, hospitals, 
schools, and recreational facilities to check 
for fever – a potential sign of the virus. Given the 
product’s ability to complete accurate temperature 
screenings at scale, the VIRALERT 3 is playing  
a role in reopening key facilities around the world.
AMETEK Gatan is a leading manufacturer of  
instrumentation and software used to enhance and 
extend the operation and performance of electron 
microscopes. In early 2020, Gatan’s technology 
enabled scientists to create the first structural image 
of the COVID-19 coronavirus, providing critical  
information that helped lead to the development  
of vaccines and treatments.AMETEK Advanced Motion Solutions (AMS), a 
global leader in precision motion control, is  
providing important solutions to a broad range of 
customers helping in the fight against the virus. 
Providers of ventilators, oxygen concentrators,  
and laboratory diagnostic equipment are relying  
on AMS’s solutions to provide the critical  
technology necessary to help these businesses 
fight COVID-19.  10  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /   OUR CORE
Given global travel restrictions, our businesses quickly 
worked to implement new and innovative ways to engage 
with customers around the world. We adapted our business 
practices through the use of technology. Our businesses 
adapted to the new landscape through virtual trade shows, 
augmented reality product demonstrations and service  
support, and enhanced digital marketing initiatives.    COVID-19 Response
We also expanded our internal communications given the shift to a remote work  
environment as a result of the pandemic. One new tool we introduced was the AMETEK 
Insight Podcast, a new internal communications channel. This podcast, hosted by  
our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, touches on various topics and issues affecting 
the company.  
We also recognized the need to address some of the unique challenges brought on  
by the pandemic that impacted the communities where we operate. To this end,  
the AMETEK Foundation made contributions to various charitable organizations around  
the globe, providing food and essentials to those affected by the virus. These efforts  
are further described in the Our People section of this report.
11  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /   OUR COREGovernance
At AMETEK, we hold ourselves to the highest standards when it comes to governance
and ethics. Our unwavering commitment to doing what is right for all our stakeholders 
guides us in every decision. Through each level of our organization, we employ policies 
to govern our actions and foster an atmosphere for ethical decision-making.
Over the last 90 years, AMETEK has developed a global reputation for trust and integrity. 
We are determined to enhance that reputation as we continue to deliver long-term, 
sustainable growth. To do so, we have instituted various policies, including our Code of 
Ethics and Business Conduct.
Board Structure
AMETEK’s Board of Directors and its Committees play an integral role in the company’s sustainability by providing  
oversight of governance, risk management, and strategy development. With a diverse set of backgrounds and expertise, 
each member is highly qualified and a leader in their respective field. 
The Board is currently comprised of eight directors including three women. Seven of our eight Board members are independent directors as defined by the NYSE.  
The Board’s Audit, Compensation, and Corporate Governance/Nominating Committees each consist entirely of independent directors. Director nominations are made  
by the Corporate Governance/Nominating Committee.  
The Forum of Executive Women : AMETEK has been named 
a Champion of Board Diversity by The Forum of Executive  
Women for seven consecutive years. Founded in 1977, The  
Forum of Executive Women is a membership organization of 
more than 500 women of significant influence across the  
Greater Philadelphia region.  
50/50 Women on Boards : 50/50 Women on Boards™ named 
AMETEK a “3+” company for having three or more women on 
its Board of Directors. 50/50 Women on Boards is the leading 
global education and advocacy campaign driving the movement 
toward diverse, gender-balanced corporate boards. 
Women’s Forum of New York : AMETEK was recognized by 
the Women’s Forum of New York for the gender diversity of 
its Board of Directors. The Women’s Forum of New York is the 
premier organization of women leaders representing the highest 
levels of achievement across all professional sectors and 
spheres of influence and is committed to honoring those who 
are accelerating change.
  Independent   |     CEO
   < 5yrs.   |     5-10 yrs.   |     10+ yrs.
We are proud to be  
consistently recognized 
for our diverse Board  
of Directors.
88%
  Male   |     Female62.5% 37.5%12%
50%25%
25%12  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /   OUR CORE
Board Structure
AMETEK’s Corporate Governance Guidelines  outline 
the various policies and procedures that ensure the 
highest level of governance for our Board of Directors. 
The Corporate Governance/Nominating Committee  
oversees the process for the annual evaluation of the full 
Board and each of the Board’s Committees. The  
evaluation process takes into account the feedback from 
the directors on relevant topics. The Corporate  
Governance/Nominating Committee reviews the results 
of the annual evaluations with the Board for further  
review and discussion.Our corporate governance highlights:
 » All directors are independent other than our Chairman  
and CEO.  
 » We have a lead independent director to chair meetings  
of the independent directors and act as a liaison  
between the independent directors and our Chairman  
and CEO.  
 » The Board holds regular executive sessions of its  
independent directors.  
 » We have independent, experienced committee  
chairpersons.  
 » A majority vote is required for the election of directors  
in uncontested elections.  
 » Proxy access is permitted for a shareholder or a  
group of up to 20 shareholders owning at least 3% of  
our common stock for at least three years to submit  
director nominees.  
 » All members of our Audit Committee are considered  
financial experts.  
 » We have robust stock ownership guidelines for our  
Board and senior management.  
 » Executive compensation is benchmarked annually  
by a third party and is designed in a manner to not  
promote excessive risk-taking.  
 » The Board undertakes an annual self-evaluation process.
Additional details on the Board, its Committees, and 
their functions can be found in our 2021 Annual Proxy 
Statement . Committee charters can also be found at 
investors.ametek.com .Compliance and Risk Management
Assessing and mitigating risk is a key responsibility of AMETEK’s executive 
leadership team and the Board of Directors.  
Additionally, these leadership groups are responsible for ensuring proper legal, regulatory, and environmental  
compliance. To this end, a robust set of internal policies and procedures have been implemented and are available 
to all of AMETEK’s colleagues to help monitor and manage compliance across the company.
AMETEK’s Audit Committee has primary responsibility for overseeing risk management, while our entire Board and 
each of its Committees play an active role in risk management activities.
Internally, AMETEK employs an Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Committee made up of functional experts  
and senior business leaders. This Committee is focused on anticipating, identifying, prioritizing, managing  
and mitigating various risks facing the company. Enterprise risk includes any significant event or circumstance 
that could impact the achievement of our business objectives including strategic, operational, human capital,  
reporting, compliance, environmental, and reputational risks.  
The primary responsibility of the ERM Committee is to ensure that sound policies, procedures and practices  
are in place for the enterprise-wide management of the company’s material risks. As a result, the ERM Committee 
plays a critical role in helping drive AMETEK’s success and sustainability. 
Today, AMETEK’s risk management focus areas include, but are not limited to, the following: 
» Business Continuity Planning
» Country Concentration Risk
» Cybersecurity
» Environmental and Climate-Related Risk
» Geopolitical Risk
» Global Sourcing and Supply Chain Risk
» Pandemics
» Product and Technology Risk
» Response to Natural DisastersThe roles and responsibilities 
of our Board and its  
Committees are crucial to  
AMETEK’s success.
AMETEK’s ERM Committee 
meets each quarter and is  
responsible for reporting the  
results of their activities to  
the Audit Committee quarterly 
and the broader Board of  
Directors annually.13  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /   OUR CORE
Environmental and Climate-Related Governance and Risk Management
AMETEK’s governance and risk management structure provides oversight of environmental and  
climate-related risks and opportunities. Our decentralized businesses share our overarching commitment to 
reduce their environmental impact and make a better tomorrow.  
From the way we manufacture and deliver our products to how we interact with our customers and suppliers, our teams are expected to meet  
or surpass applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. Simultaneously, we strive to continuously improve the efficiency of 
our operations by minimizing the use of hazardous materials and reducing harmful emissions and waste.
Together, AMETEK’s Board of Directors and senior management work to plan for, address, and mitigate environmental and climate-related  
risks to our business. Environmental, social and governance (ESG) oversight, including climate-related initiatives, are managed internally  
at AMETEK by a cross-functional committee  including representatives from our Legal, Environmental Health and Safety, Human Resources, and 
Investor Relations functions. This committee meets regularly with our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Administrative Officer  
to review progress on our ESG initiatives.  
We work closely with our businesses to gather and report on relevant environmental data including scope 1 and scope 2 emissions, energy  
consumption and waste, and water usage. This committee also works with our business teams to identify and implement programs to  
help reduce our carbon footprint. Lastly, this committee is responsible for reporting our progress on key ESG initiatives to our employees,  
shareholders, and third-party rating firms.
AMETEK’s Governance/Nominating Committee has primary responsibility for overseeing environmental and climate-related risks for  
the company, and reports regularly to the full Board of Directors. For additional detail on AMETEK’s approach to climate-related  
governance and risk management, see AMETEK TCFD Disclosure  starting on page 37.14  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /   OUR CORE
/phone-volumeTraining and Annual Certifications
AMETEK employees, including its senior management team, are required to  
undertake specific training related to various risks associated with the business. 
All employees who interact with vendors or customers, or who have access to  
financial records, are required to annually certify their training and compliance  
with key AMETEK policies including the code of conduct, conflict of interest,  
and anti-corruption. 
Additionally, we employ mandatory cybersecurity training for all of AMETEK’s employees with email access. This  
training includes critical information on how employees can protect themselves against email scams and help minimize 
cybersecurity risks. All the employees of the businesses we acquire undergo the same cybersecurity training  
following acquisition. AMETEK financial professionals receive additional training on business email compromise, given  
their access to key banking and financial information.
Our annual anti-corruption training includes detailed information on the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK  
Anti-Bribery Act, and the UK Criminal Finance Act. This training is delivered through webinars led by our International 
Trade and Sanctions Counsel. All training is translated into 12 languages, recorded, and made accessible to  
AMETEK employees, so they can review the material as needed. We also provide an anti-corruption primer for new  
employees and an anti-corruption training for acquisitions to ensure they understand AMETEK’s business practices and 
code of conduct.Political Advocacy, Corruption and Bribery
As part of AMETEK’s commitment to its core value of Ethics and Integrity, 
the company has adopted strict policies and procedures. 
As reflected in our  Code of Conduct Policy , AMETEK does not allow the use of corporate  funds for the purpose 
of political advocacy, including campaign contributions. 
Additionally, we have outlined guidelines in our Code of Conduct Policy that prohibit the acceptance of kickbacks 
or bribes. AMETEK colleagues agree to never solicit or accept anything of value in return for taking improper  
action in the performance of their duties. Further, the company has adopted a separate Code of Ethical Conduct 
for its Chief Executive and Senior Financial Officers  to hold its leadership to even higher levels of ethical  
standards, given their significant roles and financial responsibilities.
AMETEK Hotline   
As part of our commitment to doing the right thing for all stakeholders and fostering an environment of ethical  
behavior, the company promotes open communication between AMETEK colleagues, their managers, and senior 
management. We encourage employees to report any concerns regarding conduct, policy violations, financial 
matters, safety issues, or other topics directly to their managers, Human Resources, or anonymously through the 
AMETEK Hotline. The AMETEK Hotline channels are communicated to every employee through the Code of  
Conduct  and are posted in each of the company’s global locations.
Toll-free from the U .S.: (800) 461-9330 * 
or www .ametekhotlin e.com 
*For specific country phone numbers outside the U.S., please visit the above website.  
15  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /   OUR STRATEGYOur Strategy, embodied in the AMETEK Growth Model, has proven successful, leading to strong, 
sustained growth and increased value for all of AMETEK’s stakeholders.
The AMETEK Growth Model  integrates the four growth strategies of  
Operational Excellence, New Product Development, Global and Market  
Expansion, and Strategic Acquisitions with a focus on cash flow  
generation and disciplined capital deployment. Attracting, retaining, and  
developing talent is critical to this model, as our employees are responsible  
for successfully driving these strategies. Our Strategy
16  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /   OUR STRATEGY
The AMETEK Growth Model is designed so that each strategic 
element reinforces the others to create greater impact and drive 
long-term sustainable growth.  
This can be seen through our asset-light business model and strong operational execution, which allow our businesses  
to generate tremendous cash flow. This cash flow supports the company’s capital deployment strategy focused on  
value-enhancing acquisitions, which ultimately drives sustainable, compounding growth and strong shareholder returns.  
Strong, sustainable cash flows also allow us to continue to reinvest back into our businesses through New Product  
Development and Global and Market Expansion strategies. 
As a global corporation, it is imperative that we provide our customers with support around the world. With operational  
campuses in Mexico, China, Serbia, the Czech Republic, and Malaysia, we efficiently manufacture our highly differentiated 
AMETEK’s robust leadership development  
process focuses on developing future  
business leaders by offering development  
opportunities and nurturing our employees 
for leadership roles within the organization.  
One key example of this is AMETEK’s Business 
Unit Manager Development Program, a multi-year 
training and development plan to develop future 
leaders to take on business unit manager roles. 
This program includes structured training as well 
as hands-on participation in key aspects of the 
AMETEK Growth Model.
The chart compares the performance of $100 invested in AMETEK, Inc., against the S&P 500 and S&P Industrials on 06/30/2006, including reinvestment of dividends.  
The 15-year compound annual growth rate for AMETEK’s total return to shareholders is 17%.products to serve our customers in multiple geographic locations. We also have sales and service centers of  
excellence worldwide that allow our businesses to showcase their latest technologies. These centers serve as 
hubs to reach new customers and provide quicker access for the servicing of our products. 
AMETEK’s sourcing capabilities are a core competency that add significant value to our businesses. Our global  
supply chain allows us to remain flexible and adapt to changing economic conditions, strengthening our ability to  
develop and deliver innovative solutions. This advantage is proving invaluable as the pandemic is causing  
disruptions in the global supply chain. During this challenging time, AMETEK is effectively navigating sourcing  
obstacles and delivering on commitments.
The AMETEK Growth Model is led by our Executive Office, which consists of seven executives with an average  
of 27 years of experience with the company. AMETEK relies on seasoned operating executives to manage and  
grow our niche, distributed businesses. These leaders and their teams provide strong domain expertise managing  
global businesses. AMETEK has a robust leadership development process to help ensure we are developing our  
future leaders to drive our growth.
$1,000
$800
$600
$200$400
$0
06/06 06/08 06/12 06/10 06/14 06/17 06/16 06/18 06/20 06/21
 AMETEK, Inc.        S&P 500 S&P Industrials06/07 06/09 06/11 06/13 06/15 06/19$1,047
$563
$461
$100$300$500$700$900$1,100
TOTAL RETURN TO SHAREHOLDERS17  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /   OUR STRATEGY
Prior to the Kaizen, each team member works 
through their assigned research and due diligence. 
This step is key to ensuring the event is a success.PRE-WORK
The group implements the action plan, checks on the 
progress of growth initiatives, and identiﬁes ways 
to sustain the work needed to accomplish the goals.SUSTAINMENT
The cross-functional team identiﬁes where 
the business stands, assessing its strengths,
weaknesses, opportunities, and threats.STRATEGIC ASSESSMENT
The team outlines improvement objectives, 
key deliverables, participants, and timelines.DEFINITION OF CHARTER
The team uncovers what the business wants 
to achieve. These targets are signiﬁcant improvement 
drivers that require differing views.STRETCH TARGETThis collaborative experience brings the team together 
for an intensive, multi-day working session to generate 
and start executing on a plan to achieve established 
stretch targets.KAIZEN EVENTEnabling Growth Through Kaizens
Kaizen, derived from the Japanese words “kai” and “zen” meaning  
“continuous improvement,” is a key internal process that helps drive AMETEK’s  
sustainable growth and which helps support our sustainability initiatives.  
Our businesses continuously conduct operational and growth Kaizen events  
to streamline current workflows, improve operational processes, and drive  
stronger levels of growth. Through Growth Kaizens, we aim to identify opportunities  
to accelerate growth through our new product development  
and global and market expansion strategies. This continuous 
improvement practice makes AMETEK a more sustainable 
company as we push our businesses to resist stagnation and 
complacency. Growth Kaizen focus areas include new product 
development, distribution channels, and global expansion  
into new markets.
18  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /   OUR STRATEGY
Sustainability and Climate Strategy
The AMETEK Growth Model is backed by our foundational belief in the  
importance of protecting the environment through how we operate  
our facilities, the products we provide our customers, and the support  
we provide to our local communities.   
Sustainability is an integral aspect of the core values that guide the way we do business.  
Underlying AMETEK’s core values is an ongoing commitment to serve as environmental stewards and protect 
the environment for future generations. This is also reflected in AMETEK’s approach to corporate governance 
and oversight of compliance and risk management. 
Additionally, because of AMETEK’s distributed operating structure, business leaders are responsible for  
measuring, managing, and working to reduce the environmental impact of their operations in support  
of AMETEK’s environmental targets. This structure allows each business to drive initiatives that support their 
most important business strategies. Each business has formed an Environmental Health and Safety team  
to provide oversight and ongoing support for the business’s efforts, which are centered around reducing energy 
and waste, as well as electrical and water usage, while improving overall operational efficiency. Each business 
regularly tracks and measures the progress of these initiatives, which are reported to leadership. 
 
Across AMETEK, our businesses are also committed to developing innovative products and solutions to help  
reduce carbon emissions, increase the use and adoption of renewable energy, and address the impacts of  
climate change. We have ongoing discussions about the environmental impact of our businesses and areas for 
improvement. Our leadership team is committed to ensuring environmental considerations are a critical  
component of interactions with our businesses and suppliers and that our manufacturing processes are  
sustainable and safe.
In this report, we provide disclosures aligned with the SASB  and TCFD  frameworks, which are provided on  
pages 35 and 37 respectively, to better communicate ESG performance. We also are establishing a greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emission reduction goal to reduce our combined scope 1 and 2 emissions by 40%, normalized to 
sales, by 2035, from a 2019 baseline.
$4,540$2,098
09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 19 18 20
Net Sales
( in millions )$428
09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18
$1,324
19 20
EBITDA
( in millions )09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20
Free Cash Flow
( in millions )$332
$1,207$73
09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18
Capital Deployed on Acquisitions
( in millions )
$1,850
19 20 21*
* YTD through 10/20/21~~19  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /   OUR PEOPLEAt AMETEK, we are committed to the health, safety, and 
well-being of our employees. Built on our strong foundation of 
ethical business practices, this commitment extends to 
all AMETEK colleagues around the world, their families, and 
those in the communities where we live and work. At AMETEK, 
we recognize that our employees are the driving force behind  
our sustainable future.Our People20  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /   OUR PEOPLE
Human Rights Policies
Along with creating a diverse and inclusive culture, AMETEK 
is committed to upholding fundamental human rights. Our 
Human Rights Policy  is guided by the belief that all people 
around the world should be treated with dignity, fairness  
and respect. To that end, these expectations are reflected  
in the AMETEK Code of Ethics and Business Conduct . 
Two of the key areas that guide our Human Rights Policy 
include:
Human Trafficking and Child Labor 
AMETEK is committed to ensuring our operations and supply 
chain are free of slavery and human trafficking. As stated  
in our Salient Human Rights issues statement , suppliers 
agree that their products and services comply with all  
applicable laws. Additionally, suppliers are required to certify 
that all materials incorporated into their products are sourced,  
processed and manufactured in compliance with human  
trafficking and slavery laws in the countries in which they  
operate. AMETEK is opposed to child labor and is committed  
to complying with all applicable laws.
Anti-Discrimination
AMETEK’s Human Rights Policy  strives to assure equal  
employment and advancement opportunities for all qualified 
people. We maintain appropriate standards of conduct in  
the workplace and are sensitive to the concerns of our diverse 
group of colleagues. Employment discrimination based on 
gender, race, disability, national origin, religion, age or sexual 
orientation is prohibited. We recognize that even where anti-  
discrimination laws exist, the gender wage gap and  
underrepresentation of women and minority groups in the 
workforce have proven to be persistent social problems. 
We communicate AMETEK’s approach to diversity, inclusion, 
and other workplace-related human rights through training 
and the activities of our business councils.Diversity and Inclusion
We understand the importance of developing a diverse and inclusive culture where everyone feels comfortable sharing their thoughts, 
ideas, and perspectives. Diverse and inclusive behavior drives innovation, growth, and greater opportunities for all employees.  
While we are encouraged by our progress, we continue to look for opportunities to improve diversity and inclusion across our company.  
Our hiring practices are geared toward identifying the most diverse set of candidates for open positions. Our training and development  
programs are focused on providing meaningful opportunities for personal and professional development. Our Business Councils seek  
to foster conversation and strengthen representation at all levels of the organization. And our charitable arm, the AMETEK Foundation,  
provides wide-ranging support to non-profit and educational organizations focused on increasing the representation of women and  
minorities in STEM-related fields.
  Non-diverse   |     DiverseAMETEK Diversity* 
(as of 06/30/21)
59% 41%
Nearly 50% of all new hires from 
2017 through 2020 were diverse.   
* Diverse is defined as female employees worldwide plus U.S.  
 male diverse employees. Female employees are 31% of total 
 AMETEK employees.
25%
27%
30%
34%
35%
17 18 19 20 21
Over 70% of all new entrants into  
AMETEK’s Management Incentive  
Plan from 2017 through 2020  
were diverse.
* Diverse Management includes female employees worldwide 
 plus U.S. male diverse employees who are part of AMETEK’s 
 Management Incentive PlanAMETEK Management Diversity* % 
(as of 06/30/21)21  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /   OUR PEOPLEHuman Capital Management
AMETEK recognizes that our people are critical to the sustainable  
growth of our company. We are focused on continuing to attract, retain  
and develop world-class talent by offering competitive compensation  
packages, strong growth and development opportunities, and highly  
competitive non-compensation benefits.
AMETEK provides benefits to help create a culture of health and well-being for our employees. These benefits 
include, but are not limited to, retirement plans, group insurance benefits and life insurance. These benefits  
also include a company-funded employee assistance program (EAP) for all global employees, which provides  
free expert mental health support for employees, and an integrated wellness program available in the U.S.  
This wellness program focuses on the mental, financial and physical health of employees and their families 
through assessments and programs. 
Additionally, key AMETEK managers participate in our Management Incentive Plan. The plan includes a  
short-term component that provides an opportunity to receive an annual cash award based on performance 
against company and individual goals; an element of this program is performance against diversity hiring  
goals. There is also a long-term component that provides an opportunity to receive AMETEK equity awards.  
The program is designed to align individual goals of the management team with that of the company and  
its shareholders.
To support the development of these future leaders, we have a robust leadership development program. We 
have also designed programs to develop and prepare our employees for future leadership roles. These  
programs include an internet-based training tool, leadership development programs and AMETEK University.AMETEK University 
This program allows business managers and  
employees nominated by their leadership  
teams to learn about AMETEK’s history, culture, Growth  
Model, and operating methods, all in a dynamic  
environment that encourages collaborative learning.  
Financial Management Program (FMP)  
This program offers recent finance and accounting graduates 
a three-year, immersive experience in which they develop 
leadership skills through rotational field assignments, classroom 
training, and networking events. Successful completion  
of the FMP prepares them for future leadership roles within  
AMETEK’s finance organization.
Apprenticeship and Internship Programs
AMETEK offers college-aged students and young  
professionals the opportunity to participate in  
paid apprenticeship and/or internship programs to gain  
hands-on experience and learn more about the company’s  
culture and operations.Leadership Development Program  
and Third-Party Assessments  
AMETEK partners with one of the world’s preeminent  
leadership development organizations to provide our future  
leaders with a week-long immersive leadership training  
experience. AMETEK also utilizes third-party leadership  
assessment tools to provide managers with valuable insights  
to help develop future leaders.
Engineering Development Program (EDP)
AMETEK annually recruits graduates from various 
disciplines including electrical, mechanical, 
material science, and aerospace engineering. Participants 
rotate to different AMETEK businesses each year to 
receive broad, varied experiences. 
Tuition Reimbursement
AMETEK offers tuition reimbursement up to a specified value  
per semester for employees pursuing an advanced degree  
or certification that will enhance their performance in their role at 
the organization. Employees’ reimbursement is directly  
correlated to performance in the designated classes or  
certification programs.
AMETEK has designed programs to develop and prepare our employees for 
future leadership roles, which include:
22  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /   OUR PEOPLE
Health and Safety
AMETEK takes the health and safety 
of our employees very seriously.  
Our ultimate goal is zero accidents  
in the workplace. Every member  
of our leadership team is responsible 
for enforcing health and safety  
standards. We are very pleased with our results and improvements, 
both overall and as benchmarked against industry  
standards. Our safety focus enables a sustainable  
workforce for today and the future. 
AMETEK’s Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) 
function is responsible for the programs, policies, and 
procedures that help protect both our colleagues  
and the people in the communities we serve. The EHS 
team is comprised of leaders within our corporate  
office and facility managers at each of our operating 
sites. Key EHS focus areas are tracked, monitored  
and reported to management monthly. Additionally, we 
conduct regular facility audits to ensure compliance and 
to identify additional opportunities for safety improve -
ments and environmental process improvements.  
Due to COVID-19 travel restrictions, we used various 
tools including virtual EHS assessments, hybrid audits, 
and when possible, on-site assessments to ensure  
the safety and well-being of our colleagues and a high 
level of compliance. As a result, there were no significant 
incidents in 2020.
Our sites have remained operational during the  
pandemic with the highest safeguards in place. For  
example, our facility in Subotica, Serbia was recognized 
for its safety efforts by the Directorate for Safety and 
Health and was the first company in Subotica that or -
ganized a COVID-19 vaccination program for employees.    
Along with these impressive performance metrics, at  
a higher-level, AMETEK’s EHS Policy Statement guides 
all our work.AMETEK’s EHS Policy Statement
» Meet or surpass the requirements of  
EHS laws and regulations wherever we  
do business around the world.
» Educate, empower, and expect all our  
colleagues to behave in ways that protect 
the environment and make health and  
safety a priority.
» Continuously strive to improve the  
efficiency of our operations to minimize 
both the use of materials and the  
generation of waste.
» Operate our facilities in a responsible  
and cooperative fashion in the communities 
where they reside.
» Continuously improve our EHS systems.
Supplier Code of Conduct
AMETEK has a Supplier Code of Conduct  for our  
supplier partners that specifies the behaviors, practices, 
and regulations AMETEK expects from all suppliers,  
with a focus on ethics, corporate responsibility, and 
compliance with applicable laws and regulations.  
AMETEK has processes in place to ensure suppliers  
are constantly monitored and evaluated against  
these criteria. 
11 12 13 14 15 16 171.08
18 19 20
0.20 0.90Industry Average
AMETEKLost Workday Incident Rate
( per 100 workers, per year )
106   sites experienced zero lost time incidents in 2020.23  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /   OUR PEOPLE
Social Responsibility is one of AMETEK’s  
core values. The AMETEK Foundation, AMETEK’s  
charitable giving arm, has been serving  
communities supported by our employees for  
the last 60 years and empowering employees  
to make a positive impact in their local  
communities through their volunteerism, talent, 
and financial contributions. 
Through the AMETEK Foundation and our colleagues’ 
worldwide volunteer efforts, we support local, national, 
and global organizations in the areas where we do  
business. Specifically, we support programs focused 
on health and welfare; civil and social service; arts and 
culture; and education, with an emphasis on reading  
and writing as well as science, technology, engineering,  
and math (STEM) for underserved students. In the past five years, the AMETEK Foundation has 
supported approximately 220 organizations including 
the United Way, Black Girls Code, the Juvenile Diabetes 
Research Foundation, and Science Explorers, providing 
our employees with the opportunity to support the  
organizations that matter most to them. The AMETEK 
Foundation also partners with many colleges and  
universities to provide scholarships and grants to help 
support diverse engineering students.
We also recently launched our #AMETEKCares  
campaign to be better stewards in our communities 
through volunteering efforts. As a result, AMETEK’s 
businesses and corporate offices have volunteered  
to make their communities better places to live and 
work. For example, prior to COVID-19, our corporate 
office in Berwyn, Pennsylvania, held an in-person  
#AMETEKCares event at Cradles to Crayons  
Philadelphia, which provides everyday essentials to  
the more than 70,000 children living in poverty in the 
region. Our volunteers also donated additional clothes, 
diapers and toys to help during the holiday season. Feeding America : As the largest hunger-relief organization 
in the U.S., Feeding America serves a network of 200 food 
banks and 60,000 food pantries and meal programs across  
the country. 
Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) : In response to the 
COVID-19 crisis, IRCS is providing food, essentials, and  
PPE in Bangalore, India, where AMETEK has a significant  
operating presence.
PHL COVID-19 Fund : AMETEK supported the PHL 
COVID-19 Fund, led by the Philadelphia Foundation and the 
United Way, to provide funding to non-profit organizations 
serving at-risk populations including seniors, people with 
disabilities, and those experiencing homelessness who were 
disproportionately impacted by the pandemic.
Red Cross of Serbia : In the city of Subotica, where  
AMETEK has a manufacturing facility, the Red Cross of  
Serbia operates a public kitchen, providing meals to those  
in need. The kitchen is one of the largest of its kind in  
Serbia, serving hundreds of families, with increased efforts  
due to the pandemic.
Vision to Learn : AMETEK provided surplus masks, gloves 
and hand sanitizer to Vision to Learn, a long-time partner of the 
AMETEK Foundation. These critical supplies allowed the  
organization to continue its operations with the Philadelphia 
Eagles Eye Mobile to provide free eye exams and prescription 
glasses to children in need throughout the Philadelphia  
region near AMETEK’s headquarters.Foundation, Inc.
6060caringyears of  COVID-19 and the  
AMETEK Foundation
The AMETEK Foundation  
also supported various worldwide  
non-profit organizations that  
provide direct COVID-19 relief in  
the communities they serve. 
The organizations supported through these efforts include,  
but are not limited to:
Bancos de Alimentos de Mexico (BAMX) : BAMX  
supports 55 food banks across Mexico. The AMETEK  
Foundation is contributing to the BAMX food bank based in 
Reynosa, Mexico, where the company has a significant  
operating presence.
Cradles to Crayons Philadelphia : Partnering with  
social service providers across the Philadelphia region,  
Cradles to Crayons provides everyday essential items to 
children living in poverty and suffering from homelessness. 
Through its recently established Emergency Essentials  
Fund, the organization is providing diapers, hygiene items  
and activity packs for children affected by the COVID-19  
pandemic.
Direct Relief : As a humanitarian aid organization, Direct  
Relief provides personal protective equipment (PPE) and  
essential medical items to healthcare workers in the U.S. and 
around the world. Direct Relief’s mission is to improve the 
health and lives of people affected by poverty or emergencies, 
without regardto politics, religion, or ability to pay.
24  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /   OUR PEOPLESustainability Initiatives
AMETEK is continuously focused on reducing our environmental footprint and 
helping create a sustainable future. In the past several years, we have  
implemented a variety of initiatives to help our businesses reduce their scope 1 
and scope 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. We have also taken steps to  
reduce our use of energy and water, as well as our waste output. 
Even during the pandemic, our facilities continued to focus on operational efficiency and reduced our energy and water 
use. Our total energy usage in 2020 was 331.6 million kilowatt hours (kWh) and combined scope 1 and 2 emissions were 
110,000 metric tons (Mt). Through various source reduction efforts, we reduced our energy consumption by 48 million 
kWh, a 13% reduction versus 2019 levels, and our absolute, combined scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by approximately 
16,400 Mt, a 13% reduction versus 2019 levels.      
Additionally, our manufacturing processes do not utilize large volumes of water, so we continued to see reductions  
in this area. In 2020, we consumed approximately 168.4 million gallons of water, a reduction of 4.4 million gallons from  
2019 levels.
In 2020, we also initiated a data collection process to track the volume of hazardous waste, recycled hazardous waste, 
and total recyclables such as plastic, paper and cardboard generated by our manufacturing sites. We continuously 
strive to reduce waste volume and improve our recycling efforts through our various Operational Excellence initiatives. 
We also ensure our wastes are properly handled and disposed of through our corporate governance process.
Along with monitoring our overarching environmental impact, we are setting ESG goals in 2021 to drive action on our  
ESG initiatives. We have established a goal to reduce our combined scope 1 and scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions by 
40%, normalized to sales, by 2035, from a 2019 baseline.AMETEK’s Environmental Data
Hazardous Waste (Mt) Recycled Hazardous Waste (Mt) Total Recycled Materials (Mt)
1,103.7 121.8 3,490.2Topic 2019 Data / Response 2020 Data / Response
Emissions  (Metric Tons CO 2e)
Total Scope 1 GHG Emissions * 31.4k 24.3k
Total Scope 2 GHG Emissions 95.0k 85.7k
Total Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions 126.4k 110.0k
Energy  (Kilowatt Hours  )
Total Energy Usage 380.0m 331.6m
From Renewable Sources 23.0m 20.6m
From Non-Renewable Sources 357.0m 311.0m
Total Electrical Usage 240.0m 215.0m
Percent from the Grid 100% 100%
Water  (Gallons)
Total Water Usage 172.8m 168.4m
Fleet  (Gallons)
Total Fleet Fuel Consumption 601.7k 285.0k
* Consumption from fuel used at our facilities and by our fleet.25  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /   OUR PEOPLE
To highlight the importance and impact of our sustainability efforts, AMETEK 
created the Elizabeth R. Varet Sustainability Award. This award helps  
bring visibility to the company’s best environmental sustainability projects  
and promote healthy competition in driving sustainability improvements.
The award was named after Elizabeth R. Varet, who retired from AMETEK’s Board of Directors in 2021 following  
34 years of service. Ms. Varet was a key influence on the core values that guide our efforts in the areas of  
        social responsibility, corporate philanthropy, stewardship, and governance, so this 
             award is a very fitting tribute to her legacy.
                   Projects eligible for the award must achieve improvements in one or more  
         of the following areas: energy efficiency, carbon emission reduction, waste  
           management improvements, scrap reduction, and waste reuse or  
             recycling. Projects are evaluated on significant and measurable  
              improvements regarding environmental impact, such as pollution  
               prevented, implementation of renewable energy sources, or a 
               reduction in energy, waste, or water. 
In the award’s inaugural year, we had two winners. 
The first was Micro-Poise, a business unit in  
Streetsboro, OH. Their cross-functional team  
implemented a 4R sustainability initiative using the 
Reduce, Reuse, Recycle and Recover model.  
Its focus was to measure and make immediate  
improvements in energy conservation and waste  
reduction. The team implemented a number of  
projects such as LED lighting replacement, high-  
efficiency HVAC system installations, and improved 
building insulation to reduce their total energy usage 
and carbon emissions.
     The second winner was AMETEK’s Programmable 
Power business based in San Diego, CA.  
Programmable Power worked closely with their 
building owner to install a 973-panel photovoltaic 
system on the facility’s rooftop. The renewable  
system, which came online in January of 2020,  
provides a portion of the facilities energy supply, 
resulting in lower energy costs and emissions. 
Elizabeth R. Varet26  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /   OUR SOLUTIONS
Our Solutions
For more than 90 years, AMETEK has invested in innovative 
technologies to solve our customers’ most complex challenges. 
Through our research, development and engineering efforts— 
along with strategic acquisitions — our portfolio of differentiated 
products and solutions has grown significantly. Many of these 
products and solutions are creating a more sustainable future by 
supporting environmentally focused applications across a diverse 
set of markets. 
From solutions aimed at improving health care outcomes to 
electric vehicle testing instrumentation and embedded computing 
systems used in renewable energy production, AMETEK  
partners with customers to develop sustainable solutions with 
specialized technology. In this section, we highlight some of  
AMETEK’s products that help in the effort to improve the quality 
of life and the environment.27  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /   OUR SOLUTIONS
Improving Patient Outcomes
Rauland’s Responder® solutions allow hospitals and other 
health care facilities to create and optimize their workflows and 
critical communications. These connected solutions support 
improved efficiency and higher levels of safety and satisfaction 
for patients and staff, which has become increasingly important 
due to the influx of hospital patients throughout the pandemic. 
The Responder series helps nurses and hospital staff monitor 
patient behavior and automates the regular check-in  
process with patients. This process, coupled with Rauland’s 
communication technology, promotes fall prevention because 
the ease of the system makes patients more apt to contact  
their caretakers rather than trying to move on their own.  
Additionally, Rauland’s bedside applications are connected to 
the hospital’s nurse call system, so staff know when a patient 
is trying to leave their bed and can directly and immediately 
communicate with the patient while care providers are on  
their way. 
Responder from Rauland28  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /   OUR SOLUTIONS
Enabling Wind Farm Power
The decarbonization of power generation is a critical issue 
facing society. Offshore wind is quickly becoming a more 
cost-viable renewable energy source, thanks largely to high-  
voltage direct-current (HVDC) transmission systems. These  
systems provide a long-term solution for power transmission  
by connecting power grids across long distances. For  
example, many large offshore wind farms transmit power to 
land via HVDC transmission systems, where the power is  
then converted back to AC power, ultimately supplying  
electric grids.
However, the technology that powers HVDC systems requires 
precise, real-time data control to safely regulate and transfer 
energy with minimal losses. To achieve its renewable energy 
goals, one of the world’s largest wind farms, located off the 
coast of the U.K., is using an embedded computing solution  
from Abaco Systems as part of its HVDC solution. This  
embedded computing card plays a critical role in the  
transmission process as it helps provide real-time control  
of the farm’s wind power. Through this wind farm, Abaco  
will help fully power more than one million homes for decades 
to come.
Embedded computing card from Abaco Systems29  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /   OUR SOLUTIONS
Ensuring Electric Vehicle Safety
Over the last several years, global demand for electric vehicles (EVs) has grown significantly as eco-conscious consumers  
want to power their vehicles through renewable energy. EVs employ cutting-edge electrical and electronic technologies  
to manage every aspect of performance and safety. However, these systems can both generate and become susceptible to 
electrical disturbances, causing operating issues. For instance, EV manufacturers utilize high-voltage systems to power the 
car’s drivetrain and other internal processes, like safety, comfort, and convenience features. This power system can generate 
significant electrical interference during the vehicle’s activity, like accelerating, braking, or cruising.
To prevent these interferences and ensure the safety of passengers, manufacturers utilize AMETEK Compliance Test Solutions 
(CTS) instrumentation to generate electrical disturbances in order to test for weaknesses in voltage components and systems.  
AMETEK CTS has launched two new products to perform these internationally mandated tests - PowerWave and RippleNX, 
which enable manufacturers to ensure proper performance in EV’s before they go to market.
Looking ahead, with the emergence of self-driving cars, AMETEK CTS anticipates that enhanced safety standards will  
require new test and measurement instrumentation to precisely generate and test electrical disturbances. AMETEK CTS is 
poised to play an important role in helping manufacturers produce the safest experience possible for EV and self-driving 
vehicle consumers.PowerWave from AMETEK’s  
Compliance Test Solutions30  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /   OUR SOLUTIONS
Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions
 
Reducing emissions of greenhouse gases and other harmful 
pollutants is a growing priority for power producers,  
hydrocarbon processing plants, and many other industries. 
Operators want to improve the efficiency of these processes 
to be more ecologically responsible while meeting heightened 
environmental regulations focused on reducing emissions. 
AMETEK Process Instruments provides gas analysis  
solutions that allow end users to improve process efficiency, 
measure and reduce pollutants, and enhance the manufacturing 
of high-purity products. The WDG-V combustion analyzer  
measures oxygen, combustibles and methane to optimize  
processes and reduce emissions to help customers achieve 
their sustainability targets. In addition, the 9900 Gas Analyzer is 
part of a suite of Continuous Emission Monitoring (CEM)  
analyzers that provide real-time measurements to support 
cleaner operations, reduced emissions, and regulatory  
compliance.
WDG-V Combustion Analyzer  
from AMETEK 
Process Instruments
9900 Gas Analyzer from
AMETEK Process Instruments
31  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /   OUR SOLUTIONS
Enabling Improved Aerospace  
Fuel Efficiency
Recent environmental regulations and sustainability  
commitments have pushed aircraft manufacturers to  
implement standards that deliver more fuel efficiency and 
lower carbon emissions. One of the most important ways  
to achieve this goal is through enhanced engine performance, 
which, among other systems, has contributed to improved 
fuel consumption of more than 70% since the inception of the 
jet engine.
AMETEK Sensors and Fluid Management Systems (SFMS) 
has been a key innovator in this market by manufacturing a 
variety of engine and aircraft sensors that help the aircraft 
industry pursue more optimal engine performance. The SFMS 
Exhaust Gas Temperature (EGT) thermocouple is often  
used as a basis for regulating engine performance and has a 
large impact on fuel burned during operation. 
SFMS designed the EGT thermocouple to adapt to the  
engine’s ever-increasing exhaust gas temperatures, which 
can exceed 2,000°F. With superior functionality and  
accuracy, the SFMS EGT thermocouple is a direct  
contributor to engine life extension and operational efficiency, 
which saves fuel and reduces carbon emissions.
EGT thermocouple from AMETEK’s Sensors and Fluid  
Management Systems32  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /   OUR SOLUTIONS
Protecting Our Water Systems
To ensure the safety of our water systems, including the  
proper treatment of wastewater, it is vital to detect trace 
elements during the treatment process. AMETEK SPECTRO’s 
SPECTROGREEN inductively coupled plasma optical  
emission spectrometer (ICP-OES) is widely used to analyze 
water and wastewater for harmful trace elements or  
chemicals. SPECTROGREEN provides ultra-reliable, accurate 
analyses of elements not only in water and wastewater,  
but in soil as well.
 
SPECTROGREEN also analyzes biofuels in the biomass-to- 
fuels process and, increasingly is used in the reclamation 
of critical components from waste, such as recovery and 
recycling of phosphate from sewage, as well as from other 
effluents. This product is one of many solutions from AMETEK  
SPECTRO that help support important sustainability initiatives 
and allow our customers to achieve their sustainability  
targets and lessen their environmental impact.
SPECTROGREEN from SPECTRO33  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /   OUR SOLUTIONS
Advancing the Understanding  
of Climate Change
Proactively understanding climate change is one of the major 
challenges of our time. Highly advanced microanalytical  
instruments, such as Secondary Ion Mass Spectrometers 
(SIMS) from AMETEK CAMECA, provide scientists with  
important answers. One such CAMECA instrument, the  
NanoSIMS, has been key to a wealth of environmental studies 
carried out by marine microbiologists, soil scientists,  
botanists, and paleoclimatologists.  
Researchers at the University of Gothenburg in Sweden are 
currently investigating the effects of changing winter  
conditions in the sub-Arctic. The NanoSIMS allows them to 
track life-sustaining elements, such as nitrogen, to provide 
insights into the impact of climate change. CAMECA also 
provides high-end characterization instruments used in such 
areas as medical and life sciences and recently worked 
with Harvard University researchers to investigate the  
dynamic state of living tissue.
NanoSIMS 50L from CAMECA34  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT   /   OUR CORE
Helping Monitor and Reduce  
Air Pollutants
 
To properly monitor air quality in both metropolitan and  
commercial environments, municipalities and businesses  
continuously monitor hazardous air pollutants to ensure the 
safety of residents and employees, respectively. Many of them 
rely on AMETEK MOCON’s Baseline gas monitoring analyzers, 
which collect information by measuring select greenhouse 
gases, low-level toxic compounds, and hazardous air pollutants 
such as benzene and volatile organic compounds (VOCs).  
These analyzers detect trace levels of harmful pollutants, many 
of which are not normally measurable outside of a lab. The 
Baseline analyzers are used in ambient air stations around  
metropolitan areas as well as in fence-line monitoring systems 
at industrial and hazardous waste sites. 
The data provided by Baseline analyzers ensures that emissions 
do not exceed EPA or local government permissible limits,  
and that unknown tank leaks, which could be harmful to the  
environment and air quality, do not go undetected. With this 
data, customers can take immediate action to reduce air 
pollution and prevent further leaks, providing clean, safe air 
conditions for those nearby. 
 
Baseline 9100 Gas Chromatograph from MOCON35  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    /   AMETEK SASB PROFILE REPORTAMETEK SASB Profile Report
Introduction
The SASB Standards identify industry-specific ESG  
risks and opportunities and provide associated metrics 
that can be used to measure, manage and communicate 
ESG performance in a consistent, comparable and 
reliable way. We have consolidated the SASB disclosure 
topics that are relevant to our business in this SASB 
Profile Report to make it easier for our stakeholders to 
access our financially relevant ESG information. 
AMETEK has utilized the industry-specific sustainability 
accounting standards contained within the SASB 
Electrical & Electronic Equipment Standard (RT-
EE Version 2018-10), which is in line with SASB’s 
classification of AMETEK via its Sustainable Industry 
Classification System® (SICS®). Disclosure topics 
include Energy Management; Hazardous Waste 
Management; Product Safety; Product Lifecycle 
Management; Materials Sourcing; and Business Ethics.SASB CODE ACTIVITY METRIC AMETEK RESPONSE
ENERGY MANAGEMENT
RT-EE-130a.1 (1) Total energy consumed
(2) Percentage grid electricity
(3) Percentage renewableEnergy Data 2019 2020
(1) Total energy consumed 1,368,0000 GJ (380.0m kWh) 1,193,760 GJ (331.6m kWh)
(2) Percentage grid electricity 100% 100%
(3) Percentage renewable 9.58% (23.0m kWh) 9.62% (20.6m kWh)
Our energy consumption data can be found in our Environmental Data  and is collected from manufacturing,  
sales and service support facilities globally. AMETEK has financial and operational control over these facilities.
HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT
RT-EE-150a.1 Amount of hazardous waste generated, percentage recycledHazardous Waste 2020 
Total waste (Mt) 1,103.7 
Percentage recycled (%) 11%
AMETEK monitors our hazardous waste disposal through waste manifests. Additionally, all facilities are 
encouraged to have good waste management practices and required to have appropriate licenses and permits. 
AMETEK ensures compliance with local, state and federal regulations through audits.
RT-EE-150a.2 Number and aggregate quantity of reportable spills, quantity 
recoveredIn 2020, AMETEK had no reportable spills.
PRODUCT SAFETY
RT-EE-250a.1 Number of recalls issued, total units recalled None.
RT-EE-250a.2 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings 
associated with product safetyIn 2020, AMETEK had no monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with product safety.
PRODUCT LIFECYCLE MANAGEMENT
RT-EE-410a.1 Percentage of products by revenue that contain IEC 62474 
declarable substancesAMETEK’s supply agreements require that material purchased by AMETEK will not contain any substances 
included on the RoHS or REACH lists. However, AMETEK does not specifically track IEC 62474 declarable 
substances in the products it purchases.
RT-EE-410a.2 Percentage of eligible products, by revenue, that meet ENERGY 
STAR® criteriaNot applicable. At this time, ENERGY STAR® criteria has limited applicability given our business-to-business 
focus.
RT-EE-410a.3 Revenue from renewable energy-related and energy efficiency-
related productsAt this time, AMETEK does not track the revenue from renewable energy-related and energy efficiency-related 
products.36  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    /   AMETEK SASB PROFILE REPORTSASB CODE ACTIVITY METRIC AMETEK RESPONSE
MATERIALS SOURCING
RT-EE-440a.1 Description of the management of risks associated with the use 
of critical materialsAMETEK continuously evaluates critical material risks in our supply chain and integrates information from the 
evaluation into our business continuity plans. We work to balance costs and risks related to the changing 
market and supply. Most critical material used has second sources available. If material is single-sourced, we 
utilize mitigation plans for the continuity of supply. This is accomplished through our 1) Strategic Supply Chain 
organization which constantly monitors market availability and geopolitical concerns, 2) our stocking strategies 
for material that is deemed ‘at risk’, and 3) efforts to qualify multiple sources for material whenever possible. In all 
situations, we implement appropriate risk mitigation efforts for the availability of material supply.  
 
AMETEK follows its Supplier Code of Conduct , which sets clear expectations related to employment standards, 
worker safety, environmental compliance, ethical business conduct and material compliance. The Supplier Code 
of Conduct is standard in all our purchase agreements.
Additional information can be found in our Overview of Environmental, Health & Safety Management Programs  
and our Conflict Minerals  report. 
BUSINESS ETHICS
RT-EE-510a.1 Description of policies and practices for prevention of: 
(1) corruption and bribery, and 
(2) anti-competitive behavior(1) AMETEK prohibits the acceptance of kickbacks or bribes. Colleagues are prohibited from soliciting or 
accepting anything of value in return for taking improper action in the performance of their duties.
(2) AMETEK is committed to fair and open competition in the markets it serves around the world. All AMETEK 
colleagues are expected to comply with the antitrust/competition laws of the countries in which AMETEK does 
business.
Additional information can be found in our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct .
RT-EE-510a.2 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings 
associated with bribery or corruptionIn 2020, AMETEK did not have any monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with bribery or 
corruption.
RT-EE-510a.3 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings 
associated with anti-competitive behavior regulationsIn 2020, AMETEK did not have any monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with anti-
competitive behavior regulations.AMETEK SASB Profile Report (page 2)37  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    /   AMETEK TCFD DISCLOSUREAMETEK TCFD Disclosure
Introduction
AMETEK is committed to accelerating the transition to 
a low-carbon future and supporting the clean energy 
economy by solving our customers’ most complex 
challenges with differentiated technology solutions. 
To that end, we have prepared this report to disclose 
our actions around climate governance, strategy, risk 
management, and metrics and targets in line with the 
recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD). By taking this approach, 
we aim to show how we are positioning AMETEK to 
support the goal of the Paris Agreement on climate 
change to limit the increase in global temperature to 
below 2°C above preindustrial levels by the end of the 
century. This is our first TCFD-aligned report, and we 
plan to update it in the future as we make progress and 
new information becomes available.GOVERNANCE
Disclose the organization’s governance around climate-related risks and opportunities.
a)  Describe the Board’s oversight 
of climate-related risks and 
opportunities.In accordance with NYSE rules and AMETEK’s Audit Committee’s charter, our Audit Committee has primary responsibility for overseeing overall risk management 
for AMETEK. Our sustainability initiatives, including oversight of climate risks and opportunities, are overseen by the Governance/Nominating Committee. The full 
Board receives regular reports from the Audit Committee and the Governance/Nominating Committee regarding risk management activities, including climate-
related activities.
AMETEK and our Board of Directors are committed to legal, regulatory and environmental compliance. To support this framework, management has developed a 
robust set of internal policies and procedures, which are made available to all employees to help monitor and manage compliance across our enterprise.
b)  Describe management’s role in 
assessing and managing climate-
related risks and opportunities.Our ERM Committee, composed of senior executives, including the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Administrative 
Officer, and the Group Presidents, reviews our enterprise risks. The Committee has an annual process that determines the most important enterprise risks based 
on severity, likelihood and ability to mitigate, and in turn develops action plans to address the risks. Enterprise risks include any significant event or circumstance 
that could impact the achievement of our business objectives. These risks include, among other things, strategic, operational, human capital, SEC reporting, 
compliance, reputational, and environmental, social, and governance (“ESG”), including climate-related risks. For example, the team considers the impact of 
natural disasters and resource shortages on AMETEK’s facilities (i.e., severe weather effects and water availability). The ERM Committee’s findings are presented 
to the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis and to the full Board of Directors annually. Management’s strategic planning growth process manages business 
opportunities, including climate-related opportunities.
STRATEGY
Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning.
a)  Describe the climate-related risks 
and opportunities the organization 
has identified over the short, 
medium, and long term.AMETEK’s ERM Committee ensures sound policies, procedures and practices are in place for the enterprise-wide management of the company’s significant risks 
over the short, medium, and long term. The Committee is responsible for reporting results of these activities to the Board of Directors, its Audit Committee, and 
its Governance/Nominating Committee. Risk management focus areas include, but are not limited to: 
•  Business Continuity Planning
• Country Concentration Risk
•  Cybersecurity
• Environmental and Climate-Related Risk
• Geopolitical Risk
• Global Sourcing and Supply Chain Risk  
• Pandemics
• Product and Technology Risk
• Response to Natural Disasters
AMETEK identifies short-, medium- and long-term time horizons for climate-related risk and opportunity planning as 0-1 year, 1-5 years, and 5-10 years, 
respectively. We have analyzed the impact that climate change may have on our business over these time horizons and identified the climate-related risks 
and opportunities most likely to affect our global operations. At this time, we do not believe that climate-related risks are material to our operations, given our 
distributed business model, the location and diversity of our manufacturing facilities, and our risk mitigation efforts.
Growth opportunities are identified in our strategic planning process, which includes new product development. Our new product development process focuses 
on developing innovative products and solutions to help solve our customers’ most complex challenges, including reducing carbon emissions, increasing the use 
and adoption of renewable energy, and addressing the impacts of climate change. Our product portfolio encompasses products with a short-, medium- or long-
term life cycle, including products addressing the impacts of climate change, as highlighted in the Our Solutions section of this Report.38  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    /   AMETEK TCFD DISCLOSURETYPE CLIMATE-RELATED RISKS AMETEK RESPONSE
Transition 
RisksPolicy and Legal
• Enhanced emissions-
reporting obligations 
• Mandates on and regulation 
of existing products and 
servicesWe do not forecast that enhanced emissions-reporting obligations will have 
a material impact on our company. While we understand that the timing and 
magnitude of climate-related regulatory drivers vary across the geographies in 
which we operate, our approach to managing climate-related transition risks is 
consistent across our global operations.
Technology
• Substitution of existing 
products and services with 
lower emissions optionsWe believe that changes in technology will not outpace our ability to respond to 
them. Our products and services already support the transition to a low-carbon 
economy, and we can address changing demand to deliver more renewable 
energy technologies to our customers as the need arises. 
Market
•  Changing customer behavior
•  Increased cost of raw 
materialsWe stay ahead of changing customer behavior by partnering with customers 
to develop sustainable solutions that meet their specific needs. Supply chain 
disruptions are not likely to have a material long-term impact either, as our 
global supply chain allows us to remain flexible and adapt to changing economic 
conditions, including raw material costs. Our technically differentiated product 
portfolio allows us to adjust pricing to offset the increased costs of raw materials.
Reputation
• Increased stakeholder 
concern or negative 
stakeholder feedbackStakeholders are increasingly focused on climate-related matters. We are 
committed to addressing long-term climate-related risks and reducing our climate 
impact. We are pleased to publish this inaugural TCFD report, and we plan to 
continue to provide our stakeholders with our climate strategy through TCFD-
aligned disclosures in the future.
Physical  
RisksAcute
• Increased severity of extreme 
weather events such as 
cyclones and floodsWhile we may experience a loss in productivity or working days due to extreme 
weather, AMETEK has developed robust continuity plans to safeguard our 
facilities and employees against significant impacts. In the event we experience 
an extreme weather event, the distributed nature of our footprint, our robust 
contingency plans, and insurance programs should allow us to mitigate material 
financial loss.
Chronic
• Rising mean temperatures
• Rising sea levelsCurrently, chronic physical changes to the climate are unlikely to pose a material 
impact to AMETEK in the long term as the majority of our operations are located 
in regions that are not flood-prone, or water- or temperature-stressed.  As we add 
new manufacturing facilities, we will re-evaluate future risk from these factors.TYPE CLIMATE-RELATED OPPORTUNITIES AMETEK RESPONSE
Resource 
Efficiency• Use of more efficient 
production and distribution 
processesKaizen is a key internal process that helps drive AMETEK’s sustainable growth. 
We are applying this concept to drive more efficient production and distribution 
processes which will have a positive impact on our carbon footprint as well as our 
operating costs.
Energy 
Source• Shift toward decentralized 
energy generationThe current shift toward decentralized energy generation plays into AMETEK’s 
current strategy of supporting distributed energy production and supply. Should 
the shift occur more rapidly, we may recognize additional sales of our existing 
distributed energy products.
Products  
and  
Services• Development and/or 
expansion of low emission 
goods and servicesWe are actively expanding our lines of products and services that help support 
renewable energy, emissions monitoring, and carbon reduction applications. 
Increased demand for these products resulting from a faster transition to a low-
carbon economy could drive revenue growth. For more information, see the Our 
Solutions section of this Report.
Markets • Access to new markets AMETEK is well-positioned to address changing market conditions resulting from 
climate change. Given our product development focus, we are able to address 
new market opportunities as they emerge.
Resilience • Resource substitutes/
diversificationWhile our reach is far, with over 150 operating locations in 31 countries, we are 
an asset-light manufacturing organization and not capital-intensive. As such, 
our business model has a built-in resilience to changing climate. Additionally, we 
operate a diversified supply chain which increases reliability and the ability to 
operate under changing conditions.  
 
 
 
 AMETEK TCFD Disclosure (page 2)39  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    /   AMETEK TCFD DISCLOSUREb)  Describe the impact of climate-
related risks and opportunities 
on the organization’s businesses, 
strategy and financial planning.Our strategic planning process, which includes robust financial planning, is implemented within each AMETEK business. This comprehensive process evaluates 
market attractiveness and our competitive positioning across our niche markets. Climate-related risks and opportunities are addressed through this strategy 
planning process. As an example, through our research, development and engineering efforts — along with strategic acquisitions — we are growing our portfolio 
of differentiated products and solutions to support the transition to a low-carbon future. Additionally, our ERM process provides oversight of climate-related risk 
and is integrated with our strategic planning process. For more information, see the Our Solutions section of this Report. 
c)  Describe the resilience of the 
organization’s strategy, taking into 
consideration different climate-
related scenarios, including a 2°C 
or lower scenario.As this is our inaugural TCFD report, we took a limited approach to assessing business resiliency under different climate scenarios. We qualitatively addressed 
the differing impacts of two scenarios, one in which the world transitions rapidly to a low-carbon economy and one in which business continues as usual. Given 
that our time horizon for strategic planning only spans ten years, physical risks from climate change are largely locked in as the amount of future global warming 
due to past emissions should not vary significantly over this timeframe.  As such, the change in impact of the two scenarios on our identified climate risks and 
opportunities is not expected to be significant.  In terms of transition risks, under a low-carbon economy scenario, the stricter regulations on greenhouse gas 
emissions and energy management over the next decade should drive AMETEK to increase investment in R&D on low-carbon energy-related opportunities, look 
for additional efficiency upgrades to our facilities, and further diversify our energy mix beyond what would be expected under a business-as-usual scenario. As 
part of our ERM process, we constantly evaluate changing regulations and policies in the jurisdictions in which we operate and can adjust our climate strategy as 
needed. We plan to engage in a more detailed, quantitative scenario analysis in the future to gain a better understanding of the impact on our identified climate-
related risks and opportunities.
MANAGING CLIMATE CHANGE RISK
Disclose how the organization identifies, assesses, and manages climate-related risks.
a)  Describe the organization’s 
processes for identifying and 
assessing climate-related risks.AMETEK has given our ERM committee the task of identifying and assessing enterprise risks, including climate-related risks. This committee, which meets 
quarterly, is composed of senior executives, including the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Administrative Officer, 
and the Group Presidents. The committee has a comprehensive approach to anticipate, identify, prioritize and manage climate-related risks to our organization. 
Climate-related risks are evaluated on whether they could impact the achievement of our business objectives, including strategic, operational, financial, human 
capital and compliance. The Governance/Nominating Committee of AMETEK’s Board of Directors has primary responsibility for overseeing environmental and 
climate-related risks for the company.
b)  Describe the organization’s 
processes for managing climate-
related risks.As described above, AMETEK has given our ERM committee the task of identifying and assessing enterprise risks, including climate-related risks. This 
committee, which meets quarterly, is composed of senior executives, including the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief 
Administrative Officer, and the Group Presidents. The committee has a comprehensive approach to anticipate, identify, prioritize and manage climate-related risks 
to our organization. Climate-related risks are evaluated on whether they could impact the achievement of our business objectives, including strategic, operational, 
financial, human capital and compliance.  AMETEK’s Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Department monitors and manages enterprise-wide environmental 
compliance, including climate-related processes, through policies and procedures, and reports periodically to the ERM committee. 
Additionally, because of AMETEK’s distributed operating structure, business leaders are responsible for measuring, managing, and working to reduce the 
environmental impact of their operations in support of AMETEK’s environmental targets. This structure allows each business to drive initiatives that support 
their most important business strategies. Each business has formed an Environmental Health and Safety team to provide oversight and ongoing support for the 
business’ efforts, which are centered around reducing energy and waste, as well as electrical and water usage while improving overall operational efficiency. Each 
business regularly tracks and measures the progress of these initiatives, which are reported to leadership.
c)  Describe how processes for 
identifying, assessing and 
managing climate-related risks are 
integrated into the organization’s 
overall risk management.As described above, AMETEK has given our ERM committee the task of identifying and assessing enterprise risks, including climate-related risks. Our EHS 
Management programs align with many of the ISO 14001 and 18001 (or 45001) principles and reflect our commitment to conducting business in a safe and 
environmentally responsible and sustainable manner. These programs meet or exceed compliance with applicable laws and regulations to promote continuous 
improvement in our operations. All facilities worldwide work towards consistent goals, applying the same metrics and identifying and sharing best practices. Key 
performance indicators are reported to our management team and senior business leaders on a monthly basis.AMETEK TCFD Disclosure (page 3)STRATEGY
STRATEGY (CONTINUED)40  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    /   AMETEK TCFD DISCLOSUREMETRICS AND TARGETS
Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities.
a)  Disclose the metrics used by the 
organization to assess climate-
related risks and opportunities 
in line with its strategy and risk 
management process.AMETEK tracks the following metrics relevant to climate-related risks and opportunities:
GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS (Mt CO2e) 2019 2020
Total Scope 1 GHG Emissions* 31.4k 24.3k
Total Scope 2 GHG Emissions 95.0k 85.7k
ENERGY (kWh) 2019 2020
Total Energy Usage 380.0m 331.6m
 From renewable sources 23.0m 20.6m
 From non-renewable sources 357.0 m 311.0m
Total Electrical Usage 240.0m 215.0m
 Percent from the grid 100% 100%
WATER (gallons) 2019 2020
Total Water Usage 172.8m 168.4m
TOTAL FLEET FUEL CONSUMPTION (gallons) 2019 2020
Total Fleet Consumption 601.7k 285.0k
WASTE (Mt) 2020
2020 Hazardous Waste 1,103.7
Percent Hazardous Waste Recycled 11%
*Consumption from fuel used at our facilities and by our fleet.
b)  Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if 
appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions and the 
related risks.AMETEK discloses the following emissions data: 
EMISSIONS TYPE 2019 2020
Total Scope 1 GHG Emissions (Mt CO2e) 31.4k 24.3k
Total Scope 2 GHG Emissions (Mt CO2e) 95.0k 85.7k
We will consider evaluating our Scope 3 emissions in the future.
c)  Describe the targets used by the 
organization to manage climate-
related risks and opportunities and 
performance against targets.We have established a goal to reduce our combined Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions by 40%, normalized to sales, by 2035, from a 2019 baseline.AMETEK TCFD Disclosure (page 4)41  2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT    /   ABOUT THIS REPORTAbout This Report
Forward-Looking Information: Statements in this report related to future events, such as AMETEK’s expected business and 
financial performance, are “forward-looking statements.” Forward-looking statements are subject to various factors and 
uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ significantly from expectations. These factors and uncertainties include risks 
related to COVID-19 and its potential impact on AMETEK’s operations, supply chain, and demand across key end markets; 
AMETEK’s ability to consummate and successfully integrate future acquisitions; risks with international sales and operations 
including supply chain disruptions; AMETEK’s ability to successfully develop new products, open new facilities or transfer product 
lines; the price and availability of raw materials; compliance with government regulations including environmental regulations; 
changes in the competitive environment or the effects of competition in our markets; the ability to maintain adequate liquidity and 
financing sources; and general economic conditions affecting the industries we serve. A detailed discussion of these and other 
factors that may affect our future results is contained in AMETEK’s filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission 
including its most recent reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K. AMETEK disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise 
any forward-looking statements.
This report is dated as of October 20, 2021, and unless otherwise noted, the information in this report is as of October 20, 2021.  
All financial information in this report is limited to continuing operations and is reported in U.S. dollars. 
Uncertainties are inherent in collecting data from a wide range of facilities and operations in a global company such as AMETEK. 
The data included in this report (other than audited financial data) are good faith-estimates and have not been externally audited. 
This report has been reviewed by AMETEK’s Audit Services group.» 
» 
 » Corporate Office
AMETEK, Inc.
1100 Cassatt Road
Berwyn, PA 19312-1177 U.S.A.
www.ametek.com
Investor Relations
investor.relations@ametek.com
investors.ametek.com/information-request
© 2021 by AMETEK, Inc.
 All rights reserved.
0M1021NP (010492)