Amgen 2010  
     Environmental 
            Sustainability  Report
2 Amgen 2010 Environmental Sustainability Report
A message from leadership   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .3
Our report on environmental sustainability   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .4
A pioneer in developing biotechnology medicines   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .5
Amgen’s plan for environmental sustainability   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .6
Our impact on the environment   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .7
 Our conservation targets   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .8
 Energy and CO2: understanding our carbon footprint   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .9
 Water: conserving a vital resource   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .12
 Waste: moving from recycling to reduction   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .13
 U .S . sales fleet: driving a more fuel-efficient fleet   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .15
Sustaining our business   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .16
Caring for the environment in our communities   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .17
Our greatest resource   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .19
Global Reporting Initiative index–Level C   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .21
Summary of data   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .23
Global Reporting Initiative Statement   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .28Table of contents
3 Amgen 2010 Environmental Sustainability Report
Our primary mission is to serve patients by developing innovative 
medicines for grievous illnesses  . We also strive to be a responsible 
corporate citizen and good neighbor  . 
We know that we must all do our part to tackle critical environmental 
issues, such as the effects of climate change and the depletion of 
natural resources  . We are executing a comprehensive environmental 
sustainability plan that represents Amgen’s long-term commitment  
to environmental responsibility  . Our plan is based on achieving four 
objectives: measure and reduce our environmental impact, build a culture 
of environmental awareness, sustain our business, and communicate our 
results .  The passion and enthusiasm of our staff help fuel our maturing 
enterprise-wide approach to environmental sustainability  .
We are proud of the progress we made in 2010, which is highlighted 
in this report  . We’ve already met several of our conservation targets 
ahead of schedule  . We know we have more to do—specifically, 
putting an even greater focus on integrating sustainable practices  
into our business right from the start: in our laboratories, in our 
manufacturing facilities, and in our supply chain  . Environmental 
sustainability makes good business sense; it’s an important 
investment in our future  . 
KEVIN W  . SHARER
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
ROBERT A  . BRADWAY
President and Chief Operating OfficerA message from 
   leadership
Kevin W. Sharer (left) and 
Robert A. Bradway2010 Report Highlights
Setting and meeting our targets
Amgen has been implementing projects and initiatives since 2008 
to meet 2012 conservation targets in the areas of energy and carbon 
dioxide, water, waste, and the fuel efficiency of our U  .S . sales fleet 
vehicles  . We have already met our water, energy, and waste (recycling) 
targets, and are on track to meet our remaining conservation targets  .
Ensuring the quality of our data
We established a sophisticated data management system in 2010 that 
we use to gather and assess environmental data from Amgen’s major 
manufacturing, research and development, and distribution facilities 
representing more than 90 percent of Amgen’s operations  .
Building environmental sustainability into 
the business of making medicines
In addition to our conservation efforts, we are beginning to integrate 
green practices into the core areas unique to the business of medical 
biotechnology such as how we research, manufacture, and package 
our medicines  .
Contributing to community well-being 
Through organized environmental volunteer activities, such as beach 
and park cleanups, and monetary support of nonprofit groups focused 
on environmental education and preservation, Amgen and the Amgen 
Foundation contribute to our communities  .
Staff members power our green efforts
Our innovative and motivated staff members engage with green 
initiatives such as recycling and composting, develop ideas for greater 
conservation, and share success across the Amgen network to 
advance our goals for environmental sustainability  .4 Amgen 2010 Environmental Sustainability Report
This is Amgen’s first annual environmental sustainability report, 
focused on our actions and performance in 2010  . 
We have prepared our report in alignment with Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) G3 Guidelines, which were developed to help 
companies standardize their sustainability reporting  . The GRI 
guidelines offer three levels of company reporting: A, B, and C  . 
We are reporting this year at a GRI Application Level C*, which 
includes environmental sustainability performance data in the areas 
of energy and carbon dioxide ( CO 2), water, and waste  . We also 
include fuel-efficiency data from our U  .S . sales fleet  . An index 
detailing the GRI content included in this report begins on page 21 . 
A third party completed an assessment of our environmental data 
systems, processes, and controls, which showed that they are sound . 
As we mature these systems and processes, we will move toward 
future third-party assurance  . 
The scope of the environmental data in our report includes 13 
manufacturing, research and development, and distribution 
facilities in North America, Europe, and Puerto Rico, as shown 
in the table on the right  . These facilities represent 93 percent of 
our operations based on the square footage of our facilities  . The 
remaining square footage primarily includes administrative offices  . 
We do not include environmental data from outsourced activities 
or suppliers in this report  .
The environmental performance highlighted in this report complements 
the financial performance detailed in our 2010 Annual Report and 
Financial Summary , and the philanthropic activities featured in 
our Amgen Foundation Charitable Contributions Report  . Together, 
these reports provide a broader, more informative picture of 
Amgen as a company  .Our report on 
  environmental sustainability
Sharing our performance and our progress
Developing and implementing a multiyear 
environmental sustainability plan requires 
commitment from every part of an organization  . 
The results we present in this report reflect 
the hard work and innovation of our dedicated 
staff at Amgen  . As we look to the future, that 
drive and dedication are stronger than ever  .  
— Liam Murphy, Vice President,  
Corporate Quality, Environment,  
Health, and SafetyOperational scope of the 
Amgen 2010 Environmental Sustainability Report
In scope
United States
Thousand Oaks, California Boulder and Longmont, Colorado
Cambridge, Massachusetts Fremont, California
West Greenwich, Rhode Island Juncos, Puerto Rico
Louisville, Kentucky Seattle and Bothell, Washington
South San Francisco, California Field Sales—U  .S . Fleet
Canada
Burnaby, British Columbia
Europe
Breda, Netherlands
Uxbridge and Cambridge, United Kingdom
Out of scope
Other global sales and administrative offices with minimal 
environmental impact
Outsourced activities, such as contract manufacturers and suppliers
We welcome your thoughts on our report through email at 
esfeedback@amgen  .com . Your comments support our ongoing goal 
of providing transparent communication about our environmental 
sustainability efforts  .
*GRI level check statement on page 28  .5 Amgen 2010 Environmental Sustainability ReportSince 1980, Amgen has been a pioneer, leader, and innovator in 
medical biotechnology  . Headquartered in Thousand Oaks, California, 
with facilities and partners in 50 countries, Amgen discovers, develops, 
and markets medicines that have helped millions of people around the 
world fight cancer, bone disease, kidney disease, rheumatoid arthritis, 
and other serious illnesses  . We aspire to reflect our mission to serve 
patients and improve human health in all the ways we conduct our 
business  . Managing our operations in an environmentally sustainable 
manner is consistent with this vision  . We have found that integrating 
environmental sustainability concepts into our business supports our 
corporate values and contributes positive benefits in the development 
of our products and in our company’s operations  . 
2010 company profile metrics
Net sales $14 .660 billion
“Adjusted” net income* $5 .024 billion 
“Adjusted” R&D expenses* $2 .773 billion
Number of staff 17,400
Countries in which Amgen 
operates 50
Political contributions (U  .S .)† $1 .144 million 
*“Adjusted” net income and “adjusted” R&D expenses are non-GAAP financial measures  . 
See page 27 for reconciliations to U  .S . Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP)  . 
Additional information regarding economic performance by Amgen is available in our 
2010 Annual Report and Financial Summary  .
†Additional information regarding political contributions by Amgen is available in the Summary 
of data section in this report and in the  Corporate Governance section at www  .amgen  .com .Recognition
Amgen received several industry awards in 2010  . In September, 
Amgen was awarded the 11th Annual International Prix Galien Prize 
for Best Biopharmaceutical Research and Development for Nplate® 
(romiplostim)  . Also, Amgen earned the Scrip  Award for Best New Drug, 
Prolia® (denosumab)  . In addition, Amgen was included on Fortune ’s 
list of the most admired companies and contenders in America  . 
In the area of environmental sustainability, local municipalities have 
recognized Amgen with numerous awards over the years in areas 
such as waste reduction, resource conservation, and wastewater 
discharge compliance . Details regarding these awards can be found 
in the Environmental Sustainability section at www  .amgen  .com .
Products
Aranesp® (darbepoetin alfa)
Enbrel® (etanercept)
EPOGEN® (Epoetin alfa)
Neulasta® (pegfilgrastim)
NEUPOGEN® (Filgrastim)
Nplate® (romiplostim)
Prolia® (denosumab)
Sensipar® (cinacalcet)
Vectibix® (panitumumab)
XGEVA™ (denosumab)
For additional information about Amgen’s products, including 
important safety information, visit www  .amgen  .com for links 
to the product websites  .A pioneer in developing 
   biotechnology medicines
6 Amgen 2010 Environmental Sustainability ReportOur report reflects the efforts of the multiyear environmental 
sustainability plan that we have been implementing to reduce our 
environmental impact  . In line with our values as a business grounded 
in research, our environmental sustainability plan is science based 
and data driven  . We have found that advances we make to benefit 
the environment provide a shared value in helping us to be a more 
efficient and cost-effective company  . Our plan is based on achieving 
four objectives: measure and reduce our environmental impact, build 
a culture of environmental awareness, sustain our business, and 
communicate our results  . 
Measure and reduce our environmental impact
We established 2012 targets against a 2007 baseline to help focus 
our conservation efforts and reduce our environmental impact  . We 
have been implementing projects to help us achieve our targets for 
energy and carbon dioxide, water, waste, and our U  .S . sales fleet 
vehicle fuel efficiency  . We have already met our water, energy, and 
waste (recycling) targets, and are on track to meet our remaining 
conservation targets  . To assist in tracking our progress toward these 
targets, and to improve our collection and analysis of environmental 
performance data, we launched a new, online data management 
system in 2010 (see sidebar) .
Build a culture of environmental awareness
Amgen staff members are creating a culture of environmental awareness 
as they engage in recycling initiatives, energy conservation efforts, 
volunteering for local cleanups, environmental education, and other 
activities that support Amgen goals for environmental sustainability  . 
The efforts and enthusiasm of staff members contribute to our maturing 
enterprise-wide approach to environmental sustainability  .Sustain our business
Our Design for Environment program includes initiatives we are 
developing in order to use environmental sustainability practices from 
the outset in multiple areas of our business  . These initiatives include 
the Green Products and Processes program, which is beginning to 
incorporate environmentally friendly practices in product development 
from research stages through delivery of medicines, and the Sustainable 
Design and Construction program, which sets standards for making our 
facilities greener and more efficient, in line with our business goals . 
Communicate our results
We have engaged with internal stakeholders to help shape our 
environmental sustainability plan . We have gathered feedback externally 
from healthcare professionals, patient opinion leaders, policy leaders 
and financial leaders we’ve identified as being key opinion drivers 
for stakeholder expectations of Amgen as part of the qualitative and 
quantitative research we periodically undertake  . Our plan addresses 
stakeholders’ views that we should operate in an environmentally 
sustainable manner and reduce our use of natural resources  . As 
we progress, we intend to take a broader, more deliberate approach 
to identifying and consulting with additional internal and external 
stakeholders to help improve our plan and how we report our results .
An Environmental Sustainability Council, with representation from 
leaders across the company, guides our plan, in alignment with 
our business, and reports our progress up through our executive 
leadership to the Corporate Responsibility and Compliance Committee, 
a sub-committee of our Board of Directors  . The Board of Directors 
consists of 12 members, including Chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer Kevin Sharer  . For more information on Amgen’s corporate 
governance and Board of Directors, visit the Corporate Governance 
section at www  .amgen  .com .Amgen’s plan for 
  environmental sustainability 
The power of data integration
In 2010, Amgen accomplished one of the major goals 
of our environmental sustainability plan—establishing 
a new online data management system to improve 
the consistency and ease of data collection related 
to our environmental performance  . This system is 
part of the essential infrastructure we needed to 
install in order to report on our progress  . This new 
data system provides greater functionality than our 
previous system, which utilized multiple spreadsheets, 
and allows us to better assess and analyze our 
environmental impact  . Supporting documents for data 
collection, such as utility bills, are also collected 
in the system, which provides confirmation for the 
reported data  . Our enhanced ability to analyze data 
is helping us to better target conservation areas 
and plan future projects  .
7 Amgen 2010 Environmental Sustainability ReportAt the core of managing our impact on the environment is the 
gathering of reliable, meaningful data on our performance  . In 
accomplishing this work, we face the challenges of understanding 
and measuring the effects of our conservation progress within the 
context of our ever-changing business  . 
Tying our progress to specific actions
We made the choice to tie reporting of our conservation progress to 
specific projects and initiatives that conserve resources and reduce 
environmental impact  . The results of these projects and initiatives 
count toward achieving our targets  . This approach helps distinguish 
between the results of the efforts we make to reduce our impact 
on the environment and the results that occur from changes in our 
business, such as changes in our production rates  . 
Measuring our environmental impact
In addition to reporting on our progress toward meeting our 
conservation targets, we also measure and report on our overall 
energy and carbon dioxide, water, waste, and U  .S . sales fleet fuel 
efficiency performance data  . For reporting on both target progress 
and overall environmental performance, we include data from our 
13 major manufacturing, research and development, and distribution 
facilities in North America, Europe, and Puerto Rico  . 
On the following pages, we illustrate areas where we have avoided 
using resources or creating emissions as a result of our conservation 
efforts in the context of our absolute performance data  . In some cases, 
our projects and initiatives offset our business growth so that we 
reduced impact overall, even as our business expanded  .Our focus on compliance 
No picture of our impact on the environment would be complete 
without addressing our compliance record . At Amgen, we are committed 
to operating in compliance with regulatory requirements at all times  . 
We routinely perform internal audits at our facilities, including our 
manufacturing, research and development, and distribution facilities  . 
We share the reports and action plans from audits across our global 
network to make sure appropriate corrective actions are implemented 
at all applicable locations, not just where the audit was performed  . 
In addition, we have established an environment, health, and 
safety (EHS) management system, which provides a framework for 
documenting and continually improving our EHS programs through 
routine assessments  .
When deviations from regulatory requirements occur, Amgen is 
committed to taking timely and appropriate corrective actions  . In 
2010, Amgen received three environmental notices of violation as 
a result of 89 regulatory inspections  . These notices were primarily 
in the area of wastewater management  . None of these resulted in 
monetary fines, and all have since been corrected  .Our impact on 
  the environment 
8 Amgen 2010 Environmental Sustainability ReportOur conservation targets 
Setting and achieving conservation targets 
are key components of our commitment to 
environmental sustainability  . In 2008 we 
identified energy and carbon dioxide, water, 
waste, and the fuel efficiency of our U  .S . 
sales fleet as target areas where reductions 
and conservation efforts could make the 
greatest impact  . 
To measure our progress, we track the results 
of projects and initiatives against a 2007 
baseline  . In order to be transparent about 
our environmental sustainability efforts, we 
count only projects and initiatives where we 
have confirmed our results through a formal 
measurement process  . Results that arise 
from changes in our business outside these 
projects and initiatives are not counted toward 
our targets  .
In the areas in which we have already 
achieved our targets, we continue our 
efforts  . We focus on identifying projects 
and initiatives with a shared value of 
decreasing our environmental impact and 
increasing the efficiency of our business  .Waste
Fuel efficiencyImprove U  .S . fleet vehicle 
fuel efficiency by 4 miles 
per gallon (MPG)* to 
23 MPG by 2012
*23 percent of 2007 baselineRecyclingRecycle greater than or 
equal to 40 percent of 
routine non-hazardous 
waste* by 2012
*2007 rate was 38 percent
Reduce 700 metric tons 
of routinely generated 
waste* by 2012
*7 percent of 2007 baselineEnergyConserve 500,000 
gigajoules (GJ) of 
energy* by 2012
*12 percent of 2007 baseline
WaterConserve 235,000 
cubic meters (m3) 
of water* by 2012
*7 percent of 2007 baselineCarbon dioxideReduce 75,000 
metric tons (MT) 
of CO2* by 2012
*18 percent of 2007 baselineResults of conservation projects through 2010 2012 Target
Reduction to date: 520,000 GJTarget = 500,000 GJ
Target met
Target = 75,000 MT
Reduction to date: 46,000 MT62 percent 
of target met†
Target = 700 MT
Reduction to date: 435 MT62 percent 
of target met
Target = 4 MPG
Improvement to date: 3 MPG75 percent 
of target metTarget = 235,000 m3
Reduction to date: 616,000 m3Target met
Target ≥ 40 percent
Recycling rate to date: 58.5 percent Target met
†Small discrepancies in data are due to rounding  .9 Amgen 2010 Environmental Sustainability Report
Facing the future challenges brought about by both climate change 
and the finite reserves of fossil fuels will require a global effort involving 
many industries .  For its part, Amgen has set energy and carbon dioxide 
(CO2) targets and has identified opportunities for reduced environmental 
impact and increased efficiency in operations  . We have implemented 
many conservation projects across the company, from large-scale 
capital projects, to small-scale projects at individual facilities  . An 
important contribution to our progress is our ability to actively share 
knowledge gained from these projects across our company  .
Energy and CO2 projects and resulting benefits 2008–2010
Conservation 
projectsEnergy 
savings* 
(1,000 GJ)CO2 
savings* 
(1,000 MT)Cost 
savings* 
($1,000)
Central utilities 
efficiencies72 7 1,190
Building HVAC† 
efficiencies232 24 3,941
Lighting changes 7 1 218
Process, building, 
and equipment 
efficiencies209 14 3,713
Total 520 46 9,062
*Savings realized in 2010 are from projects implemented 2008 through 2010  .
†Heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning  .To reduce our energy use and CO2 emissions, Amgen takes a 
systematic, science-based approach—asking questions, testing 
hypotheses, and sharing knowledge  . The Amgen Sustainability and 
Utilities Network (SUN), along with our Global Utilities Network (GUN), 
manages energy and CO2 reduction projects and evaluates their 
feasibility by executing pilot efforts to prove the concept  . When 
successful, projects are implemented globally, and the company 
benefits from the shared sustainability expertise .  In 2010 alone, the 
SUN supported $4  .1 million worth of projects that were executed 
by our facilities  . These 2010 projects are estimated to result in 
energy savings of 84,000 gigajoules and a CO2 reduction of 7,000 
metric tons (MT)  . Results over the past three years are shown in 
the chart to the left  .Energy and carbon dioxide: 
  understanding our carbon footprint 
10 Amgen 2010 Environmental Sustainability Report
Our energy performance
Energy is important to the manufacture of our vital medicines  . 
Optimizing its use reduces our overall impact on the environment 
and increases the efficiency of our business  .
Reducing our energy use also impacts our carbon dioxide (CO2) 
emissions, as these emissions are directly related to the amount 
and type of energy we use in our operations  .
To identify opportunities for reducing energy, we have focused on 
better understanding how we use energy  . We have classified our 
direct energy usage and resulting Scope 1* CO2 emissions, and 
our indirect energy usage and resulting Scope 2* CO2 emissions, 
in alignment with the World Resources Institute’s Greenhouse 
Gas (GHG) Protocol  .
The sources of direct energy are the diesel, natural gas, and propane 
we use in boilers and generators at our facilities  . Our indirect energy, 
which we purchase in the form of electricity and steam, is generated 
from a variety of energy types, as illustrated in the pie chart, to the 
right . The pie chart also shows that the amounts of energy we use 
for direct and indirect energy are about equal  .
Our overall trend in energy use over the past four years is downward, 
as shown in the data chart at right  . We achieved this result despite 
increased operations in 2009 and 2010  . Our energy conservation 
projects and resulting efficiencies have mitigated the effect of increased 
energy use due to our growth in operations and have allowed us to meet 
our 2012 energy reduction target ahead of schedule .Energy and carbon dioxide: 
  understanding our carbon footprint (continued)
Conservation success is shared 
across the company
A change in ventilation practices that yielded 
substantial energy savings at our facility in 
Washington is just one example of how the Amgen 
Sustainability and Utilities Network process has 
helped us achieve progress in energy reduction  . 
Based on traditional engineering practices, the 
ventilation systems in the laboratories of our Seattle 
facility operated in occupied mode at all hours of 
the day  . Since laboratory space has specialized 
ventilation requirements, this was a costly practice  . 
Engineering staff suspected there was a more 
efficient way to ventilate these spaces and installed 
new instrumentation that could safely regulate 
ventilation when spaces were either occupied or 
unoccupied  . Since 2009, each year the facility 
conserves approximately 53,000 gigajoules (GJ) 
of energy, reduces 3,400 metric tons of CO2, and 
saves $450,000  . Through the efforts of our utility 
networks, Amgen has applied this approach at 
three other facilities, realizing similar reduction rates  . 
Above: Donald, a senior engineer, helped implement 
the energy-saving ventilation project at Amgen’s Seattle, 
Washington facility.2007–2010 Energy use and energy use avoided† 
through conservation efforts (1,000 GJ)
2,0004,000
1,000
03,0005,000
Energy use Energy use avoided† through conservation efforts2007 2008 2009 2010229
4,019 4,341 4,006520
3,9162010 Energy use—Direct and Indirect—by source (1,000 GJ)
Direct sources
 Natural gas
 Diesel
 Propane
Indirect sources
 Fossil fuel
 Hydro
 Nuclear
  Nonspecified 
renewables
 Nonspecified1,522252
372200
111492
1,454
436
*Definition can be found in Notes for summary of data on page 25  .†Value represents year-over-year, cumulative avoidance  .11 Amgen 2010 Environmental Sustainability ReportOur carbon dioxide performance
Understanding our carbon dioxide ( CO2) emissions is critical to 
reducing our impact on the environment  . We know that changes in 
our energy use impact our CO2 emissions  . To better understand our 
Scopes 1 and 2* CO2 emissions, we completed a carbon inventory in 
2010  . Using the World Resources Institute’s Greenhouse Gas (GHG) 
Protocol, we confirmed that CO2 is our primary GHG of concern, 
constituting approximately 98 percent† of our emissions  . Through 
this inventory, we also analyzed the sources of our CO2 to better 
understand the relationship of our energy use to our CO2 emissions  . 
As shown in the chart below, close to three-quarters of our CO2 
emissions are the result of our purchased indirect energy being 
mainly sourced from fossil fuels  . Energy sources of purchased 
electricity vary by region  .Energy and carbon dioxide: 
  understanding our carbon footprint (continued)
2007–2010 CO2 emissions and CO2 emissions avoided‡ 
through conservation efforts (1,000 MT)
2010 CO2 emissions—Scope 1 and Scope 2—by source (1,000 MT)
200400
100
0300500
Total CO2 emissionsScope 1 sources
 Natural gas
 Diesel
 Propane
Scope 2 sources
 Electricity
 SteamCO2 emissions avoided‡ through conservation efforts16
389 41339
41046
406Preparing for potential climate change
Even though we are doing our part to help mitigate 
climate change, we realize we must plan for its 
potential risks  . Through participation in the Carbon 
Disclosure Project , we have identified potential risks 
to our business in the form of extreme weather 
events, water scarcity, and increasing regulation  . 
Implementing plans to mitigate those risks gives 
us an opportunity to become a stronger, more 
sustainable business  . We monitor carbon 
regulations and proactively prepare for them  . 
Our water conservation efforts are helping us find 
new ways to reduce our water use  . If a significant 
natural disaster, such as a hurricane, were to occur 
at a manufacturing facility, it could potentially affect 
the supply of medicines to our patients  . To prepare 
for such a risk, we’ve put mitigation measures in 
place through business continuity planning  .
*Definition can be found in Notes for summary of data on page 25  .
†Remaining percentage contains: methane, nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, and de minimis 
amounts of perfluorocarbons and sulfur hexafluoride  . GHG data presented in this report consist 
of carbon dioxide only  .
‡Value represents year-over-year, cumulative avoidance  .2007 2008 2009 2010We know that cleaner fuel sources result in fewer CO2 emissions  . 
As our business grows, where  we grow also impacts our CO2 
emissions . For example, in 2009 we expanded operations at a facility 
where the majority of electricity is generated from fossil fuels . As a 
result, we saw a slight increase in our CO2 emissions . In 2010, our 
CO2 emissions remained flat as a result of our energy reduction in 
spite of increased operations . We look for opportunities throughout  
the company to reduce CO2, in combination with energy reduction, 
to counterbalance any increases due to growth in our business  .
The Scope 3* CO2 emissions we collect from commercial business 
travel by our staff, which are not included here, can be found in the 
Summary of data table at the end of this report  . In the future, we plan 
to expand our inventory to include additional Scope 3 CO2 emissions, 
such as those from our outsourced activities  .2785 288
1512 Amgen 2010 Environmental Sustainability ReportWater is a precious resource that is vital to our biotechnology 
enterprise  . Amgen uses thousands of cubic meters of water annually 
to investigate potential new medicines and to manufacture our 
marketed products  . In our laboratories, scientists rely on water’s 
unique chemical properties as a solvent, a reagent, or even a 
catalyst to perform experiments leading to discovery of molecules as 
medicines  . Manufacturing staff count on specialized purified water, 
called water for injection (WFI), to both manufacture and prepare 
our biologic medicines for patient use  . We use water to cool utility 
equipment, clean our process equipment, and support our staff 
members through their workdays  . 
Our water performance
Water is critical not only to our business, but also to the communities 
in which we operate  . Therefore, we continuously challenge ourselves 
to find new ways to conserve it  . At selected facilities, we have built 
and developed water recycling facilities and features, installed 
waterless urinals, planted low-impact landscaping, and optimized 
water purification processes  . Through our Sustainability and Utilities 
Network, we pilot water conservation projects and incorporate them 
at all facilities where the projects make the greatest difference  . 
In 2010, we conducted a water inventory to better understand water 
use at our facilities . As part of this inventory, we found that the majority 
of the water we use, approximately 2,564 thousand cubic meters 
(TCM), comes from municipal sources, while a much smaller portion, 
14 TCM, comes from groundwater . The inventory allows us to identify 
the best opportunities to conserve water and reduce our impact on 
local water sources . Beginning in 2008, our water use, or intake, has shown an overall 
downward trend (see water intake chart below)  . This decrease is 
almost entirely the result of water conservation projects such as smart 
irrigation controls and reuse of process water in boilers and cooling 
towers . These projects, along with the success of our efforts in 
Puerto Rico (see sidebar), are the main reasons that we have 
already exceeded our 2012 water conservation target  . 
Even though we have exceeded our target earlier than expected, 
we continue to identify and implement ways to further conserve 
water and increase our awareness of the long-term availability and 
local concerns surrounding the water we use  .Water: 
 conserving a vital resource
Sending water back to work 
instead of down the drain
At our manufacturing facility in Puerto Rico, we use 
hundreds of cubic meters of water annually to cool 
utility plant equipment  . Thanks to the state-of-the-
art water treatment plant Amgen built at this location, 
the facility now reuses almost 75 percent of the 
wastewater it generates, sending this water back  
to work to cool equipment, instead of down the 
drain  . This wastewater treatment plant was built 
to comply with water discharge permit limits and 
to accommodate fluctuations in manufacturing, 
but also provides a secondary benefit of water 
conservation  . The Puerto Rico Aqueduct and Sewer 
Authority has recognized Amgen for our water 
recycling achievements, which contribute to the 
island’s overall goals for water conservation  . 
Above (left to right): Neftali, a senior associate; Ana, 
a senior maintenance manager; and Edgar, a senior 
maintenance technician, display pretreated and treated 
water samples in the water treatment plant at Amgen’s 
facility in Puerto Rico. The treated water is reused 
on-site to cool equipment.2007–2010 Water intake and intake avoided* through 
conservation efforts (1,000 m3)
2,0003,000
1,000
500
01,5002,5003,500
Water intake Water intake avoided* through conservation efforts2007 2008 2009 2010571
2,536567
2,738 3,286616
2,577
*Value represents year-over-year, cumulative avoidance  .13 Amgen 2010 Environmental Sustainability ReportWaste:  
 moving from recycling to reduction 
Our strong culture of recycling 
and waste reduction
Our staff members have stepped up to the challenge 
of a “less-waste” mind-set  . We are building a culture 
where people think twice before printing a page, 
using disposable utensils, or tossing recyclables in 
the trash  . Amgen facilities in the United Kingdom 
were early adopters of a practice to forgo desk-side 
trash bins and increase use of central recycling 
and composting stations, a practice that helped 
our facility in Cambridge achieve a diversion rate 
of nearly 90 percent in 2010  . Some of our facilities 
in Colorado, California, and Puerto Rico also 
implemented this method and other practices, and 
are achieving individual recycling rates of 65 percent 
or better  . Staff-based environmental sustainability 
teams have made a difference, encouraging staff 
to adopt reusable coffee mugs and dishes, cut back 
on paper use, and compost their coffee grounds, 
among other green practices  . Company-wide, in 
2010, we recycled 58  .5 percent of our waste that 
would otherwise have gone to a landfill  .As a company that includes scientific research and development, 
manufacturing operations, and administrative functions, Amgen 
generates a variety of waste that we handle with great consideration 
for the environment  . Beyond our careful attention to disposal and 
minimization of hazardous waste, we take action to recycle and 
reduce our non-hazardous waste  . We have installed user-friendly 
recycling stations at our facilities and implemented composting 
programs where supported by local municipalities  . 
Knowing that the ultimate intent of our waste target is to avoid 
generating waste in the first place, we are shifting our efforts to 
waste reduction to move our program further up the waste hierarchy 
(see graphic and chart on page 14)  . Waste reduction has the greatest 
potential to decrease our environmental footprint  . 
Our waste reduction and recycling performance
The more we know about the types of waste we generate, the more 
we can target specific waste for recycling and reduction  . Through 
refined data analysis, we have classified over 40 categories of waste  . 
The largest category of our non-hazardous waste is administrative 
waste, which includes items we routinely generate such as paper, 
general trash, and packaging material  . As shown in the chart at right, 
to a lesser extent, we generate hazardous waste, which consists 
mainly of chemical wastes, and is managed according to local, state 
and federal regulations  . We also generate waste from construction 
activities on a nonroutine basis  .* Generation of administrative waste is variable and depends on the 
number of Amgen staff members and the extent of our current 
operations  . In 2010 our operations increased, resulting in greater 
waste generation, as seen in the chart below  . Even though operations 
have increased, we’ve achieved administrative waste reductions 
through both targeted initiatives and operational improvements  . 
For example, we reduced the cardboard waste at our Louisville 
Distribution Center in 2008 by nearly 80 metric tons (MT) through 
improvements in product distribution  . We continue investigating our 
administrative waste to learn more about sources of waste generation 
and to identify greater reduction opportunities for the company  .
*Our nonroutine waste data, which is mainly construction waste that is sent to landfills, is not 
included in this section, but may be found in the Summary of data table on page 23  .†Routine waste is generated in the normal course of doing business  .2007–2010 Routine† waste generated (MT)
8,000
4,000
2,000
06,00010,00012,000
Hazardous Non-hazardous20097,706
1,004
20087,770
1,065
20107,933
1,180
20078,803
1,34314 Amgen 2010 Environmental Sustainability ReportWaste: 
 moving from recycling to reduction (continued)
Biopharmaceutical paper trail 
takes an electronic path
Bringing biotechnology medicines from the research 
laboratory to patients takes many years—15 on 
average—and a countless number of scientists and 
staff members  . In the past, careful documentation 
of every step—from the laboratory bench, to clinical 
testing, to quality control in manufacturing—meant 
that drug development traditionally required millions  
of pieces of paper  . 
Thanks in large part to dramatic improvements in 
information management technology implemented 
at Amgen in recent years, we’ve been able to replace 
a number of paper documents associated with 
developing medicines—such as laboratory notebooks, 
clinical study documentation, maintenance records, 
and filings with drug approval agencies—with 
paperless, electronic tools and processes  . Changes 
like these helped Amgen reduce its paper use 
by nearly half—53 million sheets—from 2007 
through 2010  .Since 2007, Amgen has recycled more than 16,000 metric tons (MT) 
of waste, which represents approximately 3,200 garbage trucks full 
of recyclables  . Amgen now recycles paper, plastic, metal, cardboard, 
glass, and wood at our facilities and is composting food and landscaping 
waste at more than 70 percent of facilities  . Many of our facilities are also donating used equipment and materials, 
which contributes to our recycling efforts  . With staff participation, our 
recycling rate improved by 53 percent from 2007 through 2010  .
We use the waste hierarchy pyramid, which illustrates sustainable management of waste, as a model for maturing our waste management 
program  . As shown in the chart above, right, which includes routine hazardous and non-hazardous waste, since 2007 the percentage of 
waste we send for disposal has steadily decreased, while the percentage of waste that we recycle has progressively increased  . While our 
efforts to reduce our waste have also improved since our baseline year, we are working to move our company solidly into the upper level of 
the waste hierarchy—waste reduction—by improving processes and changing our work culture to use fewer materials overall  .Routine waste by waste hierarchy category (MT) The waste hierarchy as a model for our waste-reduction goals
80%
20%60%
0%50%70%
10%90%
30%100%
40%
2007 2008 2009 2010
Disposal Energy recovery 
from incinerationRecycling, composting, 
reuseReduction*More sustainable
Less sustainableReduction
Recycling, composting, reuse
Energy recovery 
from incineration
Disposal8964,039
4,533 4,758
769
6347723,546250 360 435
5,704
4,0273,5423,582
*Value represents year-over-year, cumulative reductions  .15 Amgen 2010 Environmental Sustainability ReportThe average fuel efficiency of our U .S . sales fleet vehicles was 22 MPG 
in 2010, representing a savings of 347 thousand gallons of fuel  . With 
year-by-year improvements, we are in a good position to meet our 
2012 target to increase the average fuel efficiency of vehicles in our 
U .S . sales fleet by 4 MPG to 23 MPG  .*
Adding more fuel-efficient vehicles to our fleet conserves fuel, reduces 
carbon dioxide emissions, and decreases Amgen’s fuel costs, which 
is especially important as we grow our sales force to accommodate 
new medicines  . 
We set a target to improve the average fuel-efficiency rating of the 
more than 1,800 vehicles in our U  .S . sales fleet  . We identified our 
U .S . fleet as the focus for this target because this fleet, which 
represents more than half of our total sales fleet, has substantially 
lower average fuel efficiency compared with our sales fleets outside 
the United States  .
Our performance in U.S. sales fleet fuel efficiency 
Over time, we’ve given our mobile staff more choices of fuel-efficient 
vehicles in the United States  . For example, in 2007, 3 percent of cars 
in our U  .S . vehicle fleet were hybrid models, and 70 percent were 
Sport Utility Vehicles (SUVs) . We increased the number of fuel-efficient 
vehicle choices in our fleet in 2008  . By 2010, more fuel-efficient 
models achieving 23 miles per gallon (MPG)* or higher, like hybrids 
and partial zero emissions vehicles (PZEVs), represented approximately 
34 percent of the total fleet, while the less fuel-efficient varieties of 
SUVs made up approximately 3 percent of our fleet  .
In addition to rotating less fuel-efficient vehicles out of the fleet to 
reduce our impact on the environment, Amgen encourages fleet 
drivers to adopt fuel-efficient driving habits, such as avoiding idling  .
In 2009 we began to see the results of the improvements we set in 
place—through both an increase in fuel efficiency and the resulting 
avoidance of fuel use  . Despite an increase of 500 vehicles in 2010, 
to support our expanding business, we continue to make progress 
in this area  .U.S. sales fleet: 
 driving a more fuel-efficient fleet
Amgen staff member helps 
accelerate fuel efficiency
Our mobile staff, which includes sales and regional 
medical liaison staff members in the United States, 
drove a fleet of just over 1,800 vehicles more than 
41 million miles in 2010  . Ariane, a senior regional 
medical liaison based in Santa Monica, California, 
values the fact that she can drive a hybrid car to 
log miles in an environmentally responsible way  . 
“I do most of my driving on busy Southern California 
streets, which is how the majority of cars burn 
excess fuel—idling in bumper-to-bumper traffic,” 
says Ariane, who travels within a 50-mile radius 
educating clinicians about Amgen medicines  . “I 
love my hybrid because it is the most fuel efficient 
when it idles and the electric power kicks in  .” 
Ariane continues, “I think it’s quite progressive for 
Amgen to provide hybrid vehicles for our use  .”
Above: Senior Regional Medical Liaison Ariane has 
driven a hybrid fleet vehicle since 2006.2007–2010 U.S. sales fleet fuel efficiency (MPG)
2007 19
2008 19
2009 21
2010 22
2007–2010 U.S. fleet fuel use and fuel use avoided 
through conservation (1,000 Gal)
2,000
1,000
500
01,5002,500
Fuel used Fuel use avoided through conservation efforts
*Measurement equivalents: 23  .0 MPG-U  .S . = 27  .6 MPG-Imperial = 10  .2 L/100KM = 9  .78 KM/L 20071,498
20081,443
20091,297
20101,849173 1534716 Amgen 2010 Environmental Sustainability ReportOur plan aims to build environmental sustainability considerations 
into our processes and facilities from the beginning—to conserve 
resources, increase efficiency, and lower costs  . As we integrate this 
principle in a more comprehensive and systematic way through our 
Design for Environment program, we are confident that it will help 
to make us a better, stronger company in the years to come  .
Green products and processes
In 2010, we established a Green Products and Processes program with 
the goal of integrating environmental sustainability into the development 
life cycles of our products, from research through delivery to patients  . 
This program contains three pillars: Green Chemistry, Green Biology, 
and Green Packaging  . Research staff members have developed Green 
Chemistry teams to incorporate guidelines and approaches that reduce 
the environmental footprint of our processes during the development 
cycle of our small-molecule medicines (see sidebar) . We have created a 
team to drive similar considerations for our large-molecule medicines 
development processes through a Green Biology program . Additionally, 
through our Green Packaging program, we are starting to look at how our 
products are packaged, and we are considering more environmentally 
sustainable approaches . In 2010, we established a process to integrate 
green considerations into new package designs, evaluated our existing 
product packaging designs, and prioritized areas where we can make 
our packaging more environmentally sustainable .Designing sustainable facilities 
Another element of the Design for Environment aspect of our 
environmental sustainability plan is our Sustainable Design and 
Construction program  . This program provides guidelines for major 
remodeling projects as well as new facility construction  . We apply 
this practice, which incorporates industry-standard green principles 
such as Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) 
guidelines  to new projects in design and execution stages  . Through 
the practice, we consider how to remodel and build construction 
projects with the optimal conservation performance over the entire 
life span of the structure  . This practice lessens the impact of our 
buildings on the environment, saves money, and can also create 
a pleasant work atmosphere for staff members  .Sustaining our business 
Green chemistry: safer chemistry, 
reduced energy, higher efficiency
Just like an architect can design a building to have 
cleaner air quality and use fewer resources, scientists 
can create chemical processes that are better for the 
environment and conserve resources when they’re 
developing small-molecule medicines  . This more 
environmentally friendly approach to chemical 
process development is called green chemistry  . 
In 2010, Amgen began a Green Chemistry program 
in selected research areas  . With this heightened 
environmental awareness, Amgen scientists have 
been finding ways to use safer chemicals, less 
energy, and more efficient practices  . Although our 
work in this area is just beginning, Amgen scientists 
have already made significant progress  . Through 
efforts to achieve both sustainability and scientific 
innovation, Amgen’s Green Chemistry program can 
reap rewards for the environment while supporting 
Amgen’s overall mission to serve patients  .
Above: John, a Green Chemistry team leader in Small 
Molecule Product and Process Development, is a 
published author of leading articles in green chemistry.
17 Amgen 2010 Environmental Sustainability Report
Caring for the environment 
     in our communities 
Through organized environmental volunteer activities and monetary 
support of environmental education programs, Amgen and the 
Amgen Foundation contribute to the well-being of our communities  .
The Amgen Foundation supports 
environmental sustainability education
The Amgen Foundation seeks to advance science education, improve 
quality of care and access for patients, and support resources that 
create sound communities where Amgen staff members live and 
work  . The Amgen Foundation invests in environmental education 
programs that improve science literacy among students and support 
environmental and community health  . The following are snapshots 
of environmental education programs the Foundation supported in 2010 .
National Marine Sanctuary Foundation 
Building Ventura County’s Marine and 
Environmental Scientists of Tomorrow
The National Marine Sanctuary Foundation supports the National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s MERITO Academy 
(Multicultural Education for Resource Issues Threatening Oceans) 
to educate Ventura County’s students and their teachers about 
earth and ocean sciences, key ocean threats, and the concept 
of ocean stewardship  . The MERITO Academy provides high-quality 
science programming, integrating earth and ocean sciences into 
fourth through seventh grade public education and extended 
learning programs, helping a new generation understand and 
actively contribute to ocean protection  .National Wildlife Federation
Eco-Schools USA: Creating Strong, Sustainable Schools
Eco-Schools USA is an internationally acclaimed program that helps 
educators integrate the principles of sustainability throughout their 
schools and curricula  . The United Nations has endorsed Eco-Schools 
as a comprehensive model for sustainable development  . The Eco-Schools 
program strives to model environmentally sound practices, provide 
support for “greening” of curricula, and enhance science and 
academic achievement  . Additionally, it works to foster a greater 
sense of environmental stewardship among youth  . Amgen Foundation 
funding supports the development and delivery of professional 
development workshops for educators and volunteers for pilot 
schools in Seattle, Washington, and in Ventura County, California  .
“e” inc. 
Planet Protectors
Planet Protectors is a science and social leadership program that 
serves up to 700 low-income children in 10 inner-city after-school 
programs in the Boston metropolitan area . Teams of up to 20 students 
meet weekly and participate in active learning—from animal 
observation, experiments, artwork, demonstrations, journal writing, 
and field collections, to data analysis, animal simulations, storytelling, 
and writing  . Sessions include leadership training and service activities 
that help students build self-confidence and learn to apply their new 
knowledge where they live . “e” inc . also engages and trains after-school 
program staff  .Above and below: Teachers and students visit 
the beach to explore marine science through the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s 
MERITO Academy.
18 Amgen 2010 Environmental Sustainability ReportAmgen staff rid natural areas of trash 
through coastal cleanups 
Water is vital to Amgen’s business and an essential component of 
our medicines  . A number of Amgen facilities are also located near 
important and scenic coastal areas and waterways  . Through International 
Coastal Cleanup Day events, our staff members not only remove debris 
from natural areas—0  .5 metric tons in 2010—but also document 
their findings as part of a worldwide research project: the Ocean 
Conservancy’s annual marine debris report  . The International Coastal 
Cleanup is just one example of an environmental cleanup activity our 
staff members engage in each year  .Educating staff members 
on Earth Day
Thousands of staff members from 
Amgen facilities around the world 
attend annual Earth Day events  . Staff 
organizers bring in local experts on the 
environment and share conservation 
practices that staff can implement at 
work and at home to reduce their 
individual environmental footprint  . 
Events include games that teach proper 
waste recycling and composting techniques, e-waste collection 
centers, and electric car demonstrations, among many other activities  . 
Staff members also organize cleanup events in their communities in 
celebration of Earth Day  .Caring for the environment 
    in our communities (continued)
Top left: Staff members Vicki (left) and Michaelann 
participate at an International Coastal Cleanup Day 
activity at the Brunette River in Burnaby, British 
Columbia. Bottom left: Jeremy, a staff member, 
cleans debris from the beach at Marina Park in 
Ventura, California. 
Right: As part of Earth Day at our Thousand Oaks, 
California, headquarters, Jeff, a staff member, 
shares his enthusiasm for his electric car.
19 Amgen 2010 Environmental Sustainability ReportAt Amgen, our staff members are our most important resource  . 
We are committed to creating an environment that encourages 
and enables staff members to stay healthy and safe  .
Our culture of safety 
Amgen maintains a safety record that is among the very best in 
our industry, or any industry  . 
Our safety record is supported by a culture that encourages staff to 
do the right thing and to feel empowered to report and correct any 
safety incidents or unsafe conditions and behaviors they observe  . 
To enhance this culture, we have put in place a risk management 
program that focuses on the highest potential safety risks to staff 
in our manufacturing, research and development, and distribution 
facilities . We started by identifying and prioritizing tasks with significant, 
inherent risk—such as working at heights, with chemicals, or with 
pressurized systems—and then conducted comprehensive risk 
assessments  . Finally, we implemented control measures to minimize 
the risk  . We regularly conduct follow-up inspections to ensure that 
accurate procedures are in place, staff members are trained, and 
safety controls are used appropriately  . This program, combined with the culture of safety we have created, 
has resulted in decreased injuries to our staff  . Further contributing 
to our culture is increased awareness among our staff members 
to recognize and report unsafe conditions and behaviors  . Through 
proactively identifying and correcting unsafe conditions and 
behaviors, we create a safer environment at work, as evidenced 
in the charts below  .
Safety metrics 2007 2008 2009 2010
Injury and illness* rate†0 .82 0 .76 0 .55 0 .56
Lost day case rate‡0 .25 0 .28 0 .19 0 .17Our greatest resource 
It’s about people, not numbers
Staff members at Amgen are aware that a safety 
incident is not just a data point on a chart: It 
represents a fellow staff member being injured  . 
Our culture requires that staff members be vigilant 
about their own safety as well as the safety of 
others around them  . This is true whether preparing 
for activities such as working at heights or just 
walking down the hall  . Working together, we 
ensure that safety remains one of our fundamental, 
core practices  .
Above: Facilities staff members help each other 
assemble fall protection equipment as they prepare 
to work near the edge of a roof at Amgen’s 
Thousand Oaks, California, facility.2007–2010 Injuries and illnesses* decrease overall 
as reports of unsafe conditions and behaviors increase
4,000200
2,000100
1,00050
0 03,0001507,000
6,000
5,000Reported unsafe conditions Injuries and illnesses*
2007 2008 2009 2010
Reported and corrected unsafe 
conditions and behaviorsReported injuries 
and illnesses*
*Injuries and illnesses beyond first aid  .
†Rate based on number of injuries and illnesses per one hundred staff members  .
‡Rate based on number of injury and illness cases with days away from work per one hundred 
staff members  .20 Amgen 2010 Environmental Sustainability Report
Our greatest resource (continued)
Our commitment to wellness
As a company devoted to improving human health, we are committed 
to helping our staff members improve their own health  . In 2010, 
Amgen became tobacco free globally and provided tobacco-cessation 
resources for staff and their spouses or domestic partners  . Also in 
2010, Amgen rolled out a new online wellness program that provides 
tools and resources for staff to assess their health risks, select 
customized goals based on those risks, and take steps to eliminate or 
lower those risks  . The program is guided by physician and healthcare 
professional staff members who help ensure wellness programs are 
evidence based  .
In addition to providing a comprehensive online educational and 
assessment component, we have also aligned our various wellness 
partners—including the Vitality Health Enhancement program, 
Amgen’s Occupational Health Services, Plus One fitness services 
vendor, Amgen’s commercial organization for all Amgen products, 
staff affinity groups, and our healthcare vendors—to offer a coordinated 
array of preventive-care services and educational programs for staff . 
Each month, Amgen promotes awareness of various diseases in 
correlation with nationally recognized health observances . We tap into 
our own inside network of healthcare professionals or invite subject-
matter experts from the community to speak on featured diseases 
such as colorectal cancer, breast cancer, prostate cancer, and other 
grievous illnesses  .Amgen has long maintained a variety of facilities, programs, and 
services to encourage physical and mental wellness  . Amgen 
provides fitness centers or supports fitness center memberships 
for all staff whether working on-site or working remotely  . Thousands 
of staff members participate in company-sponsored events and 
friendly competitions such as Walk to Wellness (see sidebar) and a 
weight-loss challenge program  . We provide access to registered 
dietitians, personal counseling through a Personal Effectiveness 
program, and other services  .
Amgen also provides flexible work arrangements to help staff achieve 
work-life balance including flexible work schedules, telecommuting, 
remote work, part-time work, and job-sharing options  .
Stepping out for good health 
To support our participation in the Arthritis 
Foundation’s Arthritis Walk®, Amgen created the 
Walk to Wellness program in 2008 that encourages 
participants to complete at least 10,000 steps a 
day . Last year, more than 2,000 staff took part by 
counting their steps and submitting results as they 
walked alone and with colleagues at home and on 
Amgen’s scenic grounds  . Amgen also suggests 
that staff take “walking meetings” when possible  .
Above: Staff members enjoy some sun and exercise 
at headquarters in Thousand Oaks, California. Thank you for reading our 2010 environmental sustainability report. 
We’re proud of the progress we’ve shared in this report, and we 
welcome your thoughts through email at esfeedback@amgen  .com21 Amgen 2010 Environmental Sustainability ReportGlobal Reporting Initiative index–Level C
GRI number GRI disclosure Page Reference
Strategy and analysis 1 .1 Statement from CEO 3
Organizational profile
Note: 2  .9 is not applicable2 .1 Name of organization 1, 29 www  .amgen  .com (about Amgen)
2 .2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 5 www  .amgen  .com (product websites)
2 .3 Operational structure and major divisions 5
2 .4 Location of headquarters 5 www  .amgen  .com (fact sheet)
2 .5 Countries of operation 4, 5 www  .amgen  .com (locations)
2 .6 Nature of ownership 5
2 .7 Markets served 5
www  .amgen  .com (fact sheet)
2 .8 Scale of the reporting organization 5
2 .10 Awards 5 www  .amgen  .com (environmental sustainability)
Report parameters
Note: 3  .2, 3 .10, and 3  .11 are not applicable3 .1 Reporting period 4
3 .3 Reporting cycle 4
3 .4 Contact point 4
3 .5 Process for defining report content 6
3 .6 Boundary of the report 4
3 .7 Limitations on the scope and boundary of the report 4
3 .8 Basis for reporting 4
3 .9 Data measurement techniques and bases of calculations and assumptions 23
3 .12 GRI content index table 21
Governance, commitments, 
and engagement4 .1 Governance structure including committees 6
www  .amgen  .com (corporate governance)4 .2 Indicate whether the chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 6
4 .3 Percent of independent directors 6
4 .4Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations/director 
to highest governance board6
4 .14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 6
4 .15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 622 Amgen 2010 Environmental Sustainability ReportGlobal Reporting Initiative index–Level C (continued)
GRI number GRI disclosure Page Reference
Economic performance indicatorEC 1
(partially reported)Direct economic value generated and distributed 5, 17, 242010 Annual Report and Financial Summary
2010 Amgen Foundation Annual Report
EC 2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 11
Environmental performance 
indicatorsEN 3 Direct energy consumption 10, 23
www  .amgen  .com (environmental sustainability)
EN 4 Indirect energy consumption 10, 23
EN 5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 9, 10, 23
EN 7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved 9, 10, 23
EN 8 Total water withdrawal by source 12, 23
www  .amgen  .com (environmental sustainability)
EN 16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 11, 23
EN 18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 9, 10, 11, 23
EN 22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 13, 14, 23, 24
EN 28Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for 
non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations7, 24 www  .amgen  .com (environmental sustainability)
Social: labor practices 
and decent workLA 7 Health and safety rates 19, 24
LA 8Programs to assist employees, families, or community members regarding 
serious diseases20
Social: society SO 6Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and 
related institutions5, 24 www  .amgen  .com (corporate governance)23 Amgen 2010 Environmental Sustainability ReportCategory Type Unit 2007 2008 2009 2010
EnergyaCombustion on site (Direct)c1,000 GJ 2,151 1,914 1,941 1,905
Purchased energy (Indirect)d1,000 GJ 2,190 2,104 2,065 2,011 
Total energy 1,000 GJ 4,341 4,019 4,006 3,916 
Total energy normalized to net sales 1,000 GJ/$B net sales 303 274 279 267 
Confirmed results of energy reduction projectsb1,000 GJ - 229 436 520 
Carbon dioxidea
(CO 2)CO2 combustion on site (Scope 1)e1,000 MT 126 112 115 113
CO2 purchased energy (Scope 2)f1,000 MT 287 276 295 292
Total CO2 from energy 1,000 MT 413 389 410 406
Total CO2 normalized to net sales 1,000 MT/$B net sales 28 .9 26 .5 28 .6 27 .7
Total CO2 normalized to total energy MT/GJ 0 .0952 0 .0967 0 .1023 0 .1036
Confirmed results of CO2 reduction projectsb1,000 MT - 16 39 46
Other carbon dioxideg
(CO 2)CO2 U .S . sales fleet (Scope 1) 1,000 MT 13 13 11 16 
CO2 executive air fleet (Scope 1) 1,000 MT 4 .7 5 .0 5 .2 6 .8 
CO2 business travel—commercial (Scope 3)h, i1,000 MT - - 31 36 
WateraTotal water intakej1,000 m33,286 2,738 2,536 2,577
Total water intake normalized to net sales 1,000 m3/$B net sales 230 186 177 176 
Confirmed results of water reduction projectsb1,000 m3-  567 571 616
WasteaRecycling ratek% 38 49 57 58 .5
Total routine waste MT 10,146 8,835 8,710 9,112
   Hazardous waste MT 1,343 1,065 1,004 1,180 
      Recycled MT 255 268 226 210 
      Incinerated for energy recovery MT 464 318 293 347
      Incinerated not for energy recovery MT 431 387 406 519
      Landfilled MT 118 81 73 98
      TreatedlMT 76 11 6 6 Summary of data 24 Amgen 2010 Environmental Sustainability ReportCategory Type Unit 2007 2008 2009 2010
Wastea   Non-hazardous waste MT 8,803 7,770 7,706 7,933
      Composted MT 260 317 408 524
      Reused MT 32 88 88 58 
      Recycled MT 2,999 3,367 3,812 3,966 
      Incinerated for energy recovery MT 432 451 341 426 
      Incinerated not for energy recovery MT 194 190 128 131 
      Landfilled MT 4,885 3,358 2,930 2,827 
Total routine waste normalized to net sales MT/$B net sales 709 602 607 622 
Confirmed results of routine 
waste reduction projectsb MT -  250 360 435
Total nonroutine wastemMT 31,400 54,800 80,000 23,600 
FleetU .S . sales fleet fuel efficiencynMPG-U  .S . 19 19 21 22 
U .S . sales fleet fuel use avoided 1,000 Gal -  15 173 347
U .S . sales fleet fuel use 1,000 Gal 1,498 1,443 1,297 1,849
Business profileNet sales $B 14 .311 14 .687 14 .351 14 .660 
“Adjusted” net incomeo$B 4 .804 4 .885 5 .014 5 .024
“Adjusted” R&D expenseso$B 3 .064 2 .910 2 .739 2 .773
Corporate political contributions (U  .S .)p$Mil 0 .584 0 .777 0 .424 1 .144
Staff Number of staff 17,500 16,900 17,200 17,400
Health and safetyAbsenteeismqPercent days away 2 .4 2 .1 2 .1 2 .0
Injuries and illnesses raterNumber of injuries 
per 100 staff members0 .82 0 .76 0 .55 0 .56
Lost day case ratesInjuries with days away from 
work per 100 staff members0 .25 0 .28 0 .19 0 .17
Severity ratetNumber of days away from work 
per 100 staff members8 .20 10 .31 6 .84 5 .84
Fatalities Number of fatalities 0 0 0 0
ComplianceaEnvironmental notices of violations (NOV)uNumber of NOVs 8 0 2 3Summary of data (continued)25 Amgen 2010 Environmental Sustainability ReportNotes for summary of data
General
a Amgen has included data from 13 facilities for energy and carbon dioxide, water, and waste  . These facilities represent approximately 93 percent of Amgen’s worldwide 
facility space based on total square feet  . Included facilities are in Thousand Oaks, California U  .S .; Greenwich, Rhode Island U  .S .; Boulder and Longmont, Colorado U  .S .; 
Seattle and Bothell, Washington U  .S .; Juncos, Puerto Rico U  .S .; Louisville, Kentucky U  .S .; South San Francisco, California U  .S .; Fremont, California U  .S .; Cambridge, 
Massachusetts U  .S .; Burnaby, Canada; Breda, Netherlands; Uxbridge and Cambridge, United Kingdom  . This includes leased buildings where we have operational control 
over building infrastructure, including utilities  .
b Measurement and verification of conservation and reduction projects for energy and carbon dioxide, water, and waste are based on the adaptation of the International 
Performance Measurement and Verification Protocol (IPMVP), Concepts and Options for Determining Energy and Water Savings Volume 1, EVO 10000-1  .2007, April 2007  . 
Project measurements are conducted using reasonable means, including direct measurements and scientific estimations as appropriate  .
Energy
c Direct energy use results from operating equipment that is owned or controlled by Amgen at the facilities listed in note (a)  . Data on the use of natural gas, propane, and 
diesel in boilers, furnaces, and HVAC are recorded from utility bills  . Data on the use of diesel in emergency generators are recorded from purchase records or meter 
readings and, in some cases, estimated from run-hours  . Utility bills recorded in units of volume are converted to energy by using the Global Reporting Initiative Version 3  .0, 
EN3 table, to convert volumes of primary sources (natural gas, diesel), and the U  .S . Energy Information Administration/Annual Energy Review Table A1 (propane)  . Energy 
from emergency generators recorded as run-hours is estimated using the manufacturer’s specified fuel-feed rate for each generator  .
d Indirect energy use results from purchased energy in the form of electricity and steam at the Amgen facilities listed in note (a)  . Data on the use of electricity and steam is 
recorded from utility bills  . Utility bills for purchased steam that are recorded in units of mass (i  .e ., ‘lb steam’) are converted to energy by using the latent heat of evaporation 
from the saturated steam tables, then dividing by the efficiency of the supplier’s steam generator  .
Carbon dioxide
e Scope 1 CO2 emissions result from direct energy sources defined in note (c)  . CO2 emissions from our U  .S . sales fleet and executive air fleet are found in the Other Carbon 
Dioxide category in this data summary  . CO2 data from direct energy sources are calculated using emission factors from the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Cross-Sector 
Tools—Stationary Combustion—V  .1 .0 (Jul 2009)  . Scope 1 emissions that are not included in this data summary include fugitive emissions from chillers, coolers, and 
HVAC, as well as process-related emissions from cell respiration (CO2 as a by-product) and pH adjustments (CO2 injection)  . Analysis of these sources in 2009 showed 
that our fugitive emissions are less than 1 percent of the total carbon emissions when compared with other sources such as energy use and that cell respiration and 
emissions from pH adjustments are negligible (less than 0  .1 percent of our total CO2 emissions)  .
f Scope 2 CO2 emissions result from indirect energy sources defined in note (d)  . CO2 data from purchased electricity are calculated using emission factors from U  .S . EPA 
eGRID2007 Version 1  .1 (2005 data: eGRID subregion annual CO2 output emission rate) for all U  .S . locations (eGrid2007 HICC subregional factor is applied to Amgen 
Puerto Rico), from the Greenhouse Gas Division, Environment Canada (2006 data)—V  .1 .0 (April 2009) for Amgen’s Facility in Burnaby, Canada, and from specific utility 
provider’s annual reports for Amgen facilities in the United Kingdom (Uxbridge and Cambridge) and the Netherlands (Breda)  . CO2 data from purchased steam are 
calculated using the Emission Factor for Natural Gas as identified in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Cross-Sector Tools—Stationary Combustion—V  .1 .0 (Jul 2009)  . 26 Amgen 2010 Environmental Sustainability ReportOther carbon dioxide
g The category “Other Carbon Dioxide” contains Scope 1 and Scope 3 CO2 emissions that are tracked, but are not included in our current CO2 reduction target  . CO2 
emissions from our executive air fleet are calculated using emission factors from the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Cross-Sector Tools—Mobile-Fuel—V  .1 .0 (Jul 2009)  . 
CO2 emissions from our U  .S . sales fleet are calculated using emission factors from the GHG Protocol Emission Factors for Petrol passenger cars (volume) (GHG Protocol) 
= 2 .327 kg/L, which is further converted to 19  .4199 lb/gal (US)  . Fuel use and mileage data are collected at the pump for each vehicle  . CO2 emissions from our commercial 
business travel are calculated by Amgen’s travel provider using the Defra tool  .
h Scope 3 CO2 emissions are a consequence of the activities of the company, but occur from sources not owned or controlled by the company  . The Scope 3 CO2 emissions 
that are currently tracked include emissions from Amgen’s commercial business travel (air and rail  .) 
i Commercial business travel was not tracked in 2007 or 2008  .
Water
j Water intake in 2010 includes 2,564 thousand cubic meters from municipal sources and 14 thousand cubic meters from groundwater  .
Waste
k Recycling rate is the proportion of waste that is recycled and reused compared with the total volume of routine, non-hazardous waste generated with potential for 
landfill disposal  .
l Treatment means the physical, thermal, chemical, or biological processes that change the characteristics of the waste in order to reduce its volume or hazardous nature, 
facilitate its handling, or enhance recovery  .
m Nonroutine waste constitutes waste generated outside the normal operations of our facilities and consists mainly of construction and demolition waste  .
Fleet
n Measurement equivalents: 23  .0 MPG-U  .S . = 27  .6 MPG-Imperial = 10  .2 L/100KM = 9  .78 KM/L
Business profile
o “Adjusted” net income and “adjusted” R&D expenses are non-GAAP financial measures  . See page 27 for reconciliations to U  .S . Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP)  .
p Corporate political contributions represent Amgen Inc  .’s aggregate contributions among those states where these are permissible  . Corporate political contributions to 
certain candidates for state and local elected offices are permissible in accordance with applicable laws and Amgen policy  . Additional information may be found in the 
Corporate Governance section at www  .amgen  .com .
Health and safety
q Absentee rate is based on U  .S . staff members, including full-time, part-time, management, and nonmanagement  . Hours recorded for family medical leave are divided by 
hours staff members were expected to work to calculate the absenteeism rate (percent)  .
r Injury and illness rate is calculated based on the number of reported Amgen staff member injuries and illnesses beyond first aid  . The rate is based on the number of injuries 
and illnesses per 100 Amgen staff members  . Data as of March 31, 2011  .
s Lost day case rate is the number of injury and illness cases involving days away from work per 100 Amgen staff members  . Data as of March 31, 2011  .
t Severity rate is the actual number of days away from work due to injury or illness per 100 Amgen staff members  . Data as of March 31, 2011  .
Compliance
u Notices of Violation (NOV) reported that resulted from agency inspections  .Notes for summary of data (continued)27 Amgen 2010 Environmental Sustainability ReportAmgen Inc.
Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income to “Adjusted” Net Income (Unaudited) ($ in billions) 
Results for the years ended December 31,  2010  2009  2008  2007
GAAP net income  $4.627  $4 .605 $4 .052 $3 .078
Adjustments to GAAP net income:
Amortization of acquired intangible assets, product technology rights  0.294(a) 0 .294(a) 0 .294(a) 0 .295(a)
Incremental non-cash interest expense  0.266(b) 0 .250(b) 0 .235(b) 0 .219(b)
Stock option expense  0.124(c) 0 .115(c) 0 .103(c) 0 .181(c)
Asset impairment charge  0.118(d) — — —
Amortization of acquired intangible assets, research and development (R&D) technology rights  0.070(e) 0 .070(e) 0 .070(e) 0 .071(e)
Legal settlements  (0.001)(f) 0 .033(f) 0 .288(f) 0 .034(f)
Restructuring and related costs  — 0 .070(g) 0 .148(g) 0 .739(g)
Write-off of inventory  — — 0 .084(h) 0 .090(h)
Write-off of acquired in-process R&D  — — — 0 .590(i)
Other merger-related expenses  — — 0 .001(j) 0 .036(j)
Write-off of manufacturing asset  — — — 0 .030(k)
Other  — — — 0 .024
 0.871  0 .832 1 .223 2 .309
Tax effect of the above adjustments  (0.318)(l) (0 .293)(l) (0 .390)(l) (0 .491)(l)
Tax settlement  (0.151)(m) (0 .087)(m) — (0 .092)(m)
Tax benefit resulting from prior-period charges  (0.005)(n) (0 .018)(n) — —
California tax law change  — (0 .025)(o) — —
“Adjusted” net income  $5.024  $5 .014 $4 .885 $4 .804
 
 
Reconciliation of GAAP R&D Expense to “Adjusted” R&D (Unaudited) ($ in billions)   
Results for the years ended December 31,  2010  2009  2008  2007
GAAP R&D expense  $2.894  $2 .864 $3 .030 $3 .266
Adjustments to GAAP R&D expense:
Stock option expense  (0.051)(c) (0 .049)(c) (0 .046)(c) (0 .083)(c)
Amortization of acquired intangible assets, R&D technology rights  (0.070)(e) (0 .070)(e) (0 .070)(e) (0 .071)(e)
Restructuring and related costs  — (0 .006)(g) (0 .003)(g) (0 .019)(g)
Other merger-related expenses  — — (0 .001)(j) (0 .029)(j)
“Adjusted” R&D expense  $2.773  $2 .739 $2 .910 $3 .064
(a)  To exclude the ongoing, non-cash amortization of acquired product technology rights, primarily ENBREL, related 
to the Immunex Corporation acquisition in 2002  .
(b)  To exclude the incremental non-cash interest expense resulting from a change in the accounting for our 
convertible notes effective January 1, 2009  .
(c)  To exclude stock option expense  . 
(d)  To exclude an asset impairment charge associated with the transaction announced in January 2011 involving 
our manufacturing operation in Fremont, California  .
(e)  To exclude the ongoing, non-cash amortization of the R&D technology intangible assets acquired with 
alternative future uses with the 2006 acquisitions of Abgenix, Inc  . (Abgenix) and Avidia, Inc  . (Avidia)  .
(f)  To exclude loss accruals or awards for legal settlements  .
(g)  To exclude restructuring and related cost savings initiative charges  .
(h)  To exclude the write-off of inventory resulting from, in 2008, a strategic decision to change manufacturing 
processes and, in 2007, changing regulatory and reimbursement environments  .
(i)  To exclude the non-cash expense associated with writing off the acquired in-process R&D related to the 
acquisitions of Alantos Pharmaceutical Holding, Inc  . (Alantos) and Ilypsa, Inc  . (Ilypsa) in 2007  .
(j)  To exclude merger-related expenses incurred due to the acquisitions of Alantos, Ilypsa and Abgenix and,  
also for 2007 Tularik Inc  . These expenses related primarily to incremental costs associated with retention  
and integration  .(k)  To exclude the write-off of the cost of a semi-completed manufacturing asset that will not be used due to a 
change in manufacturing strategy  .
(l)  To exclude the tax effect of the above adjustments  . The tax provision (benefit) for the adjustments between our 
GAAP and “Adjusted” results takes into account the tax treatment and related tax rate(s) that apply to each 
adjustment in the applicable tax jurisdiction(s)  . Generally, this results in a tax impact at the U  .S . marginal tax 
rate for certain adjustments, including amortization of intangible assets and non-cash interest expense 
associated with our convertible notes, whereas the tax impact of other adjustments, including impairments, 
stock option expense and restructuring-related items, depends on whether the amounts are deductible in the 
tax jurisdictions where the asset is located or the expenses are incurred and the applicable tax rate(s) in those 
jurisdictions  .
(m)  To exclude the net tax benefit recognized as the result of resolving certain transfer pricing issues with tax 
authorities for prior periods  .
(n) To exclude the tax benefit related principally to certain prior-period charges excluded from “Adjusted” earnings  .
(o)  To exclude the net tax benefit resulting from adjustments to previously established deferred taxes, related 
primarily to prior acquisitions and stock option expense, due to changes in California tax law effective in 2011  .Notes:28 Amgen 2010 Environmental Sustainability Report
29 Amgen 2010 Environmental Sustainability Report“Environmental sustainability makes good business sense; 
it’s an important investment in our future.”
—Kevin Sharer, Chairman and CEO, Amgen  
 Robert Bradway, President and COO, Amgen
MAY 2011
Photographs on front cover (right) and page 18 (top left) by Sam Leung
Photograph on page 2 (center) by Murase Associates, Landscape Architects
Photographs on page 2 (top), page 18 (bottom left, right), and page 29 (bottom left) by Bob Long Photography
Design by Saputo Design, Inc  .Amgen Inc  .
One Amgen Center Drive
Thousand Oaks, CA 91320-1799
www  .amgen  .com