ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, & 
GOVERNANCE REPORT 2020INTRODUCTION
INTRODUCTION
About This Report 2
About Amgen 3
2020 ESG Highlights 5
Leadership Message 6
Our Approach to ESG 7
COVID-19 RESPONSE  14
APPENDIX
UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 65
Selected Company Performance Data 67
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Measures  68
SASB Table 69BUSINESS ETHICS  18
ETHICAL RESEARCH  22
ACCESS TO MEDICINE  29
DIVERSITY , INCLUSION, AND BELONGING  37
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY  44
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING  55
COMMUNITY INVESTMENT  58GOVERNANCE 10
OUR MISSION:
TO SERVE PATIENTSAbout This Report  
This report describes our progress from January 1, 2020, 
to December 31, 2020. The content is based on those 
environmental, social, and governance (ESG) issues deemed 
most important to Amgen through our comprehensive 
Stakeholder Perspective Assessment, as well as a review 
of relevant reporting standards and frameworks. All of our 
business operations worldwide are in scope unless otherwise 
stated. Throughout this report, we also guide readers to 
additional sources of information. 
We have prepared this report in alignment with The 
Biopharma Investor Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) Communications Guidance. Launched in 2020, 
the Guidance identifies high-priority ESG topics for our 
sector and recommends how to structure information and 
disclosures in a useful format for investors. The Guidance 
integrates components and principles of the Sustainability 
Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Biotechnology & 
Pharmaceuticals Sustainability Accounting Standard, as well 
as the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD) reporting standard. Our reporting also reflects our 
alignment with the United Nations (UN) Global Compact and 
Sustainable Development Goals. 
We value and welcome feedback from all stakeholders. 
Please send comments or questions about this report to 
ESG@amgen.com.2COVID- 19 
RESPONSEETHICAL 
RESEARCHBUSINESS 
ETHICSACCESS TO 
MEDICINERESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTGOVERNANCE APPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGAbout Amgen  
Amgen is committed to unlocking the potential of biology 
for patients suffering from serious illnesses by discovering, 
developing, manufacturing, and delivering innovative 
human therapeutics. This approach begins by using 
tools such as advanced human genetics to unravel the 
complexities of disease and understand the fundamentals 
of human biology. 
Our belief – and the core of our strategy – is that innovative, 
highly differentiated medicines that provide large clinical 
benefits in addressing serious diseases are medicines that 
will not only help patients, but also will help reduce the 
social and economic burden of disease on society today. 
Amgen focuses on areas of high unmet medical need, 
leveraging its expertise to strive for solutions that improve 
health outcomes and dramatically improve people’s lives. 
A biotechnology pioneer, Amgen has grown to be one of 
the world’s leading independent biotechnology companies, 
has reached millions of patients around the world with its 
medicines, and is developing a pipeline of medicines with 
breakaway potential.
We focus our research in three therapeutic areas: 
cardiometabolic disease, inflammation, and oncology. Our medicines typically address diseases for which there are 
limited treatment options, or provide a viable option to those 
which are otherwise available.
As such, Amgen is a leader in developing and manufacturing 
biosimilars (medications that are biologically similar to existing 
biologic treatments). Backed by more than four decades 
of biologics expertise, our high-quality biosimilars have the 
potential to offer more affordable, life-altering treatment 
options that contribute to the sustainability of healthcare 
systems while allowing for greater investment in new 
medicines for patients.
Our Values
•   Be science-based.  Our success depends on superior 
scientific innovation, integrity, and continuous 
improvement in all aspects of our business through 
the application of the scientific method. The scientific 
method is a multistep process that includes designing 
the right experiment, collecting and analyzing data, and 
rational decision-making. It is not subjective or emotional, 
but rather a logical, open, rational process. Applying 
the scientific method in all parts of the organization is 
expected and highly valued.
•   Compete intensely and win.  We compete against 
time, past performance, and industry rivals to rapidly 
achieve high-quality results. Winning requires taking 
risks. We cannot be lulled into complacency by previous 
achievements. Though we compete intensely, we maintain 
high ethical standards and demand integrity in our dealings 
with competitors, customers, partners, and each other.•   Create value for patients, employees, and stockholders. 
We provide value by focusing on the needs of patients. Amgen 
creates a work environment that provides opportunities for 
employees to reach their full potential. We strive to provide 
stockholders with superior long-term returns while balancing 
the needs of patients, employees, and stockholders.
•   Be ethical.  We are relentless in applying the highest ethical 
standards to our products, services, and communications.
•   Trust and respect each other. Every job at Amgen is 
important, and every Amgen employee is important. We 
attract diverse, capable, and committed people and 
provide an environment that fosters inclusion, respect, 
individual responsibility, and values diversity. Trust is 
strengthened through personal initiative and by obtaining 
quality results rapidly.
•   Ensure quality. Quality is a cornerstone of all of our 
activities. We seek the highest-quality information, 
decisions, and people. We produce high-quality products 
and services. Quality is woven into the fabric of everything 
we do. Our website contains additional information about 
our approach to Quality and Patient Safety.
•   Work in teams. Our teams work quickly to move 
scientific breakthroughs from the lab through the clinic 
to the marketplace and to support other aspects of our 
business. Diverse teams working together generate the 
best decisions for patients, employees, and stockholders. 
Our team structure provides opportunities for Amgen 
employees to affect the direction of the organization, to 
gain broader perspective about other functions within 
Amgen, and to reach their full potential.3INTRODUCTION
Oncology InflammationCardiovascular 
diseaseCOVID- 19 
RESPONSEETHICAL 
RESEARCHBUSINESS 
ETHICSACCESS TO 
MEDICINERESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTGOVERNANCE APPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGING•   Collaborate, communicate, and be accountable.  
Leaders at Amgen seek input and involve key 
stakeholders in important decisions. In gathering input, 
strong leaders will welcome diverse opinions, conflicting 
views, and open dialogue for serious consideration. They 
will clearly communicate decisions and rationale openly 
and in a timely manner. Once a decision is made, the 
leader and members of the team will all be accountable 
for the results and for implementing the decision rapidly.
By the Numbers*
Year Founded
Total RevenuesHeadquarters
Number of 
Countries Where 
Products Are SoldEmployees
R&D Investment
Stock Listing1980
$25.4 billionThousand Oaks, California
~ 100~ 24,000
$4.2 billion
NASDAQ; ticker symbol AMGN
*As of December 31, 2020.Recognition in 2020
Barron’s named Amgen to its 100 Most Sustainable 
Companies Right Now list.
Amgen ranked among the top biotech companies in 
corporate responsibility with its inclusion on the Dow Jones 
Sustainability Indices (DJSI) World Index for the seventh 
year in a row. Amgen was also included on the DJSI North 
America Index for the eighth consecutive year. 
Ranked among America’s Best Employers for Diversity in   
2020 by Forbes Magazine.
Amgen ranked number 12 out of 144 companies surveyed by 
Military Times in its Best Place for Vets: Employers ranking.
The Great Place to Work Institute honored Amgen as one 
of the best workplaces in Europe.
Amgen earned a perfect score of 100% on the Corporate 
Equality Index for the fourth year in a row.
InHerSight honored Amgen as one of the top biotechnology 
companies for women, ranking us number 6 on its Best 
Biotechnology Companies to Work For list.
Amgen’s Sustainalytics ESG Risk Rating places it in the 
top 1 percent for the biotech subindustry (2 out of 360)1 and 
in the top 3 percent for the broader pharmaceutical industry 
(16 out of 841).
Amgen ranked as one of the leading companies in the United 
States for workplace health and wellness in the American 
Heart Association’s Workplace Health Achievement Index, 
qualifying for Gold Recognition.
1 Sustainalytics.4COVID- 19 
RESPONSEETHICAL 
RESEARCHBUSINESS 
ETHICSACCESS TO 
MEDICINERESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTGOVERNANCE APPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGINTRODUCTION
Founding member of 
OneTen, a coalition to hire
1 million Black 
Americans
over 10 years
24 million 
students
reached in 2020 through 
Amgen Foundation5 
science education 
programs
$1.5 billion  
Value2 of medicines provided at 
no cost to low-income patients 
in the United States through the 
Amgen Safety Net Foundation3
Committed to being
carbon neutral
by 20272020 ESG HIGHLIGHTS
Increasing
diversity in 
clinical trials 
through the RISE and 
Lazarex programs45
2 Valued at wholsale acquisition cost.
3 Amgen Safety Net Foundation, a separate legal entity funded solely by Amgen.
4 RISE and Lazarex programs.
5 Amgen Foundation, a separate legal entity funded soley by Amgen.COVID- 19 
RESPONSEETHICAL 
RESEARCHBUSINESS 
ETHICSACCESS TO 
MEDICINERESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTGOVERNANCE APPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGINTRODUCTIONLEADERSHIP MESSAGE
I am delighted to welcome 
you to Amgen’s latest 
Environmental, Social, and 
Governance Report.
Over the more than four 
decades since Amgen was 
founded, we have contributed 
to society in many ways – 
most importantly by bringing 
innovative medicines to 
patients suffering from serious 
disease, but also by taking care of our employees and their 
families, being a good neighbor in our local communities, 
and operating our business in an ethical, environmentally 
responsible, socially inclusive manner. 
As we look to the future, we will continue to do our part to 
address the many challenges facing society. To help combat 
climate change, for example, we announced in January 2021 
a commitment to achieve net-zero carbon emissions by 2027, 
along with a 40% reduction in water use and a 75% reduction 
in waste disposed.6 These new targets build on the progress 
we’ve made in these three areas since 2007, even as we 
have significantly expanded our geographic footprint. 
Turning to social performance, we are taking steps to make our 
Company a place where everyone feels they belong and can achieve their full potential. We come at this important work from 
a position of strength, with a 2020 survey showing that the vast 
majority of Amgen employees globally believe they “work in an 
environment that is free from harassment and discrimination” 
and are “treated with respect and dignity.” To build on this 
strong foundation, we instituted mandatory unconscious-bias 
training for all employees in 2020. This training is complete 
in the United States, Puerto Rico, and Canada, and will now 
be rolled out to the rest of the organization. Amgen has ten 
employee resource groups, each organized around a primary 
diversity dimension and sponsored by a member of my senior 
leadership team. Collectively, these groups increased their 
membership by 75% in 2020. 
We are also identifying ways to build a more just and 
equitable society outside of Amgen. Last year the Amgen 
Foundation committed $7.5 million to support organizations 
advancing social justice and fighting systemic racism across 
the United States. The Foundation is also supporting a 
wide range of programs that provide world-class science 
education at no cost to high school and university-level 
students around the world, including young people from low-
income and disadvantaged communities. 
With respect to governance, Amgen’s Board of Directors 
is highly independent and diverse. Directors are elected 
annually by a majority of our stockholders, and six 
new directors have been appointed since 2015. The 
lead independent director has robust, clearly defined 
responsibilities, and only independent Board members serve on key standing committees. Management (along with 
the lead independent director when appropriate) regularly 
engages with stockholders to seek their feedback. Over 
the years, we have adopted a number of stockholder-
friendly practices, including proxy access for director 
nominations and provisions enabling stockholders to act 
by written consent and call special meetings. Our Board 
oversees a long-standing, enterprise-wide approach to risk 
management that includes an Enterprise Risk Management 
program. In an indication that our governance-related efforts 
continue to bear fruit, the Wall Street Journal ranked Amgen 
number 26 on its 2020 List of Best-Managed Companies, 
which examines the governance records of 250 large, 
publicly traded companies.
Throughout this report you will see indicators of Amgen’s 
alignment with key components of the United Nations 
Global Compact and Sustainable Development Goals. 
As a signatory of the Global Compact, Amgen remains 
committed to its principles and to reporting on our progress 
in implementing them.
I invite you to explore this report to learn more about Amgen’s 
Environmental, Social, and Governance performance and the 
metrics we will use to determine our progress. 
 
Robert A. Bradway,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer6
6   Reductions take into account only verified reduction projections, and do not take into account 
changes associated with the contraction or expansion of the Company.COVID- 19 
RESPONSEETHICAL 
RESEARCHBUSINESS 
ETHICSACCESS TO 
MEDICINERESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTGOVERNANCE APPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGINTRODUCTIONSTRATEGY & OBJECTIVES
Amgen’s mission is to serve patients – and it goes beyond 
making vital medicines. We are working to help build a 
better world by focusing on the environmental, social, and 
governance (ESG) topics that matter most to our business 
and to our stakeholders.
Stakeholder Engagement  
Periodically, Amgen conducts an analysis of internal and 
external stakeholder perspectives on ESG and corporate 
responsibility. In early 2020, Amgen completed its most 
recent Stakeholder Perspective Assessment, the results of 
which are summarized in the graph on this page.
To understand internal stakeholder perspectives, we 
interviewed senior management directly involved in ESG oversight 
and issued an online survey of randomly selected global 
employees. Each of these two employee groupings were asked 
to rank key ESG topics in terms of their importance to Amgen. 
The results are shown on the horizontal axis of the graph. 
OUR 
APPROACH
TO ESG7
To understand external stakeholder perspectives, we utilized 
a sophisticated social-listening artificial-intelligence tool that 
allows us to monitor and analyze hundreds of thousands of 
communications from key stakeholder groups, including investors, 
regulators, healthcare professionals, and patient advocacy 
groups, to understand their perspectives on key ESG topics. The 
results of that analysis are shown on the vertical axis above. 
These analyses, which were conducted from October 2019 
through February 2020, allow us to understand the relative 
importance of ESG topics to the various stakeholders. It 
should be noted that we consider every ESG topic on this 
graph important, and that the completion of our analysis predated the impact of COVID-19 and the social injustice 
issues that arose later in the year. We will be updating our 
Stakeholder Perspective Assessment in 2021 to capture the 
effects of these societal changes while we continue to strive 
to better understand stakeholders’ perspectives. 
For each of these topics, Amgen engages with various 
stakeholders including government representatives, 
regulators, society, patient advocacy groups, employees, 
academia, suppliers, stockholders, and industry groups 
through one-on-one discussions, conferences and 
meetings, working groups, consortiums, and digital 
communications.RESPONSIBLE SOURCINGCORPORA TE 
RESPONSIBILITY  AND 
GOVERNANCE
ENVIRONMENT AL
SUSTA INABILITYETHICAL  RESEARCHBUSINESS ETHICS
DIVERSITY , INCLUSION 
& BELONGINGACCESS TO  MEDICINE
CORPORA TE PHILANTHROPY
INNOVA TIONPRODUCT QUALITY  & SAFETY
Priority for AmgenImportance of External Stakeholder sCOVID- 19 
RESPONSEETHICAL 
RESEARCHBUSINESS 
ETHICSACCESS TO 
MEDICINERESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTGOVERNANCE APPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGINTRODUCTIONACCESS TO MEDICINE
DIVERSITY , INCLUSION, AND BELONGING
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING
COMMUNITY INVESTMENTENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
BUSINESS ETHICSConducting our business ethically and in compliance with 
the laws and regulations that govern our business and 
industry in all markets in which we operate.
ETHICAL RESEARCHWorking to ensure that our research practices are 
transparent, responsible, and compliant with applicable 
laws, regulations, and guidelines.
Promoting and working to maintain an inclusive, high-
performing culture, where all team members embrace and 
leverage each other’s talents and backgrounds.
Advancing science education, particularly among low-
income and disadvantaged populations, and strengthening 
communities where Amgen employees live and work through 
corporate philanthropy.Striving to achieve sustainable, equitable access for our 
products to reach more patients.
Delivering value through a diverse and responsible 
supplier base.Having a positive impact on the health of our planet by 
combating climate change and preserving natural resources.ENGAGING WITH INVESTORS IN 
MEANINGFUL CONVERSATIONS ON ESG
Amgen is a member of the Biopharma Sustainability 
Roundtable (BSRT) and a founding sponsor of The 
Biopharma Investor ESG Communications Guidance 
initiative. The guidance was developed to address the 
common interests of biopharma companies and investors 
in achieving more effective, efficient, decision-useful 
communications about the sector’s highest-priority ESG 
issues. Over the course of two years, Amgen participated 
in frank, open, structured dialogue facilitated by the 
Roundtable with other biopharma companies and investors. 
In April 2020, the Guidance was formally launched. We 
have prepared this report in alignment with this Guidance.8
Amgen’s ESG Program Elements  
Amgen’s current ESG strategy focuses on seven program 
elements, as informed by our most recent Stakeholder 
Perspective Assessment.COVID- 19 
RESPONSEETHICAL 
RESEARCHBUSINESS 
ETHICSACCESS TO 
MEDICINERESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTGOVERNANCE APPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGINTRODUCTIONAlignment With Sustainable 
Development Goals
As a global biopharmaceutical company investing in 
improving human health and advancing science, we 
recognize the powerful role we can play in not only 
supporting but contributing to the achievement of the 
United Nations 17 Sustainable Development Goals. 
Through our core business and investments by the 
Amgen Foundation, we believe we can contribute in the 
most meaningful way to the following five goals. 
The pursuit of good health and well-being 
is embedded in Amgen’s mission: to serve 
patients by discovering, developing, 
manufacturing, and delivering innovative 
therapeutics that address serious diseases. 
We believe that this will not only help patients, 
but also will help reduce the social and economic burden of 
disease in society today. We also support the health, wellness, 
and safety of our employees globally, and we work to ensure 
that our suppliers do the same.Through our new seven-year 
environmental sustainability plan, we 
aim to achieve carbon neutrality, while 
reducing water usage by 40% and waste 
by 75% by 2027.7 We will invest more 
than $200 million over time to fulfill these 
commitments, building on the success of our previous 
seven-year plan.
Quality education for all is at the heart of 
the Amgen Foundation’s key activities. 
Through programs and partnerships, the 
Amgen Foundation seeks to advance 
science education, particularly among 
low-income and disadvantaged students. 
Since the Foundation’s inception in 1991, we have invested 
nearly $200 million in science education programming 
globally, and, with our partners, reached millions of students 
with high-quality science-based learning tools both in the 
classroom and online.Much of what Amgen accomplishes is 
through partnerships. In particular, our 
work to expand access to medicine 
involves a wide range of partners such 
as the CDC Foundation, Direct Relief, 
and the Union for International Cancer 
Control. We remain committed to joining with diverse 
stakeholders to tackle significant challenges from climate 
change and health to gender equality and education.
Innovation is core to Amgen’s business. In 
addition to our pioneering medicines, Amgen 
applies innovation to our manufacturing, 
partnerships, and pricing. The demonstrated 
environmental benefits of our newest 
biomanufacturing approach, which reduces the 
scale and costs of making biologics while vastly reducing water 
and energy use compared with conventional manufacturing, is also 
an example of the value of our innovative approaches.9
7   Reductions take into account only verified reduction projections, and do not take into 
account changes associated with the contraction or expansion of the Company.COVID- 19 
RESPONSEETHICAL 
RESEARCHBUSINESS 
ETHICSACCESS TO 
MEDICINERESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTGOVERNANCE APPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGINTRODUCTIONGOVERNANCE10GOVERNANCE INTRODUCTIONCOVID- 19 
RESPONSEETHICAL 
RESEARCHBUSINESS 
ETHICSACCESS TO 
MEDICINERESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGCORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Effective corporate governance is critical for both our long-
term performance and maintaining stakeholder trust. 
Our Board of Directors is governed by our Amgen Board of 
Directors Corporate Governance Principles that are amended 
from time to time to incorporate certain current best practices 
in corporate governance. Our Corporate Governance 
Principles may be found on our website at www.amgen.com.
Amgen has a highly independent Board of Directors 
elected annually by a majority of our stockholders, with 
a lead independent director with robust responsibilities. 
Only independent Board members serve on key standing 
committees. Key standing committees of our Board include 
the Audit, Compensation and Management Development, 
Corporate Responsibility and Compliance, and Governance 
and Nominating Committees. Our Board is diverse (including 
three women directors) and has strong refreshment 
practices, with six new directors appointed since 2015.
As part of its oversight of the Company, our Board oversees 
an enterprise-wide approach to risk management, which 
is designed to support the achievement of the Company’s 
objectives, including its strategic priorities to improve long-
term operational and financial performance and enhance 
stockholder interests.
For more information on our Board and our corporate governance 
practices, please visit our website and our 2021 Proxy Statement.
11
56
4
3
2
12Board Tenure
<3 Years3 -6 Years7 -9 Years> 9 Years5
4
1
Number of directors and tenure lengths shown above.
6 new directors since 2015. ~ 6 years average board tenure.GOVERNANCE INTRODUCTIONCOVID- 19 
RESPONSEETHICAL 
RESEARCHBUSINESS 
ETHICSACCESS TO 
MEDICINERESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGQ&A With the Head of ESG at Amgen
Judy Brown, Senior Vice President of Corporate Affairs 
at Amgen, is responsible for ESG initiatives and chairs the 
company’s ESG Council. Here, she discusses how ESG has 
evolved at Amgen and how it is integrated into our core mission.
How is Amgen working to integrate ESG into its business?
Because we are an innovative biopharmaceutical company, 
ESG is central to who we are and what we do. Our 
company mission – to serve patients – is our purpose. Our 
ESG strategy is how we do this. Starting in 2021, we are 
putting even more intention into how we hold ourselves 
accountable by including ESG in our Company goals and 
formally integrating ESG metrics into our annual bonus 
program for all eligible employees.How would you describe the role and engagement of the 
Amgen Board in ESG matters?
The Corporate Responsibility and Compliance Committee 
(CRCC) of our Board has a long history of oversight and 
involvement, overseeing our programs and policies to help 
ensure we are doing the right thing for our employees, for 
our communities, and for the environment. Compliance 
with the law is just the starting point. The CRCC challenges 
us to go above and beyond with both our corporate and 
our philanthropic initiatives. When we expanded our 
aperture from corporate responsibility to the broader ESG 
framework, the Board was extremely supportive. They fully 
appreciate and are focused on the important role ESG 
plays in furthering Amgen’s mission. The CRCC is regularly 
engaged in the oversight of ESG, and we regularly discuss 
our comprehensive ESG strategy with the full Board.
How does Amgen’s ESG Council help carry out the 
Company’s ESG goals?
The ESG Council brings together senior executives from 
various functions to discuss opportunities and initiatives in 
those areas most significant to Amgen. Council members 
also bring in stakeholder voices from external engagement 
activities occurring in their respective areas of expertise. 
Together, the Council discusses and approves proposals 
and recommendations, prioritizes areas for investment, and 
evaluates any emerging trends. The Council’s role is relatively 
new at Amgen, but in a short time it has already helped to add 
rigor into how we analyze and guide Amgen’s ESG strategy.How have the events of 2020 shaped ESG at Amgen?
It is difficult to overestimate the social impact the events 
of the past 12 months have had on not only Amgen but all 
organizations – increasing unemployment, concerns around 
health and wellness, social inequality, and lack of social 
justice in many communities. These issues of course have 
always been there, but they boiled to the surface very visibly 
around the world in 2020. 
At Amgen, we have been focused on diversity and inclusion 
and healthcare disparities for many years, but the events 
of 2020 caused us to accelerate our actions and take them 
to the next level. We asked ourselves — and our Board 
challenged us to question whether we were doing everything 
we could. This led us to establish a number of new diversity, 
inclusion, and belonging efforts and programs to better 
ensure that we were supporting our employees as they 
navigated the challenges of COVID-19. For example, we 
expanded our existing programs to support employee health 
and wellness, including mental health (see page 15) and 
expanded our approach to flexible work. Working closely 
with our Employee Resource Groups, we also developed 
programs and events to address ongoing social injustice 
issues to help educate our employees, create a stronger 
sense of belonging for everyone at Amgen, and demonstrate 
the value of being true advocates for one another. Through 
the Amgen Foundation, we also increased our investments 
to organizations working toward racial equality in the 12GOVERNANCE INTRODUCTIONCOVID- 19 
RESPONSEETHICAL 
RESEARCHBUSINESS 
ETHICSACCESS TO 
MEDICINERESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGMORE INFORMATION
Corporate Responsibility and Compliance Committee13
communities where we live and work (see page 42), and 
we have accelerated our efforts to increase diversity in our 
clinical trials (see page 28).
More than ever before, 2020 demonstrated that companies 
cannot be silent on important social issues such as racial 
injustice. They need to take action and use their voices.
Where do you feel the company has made the  
most progress?
We have a strong ESG track record and an ambitious 
agenda moving forward. In some ways, I think we’ve 
hidden our light under a bushel for the past few years, while 
focusing on developing strong systems that could yield 
repeatable results. For example, we met and exceeded most 
of our 2020 environmental targets well ahead of schedule 
(see page 49). And, we helped low-income patients in the 
United States with no or inadequate insurance by providing 
$1.5 billion8 worth of therapies in 2020. The Amgen Safety 
Net Foundation has never refused a qualified patient. As we 
move into 2021, we will continue these efforts and celebrate 
our progress, knowing that there is more to do.ESG GOVERNANCE
The Amgen Board of Directors provides oversight of 
Amgen’s ESG activities, while the CRCC recieves updates 
on specific ESG and corporate responsibility programs and 
activities, as well as related compliance activities. Amgen’s 
executive management provides the Board and the CRCC 
with updates regarding the status and progress of the 
Company’s ESG strategy and priority areas of focus.
Within Amgen, there are two levels of management 
governance for ESG:
•   The cross-functional executive-level ESG Council that sets 
and reviews the Company’s ESG strategy and programs. 
The council is chaired by the Senior Vice President of 
Corporate Affairs and includes six other executive-level 
representatives from across the organization. It meets 
approximately six times per year.
•   The ESG Working Committee, consisting of ESG Program 
Element Leaders and other key employees related to ESG, 
coordinates the implementation of strategy for each of 
Amgen’s seven ESG areas of focus, ensuring integration 
of our ESG strategy into each functional area. The 
Committee members are also responsible for identifying 
emerging ESG issues for their areas and raising them with 
the ESG Council for discussion and analysis.
8 Valued at wholesale acquisition costGOVERNANCE INTRODUCTIONCOVID- 19 
RESPONSEETHICAL 
RESEARCHBUSINESS 
ETHICSACCESS TO 
MEDICINERESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGRESPONDING TO THE UNPRECEDENTED GLOBAL CHALLENGE OF COVID-19COVID-19 RESPONSECOVID-19 
RESPONSE 14INTRODUCTIONETHICAL 
RESEARCHBUSINESS 
ETHICSACCESS TO 
MEDICINERESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGGOVERNANCEThe COVID-19 pandemic has been the most significant 
public health challenge in modern history, affecting virtually 
every continent, sector, and community. The response of the 
biopharmaceutical industry is particularly important to society, 
and we want to share how Amgen responded to this crisis. 
Ensuring Employee Health   
and Well-Being 
With the emergence of the pandemic in early 2020, we took 
swift and immediate action to protect the health and well-
being of our employees and their families. 
In March, we required that the majority of our employees 
work from home to encourage the social distancing needed 
to bend the curve of the pandemic. We also committed to 
pay continuity for our employees. In the United States and 
Puerto Rico, we provided our employees working from home 
a monthly stipend for home broadband Internet access 
along with an allowance to purchase necessary home-office 
equipment. We set up an internal website dedicated to 
COVID-19 for employees to review updates, video messages 
from leadership, and podcasts, access training, and obtain 
answers to frequently asked questions. We also launched 
additional dedicated technical support globally. 
To work to ensure the safety of our employees and 
contractors who continued to work from our manufacturing 
and research sites, we provided personal protective 
equipment, enhanced cleaning procedures, screened visitors, performed contact tracing, and took measures 
to ensure physical distancing. In the United States, 
we implemented temperature screenings and periodic 
COVID-19 testing as additional prevention measures.
To support employees during the pandemic, Amgen 
expanded and introduced new benefits including mental 
health benefits, education support, discounts on childcare 
and academic tutoring services, online learning resources, 
and additional Company-wide paid days off. We provided 
free access to virtual fitness classes to all full-time Amgen 
employees and their families. We also provided manager 
resources, including resilience training, to help leaders 
assist their teams through this period of dynamic change.
For more information on how we supported our employees, 
please visit our website.Here is what they said:How Did We Do?
We conducted two global COVID-specific surveys, asking 
employees whether they felt that Amgen had taken adequate 
measures to protect them during the pandemic. More than 
6,000 employees responded.
Were satisfied with 
Amgen’s response to 
COVID-19, including 
our decision early in the 
pandemic to require that 
most employees work 
from home.
Agreed that Amgen takes 
a genuine interest in 
employees’ well-being, was 
providing the resources 
people need to do their 
work, and was doing a 
good job with employee 
communications.
91%
90 %15
COVID-19 
RESPONSEINTRODUCTIONETHICAL 
RESEARCHBUSINESS 
ETHICSACCESS TO 
MEDICINERESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGGOVERNANCESupporting the Search for Potential 
COVID-19 Treatments
We are also contributing our scientific and manufacturing 
expertise directly to the fight against COVID-19. For example, 
our deCODE Genetics subsidiary has conducted extensive 
genetic research into how the coronavirus spreads and 
mutates, and its findings were published in The New England 
Journal of Medicine. Our company is collaborating with Eli Lilly 
and Company to manufacture antibody therapies that have 
received emergency use authorization from the U.S. Food and 
Drug Administration (FDA) for treating patients with mild-to-
moderate COVID-19 who are at high risk for progressing to 
severe COVID-19 and/or hospitalization.
“We are proud to partner with Lilly and 
leverage our deep technical expertise in 
antibody development and, in particular, 
our strong capabilities in the scale up and 
manufacturing of complex biologics. This 
is yet another example of the ways our 
industry is closely collaborating to combat 
this devastating disease and help patients 
around the world access new therapies.”
– Esteban Santos,
Executive Vice President of Operations at AmgenWorking to Ensure Ongoing Access 
and Patient Support 
The fear of COVID-19 prevented many people living with 
chronic health conditions from leaving their homes, delaying 
regularly scheduled doctor’s visits, and even avoiding 
emergency treatments. However, delaying or avoiding 
medical care may dramatically worsen a person’s disease 
and further increase mortality rates, particularly for patients 
living with heart disease and cancer. Because many of 
Amgen’s medicines need to be administered at a medical 
office or clinic, this posed additional challenges for ensuring 
ongoing patient treatment.
In March, Amgen began to collect and share solutions from 
Amgen teams around the world that helped support patients 
taking Amgen medicines and assist with ongoing access 
to care. Through the Continuity of Care Initiative, Amgen 
gathered more than 50 best practices from 25 countries, and 
broadly disseminated them to Amgen teams to rapidly share 
solutions and learnings across the organization. 
Examples of challenges and solutions developed include: 
Argentina: Early in the pandemic, patients in Argentina 
feared traveling to hospitals and clinics for their ongoing 
therapeutic treatment. Amgen responded by providing 
patient transfers to and from hospitals and clinics, which 
allowed patients to avoid crowded public transportation. 
The team also worked with healthcare providers to 
enable at-home routine care, such as blood draws. United States: Amgen worked with the FDA to gain 
approval for a temporary self-injection option for PROLIA® 
(denosumab) patients. After the FDA’s temporary 
approval, Amgen distributed information to healthcare 
providers and patients to support self-injection.
Greece: As in other countries, many patients were 
hesitant to venture to pharmacies for prescriptions. 
Amgen introduced home delivery service as part of 
its “REPATHA On Path” Patient Support Program. 
Through the program, Amgen works with a third 
party to pick up patients’ REPATHA® (evolocumab) 
prescriptions from 15 different pharmacies across 
Greece and deliver them directly to patients’ homes. 
Similar solutions were rolled out in Italy, United Arab 
Emirates, and a number of other Amgen markets.
Amgen also donated $1 million to support the   
American Heart Association’s COVID-19 rapid response 
efforts including the formation of its COVID-19 patient 
registry. The registry aims to improve the scientific 
community’s understanding of how the virus affects 
cardiovascular health and better manage patients for 
improved health outcomes.
16COVID-19 
RESPONSEINTRODUCTIONETHICAL 
RESEARCHBUSINESS 
ETHICSACCESS TO 
MEDICINERESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGGOVERNANCEWorking to Ensure Continuity of 
Clinical Trials and Patient Safety
Clinical trials are a critical part of our development of 
life-saving medicines. Despite the challenges presented 
by COVID-19, we remained relentlessly focused on the 
safe continuation of our trials wherever possible so that, 
if successful, new treatments would not be delayed from 
reaching patients who could benefit from them.
We also sought to ensure the safety of those patients 
receiving investigational medicines through Amgen-
sponsored clinical trials.
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we managed our 
clinical development on a case-by-case basis. Through 
efforts including direct-to-patient shipments, patients who 
were already enrolled in studies continued to receive study 
drug. For studies that had the potential for significant benefit 
in a serious or life-threatening condition and when site 
resources enabled new patients to be enrolled safely and 
monitored closely, we continued enrollment. For clinical 
trials experiencing uncertainty about the trial sites’ ability 
to ensure subject safety or data integrity at that time, we 
temporarily paused enrollment.
We remain focused on supporting our active clinical sites 
in providing care for these patients and investigational drug 
supply. To date, most clinical trials that were paused at 
the onset of the pandemic to ensure subject safety or data 
integrity have resumed.Supporting Communities   
During COVID-19 
COVID-19 hit local communities across the globe with 
devastating impact, exacerbating existing challenges such 
as hunger and access to education and healthcare. 
In March 2020, Amgen and the Amgen Foundation pledged 
$12.5 million to support COVID-19 relief efforts around 
the world. Some of these funds have gone to nonprofit 
organizations like Direct Relief that have broad, international 
reach. The vast majority of our donations, however, were 
made at the local level — to food banks, ambulance squads, 
and senior care facilities. Additionally, the Amgen Foundation 
worked to extend the impact of two virtual science education 
platforms it supports, Khan Academy and LabXchange. 
These platforms — free to everyone — became increasingly 
important as millions of students stayed home from school all 
around the world. (For more information, see page 61.)
“This crisis will undoubtedly have far-
reaching consequences for millions of 
people around the world, especially for 
our most vulnerable populations. Given 
our mission, it is our duty to step up 
even more in this time of crisis.”  
– Sal Khan, Founder of the Khan Academy
17
COVID-19 
RESPONSEINTRODUCTIONETHICAL 
RESEARCHBUSINESS 
ETHICSACCESS TO 
MEDICINERESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGGOVERNANCEBUSINESS 
ETHICS 18
BUSINESS ETHICSINTRODUCTIONETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINERESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGGOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEAMBITION
We are committed to conducting our business ethically 
and helping ensure that Amgen complies with the laws and 
regulations that govern our business and industry in all 
markets in which we operate.
GOVERNANCE 
The Amgen Board of Directors has a standing Corporate 
Responsibility and Compliance Committee (CRCC) that 
assists the Board in overseeing Amgen’s Worldwide 
Compliance & Business Ethics Program. It also oversees 
several programs designed to further encourage 
ethical conduct. The CRCC oversees management’s 
implementation of, and ongoing improvement to, the 
program elements, including its systems and processes, 
mechanisms for employees to seek guidance and report 
concerns, and efforts to promote an ethical culture.Amgen’s Chief Compliance Officer (CCO), who reports 
to both the CEO and the CRCC, leads and manages 
the ongoing operations of the Company’s Worldwide 
Compliance & Business Ethics Program and the centralized 
Healthcare Compliance organization. The CCO is 
responsible for assuring that the elements of an effective 
compliance program are in place, which include policies 
and procedures that support a strong ethical culture, training 
and education, auditing and monitoring of compliance 
risks, and compliance investigations. The CCO provides an 
assessment of Amgen’s state of compliance to the CRCC.
The Compliance Committee is chaired by Amgen’s CEO 
and includes Amgen’s Operating Team, made up of the 
Company’s most senior executives. The CCO facilitates 
the work of the committee, which has the responsibility 
to drive the ongoing operations and cross-functional 
integration of compliance activities within the Company. 
Its responsibilities include reviewing key compliance risks 
and associated mitigation plans, seeing that compliance- 
and business-ethics-related strategic initiatives are 
appropriately prioritized, resourced and tracked, 
overseeing the operation of the Compliance Council, and 
ensuring that compliance performance is part of executive 
management reviews. Operating Team members work 
with the Amgen compliance professionals embedded in 
their organizations who have day-to-day responsibility 
for overseeing that the specific compliance risks and 
requirements of their areas are addressed.STRATEGY & OBJECTIVES  
Our goal is to work to ensure that in all areas of our business 
we operate according to the highest standards of ethical 
conduct and compliance with the laws and regulations that 
govern our business and industry.
We embrace ethics and transparency across many 
dimensions, from the way we treat our employees and 
patients, to our focus on human rights and equity, to our 
partnerships with suppliers. Our Board has adopted a code 
of business that applies to our Board, all our employees, and 
others conducting business on our behalf. Annual training 
on this global code of conduct is required and our Board 
participates in such training. We also have a code of ethics 
for senior financial officers. To view our codes of business 
conduct and ethics, please visit our website. 
Our Code of Conduct and Corporate Compliance Policies 
applies to all Amgen locations, affiliates, and subsidiaries. 
Failure to comply with the Code of Conduct, Amgen policies, 
or applicable laws can result in disciplinary action up to and 
including termination. Disciplinary action may also be taken 
when managers ignore misconduct or fail to correct it. 
In addition, managers provide feedback on employees’ 
conduct in line with Amgen’s Values – including “Be Ethical” 
– in annual employee performance reviews, which is a 
significant factor in annual compensation decisions.19BUSINESS 
ETHICSINTRODUCTIONETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINERESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGGOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEPROGRAMMATIC  
HIGHLIGHTS
Summary of Amgen’s Corporate 
Compliance Policies and Code of Conduct
•   Anti-bribery and Anti-corruption: Amgen will not tolerate 
acts or attempts to improperly influence government 
personnel or private individuals to secure improper 
advantage for Amgen’s commercial interests.
•   Antitrust and Unfair Competition: Amgen does not 
tolerate any business transaction or activity that violates 
the antitrust and competition laws of any country in which 
the Company conducts business.
•   Conflicts of Interest: Amgen employees are responsible 
for avoiding situations in which personal interests, outside 
activities, financial interests, or relationships conflict or 
even appear to conflict with the Company’s interests.
•   Interactions with Healthcare Providers: Amgen requires 
that all interactions with healthcare providers and other 
customers comply with all applicable laws and adhere to the 
highest standards of professional ethics and responsibility.
•   Protection of Personal Information: Amgen is committed 
to the lawful stewardship of personal information that is 
collected, stored, and used by the Company. We respect 
personal privacy. Everyone in the Company has a role 
to play in protecting and securing personal information.  
Any concerns related to a potential and/or actual breach of personal information are considered to be serious in 
nature and are thoroughly investigated.
•   Nondiscrimination and Harassment-Free Workplace: 
Amgen does not tolerate unlawful harassment by or 
toward employees, or with those whom Amgen has a 
business, service, or professional relationship.
Our CCO sends regular communications about these and other 
relevant ethics and compliance issues to Amgen employees. 
For example, with the increase in the use of telemedicine 
during COVID-19, employees received information about 
compliance measures and ethical considerations for 
telemedicine’s use. The CCO also joins Amgen’s functional 
leaders during departmental meetings to discuss ethics and 
compliance topics. In addition, our CCO is a thought leader 
who speaks regularly at industry summits and congresses 
about key trends that affect compliance, such as digital 
transformation and business continuity during COVID-19.
Business Conduct
All managers are responsible for creating and maintaining 
a work environment that encourages asking questions 
and reporting concerns regarding business conduct. All 
Amgen leaders (vice president and above, plus other 
select roles) must also participate in the Global Ethics & 
Compliance Declaration Program, which requires them to 
execute an ethics and compliance engagement plan and 
sign a declaration form annually. Among other things, the 
declaration form includes a conflict of interest disclosure.Employees and anyone external to the Company can report 
suspected misconduct or ask a question by phone or 
webform to Amgen’s Business Conduct Hotline. Reporters 
may remain anonymous unless they are from countries 
where anonymity is discouraged or not permitted by 
law. The hotline is hosted by a third-party vendor and 
available globally 24 hours a day, every day. Translators 
are also available when placing a call, and the webform for 
submission of concerns is available in multiple languages. 
Amgen policy prohibits any form of retaliation or 
intimidation against Amgen employees for reporting a 
compliance concern in good faith. Employees who engage 
in retaliation or intimidation will be subject to disciplinary 
action, up to and including termination.
VALUE CREATION 
Our Worldwide Compliance & Business Ethics Program 
enables the Company to mitigate and take corrective action 
against any recurring ethical or compliance violations. It 
also enhances our ability to anticipate emerging issues 
and develop proactive programs to address them. This is 
a key aspect of how the Company works to reduce the risk 
of unethical business practices. Our disclosure of policies 
that govern how Amgen operates and our efforts to ensure 
enterprise-wide compliance with them helps increase the trust 
and support of stakeholders, both internal and external, who 
are necessary for Amgen to achieve its mission.20BUSINESS 
ETHICSINTRODUCTIONETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINERESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGGOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEPERFORMANCE 
Each year, we conduct periodic pulse surveys to evaluate 
employee perception of the culture of compliance and ethics 
within the organization, and we use results to inform our 
business ethics program. In 2020, we surveyed all Amgen 
employees globally about our ethics climate. The survey 
measured program awareness, program effectiveness, and 
organizational culture.
We had strong participation across the globe, and our 
scores exceeded industry benchmarks. Results highlighted 
that Amgen employees:
•   believe Amgen has a strong ethical culture.
•   are aware of all of Amgen’s foundational ethics and 
compliance program elements.
•   do not feel pressure to compromise ethical standards.
MORE INFORMATION
Code of Conduct
Corporate Compliance Policies21
*  Reflects the % of employees who 
responded as such on Amgen’s 
2020 Business Ethics survey.
** Based on scores from companies in 
the following sectors: healthcare, 
pharmaceuticals, research, 
biotechnology, and medical 
equipment. Source: Ethics & 
Compliance Initiative100%100%
80%
60%
40%
20%80%
46%84%
62%71%
21%
% of employees  
trained on Code 
of Conduc t% of employees who 
believe that Amgen has 
a strong ethical culture*% of employees who 
are aware of all of 
Amgen’ s foundational 
ethics and compliance 
program elements*% of employees who 
do not feel pressure 
to compromise 
ethical standards*Industry Benchmark**2020 Amgen 
Employee Survey2020 Performance DataBUSINESS 
ETHICSINTRODUCTIONETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINERESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGGOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEETHICAL 
RESEARCH 22
ETHICAL RESEARCHINTRODUCTIONACCESS TO 
MEDICINERESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGGOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSGOVERNANCE 
Our Executive Vice President of Research and Development 
(R&D) provides regular updates to the Amgen Board 
of Directors on our research pipeline and development 
activities. Our senior R&D leadership team plays a key 
management role in the governance of ethical issues related 
to R&D. Updates on R&D compliance are also provided to 
the Corporate Responsibility and Compliance Committee of 
the Board of Directors at least once per year.
Amgen has also established three Scientific Advisory Boards 
composed of external experts who provide scientific review 
of our R&D activities and may assist Amgen in making 
significant scientific judgments.
AMBITION
We are dedicated to ensuring that our research practices 
are transparent, responsible, and compliant with applicable 
laws, regulations, and guidelines.STRATEGY & OBJECTIVES  
Amgen aims to discover, develop, and deliver 
transformative medicines to address some of the leading 
causes of death and disability worldwide, working to meet 
the needs of as many patients as possible. During all 
stages of drug development, a cross-functional team with 
representatives from our research, commercial, medical 
affairs, and manufacturing divisions works to define a 
potential new medicine’s target profile – the qualities we 
want to build into the medicine – to help us develop well-
differentiated, accessible therapies. We also gather insights 
from external stakeholders to inform evidence needs for the 
global healthcare ecosystem.
A significant majority of our research is focused on 
treatments for diseases that are widely prevalent, 
including cardiovascular disease, oncology, and 
inflammation. The number of deaths attributed to these 
conditions are increasing and now account for the vast 
majority of global deaths each year.9
In conducting research within Amgen and with our 
partners, we have policies in place to help to ensure high 
ethical standards are met worldwide.
9 World Health Statistics, 2020.PROGRAMMATIC 
HIGHLIGHTS
Clinical Research and Development  
Clinical trials allow Amgen to evaluate investigational new 
treatments in volunteers to generate the safety and efficacy 
information needed to obtain approval of those treatments 
and make them available to the broader patient population. 
Generally, at any given time, Amgen may conduct more than 
100 clinical trials involving a significant number of patients in 
countries around the globe. 
The rights, dignity, safety, and well-being of research 
participants are paramount in conducting Amgen clinical trials. 
To that end, all Amgen-sponsored trials are designed and 
conducted in accordance with the high standards required by 
our Global Code of Ethics for Clinical Trials. Our standards 
meet or exceed applicable local laws as well as widely 
accepted international regulatory standards.23
ETHICAL 
RESEARCHINTRODUCTIONACCESS TO 
MEDICINERESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGGOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSEnsuring Ethical Standards in   
Clinical Trials Globally
Our approach to clinical research is based on fundamental 
ethical standards such as those listed below. More details 
are available in our Global Code of Ethics for Clinical Trials.
•   Amgen research is designed to answer a legitimate 
scientific question or need. 
•   Amgen selects clinical investigators based on 
qualifications, training, research, clinical expertise 
in relevant fields, the potential to recruit research 
participants, and the ability to conduct clinical trials 
consistent with Amgen’s policies. 
•   Amgen-sponsored trials undergo an ethical review, 
as required, by a qualified independent committee 
(Institutional Review Board/ Independent Ethics 
Committee) prior to trial initiation.
•   Amgen requires voluntary informed consent from 
research participants, where needed, prior to carrying 
out any protocol-specified procedures. The process for 
obtaining informed consent takes into account local law, 
language, and custom as well as the ability of research 
participants to understand the information presented. •   The standard of care provided to control groups is, at a 
minimum, equivalent to well-established and commonly 
employed local treatment.
•   In some cases, and where allowed by law, Amgen may 
provide continued access to its investigational products 
to research participants once a clinical trial is complete.
Clinical Trial Transparency
We believe that transparency is critical for promoting public 
confidence in the development process of a new medicine and 
helps to foster important advances in medicine and science by 
the broader scientific and global health community.
Amgen is committed to the timely registration of clinical 
trials, communication of research results, and routine 
publication of Amgen-sponsored trials and observational 
studies. We support the data-sharing initiatives and 
principles adopted by the Pharmaceutical Research 
and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA), the European 
Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations 
(EFPIA), and the International Federation of Pharmaceutical 
Manufacturers & Associations (IFPMA). 
Amgentrials.com offers patients, investigators, and the public 
easily accessible information about Amgen-sponsored clinical 
trials, including enrollment information for actively recruiting 
studies. For some studies, technical and/or plain-language 
summaries of study results are also available. Registering Clinical Trials 
We register Amgen-sponsored interventional clinical trials on 
public registries before they start or within 21 days after they start:
•   On clinicaltrials.gov (U.S.): All phase 2 to phase 4 
studies, and most phase 1 studies that enroll patients, 
conducted anywhere in the world.
•   On the EU Clinical Trial Register [EudraCT]: All phase 1 
to phase 4 studies conducted in Europe.
We register certain Amgen-sponsored non-interventional 
studies on the EU PAS Register before the start of data 
collection, including: 
• post-authorization safety studies.
• other non-interventional studies when requested by 
our protocol governance committees, such as non-
interventional studies planned for submission to health 
authorities in a marketing application.
Once clinical trials results are available, Amgen is 
committed to providing scientifically accurate, truthful, 
non-misleading, and well-balanced results to the scientific 
community – regardless of trial outcome or regulatory 
approval. We submit the results of the primary analysis of all 
completed Amgen-sponsored phase 2 and phase 3 studies 
to congresses or peer-reviewed journals within 18 months 
of trial completion. In addition, we post technical summary 
results on the registry(ies) where the study was registered. 24ETHICAL 
RESEARCHINTRODUCTIONACCESS TO 
MEDICINERESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGGOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSIn preparation for new requirements under the EU Clinical Trial 
Regulation, Amgen is developing plain-language summaries of 
trial results for appropriate studies. These will be made available 
in every language used during the clinical trial on the Amgen 
Trials webpage and the Trial Results Summaries portals.
Diversity in Clinical Trials
We are working to improve the diversity and representation of 
racial and ethnic minority populations in clinical trial research 
at Amgen and advance solutions and dialogue in this area 
across the industry.
Amgen strives to conduct trials that are as representative 
as possible of the intended patient population for 
the investigational medicine. Our goal is to include 
representative patients in clinical trials, including patients 
of diverse race, ethnicity, sex, and age. In designing our 
clinical trials, we seek to engage directly with patients, their 
caregivers, and their advocates to work to reduce burdens 
and barriers to trial participation. 
In addition, we are working to enhance clinical trial diversity 
by recruiting and selecting a range of trial locations where 
diverse patients may be treated, particularly those who have 
been historically underrepresented in research. Amgen 
is also seeking to collaborate with clinical trial staff with 
a range of backgrounds who can serve as trusted and 
knowledgeable partners to a diverse patient population. In November 2020, PhRMA published a new chapter 
of its Principles on Conduct of Clinical Trials, titled 
“Commitment to Enhancing Diversity in Clinical Trial 
Participation.” Amgen is in the process of implementing 
these principles in our clinical research and will report 
on our progress.25ETHICAL 
RESEARCHINTRODUCTIONACCESS TO 
MEDICINERESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGGOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSAMGEN EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUP PLAYS KEY 
ROLE IN CLINICAL TRIAL DIVERSITY EFFORTS 
In 2020, the Amgen Black Employee Network (ABEN), 
with sponsorship from the senior medical leadership, 
launched Representation in Clinical Research, also 
known as RISE. The initiative will work with Amgen’s 
Global Development Operations and other key groups 
to diversify investigators and clinical trial sites and work 
with community nonprofits to help remove barriers to 
participation in clinical trials.
RISE came about after discussion amongst ABEN 
members. In pushing for more diversity in studies, 
Motsepe-Ditshego says it’s important to note there are 
recognized differences in the incidence of diseases 
among racial and ethnic groups along with differences in exposure or responses to medicines. She also notes 
that barriers to enrollment differ, including economic 
barriers that prevent residents in poorer communities 
from traveling to distant sites or who can’t afford to miss 
work to participate in trials. Motsepe-Ditshego says that 
the killings of Breonna Taylor, George Floyd, and others, 
along with the subsequent Black Lives Matter marches, 
made RISE a “heightened priority.”
One of the first RISE initiatives was Amgen’s 
sponsorship of the 2020 Healthy Churches National 
Conference. Motsepe-Ditshego says it’s a start and there 
will always be more work to be done.
“It’s a journey,” she says, one she and Amgen are 
committed to taking.Ponda Motsepe-Ditshego,
Executive Medical Director and ABEN Chair
Spotlight
26ETHICAL 
RESEARCHINTRODUCTIONACCESS TO 
MEDICINERESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGGOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSUse of Animals in Research 
We are committed to the ethical and responsible treatment 
of animals required to be used in the discovery and 
development of our medicines. Amgen is a long-time 
proponent of the principles of Reduction, Refinement, and 
Replacement (“the 3 Rs”) in the required use of animals in 
research. Examples include the increased use of in-vitro 
systems to optimize early candidate selection contributing to 
a 77% reduction in rat usage in our North American vivaria 
from 2016 through 2019.10 In partnership with regulatory 
authorities, Amgen has made steady progress in eliminating 
animal use, wherever appropriate, prior to clinical evaluation. 
We do not conduct research, directly or through our 
partners, in chimpanzees and will not do so in the future. We 
are a long-standing sponsor of Chimp Haven, a sanctuary 
for chimpanzees retired from laboratory research.
Amgen’s Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee, 
composed of laboratory animal veterinarians, scientists with 
animal research experience, nonscientists, and independent 
external representative(s), oversees Amgen’s animal care 
and use program. The committee reviews all proposed 
animal studies, inspects all internal animal facilities, and 
investigates, if necessary, any animal welfare concern 
brought forward by employees or the public. We have stringent policies, standards and guidelines 
governing appropriate animal research practices Company-
wide. All internal Amgen animal programs are accredited 
by AAALAC International (the Association for Assessment 
and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International) 
or by the Canadian Council on Animal Care (CCAC). We 
hold our external business partners, including contract 
research organizations, academic institutions, and animal 
vendors, accountable to the same regulations, standards, 
and guidelines that govern our internal animal care and 
use programs. All animal research protocols conducted by 
external partners must be reviewed and approved by our 
External Studies Ethical Review Committee. 
Use of Stem Cells
Amgen recognizes the scientific potential of using animal 
or adult stem cells in research to advance the discovery 
and development of potential new medicines. Amgen 
uses a wide variety of research tools and technologies to 
help discover and develop new therapeutics, including 
animal or adult cells in preclinical research to help unlock 
new scientific insights, model complex diseases, screen 
new compounds, and identify novel medicines. Amgen 
also uses a small set of commercially available industry-
standard immortalized cell lines acquired over several 
decades for specific research-only purposes. Amgen has 
not, and does not, perform or fund research in the area of 
human embryonic or fetal stem cells.Biobanking of Human Samples 
Human samples play a vital role in Amgen’s research, including 
helping to predict the safety and effectiveness of potential new 
therapies and identify people most or least likely to benefit 
from these therapies. Amgen’s Use of Human Samples and 
Data Committee is made up of leaders from our law, privacy, 
and compliance departments. It oversees the management of 
human samples and issues related to their ethical use. Samples 
are collected, used, stored, and disposed in accordance with 
the informed consent of the patient and all applicable laws and 
regulations, including those related to privacy and the use of 
human specimens in research. 
VALUE CREATION
Conducting our R&D activities in accordance with our 
internal policies as well as with external standards helps 
to ensure the integrity of and confidence in our trial results 
and, ultimately, in medicines approved for use. It also helps 
inspire confidence among potential clinical trial participants, 
increasing the likelihood of their enrollment in studies. 
Increasing the diversity of patients in our clinical trials 
helps us understand more about the safety and efficacy of 
treatments in all people, which helps us develop medicines 
that can benefit a broader population than ever before, while 
also building trust among new patient groups. In this way, 
our efforts in this area support growth and align with our 
mission to serve patients.27
10 Mihalcik, L; Chow, V; Ramchandani, M; Hinkle, B; McBride, H; Lebrec, H; Use of nonclinical 
toxicity studies to support biosimilar antibody develoment. Regul Toxicol Pharmacol, 
2021;122:104912.ETHICAL 
RESEARCHINTRODUCTIONACCESS TO 
MEDICINERESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGGOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSPERFORMANCE 
In 2020, Amgen continued to support a culture of high 
ethical values and transparency within its research 
practices. Key performance highlights are noted below. 
Voluntary Licensing
In 2020, Amgen entered into a voluntary licensing 
agreement with Medicines Development for Global Health 
(MDGH), a nonprofit biopharmaceutical company, for AMG 
634 for the treatment of tuberculosis and an inflammatory 
cutaneous and systemic complication of leprosy. Amgen 
out-licensed this compound after determining that Amgen 
would not move forward with its development but that the 
compound had potential benefits to global health that 
MDGH was well-positioned to advance. This compound is in 
Phase 2 development with studies led by the Aurum Institute 
NPC and The Leprosy Mission Nepal. Under the agreement, 
MDGH will assume full responsibility for further development 
and commercialization.
INCREASING DIVERSITY IN CLINICAL 
TRIALS FOR CANCER TREATMENTS
According to the FDA, for clinical trials in oncology, only 
5% of participants were Black – despite Black or African 
Americans accounting for 13% of the overall population in 
the United States.
“Cancer doesn’t discriminate,” notes Dana Dornsife, 
founder of the Lazarex Cancer Foundation, a nonprofit 
organization working to improve patient access to 
cancer clinical trials. “If the population of participants 
in clinical trials doesn’t mirror our actual population, 
then we’re not developing drugs for everyone. We have 
patients who are dying because they don’t have access 
to clinical trials, and we have clinical trials that are 
dying because they don’t have access to patients.” 
We couldn’t agree more. We are advancing an extensive 
pipeline of potential new therapies for difficult-to-treat 
cancers, and we want as diverse a range of patients as 
possible to have the opportunity to join us in the fight. 
That is why we’re a founding sponsor of Lazarex’s IMPACT  
(Improving Patient Access to Cancer Clinical Trials) 
program, which aims to increase enrollment and retention of cancer patients – especially minority populations 
– in clinical trials by expanding awareness of trial 
opportunities, alleviating financial barriers, and helping 
patients navigate the sometimes-cumbersome clinical 
trial process. With Amgen’s support, of the participants 
in IMPACT over the past three years, 59% self-identified 
as minorities and 48% reported household earnings 
of $25,000 per year or less. Our most recent grant to 
Lazarex at the end of 2020 supports the extension of 
IMPACT to new sites and the establishment of a cancer 
wellness HUB in Los Angeles.
We also know that four fifths of cancer patients in the 
United States are treated in community clinics. To 
give these patients – many of whom are from lower-
income backgrounds – more opportunity to participate 
in our clinical trials, we recently established the Amgen 
Community Oncology Research Collaborators program. 
This initiative will make it easier for community oncologists 
at more than 200 sites across the country to refer 
their patients for participation in studies of Amgen’s 
investigational cancer medicines. MORE INFORMATION
Global Code of Ethics for Clinical Trials
Amgen Clinical Trials28ETHICAL 
RESEARCHINTRODUCTIONACCESS TO 
MEDICINERESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGGOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSACCESS TO 
MEDICINE 29
ACCESS TO MEDICINEINTRODUCTIONRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGGOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHGOVERNANCE 
Amgen’s Access to Medicine approach is governed by the 
ESG Council, our cross-functional executive-level steering 
committee. In addition, a cross-functional program review 
committee regularly reviews our access programs to 
ensure their compliance with Amgen policies and local and 
national regulations.
AMBITION
Amgen’s medicines make a difference for those facing 
serious illnesses and we believe patients should have 
access to them. Together with partners and stakeholders, 
we are working to overcome access challenges and barriers 
through a multifaceted Access to Medicine approach 
tailored to the unique aspects of biologic medicines.
The Corporate Responsibility and Compliance Committee of 
our Board of Directors receives regular updates from senior 
leaders about our approach to drug pricing, access, and 
affordability, as well as on the activities of our Amgen Safety 
Net Foundation and our other philanthropic activities that 
expand access to our medicines worldwide. 
STRATEGY & OBJECTIVES 
Our approach to access begins years before a product is 
approved. During all stages of drug development, a cross-
functional team representing research, clinical development, 
commercial, medical affairs, and manufacturing works 
to define the potential new medicine’s target profile – the 
attributes we want to build into the medicine – to help ensure 
we develop well-differentiated, accessible therapies that 
address unmet patient needs for the countries in which 
we plan launch it. We also gather insights from external 
stakeholders to inform evidence needs for the global 
healthcare ecosystem. 
Once a medicine is approved, we use a variety of approaches 
to expand and evolve our efforts to increase access to our 
medicines globally and assist more patients. Our approach 
includes responsible pricing, patient-support programs and 
donations, and health systems strengthening. We implement our access to medicine strategy through the 
work of multiple functional teams including Global Value & 
Access; Corporate Affairs; Regulatory and Global Government 
Affairs & Policy; Advocacy, Value-Based Partnership team; 
Biosimilars product teams; Clinical Development, and our 
regional and local affiliate offices that collaborate with local 
stakeholders to implement programs.30ACCESS TO 
MEDICINEINTRODUCTIONRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGGOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHWe believe the price of a medicine 
should be based on the value it deliversWe employ flexible pricing approaches 
to ensure patient access
Benefits to 
patients & 
society
Reduced 
physical and 
emotional burdenShorter and fewer 
hospitalizationsFewer medical 
proceduresAbility to address 
diseases that 
pose a significant 
burdenA tailored approach to pricing that 
balances a country’s ability to pay 
for a medicine and the individual 
needs of patientsPrice of available comparator products 
or procedures in combination with the 
extent of the benefit Amgen’s treatment 
offers above and beyond current 
standard of careBenefits to 
the healthcare 
systems
EXAMPLES EXAMPLESBenefits to the 
economyNeeds of patients & 
local health systemsGeneral market 
dynamicsPRICING              PRINCIPLE PRICING              PRINCIPLE
Our prices take multiple factors into consideration Our prices take multiple factors into consideration
INCLUDING: INCLUDING:
1 2Our approach to pricing across the globe is   
underpinned by two core principles:
We believe the price of medicine should be based on 
the value it delivers. This includes the value to
•   Patients and society by enabling patients to live longer, 
better lives with their disease or condition than is currently 
possible (e.g., fewer symptoms and/or improved ability to 
perform daily activities).
•   Healthcare systems by decreasing the incidence of 
medical procedures (e.g., the need for bypass surgery 
or stent placement following a heart attack or stroke) 
and reducing long-term care needs (e.g., potentially 
preventing hip fractures associated with osteoporosis).
•   Economies by enabling patients to be more active and 
productive – at home and at work (e.g., by reducing the 
number of migraines).
We employ flexible pricing approaches to improve 
patient access that takes into account
•   The needs of patients and local health systems. We take 
a tailored approach to pricing that balances a country’s 
ability to pay and the individual needs of patients.
•   General market dynamics. This includes the price 
of available comparator products or procedures in 
comparison to the extent of the benefit Amgen’s treatment 
offers above and beyond the current standard of care.1
2Amgen understands that the cost of prescription medicines is a concern for many people. We are committed to the responsible 
pricing of our medicines by considering their economic and social value and the clinical and economic burden of diseases.PROGRAMMATIC HIGHLIGHTS
Our Approach to Responsible Pricing31ACCESS TO 
MEDICINEINTRODUCTIONRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGGOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHPatient Support Activities 
Through patient assistance programs, expanded access 
to investigational therapies, donations, and other initiatives, 
Amgen offers support to eligible patients around the world 
as they seek to obtain the medicines they need. 
The Amgen Safety Net Foundation supports qualifying 
patients in the United States who might go without important 
medicines because of financial barriers. In 2020, the 
commercial value of the Amgen medicines provided at no 
cost to uninsured or underinsured patients by ASNF was 
approximately $1.5 billion.11
Outside the United States, we have established financial 
patient support programs in 12 middle-income countries 
At Amgen, we have taken several 
steps to proactively offer solutions 
to address affordability issues for 
our patients. Since 2018, the average 
net price for Amgen medicines has 
declined. The average list-price 
increase across Amgen’s aggregate 
U.S. portfolio of products is in line 
with inflation and key pricing indices. designed to help clinically and financially eligible 
patients obtain the medicines they need while they await 
reimbursement. These programs limit patient out-of-pocket 
costs for treatment of multiple myeloma, giant cell tumor 
of the bone, homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, 
metastatic colorectal cancer, cancer-related bone 
complications, and acute lymphoblastic leukemia. In 
addition, we provide transportation assistance to medical 
appointments for mobility-impaired patients in several 
countries, including Brazil, Bulgaria, Colombia, Egypt, India, 
Mexico, Peru, Romania, South Africa, and Thailand.
As part of our strategy, we have also collaborated with the 
international nonprofit organization Direct Relief to reach 
patients through product donations in low- and middle-
income countries. In addition, we support compassionate 
use and expanded access to our investigational medicines 
for qualified patients around the globe.
Health Systems Strengthening
Beyond product affordability, patients around the world 
often face multiple barriers to accessing the care they need. 
Barriers range from lack of trained healthcare providers and 
equipment to carry out diagnostic testing, to lack of patient 
awareness of symptoms, to supply chain challenges to 
safely distribute, handle, and administer biologic medicines. 
Our approach to support the strengthening of health systems 
is to work with partners to build healthcare capabilities 
and strengthen healthcare infrastructure to enhance the delivery of care with the goal of improving patient outcomes. 
Programs include collaborations with providers, diagnostic 
companies, medical societies, digital technology companies, 
non-governmental organizations (NGOs), academia, and 
payers. By engaging with these partners, we are also 
working to co-create novel solutions to work to transform 
healthcare systems from reactive care to more proactive, 
predictive, and preventive care. In doing so, we are 
identifying mutually beneficial opportunities to reduce costs, 
improve care, and enhance patient experiences worldwide.
VALUE CREATION 
Providing access to our medicines is fundamental to 
Amgen’s mission. But it also is key to creating long-
term value for the Company. Working with partners, our 
Access to Medicine programs help share new ways to 
deliver medicines sustainably and help provide real-
world evidence of the cost-effectiveness of our therapies. 
In addition, programs in new countries, including low- 
and middle-income countries, help us learn about new 
business models and build trust with local government 
and regulatory officials.
PERFORMANCE
Throughout 2020, Amgen made continued progress to 
bring its medicines to more patients worldwide in innovative 
ways. On the following pages are examples of key 
programs we launched or supported.
11 Valued at wholesale acquisition cost32ACCESS TO 
MEDICINEINTRODUCTIONRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGGOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHPROVIDING ACCESS TO CARE FOR PEDIATRIC CANCER PATIENTS IN INDIASpotlight
B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL), a cancer 
that affects white blood cells, is the most common type of 
childhood cancer. Without treatment, this cancer is often 
fatal. One product designed to treat B-ALL is Amgen’s 
BLINCYTO® (blinatumomab). “Acute leukemia is a rapidly deadly cancer and 
BLINCYTO can be a game-changer for patients,” 
says Dr. Faraz Zaman, Global Medical Director at 
Amgen. “We knew we had a responsibility to find a 
sustainable way to provide BLINCYTO to children in 
low- and middle-income countries who do not have 
access to this cutting-edge immunotherapy.”
One of the biggest challenges was to help ensure 
that local physicians and hospital employees had the 
expertise to safely use this advanced biologic treatment, 
which requires complex intravenous administration.
To strengthen local expertise, Amgen turned to U.S.-
based St. Jude Children’s Hospital, a global leader in 
pediatric cancer care, and Direct Relief, a nonprofit 
organization with a strong record of supporting 
donations of other Amgen products. Together, the three organizations launched the BLINCYTO Humanitarian 
Access Program (BHAP) pilot in December 2020 with 
the first doses planned for India, followed in early 2021 in 
Pakistan. The program is planned to expand to Vietnam 
later in 2021. Under the program, carefully selected 
and qualified hospitals will receive BLINCYTO at no 
cost, together with training and ongoing support of safe 
administration and patient care.
According to Dr. Zaman, the medical training — 
conducted jointly by Amgen and St. Jude — will not 
only build the skills of the doctors and nurses to safely 
use BLINCYTO, but also strengthen the capabilities of 
hospitals in immunotherapy more generally. “The benefit 
will be much wider as hospitals and providers 
continue to gain experience and training in this 
critical field of immunotherapy in pediatric care.”33
ACCESS TO 
MEDICINEINTRODUCTIONRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGGOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHChampioning Global Health   
and Resilience 
In 2020, Amgen chaired The Global Initiative on Health and 
the Economy, a program based at the U.S. Chamber of 
Commerce that works to champion good health and good 
healthcare policies as a tool to advance economic growth 
and prosperity. In September, this program released a 
report with Victoria University, Melbourne, analyzing the 
economic and social returns of investing in specific disease 
areas to improve health outcomes in 27 countries. The 
findings demonstrated a powerful economic and social 
argument for investing more in noncommunicable disease 
prevention and treatment programs so that people can work 
more productively, thereby reducing social and economic 
exclusion, and improving the health resilience of populations.
Shining a Light on Health Disparities   
in the United States
Racial disparities in healthcare have existed throughout 
American history and a person’s skin color can still have a 
significant impact on the quality of care they receive. 
As part of Amgen’s commitment to understanding and 
working toward solutions to healthcare inequity, we hosted 
in October the fifth Amgen Health Equity Summit. Held 
virtually and led by Amgen’s CEO Bob Bradway, the event garnered its highest attendance to date with more than 350 
champions of health equity from diverse corners of the health 
ecosystem including leaders in health insurance, academia, 
medical research, and social justice. Together they shared 
insights and best practices for overcoming structural barriers 
to quality medical care among communities of color. Key 
themes of discussion from the summit included:
•   Industry Collaboration: It is critical to identify new 
partners with the ability to address social determinants of 
health, such as access to food, housing, transportation, 
and broadband internet. Organizations whose core 
competencies are disease-state education need to rely 
on diverse partners with the capabilities to address these 
broader issues.
•   Community Partnerships: Now more than ever, it is 
important to engage trusted and credible community 
members to deliver public health messages in a manner 
that speaks to – and is respectful toward – diverse 
ethnic groups. It is essential to work to ensure that 
collaboration and mutuality are woven into the fabric of 
how engagements are structured and executed. 
•   Commitment: Achieving true health equity will be a 
journey of a thousand steps, and the commitment must be 
sustained over time. Incremental measurement of efforts 
will be critical to work to the accomplishment of goals. •   Mistrust: Mistrust in the healthcare system has deep 
roots, deriving from centuries of abuse, neglect, and 
biases. Trust cannot be built if these abuses remain 
unacknowledged. 
•   Action: It is time to take action for change. Advocates 
must work together toward quality, affordable, accessible, 
and culturally competent healthcare.
Amgen also seeks to address disparities at the therapeutic 
level. One example is multiple myeloma, a rare type of 
blood cancer that scientists and doctors are still trying 
to fully understand. One thing they do observe is that it 
disproportionately affects Black Americans, who have 
more than double the risk of developing the disease. Black 
Americans with multiple myeloma are often diagnosed later, 
when the cancer is harder to treat. They are also more likely 
to lack access to a full range of treatment options and to have 
worse outcomes.
To work to address this, Amgen created an informational 
website exclusively dedicated to Black patients with multiple 
myeloma: Multiple Myeloma It’s On. To better ensure that the 
website included relevant information and the images and 
messages would resonate with Black Americans, the creative 
team collaborated and co-created the website’s content with 
the Amgen Black Employees Network. In 2020, the team’s 
efforts and vision led to a bronze award in the Multicultural 
category of the 2019 Pharma Choice Awards. 34ACCESS TO 
MEDICINEINTRODUCTIONRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGGOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHDonations in 2020During 2020, Amgen donated nearly 830,000 units of medicine through Direct Relief, with a value of approximately $70 
million (wholesale acquisition cost) to serve patients in 29 low- and middle-income countries – nearly double the number of 
countries versus 2019. We also more than doubled the number of products we donate, from three to seven.Building Pathways for Precision 
Medicine in Mexico
In Mexico, non-small cell lung cancer is one of the leading 
causes of death. But this disease is being tackled thanks 
to medical advances, including more-effective targeted 
therapeutics and testing that allow physicians to make better 
decisions for their patients. However, a challenge is that 
doctors must use multiple separate tests, each requiring a 
biopsy procedure, to determine which medicine might be most 
effective for a patient. This not only increases testing costs and 
time, it also increases the burden and discomfort on patients.
In 2020, Amgen joined with five other biopharmaceutical 
companies and the National Institute of Cancer in Mexico 
to develop a single biomarker testing program to address 
this challenge. Coordinated by the Mexican Association of 
Pharmaceutical Industries (AMIIF), companies provided 
testing panels to allow physicians to test for five biomarkers 
with a single biopsy. As part of the program, Amgen provided 
the panel for the KRASG12C biomarker, a genetic mutation that 
occurs in about 13% of non-small cell lung cancers. 
The program, which hopes to reach 400 patients in 2021 
with free testing, is intended for people who do not have the 
resources to pay for biomarker testing. In addition to helping 
improve patient care, this program is collecting biomarker 
incidence data in a national data management system 
with the goal of creating real-world evidence to help inform 
treatment decisions in Mexico moving forward.35
Expanding Product Donations to More Products and More Patients ACCESS TO 
MEDICINEINTRODUCTIONRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGGOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCH36
$.25B$.5B$.75B$1.0B$1.25B$1.5B
2020$1.5B*
2019$1.4B*
2018$1.2B*
$10M$20M$40M$60M$80M
2020$67M*
2018**$69M*
In 2020, Amgen-donated
medicines reached patients in
low- and middle-income 
countries
Value of medicines provided at no cost to low-income patients in 
the United States through the Amgen Safety Net FoundationValue of medicines provided at no cost in low- and 
middle-income countries through Direct Relief2020 Performance Data
*   Valued at wholesale acquisition cost.
** Amgen provided its first donation to Direct Relief in late 2018, followed by a second donation in 2020. During 2019, Direct Relief worked with local teams and government authorities 
to distribute the medicines at no cost to healthcare professionals in designated low- and middle-income countries for patients in need. ACCESS TO 
MEDICINEINTRODUCTIONRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGGOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGING 37
DIVERSITY, INCLUSION, AND BELONGINGINTRODUCTIONRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYGOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINEGOVERNANCE 
The Company’s executive Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging 
(DI&B) Council, chaired by our CEO and consisting of 
his direct reports, meets quarterly to review action plans 
and progress. The council shares results with our Board 
of Directors. Amgen’s Executive Vice President of Human 
Resources is responsible for the execution of the DI&B 
program and is a member of the ESG Council. Amgen’s 
Executive Director of DI&B has day-to-day oversight of 
issues related to diversity and inclusion. STRATEGY & OBJECTIVES 
Within Amgen, we are working to create an environment 
where all employees feel welcome and are given the 
opportunity to achieve their full potential. We are also 
committed to finding ways that we can help build a more just 
and equitable society outside of Amgen.
With endorsement from executive management and 
engagement with senior leaders across the organization, 
Amgen introduced a new global DI&B strategy in 2020 
designed to leverage our diversity and create a more 
inclusive workplace.
Strategic areas of focus include:
•   People: Recruit, develop, and retain a diverse workforce 
representative of the global communities we serve
•   Culture: Create a welcoming, inclusive, and 
productive environment where all employees feel 
welcomed and respected
•   Community: Expand external efforts to promote justice 
and equity for our patients and society
•   Sustain: Embed DI&B in business practices, policies, 
and processes to establish ongoing leadership and 
accountability
AMBITION
We are focused on fostering a culture of belonging, where 
diversity is celebrated, and inclusion is the norm.38
BUILDING A DIVERSE 
WORKFORCE: OUR 
PRIORITIES 
•   Increase the representation and development of 
women in executive director and above roles 
•   Increase the representation of Blacks in science, 
technology, engineering and mathematics based roles
•   Increase the representation and development of Blacks 
and Hispanics in executive director and above rolesGLOBAL
UNITED STATES
PROGRAMMATIC 
HIGHLIGHTS
Recruiting Diverse Talent
We strive to increase our attraction and talent-sourcing 
capabilities to better engage and develop diverse talent 
at the executive, professional, and early career levels. Our 
strategy includes working with organizations such as the 
National Black MBA Association, National Sales Network, 
Healthcare Businesswomen’s Association, Society of Women 
DIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGINTRODUCTIONRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYGOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINEEngineers, National Organization of Gay & Lesbian Scientists 
and Technical Professionals, as well as historically Black 
colleges and universities (HBCUs) to reach qualified diverse 
candidates. Amgen serves on the Board of Advisors for 
Howard University’s Center for Excellence in Supply Chain 
Management, where we provide program guidance, conduct 
student interviews, and provide summer intern and job 
placements for supply chain management students.
We are also working to expand STEM education to more 
students of color through the Amgen Foundation. The Foundation 
works with high schools, HBCUs, and other universities 
through programs such as LabXchange, the Amgen 
Scholars Program, and the Amgen Biotech Experience, and 
by collaborating with Khan Academy (see pages 61-62).
Developing Diverse Talent
Within our workforce, we support the development of diverse 
talent through several initiatives, including a formal 1:1 
executive mentoring program, function-specific leadership 
development programs, and peer mentoring networks through 
our ten Employee Resource Groups (ERGs). For example, 
more than 700 women have been mentored through our 
Women Empowered to Be Exceptional (WE2) ERG peer 
mentoring program since it was established four years ago. 
WE2 started in 2003 with the mission to empower the Amgen community of women to deliver exceptional results. Since its 
inception, WE2 has grown to be Amgen’s largest ERG with 
16 chapters and over 4,000 members globally. This ERG 
aims to be a keystone for supporting Amgen as the best 
place for talent and drive business performance by bending 
the curve on gender diversity.
Our ERGs are each sponsored by an executive champion 
and organized around diversity attributes that promote 
employee development, professional growth, and 
inspiration. Globally, there are more than 40 chapters of 
Amgen ERGs. They also provide cultural perspectives 
that support our business. For example, the Amgen Black 
Employee Network collaborated and co-created with our 
Oncology team a multicultural award-winning campaign for 
multiple myeloma (see page 34) and is helping address the 
lack of diversity in clinical trials (see page 26).
VALUE CREATION 
We believe that an environment of diversity, inclusion, 
and belonging fosters innovation, strengthens our global 
workforce, and drives our ability to serve patients. Our 
global presence is strengthened by having a workforce 
that reflects the diversity of the patients we serve and 
by maintaining an environment in which such diversity 
contributes to our mission.Feeling Shocked, Saddened,    
and Outraged 
Following the killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Amgen 
CEO Bob Bradway shared his concerns and thoughts with 
our employees. “If this were an isolated event, it still would 
be unacceptable,” he said. “But it is not an isolated event. 
It is part of a pattern that has become tragically clear in 
the U.S. and around the world. Equal justice and equal 
opportunity may be our ideals, but they are not yet our 
reality.” He went on to say, “This is not a time for silence. 
This is a time for us to work together for progress. Let’s 
start taking some steps.”
One of the first steps we took was to ask Black Amgen 
employees to share their personal experiences with racism 
to illuminate, educate, and open our collective eyes to the 
existence of two worlds, where two sets of freedoms exist, 
and two different sets of rules apply based on the color 
of your skin. Sadly, there was no shortage of stories. We 
started out with a plan to conduct just a few interviews, 
but the stories kept coming — so we kept listening. In all, 
we shared 20 of the stories we heard from Black Amgen 
employees with all of our employees.39DIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGINTRODUCTIONRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYGOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINE“I always think about my presence in places. There’s a self-awareness you 
develop. During the lockdown, with all the gyms closed, I would go for a 
30-minute walk, and as I walk through certain neighborhoods, I can’t stop to 
admire some of the homes because if I slow down, I’m aware that a call might 
be made that there’s a Black guy casing the houses.” “In corporate America, there is a certain image that was predominant [when 
I started working]. You didn’t see African Americans in the industry for years 
after I started, and you definitely didn’t see Black women wearing their hair in its 
natural state. I could never wear African attire at work – that would be considered 
unprofessional. But it’s also who I am and a part of my history.” Errol Kilgore Mia Gassi-HelmSpotlight
AMGEN EMPLOYEES SHARE THEIR EXPERIENCES WITH RACISM
40DIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGINTRODUCTIONRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYGOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINEResponding to Violence Against  
Asian Americans 
In light of a wave of hate crimes against Asian Americans 
our Amgen Asian American ERG met with Amgen leaders 
in March 2021 to share personal stories of hate-related 
incidents and long-standing concerns in their communities. 
PERFORMANCE 
In 2020, we made progress toward our DI&B areas of 
focus, but also experienced tragic reminders of the 
significant work that remains.
People 
In 2020, Amgen became a founding member of OneTen, 
a coalition of more than 40 of the world’s largest 
companies. This coalition aims to hire 1 million Black 
Americans into family-sustaining jobs over the next 10 
years. This initiative is an opportunity to take a skill-
based approach to certain jobs to address some of the 
systemic barriers that Black Americans face. Participating 
companies in the coalition have committed to developing 
a workforce system that improves hiring, retention, and 
advancement practices that support diverse talent. We 
also began working with a new recruitment partner to 
help us reach a more diverse pool of talent.Within Amgen, we designated executive champions 
to lead DI&B within our R&D, Operations, Corporate, 
and Global Commercial Operations functions. Each 
is charged with helping to integrate DI&B into their 
operations ecosystems to improve performance, 
innovation, and problem-solving.
Culture 
We introduced Managing Unconscious Bias, a required 
online training course for employees in the United States, 
Puerto Rico, and Canada. The course was completed by 
100% of employees, with 90% of participants providing a 
favorable response when asked whether it increased their 
understanding of how to mitigate unconscious bias. We also 
introduced an in-depth self-paced training course focused 
on defining and promoting behaviors that create an inclusive 
culture. For our human resource business partners, we 
provided additional training to help them work with teams 
throughout Amgen to better guard against bias in the 
performance review process. 
In 2020, we conducted a DI&B survey of all employees 
globally. Eighty-six percent of the more than 10,000 
employees who responded agreed that they “work in an 
environment that is free from harassment and discrimination,” 
while 85% said they are “treated with respect and dignity.” 
Seventy-nine percent said they “feel a sense of belonging at 
Amgen.” All three scores are well above global benchmarks. To create an ongoing channel for DI&B-focused 
communications with employees, we launched a web portal 
that includes upcoming DI&B events, our priorities, and 
resources. It also links employees to Amgen’s DI&B internal 
Yammer Group, where they can share stories, engage in 
conversations, and identify best practices. 
In early 2020, the leadership of Amgen ERGs from around 
the world came together for a virtual global summit to identify 
opportunities to maximize their collective effectiveness in 
advancing Amgen’s DI&B cultural aspirations. Our global ERG 
leadership team continues to meet bimonthly to share best 
practices, discuss opportunities to support DI&B strategies, 
and help drive deeper employee engagement. 
Suppliers
There have been renewed efforts to explore how the Company 
might better integrate with diverse communities when it comes 
to serious illness – and how it can also bolster Amgen’s supplier 
diversity efforts. In 2020, representatives from Newground 
Social Investment, as an investor in Amgen, approached 
Amgen to discuss its activity in the area of racial equity, and 
those conversations turned to the Company’s aspirations 
for its supplier diversity program, including how it relates to 
Black-owned businesses. As part of these discussions, the 
Company was inspired to establish new aspirations for supplier 
diversity and for its support of Black-owned businesses – and 
to establish goals around these areas for 2021. For more 
information on these goals, see page 57.41DIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGINTRODUCTIONRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYGOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINECommunity
In the wake of civil protests, the Amgen Foundation pledged 
to provide $7.5 million in grants to support social justice 
and equal opportunity to national organizations, local 
organizations in U.S. communities where Amgen operates, 
and science education partnerships that reach communities 
of color. From the funding, the Foundation provided an 
immediate $2.25 million to four national organizations: the 
NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, the Equal 
Justice Initiative, Race Forward, and Echoing Green.  
The remaining funds were deployed as follows: 
•   Partnering with local leaders in U.S. communities where 
Amgen has a significant presence to distribute grants 
that empower local and diverse team members to build 
a more just and equal society. In December 2020, 
Amgen held a virtual forum with community leaders in 
California to discuss the impact the grant funding could 
have on their stakeholders in underserved and financially 
stressed communities.
•   Expanding efforts in science education to reach even 
more students of color. For example, the Amgen 
Foundation is seeking partnerships with HBCUs to 
increase the reach of programs such as LabXchange and 
Khan Academy, free online science education platforms, 
and the Amgen Biotech Experience, which empowers 
teachers to bring biotechnology into their classrooms.•   Establishing a month-long program in which donations by 
any Amgen employee globally were matched 2:1 to a set of 
organizations addressing social justice and equal opportunity, 
and the COVID-19 pandemic. Eligible organizations include 
NAACP, NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, 
Race Forward, Southern Poverty Law Center, National Urban 
League, Equal Justice Initiative, and Echoing Green. Total 
contributions (from employees and the Foundation) to these 
organizations totaled more than $270,000.42DIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGINTRODUCTIONRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYGOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINEMORE INFORMATION 
Amgen’s Commitment to Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging43
2020 DI&B Data12
100%
80%
60%
40%
20% 52 %47%Management level13
42%Executive level14
Women
in total 
workforce
12 Data as of December 2020. To align with U.S. government reporting requirements, data in this 
document uses the traditional gender categories of male and female. We deeply respect that 
gender is not binary; reporting in this manner should not represent our position on the issue. 
Totals may not add up to 100% due to rounding or employees who have not reported their 
gender and/or race/ethnicity.
13 Management:  Senior managers and directors.
14 Executive level: Executive directors and above.
15 Other: American Indian/Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander, two or more races, 
or not specified.80%
60%
40%
20% 48 %
Ethnic 
minority in 
the workforce
(U.S./P .R.)
42%Management level13
30%Executive level1480%
60%
40%
20% 48 %
Ethnic 
minority in 
the workforce
(U.S./P .R.)
19%Asian
4%Other1524%Hispanic/ Latino
3%Black/
African 
American100% 100%
Although we do not use our Federal Employer Information 
Report EEO-1 to measure progress, we make our most 
recent filing publicly available.  For more information 
around the composition of our workforce, please go to our 
2020 Workforce Diversity Report.DIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGINTRODUCTIONRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIXENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYGOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINEENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITY 44
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITYINTRODUCTIONRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIX GOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINEDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGGOVERNANCE 
Our Environment, Health, Safety, and Sustainability (EHSS) 
function seeks to deliver world-class EHSS solutions that 
safeguard our people, our patients, and our communities. 
Using an enterprise-wide EHSS management system, we 
evaluate and mitigate EHSS risk; carry out documentation 
and training; collect, respond to, and analyze incident 
reports; measure performance; and review trends to 
determine areas for improvement. 
Amgen’s Vice President of Engineering has overall 
responsibility for our environmental sustainability strategy. 
EHSS employees collaborate with our Manufacturing, Global 
Commercial Operations, and Research and Development 
functions to develop programs and monitor progress 
toward environmental sustainability targets. Updates on the progress toward targets by functions are provided directly to 
the EHSS Executive Director. The Corporate Responsibility 
and Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors is 
updated at least annually on our progress in this area. Our 
CEO and senior leadership team have overall responsibility 
for Amgen activities related to climate change.
STRATEGY & OBJECTIVES  
As a science-based company working to advance human health, 
Amgen recognizes the impact that climate change is having 
on human health around the world. We have a long-standing 
ambition and commitment to environmentally responsible 
operations and seek to improve sustainability throughout 
the life cycle of our products, including in their research, 
development, manufacturing, packaging, and disposal. Building on the successful execution of our seven-year targets 
concluded in 2020, we announced in January 2021 the 
launch of a new seven-year environmental sustainability plan 
(our third since 2007), which we call “The Road to Net Zero.” 
Our 2027 plan includes the following new commitments:^
In developing our 2027 commitments, we used a science-
based16 approach that we will continue to follow to measure 
and verify our progress. Our 2027 plan also further integrates 
potential effects of climate change into our processes 
for strategic planning, analysis, and risk management. 
We continue to evaluate how we can improve reporting 
of climate-related risks consistent with the Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework.45
AMBITION
We are dedicated to practices that strengthen our business 
while reducing our environmental impact.
Achieve carbon neutrality for Amgen-owned 
and -operated facilities and operations^
Reduce         waste disposed byReduce water use by
75 %^40%^
^ Reductions take into account only verified reduction projections, and do not take into 
account changes associated with the contraction or expansion of the company.
16 A carbon emissions target is defined as science-based if it is in line with the scale of 
reductions required to keep global temperature increase well below 2°C above pre-
industrial temperatures.
ENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYINTRODUCTIONRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIX GOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINEDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGTo further embed our new commitments from our 2027 
plan into our operations, we are requiring all projects 
requesting corporate capital funds to consider environmental 
sustainability in project design, development, and execution. 
We will also begin to include environmental footprint analysis 
in capital projects to help ensure that energy efficiency, 
water efficiency, and waste reduction are integral parts of 
project delivery.
At all Amgen sites that have manufacturing, research, or 
development activities that could affect the environment, 
we require that employees who manage hazardous 
materials and waste and monitor environmental discharges 
and emissions receive training to properly perform these 
responsibilities.
We conduct EHSS audits within our business to work to 
ensure that noncompliant conditions and inappropriate 
risks are promptly addressed. Amgen also uses a third 
party to conduct sustainability assessments of our 
suppliers’ performance in compliance with our Supplier 
Code of Conduct. Through these assessments, we gain 
an understanding of the maturity of our suppliers’ ethical, 
environmental, and social governance programs. These 
assessments have led to dialogues and the identification 
of opportunities for suppliers to develop plans to enhance 
their programs.46
ENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYINTRODUCTIONRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIX GOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINEDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGSaved an Estimated 
930,000 kWh
From 2018 to 2020Reduced
Water Usage by
4,300 m3
In 202047
RECOGNIZING AN ENVIRONMENTAL CHAMPION
Amgen encourages employees to identify opportunities 
and provide guidance to improve sustainability. Ideas are 
actively solicited, projects are monitored, and employees 
are recognized and rewarded for their efforts through 
initiatives such as Amgen’s annual Global Environmental 
Champions awards.
In 2021, Ken Chong, Senior Engineer at our 
manufacturing facility in Singapore, was named a Global 
Environmental Champion. As the site’s certified energy 
manager, Ken tracks energy usage and carbon dioxide 
emissions. He developed a multiyear strategy to reduce 
the amount of energy that the site consumes, rolling out such projects as solar photovoltaic street lights, 
installation of LED lighting in buildings, chilled water 
pump optimization, glycol chiller operation optimization, 
and HVAC optimization within offices. Thanks to his 
leadership, the site saved an estimated 930,000 kWh 
from 2018 to 2020. He has also championed projects to 
make the site more water efficient, reducing its estimated 
water usage in 2020 by 4300 m3.
“Amgen is part of the community in Singapore,”  
Ken says. “We have a responsibility to further reduce 
our environmental impact and use of resources. 
All it takes is innovative thinking, persistence and 
teamwork. It’s great to see what can be accomplished, 
with more improvements on the way.”Ken Chong,
Senior Engineer, Singapore
Spotlight
ENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYINTRODUCTIONRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIX GOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINEDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGPROGRAMMATIC 
HIGHLIGHTS
Amgen’s Approach to Carbon Neutrality 
Our carbon neutrality target applies to Amgen-owned and 
-operated facilities and operations. It is based on a three-
pronged approach focused on innovation, efficiency, and 
renewable energy.
•   Innovation: Reducing the amount of energy (carbon) 
required to develop and produce our medicines is 
the best way to eliminate carbon and prevent climate 
change. Through innovative manufacturing technologies, 
we have reduced ongoing carbon by 69%^ and 
water use by 54%,^ as compared to conventional 
biotechnology manufacturing.
•   Efficiency: We will embed sustainability-by-design into 
our facilities to maximize their operational efficiency. 
We plan to convert 30% of our fleet vehicles to all-
electric vehicles by 2027. Vehicle selection will be 
prioritized to maximize emission reductions based on 
sales representatives’ territory and the availability of 
low-carbon-emitting electrical grid power. We are also 
installing EV charging stations at our sites.
•   Renewable Energy: We are striving for 100% renewable 
electricity use at all of our operations where feasible 
by 2027, resulting in a ~50%^ reduction in our carbon 
emissions from operations.17 Across our network, each facility has a portfolio of renewable energy projects that 
are a part of our long-range planning. Projects range 
from installing innovative renewable energy technologies, 
such as on-site solar arrays, to purchasing electricity 
from renewable sources. Where renewable sources are 
not available, we will evaluate options for the purchase of 
carbon offsets and prioritize offsetting based on the quality 
of the credit/offset. Separately, we will evaluate the carbon 
impact from our value chain – including suppliers, contract 
manufacturers, and distributors, and identify reduction 
opportunities. For more information, see page 56.
Water
We plan to achieve our water reduction target of 40%^ 
by focusing our efforts on areas of water stress and 
emphasizing water treatment and recycling.
Most of the water we use – 99% – comes from municipal 
sources. Only 1% comes directly from groundwater. In 
addition, we work to maximize the amount of water recovered 
for recycling or reuse. For example, our facility in Puerto Rico 
features a water treatment and recycling plant that processes 
wastewater to a standard above potable levels. 
Amgen is committed to compliance with applicable 
environmental regulations, including local wastewater 
agreements that regulate the amounts and types of materials that 
can be discharged in wastewater. To support this commitment, 
we routinely perform internal audits at our manufacturing, 
R&D, and distribution facilities.Waste 
We plan to achieve our 75%^ waste reduction target, in part, 
by reducing single-use plastics and achieving zero waste 
where feasible. To date, three Amgen sites have achieved 
zero-waste-to-landfill status. 
Pharmaceuticals in the Environment 
Amgen is committed to studying the impacts of 
pharmaceuticals in the environment (PIE) as a routine part 
of assessing the life cycle and environmental footprint 
of our products. We collaborate with colleagues in the 
American Chemical Society, the Society for Environmental 
Toxicology & Chemistry, the Society for Risk Analysis, the 
Society of Toxicology, as well as with industry peers to 
study the issues and examine methods to better identify and 
quantify environmental risks of pharmaceutical products. 
We also offer product take-back programs to help patients 
responsibly dispose of their used, unused, or expired 
combination products or medicines.
In 2020, we published a formal statement on our approach to 
PIE on our website. 48
17 Operations are defined as emissions from combustion in owned/operated equipment 
and emissions from purchased energy. 
^ Reductions take into account only verified reduction projections, and do not take into 
account changes associated with the contraction or expansion of the company.ENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYINTRODUCTIONRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIX GOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINEDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGSustainable Packaging 
Amgen’s packaging sustainability strategy is fully integrated 
into our business processes. A key element is our green 
packaging metrics tool, which we use to establish a 
sustainability score when redesigning or creating new 
packaging for our products and to identify opportunities to 
develop more environmentally friendly packaging. We use 
fully recyclable paperboard from certified sustainable forests 
in the packaging for all Amgen products. 
VALUE CREATION 
Our investment in environmental sustainability not only 
reduces our impact on the planet but is also helping us to 
become more efficient and productive, resulting in reduced 
operating costs. Our ~$50 million investment from 2008 
to 2020 resulted in savings of ~$250 million in operating 
costs over the same period. In addition, recognizing that 
the effects of climate change can be disruptive to business, 
doing our part to decrease carbon emissions helps to 
reduce the risks of climate-related events in the long term.
PERFORMANCE 
We measure and report on our overall carbon, energy, 
water, waste, and sales fleet fuel efficiency performance. 
We include data gathered from 17 manufacturing, R&D, 
and distribution facilities located in North America, South 
America, Asia, and Europe, representing (based on square 
footage) approximately 88% of our operations. For the 
remaining 12% of square footage, primarily administrative offices, we estimate the energy usage to calculate carbon 
emissions. We measure progress toward our targets by 
quantifying results independent of growth or contraction of 
our business. We do not include facility or building closures 
or recently acquired facilities in our target progress. Our 
2020 environmental data have undergone limited assurance 
by Apex Companies, LLC. Highlights of our environmental 
performance are presented below; more detailed data can 
be found here.
Since 2007, we combined innovation with greater efficiency to:
Other Reports
You can find our most recent CDP reports for Climate Change 
and Water here. Both reports provide additional details about 
Amgen’s governance, strategy, risk management, metrics, 
and targets related to climate change and water.
In 2018, two years ahead of schedule, we met most of our 
2020 targets, and all were surpassed by 2020.49
Reduce carbon by
Reduce water use by
Reduce waste disposed of by33 %^
30%^
28 %^
^ Reductions take into account only verified reduction projections, and do not take into 
account changes associated with the contraction or expansion of the company.Final Results
100%,
2020 
Target120%140%
2012 
Baseline80%
60%
40%
20%128%
Facility 
Carbon
Reduce 38,500 
metric tons (MT) 
of facility carbon 
10% of 2012 
baseline Waste
Reduce 1,490 
metric tons (MT) 
of waste to 
landfill or 
incineration 35%  
of 2012 baselineWater
Reduce 
269,000 cubic 
meters (m3) 
10% of 2012 
baselineFleet 
Carbon
Reduce 3,000 
metric tons (MT) 
of fleet carbon 
20% of 2012 
baseline49,400 MT
106%
1,574 MT108%
291,000 m3110%
3,300 MTPerformance Against 
2020 Targets^ENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYINTRODUCTIONRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIX GOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINEDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGCarbon
Our carbon emissions from onsite combustion of fuel and 
purchased energy in 2020 decreased from 2019 by 21,000 
metric tons (MT). Our carbon reduction projects in 2020 
resulted in 5,900 MT of annual carbon emission reductions 
to achieve a total of 139,000 MT, or 33%, since 2007, and 
saved more than $35 million in operating costs annually. 
We are currently evaluating our Scope 3 impacts to identify 
opportunities to further engage and reduce.^50
Facility Car bon Emissions and Facility Carbon Emissions Reduced Through Conservation Efforts (1,000 MT ) 2020 Facility Carbon Emissions by Source (1,000 MT)Scope 1 source s
Scope 2 source s
* Value represents year-over-year  
cumulative and continuing avoidance.500
400
300
200
10038584
2012363848
2013416
2007Facility carbon emissions 
avoided* 2013 through 2019Facility carbon emissions 
avoided* in 2020
Facility carbon emissionsFacility carbon emissions 
avoided* from 2007 
through 2012DieselNatural gas
SteamElectricityPropane6
8449
243
20208449
249
20198442
263
20188434
278
20178420
291
20168414
369
20158410
354
20140.1
53
136 54
0.1
^ Reductions take into account only verified reduction projections, and do not take into 
account changes associated with the contraction or expansion of the company.ENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYINTRODUCTIONRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIX GOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINEDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGING2020 Facility Energy Use by Source (1,000 GJ )Direct source s
Indirect source sDieselNatural gas
RenewablesFossil fuel
NonspecifiedNuclearPropane1,037
773566
7987
1103Energy
In 2020, our total renewable energy use was 41% of our 
electricity consumption. Our sites in Ireland, the Netherlands, 
and Singapore procure 100% renewable energy, and our 
San Francisco facility procures 89% renewable energy.51
In 2020, we expanded our Smart and Integrated Facility Utility Monitoring Program, 
which assessed existing automation and monitoring systems and delivered a 
prioritized list of opportunities for improvements at targeted manufacturing and 
research facilities at six Amgen sites. Opportunities identified in 2020 resulted in 
conservation of 12,300 gigajoules (GJ) of energy and reduction of 1,300 MT of carbon. 
Since implementation in 2016, this program has resulted in savings of 243,000 GJ, 
15,700 MT carbon and approximately $4.2 million^ in operating costs.INCREASING ENERGY EFFICIENCY AT OUR FACILITIES 
^ Reductions take into account only verified reduction projections, and do not take into 
account changes associated with the contraction or expansion of the company.ENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYINTRODUCTIONRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIX GOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINEDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGWater
Our total water usage in 2020 increased from 2019 by 
209,000 cubic meters (CM). Water usage increases are 
the result of manufacturing increases and equipment 
commissioning. Despite increased water usage in 2020, 
we have reduced annual water usage through projects 
eliminating 981,000 CM, or 30%, since 2007.^
In 2020, Amgen recycled or reused 567,000 CM of water, 
representing 24% of our total water withdrawal.^52
Water Intake and Intake Avoided Through Conservation Ef forts (1,000 CM )* Value represents year-over-year 
cumulative and continuing avoidance.3,500
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
5002,720686
20122,72568619
20133,286
2007Water emissions avoided* 
2013 through 2019Water intake avoided* 
in 2020
Water intakeWater intake avoided* 
from 2007 through 20122915
84686
2,355
2020686291
2,146
2019686278
2,093
2018686266
2,320
2017686203
2,351
2016686142
2,520
201568636
2,487
2014
^ Reductions take into account only verified reduction projections, and do not take into 
account changes associated with the contraction or expansion of the company.ENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYINTRODUCTIONRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIX GOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINEDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGWaste
In 2020, our total waste generation increased by 23 MT 
compared with 2019. Mitigating a larger increase, waste 
reduction projects implemented in 2020 resulted in an 
additional 181 MT of annual waste reduction. Since 
2007, we have reduced annual waste generation through 
projects eliminating 2,849 MT, or 28%.^
In 2020, we continued to recycle plastics used in labs and 
manufacturing facilities. Through these efforts, we diverted 
over 1,000 MT of plastics from landfill and repurposed 
them for industrial uses, including benches at our sites. 
We also continued to implement reusable shippers for 
90% of our clinical shipments, reducing solid waste by 
98%* compared to using disposable shippers. We have 
expanded the program to include commercial shipments 
of our medicines.53
Routine Waste Generated and Waste Reduced Through Conservation (MT)* Value represents year-over-year 
cumulative and continuing avoidance.14,000
12,000
10,000
8,000
6,000
4,000
2,0009,0181,094
20128,7801,094320
201310,146
2007Waste reduction* from  
2013 through 2019Waste reduction* 
 in 2020
Routine waste*Waste reduction*  
from 2007 through 2012
Recycle rate (%)*1,574181
841,094
9,841
20201,0941,574
9,818
20191,0941,297
9,642
20181,0941,038
9,856
20171,094850
10,330
20161,094688
10,054
20151,094441
8,929
2014100% 80%6 0% 40%2 0%35535351 50 49 48 4852 52
^ Reductions take into account only verified reduction projections, and do not take into 
account changes associated with the contraction or expansion of the company.Routine Waste by Wa ste Hierarchy (MT)100%
80%
60%
40%
20%3,3344,762
9231,094
20123,2804,493
1,0061,094320
20135,7963,542
807
2007* Value represents year-over-year 
cumulative and continuing avoidanceRecycled, composted, 
and reused*Waste reduced from 
2007 through 2012*Waste reduced from 
2013 through 2019*Waste reduced in 2020*
Landfill and incineration 
without energy recovery*Incineration with 
energy recovery*
3,1635,150
1,5281,0941,574181
20203,4904,746
1,5821,0941,574
20193,6184,625
1,3981,0941,297
20183,5654,790
1,5011,0941,038
20173,3695,517
1,4451,094850
20163,6725,235
1,1471,094688
20153,4384,501
9921,094441
2014ENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYINTRODUCTIONRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIX GOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINEDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGING54
AMGEN’S NEXT-GENERATION BIOMANUFACTURING 
COMPARED TO CONVENTIONAL MANUFACTURINGSpotlight
and vastly reduces water and energy use, while 
maintaining a reliable, high-quality, compliant 
supply of medicines. The success of our facility in 
Singapore led to our building a second such plant 
in Rhode Island. Our biomanufacturing facility in Singapore, which 
began commercial production in 2017, is an example 
of our innovative capability at work. This redesign 
of our approach to biomanufacturing dramatically 
reduces the scale and costs of making biologics 
MORE INFORMATION
Product Sustainability
Green Buildings14of the 
capita l cost the construction timeof the
operating expenseReduced solid waste 
and usage of chemicals 76%reduction in 
CO 2 emissions^ energy
reduction^78% water
reduction^58%14of the 
capita l cost the construction timeof the
operating expenseReduced solid waste 
and usage of chemicals 76%reduction in 
CO 2 emissions^ energy
reduction^78% water
reduction^58%
14of the 
capita l cost the construction timeof the
operating expenseReduced solid waste 
and usage of chemicals 76%reduction in 
CO 2 emissions^ energy
reduction^78% water
reduction^58%
14of the 
capita l cost the construction timeof the
operating expenseReduced solid waste 
and usage of chemicals 76%reduction in 
CO 2 emissions^ energy
reduction^78% water
reduction^58%14of the 
capita l cost the construction timeof the
operating expenseReduced solid waste 
and usage of chemicals 76%reduction in 
CO 2 emissions^ energy
reduction^78% water
reduction^58% 14of the 
capita l cost the construction timeof the
operating expenseReduced solid waste 
and usage of chemicals 76%reduction in 
CO 2 emissions^ energy
reduction^78% water
reduction^58%
14of the 
capita l cost the construction timeof the
operating expenseReduced solid waste 
and usage of chemicals 76%reduction in 
CO 2 emissions^ energy
reduction^78% water
reduction^58%
18 As of September 30, 2020
^ Reductions take into account only verified reduction projections, and do not take into 
account changes associated with the contraction or expansion of the company.Achieved in Singapore18ENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYINTRODUCTIONRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIX GOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINEDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCING 55
RESPONSIBLE SOURCINGINTRODUCTIONCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIX GOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINEDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYGOVERNANCE 
Amgen’s Responsible Sourcing program has two 
components: Supplier Sustainability and Supplier Diversity. 
Both components are managed by our Global Business 
Solutions team. The leader for Responsible Sourcing is a 
member of the ESG Working Committee and accountable 
to the ESG Council. We share progress on our Responsible 
Sourcing strategy with the Amgen Board of Directors.
STRATEGY & OBJECTIVES 
Amgen works with an extensive global network of 
suppliers to help ensure that we can continue to provide 
high-quality medicines reliably and efficiently around 
the world. Our commitment to ESG is not limited to our 
own operations; we also recognize our responsibility 
to have our suppliers align with our ethical, social, and 
environmental values and commitments.
AMBITION
We are dedicated to delivering value by providing 
opportunities to diverse suppliers and requiring all suppliers 
to conduct their business in an ethical and sustainable 
manner aligned with Amgen values.PROGRAMMATIC 
HIGHLIGHTS
Supplier Sustainability 
Our Supplier Sustainability Program aims to ensure suppliers 
address not only quality, cost, and reliability requirements, 
but also ethical, environmental, and social considerations 
including business ethics, labor, human rights, and 
environmental impact. Our Supplier Code of Conduct sets 
our fundamental expectations of our suppliers and is aligned 
with our core values. 
Our Supplier Sustainability Program includes sustainability 
assessments of our suppliers’ performance in relation to our 
Supplier Code of Conduct. Through these assessments, 
we gain an understanding of the maturity of our suppliers’ 
ethical, environmental, and social governance programs. 
These assessments have sometimes led to a dialogue and 
identification of opportunities for the suppliers to develop 
plans to enhance their programs. In such cases, we 
measure their progress against these plans.56RESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGINTRODUCTIONCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIX GOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINEDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYSupplier Diversity
Through our U.S. Supplier Diversity Program, we continue 
to identify, develop, and contract with small and diverse 
businesses to supply goods and services to Amgen.
By 2023, we aim to double our spend with diverse 
businesses, including minority, women, disadvantaged, 
veteran, and LGBTQ-owned suppliers, and triple our 
spend with Black-owned businesses, as compared to our 
2019 baseline. 
We work with a third party to help identify new diverse 
suppliers as part of our sourcing strategy. We also continue 
to raise awareness across the Company through refresher 
trainings on our supplier diversity program, by sharing best 
practices gained through benchmarking, and engaging 
employees in supplier diversity outreach opportunities. 
Amgen also participates in conferences and events 
and engages with national and local nonprofit diversity 
organizations such as the National Minority Supplier 
Development Council, Women’s Business Enterprise 
National Council (WBENC), and Diversity Alliance for 
Science (DA4S) to connect with small and diverse 
businesses. Additionally, we collaborate with WBEC-West 
and DA4S to mentor small and diverse suppliers each year. 
In 2020, we hosted suppliers participating in our mentorship program at our Thousand Oaks, Calif., campus for a day 
of educational seminars, focusing on topics affecting 
small and diverse businesses. We intend to expand our 
mentorship program to minority suppliers with a focus on 
Black-owned businesses in 2021.
Beginning in 2021, we will also ask select strategic 
suppliers to report their diversity spend (Tier 2) to us on a 
quarterly basis in an effort to expand, grow, and sustain 
diverse suppliers beyond our direct supplier (Tier 1) 
relationships. In addition, we intend to begin measuring 
the economic impact of our supplier diversity program in 
local communities. 
VALUE CREATION 
Our ability to deliver life-saving medicines depends 
on a resilient supply chain. By strengthening the ESG 
performance of our suppliers, we can reduce our 
collective footprint and help ensure business continuity 
through improved supply chain conditions. By working 
with diverse suppliers, we are increasing the number of 
diverse suppliers positioned to compete for business with 
us. Engaging diverse suppliers not only benefits these 
suppliers and Amgen, but also uplifts the communities in 
which they operate through job creation and potential for 
better wages and tax revenues.PERFORMANCE 
Initially, we implemented our Supplier Sustainability program 
by conducting sustainability performance assessments of our 
top-tier strategic suppliers. Over time, we have consistently 
increased the number of suppliers we assess for sustainability 
performance. Currently, we measure sustainability 
performance for ~65% of our total supplier spend.
In 2020, we continued our participation in the 
Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative, which seeks to 
promote responsible supply chain management and better 
business conditions across the industry. We also continued 
our involvement in a life-science-specific forum established 
by EcoVadis to strengthen the sector’s approach to supply 
chain management with a specific focus on environmental 
and social sustainability.
MORE INFORMATION 
Supplier Code of Conduct
Supplier Diversity
Partnering With Suppliers to Promote 
Environmental Sustainability
California Supply Chain Transparency Act 
Conflict Minerals57RESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGINTRODUCTIONCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAPPENDIX GOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINEDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENT 58
COMMUNITY INVESTMENTINTRODUCTION APPENDIX GOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINEDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGGOVERNANCE 
The Amgen Foundation Board of Directors meets quarterly 
and is responsible for overseeing the Foundation’s vision 
and operating policy, its annual strategy, compliance, and 
approving grants. It is chaired by Amgen’s Senior Vice 
President of Corporate Affairs.
The Amgen Foundation Audit Committee selects, retains, 
and oversees the Foundation’s independent auditor and 
oversees the financial affairs of the Foundation. 
AMBITION
Through the Amgen Foundation, we are committed to seeking 
to advance excellence in science education, particularly 
among low-income and disadvantaged populations, and 
to invest in strengthening communities where Amgen 
employees live and work.
STRATEGY & OBJECTIVES 
As part of its mission, the Amgen Foundation seeks to 
advance excellence in science education to inspire the 
next generation of innovators and invest in strengthening 
communities where Amgen employees live and work. It does 
so by supporting and collaborating with local, regional, and 
international nonprofit organizations. 
Supporting Excellence in Science Education 
Through its partnerships and signature programs focused 
on science education, the Amgen Foundation focuses on 
two main objectives: 
•   Growing the pool of high school students who are 
Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM)-
literate and interested in pursuing a degree that 
leads to a science career, particularly in underserved 
communities and populations.
•   Enhancing the quality and number of university graduates 
pursuing careers in STEM, healthcare, and biotechnology, 
particularly from groups underrepresented in STEM fields.
Strengthening Local Communities 
The Amgen Foundation supports local organizations where 
Amgen employees live and work, as well as employee-driven 
philanthropy with matching gifts and volunteer service programs. 
The Foundation also works with partners to support disaster-
relief efforts affecting local communities around the world. Each year, Amgen also provides all employees with eight 
hours of volunteer paid time off. In 2020, we expanded 
opportunities for employees to volunteer virtually.
PROGRAMMATIC 
HIGHLIGHTS
The Amgen Foundation supports the following four signature 
science education programs:
•   Amgen Scholars: An annual program that pairs 360 
undergraduate students with research opportunities at 
more than 20 top-tier institutions around the world. 
•   Amgen Biotech Experience:  A science education 
program created to enable secondary school science 
teachers to implement real-world biotechnology labs in 
their classrooms. In the United States, more than half of 
the public schools with participating science teachers 
are Title I. 
•   LabXchange: Launched by the Amgen Foundation and 
the Faculty of Arts and Sciences at Harvard University in 
January 2020, this free online science education platform 
provides users with access to personalized instruction, 
virtual lab experiences, and networking opportunities 
across the global scientific community.
•   Khan Academy: Offers a high-quality virtual classroom 
for students and teachers globally. The Amgen 
Foundation is the Khan Academy’s Biology Partner and 
supports partnerships with U.S. school districts.59COMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTINTRODUCTION APPENDIX GOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINEDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCING60
VALUE CREATION 
Investment in science education helps build the future 
pipeline of innovators and scientists that the world will need 
to tackle global challenges, from climate change to global 
pandemics. It also helps to build the scientific literacy of 
citizens, which is critical to our industry, society, and public 
health. Investment in local communities contributes to 
the stability and economic growth in areas where Amgen 
employees live and work. All help raise awareness among 
the public, government, and society leaders of the Amgen 
Foundation’s role in supporting important social challenges.
PERFORMANCE
Science Education  
Since its founding, the Amgen Foundation has:
•   contributed nearly $200 million to advancing science 
education programming globally.
•   supported tens of thousands of teachers with effective 
professional development, strengthening their ability to 
deliver high-quality science education.
•   reached millions of students with hands-on and virtual 
experiences in science.COMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTINTRODUCTION APPENDIX GOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINEDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGLABXCHANGE
One year post launch (January 2020), the new online platform has more than 6 
million users across the globe and 59 collaborating partners. The Amgen Foundation 
has committed nearly $13 million to date to LabXchange to ensure that everyone, 
everywhere has equal opportunity for success in science. KHAN ACADEMY
In 2020, the Amgen Foundation renewed funding to Khan Academy to support virtual biology 
lessons, partnerships with U.S. school districts facing budget shortfalls, and a collaboration with 
LabXchange. Since 2015, the Foundation has committed nearly $7 million to Khan Academy. In 
April 2020 at the peak of the COVID-19 pandemic, Khan Academy’s biology content experienced 
a 50% increase in traffic over the previous year as learning shifted online for many students.
133,487 231Hours of 
Learning 
DeliveredCountries and 
TerritoriesTotal Visitors
Million3.820
Million Biology 
Content Users2020  PROGRAM REACH: 2020  PROGRAM REACH:61COMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTINTRODUCTION APPENDIX GOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINEDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGAMGEN SCHOLARS
For 2020, due to COVID-19, we adapted the traditional Amgen Scholars program into 
a virtual Summer Science Series. Developed in partnership with Harvard University, 
current Amgen Scholars and more than 4,200 program alumni had access to online 
lectures hosted by prominent scientific thinkers on topics such as cancer vaccine 
development, immunology, biotech entrepreneurship, and life as a Ph.D. candidate. 
Faculty at host institutions, as well as a number of Amgen employees and scientists, 
served as speakers for the series.AMGEN BIOTECH EXPERIENCE
The Amgen Foundation committed $16.4 million in additional funding to the Amgen Biotech 
Experience (ABE). The additional funding is expected to increase the overall reach of the 
program to more than 1 million students. This new funding brings the Foundation’s total 
commitment to more than $40 million since the program was founded 30 years ago. In addition, 
in 2020, ABE launched a new online curriculum that explored the COVID-19 pandemic and, 
through a partnership with LabXchange, virtual ABE laboratory activities were made available 
to student learners in 12 languages at no cost. ABE has grown from a collaboration between 
a small number of Amgen scientists and biology teachers in Thousand Oaks, CA., to a global 
program in more than 20 communities. 
PROGRAM IMPACT19
750
Colleges and 
UniversitiesRepresented 
More Than
U.S. States and 
TerritoriesCountries52 73SINCE 2007 , AMGEN SCHOLARS HAVE COME FROM:
1,634+
Schools Students Teachers838,000+ 3,600+SINCE 1990 , ABE HAS REACHED:  
of teachers reported greater interest, knowledge, and skills from the training. 80%of students agree that the ABE gave them a deeper understanding of 
what happens in science laboratories.82%62
19  ABE Student Assessment Study.COMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTINTRODUCTION APPENDIX GOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINEDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGIN MEMORIAMSpotlight
Dr. Robert Lue, Professor of the Practice of Molecular and Cellular Biology, the 
UNESCO Chair on Life Sciences and Social Innovation at Harvard University, 
and the driving force behind LabXchange, passed away in November 2020 
from cancer at the age of 56. Since 2011, he also led the Amgen Biotech 
Experience in Massachusetts.“Rob was a renowned scientist and a visionary educator. In making LabXchange 
a reality, Rob, his team, and our foundation have made a significant and lasting 
impact in leveling the playing field so that everyone has access to a world-class 
science education. We are committed to building on Rob’s legacy.”
Eduardo Cetlin,
President, Amgen Foundation63COMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTINTRODUCTION APPENDIX GOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINEDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGStrengthening Local Communities  
To address critical needs in communities affected by the 
COVID-19 pandemic, Amgen and the Amgen Foundation 
committed $12.5 million to U.S. and global emergency 
response efforts and to patient-focused organizations, 
including Direct Relief and International Medical Corps. For 
more information, see page 17.
Disaster Relief 
The Amgen Foundation committed $100,000 to International 
Medical Corps to provide immediate support following the 
massive explosions in Beirut in August 2020. In a city that 
already faced a crippling financial crisis and effects of the 
COVID-19 pandemic, the grant was directed toward helping 
survivors of the Beirut explosion access life-saving care and 
mental health services.
MORE INFORMATION
Amgen Inspires
LabXchange
Amgen Scholars
Amgen Biotech Experience
Khan Academy64
15 Million$35 Million
$25 Million
$15 Million
$5 Million$32.0
$4.5
2020$31.1
$4.0
2019$21.5
$4.0
2018
Since inception, the Amgen Foundation has contributed more than $350 million to local, regional, and international 
nonprofit organizations that reflect our core values and complement our dedication to positively af fecting lives.Total Giving
Matching GiftsAmgen Foundation GivingCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTINTRODUCTION APPENDIX GOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINEDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCING65
UNITED NATIONS 
GLOBAL COMPACT  
COMMUNICATION ON 
PROGRESS
This report serves as Amgen’s Communication on Progress 
for the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). The 
statement from our CEO and Chairman at the beginning 
of the report reaffirms our commitment to the principles of 
the UNGC, and much of the content throughout this report 
highlights progress in the four key areas of the UNGC: 
Environment, Labor, Human Rights, and Anti-Corruption. 
Over the past 12 months, we have achieved progress in all 
four areas – a few highlights follow. Human Rights
•   In the wake of the civil protests in the United States, 
the Amgen Foundation committed $7.5 million in grants 
to support racial justice and equal opportunity to 
established national and local organizations advancing 
social justice, equal opportunity, and science education 
programs explicitly reaching communities of color.
•   The Amgen Black Employee Network, with sponsorship 
from senior medical leadership, launched 
“Representation in Clinical Research,” also known as RISE. 
The initiative will work with Amgen’s Global Development 
Operations and other key groups to diversify investigators 
and clinical trial sites and work with community nonprofits 
to help remove barriers to participation in clinical trials.
Labor
•   We introduced a new global Diversity, Inclusion, and 
Belonging strategy to leverage our diversity and create a 
more inclusive workplace. 
•   We are a founding member of OneTen, a coalition 
of more than 40 of the world’s largest, best-known 
companies that aims collectively to hire 1 million Black 
Americans (with a specific focus on Black Americans 
without four-year college degrees) into good-paying, 
family-sustaining jobs over the next 10 years.
•   We introduced Managing Unconscious Bias, a required 
online training course for employees in the United States, 
Puerto Rico, and Canada.Environment
•   We met all of our 2013-2020 environmental targets on or 
before schedule.
•   We launched a new seven-year “Road to Net Zero” 
environmental sustainability plan that includes goals to 
achieve carbon neutrality for Amgen-owned facilities and 
operations, reduce waste disposed by 75%, and reduce 
water use by 40%.^
•   We published a formal statement on our approach to 
Pharmaceuticals in the Environment on our website. 
Anti-Corruption 
•   We surveyed all Amgen employees globally about our 
ethics climate. The survey measured program awareness, 
program effectiveness and organizational culture. 
In addition to this report, Amgen provides extensive reporting 
on policies and progress aligned with the UNGC on our 
website. Below is a summary table providing links to existing 
reporting aligned with the major categories of UNGC principles.
APPENDIX
APPENDIX
^   Reductions take into account only verified reduction projections, and do not take into 
account changes associated with the contraction or expansion of the company.INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINEDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENT66
Amgen Policies, 
Programs, and Reporting
2020 ESG annual report
Commitment to corporate
social responsibility
Employee code of conduct
Diversity and inclusion
Access to medicine
Employee health and safety
Employee wellness
Environment, health and
safety policy
Nondiscrimination
Environmental sustainability
commitment
Environmental sustainability
performance
Amgen Foundation
Supplier sustainability
California Supply Chain
Transparency Act
Conflict minerals policy
Conflict minerals reportUNGC Principles Categories
Human Rights Environment Labor Anti-Corruption Supplier diversity
Conflicts of interest policy
Anti-corruption and U.S.
foreign corrupt practices
Interactions with
healthcare providers
Counterfeit drugs
Global patient safety
Grants and giving
Antitrust and unfair
competition policy
Dealing with the
government policy
Compliance reporting and
nonretaliation
Insider trading policy
Protection of personal
information policy
Awards and accolades
Global code of ethics for
clinical trials
Clinical trial diversity policy
Human rights commitmentHuman Rights Environment Labor Anti-CorruptionAPPENDIX INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINEDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENT67
Selected Company Performance Data
Type Unit 2016 2018 2017 2019 2020
Net sales 
Non-GAAP net income (i)
Non-GAAP R&D expenses (i)
Total energy (ii)
Total carbon from energy (ii)
Total water withdrawal (ii)
Total routine waste (ii)
Environmental notices of violation (NOVs) (iii) 
Employee injury and illness rate
Employee lost-day case rate
Amgen employee (FTE)
% of women in total workforce
% of women management level (iv)
% of women executive level (v)
% of ethnic minority in workforce (U.S.)
% of ethnic minority management levels (U.S.) (iv)
% of ethnic minority executive level (U.S.) (v)
Value of medicines provided at no cost in low- and 
middle-income countries through Direct Relief (vi)
Value of medicines provided at no cost to low-
income patients in the United States through the 
Amgen Safety Net Foundation (vi) $ Millions  $21,892 $21,795 $22,533 $23,362 $25,424
 $ Millions $8,785 $9,246 $9,573 $9,028 $9,795
 $ Millions $3,755 $3,482 $3,657 $4,027 $4,085
 1,000 GJ 3,535 3,709 3,284 3,094 3,286
 1,000 MT CO2Eq 291 278 263 249 243
 2,000 CM 2,351 2,320 2,093 2,146 2,355
 MT 10,330 9,856 9,642 9,818 9,841
 1 NOV 1 1 3 2 1
 Incidents per 100 workers 0.44 0.36 0.41 0.31 .3
 Incidents per 100 workers 0.14 0.13 0.14 0.12 .07
 People 19,200 20,800 21,500  24,300
 People 50 51 52 52 52
 People 44 44 45 46 47
 People 33 37 36 39 42
 People 45 45 45 47 48
 People 38 39 39 41 42
 People  25 24 25 27 30
 $ Millions NA NA $69+ NA  $67+
 $ Billions $0.7+ $0.9+ $1.2+ $1.4+ $1.5+Data Notes
i) Amgen Inc. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 
(GAAP) to non-GAAP Reconciliations (In millions) 
(Unaudited)
 ii) Please see Responsibility/Environment on www.amgen.
com for an Independent Verification Statement for 
this data. Amgen has included data from 17 facilities 
covering energy and carbon, water and waste. The 
facilities represent approximately 88 percent of Amgen’s 
worldwide facility space based on total square feet. 
Included facilities are in Thousand Oaks, California, 
U.S.; West Greenwich, Rhode Island, U.S.; Juncos, 
Puerto Rico, U.S.; Louisville, Kentucky, U.S.; South 
San Francisco, California, U.S.; Cambridge and 
Woburn, Massachusetts, U.S.; Burnaby, Canada; 
Breda, Netherlands; Dun Laoghaire, Ireland; Uxbridge 
and Cambridge, United Kingdom; São Paulo, Brazil; 
Yenibosna and Sekerpinar, Turkey; Tuas, Singapore; and 
Shanghai, China. This includes leased buildings where 
we have operational control over building infrastructure, 
including utilities.
iii) Environmental notices of violation (NOVs) reported that 
resulted from agency inspections.
iv) Management: Senior managers and directors
v) Executive level: Executive directors and above
vi) Value calculated at wholesale acquisition costAPPENDIX INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINEDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENT68
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Measures (In millions) (Unaudited)
2018 2020 2016 2017 2019 2015 2014
Years Ended December 31,
Data Notes
i) The adjustments related primarily to noncash amortization 
of intangible assets from business acquisitions. For 
the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, 2018 and 
2017, the adjustments to operating income also included 
impairments of intangible assets acquired in business 
combinations.  
ii) The adjustments related to headcount charges, such 
as severance, and to asset charges, such as asset 
impairments, accelerated depreciation and other charges 
related to the closure of our facilities. 
iii) The adjustment related to the recognition of an additional 
year of the non-tax deductible branded prescription drug 
fee, as required by final regulations issued by the Internal 
Revenue Service.
iv) For the year ended December 31, 2020, the adjustments 
related to the amortization of the basis difference from our 
BeiGene equity method investment, partially offset by a 
gain from legal judgment proceeds. For the year ended 
December 31, 2018, the adjustment related to the net 
gain associated with the Kirin-Amgen, Inc. acquisition. 
For the year ended December 31, 2013, the adjustment 
included bridge financing costs associated with the Onyx 
business combination.
v) The tax effect of the adjustments between our GAAP and 
non-GAAP results takes into account the tax treatment 
and related tax rate(s) that apply to each adjustment in 
the applicable tax jurisdiction(s). Generally, this results 
in a tax impact at the U.S. marginal tax rate for certain 
adjustments, including the majority of amortization 
of intangible assets, whereas the tax impact of other 
adjustments, including restructuring expense, depends 
on whether the amounts are deductible in the respective 
tax jurisdictions and the applicable tax rate(s) in those 
jurisdictions.
vi) The adjustments related to certain acquisition items and 
prior-period items excluded from GAAP earnings. For the 
year ended December 31, 2017, the adjustment related 
primarily to the impact of U.S. Corporate tax reform, 
including the repatriation tax on accumulated foreign 
earnings and the remeasurement of certain net deferred 
and other tax liabilities.2013
 $ 4,207 $ 4,116 $ 3,737 $ 3,562 $ 3,840 $ 4,070 $ 4,297 $ 4,083 
 
  (120)   (87)   (78)   (77)   (78)   (89)   (124)   (142)
  (2)   (2)   (2)   (3)   (7)   (64)   (49)   - 
  -    -    -    -    -    -    (3)   (12)
  (122)   (89)   (80)   (80)   (85)   (153)   (176)   (154)
 $ 4,085 $ 4,027 $ 3,657 $ 3,482 $ 3,755 $ 3,917 $ 4,121 $ 3,929 
               
 $ 9,139 $ 9,674 $ 10,263 $ 9,973 $ 9,794 $ 8,470 $ 6,191 $ 5,867 
  3,013    1,438    1,557    1,594    1,510    1,377    1,546    986 
  (3)   45    12    88    37    114    596    71 
  185    -    -    -    105    91    (3)   14 
  -    -    -    -    -    -    16    34 
  -    -    -    -    129    - 
  -    -    25    3    -    -    -    - 
  3,195    1,483    1,594    1,685    1,652    1,582    2,284    1,105 
 $ 12,334 $ 11,157 $ 11,857 $ 11,658 $ 11,446 $ 10,052  $ 8,475 $ 6,972 
               
 $ 7,264 $ 7,842 $ 8,394 $ 1,979 $ 7,722 $ 6,939 $ 5,158 $ 5,081 
  3,195    1,483    1,594    1,685    1,652    1,582    2,284    1,105 
  37    -    (68)   -    -    -    -    34 
  (634)   (329)   (362)   (538)   (525)   (496)   (717)   (376)
  (67)   32    15    6,120    (64)   (71)   (25)   (30)
  2,531    1,186    1,179    7,267    1,063    1,015    1,542    733 
 $ 9,795 $ 9,028 $ 9,573 $ 9,246 $ 8,785 $ 7,954 $ 6,700 $ 5,814 
               GAAP research and development expenses
Adjustments to research and development expenses:
Acquisition-related expenses (i)
Certain charges pursuant to our restructuring and other cost savings initiatives (ii)
Stock option expense
Total adjustments to research and development expenses
Non-GAAP research and development expenses 
 
GAAP operating income
Adjustments to operating income:
Acquisition-related expenses (i)
Certain charges pursuant to our restructuring and other cost savings initiatives (ii)
Expense (benefit) related to various legal proceedings
Stock option expense
Expense resulting from clarified guidance on branded prescription drug fee (iii)
Other
Total adjustments to operating income
Non-GAAP operating income
GAAP net income
Adjustments to net income:
Adjustments to operating income
Adjustments to other income (iv)
Income tax effect of the above adjustments (v)
Other income tax adjustments (vi)
Total adjustments to net income
Non-GAAP net incomeAPPENDIX INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINEDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENT69
SASB TABLE 
This ESG Report is part of Amgen’s overall commitment 
to providing robust reporting on our ESG performance. 
We have also integrated ESG information in our Annual 
Report and 10-K, as well as our Proxy Statement. As noted 
previously, this ESG report was prepared in alignment with 
the Biopharma Sustainability Roundtable Investor ESG 
Communications Guidance, which integrates key elements 
and principles of the Sustainability Accounting Standards 
Board (SASB) standard for the biotechnology industry.
In the following table, we have indicated where Amgen 
reports on metrics that are included in the SASB standard, 
including sections of this report, our website, our proxy 
statement and our periodic filings with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission. Our ESG reporting continues to 
evolve and expand. As a result, where we have indicated 
that we do not report on a metric at this time, we will continue 
to evaluate our ability to report on that metric in the future.
SASB TOPIC ACCOUNTING METRIC REPORTINGUNIT OF 
MEASURECODE
Discussion, by world region, 
management process for ensuring 
quality and patient safety during 
clinical trialsPertinent reporting can be found in the Global 
Code of Ethics for Clinical Trials, Quality, and 
Global Patient Safety sections of our website; 
and the Business and Risk Factors section in 
Part I of the 10-K n/a HC-BP-210.a.1
Number of FDA Sponsor Inspections 
related to clinical trial management 
and pharmacovigilance that resulted 
in: (1) Voluntary Action Indicated 
(VAI) and (2) Official Action 
Indicated (OAI)Amgen discloses material, legal, and regulatory 
issues in its annual 10-K and quarterly 10-QsNumber HC-BP-210.a.2
Total amount of monetary losses 
as a result of legal proceedings 
associated with clinical trials in 
developing countriesAmgen discloses material, legal, and regulatory 
issues in its annual 10-K and quarterly 10-QsReporting 
currencyHC-BP-210.a.3
Safety of 
Clinical Trial 
Participants
Description of actions and 
initiatives to promote access to 
healthcare products for priority 
diseases and in priority countries 
as defined by the Access to 
Medicine IndexSee the Access to Medicine section of this 
Report, as well as Access to Medicine Initiatives 
Outside the U.S. section of our website and the 
Improving Patient Access to Medicines section 
of our 2021 Proxy Statement (within the Social 
Responsibility subsection of the heading “Our 
Approach to Environmental Sustainability, Social 
Responsibility and Human Capital Management”)n/a HC-BP-240a.1
List of products on the WHO List 
of Prequalified Medicinal Products 
as part of its Prequalification of 
Medicines Programme (PQP)None to disclose as of December 2020 n/a HC-BP-240a.2
Access to 
MedicinesAPPENDIX INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINEDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENT70
SASB TOPIC REPORTINGUNIT OF 
MEASURECODE
Number of settlements of Abbreviated 
New Drug Application (ANDA) 
litigation that involved payments and/
or provisions to delay bringing an 
authorized generic product to market 
for a defined time period
List of products listed in the Food 
and Drug Administration’s (FDA) 
MedWatch Safety Alerts for Human 
Medical Products databaseAmgen discloses material, legal, and regulatory 
issues in its annual 10-K and quarterly 10-Qs
See FDA MedWatch databaseNumber
n/aHC-BP-240b.1
HC-BP-250a.1Percentage change in: (1) average 
list price and (2) average net 
price across U.S. product portfolio 
compared to previous year
Number of fatalities associated with 
products as reported in the FDA 
Adverse Event Reporting SystemPertinent reporting can be found in the Our 
Approach to Pricing, Access and Affordability, 
and Amgen’s Approach to Responsible Pricing 
sections of our website; and the Risk Factors 
and the Management, Discussion and Analysis 
sections of the 10-K and quarterly 10-Qs
See FDA Adverse Event Reporting SystemPercentage 
(%)
NumberHC-BP-240b.2
HC-BP-250a.2Percentage change in: (1) list 
price and (2) net price of product 
with largest increase compared to 
previous yearPertinent reporting can be found in the Our 
Approach to Pricing, Access and Affordability, 
and Amgen’s Approach to Responsible Pricing 
sections of our website; and the Risk Factors 
and the Management, Discussion and Analysis 
sections of the 10-K and 10-QsPercentage 
(%)HC-BP-240b.3
Affordability 
& Pricing
Drug SafetyAPPENDIX INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINEDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENT
ACCOUNTING METRIC71
SASB TOPIC REPORTINGUNIT OF 
MEASURECODE
Number of recalls issued, total 
units recalledAmgen discloses material, legal, and regulatory 
issues in its annual 10-K and quarterly 10-Qs
Pertinent reporting can be found in the 
Counterfeit Drug Statement on our websiteNumber
n/aHC-BP-250a.3
HC-BP-260a.1Total amount of product accepted for 
take-back, reuse, or disposal
Discussion of process for alerting 
customers and business partners of 
potential or known risks associated 
with counterfeit productsData on product accepted through take-back 
can be found in the Product Sustainability 
section of our website (see the Product 
Packaging and Life Cycle section); in addition 
we provide information about the California Safe 
Needle Collection and Disposal Plan
Pertinent reporting can be found in the 
Counterfeit Drug Statement on our websiteMetric tons 
(t)
n/aHC-BP-250a.4
HC-BP-260a.2Number of FDA enforcement actions 
taken in response to violations 
of current Good Manufacturing 
Practices (cGMP), by type
Number of actions that led to 
raids, seizure, arrests, and/or filing 
of criminal charges related to 
counterfeit productsAmgen discloses material, legal, and regulatory 
issues in its annual 10-K and quarterly 10-Qs
Amgen discloses material, legal, and regulatory 
issues in its annual 10-K and quarterly 10-QsNumber
NumberHC-BP-250a.5
HC-BP-260a.3
Drug Safety
Counterfeit 
DrugsDescription of methods and 
technologies used to maintain 
traceability of products throughout 
the supply chain and prevent 
counterfeitingAPPENDIX INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINEDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENT
ACCOUNTING METRIC72
SASB TOPIC REPORTINGUNIT OF 
MEASURECODE
Total amount of monetary losses as a 
result of legal proceedings associated 
with false marketing claims
Discussion of talent recruitment and 
retention efforts for scientists and 
research and development personnel
Percentage of (1) entity’s facilities 
and (2) Tier I suppliers’ facilities 
participating in the Rx-360 
International Pharmaceutical Supply 
Chain Consortium audit program 
or equivalent third-party audit 
programs for integrity of supply 
chain and ingredientsAmgen discloses material, legal, and regulatory 
issues in its annual 10-K and quarterly 10-Qs
Pertinent reporting can be found on our 
Careers site, which describes our approach 
to talent recruitment and retention; also see 
the Human Capital Resources section (pages 
24 – 26) of our 10-K; and the Human Capital 
Management section of our 2021 Proxy 
Statement (pages 30 – 31) 
Amgen applies the requirements of its Quality 
Management System as described in the 
Quality section of our websiteReporting 
currency
n/a
Percentage 
(%)HC-BP-270a.1
HC-BP-330a.1
HC-BP-430a.1Description of code of ethics 
governing promotion of off-label use 
of products
(1) Voluntary and (2) involuntary 
turnover rate for: (a) executives/senior 
managers, (b) mid-level managers, (c) 
professionals, and (d) all othersOur policy on Communications with Members 
of the Healthcare Community prohibits off-label 
promotion (see page 3 of policy)
Amgen does not report on this metric at this time.n/a
RateHC-BP-270a.2
HC-BP-330a.2
Ethical 
Marketing
Employee 
Recruitment, 
Development 
& Retention
Supply Chain 
ManagementAPPENDIX INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINEDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENT
ACCOUNTING METRIC73
SASB TOPIC
ACTIVITY METRICREPORTING
REPORTINGUNIT OF 
MEASURE
UNIT OF 
MEASURECODE
CODETotal amount of monetary losses as a 
result of legal proceedings associated 
with corruption and briberyAmgen discloses material, legal, and regulatory 
issues in its annual 10-K and quarterly 10-Qs
Amgen regularly reports market segment share 
as part of its earnings calls and in its earnings 
releases that are furnished on Form 8-KReporting 
currency
NumberHC-BP-510a.1
HC-BP-000.ADescription of code of ethics 
governing promotion of off-label 
use of productsSee our policy on Communications with 
Members of the Healthcare Community
Pertinent reporting can be found in the Products 
and Pipeline sections on our website and the 
Business section of Part I of our 10-Kn/a
NumberHC-BP-510a.2
HC-BP-000.B
Business 
Ethics
Number of patients treated
Number of drugs (1) in portfolio and (2) in research 
and development (Phases 1-3)ACTIVITY METRICSThe inclusion of information contained in this disclosure 
should not be construed as a characterization regarding the 
materiality or financial impact of that information. Please also 
see our filed Form 10-K, and other publicly filed documents 
available at https://investors.amgen.com/financials/sec-filings. 
This report contains information about Amgen and may 
contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of 
the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. All statements, 
other than statements of historical facts, may be forward-
looking statements. Amgen cautions that forward-looking 
statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and 
uncertainties, which change over time. Forward-looking 
statements speak only as of the date they are made, and 
Amgen assumes no duty to and does not undertake to 
update forward-looking statements. Actual results could 
differ materially from those anticipated in forward-looking 
statements, and future results could differ materially from 
historical performance. Factors that can cause results to 
differ, as well as additional factors that can affect forward-
looking statements, are discussed in Amgen’s Annual 
Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, 
accessible on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov and on 
Amgen’s investor website at https://investors.amgen.com/ 
and https://investors.amgen.com/financials/sec-filings.APPENDIX INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINEDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENT
ACCOUNTING METRIC74
FORWARD-LOOKING 
STATEMENTS
This Environmental, Social and Governance Report contains 
forward-looking statements that are based on the current 
expectations and beliefs of Amgen. All statements, other than 
statements of historical fact, are statements that could be 
deemed forward-looking statements, including any statements 
on the outcome, benefits and synergies of collaborations, or 
potential collaborations, with any other company (including 
BeiGene, Ltd. or any collaboration to manufacture therapeutic 
antibodies against COVID-19), the performance of Otezla® 
(apremilast) (including anticipated Otezla sales growth 
and the timing of non-GAAP EPS accretion), or the Five 
Prime Therapeutics, Inc. acquisition as well as estimates of 
revenues, operating margins, capital expenditures, cash, 
other financial metrics, expected legal, arbitration, political, 
regulatory or clinical results or practices, customer and 
prescriber patterns or practices, reimbursement activities and 
outcomes, effects of pandemics or other widespread health 
problems such as the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic on our 
business, outcomes, progress, or effects relating to studies of 
Otezla as a potential treatment for COVID-19, and other such 
estimates and results. Forward-looking statements involve 
significant risks and uncertainties, including those discussed 
below and more fully described in the Securities and 
Exchange Commission reports filed by Amgen, including our 
most recent annual report on Form 10-K and any subsequent periodic reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on 
Form 8-K. Unless otherwise noted, Amgen is providing this 
information as of May 18, 2021 and does not undertake 
any obligation to update any forward-looking statements 
contained in this document as a result of new information, 
future events or otherwise.
No forward-looking statement can be guaranteed and actual 
results may differ materially from those we project. Our results 
may be affected by our ability to successfully market both 
new and existing products domestically and internationally, 
clinical and regulatory developments involving current and 
future products, sales growth of recently launched products, 
competition from other products including biosimilars, 
difficulties or delays in manufacturing our products and global 
economic conditions. In addition, sales of our products are 
affected by pricing pressure, political and public scrutiny 
and reimbursement policies imposed by third-party payers, 
including governments, private insurance plans and 
managed care providers and may be affected by regulatory, 
clinical and guideline developments and domestic and 
international trends toward managed care and healthcare 
cost containment. Furthermore, our research, testing, pricing, 
marketing and other operations are subject to extensive 
regulation by domestic and foreign government regulatory 
authorities. We or others could identify safety, side effects 
or manufacturing problems with our products, including our 
devices, after they are on the market. Our business may 
be impacted by government investigations, litigation and 
product liability claims. In addition, our business may be impacted by the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure 
to additional tax liabilities. If we fail to meet the compliance 
obligations in the corporate integrity agreement between 
us and the U.S. government, we could become subject 
to significant sanctions. Further, while we routinely obtain 
patents for our products and technology, the protection 
offered by our patents and patent applications may be 
challenged, invalidated or circumvented by our competitors, 
or we may fail to prevail in present and future intellectual 
property litigation. We perform a substantial amount of our 
commercial manufacturing activities at a few key facilities, 
including in Puerto Rico, and also depend on third parties for 
a portion of our manufacturing activities, and limits on supply 
may constrain sales of certain of our current products and 
product candidate development. An outbreak of disease 
or similar public health threat, such as COVID-19, and the 
public and governmental effort to mitigate against the spread 
of such disease, could have a significant adverse effect on 
the supply of materials for our manufacturing activities, the 
distribution of our products, the commercialization of our 
product candidates, and our clinical trial operations, and 
any such events may have a material adverse effect on our 
product development, product sales, business and results 
of operations. We rely on collaborations with third parties for 
the development of some of our product candidates and for 
the commercialization and sales of some of our commercial 
products. In addition, we compete with other companies with 
respect to many of our marketed products as well as for the APPENDIX INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINEDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENT75
discovery and development of new products. Discovery or 
identification of new product candidates or development of 
new indications for existing products cannot be guaranteed 
and movement from concept to product is uncertain; 
consequently, there can be no guarantee that any particular 
product candidate or development of a new indication for an 
existing product will be successful and become a commercial 
product. Further, some raw materials, medical devices and 
component parts for our products are supplied by sole 
third-party suppliers. Certain of our distributors, customers 
and payers have substantial purchasing leverage in their 
dealings with us. The discovery of significant problems with 
a product similar to one of our products that implicate an 
entire class of products could have a material adverse effect 
on sales of the affected products and on our business and 
results of operations. Our efforts to collaborate with or acquire 
other companies, products or technology, and to integrate 
the operations of companies or to support the products or 
technology we have acquired, may not be successful. A 
breakdown, cyberattack or information security breach could 
compromise the confidentiality, integrity and availability of 
our systems and our data. Our stock price is volatile and 
may be affected by a number of events. Global economic 
conditions may magnify certain risks that affect our business. 
Our business performance could affect or limit the ability of 
our Board of Directors to declare a dividend or our ability to 
pay a dividend or repurchase our common stock. We may not 
be able to access the capital and credit markets on terms that 
are favorable to us, or at all.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 
AND DISCLOSURES
Donations and grants made by the company and
the Amgen Foundation
Political contributions in the United States
Disclosures in alignment with the European
Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and
Associations codes of practice
Securities and Exchange Commission financial disclosures 
Responses to CDP Climate Change and Water surveys
Environmental data (2012 through 2020)APPENDIX INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCECOVID- 19 
RESPONSEBUSINESS 
ETHICSETHICAL 
RESEARCHACCESS TO 
MEDICINEDIVERSITY, INCLUSION, 
AND BELONGINGENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITYRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCINGCOMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTAmgen Inc.
One Amgen Center Drive
Thousand Oaks, CA 91320-1799
www.amgen.com