RESPONSIBILITY 
HIGHLIGHTS 
REPORT2018Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report    2Amgen discovers, develops, manufactures 
and delivers life-changing human medicines 
that address unmet medical needs and 
help reduce the social and economic 
burden of disease in society. Our innovative 
medicines have reached millions of people 
in the fight against serious illnesses. These 
medicines typically address diseases for 
which there are limited treatment options 
or provide a viable alternative, such as 
high-quality biosimilars, to what is otherwise 
available. We focus on six therapeutic 
areas: cardiovascular disease, oncology, 
neuroscience, inflammation, nephrology  
and bone health.
Amgen combines leading-edge research 
with world-class biomanufacturing 
capabilities. Amgen’s approach to  
drug discovery begins with developing  
a deep understanding of the biology  of a disease first, then selecting the right 
drug modality, or structural format, best 
suited for the target. As a worldwide leader 
in biologics manufacturing, we’re proud 
of our outstanding track record of reliably 
delivering high-quality medicines to  
patients who need them.
As you’ll read in this report, we are 
committed to responsible behavior inside 
our company and in our communities. 
We are proud to have built an ethical 
culture rooted in science and innovation 
that embraces diversity and inclusion. 
A longstanding commitment to creating 
positive change in the world drives our 
contributions in the community, where 
we are focused on building a healthier, 
stronger, inspired and more  
sustainable future.ABOUT AMGEN
FOR MORE INFORMATION, VISIT ABOUT AMGEN  ON
www.amgen.com
“Since Amgen’s founding in 1980, 
our staff have directed their 
intelligence and enthusiasm 
toward a simple, yet powerful 
mission: to serve patients, 
especially those suffering from 
serious illness. ”
—ROBERT A. BRADWAY , CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER BUSINESS ETHICS ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE ACCESS TO MEDICINE COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report    3Medicines donated through Direct Relief 
reached more than 7,000 patients in 18 
low- and middle-income countries.
SPOTLIGHT ON 2018
Included in Amgen’s mission to serve patients  
is a responsibility to support strong communities 
where we live and work. Improving patient 
access to medicines, supporting science 
education for the next generation of innovators, 
integrating environmentally sustainable practices 
throughout our business and giving back through 
philanthropy and volunteering are just some of 
the many efforts we are proud to highlight in  
this report.100% of staff completed 
Code of Conduct training.52% of our global 
workforce is female.We’ve met our 2020 
carbon and water 
environmental targets 
ahead of schedule.
Amgen Foundation Science  
Education programs reach  
more than 7 million students.
BUSINESS ETHICS ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE ACCESS TO MEDICINE COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report    4BUSINESS  
ETHICS  |  14
We have an unwavering 
commitment to integrity  
and compliance. 
CONTENTS
WORKPLACE  |  26
We create an inclusive, 
safe and healthy work 
environment.COMMITMENT  |  7
Our commitment extends 
beyond making vital 
medicines.ENVIRONMENT  |  21
We proactively reduce our 
impact on the environment.
COMMUNITY  |  17
Amgen and the Amgen 
Foundation contribute to  
the greater good.REPORTING  |  29
We communicate our 
progress in alignment  
with global standards.ACCESS TO 
MEDICINE  |  10
Our mission is to 
serve patients.Our 2018 Responsibility 
Highlights Report features 
selected accomplishments in 
the many areas where we are 
making positive contributions 
for patients and beyond. 
Complete information and 
full data can be found on 
www.amgen.com.Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report    5BUSINESS ETHICS ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE ACCESS TO MEDICINE COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
LEADERSHIP MESSAGE
Thank you for your interest in Amgen and our focus 
on building a healthier and more sustainable future 
for people and communities around the world.
Since Amgen’s founding in 1980, our staff have 
directed their intelligence and enthusiasm toward 
a simple, yet powerful mission: to serve patients, 
especially those suffering from serious illness. In 
pursuit of this mission, we have grown over time 
from a company with a handful of medicines treating 
hundreds of thousands of patients largely in the U.S. 
to a company with 20 medicines treating millions of 
patients in approximately 100 countries around the 
world. As we seek to have an even greater impact 
on global health, we invest heavily in research and 
development to find new treatments—nearly $19 
billion in the past five years alone—resulting in the 
strongest pipeline in our history.
Our medicines target diseases that place a 
tremendous burden on individuals and society, 
including cancer and cardiovascular disease. 
According to the World Health Organization, 
cancer claimed an estimated 9.6 million lives 
worldwide in 2018 and costs society well over  $1 trillion a year. Nearly 18 million people die every 
year from cardiovascular disease, which costs 
approximately $600 billion annually in the U.S. alone. 
We are making progress in expanding patient access 
to our medicines. In 2018, the commercial value of 
the medicines provided by the Amgen Safety Net 
Foundation at no cost to patients in the U.S. who 
could not afford them exceeded $1 billion. We also 
donated nearly $100 million worth of Amgen cancer 
treatments and supportive care medicines last year 
for distribution to patients in 18 developing countries at 
no cost through the nonprofit organization Direct Relief.  
Even as we work to provide innovative treatment 
options to as many patients as possible, we 
continuously seek opportunities to contribute to the 
greater good in other ways. As you’ll read in this 
report, we make many contributions in the areas of 
environmental sustainability, science education and 
community assistance.  As an example, in 2018, we met our 2020 carbon and 
water conservation targets well ahead of schedule. 
One of the innovations that helped us to achieve 
these targets is our pioneering next-generation 
biomanufacturing capability, which uses a fraction of 
the energy and water of conventional plants. Our first 
next-generation facility, in Singapore, was licensed 
by regulators in 2017. In 2018, we broke ground on 
our second such plant in Rhode Island. 
We are in a long-cycle business, and much of the 
work taking place at Amgen today will be carried 
forward in the future by those who have yet to even 
enter the workforce. We are focused, therefore, on 
inspiring the scientists of tomorrow by increasing 
access to science, technology, engineering and 
mathematics education. To this end, the Amgen 
Foundation has invested nearly $150 million in a 
range of hands-on and virtual science, technology, 
engineering and mathematics education programs 
that have reached more than 7 million students 
around the world. It brings us great satisfaction to 
see many of these students go on to pursue careers 
in biopharmaceutical research, pushing the boundaries 
of innovation on behalf of patients. Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report    6BUSINESS ETHICS ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE ACCESS TO MEDICINE COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
LEADERSHIP MESSAGE
We are committed to being a good neighbor in 
the communities where we work and live around 
the world. In 2018, the community surrounding our 
global headquarters in Southern California faced two 
nearly simultaneous crises. Following the tragic mass 
shooting at the Borderline Bar and Grill, which killed 
12 people, massive wildfires erupted in and around 
our community. In addition to financial assistance 
from the Amgen Foundation, hundreds of Amgen 
staff members lent helping hands by volunteering, 
giving blood, donating to relief funds, thanking first 
responders and opening their homes to colleagues 
and neighbors who needed to be evacuated.
Our commitment to sustainability and good corporate 
citizenship is aligned with respected global 
frameworks, including the UN Global Compact. In 
this report, we demonstrate our ongoing commitment 
to the UN principles and communicate our progress. 
We are proud to see our efforts recognized and in 
2018, for the fifth consecutive year, Amgen earned a spot on the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices World 
Index. In early 2019, we were named a Best Place 
to Work for LGBTQ Equality by the Human Rights 
Campaign Foundation, earning a perfect score on 
the HRC’s Corporate Equality Index for the third year 
in a row.
We are grateful to our more than 21,000 staff 
members and the many partners we work with 
around the world. We value your ideas, questions 
and comments and ask you to share them through 
responsibility@amgen.com. I hope you will follow our 
progress as we continue to advance as a successful, 
socially responsible enterprise.
“Even as we work to provide innovative 
treatment options to as many patients  
as possible, we continuously seek 
opportunities to contribute to the  
greater good in other ways. ”
Robert A. Bradway
Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerAmgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report    7BUSINESS ETHICS ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE ACCESS TO MEDICINE COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
COMMITMENT
Corporate responsibility is important to Amgen since 
making a positive difference in the world is at the heart 
of what we do— and it goes beyond making  
vital medicines. Our approach to corporate 
responsibility encompasses seven key elements:  
1) improving access to our medicines, 2) ensuring 
we operate with the highest standards of business 
ethics, 3) continuing our corporate philanthropy 
with a focus on STEM education, 4) enhancing the 
diversity and inclusion of our workforce, 5) conducting 
ethical research and development, 6) improving the 
environmental sustainability of our operations and  
7) increasing the diversity and sustainability 
performance of our suppliers. This 2018 report shows 
how our corporate responsibility efforts align with 
the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs), a globally recognized platform for advancing 
sustainability in the public and private sectors.
Responsibility Governance
Responsibility at Amgen is governed at the highest 
levels. Our executive leadership reports our progress 
to the Corporate Responsibility and Compliance 
Committee (CRCC) of our board of directors. The 
CRCC assists the board in overseeing Amgen’s 
activities in the areas of corporate responsibility 
and compliance. In 2018, a new, executive-level 
governance council was established at Amgen to 
oversee the continuing evolution and enhancement of our approach to corporate responsibility. This 
council, chaired by the senior vice president of 
Corporate Affairs, is designed to ensure that executive 
management is informed and involved in the 
implementation of corporate responsibility.   
Engaging With Stakeholders
Amgen strives to continuously align its responsibility 
programs with the expectations of internal and external 
stakeholders. In particular, we focus on those issues 
that are considered to be important priorities for 
stakeholders and that align with Amgen’s mission, 
values and strategy. 
Amgen uses a variety of ways to gauge stakeholder 
interests, including direct engagement with stakeholders, 
periodic stakeholder assessments and guidance 
from relevant frameworks. These frameworks include 
the UN Global Compact, SDGs and Sustainability 
Accounting Standards Board standards, as well as 
external sustainability ratings, such as the Dow Jones 
Sustainability Index and CDP (formerly known as Carbon 
Disclosure Project), since they represent the perspectives 
of key stakeholders. Specific examples of engaging 
with external stakeholders, including our second annual 
Stakeholder Summit, can be found throughout this report. 
The results of our most recent stakeholder perspective 
assessment can be found in Reporting and Metrics  in 
Responsibility on www.amgen.com. COMMITMENT
Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report    8BUSINESS ETHICS ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE ACCESS TO MEDICINE COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Our Commitment to Patients
Our commitment to patients extends beyond delivering 
innovative medicines to creating healthcare solutions 
for those we serve. It is also reflected in the following 
areas of focus:
•  Helping patients get access to the medicines  
they need— see the Access to Medicine   
section of this report
• Investing in Research
• Increasing the Value of Healthcare
• Listening to the Voice of the Patient
• Ensuring Global Patient Safety 
Amgen invests heavily in research and development 
in search of innovative medicines and tools that may 
provide breakthrough opportunities for medical needs 
that are currently unmet. We focus on medicines 
made using biotechnology, and we aim for medicines 
that make a difference in patients’ lives. We are 
committed to breakthrough medicines and growing our 
understanding of human genetics, which we believe 
can meaningfully aid our ability to discover and deliver 
medicine to control hard-to-treat diseases.Our efforts to increase the value of  
healthcare include:
•  Revolutionizing the way that biologic medicines 
can be manufactured through our next-generation 
biomanufacturing technology, making the process 
faster and less expensive and reducing our 
environmental footprint
•  Building partnerships that share accountability for 
health results within the healthcare system and 
providing options, such as linking the price of our 
medicines to their performance 
•  Continuing to develop “biosimilars”— high-quality,  
more affordable versions of existing biologic  
medicines— to treat inflammatory disease and  
certain types of cancer
We continue to listen to the voice of the patient 
and integrate it into our processes. In October of 
this year, Amgen convened a gathering of senior 
leaders from nearly 50 organizations representing 
professional societies, patient advocacy organizations, 
employer groups, insurance companies and industry 
in Washington, D.C., for Amgen’s second annual 
Stakeholder Summit, Elevating the Patient Voice.  
These kinds of interactions ensure that we can  integrate the perspectives of diverse external 
stakeholders into the development and execution  
of corporate responsibility. 
We are dedicated to patient safety. The Global Patient 
Safety department serves patients by monitoring 
the safety of Amgen products (medicine, devices 
and combination products) through the science of 
pharmacovigilance. Pharmacovigilance refers to the 
monitoring, reviewing, evaluating and communicating of 
information on the safety of pharmaceutical products.COMMITMENT
COMMITMENT
FOR MORE INFORMATION 
Visit Amgen’s Commitment to Patients   
on www.amgen.com.Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report    9BUSINESS ETHICS ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE ACCESS TO MEDICINE COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
The Community section of this 
report highlights how the Amgen 
Foundation’s numerous educational 
programs support fulfillment of 
SDG 4: Quality Education— Ensure 
Inclusive and Quality Education 
for All and Promote Lifelong Learning. The ongoing 
global expansion of the Amgen Foundation’s innovative 
educational programs is something of which we are 
particularly proud. 
Amgen’s mission is in alignment 
with SDG 3: Good Health and 
Well-Being. See the Access to 
Medicine section of this report to 
read about how we try to ensure 
that as many patients as possible 
benefit from our medicines— including a significant 
donation of medicine that will benefit patients in  
18 low- and middle-income countries.Amgen’s long-term, sustained 
progress toward our Environmental 
Sustainability goals demonstrates 
our support for SDG 12: 
Responsible Consumption and 
Production. The Environmental 
Sustainability section of this report describes how we 
have significantly reduced the amount of waste and 
carbon emissions produced from our operations while 
simultaneously reducing the amount of energy and 
water used.
Innovation is core to Amgen’s 
business, meaning a great deal 
of what we do aligns with SDG 
9: Industry, Innovation and 
Infrastructure. In addition to our 
innovative medicines, Amgen 
applies innovation to our manufacturing, pricing and 
partnerships. With regards to manufacturing, in 2018 
Amgen broke ground on our second next-generation 
manufacturing facility, which employs technology that 
significantly reduces construction time, costs, physical 
footprint and environmental impacts.Much of what Amgen 
accomplishes in corporate 
responsibility is through 
partnerships that align well with 
SDG 17: Partnerships for the 
Goals. In the Access to Medicine 
section of this report, you can read about the wide 
range of partnerships we utilize to help improve access 
to our medicines —from the CDC Foundation to the 
Union for International Cancer Control.COMMITMENTCOMMITMENT
The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
are a globally recognized framework for advancing 
sustainability in the public and private sectors. They 
are designed for participation by many different 
stakeholders, including countries, communities, 
businesses and organizations, who support the goals 
in a variety of ways to tackle global challenges in 
economic, social and environmental dimensions. 
Much of Amgen’s approach to responsibility is aligned 
with the SDGs and helps support their achievement. 
Throughout this report, you’ll see SDG icons to signal 
how our current actions in an area align with the SDG 
framework. We are currently focusing on alignment  
with five SDGs. 
Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report    10BUSINESS ETHICS ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Amgen’s medicines can make a profound difference 
in the lives of patients with serious illnesses— and 
we believe patients should have access to them. We 
have made progress reaching patients in geographies 
that typically have limited access to biologic 
medicines through our partnerships, donations and 
affordability programs. In 2018, in alignment with our 
mission to serve patients, we continued to evolve 
our approach by advancing our local partnerships, 
enhancing programs that strengthen health systems 
and addressing affordability through innovation.
Our multifaceted Access to Medicine approach 
encompasses four key areas of activity:
• Pricing and Patient Support
• Health System Strengthening 
• Product Donations
• R&D, Manufacturing and DistributionPricing and Patient Support
We operate several programs to support patients who 
may not otherwise be able to afford our medicines.
 
Flexible Pricing and Contracting 
The prices of our medicines reflect their ability to 
reduce the burden of disease for individuals and 
society, but we also recognize that affordability can 
present challenges to patients accessing our valuable 
medicines, particularly in low- and middle-income 
countries (LMICs). To improve the accessibility and 
affordability of our products, Amgen adopts a flexible 
approach to pricing to ensure our prices reflect local 
socioeconomic conditions and ability to pay while also 
using innovative contracting solutions that tie costs 
incurred directly to outcomes achieved.  
Patient Assistance Programs
Amgen Safety Net Foundation (ASNF) is an 
independent nonprofit patient assistance program 
established in 2001, sponsored by Amgen. ASNF was 
designed to assist patients who have a financial need 
and are uninsured, or the insurance plan excludes the 
Amgen medicine. It has provided nearly $5.5 billion 
of support to patients in the United States since 2008. 
In addition to the ASNF, Amgen supports 12 patient 
access programs outside the United States, including 
in Egypt, Thailand and China, designed to help 
clinically and financially eligible patients obtain  
the drugs they need.ACCESS TO MEDICINE 
ACCESS TO MEDICINE Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report    11BUSINESS ETHICS ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE ACCESS TO MEDICINE COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Health System Strengthening   
Amgen is dedicated to working with global,  
regional and local stakeholders to improve 
healthcare systems in LMICs. We help strengthen 
health systems by creating partnerships and 
programs, deploying patient support initiatives 
and supporting science education for the next 
generation of health innovators. 
Partnerships and Programs to Support
Healthcare Systems
Our health system strengthening programs seek  
to build healthcare capabilities to enhance the way 
healthcare can be delivered and improve patient 
outcomes. Programs include collaborations with 
providers, diagnostic companies, medical societies, 
digital technology companies, academia, payers 
and others. Including the progress made in 2018, 
we are currently implementing programs in 36 
countries, including Bulgaria, Colombia, Cuba, 
India, Mexico and Thailand. 
Example programs include:
•  Fracture Care Coordination programs to provide 
the care required to prevent additional fractures  
in patients who recently broke a bone•  An expanded collaboration in 2018 with the Union 
for International Cancer Control to support major 
cities in the design, planning and implementation 
of integrated cancer treatment solutions
•  An Infarct Code program—a partnership with a 
Mexican state institution to increase diagnosis and 
treatment of patients with cardiovascular disease 
following a cardiovascular event
•  Cardiovascular Risk Factors Research 
Partnership—a collaboration with the CDC 
Foundation and Oxford University to sponsor 
researchers to conduct observational studies 
on cardiovascular epidemiology in Cuba, India, 
Mexico and Russia and advance the availability 
of a point-of-care testing device to improve lipid 
testing in over 25 countries
Patient Programs and Education
Amgen uses patient support programs to help 
patients with their disease journey. Such programs 
can include patient education on their disease, 
administration support of and adherence to 
treatment, managing side effects and navigating 
reimbursement processes. We also provide 
transportation assistance outside of the United 
States to medical appointments for mobility-
impaired patients in certain countries. These programs are in place in countries including Brazil, 
Colombia, Mexico, Peru and South Africa. In 2018, 
Amgen partnered with the Hellenic Society of 
Hematology to provide air transportation support  
for patients living on 17 remote islands in Greece  
to receive treatment at mainland medical centers  
of excellence. 
Science Education
The Amgen Foundation is dedicated to advancing 
excellence in science education to inspire the 
next generation of innovators and has donated 
nearly $150 million to advancing science education 
globally. The Amgen Foundation’s initiatives to 
improve access to science education globally 
include LabXchange, a partnership with Harvard 
University, and our collaboration with the Khan  
Academy. See the Community section of this report 
for more information on Amgen’s efforts to advance  
science education. ACCESS TO MEDICINE
ACCESS TO MEDICINE Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report    12BUSINESS ETHICS ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE ACCESS TO MEDICINE COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Product Donations
We believe that donations of medicine can play 
a role in meeting an immediate need for patients 
in LMICs who cannot currently afford biologic 
medicines. We are therefore committed to finding 
opportunities to partner with organizations that can 
meet the unique challenges of distributing and 
delivering donated biologic medicines in parts of 
the world with limited access to these medicines.  
R&D, Manufacturing and Distribution
The growing burden of noncommunicable 
diseases is a pressing global health issue. Amgen 
medicines and drug candidates in research address 
noncommunicable disease, such as cancer, 
cardiovascular disease, osteoporosis, migraines 
and kidney disease with high prevalence in LMICs.
Investment in Biosimilars: Amgen is a leader in 
developing and manufacturing biosimilars that will 
enable us to provide more affordable treatment 
options for patients around the world suffering 
from certain types of cancers, inflammatory 
conditions or rare genetic disorders. Three of our 
biosimilar medicines are listed on the World Health 
Organization’s Model List of Essential Medicines, demonstrating alignment with well-established 
global health needs. Recognizing the importance 
of regulatory systems to review biosimilar products, 
Amgen is working closely with a wide range of 
stakeholders to help middle-income countries 
establish regulatory frameworks to evaluate 
biosimilars and enable safe use of these potentially 
cost-saving therapies. 
Access to Investigational Medicines: We have a 
process in place to provide access to therapeutics 
that are still in clinical trials to patients with serious 
diseases for which no alternate therapy exists.  
More information can be found on www.amgen.com. 
In 2018, through a corporate donation, Amgen 
contributed $2 million to the Lazarex Cancer 
Foundation’s IMPACT (IMproving Patient Access  
to Cancer Clinical Trials) program, which is focused 
on improving patient enrollment, retention, minority 
participation and equitable access in oncology trials.ACCESS TO MEDICINEACCESS TO MEDICINE 
In 2018, Amgen donated US $93 million of NEUPOGEN® 
(filgrastim), Neulasta® (pegfilgrastim) and Vectibix® 
(panitumumab) to Direct Relief to serve approximately 7,400 
low-income patients. Direct Relief distributes the medicines 
through a network of high-quality cancer hospitals and 
clinics across 18 low- and middle-income countries, 
including African countries such as Ethiopia, Ghana,  
Malawi, Senegal, Tanzania and Uganda.
“Direct Relief is deeply appreciative to Amgen for  
its leadership and initiative in providing critical treatments 
to underserved cancer patients globally,” said Thomas 
Tighe, president and chief executive officer of Direct Relief. 
“Cancer patients who would otherwise not be able to access 
many important therapies will be able to receive these  
advanced biologic medicines.”PRODUCT DONATIONS TO SUPPORT 
CANCER CARE IN 18 COUNTRIES
TO LEARN MORE 
about our biosimilars program, visit 
www.amgenbiosimilars.com.
Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report    13BUSINESS ETHICS ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE ACCESS TO MEDICINE COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Product Distribution
Product distribution can be challenging in LMICs 
that have less developed infrastructure. To 
reach patients in such countries, Amgen uses 
co-marketing agreements and distributors. Amgen 
is committed to improve mechanisms for distribution 
to make products available on a worldwide basis for 
patients suffering from grievous illness. Amgen also 
partners with nonprofit organizations, such as Direct 
Relief, to reach patients through product donations, 
an example being our 2018 donation for products 
serving cancer care highlighted in this section. 
When working with these partners, we support them 
in developing the capabilities needed to ensure that 
the transport, handling and administration of these 
biologic medicines will maintain the quality needed 
for treatment of patients.
FOR MORE INFORMATION 
on Amgen’s Access to Medicine approach and the many  
ways we serve patients, please see Access to Medicine ,
Our Approach to Pricing,  Access and Affordability and 
Amgen’s Commitment to Patients on www.amgen.com. ACCESS TO MEDICINEACCESS TO MEDICINE 
“Reaching patients around the world who can 
benefit from our therapies and enabling patient 
access to our products are integral components  
of Amgen’s mission and long-term strategy. ”
—CLAES HORNSTRAND, VICE PRESIDENT, GLOBAL VALUE, ACCESS AND POLICY1 Amgen Proprietary—Internal Use Only 
Amgen has numerous programs to help patients access our medicines who otherwise couldn’t afford them. This map specifically 
shows Amgen’s programs to improve access to our medicines in certain low- and middle-income countries. Amgen Access to Medicine Programs in Low- and Middle-Income Countries
Product Donations
Armenia, Cambodia, Dominican Republic, Ghana, Honduras, India, Jamaica, 
Malawi, Nepal, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Paraguay, Senegal, Tanzania, Uganda
R&D, Manufacturing and Distribution
Algeria, Brazil, Cambodia, Colombia, Egypt, Jordan, Indonesia, Iran, Lebanon, 
Malaysia, Morocco, Myanmar, Philippines, Thailand, Tunisia, VietnamPricing and Patient Support
China, Egypt, Thailand
Health System Strengthening
Brazil, Bulgaria, Colombia, Cuba, India,  
Mexico, Peru, Romania, Thailand
Low- and Middle-Income Countries (with no programs) High-Income Countries (programs not mapped)Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report    14BUSINESS ETHICS ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE ACCESS TO MEDICINE COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Doing the right thing is central to our mission to serve 
patients. At Amgen, doing the right thing means 
more than just following our compliance policies. 
It also means truly living the Amgen values, which 
include being ethical, trusting and respecting each 
other, ensuring quality and being science-based. It’s 
a privilege to work at a company focused on helping 
patients with serious diseases, and this is a privilege 
we do not take lightly. Our business is built on an 
unwavering commitment to integrity and compliance, 
which is demonstrated by our staff members every 
day through their words, decisions and actions.
Compliance Governance
Our ethical culture starts at the highest levels 
of leadership and is integrated at every level of 
our business. To guide us, Amgen has created a 
tiered compliance governance structure, to ensure 
a company-wide commitment to compliance. 
The Corporate Responsibility and Compliance 
Committee (CRCC) of the board of directors has 
ultimate oversight for the company’s compliance 
program. An internal Compliance Committee, 
chaired by Amgen’s chairman and chief executive 
officer and comprised of Amgen’s Operating Team, 
ensures Amgen’s steadfast culture of compliance 
and business ethics are the foundation of the 
company’s strategy, goals and objectives.  This Compliance Committee oversees the 
operations of a Compliance Council and ensures 
that compliance performance is part of executive 
management reviews. The Compliance Council, 
chaired by the chief compliance officer, is a 
cross-functional body that analyzes compliance 
obligations and activities, implements program 
improvements and provides information to the 
CRCC. The Compliance Council is comprised of 
senior level compliance professionals who are 
selected by the Compliance Committee to represent 
each functional area. The chief compliance 
officer, who reports directly to Amgen’s chairman 
and chief executive officer and who oversees 
Amgen’s Worldwide Compliance & Business Ethics 
Program, oversees the ongoing operations of the 
company’s Compliance program and reports on the 
effectiveness of the program to the CRCC.
Supporting and Reinforcing Our Compliance Culture
As Bob Bradway, our chairman and chief executive 
officer, reminds us, conducting ourselves in 
principled ways is core to our mission. There are no 
shortcuts. The Worldwide Compliance & Business 
Ethics Program facilitates Amgen’s success by 
diligently partnering with functions across our 
business to create effective solutions within the 
framework of regulatory requirements in order to 
provide clear and practical rules and guidelines.Amgen provides a framework for successful 
implementation of its compliance program based on 
core elements from the OIG Compliance Program  
Guidance for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers, such 
as a designated compliance officer and compliance 
committee, written policies and procedures and 
providing effective training and education. We 
augment these elements with additional tenets 
we believe to be important, such as elevating 
compliance leadership to be an integral part  
of executive performance reviews.
These tenets are put into action through Amgen’s 
Code of Conduct and Business Conduct Hotline, 
compliance websites and training courses, Amgen’s 
compliance policies, guidance from managers 
and dedicated compliance professionals, internal 
monitoring and auditing and investigating detected 
problems, undertaking corrective actions and 
applying disciplinary measures where appropriate. BUSINESS ETHICSBUSINESS ETHICS
FOR MORE INFORMATION 
Visit Business Ethics on www.amgen.com.Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report    15BUSINESS ETHICS ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE ACCESS TO MEDICINE COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Promoting Ethical Business Practices
At Amgen, we understand that promoting a  
culture of compliance and ethical operations is  
a continuous process. So, in addition to our  
Policies, Practices and Disclosures, we  
implement a wide range of activities and  
programs to promote ethical business practices. 
In 2018, highlights of those activities included:
•  Code of Conduct training completion by 100%  
of staff 
•  Global Ethics & Compliance Declaration Program, 
which calls for leaders in selected roles to execute 
an ethics and compliance engagement plan and 
sign an annual declaration •  Internal communications on business ethics, 
including an Ethics Quarterly Newsletter, targeted 
communications campaign on the topic of 
“Speaking Up” and internal Amgen portal on  
Ethical Leadership
•  Manager trainings on special responsibilities  
for promoting and supporting ethical and  
compliant conduct
•  Periodic surveys to measure employee 
perceptions of the compliance program  
and ethical culture
These activities serve to reinforce Amgen’s 
commitment to operating in a compliant and  
ethical manner.BUSINESS ETHICS
FOR MORE INFORMATION 
Visit How We Operate on www.amgen.com.“At Amgen, maintaining a culture of integrity 
and ethics is critical to the success of our 
business. Our commitment to these values, as 
well as our focus on serving patients, ensures 
we make sound decisions that fulfill our 
responsibilities. ”  
—CYNTHIA M. PATTON, SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF COMPLIANCE OFFICER
BUSINESS ETHICSAmgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report    16BUSINESS ETHICS ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE ACCESS TO MEDICINE COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Supplier Sustainability and Supplier Diversity
As part of Amgen’s commitment to sustainability 
and diversity, we require our suppliers to conduct 
their business in alignment with our mission and 
values. Amgen’s Supplier Sustainability Program 
is not only focused on suppliers’ commitment 
to quality, cost and reliability but also on a wide 
range of sustainability and social responsibility 
considerations, such as business ethics, labor  
and human rights and environmental impacts. 
Amgen, through a third-party service, annually 
assesses and monitors sustainability performance 
of key suppliers and continues to expand the 
program, reflecting our global growth. This 
annual assessment provides Amgen insights 
into our suppliers’ sustainability-related activities 
and facilitates a dialogue with suppliers about 
opportunities to further enhance or focus their 
sustainability activities. 
In the area of conflict minerals, Amgen will continue 
to seek to identify, reduce and ultimately eliminate 
the use of conflict minerals—those that directly or 
indirectly finance or benefit armed groups in the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo and surrounding 
countries—in its products. The identification of 
potential use of conflict minerals in our supply chain  
is integrated into our Supplier Sustainability Program.Amgen also has a Supplier Diversity Program that 
is designed to provide opportunities to small and 
diverse businesses. One of the key efforts within our 
Supplier Diversity Program is participation in events 
that are designed as a platform for connecting 
corporations with small and diverse businesses. 
Amgen is a corporate member of various national 
and local organizations that support supplier 
diversity, such as the National Minority Supplier 
Development Council (NMSDC), the Women’s 
Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC), 
Diversity Alliance for Science (DA4S), Diversity:  
IN and National LGBT Chamber of Commerce 
(NGLCC). Supplier Diversity professionals at Amgen 
are actively serving on the board of directors 
and various committees of the above-mentioned 
organizations. Amgen’s Supplier Diversity Program 
leader Jinus Moghbeli Pashai is the current 
president of Diversity Alliance for Science and 
was recognized as the Spirit of Diversity Award 
recipient by Southern California Minority Supplier 
Development Council (SCMSDC) in 2018.   
FOR MORE INFORMATION 
Visit Supplier Sustainability in Responsibility on 
www.amgen.com.
BUSINESS ETHICSBUSINESS ETHICSAmgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report    17BUSINESS ETHICS ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE ACCESS TO MEDICINE COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Amgen is a values-based company, engaged in 
discovering and developing medicines for patients 
with serious illnesses. By extension, Amgen, along 
with our philanthropic arm the Amgen Foundation, 
contributes to the greater good in communities  
around the world. 
The Amgen Foundation, the main channel for Amgen’s 
corporate philanthropy efforts, has helped to make 
the excitement of the sciences, the promise of 
science, technology, engineering and mathematics 
(STEM) education and the provision of essential 
social services more accessible to members of 
our communities. To date, the Foundation has 
contributed more than $300 million to local, regional 
and international nonprofit organizations that reflect 
Amgen’s core values and complement the company’s 
dedication to positively impacting lives.
 
Support of Science Education
The Amgen Foundation is primarily focused on inspiring 
the scientists of tomorrow and advancing scientific 
literacy. The Foundation advances this vision through 
a number of hands-on and virtual experiences for 
students and teachers. The Foundation is especially 
committed to reaching diverse and underserved 
populations that might not otherwise have access to scientific education and resources. The following 
are highlights of existing and new science education 
programs for 2018:
•  The Amgen Foundation became the founding sponsor 
of the new LabXchange online platform, awarding 
$6.5 million to Harvard University to develop, launch 
and grow this platform that increases student  
access to online lab-based learning. Amgen 
scientists will play key advisory roles to enhance the 
impact of the platform with a virtual lab that integrates 
dynamic experimental simulations with background 
curriculum and social networking.
•  The Amgen Scholars Program expanded with 
a new four-year, $21 million commitment, bringing 
the program to a total of 24 elite institutions across 
the United States, Europe, Asia and, for the first 
time, Australia and Canada. Through a 16-year, $74 
million commitment from the Amgen Foundation, 
Amgen Scholars enables young scientists from 
across the globe to enage in cutting-edge research 
experiences and learn more about biotechnology and 
drug discovery. For the past two years, 30 percent 
of Amgen Scholars have self-reported as being Pell 
Grant recipients.  
•  The Amgen Biotech Experience, now available 
in 20 regions around the world, has reached nearly 
700,000 students, 1,500 teachers and 850 schools since its inception almost 30 years ago. The program 
empowers teachers to bring biotechnology into their 
classrooms by providing hands-on molecular biology 
curricula, tools and professional development training. 
•  Nearly 200 educators participated in an Amgen 
Foundation–sponsored webinar from Khan 
Academy. As a Science Partner of Khan Academy, 
the Amgen Foundation has provided $3.7 million in 
funding to date, contributing to the creation of more 
than 300 videos, 123 deep practice exercises and 
243 articles on the topic of biology. The free, online 
resource provides access to educational content 
in multiple subjects, including biology, to 70 million 
users across more than 190 countries. COMMUNITYCOMMUNITY
Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report    18BUSINESS ETHICS ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE ACCESS TO MEDICINE COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
•  The Amgen Foundation provided a $100K grant to 
advance STEM priorities for Teach For All network 
partners in Brazil, Colombia and Mexico. Teach For All 
is a global network of 48 independent, locally led and 
governed partner organizations that each work to recruit 
and develop promising future leaders to teach in their 
nations’ under-resourced schools and communities.
•  Along with the Carnegie Corporation of New York, the 
Amgen Foundation sponsored a major new National  
Academies report on how investigation and design can 
improve student learning in science and engineering.
Details of these and other Amgen Foundation–
sponsored programs that improve access to  
science education around the world can be  
found on www.amgeninspires.org.Supporting Communities Around the World  
In addition to the strategic science education programs 
developed and implemented by the Amgen Foundation, 
Amgen and Amgen staff contribute to a variety of 
charitable organizations and efforts throughout the world. 
A major highlight of Amgen’s charitable giving in 2018 
was a joint initiative in which we donated $93 million 
worth of Amgen cancer treatments and supportive care 
medicines for distribution to patients in 18 developing 
countries through the nonprofit organization Direct 
Relief. This is in addition to the programs Amgen 
provides to support access to our medicines for 
clinically and financially eligible patients in the United 
States (through the Amgen Safety Net Foundation)  
and abroad. See the Access to Medicine section  
for more information on these efforts.  The Amgen Foundation provides programs and 
resources to empower individual Amgen staff in their 
charitable giving. These programs include Amgen 
Volunteers, through which volunteering by staff in the 
United States and Puerto Rico triggers a donation from 
the Amgen Foundation, a Matching Gifts Program, 
which provides a 1:1 match for staff donations to 
eligible nonprofit organizations from $50 up to $20,000 
annually per staff member, and Amgen Impact Day, 
which gives all full- and part-time regular active staff 
members up to eight hours of paid time off per calendar 
year to volunteer in support of an effort of their choice. 
Staff donations plus matching funds from the Amgen 
Foundation totaled $4 million in 2018. Staff volunteered 
more than 19,000 recorded hours overall in 2018. COMMUNITYCOMMUNITY
7 MILLION +
STUDENTS
reached through compelling 
hands-on and virtual 
experiences in science
Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report    19BUSINESS ETHICS ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE ACCESS TO MEDICINE COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
As a multifaceted, global company, Amgen’s charitable 
giving efforts are numerous and diverse. Some of the many 
and varied global charitable efforts in 2018 included:
•  Support by our site in Canada of the Advanced 
Coronary Treatment Foundation, which has provided 
free, life-saving CPR and defibrillator skills to 4.2 
million youth at 1,790 high schools across the country
•  Collection and donation of aluminum can tabs by staff 
at our Singapore manufacturing site to be made into 
prosthetic limbs by the Prostheses Foundation  
of H.R.H. the Princess Mother , an NGO that collects 
and processes these tabs in combination with other 
strong metals to produce prosthetic legs that are 
provided to amputees of all races and religions free  
of charge 
•  Nearly 100 percent participation by staff at our 
manufacturing site in Dun Laoghaire, Ireland, in  
their Helping Hands staff philanthropy program 
•  A 500-kilometer bike ride from London to Paris by  
15 dedicated riders from our Dublin, Uxbridge  
and Cambridge offices over four days in September, 
raising more than £25,000 for myeloma researchWe were proud to be recognized with the Corporate 
Social Responsibility Program of the Year award for  
a second year in a row by the Ireland Pharma  
Industry organization.
Responding to Crisis and Recovering From Disasters
2018 was a year that tested the resolve of many Amgen 
staff. The community of our global headquarters, 
Thousand Oaks, California, was impacted with a mass 
shooting at a local establishment and with fires that 
erupted in the surrounding hills and burned for many 
days. Amgen’s strong and supportive culture shone 
through as staff rose in support of the Thousand 
Oaks community. 
Many staff gave blood to local hospitals and wrote 
hundreds of cards and notes to victims of disaster, 
both within the company and in the community. Some 
staff, trained in emergency first response, served as 
volunteers in local areas impacted by the fires. 
After the shooting tragedy, the Amgen Foundation 
made a direct donation of $250,000 to the Ventura 
County Community Foundation for the Conejo Valley 
Victims Fund to support the victims, families and organizations providing help. The Amgen Foundation 
then pledged $500,000 to support victims of the local 
wildfires in Ventura and Los Angeles counties. Staff 
made additional donations through the Amgen Disaster 
Relief program totaling nearly $105,000 of support in 
response to these tragic circumstances, which were 
also matched by the Amgen Foundation’s Disaster 
Relief Matching Gifts program.COMMUNITYCOMMUNITY
Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report    20BUSINESS ETHICS ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE ACCESS TO MEDICINE COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Puerto Rico Se Levanta: Puerto Rico Rises
In 2018, Puerto Rico, home to Amgen’s largest 
manufacturing facility, continued its slow recovery 
from Hurricane Maria, which devastated the island in 
the fall of 2017. Directly following the disaster, Amgen 
committed $3 million in immediate relief, which went 
to the International Medical Corps, Direct Relief, 
Americares, the CDC Foundation, the Puerto Rico 
Community Foundation and the American Kidney  
Fund. Amgen also committed up to $2 million to 
support recovery efforts. 
In 2018, Amgen Foundation representatives met with 
members of the Puerto Rican government to determine 
the most strategic and impactful ways to focus its  
$2 million commitment to recovery and rebuilding 
in Puerto Rico. Through this coordinated work, 
the Foundation directed the first $1 million toward 
the reconstruction of educational institutions in 
Amgen’s hometown of Juncos: the Juana Sánchez 
Montessori School, Roberto Silva School and 
Pedro Bosh School. The Foundation also provided a 
grant to the Mayagüez and Humacao campuses of 
the University of Puerto Rico to rebuild and improve 
student science laboratories and academic facilities. The Foundation will continue this strategic process 
to distribute the remaining dedicated funds toward 
recovery efforts.
The hurricane had lasting impacts not only to major 
institutions in Puerto Rico but also to staff, their families 
and their communities. Staff at our site in Juncos along 
with Amgen’s Government Affairs team coordinated a 
community relief effort in partnership with SOMOS, Inc. 
and members of the New York State Assembly that 
helped more than 40 families in the La Hormiga sector, 
an isolated area in Juncos that was severely impacted 
by the hurricane. Amgen staff and their family members 
made an especially strong showing for the International 
Coastal Cleanup volunteering event in September. 
“Amgen’s philanthropic efforts have expanded 
along with the company’s growing presence 
around the world. We are proud to bring the 
promise of science education and numerous 
community support programs to more 
people. ”
—EDUARDO CETLIN, PRESIDENT AMGEN FOUNDATION AND HEAD OF  
PHILANTHROPY  COMMUNITY
COMMUNITYAmgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report    21BUSINESS ETHICS ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE ACCESS TO MEDICINE COMMUNITY COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENT
At Amgen, we have a strong commitment to 
environmentally sustainable operations and have  
met three of our 2020 targets ahead of schedule.  
The 2020 targets are our second set of  
environmental targets since 2008. We integrate 
sustainable practices throughout our business in 
alignment with our 2020 Environmental Sustainability 
Plan. Our staff work to reduce Amgen’s environmental 
footprint through strategic thinking, technology and 
sustainable practices. We have demonstrated that 
environmentally sustainable operations benefit our 
overall operations. Our Targets
We set our 2020 environmental targets by establishing 
reduction quantities based on our 2012 baseline 
performance. We have created a portfolio of projects 
and initiatives that we implement to achieve the 
targeted reductions. We track progress toward our 
targets through verified results from these improvement 
projects, without influence from growth or contraction 
in our business. With achievement of all of our 2020 
targets on the horizon, in 2018 we began preparing  
for our next set of environmental targets.
Progress Through 2018 2020 Target
Waste  Reduce 1,490 metric tons (MT) of waste  
to landfill or incineration 35% of 2012 baseline
Water Reduce 269,000 cubic meters (CM)
10% of 2012 baselineCarbon Reduce 3,000 metric tons (MT) of fleet carbon
20% of 2012 baseline
Carbon Reduce 38,500 metric tons (MT) of facility carbon 
10% of 2012 baseline42,000 MT
1,300 MT3,200 MT
0%        20%              40%              60%               80%        100%   278,000 CM 
2012 Baseline 2020 TargetENVIRONMENT
Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report    22BUSINESS ETHICS ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE ACCESS TO MEDICINE COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Reducing Carbon Through Energy Conservation
Amgen implements a comprehensive carbon reduction 
strategy that encompasses strategic elimination of 
energy use, increasing energy efficiency and increasing 
the proportion of energy used from renewable and 
alternative sources. We complete projects and 
incorporate innovations that provide substantial returns 
for both energy savings and carbon reduction across 
our network of facilities around the world. We have 
realized savings of $30 million in operating costs 
annually and reduced carbon emissions by 126,000 
metric tons (MT), or 30 percent, from 2007 through 
2018, by implementing energy conservation and 
carbon reduction projects. In addition to operations-based projects, we also take steps to reduce carbon 
output from our business by encouraging alternative 
methods of commuting to work, such as carpooling 
and providing electric vehicle charging stations at 
some facilities. At the end of 2018, we had exceeded 
our 2020 carbon targets for fleet vehicles and facility 
operations. We are continuing to work through our 
portfolio of identified carbon reduction opportunities 
for 2019 as we finalize our next generation of 
environmental targets.
Highlights of our energy and carbon program in  
2018 include:•  Expansion of our smart and integrated facility 
monitoring system to six Amgen sites. This award-
winning system has helped our engineers identify 
conservation opportunities that reduced 83,000 
gigajoules (GJ) of energy, reduced 5,400 MT of  
carbon and saved $1.3 million.   
•  Installation of latest-generation, high-efficiency chillers 
at our site in Ireland are conserving 2,700 GJ of 
energy per year and reducing 315 MT of carbon. 
•  Optimization of the heating, ventilation and air 
conditioning system at our laboratories in San Francisco 
resulted in annualized savings of 28,600 GJ of energy 
and 1,300 MT of carbon and saved $418,000.
Carbon Emissions and Carbon Emissions Reduced Through Conservation Efforts (1,000 MT)  2018 Energy Use by Source (1,000 GJ)Natural Gas
Fossil FuelScope 1 Sources
Scope 2 SourcesDiesel
RenewablesPropane
Nuclear
Nonspecified* Value represents year-over-year,  
cumulative and continuing avoidance.Carbon Emissions
Carbon Emissions Avoided* 
From 2007 Through 2012
Carbon Emissions 
Avoided* 2013+ENVIRONMENT
500
400
300
200
100
014
201536984430
937
17481,01713219
8
201336384
201238584 20
201684
29134
201784
27842
201884
263
200741610
201484
354ENVIRONMENTBUSINESS ETHICS ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE ACCESS TO MEDICINE COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report    23
Conserving a Precious Resource
We strive to conserve water— a vital component in the 
manufacture of our medicines. We have developed 
water-saving practices and strategic projects based 
on assessments of our water use and available 
opportunities for conservation. Our total water use 
company-wide in 2018 decreased from 2017. Water 
conservation projects implemented in 2018 resulted in 
an additional 12,300 cubic meters (CM) of annual water 
reduction to achieve a total reduction in water use of 
278,000 CM since establishing our 2020 targets.  We have reduced annual water usage through projects 
eliminating 964,000 CM, or 29 percent, since 2007. 
As of the end of 2018, we have exceeded our 2020 
target for water conservation. We are continuing to 
work through our portfolio of identified water reduction 
opportunities for 2019 as we finalize our next 
generation of environmental targets.
 
 Highlights of our water conservation program  
in 2018 include:
•  Ongoing use of next-generation biomanufacturing 
technologies that reduce the volume of water required 
to maintain manufacturing equipment and spaces
•  Conservation of approximately 6,000 CM of water per 
year, resulting from a systems cooling tower upgrade
Water Intake and Intake Avoided Through Conservation Efforts (1,000 CM)  * Value represents year-over-year,  
cumulative and continuing avoidance.Water Intake
Water Intake Avoided* 
From 2007 Through 2012
Water Intake 
Avoided* 2013+3,5004,000
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0142
20152,520686
20122,720686203
2016686
2,351266
2017686
2,320278
2018686
2,093
20073,28636
2014686
2,487ENVIRONMENT
19
20132,725686
ENVIRONMENTBUSINESS ETHICS ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE ACCESS TO MEDICINE COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report    24
Increasing Recycling, Reducing Waste
We strive to recycle and eliminate waste within the 
constraints of our regulated biopharmaceutical 
business and availability of municipal services. Our staff 
have identified and implemented innovative, creative 
ways to reduce and eliminate waste, including practices 
to increase recycling of plastics used in manufacturing, 
changing packaging and shipping systems and 
increasing composting. Total waste generation 
company-wide decreased slightly in 2018 compared 
with 2017. Waste reduction projects implemented in 
2018 resulted in an additional 259 metric tons (MT) of annual waste reduction to achieve a total of 1,297 MT 
since establishing our 2020 targets. We have reduced 
annual waste generation through projects eliminating 
2,400 MT, or 24 percent, since 2007.
Highlights of our waste reduction and recycling 
program for 2018 include:  
•  Expansion of our program to recycle plastics  
used in labs and manufacturing at our Cambridge, 
Massachusetts, research facility. Overall, this 
program, in place at three of our sites, diverted 468 
MT of these plastics from the landfill and repurposed them for industrial uses, including benches in use at 
these sites. 
•  In 2018, our use of reusable packaging systems 
reduced solid waste by 98 percent compared to 
using disposable packaging systems associated with 
our clinical shipments. While this does not directly 
impact Amgen’s waste generation, it does help to 
reduce waste generated at locations where these 
medicines are shipped.
Routine Waste by Waste Hierarchy (MT)Recycled, Composted 
and Reused
DisposedWaste Reduced* from 
2007 Through 2012Waste Reduced* 
from 2013+ENVIRONMENT
100%
90%
80%
70%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0
20124,2564,7621,094320
20134,2874,4931,094688
20154,8195,2351,094850
20161,094
5,517
4,8141038
20171,094
4,790
5,0671297
20181,094
4,625
5,016
20076,6043,542441
20144,5011,094
4,429
* Value represents year-over-year,  
cumulative and continuing avoidance.
ENVIRONMENTBUSINESS ETHICS ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE ACCESS TO MEDICINE COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report    25
Sustainable by Design 
In line with our 2020 Environmental Sustainability Plan, 
we’ve integrated environmentally sustainable practices 
throughout our complex, global business. 
Data Science Approach to Energy  
Conservation Evolves  
Amgen is a pioneer in our industry in the use of a 
data collection and monitoring system to assess 
performance of the utilities that consume the most 
energy in our buildings. This system, an Association 
of Energy Engineers 2017 Energy Project of the Year 
award winner, allows us to collect and scan hundreds 
of thousands of data points from utilities, such as 
heating, ventilation and air conditioning. This form of 
artificial intelligence helps us spot inefficiencies and 
problems with utilities and identify opportunities to 
make fixes and improvements that lead to large energy, 
water and financial savings. In implementation since 
2016, the longer we use this system, the more we 
learn. The opportunities we have identified through 
2018 have resulted in conservation of 189,000 
gigajoules of energy and reductions of 12,000  
metric tons of carbon. A Reusable Shipping Solution for Amgen’s  
Precious Cargo
Amgen medicines are precious cargo that require 
specialized packaging to maintain specific temperatures 
and product quality when they are shipped for 
distribution to patients. To create superior temperature 
controls and to reduce packaging waste from 
disposable packaging systems, Amgen implemented a 
system using reusable packaging cubes. These durable 
systems— in use in more than 90 percent of our clinical 
network and in 5 percent of our commercial network 
as of the end of 2018— can be reused multiple times, 
which makes them far more environmentally friendly. 
In 2018, through this innovative approach, Amgen 
reduced solid waste that would have formerly been 
generated at locations receiving the medicine. 
Collaborating With the Community  
to Expand Composting
In 2018, Amgen stepped up its commitment to 
the practice of composting at its Thousand Oaks, 
California, headquarters. Amgen staff worked with the 
city of Thousand Oaks and the city’s franchise waste 
hauler to evaluate compost infrastructure and expand 
composting services in the community. As a result of 
this collaboration and service expansion, Amgen is evaluating the feasibility of significantly expanding its 
compost program at the Thousand Oaks location. To 
raise awareness about composting among staff, we 
created and installed a demonstration garden and 
compost site where we are composting landscape 
waste and coffee grounds from break rooms for use  
as a soil amendment on adjacent plants and trees.
“I am pleased that we have been able to elevate the 
visibility of sustainability among our Thousand Oaks 
staff and also engage with the city to improve services 
that will help us make greater progress towards our 
environmental targets. We continually search for ways 
to become a more environmentally friendly company,” 
said Margaret Faul, vice president, Drug Product.ENVIRONMENT
ENVIRONMENTAmgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report    26BUSINESS ETHICS ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE ACCESS TO MEDICINE COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Amgen aspires to be the world’s best human 
therapeutics company. In support of this goal, we 
place significant value on fostering and enabling 
growth for staff, both personally and professionally. 
We are committed to providing a safe, healthy, 
innovative and diverse work environment for  
our staff. 
Building a Culture of Diversity and Inclusion
At Amgen, we have long understood the importance 
of creating an environment in which people from 
diverse backgrounds can do great things together. 
Our first product, EPOGEN®, was discovered 
in 1983 by a team led by a young Taiwanese 
immigrant to the United States named Fu-Kuen 
Lin. Our first patent was awarded in 1985 to Dr. 
Margery Nicolson, a trailblazing female scientist 
and researcher, helping to pave the way for 
NEUPOGEN®, Amgen’s second product. Today,  
52 percent of our staff globally are women, and  
35 percent of our staff in the United States  
are minorities. With the firm belief that an environment of inclusion 
fosters innovation and drives our ability to serve 
patients, in 2018 we expanded our approach to 
creating a diverse and inclusive work environment. 
We set new goals and have implemented a strategy 
to leverage our diversity and create a more inclusive 
workplace. Globally, we have prioritized increasing 
the percentage of women in management and 
executive roles. In the United States, we are also 
focused on increasing the percentage of African 
Americans in scientific positions and the percentage 
of African Americans and Hispanics in executive 
director and above roles. In addition, we are looking 
for ways to increase the participation of disabled 
persons and veterans in our workforce.
We have an Executive Diversity & Inclusion 
(D&I) Council that is chaired by our CEO, Bob 
Bradway, and is composed of his direct reports. 
Each member of the Executive D&I Council has a 
sponsorship role with the company’s nine Employee 
Resource Groups (ERGs), in which approximately 
4,000 staff members participate. In 2018, the ERGs 
evolved from a site-based to a global program, with local chapters at Amgen’s sites around the world. 
This new structure is meant to amplify the program’s 
reach among staff across the globe and allow for 
program consistency and scale. 
In addition to our new D&I structure, we reinforced 
our D&I program with a number of panels, 
leadership forums, workshops and small-group 
sessions in 2018 aimed at building bridges, 
increasing communication and broadening 
perspectives. With topics that included “Race in 
the Workplace” and “Courageous Conversations,” 
these forums were intended to raise awareness 
of the importance of diversity and an inclusive 
environment and better integrate diverse people 
and viewpoints at Amgen.  WORKPLACEWORKPLACE
Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report    27BUSINESS ETHICS ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE ACCESS TO MEDICINE COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
A Commitment to Diversity Extends  
Beyond the Workplace
We are also committed to improving equity in 
society, particularly at the intersection of healthcare 
and diversity. In 2018, through a corporate 
donation, Amgen contributed $2 million to the 
Lazarex Cancer Foundation’s IMPACT (IMproving 
Patient Access to Cancer Clinical Trials) program, 
which is focused on improving patient enrollment, 
retention, minority participation and equitable 
access in oncology trials. We are also working 
to bring Science, Technology, Engineering and 
Math (STEM) resources to diverse and low-income 
student populations in the United States and in 
developing nations in the world through online and 
in-the-classroom programs. You can learn more 
about these efforts in the Community and Access  
to Medicine sections of this report. 
“All of us have such an important role to play 
in shaping a culture that shows trust and 
respect for all and demonstrates our true 
belief in the strength we have in our diversity. 
It is through our collective actions, large and 
small, that we will continue to do our best to 
serve patients. ”
— ROBERT A. BRADWAY , CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  Our Culture of Safety
We embrace our culture of safety and, in doing so, 
protect one of our greatest assets—our staff. We 
strive to integrate safety throughout our business 
processes. We are building a culture of reliability 
and resilience based on a foundation of established 
safety management practices supported by the 
latest research in behavioral safety. As of 2018, all 
of our manufacturing sites are using a behavior-
based safety approach, focused on reinforcing 
desired safety behaviors and diminishing 
unsafe behavior through the practice of positive 
reinforcement. We implemented a revitalized 
campaign to focus on safety behaviors across the 
organization, looking not only at how we work but 
also how we get around day to day, such as driving 
and walking in parking structures on our campuses.  
In addition to our safety programs and campaigns, 
we also set goals and measure against them. In 
2018, we set a safety goal of 0.27 incidents or less 
per 100 staff. Though we fell short of meeting that 
goal (with a rate of 0.41), we continue to focus on 
new and improved ways to promote staff safety. 
We surpassed our goal for contractor safety of 
0.7 incidents or less per 100 contractors, ending 
the year with a rate of 0.42. This was a marked 
improvement over our 2017 rate of 0.73. At our annual Safety Summit, which brings 
together leaders from Research and Development 
(R&D) and Operations, we were proud to host Dr. 
Scott Geller, Alumni Distinguished Professor of 
Psychology at Virginia Tech. A world-renowned 
safety expert, he spoke to our leadership on his 
research involving the concept of “Actively Caring.” 
Leaders incorporated Dr. Geller’s safety leadership 
principles as part of their annual safety plans  
for 2019. 
“Evolving into a safety culture of resilience 
requires engagement at all levels so that 
looking out for each other is what we 
instinctively do. ”
—DAVID REESE, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENTWORKPLACEWORKPLACE
Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report    28BUSINESS ETHICS ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE ACCESS TO MEDICINE COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Wellness and the Work Environment
We empower staff to pursue healthy lifestyles, 
providing access to health promotion resources 
and facilities, including fitness facilities and 
memberships, healthy eating options and many 
wellness-oriented promotions and events  
throughout the year. 
Our science-based healthy eating and movement 
program for staff intersects with our innovative 
activity-based office and lab design model. In 2018, 
we completed the rollout of this design model at 
our Thousand Oaks, California, world headquarters. 
Globally, renovations and new building construction 
are adopting this design approach. Our activity-
based workspaces contain abundant natural light 
for all occupants and a choice of flexible work 
areas with ergonomic equipment adapted to the 
variety of tasks staff perform throughout the day. 
This combination of state-of-the-art technology and 
flexible working environment is intended to foster 
innovation and collaboration with a focus on quick 
decision-making. As an extension of our focus on a healthy workplace 
culture, CEO Robert Bradway is a member of the 
American Heart Association (AHA) CEO Roundtable, 
a leadership collaborative of more than 35 CEOs 
dedicated to improving cardiovascular health in 
their workplaces and in local communities. The CEO 
Roundtable is helping to scale up evidence-based 
standards and best practices to support the AHA’s 
goal of achieving a 20 percent improvement in the 
cardiovascular health of all Americans by 2020. In 
2018, Amgen was recognized with the AHA’s Gold 
Level Workplace Health Achievement award.
Workplace Accolades
Amgen earned a number of prestigious recognitions  
for workplace culture in 2018, including achieving 
100 percent on Human Rights Campaign’s 
Corporate Equality Index and inclusion in Fortune  
magazine’s Most Admired Companies; Forbes  
magazine’s Best Large Employers, Best Employers 
for Diversity and Best Place for Millennials lists 
for 2018; Forbes Magazine and Just Capital’s 
“JUST 100” America’s Most Just Companies; and 
CareerBliss Happiest Companies in America.WORKPLACEWORKPLACE
Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report    29BUSINESS ETHICS ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE ACCESS TO MEDICINE COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Amgen communicates its progress in environmental sustainability 
and social responsibility in a variety of ways. We provide 
information on our website, participate in industry conferences  
and workshops, provide information to external organizations  
and produce annual reports. 
In determining what and how we report externally, Amgen 
considers a wide range of international standards and guidelines, 
including those developed by the Global Reporting Initiative, 
CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project), Sustainability 
Accounting Standards Board (SASB), the United Nations Global 
Compact and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Since 
there is no single, universally accepted standard for reporting, 
Amgen has aligned the communication in this report with the most global of guidelines: the United Nations Global Compact 
and Sustainable Development Goals. Throughout this report, 
there are references to the relevant SDGs, and within this section 
there is a table showing alignment with the Global Compact. 
In addition to this report, we communicate additional information 
through our corporate website:
•  Donations and grants made by the company and the  
Amgen Foundation
• Political contributions in the U.S.
•  Disclosures in alignment with the European Federation of 
Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations codes of practice
•  Securities and Exchange Commission—required  
financial reporting
• Responses to CDP climate change and water surveys
• Environmental dataOur environmental data include annual reporting on our overall 
energy and carbon, water, waste and sales fleet fuel efficiency 
performance. We include data gathered from 16 manufacturing, 
research and development and distribution facilities in North 
America, South America, Eurasia, Asia and Europe, representing 
approximately 88 percent of our operations—based on our 
facilities’ square footage. The remaining square footage includes 
primarily administrative offices. Recently acquired facilities are 
outside the scope of our reporting. Our 2018 environmental and 
safety data have undergone limited assurance by Bureau Veritas 
North America.REPORTING
Selected Company Performance Data
Type Unit 2007 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Total Energy (i) 1,000 GJ 4,341 3,849 3,817 3,706 3,812 3,535 3,709 3,284
Total Carbon From Energy (i) 1,000 MT CO2Eq 416 385 363 354 369 291 278 263
Total Water Withdrawal (i) 1,000 CM 3,286 2,720 2,725 2,487 2,520 2,351 2,320 2,093
Total Routine Waste (i) MT 10,146 9,018 8,780 8,929 10,054 10,330 9,856 9,642
Environmental Notices of Violation (NOVs) (ii) 1 NOV 8 2 2 6 1 1 1 3
Staff Injury and Illness Rate Incidents per 100 workers 0.81 0.56 0.57 0.42 0.37 0.44 0.36 0.41
Staff Lost Day Case Rate Incidents per 100 workers 0.25 0.17 0.11 0.12 0.12 0.14 0.13 0.14
Amgen Staff (FTE) People 17,500 17,900 20,000 17,900 17,900 19,200 20,800 21,500
Net Sales $ Millions 14,311 16,639 18,192 19,327 20,944 21,892 21,795 22,533
Non-GAAP Net Income (iii) $ Millions 4,804 5,119 5,814 6,700 7,954 8,785 9,246 9,573
Non-GAAP R&D Expenses (iii) $ Millions 3,064 3,296 3,929 4,121 3,917 3,755 3,482 3,657
 
For additional environment, safety and financial performance data, please see www.amgen.com.REPORTINGAmgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report    30BUSINESS ETHICS ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE ACCESS TO MEDICINE COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
REPORTING
Data Notes  
i)  Please see Responsibility/Environment on www.amgen.com for an Independent Verification Statement for this data. Amgen has included data from 16 facilities covering energy and carbon, water and waste. The facilities represent approximately 88 percent of Amgen’s worldwide facility space based on total 
square feet. Included facilities are in Thousand Oaks, California, U.S.; West Greenwich, Rhode Island, U.S.; Juncos, Puerto Rico, U.S.; Louisville, Kentucky, U.S.; South San Francisco, California, U.S.; Cambridge and Woburn, Massachusetts, U.S.; Burnaby, Canada; Breda, Netherlands; Dun Laoghaire, Ireland; 
Uxbridge and Cambridge, United Kingdom; São Paulo, Brazil; Yenibosna and Sekerpinar, Turkey; and Tuas, Singapore. This includes leased buildings where we have operational control over building infrastructure, including utilities.
ii) Environmental notices of violation (NOVs) reported that resulted from agency inspections.
iii) Amgen Inc. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) to non-GAAP Reconciliations (In millions) (Unaudited) 
Years ended December 31,
2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2007
GAAP research and development expenses  $              3,737  $              3,562  $              3,840  $              4,070  $              4,297 $              4,083 $              3,380 $              3,266 
     Adjustments to research and development expenses:
          Acquisition-related expenses (a)  (78) (77)  (78)  (89)  (124)  (142)  (50)  (100)
          Certain charges pursuant to our restructuring and other cost savings initiatives (b)  (2) (3)  (7)  (64)  (49)  -  (12)  (19)
          Stock option expense  - -  -  -  (3)  (12)  (22)   (83)   
     Total adjustments to research and development expenses  (80) (80)  (85)  (153)  (176)  (154)  (84)  (202)
Non-GAAP research and development expenses   $              3,657 $              3,482  $              3,755  $              3,917  $              4,121  $              3,929  $              3,296 $              3,064 
GAAP operating income  $            10,263 $              9,973  $              9,794  $              8,470  $              6,191  $              5,867  $              5,577  $              3,980 
     Adjustments to operating income:  
          Acquisition-related expenses (a) 1,557 1,594  1,510  1,377  1,546  986  470  1,016 
          Certain charges pursuant to our restructuring and other cost savings initiatives (b) 12 88  37  114  596  71  347  739 
          Expense/(benefit) related to various legal proceedings   -  -  105  91  (3)  14  64  34 
          Stock option expense  - -  -  -  16  34  59  181 
          Expense resulting from clarified guidance on branded prescription drug fee (c)  -  -  -  -  129  -  -  - 
          Other 25 3 - - - - - 120
     Total adjustments to operating income               1,594 1,685  1,652  1,582  2,284  1,105  940  2,090 
Non-GAAP operating income  $            11,857  $          11,658  $            11,446  $            10,052  $              8,475  $              6,972  $              6,517  $              6,070 
GAAP net income $              8,394  $            1,979  $              7,722  $              6,939  $              5,158  $              5,081  $              4,345  $              3,078 
     Adjustments to net income:
          Adjustments to operating income  1,594 1,685  1,652  1,582  2,284  1,105  940  2,090 
          Adjustments to other income (d)  (68)  -  -  -  -  34  140  219 
          Income tax effect of the above adjustments (e)  (362) (538)  (525)  (496)  (717)  (376)  (329)  (491)
          Other income tax adjustments (f)  15 6,120  (64)  (71)  (25)  (30)  23  (92)
     Total adjustments to net income  1,179  7,267               1,063               1,015               1,542               733               774               1,726 
Non-GAAP net income  $              9,573  $            9,246  $              8,785  $              7,954  $              6,700  $              5,814  $              5,119  $              4,804 
(a) The adjustments related primarily to noncash amortization of intangible assets acquired in business combinations. For the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, the adjustments to operating income also included impairments of intangible assets acquired in business combinations.  
(b) The adjustments related to headcount charges, such as severance, and to asset charges, such as asset impairments, accelerated depreciation and other charges related to the closure of our facilities.
(c) The adjustment related to the recognition of an additional year of the nontax deductible branded prescription drug fee, as required by final regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service.  
(d) For the year ended December 31, 2018, the adjustment related to the net gain associated with the Kirin-Amgen share acquisition. For years ended December 31, 2012 and 2007, the adjustments related primarily to noncash interest expense associated with our convertible notes.  
(e)  The tax effect of the adjustments between our GAAP and non-GAAP results takes into account the tax treatment and related tax rate(s) that apply to each adjustment in the applicable tax jurisdiction(s). Generally, this results in a tax impact at the U.S. marginal tax rate for certain adjustments, including the majority of amortization of intangible assets, whereas the tax impact of other adjustments, 
including restructuring expense, depends on whether the amounts are deductible in the respective tax jurisdictions and the applicable tax rate(s) in those jurisdictions.  
(f)  The adjustments related to certain acquisition items and prior-period items excluded from GAAP earnings. For the year ended December 31, 2017, the adjustment related primarily to the impact of U.S. Corporate tax reform, including the repatriation tax on accumulated foreign earnings and the remeasurement of certain net deferred and other tax liabilities.  
Amgen Inc.  
Reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP Financial Measures               
The non-GAAP financial measures are derived by excluding certain amounts, expenses or income, from the corresponding financial measures determined in accordance with GAAP. The determination of the amounts that are excluded from these non-GAAP financial measures is a matter of management judgment and depend upon, among other factors, the nature of the underlying expense or income 
amounts recognized in a given period. Historically, management has excluded the following items from these non-GAAP financial measures, and such items may also be excluded in future periods and could be significant:          
• Expenses related to the acquisition of businesses, including amortization and/or impairment of acquired intangible assets, including in-process research and development, adjustments to contingent consideration, integration costs, severance and retention costs and transaction costs;        
• Charges associated with restructuring or cost saving initiatives, including but not limited to asset impairments, accelerated depreciation, severance costs and lease abandonment charges;             
• Legal settlements or awards;
• The tax effect of the above items; 
• Non-routine settlements with tax authorities; and
• The impact of the adoption of the U.S. Corporate tax reform.              REPORTINGAmgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report    31BUSINESS ETHICS ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE ACCESS TO MEDICINE COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
UN Global Compact Communication 
on Progress  
This 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report serves as 
Amgen’s Communication on Progress for the United 
Nations Global Compact (UNGC). The statement from 
our chief executive officer at the beginning of the report 
reaffirms our commitment to the principles of the UNGC, 
and much of the content throughout the report highlights 
progress in the four key areas of the UNGC: Environment, 
Labor, Human Rights and Anti-Corruption. In addition, this 
section includes a summary of our progress in 2018 most 
relevant to the UNGC, as well as a table that provides 
a listing of where additional information about relevant 
programs and policies can be found.
Highlights of Progress
Many of Amgen’s programs, procedures, policies and 
reporting are well aligned with the UNGC principles,  
and we continue to work to enhance our approaches  
and performance in alignment with those principles.  
Over the last 12 months, some of the progress that has 
been achieved includes the following:
•  Amgen contributed $2 million to Lazarex’s IMPACT 
(IMproving Patient Access to Cancer Clinical Trials) 
program, which is focused on improving patient 
enrollment, retention, minority participation and  
equitable access in oncology trials. (See the Access  
to Medicine section of this report for more details.)•  Amgen met its 2020 targets for reducing carbon 
emissions and water use two years ahead of 
schedule. (See the Environment section of this report 
for more details.)
•  The Amgen Foundation continued global expansion 
of the Amgen Biotech Experience, which provides 
hands-on STEM education and to date has reached 
nearly 700,000 students, 1,500 teachers and 850 
schools around the world. (See the Community section 
of this report for more details.)
•  Amgen donated $93 million of NEUPOGEN®, 
Neulasta® and Vectibix® to Direct Relief to provide 
access to these medicines to approximately 7,400 
patients across 18 low- and middle-income countries, 
such as Ethiopia, Ghana, Haiti, Nepal, Senegal,  
Tanzania and Uganda. (See the Access to Medicine 
section of this report for more details.)
•  Amgen’s Employee Resource Groups evolved from  
a site-based to a global program, with local chapters 
at Amgen’s sites around the world. This new structure 
is meant to amplify the program’s reach among staff 
across the globe and allow for program consistency  
and scale. (See the Workplace section of this report  
for more details.)
•  Amgen implemented a Global Ethics & Compliance 
Declaration Program that calls for specific leaders to 
execute an ethics and compliance engagement plan and sign a Declaration (includes a conflict of interest 
certification) annually demonstrating commitment to  
ethics and compliance by Amgen and its leaders.  
(See the Business Ethics section of this report for  
more details.)
•  Amgen expanded health system strengthening 
collaborations with providers, diagnostic companies, 
medical societies, digital technology companies, 
academia, payers and others. Currently programs are 
being implemented in 36 countries, such as Bulgaria, 
Colombia, Cuba, India, Mexico and Thailand. (See  
the Access to Medicine section of this report for  
more details.)REPORTINGREPORTINGBUSINESS ETHICS ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE ACCESS TO MEDICINE COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report    32REPORTING
UNGC Principles Categories
Amgen Policies, Programs and Reporting Human Rights Labor Environment Anti-Corruption
Responsibility Highlights Report
Commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility  
Staff Code of Conduct  
Diversity and Inclusion    
Access to Medicine    
Staff Health and Safety   
Staff Wellness    
Environment, Health and Safety Policy   
Non-Discrimination    
Environmental Sustainability Commitment    
Environmental Sustainability Performance    
Amgen Foundation
Supplier Sustainability
California Supply Chain Transparency Act
Conflict Minerals Policy
Conflict Minerals Report
Supplier Diversity
Anti-Corruption and U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices
Interactions with Healthcare ProvidersCommunication on Progress Summary of Relevant Reporting 
In addition to this report, Amgen provides extensive reporting on policies and progress aligned with the UNGC on our website. Below is a summary table providing links to existing reporting aligned with the major 
categories of UNGC principles.REPORTINGBUSINESS ETHICS ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE ACCESS TO MEDICINE COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report    33REPORTING
UNGC Principles Categories
Amgen Policies, Programs and Reporting Human Rights Labor Environment Anti-Corruption
Counterfeit Drugs
Global Patient Safety  
Grants and Giving  
Antitrust and Unfair Competition Policy   
Dealing with the Government Policy    
Compliance Reporting and Non-Retaliation   
Insider Trading Policy    
Protection of Personal Information Policy   
Awards and Accolades    Communication on Progress Summary of Relevant Reporting (continued)REPORTINGBUSINESS ETHICS ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE ACCESS TO MEDICINE COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Amgen 2018 Responsibility Highlights Report    34
REPORTING
Forward-Looking Statements 
This communication contains forward-looking statements that are based on the current expectations and beliefs of Amgen. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, are statements that could be deemed 
forward-looking statements, including estimates of revenues, operating margins, capital expenditures, cash, other financial metrics, expected legal, arbitration, political, regulatory or clinical results or practices, customer 
and prescriber patterns or practices, reimbursement activities and outcomes and other such estimates and results. Forward-looking statements involve significant risks and uncertainties, including those discussed below 
and more fully described in the Securities and Exchange Commission reports filed by Amgen, including its most recent annual report on Form 10-K and any subsequent periodic reports on Form 10-Q and current reports 
on Form 8-K. Unless otherwise noted, Amgen is providing this information as of the date of this communication and does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document 
as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
No forward-looking statement can be guaranteed and actual results may differ materially from those Amgen project. Amgen’s results may be affected by its ability to successfully market both new and existing products 
domestically and internationally, clinical and regulatory developments involving current and future products, sales growth of recently launched products, competition from other products including biosimilars, difficulties 
or delays in manufacturing its products and global economic conditions. In addition, sales of Amgen’s products are affected by pricing pressure, political and public scrutiny and reimbursement policies imposed by third-
party payers, including governments, private insurance plans and managed care providers and may be affected by regulatory, clinical and guideline developments and domestic and international trends toward managed 
care and healthcare cost containment. Furthermore, Amgen’s research, testing, pricing, marketing and other operations are subject to extensive regulation by domestic and foreign government regulatory authorities. 
Amgen or others could identify safety, side effects or manufacturing problems with its products, including its devices, after they are on the market. Amgen’s business may be impacted by government investigations, 
litigation and product liability claims. In addition, Amgen’s business may be impacted by the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities. While Amgen routinely obtains patents for its products 
and technology, the protection offered by its patents and patent applications may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by its competitors, or Amgen may fail to prevail in present and future intellectual property 
litigation. Amgen performs a substantial amount of its commercial manufacturing activities at a few key facilities, including in Puerto Rico, and also depends on third parties for a portion of its manufacturing activities, and 
limits on supply may constrain sales of certain of its current products and product candidate development. We rely on collaborations with third parties for the development of some of our product candidates and for the 
commercialization and sales of some of our commercial products. In addition, Amgen competes with other companies with respect to many of its marketed products as well as for the discovery and development of new 
products. Discovery or identification of new product candidates or development of new indications for existing products cannot be guaranteed and movement from concept to product is uncertain; consequently, there can 
be no guarantee that any particular product candidate or development of a new indication for an existing product will be successful and become a commercial product. Further, some raw materials, medical devices and 
component parts for Amgen’s products are supplied by sole third-party suppliers. Certain of Amgen’s distributors, customers and payers have substantial purchasing leverage in their dealings with Amgen. The discovery 
of significant problems with a product similar to one of Amgen’s products that implicate an entire class of products could have a material adverse effect on sales of the affected products and on its business and results 
of operations. Amgen’s efforts to acquire other companies or products and to integrate the operations of companies Amgen has acquired may not be successful. A breakdown, cyberattack or information security breach 
could compromise the confidentiality, integrity and availability of Amgen’s systems and Amgen’s data. Amgen’s stock price may be volatile and may be affected by a number of events. Amgen’s business performance 
could affect or limit the ability of the Amgen Board of Directors to declare a dividend or its ability to pay a dividend or repurchase its common stock. Amgen may not be able to access the capital and credit markets on 
terms that are favorable to it, or at all.REPORTINGAmgen Inc.  
One Amgen Center Drive 
Thousand Oaks, CA 91320-1799 
www.amgen.com
© 2019 Amgen Inc. All rights reserved. May 2019.