RESPONSIBILITY 
HIGHLIGHTS 
REPORT2017
Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report    2Our mission to serve patients is central 
to our strategy, which is focused on 
discovering, developing, manufacturing  
and delivering innovative human therapeutics to treat some of the world’s 
most serious diseases. It is through these  
efforts that we make our greatest contribution to society. 
Amgen has approximately 20,000 staff 
worldwide with a presence in 100 countries.  
A biotechnology pioneer since 1980,  
we have reached millions of patients  
around the world with our robust product portfolio of innovative medicines, and 
we have a pipeline of medicines with 
breakaway potential. 
Amgen focuses on areas of high unmet 
medical need in cardiovascular disease, 
oncology, bone health, nephrology, 
neuroscience and inflammation. Our staff 
strive for solutions that provide the best possible health outcomes and dramatically 
improve people’s lives. Our medicines 
typically address diseases for which there 
are limited treatment options, or they are 
medicines that provide a viable option to 
what is otherwise available. 
Amgen has distinguished capabilities as a 
research and development innovator and as 
a manufacturer of biologic medicines. We leverage tools such as advanced human 
genetics to validate and identify human 
disease targets. Through our biology-first 
approach, we seek to match disease targets 
with the best modality or medicine from the 
standpoint of optimal efficacy and safety. A 
worldwide leader in biologics manufacturing, 
Amgen has an outstanding track record of 
reliably delivering high-quality medicines to patients who need them.ABOUT AMGEN
FOR MORE INFORMATION, VISIT ABOUT AMGEN  ON
www.amgen.com
“Never before have we been in 
a better position to understand and combat human disease. ” 
— SEAN HARPER, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT,   
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENTOPERATING RESPONSIBLY ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE PATIENTS COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report    32017100 BestCorporate
CitizensCR’s
Staff contributed nearly 29,000 
volunteer hours in 2017.
SPOTLIGHT ON 2017
Beyond our mission to serve patients, we devote 
considerable resources to support human 
and environmental health and build strong 
communities where we live and work. Improving patient access to medicines, supporting science education, developing sustainable research and 
manufacturing processes and volunteering in our 
communities are just some of the many efforts we are proud to highlight in this report. 100% of staff completed 
Code of Conduct training.We have a 35% minority population in the  
U.S. workforce.We reduced 118,200 metric tons of carbon emissions, or 28%, since 2007, saving $28 million in operating costs annually.
Staff donations plus matching funds from the Amgen Foundation totaled  
$7.8 million in 2017.OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE PATIENTS COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report    4OPERATING 
RESPONSIBLY  |  14
Our business is built on an 
unwavering commitment to integrity and compliance.
CONTENTS
WORKPLACE  |  26
We foster an inclusive, safe and healthy work environment.COMMITMENT  |  6
Our commitment extends beyond making vital medicines.ENVIRONMENT  |  21
We take action to reduce our impact on the environment.
COMMUNITY  |  17
We recognize the importance of giving back to our communities.REPORTING  |  28
We communicate our progress in a variety of ways aligned with global standards.PATIENTS  |  10
Our mission is to serve patients.Our 2017 Responsibility 
Highlights Report features 
selected accomplishments in 
the many areas where we are 
making positive contributions 
for patients and beyond. 
Complete information and 
full data can be found on 
www.amgen.com.Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report    5OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE PATIENTS COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
LEADERSHIP MESSAGE
Thank you for your interest in Amgen and how we are 
helping to build a better tomorrow. As one of the world’s 
leading biotechnology companies, our greatest contribution 
to society comes from discovering and developing 
innovative medicines to treat patients suffering from serious 
illnesses such as cardiovascular disease and cancer. 
These two diseases alone claim millions of lives every year 
globally and cost society hundreds of billions of dollars.  
As the world grows older, these statistics will only get worse without the type of innovation Amgen provides.
We also recognize that we have an ability to make a 
positive impact in many other ways—and that’s what 
you will read about in this report. We are committed, for 
example, to ensuring that patients in financial need can 
access our medicines, that young people can learn a love 
for science, that we can reduce our environmental impact, 
even as we expand our geographic presence, and that we can create a workplace in which employees from diverse 
backgrounds can work together to achieve great things.   
We know that the most powerful and rewarding way to 
change the world is to do so with others by your side.  
In 2017, we established a Global Advocacy Relations  
team to better understand the needs of the most  
important stakeholders we serve: patients. We also  
have joined forces with organizations, such as the Union for International Cancer Control and the World Heart 
Federation, to advance the treatment of life-threatening 
diseases throughout the world. I chair the CEO Roundtable on Cancer and serve as a member of the American Heart Association CEO Roundtable, two not-for-profit 
organizations promoting disease prevention and wellness.
We’re further aligning our efforts with respected 
international frameworks. This report includes our 
Communication on Progress associated with the Ten 
Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, which 
many of our policies, procedures and programs support. 
Additionally, this report discusses the ways in which Amgen aligns with the UN Sustainable Development Goals, 
which call for broad action to promote prosperity while 
protecting the planet.
I’m proud to see that our efforts to be a good corporate 
citizen are being recognized. In 2017, Amgen was 
included on the Dow Jones Sustainability World and 
North America Indexes for the fourth and fifth year in a 
row, respectively, and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency honored our scientists with the Green Chemistry 
Challenge Award. Amgen earned a perfect score on the 
2017 Corporate Equality Index, administered by the Human 
Rights Campaign Foundation, and, in early 2018, we 
ranked among the top 100 on Forbes magazine’s  
inaugural list of “America’s Best Employers for Diversity.”     
Finally, our report discusses Amgen’s response to 
Hurricane Maria, a Category 5 storm that swept across Puerto Rico in September 2017. Puerto Rico is home to 
some 2,000 Amgen staff members and our company’s 
largest manufacturing site. In the face of unprecedented destruction, our people stood together and rose to the occasion—for patients, the community and each other. 
If we bring this same spirit to everything we do, there’s 
nothing we can’t accomplish. 
Thank you again for your interest in Amgen. We value your 
feedback, and I invite you to share your thoughts with us at 
responsibility@amgen.com.
Robert A. Bradway
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report    6OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE PATIENTS COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
COMMITMENT
As we accomplish our core work of discovering, 
developing, manufacturing and delivering innovative human therapeutics to serve patients, we are committed to responsible operations across our global company. Our approach, which includes social and environmental aspects, has evolved and grown over the years, and we are proud to be sharing our progress in this report. This year we are highlighting how we align with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), a globally recognized platform for advancing sustainability in the public and private sectors.
Responsibility Governance
Responsibility at Amgen is governed at the highest levels. Our executive leadership reports our progress to the Corporate Responsibility and Compliance Committee (CRCC) of our Board of Directors. The CRCC assists the Board in overseeing Amgen’s activities in the areas of corporate responsibility and compliance. In addition, Amgen’s responsibility performance is governed through facility- and corporate-level management reviews. One key component of Amgen’s corporate-level governance is the Sustainability Council, which includes representation by leaders from a wide cross section of company functions and provides guidance on the implementation of our environmental sustainability plan as well as areas of social responsibility. Engaging With StakeholdersAmgen strives to continuously align its responsibility programs with the expectations of internal and external stakeholders. In particular, we focus on those issues that are considered to be the highest priority for stakeholders and that align with Amgen’s mission, values and strategy. 
Amgen uses a variety of mechanisms to gauge 
stakeholder interests, including direct engagement with stakeholders, periodic stakeholder assessments and relevant frameworks. These frameworks include the UN Global Compact, Sustainable Development Goals and Sustainability Accounting Standards Board standards, as well as external sustainability ratings, such as the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and CDP (formerly known as Carbon Disclosure Project), since they represent the perspectives of key stakeholders. 
COMMITMENT
FOR MORE INFORMATION 
Visit Leadership on www.amgen.com.Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report    7OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE PATIENTS COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Listening to Our Patients
Patients are at the center of everything we do and are our most important stakeholders. As a result, the safety and effectiveness of our medicines are paramount. In addition, we seek patients’ input to advise us with decision-making and product strategy across the lifecycle of our products. 
To best serve patients, we recognize that we must 
work with them to understand their unmet needs and provide innovation that enhances both their experience with and the value of our medicines. This approach relies on an active feedback loop with patients. In 2017, we continued our efforts to consistently incorporate the patient voice across the product lifecycle. Through engaging with patients, we identified opportunities and integrated solutions to improve the patient experience in some of our clinical trials, as well as in the post-approval setting. As one example of this effort, we co-created support solutions with patients with multiple myeloma and their caregivers to improve patients’ experience with KYPROLIS
® (carfilzomib) and help 
them stay on the drug as prescribed.Amgen is also highly committed to working with global regulators to ensure the incorporation of the patient’s voice in drug development and regulatory decision-making across all stages of the lifecycle. In 2017, Amgen participated in several U.S. Food and Drug Administration workshops on Patient-Focused Drug Development to guide us on the collection and submission of usable patient experience data for medical product development and regulatory  
decision-making.
In 2017, we established a new Global Advocacy 
Relations team to better understand and incorporate the patient community voice early on as we develop and commercialize our medicines, as well as to positively impact the healthcare environment in support of access to treatment for patients. The team held a stakeholder summit that brought together Amgen leadership with the leadership of 44 national patient advocacy organizations, professional societies and research and policy organizations in a variety of therapeutic areas in order to share perspectives on patient challenges and sustainable healthcare.COMMITMENT
FOR MORE INFORMATION 
Visit Amgen’s Commitment to Patients   on www.amgen.com.COMMITMENTAmgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report    8OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE PATIENTS COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
COMMITMENTCOMMITMENT
During 2017, we conducted a 
stakeholder assessment to update and enhance our understanding of the responsibility issues of greatest importance to internal and external stakeholders. We gathered information from stakeholders using direct interviews, online surveys, group discussions and review of relevant published material. We surveyed internal stakeholders to understand their perspectives on issues that impact Amgen’s business. External stakeholders surveyed included patient advocacy organizations, corporate social responsibility-focused non-government organizations, investors and organizations devoted to promoting access to medicine. We are using the information we gained to help shape our approach to programs and reporting as we move forward.
Most Important Importance to External Stakeholders
Impact on BusinessEXTERNAL
ENGAGEMENT
PHILANTHROPY& SCIENCE EDUCATIONHUMANRIGHTSDIVERSITY &
INEQUALITYPRODUCTS &SUPPLY CHAIN
INNOVATION& GROWTHSAFE, EFFECTIVEMEDICINEACCESS TO MEDICINEETHICAL BUSINESS
ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH & SAFETY
Most Impactful
While all issues included in this assessment are important, this graph shows that, in the view of a variety of stakeholders, 
enhancing access to medicine, making safe and effective medicines and conducting business in an ethical manner are currently the highest priority issues. Stakeholder Assessment ResultsAmgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report    9OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE PATIENTS COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
The Amgen Foundation’s numerous 
and innovative science education programs for teachers and students around the world support fulfillment of SDG 4: Quality Education—Ensure Inclusive and 
Quality Education for All and Promote Lifelong Learning.Amgen’s mission is in complete alignment with SDG 3: Good Health and Well-Being. Beyond making innovative medicines to address serious illnesses, Amgen is also establishing new 
partnerships, business models and patient assistance programs to ensure as many people as possible benefit from those medicines.Through our long-term commitment to environmental sustainability targets, we have significantly reduced the amount of waste and carbon produced from our operations, while 
simultaneously reducing the amount of energy and water used—a commitment that supports SDG 12: Responsible Consumption and Production.
A great deal of our work at Amgen aligns with SDG 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure. Amgen has pioneered the use of modular, configurable technologies that 
are more environmentally friendly and enable Amgen to grow production capabilities to improve access to our medicines for patients around the world.Amgen’s work to forge partnerships aligns well with SDG 17: Partnerships for the Goals. For instance, in 2017, Amgen expanded its partnership with the Union for International 
Cancer Control to support the C/Can 2025:City Cancer Challenge, designed to improve global health systems and access to medicines to address the growing burden of cancer.
COMMITMENTCOMMITMENT
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a globally recognized framework for advancing sustainability in the public and private sectors. Many different stakeholders, including countries, communities, businesses and organizations  
support the goals to tackle global challenges in economic, social and environmental dimensions. 
Much of Amgen’s approach to responsibility is  
aligned with the SDGs. Throughout this report,  
you’ll see SDG icons to signal how our current  
actions in an area align with five SDGs within  
this framework. 
Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report    10OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE PATIENTS COMMUNITY COMMITMENT PATIENTS
Amgen was founded on the belief that biotechnology 
can be harnessed to relieve human suffering through medical therapeutics. We have delivered on this vision, investing billions of dollars in research and development and providing numerous innovative medicines to serve patients facing serious illnesses. We believe that medicines like ours represent the best hope to address the clinical, economic and societal burden of disease.
Connecting patients to therapeutic innovation 
comes with a deep sense of responsibility that surrounds and extends beyond the practice of discovering, developing and manufacturing medicines. With patients at the center of all we do, we are committed to responsible and transparent clinical trial management, supplying patients with safe, effective and high-quality products and promoting access to our medicines and health innovation through strategic initiatives, collaborative partnerships and charitable giving.    
Access to Medicine  
Amgen is working across the entire healthcare 
community to ensure a fertile environment for innovation and to help develop healthcare systems that enable patients to access the treatments they need through a variety of programs and strategic initiatives. In 2017, Amgen developed a new Health and Innovation Partnerships framework to coordinate a number of these efforts, with a particular emphasis    on emerging markets. By strategically using our experience as a pioneer and global leader in biotechnology, the Amgen Health and Innovation Partnerships framework aims to increase the number of patients around the world who are benefiting from innovative biologic medicines and biosimilars to treat serious, life-threatening diseases.  
One key element of Amgen’s enduring commitment 
to serve patients is the support and education programs that help patients in financial need access our medicines in many countries around the world. For example, since 2008, the Amgen Safety Net Foundation provided more than $4 billion worth of Amgen medicines to help hundreds of thousands  of qualifying patients gain access to their therapy  in the United States at no cost.
PATIENTS
Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report    11OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE PATIENTS COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
As of December 2017, we had 13 patient access 
programs in operation outside the United States. These programs are designed to help clinically  
and financially eligible patients obtain the  
medicines they need. 
Amgen is also committed to working with 
policymakers, patients and other stakeholders to establish sustainable healthcare systems, with access to quality care. These types of collaborative efforts are particularly important in parts of the world with less developed healthcare systems, and we are expanding our engagement in these kinds of communities. During 2017, Amgen expanded its partnership with the Union for International Cancer Control to support its innovative new C/Can 2025: City Cancer Challenge program. C/Can 2025 is a  
multi-stakeholder initiative that supports major  
cities in the design, planning and implementation  
of integrated cancer treatment solutions that strive to reduce cancer mortality. We are also supporting the World Heart Federation (WHF) in the rollout  
of its cardiovascular disease “roadmaps” and in organizing implementation events at a country level. For instance, in conjunction with WHF and the Colombian Society of Cardiology and Cardiovascular Surgery, Amgen supported a multi-stakeholder event in Bogota, Colombia, which culminated in the signing of the Colombian Manifesto for the Prevention of Myocardial Infarction—a commitment to provide better cardiovascular care and prevent cardiovascular-related deaths in Colombia. At the end of 2016, Amgen became a founding sponsor of All.Can, a multi-stakeholder international initiative designed to help define better solutions for sustainable cancer care and improve patient outcomes in the future.
We have also been at the forefront of developing 
innovative partnerships designed to improve population health and patient access, as well as outcomes-based and risk-sharing contracting approaches that link the price of our medicines  
to their real-world performance. In this regard, Amgen developed a new Value-Based Partnership team that launched programs in more than 10 countries, seeking to increase value to patients and healthcare systems by improving patient outcomes at a lower overall cost to the healthcare industry. These programs include collaborations with payers, pharmacy benefit managers, providers, academia and other stakeholders to gain insights to better inform, and potentially improve, patient outcomes and experiences. Another key element of our approach is to develop high-value therapeutic choices in the form of high-quality and reliably supplied biosimilars. With nine active biosimilar programs in our pipeline, this is an area of significant investment for Amgen.
PATIENTS
PATIENTSAmgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report    12OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE PATIENTS COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Supporting Health Education 
Every year, Amgen donates millions of dollars to organizations that advance medicine and healthcare, promote healthcare professional education, educate the public on diseases  
and medical conditions and support other philanthropic and charitable causes that  
ultimately benefit patients. 
In 2017, Amgen supported several headache 
medicine fellowships across multiple institutions. Fellowship programs like these are designed to inspire physicians to enter careers in neuroscience and provide opportunities for eligible physicians who wish to gain advanced training in the specialty of headache medicine. Through the programs, fellows gain a deep understanding of the  
diagnosis and treatment of headache disorders. Safe and Effective Medicines for Our PatientsPatient safety is our highest priority. To fulfill our commitment to patient safety, Amgen’s Global Patient Safety Team applies a comprehensive, continuous and rigorous approach to pharmacovigilance—the science of monitoring, reviewing, evaluating and communicating information on the safety of pharmaceutical products throughout the product lifecycle. Amgen works collaboratively and transparently with worldwide regulatory agencies to achieve the common objective of protecting patient safety. 
Our supply chain security program supports an 
effective, secure and resilient global supply chain, and the overall integrity of Amgen’s medicines,  
for the protection and safety of our patients. In 2017, Amgen continued to advance the practice  
of product serialization, a safety feature that allows verification and authentication for Amgen’s products in order to combat counterfeiting and ensure product integrity in accordance with the  
U.S. Drug Supply Chain Security Act and the European Falsified Medicines Directive.   PATIENTS
“At Amgen, we are committed to patients, 
ensuring through our resilient supply chain  
that we serve every patient, every time with  
safe and effective medicines. ”
— SOM CHATTOPADHYAY , VICE PRESIDENT, GLOBAL SUPPLY CHAIN
FOR MORE INFORMATION 
Visit Grants and Giving on www.amgen.com.FOR MORE INFORMATION 
Visit Global Patient Safety on www.amgen.com.PATIENTSAmgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report    13OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE PATIENTS COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Clinical Trial Transparency and Data Sharing  
We never forget the central role patients play in  
the development of Amgen medicines through 
clinical trial participation. Ensuring transparency regarding our clinical trials and their results is an important issue for Amgen, and we aim to ensure that our research practices are available, responsible and fully compliant with applicable laws, regulations and guidelines. Amgen is also committed to the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations and  
the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers  
of America endorsement of “Principles for Responsible Clinical Trial Data Sharing.”    
We believe it is important to honor the altruism 
of patients who participate in clinical trials. To that end, we share certain clinical trial data in collaboration with external medical and scientific researchers to advance clinical research and enhance public health. In 2017, David Reese, senior vice president, Translational Medicine, co-authored a commentary in the New England Journal of Medicine, “Advantages of a Truly Open-Access Data-Sharing Model.” This commentary touches on Amgen’s contribution of contributor-arm data to Project Data Sphere, a data-sharing cancer research initiative of the CEO Roundtable on Cancer, chaired by our CEO Robert Bradway. Further, to improve patients’ access to clinical trial data and outcomes and enhance their understanding of that data, in 2017, we created a portal containing brief summaries of the main results from clinical studies written in plain language. 
Amgen also participates in the TransCelerate 
Placebo and Standard of Care Initiative, sponsored by the nonprofit TransCelerate Biopharma Inc., in which companies share de-identified clinical trial data with one another to design clinical trial protocols to be more streamlined and efficient. In 2017, Elliott Levy, M.D., senior vice president of Global Development at Amgen, was appointed  
Chair of the TransCelerate Board of Directors. 
PATIENTS
FOR MORE INFORMATION 
Visit Clinical Trials and  Amgen’s Commitment to Patients  on www.amgen.com. PATIENTSAmgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report    14OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE PATIENTS COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Operating ethically and responsibly is central to our 
mission to serve patients. For Amgen’s passionateand committed people, doing the right thing means living the Amgen Values—being ethical, trusting andrespecting each other, ensuring quality and being science-based, to name a few. As the scope,complexity and global footprint of our business continues to evolve, maintaining an ethical culture  
is essential.
Compliance Governance
Our ethical culture starts at the highest levels of leadership and is integrated at every level of ourbusiness. To guide us, Amgen has created a tiered compliance governance structure to ensure acompany-wide commitment to compliance. The Compliance Committee and the Compliance Councilhave management and operational responsibilities, respectively, for the Worldwide Compliance &Business Ethics Program. The Compliance Committee includes executive management, while the Compliance Council, which is chaired by Amgen’s Chief Compliance Officer, is a cross-functional team of senior leaders whose responsibilities include addressing compliance risks and promoting compliance throughout Amgen. The Chief Compliance Officer reports on the effectiveness of the Worldwide Compliance & Business Ethics Program to the Corporate Responsibility and Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors.
Supporting and Reinforcing Our Compliance Culture
Our compliance governance structure is supported by our Worldwide Compliance & Business EthicsProgram. Compliance professionals located in countries where we operate manage this program and provide resources to support all staff. Global resources that help staff members do the right thinginclude Amgen’s Code of Conduct , compliance 
websites and training courses, Amgen’s compliancepolicies, guidance from managers and dedicated compliance professionals and Amgen’s  
Business Conduct Hotline .
Amgen’s Code of Conduct makes clear the expectation that every person and entity conducting business for Amgen worldwide follow its corporate policies as well as all applicable requirements that govern our business. Code of Conduct training is completed on an annual basis by all Amgen staff  
as well as any others who conduct business on behalf of Amgen.
Staff performance measurement has a strong 
ethical component—staff are assessed not just on what outcomes they produce but also on how they produce them. Annual performance assessments explicitly integrate Amgen’s Values, and staff are evaluated in terms of how well their execution of their job responsibilities is aligned with those values. Amgen’s leadership holds managers and staff accountable for ethical business conduct by enforcing standards through internal monitoring,investigating and auditing, responding promptly  
to detected problems, undertaking corrective actions and applying disciplinary measures  
where appropriate.
OPERATING  
RESPONSIBLY
OPERATING RESPONSIBLYAmgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report    15OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE PATIENTS COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Promoting Ethical Business Practices
Fighting serious illness takes more than innovation and medicine. It also requires collaborating withpeople and organizations around the world that advance science and provide quality healthcare forpatients. These relationships are built upon ethical and responsible business conduct and reliabledisclosure of information and are conducted with guidance from a number of Policies, Practices andDisclosures. Those policies include extensive requirements for staff interactions with healthcareprofessionals and government representatives to ensure that these interactions not only comply with all applicable laws and regulations but also that they are conducted in an ethical manner without conflicts of interest.In the United States, Amgen voluntarily  
complies with and fully supports the  
Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers  
of America’s (PhRMA) revised “Code on  
Interactions with Healthcare Professionals.”  
The Code, which took effect in January 2009, provides firm guidance on such interactions, including the use of promotional materials,  
grants and consulting arrangements, meals  
and entertainment, continuing medical  
education, clinical practice guidelines  
and sales and marketing training for  
company representatives.OPERATING RESPONSIBLY
FOR MORE INFORMATION 
Visit How We Operate on www.amgen.com.“At Amgen, performance is measured by both 
accomplishments and behaviors. It’s not just what we do but how we do it that matters.  
The Amgen Values and our Leadership Attributes provide the compass to help  
us all continue on an ethical path. ”  
—CYNTHIA M. PATTON, SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF COMPLIANCE OFFICER
OPERATING RESPONSIBLYAmgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report    16OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE PATIENTS COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Supplier Sustainability
Amgen continues to expand and enhance its Supplier Sustainability Program, which is designed to support our expectation that our suppliers not only address quality, cost and reliability requirements but also a wide range of sustainability and social responsibility considerations, such as business ethics, labor and human rights and environmental impacts.
In 2017, Amgen implemented the first phase of its 
Supplier Sustainability Assessment to evaluate theperformance of our key suppliers against the requirements of our Supplier Code of Conduct. This first phase focused on those suppliers that are most important to Amgen’s business because of the nature and/or volume of products or services they provide. The Assessment, conducted by an independent third party, provides the basis for increased understanding of suppliers’ performance across a wide range of issues, while ensuring that suppliers are aware of our performance expectations. Results of the Supplier Performance Assessment facilitate a dialogue with suppliers about areas where performance improvement should be focused.In the area of conflict minerals, Amgen will continue to identify, reduce and ultimately eliminate the useof conflict minerals—those that directly or indirectly finance armed groups in the Democratic Republicof the Congo and surrounding countries—in our products. The identification of potential use of conflict minerals in our supply chain is integrated into our Supplier Sustainability Program and  
annual assessment.
Amgen also has a Supplier Diversity Program 
that is designed to provide opportunities to small, disadvantaged, women-owned, minority-owned, service-disabled-veteran-owned or veteran-owned businesses that are seeking to do business with Amgen. Two key efforts within our Supplier Diversity Program are participation in events designed to inform small and diverse businesses of opportunities to engage with Amgen and our participation in organizations devoted to the promotion of diversity in the supply chain. Amgen is a corporate member of various key national associations that support supplier diversity, such as the National Minority Supplier Development Council and the Women’s Business Enterprise National Council. In addition, Amgen’s Supplier Diversity Liaison Officer Jinus Moghbeli Pashai is well recognized for her leadership on supplier diversity. In 2017, Women’s Enterprise magazine recognized her as one of the Top 100 Leaders in Corporate Supplier Diversity, and DiversityPlus Magazine recognized her as one 
of the Top 25 Women in Power Impacting Diversity.
FOR MORE INFORMATION 
Visit Supplier Sustainability in Responsibility on www.amgen.com.
OPERATING RESPONSIBLYOPERATING RESPONSIBLYAmgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report    17OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE PATIENTS COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
The Amgen Foundation, established in 1991,  
is the principal channel for Amgen’s corporate 
philanthropy efforts, providing a wide range of  support for communities throughout the world. Through effective philanthropy, the Foundation has helped to make the excitement of the sciences, the promise of science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) education, and the provision  of essential social services more accessible to members of the community.   
To date, the Foundation has contributed nearly $300 
million to local, regional and international nonprofit organizations that reflect Amgen’s core values and complement the company’s dedication to impacting lives in inspiring and innovative ways.
Support of Science Education
The Amgen Foundation places a strong emphasis on strengthening science education and is committed to investing in meaningful, evidence-based initiatives that make a difference at the local, national and international levels. The Amgen Foundation has two goals: inspiring the next generation of innovators and advancing scientific literacy. The Foundation pursues these goals with two complementary strategies: investing in science teachers and supporting compelling hands-on and virtual learning opportunities for students. To that end, the Amgen Foundation has contributed more than  
$130 million to advancing science education programming globally. 
The Amgen Scholars Program, launched in 2006, 
makes it possible for young scientists from around the 
globe to engage in cutting-edge research experiences and learn more about biotechnology and drug discovery. In fact, the program has opened the door for participating undergraduates from 700 colleges and universities to undertake research at elite institutions such as MIT, Stanford, Cambridge and the National Institutes of Health. There are more than 3,500 alumni since the program’s inception, many of whom are now pursuing hundreds of advanced scientific degree programs and careers, including over 200 who have earned their doctorate in a scientific field. Noteworthy  
in 2017, among many alumni accomplishments, Caltech Amgen Scholar alumnus Marvin Gee was named to the Forbes “30 Under 30” list in Healthcare for his entrepreneurial efforts as a co-founder of an  
innovative cancer therapy startup. COMMUNITYCOMMUNITY
“At its core, science is about community,  
about sharing ideas and searching for  
truth together. ”  
—2017 CALTECH AMGEN SCHOLAR SAMANTHA JENSENAmgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report    18OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE PATIENTS COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
The Amgen Biotech Experience (ABE) program, 
based on a community project initiated by Amgen 
scientists nearly 30 years ago, empowers teachers to bring biotechnology into their classrooms while engaging students in science through hands-on learning. In 2017, we expanded the program to nine new regions outside of the United States, with a goal of reaching 900,000 students across the globe by 2020. ABE students have shown significant learning gains in biotech, as well as an increased interest and confidence in doing science and biotechnology.In 2017, Amgen continued its partnership with the Khan Academy. The Amgen Foundation’s $3 million, three-year grant allows Khan Academy to create and provide free, high-quality biology lessons for students and teachers everywhere. With the Amgen Foundation’s support, Khan Academy has grown its biology offerings to more than 300 videos, 80 exercise sets and 195 articles. These resources are accessible to Khan Academy’s more than 60 million registered users from across 190 countries. 
Amgen Teach, which supports science teachers across Europe by providing training workshops and distance-learning events, has reached 3,000 teachers with trainings, impacting more than 440,000 students in 10 countries over the past three years. COMMUNITY
COMMUNITYAmgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report    19OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE PATIENTS COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Staff Volunteering and Philanthropy
Amgen staff share a strong ethic of giving back  
to their communities. Each year, thousands of  
Amgen staff generously devote their personal time, energy, talents and funds to a variety of charitable organizations around the world. Amgen and the  
Amgen Foundation support staff philanthropy  
through Amgen Volunteers, our Matching Gifts  
Program and company-sponsored volunteering.
Through Amgen Foundation’s Matching Gifts  
Program, staff donations plus matching funds from  
the Foundation totaled $7.8 million in 2017. The 
Matching Gifts Program provides a 1:1 match for  
staff donations to eligible nonprofit organizations  
from $50 up to $20,000 annually per staff member.
2017 marked the first full year of the Amgen Impact 
Day program. Through Impact Day, all full- and part-time regular, active staff members are eligible to take up to eight hours of paid time off per calendar year to volunteer in support of an effort of their choice. Staff contributed nearly 10,000 volunteer hours through  
this initiative and nearly 29,000 volunteer hours  
overall in 2017. Volunteer efforts are as diverse as the worldwide locations that comprise Amgen. In 2017, staff volunteered to support recovery in Houston, Texas, following Hurricane Harvey, helped prepare meals at a food bank in Canada and participated in a beach cleanup in Singapore in honor of World Environment Day, among many other activities. Amgen provides resources to support team-building experiences that strengthen workplace culture as team members volunteer together in communities. We were proud to be recognized with the Corporate Social Responsibility Program of the Year award by the Ireland Pharma Industry organization.
Staff from around the world volunteer as mentors 
to help students gain a greater understanding of science, technology, engineering and math (STEM). In 2017, Amgen was awarded an Excellence in Volunteer Mobilization award by US2020. US2020’s mission is to dramatically increase the number of STEM professionals engaged in high-quality STEM mentoring with youth in America, with a specific focus on programming that supports underserved and underrepresented students.COMMUNITY
COMMUNITYAmgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report    20OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE PATIENTS COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Supporting Communities in Times of Disaster
2017 was an unprecedented year for natural disasters—some of which hit very close to home for our business and staff. Hurricane Maria devastated Puerto Rico, the location of Amgen’s largest manufacturing facility. In the aftermath of this crisis that impacted 3.5 million people on the island, including more than 2,000 Amgen staff, Amgen demonstrated its resilience and commitment to responsibility in multiple ways. We continued to supply medicine for patients, uninterrupted by the state of emergency on the island. We ensured a broad safety net of resources for our  
staff, including water, gas and food.
In support of the local Juncos community, the Amgen 
Manufacturing Limited site provided diesel fuel for generators to help power the local hospital, dialysis clinic and grocery store. After the Municipality of Juncos had to cancel its traditional Christmas celebration, Amgen helped the festivities go on—funding a party for some 5,000 members of the community. The Amgen Foundation pledged $3 million to support urgent Hurricane Maria relief efforts in Puerto Rico, committing up to an additional $2 million for longer-term rebuilding efforts. Through the Disaster Relief Matching Program, both the Amgen Foundation and global staff members donated funds in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria and five additional natural disasters in 2017: Hurricanes Harvey and Irma, two severe earthquakes in Mexico and the Southern California wildfires.
“With their admirable dedication, our staff in 
Puerto Rico demonstrated their unwavering commitment to patients. We wanted to reflect that same commitment back to our staff at the site, to the Juncos community and to the island with which we have formed a close bond over the past 25 years. ”  
—KERRY INGALLS, VICE PRESIDENT, SITE OPERATIONSCOMMUNITY
FOR MORE INFORMATION 
Visit Responsibility on www.amgen.com.COMMUNITYAmgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report    21OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE PATIENTS COMMUNITY COMMITMENT ENVIRONMENT
Amgen believes in conducting our business in an 
environmentally sustainable manner. In alignment with our 2020 Environmental Sustainability Plan, in implementation since 2012, we integrate sustainable practices throughout our business, leveraging our culture of innovation to deliver improvements and drive performance. We have demonstrated that practices that benefit the environment also benefit  
our operations as a whole.
 Our Targets
To reduce our environmental footprint, we harness innovative tools, techniques, facilities and equipment. We set our 2020 environmental targets by establishing reduction quantities based on our 2012 baseline performance. We have created a portfolio of projects and initiatives that we implement to achieve the targeted reductions. We track progress towards our targets through verified results from these improvement projects, without influence from growth or contraction  
in our business. We are progressing ahead of our plan towards meeting these targets.  
Progress Through 2017 2020 Target
Waste  Reduce 1,490 metric tons (MT) of waste  
to landfill or incineration 
35% of 2012 baseline
Water Reduce 269,000 cubic meters (CM)
10% of 2012 baselineCarbon Reduce 3,000 metric tons (MT) of fleet carbon
20% of 2012 baseline
Carbon Reduce 38,500 metric tons (MT) of facility carbon 
10% of 2012 baseline34,500 MT
1,038 MT3,000 MT
0%        20%              40%              60%               80%        100%  266,000 CM
2012 Baseline 2020 TargetENVIRONMENT
“The cheapest, cleanest unit of energy is the 
one you don’t use. A major contributor to our energy and carbon reduction achievements at Amgen has been strategic energy-saving projects, which follow this basic idea that it’s better to conserve energy in the first place. ”
—DEREK MULLINS, ENERGY MANAGERAmgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report    22OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE PATIENTS COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Reducing Carbon Through Energy Conservation
Amgen implements a comprehensive carbon reduction strategy that focuses on eliminating energy use where possible, increasing energy efficiency and increasing the proportion of energy used from renewable and alternative sources. We complete energy-related projects that provide substantial returns for both energy savings and carbon reduction across our network of facilities around the world. We have realized savings of $28 million in operating costs annually and reduced carbon emissions by 118,200 metric tons (MT), or 28 percent, from 2007 through 2017 by implementing energy conservation and carbon reduction projects. In addition to operations-based projects, we also take steps to reduce carbon output from our business by encouraging alternative methods of commuting to work, such as carpooling and providing electric  
vehicle charging stations at some facilities.
Highlights of our energy and carbon program in  
2017 include: 
•  Continued use of our facility data evaluation program 
conserved 67,800 gigajoules (GJ) at Amgen’s  
U.S.-based locations. This program was selected to be presented at the 2017 ENERGY STAR
® Industrial Partner Meetings and was recognized by the Association of Energy Engineers as an Energy  
Project of the Year. 
•  Implementation of new air exchange reduction and air handling conservation projects at two U.S. manufacturing sites resulting in an energy reduction of 5,200 GJ.
•  Expanding the evaluation of Scope 3 emissions associated with our business to include carbon emissions from waste generated from operations  
and from staff commuting. 
Carbon Emissions and Carbon Emissions Reduced Through Conservation Efforts (1,000 MT)  2017 Energy Use by Source (1,000 GJ)Natural Gas
Fossil FuelScope 1 Sources
Scope 2 SourcesDiesel
RenewablesPropane
Nuclear
Nonspecified* Value represents year-over-year,  
cumulative and continuing avoidance.Carbon Emissions
Carbon Emissions Avoided* 
from 2007 Through 2012
Carbon Emissions 
Avoided* 2013+ENVIRONMENT
500
400
300200
100
014
201536984431
1,039
39881,1001418
8
201336384
201238584 20
201684
29134
201784
278
200741610
201484
354ENVIRONMENTOPERATING RESPONSIBLY ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE PATIENTS COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report    23
Conserving Water: a Precious Resource
Water is vital for the manufacture of our medicines.  
To conserve this precious resource, we have developed water-saving practices and strategic projects based on assessments of our water use and available opportunities for conservation. Our total water use company-wide in 2017 declined slightly from 2016. Water conservation projects implemented in 2017 resulted in an additional 63,000 cubic meters (CM) of annual water reduction to achieve a total of 266,000 CM since establishing our 2020 targets in 2013. We have reduced annual water usage through projects eliminating 952,000 CM, or 29 percent, since 2007. Highlights of our water conservation program in  
2017 include: 
•  Use of next-generation biomanufacturing technologies 
that reduce the volume of water required to maintain manufacturing equipment and spaces. 
•  Conservation of approximately 11,000 CM of water resulting from engineering projects to optimize heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems.
Water Intake and Intake Avoided Through Conservation Efforts (1,000 CM)  * Value represents year-over-year,  
cumulative and continuing avoidance.Water Intake
Water Intake Avoided* 
from 2007 Through 2012
Water Intake 
Avoided* 2013+3,5004,000
3,000
2,5002,000
1,500
1,000
500
0142
20152,520686
20122,720686203
2016686
2,351266
2017686
2,320
20073,28636
2014686
2,487ENVIRONMENT
19
20132,725686
ENVIRONMENTOPERATING RESPONSIBLY ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE PATIENTS COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report    24
Reducing Waste 
Our waste management program has matured over the years as we have sought more opportunities to reduce waste and as more opportunities and technologies have become available for recycling and composting. We strive to eliminate waste within the constraints of our regulated biopharmaceutical business. Total waste generation company-wide decreased in 2017 from 2016. Waste reduction projects implemented in 2017 resulted in an additional 188 metric tons (MT) of annual waste reduction to achieve a total of 1,038 MT since establishing our 2020 targets in 2013. We have reduced annual waste generation through projects eliminating 2,132 MT, or 21 percent,  
since 2007. Highlights of our waste reduction and recycling program for 2017 include: •  Expansion of our program to recycle plastics used in manufacturing at our Rhode Island and our Woburn, Massachusetts, facilities. This program diverted 141 MT of these plastics from the landfill and repurposed them for industrial uses. 
•  Expansion of our program to reuse shipping containers used in distributing clinical products. 
•  Diversion from landfill of approximately 129 MT of equipment and materials that were reused within Amgen’s network or by external purchasers or beneficiaries through our Surplus Asset Management Program. 
Routine Waste by Waste Hierarchy (MT)Recycled, Composted 
and Reused
DisposedWaste Reduced* from 2007 Through 2012Waste Reduced* 
from 2013+ENVIRONMENT
100%
90%
80%
70%
60%50%
40%
30%20%10%
0
20124,2564,7621,094320
20134,2874,4931,094688
20154,8195,2351,094850
20161,094
5,517
4,8141038
20171,094
4,790
5,067
20076,6043,542441
20144,5011,094
4,429
* Value represents year-over-year,  
cumulative and continuing avoidance.
ENVIRONMENTOPERATING RESPONSIBLY ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE PATIENTS COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report    25
Sustainable by Design 
In line with our 2020 Environmental Sustainability Plan, we are integrating environmentally sustainable practices throughout our complex, global business. Since we formalized our Environmental Sustainability program, creative, smart thinking along with advances in technology and infrastructure help to drive practices more deeply into our operations.
Sustainable Manufacturing Facility Licensed in 2017
In May 2017, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration licensed Amgen’s pioneering next-generation biomanufacturing plant in Singapore for commercial production of biologic drug substance. The plant’s modular, flexible design fits in a smaller footprint than a conventional plant and boasts more environmentally friendly technology. Compared with the manufacture of the same amount of product in a traditional facility, the plant has so far demonstrated annualized reductions of approximately 268,000 gigajoules of energy, 8,800 metric tons of carbon and 82,000 cubic meters of water.
Amgen Wins Prestigious Green Chemistry Award
Amgen was honored to be the recipient of the  
2017 Green Chemistry Challenge Award for practices, developed in partnership with manufacturing partner, Bachem, which improved the environmental footprint  
of our synthetic peptide drug, Parsabiv™ (etelcalcetide).  Our approach is based on the 12 principles of Green Chemistry, which include the minimization of toxicity  
and waste and conservation of energy and water.
“The green chemistry approach developed and implemented 
by Amgen and Bachem for the manufacture of Parsabiv™ is an excellent example of scientific innovation resulting in both the evolution of our manufacturing technology and benefits to the environment,” said Margaret Faul, executive director, Process Development. 
Manufacturing Plastics Program Expanded
In 2017, we expanded our program to recycle even more plastics generated from biomanufacturing, such as gloves, tubing, pipette tips and other plastics. We sent 141 metric tons of plastics to a special waste processing plant, at cost to Amgen, where they are processed into industrial-grade plastics for use in benches, pallets, and road curbs, among other uses.
“We are proud to have been able to propose and implement 
a solution that helps promote environmental protection,” said Jim Rawley, manager, Environment, Health, Safety and Sustainability. “Recycling these plastics helps reduce the amount of raw material used in certain products and reduces plastics in our waste stream.”ENVIRONMENT
ENVIRONMENT
FOR MORE INFORMATION 
Visit Environment in Responsibility on www.amgen.com.Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report    26OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE PATIENTS COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
While we work to develop treatments to take care 
of others, we also prioritize care for the people contributing to these advances: our staff. We  
strive to create an inclusive, safe and healthy  
work environment.
Amgen’s Safety Culture
At Amgen, we pride ourselves on being a dynamic, innovative company. In the midst of change, ourculture of safety is a constant.
We work towards creating a world-class safety 
culture through safety leadership and risk management practices, integrating safety throughout our business processes. We  
strive to make safety a fundamental part  
of how staff operate in all functions.
In 2017, we set a high bar for safety, targeting 
a goal of equal or less than 0.30 incidents per 100 staff. Though we fell short of our goal, we did improve our record throughout the year, moving from 0.44 to 0.35 overall. We attribute this positive movement to focused safety programs we accomplished throughout the year, including sustained improvements for safety in our Research and Development function and our Manufacturing Safety Improvement Plan.Wellness and the Work EnvironmentAmgen staff members drive our commitment to delivering innovative therapeutics that improve human health. We empower staff to pursue healthy lifestyles themselves by supporting access to resources and facilities, including fitness facilities and memberships, healthy eating options and many health-oriented promotions and events throughout the year. In 2017, we initiated MOVE MORE, a new health promotion program to help make moving part of staff members’ daily routine. Our popular, annual Walk to Wellness program celebrated its 10th year in 2017. More than 3,000 staff and their spouses/partners took part in the challenge, logging nearly 700 million total steps.
As an extension of our focus on a healthy workplace 
culture, in 2017, CEO Robert Bradway joined theAmerican Heart Association CEO Roundtable, a leadership collaborative of more than 35 CEOs dedicated to improving cardiovascular health in their workplaces and in local communities. The CEO Roundtable is helping to scale up evidence-based standards and best practices to support the AHA’s goal of achieving a 20 percent improvement in the cardiovascular health of all Americans by 2020. 
WORKPLACE
FOR MORE INFORMATION 
Visit Safety and Wellness in Responsibility on www.amgen.com.“Our staff are critical to our company. 
Providing a safe and healthy environment where staff can continue to innovate and do their best work is essential to Amgen’s success. ”
— ESTEBAN SANTOS, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, OPERATIONSWORKPLACEAmgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report    27OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE PATIENTS COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Workspace Renovations Support an Innovative, 
Healthy CultureIn 2017, Amgen made significant progress with the rollout of office and lab space renovations that fit anactivity-based working model. These varied workspaces support Amgen’s collaborative, innovative culture and provide a healthy, vibrant work environment for staff. These workspaces contain abundant natural light and a choice of flexible work areas adapted to the variety of tasks staff perform throughout the day. We further support staff health in these spaces by providing ergonomic equipment and workstations and encouraging staff to make movement an important part of their daily work routine. Multiple guided stretch breaks are incorporated in the design, as well as stretch stations with instruction cards. These workspaces also offer wellness rooms to recharge.
Diversity and Inclusion
At Amgen, we understand that to successfully sustain and grow as a global enterprise we must ensure a diverse and inclusive work environment. We believe that an environment of inclusion fostersinnovation, which drives our ability to serve patients. We actively recruit to foster diverse points of view.We are proud to say that 51 percent of our global workforce is female, and the total minority population of our U.S. workforce is 35 percent.With endorsement from senior management and engagement with senior leaders across theorganization, Amgen has implemented a global strategy designed to leverage our diversity and create a more inclusive workplace. This diversity and inclusion strategy establishes priorities that serve as a baseline for measuring our progress towards a more inclusive workplace. We provide leaders and managers with training and tools to lead a diverse workforce and create an inclusive environment.
Amgen has nine executive-sponsored Employee 
Resource Groups that are organized around a primary diversity attribute and promote employee development, professional growth and inclusion.  
In 2017, chapters of these Employee Resource Groups grew to more than 20 around the world. Amgen received a perfect score of 100 percent on the 2017 Corporate Equality Index (CEI). CEI is a national benchmarking survey and report on corporate policies and practices related to LGBT workplace equality, administered by the Human Rights Campaign Foundation. We continue to pride ourselves on industry-leading offerings for families of all compositions and in 2017, added transgender benefits to our package.
WORKPLACE
WORKPLACE
FOR MORE INFORMATION 
Visit Diversity and Inclusion in Responsibility on www.amgen.com.Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report    28OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE PATIENTS COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Amgen communicates its progress in environmental sustainability 
and social responsibility in a variety of ways. We provide information on our website, participate in industry conferencesand workshops, provide information to external organizations  
and produce annual reports.
Amgen is committed to aligning our reporting with respected 
global standards. This Responsibility Highlights Report, which covers the practices of our global company (see the Amgen fact sheet for locations), contains Standard Disclosures from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. The GRI Guidelines offer a useful framework to help companies standardize their sustainability reporting. Our GRI index, available on www.amgen.com, summarizes Amgen’s reporting in relation to the GRI G4 indicators.A full set of environmental performance data is also available on our website. We measure and report, on an annual basis, our overall energy and carbon, water, waste and sales fleet fuel efficiency performance. We include data gathered from 19 manufacturing, research and development and distribution facilities in North America, South America, Eurasia, Asia and Europe, representing approximately 94 percent of our operations—based on our facilities’ square footage. The remaining square footage includes primarily administrative offices. Recently acquired facilities are outside the scope of our reporting. Our 2017 environmental and safety data have undergone limited assurance by Bureau Veritas North America.
Above and beyond our use of the GRI Guidelines as a  
framework for reporting, other key reporting commitments  
include the following:•  Donations and grants made by the company and the  
Amgen Foundation
• Political contributions in the U.S.
•  Disclosures in alignment with the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations codes of practice
•  Securities and Exchange Commission—required  
financial reporting
•  Responses to CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) investor requests for climate change and water information
•  Complete environmental data, which is available in 
Responsibility on Amgen.com
• UN Global Compact annual Communication on Progress• Alignment with relevant Sustainable Development GoalsREPORTING
Type Unit 2007 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017
Total Energy (a) 1,000 GJ 4,341 3,849 3,817 3,706 3,812 3,535 3,709
Total Carbon From Energy (a) 1,000 MT CO2Eq 416 385 363 354 369 291 278
Total Water Withdrawal (a) 1,000 CM 3,286 2,720 2,725 2,487 2,520 2,351 2,320
Total Routine Waste (a) MT 10,146 9,018 8,780 8,929 10,054 10,330 9,856
Environmental Notices of Violation (NOVs) (b) 1 NOV 8 2 2 6 1 1 1
Staff Injury and Illness Rate Incidents per 100 workers 0.81 0.56 0.57 0.42 0.37 0.44 0.35
Staff Lost Day Case Rate Incidents per 100 workers 0.25 0.17 0.11 0.12 0.12 0.14 0.11
Amgen Staff (FTE) People 17,500 17,900 20,000 17,900 17,900 19,200 20,800
Net Sales $ Millions 14,311 16,639 18,192 19,327 20,944 21,892 21,795
Non-GAAP Net Income (c) $ Millions 4,804 5,119 5,814 6,700 7,954 8,785 9,246
Non-GAAP R&D Expenses (c) $ Millions 3,064 3,296 3,929 4,121 3,917 3,755 3,482
 
For additional environment, safety and financial performance data, please see www.amgen.com.REPORTINGAmgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report    29OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE PATIENTS COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
REPORTING
Data Notes  
a)  Please see Responsibility/Environment on amgen.com for an Independent Verification Statement for this data. Amgen has included data from 19 facilities covering energy and carbon, water and waste. The facilities represent approximately 94 percent of Amgen’s worldwide facility space 
based on total square feet. Included facilities are in Thousand Oaks, California, U.S.; West Greenwich, Rhode Island, U.S.; Longmont, Colorado, U.S.; Bothell, Washington, U.S.; Juncos, Puerto Rico, U.S.; Louisville, Kentucky, U.S.; South San Francisco, California, U.S.; Cambridge and 
Woburn, Massachusetts, U.S.; Burnaby, Canada; Breda, Netherlands; Dun Laoghaire, Ireland; Uxbridge, Abingdon and Cambridge, United Kingdom; São Paulo, Brazil; Yenibosna and Sekerpinar, Turkey; and Tuas, Singapore. This includes leased buildings where we have operational control 
over building infrastructure, including utilities. 
b)  Environmental notices of violation (NOVs) reported that resulted from agency inspections.
c)  Amgen Inc. Reconciliations of GAAP to Non-GAAP Measures (Unaudited) ($ In millions)
Years ended December 31,
2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2007
GAAP research and development expenses  $              3,562  $              3,840  $              4,070  $              4,297 $              4,083 $              3,380 $              3,266 
     Adjustments to research and development expenses:
          Acquisition-related expenses (a) (77)  (78)  (89)  (124)  (142)  (50)  (100)
          Certain charges pursuant to our restructuring and other cost savings initiatives (b) (3)  (7)  (64)  (49)  -  (12)  (19)
          Stock option expense -  -  -  (3)  (12)  (22)   (83)   
     Total adjustments to research and development expenses (80)  (85)  (153)  (176)  (154)  (84)  (202)
Non-GAAP research and development expenses $              3,482  $              3,755  $              3,917  $              4,121  $              3,929  $              3,296 $              3,064 
GAAP operating income $              9,973  $              9,794  $              8,470  $              6,191  $              5,867  $              5,577  $              3,980 
     Adjustments to operating income:          Acquisition-related expenses (c) 1,594  1,510  1,377  1,546  986  470  1,016 
          Certain charges pursuant to our restructuring and other cost savings initiatives (b) 88  37  114  596  71  347  739 
          Expense/(benefit) related to various legal proceedings  -  105  91  (3)  14  64  34 
          Stock option expense -  -  -  16  34  59  181 
          Expense resulting from clarified guidance on branded prescription drug fee (d)  -  -  -  129  -  -  - 
          Write-off of inventory (e)  -  -  -  -  -  -  90 
          Write-off of manufacturing asset (f)  -  -  -  -  -  -  30 
          Other 3
     Total adjustments to operating income 1,685  1,652  1,582  2,284  1,105  940  2,090 
Non-GAAP operating income  $          11,658  $            11,446  $            10,052  $              8,475  $              6,972  $              6,517  $              6,070 
GAAP net income  $            1,979  $              7,722  $              6,939  $              5,158  $              5,081  $              4,345  $              3,078 
     Adjustments to net income:          Adjustments to operating income 1,685  1,652  1,582  2,284  1,105  940  2,090 
          Adjustments to other income (g)  -  -  -  -  12  140  219 
          Income tax effect of the above adjustments (h) (538)  (525)  (496)  (717)  (376)  (329)  (491)
     Other income tax adjustments (i) 6,120  (64)  (71)  (25)  (30)  23  (92)
Non-GAAP net income  $            9,246  $              8,785  $              7,954  $              6,700  $              5,814  $              5,119  $              4,804 
(a) The adjustments related primarily to non-cash amortization of intangible assets acquired in business combinations.
(b) The adjustments related to headcount charges, such as severance, and to asset charges, such as asset impairments, accelerated depreciation and other charges related to the closure of our facilities. For the year ended December 31, 2015, the adjustment included gains recognized on the sale of assets related to our site closures.
(c)  The adjustments related primarily to acquisition-related expenses associated with various acquisitions including, but not limited to, non-cash amortization of acquired intangible assets and changes in estimated fair values of contingent consideration. For the year ended December 31, 2017, the adjustment included net charges associated with the discontinuance 
of the internal development of AMG 899. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the adjustment included the write-off of certain acquired in-process research and development.
(d) The adjustment related to the recognition of an additional year of the non-tax deductible branded prescription drug fee, as required by final regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service.
(e) The adjustment related to the write-off of inventory primarily due to changing regulatory and reimbursement environments.
(f)  The adjustment related to the write-off of a semi-completed manufacturing asset that was not used due to a change in manufacturing strategy.
(g) The adjustments related primarily to non-cash interest expense associated with our convertible notes. For the year ended December 31, 2013, the adjustment included bridge financing costs associated with the Onyx business combination.
(h)  The tax effect of the adjustments between our GAAP and non-GAAP results takes into account the tax treatment and related tax rate(s) that apply to each adjustment in the applicable tax jurisdiction(s). Generally, this results in a tax impact at the U.S. marginal tax rate for certain adjustments, including the majority of amortization of intangible assets, whereas the tax impact of other adjustments, including restructuring expense, depends on whether the amounts are deductible in the respective tax jurisdictions and the applicable tax rate(s) in those jurisdictions.
(i)  For the year ended December 31, 2017, the adjustment related primarily to the impact of U.S. Corporate tax reform, including the repatriation tax on accumulated foreign earnings and the remeasurement of certain net deferred and other tax liabilities. For all other years, the adjustments related to certain prior period items excluded from GAAP earnings, as well as 
resolving certain non-routine transfer-pricing and acquisition-related issues with tax authorities, as applicable.REPORTINGAmgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report    30OPERATING RESPONSIBLY ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE PATIENTS COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Communication on Progress–UN Global Compact 
This 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report serves as Amgen’s Communication on Progress for the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). The statement from our Chief Executive Officer at the beginning of the report reaffirms our commitment to the principles of the UNGC, and much of the content throughoutthe report highlights progress in the four key areas of the UNGC: Environment, Labor, Human Rights and Anti-Corruption. In addition, this section includes a summary of some of the 2017 progress most relevant to the UNGC, as well as a table that provides a listing of where additional information aboutrelevant programs and policies can be found.
Highlights of Progress
Many of Amgen’s programs, procedures, policies and reporting are well aligned with the UNGC principles, and we continue to work to enhance our approaches and performance in alignment with those principles. Over the last 12 months, some of the progress that has been achieved includes the following:• Amgen scientists have pioneered a new biomanufacturing paradigm that is leaner, greener, more flexible and productive and less costly to build and operate. (See Environment sectionof this report for more details.)
• With endorsement and engagement from senior management 
across the organization, Amgen has implemented a global diversity and inclusion strategy designed to create a moreinclusive workplace. (See the Workplace section of this report  
for more details.)
• Amgen continues to expand and enhance its Supplier 
Sustainability Program, which is designed to support our expectation that our suppliers not only address quality, cost andreliability requirements but also a wide range of sustainability and social responsibility considerations. (See the Operating Responsibly section of this report for more details.)
• The United States Environmental Protection Agency has 
honored Amgen with a 2017 Green Chemistry Challenge Award for its work, in conjunction with its manufacturing partnerBachem, in applying green chemistry practices. (See the Environment section of this report for more details.)
• The Amgen Foundation announced a three-year, $10.5 million 
grant to expand the Amgen Biotech Experience in the U.S. and across the globe, which will allow the program to engage nearly 900,000 high school students by 2020. (See the Community section of this report for more details.)
• During 2017, Amgen expanded its partnership with the Union 
for International Cancer Control’s C/Can 2025: City Cancer Challenge to support improved health systems and address the growing burden of noncommunicable diseases around the world. (See the Patients section of this report for more details.)
• In 2017, we established a new Global Advocacy Relations team 
to better understand and incorporate the patient community voice early on as we develop and commercialize our medicines, as well as to positively impact the healthcare environment in support of access to treatment for patients. (See the Patients section of this report for more details.)
REPORTINGREPORTINGOPERATING RESPONSIBLY ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE PATIENTS COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report    31REPORTING
UNGC Principles Categories
Amgen Policies, Programs and Reporting Human Rights Labor Environment Anti-Corruption
Responsibility Highlights Report
Commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility  
Staff Code of Conduct  
Diversity and Inclusion    
Access to Medicine    
Employee Health and Safety   
Employee Wellness    
Environment, Health and Safety Policy   
Non-Discrimination    
Environmental Sustainability Commitment    
Environmental Sustainability Performance    
Amgen Foundation
Supplier Sustainability
California Supply Chain Transparency Act
Conflict Minerals Policy
Conflict Minerals Report
Supplier Diversity
Anti-Corruption and U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices
Interactions with Healthcare ProvidersSummary of Relevant Reporting 
In addition to this report, Amgen provides extensive reporting on policies and progress aligned with the UNGC on our website. Below is a summary table providing links to existing reporting aligned with the
major categories of UNGC principles.REPORTINGOPERATING RESPONSIBLY ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE PATIENTS COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report    32REPORTING
UNGC Principles Categories
Amgen Policies, Programs and Reporting Human Rights Labor Environment Anti-Corruption
Counterfeit Drugs
Global Patient Safety  
Grants and Giving  
Antitrust and Unfair Competition Policy   
Dealing with the Government Policy    
Compliance Reporting and Non-Retaliation   
Insider Trading Policy    
Protection of Personal Information Policy   
Awards and Accolades    Summary of Relevant Reporting (continued)REPORTINGOPERATING RESPONSIBLY ENVIRONMENT REPORTING WORKPLACE PATIENTS COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report    33
REPORTING
Forward-Looking Statements 
This communication contains forward-looking statements that are based on the current expectations and beliefs of Amgen. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including estimates of revenues, operating margins, capital expenditures, cash, other financial metrics, expected legal, arbitration, political, regulatory or clinical results or practices, customer and prescriber patterns or practices, reimbursement activities and outcomes and other such estimates and results. Forward-looking statements involve significant risks and uncertainties, including those discussed below and more fully described in the Securities and Exchange Commission reports filed by Amgen, including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and any subsequent periodic reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Unless otherwise noted, Amgen is providing this information as of the date of this communication and does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
No forward-looking statement can be guaranteed and actual results may differ materially from those we project. Our results may be affected by our ability to successfully market both new and existing products 
domestically and internationally, clinical and regulatory developments involving current and future products, sales growth of recently launched products, competition from other products including biosimilars, difficulties or delays in manufacturing our products and global economic conditions. In addition, sales of our products are affected by pricing pressure, political and public scrutiny and reimbursement policies imposed by third-party payers, including governments, private insurance plans and managed care providers and may be affected by regulatory, clinical and guideline developments and domestic and international trends toward managed care and healthcare cost containment. Furthermore, our research, testing, pricing, marketing and other operations are subject to extensive regulation by domestic and foreign government regulatory authorities. Our business may be impacted by government investigations, litigation and product liability claims. In addition, our business may be impacted by the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities. If we fail to meet the compliance obligations in the corporate integrity agreement between us and the U.S. government, we could become subject to significant sanctions. Further, while we routinely obtain patents for our products and technology, the protection offered by our patents and patent applications may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by our competitors, or we may fail to prevail in present and future intellectual property litigation. We perform a substantial amount of our commercial manufacturing activities at a few key facilities, including in Puerto Rico, and also depend on third parties for a portion of our manufacturing activities, and limits on supply may constrain sales of certain of our current products and product candidate development. In addition, we compete with other companies with respect to many of our marketed products as well as for the discovery and development of new products. Further, some raw materials, medical devices and component parts for our products are supplied by sole third-party suppliers. Certain of our distributors, customers and payers have substantial purchasing leverage in their dealings with us. The discovery of significant problems with a product similar to one of our products that implicate an entire class of products could have a material adverse effect on sales of the affected products and on our business and results of operations. Our efforts to acquire other companies or products and to integrate the operations of companies we have acquired may not be successful. A breakdown, cyberattack or information security breach could compromise the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our systems and our data. Our stock price is volatile and may be affected by a number of events. Our business performance could affect or limit the ability of our Board of Directors to declare a dividend or our ability to pay a dividend or repurchase our common stock. We may not be able to access the capital and credit markets on terms that are favorable to us, or at all.REPORTINGAmgen Inc.  
One Amgen Center Drive 
Thousand Oaks, CA 91320-1799 www.amgen.com
© 2018 Amgen Inc. All rights reserved. May 2018.