print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.indd
ENGINEERING GOOD.
 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT2019
PUBLICATION DATE: MAY 2020
 12-MONTH PERIOD ENDING DECEMBER 31, 2019print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.indd
PROTECTING AND REGENERATING THE ENVIRONMENT
COMPANY INITIATIVES
OUR GOALS
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS REDUCTION
ENERGY EFFICIENCY
W ATER CONSERV ATION
W ASTE GENERATION
SYSTEMS AND COMPLIANCE
OFFICE EFFICIENCYOUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH
OUR STRATEGY AND PRIORITIES
INNOV ATING FOR THE ENVIRONMENTPROMOTING GOOD GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
DIRECTOR PROFILE
SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT  
COMPLIANCE AND BUSINESS ETHICSABOUT OUR COMPANY
WHO WE ARE
AW ARDS AND RECOGNITION
OUR IMPACT
RESPONDING TO COVID-19
IMPACT THROUGH ENGAGEMENT
APPENDIX
ABOUT THIS REPORT
GRI INDEX
UN SUSTAINABILITY GOALS 
FORW ARD-THINKING STATEMENTMESSAGE FROM OUR CEO EMPOWERING PEOPLE
MESSAGE FROM OUR CPO
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
WORKFORCE DATA SNAPSHOT
COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS
TALENT DEVELOPMENT
WORKER SAFETYTABLE OF CONTENTS
2 2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTprint scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.indd
MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO 
Throughout ADI’s 55-year history, we have successfully navigated 
and adapted to changing global dynamics. Our ability to do so—and 
our commitment to solving the world’s toughest problems while we 
engineer a better future—has become even more evident during the 
unprecedented challenges faced as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
 
For example, ADI stepped in to help meet the needs of the medical 
community by shifting towards technologies that support the global 
response to the crisis. This included increasing the production of 
components for critical point-of-care solutions, such as ventilators, 
infusion pumps and diagnostic imaging systems.
 
And our impact extends beyond our own capabilities and facilities. 
The Analog Devices Foundation made donations of $4 million to the 
World Health Organization’s COVID-19 Solidarity Response Fund and 
was a key supporter of the Global Citizen “One World: Together At 
Home” campaign. Additionally, the foundation donated $500,000 to 
Massachusetts General Hospital’s Vaccine and Immunotherapy Center, 
which will further advance the importance of testing and vaccine 
research at the center.Combined, these efforts underscore our shared purpose and 
commitment to our role as corporate citizens and are a testament  
to what we can achieve when we align around solving complex  
problems together.
 
As we look beyond the immediate challenges  
of our current environment, we believe  
there is much more we can do to leverage  
our expertise to make a positive impact  
on the world around us. 
VINCENT ROCHE
CHIEF EXECUTIVE  
OFFICER
3 2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTprint scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.indd
ADI is driven by the opportunity to play an important 
role in the transition towards a more stakeholder-
centric world. Our company goals revolve around having 
a solid, yet adaptable business model that meets 
the needs of our end customers, while maintaining 
consistency between our values and our actions.
 
This means reducing the negative environmental 
impact of our business, while striving to deliver 
solutions that can actually make a positive impact and 
support regeneration goals. We are also focused on our 
social impact, ranging from the empowerment of our 
own people, to making a positive impact on the world 
and communities around us.
 
In fiscal 2019, we made significant progress against 
each of our sustainability priorities. We made 
significant strides toward our goal of reducing our 
global direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by 
50% by 2025 compared to our 2015 baseline. We also 
continued our longstanding support of STEM education 
initiatives, which has included FIRST Robotics since 
1965. We are proud to be delivering meaningful results 
as we work towards our goals.And we are off to a strong start in fiscal 2020,  
building on last year’s progress. We established the  
ADI Foundation to formalize the company’s philanthropy  
and charitable giving. In April, ADI announced the 
successful issuance of the company’s inaugural green 
bond—the first in our industry— to help finance or 
refinance eligible projects that offer environmental 
sustainability benefits.
 
This is all possible due to our talented employees, 
who bring their ingenuity and energy to trailblazing 
new sustainability solutions every day. Together, 
we will continue to find new ways to leverage our 
leading technology, domain expertise and customer 
relationships to deliver a more sustainable future for 
generations to come.
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 4VINCENT ROCHE
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERProtect and Regenerate the Environment  
We will deliver solutions that reduce our 
carbon and environmental footprint, as 
well as restore and replenish our natural 
resources and ecosystems.
Empower People
We aim to create opportunities for people and 
make a meaningful impact on their lives—both 
at ADI and in the broader community.
Impact Through Engagement
We will leverage the ingenuity of our  
people to drive positive change and help  
solve real-world problems that benefit our 
lives, our communities and our planet.MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddABOUT OUR COMPANY
5 2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTprint scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddABOUT OUR COMPANY
WHO WE ARE
Our Values
Innovate with Impact  
We use innovation, continuous learning and  
customer success to deliver value faster than  
our competition.
Create the Future  
We form long-term, win-win alliances with our 
customers, partners, employees and the communities  
we serve.Maximize Our Potential  
We achieve extraordinary things when we bring  
together diverse voices and foster a culture of 
inclusivity and invention.
Execute with Excellence
We deliver the highest quality, easy-to-use and 
sustainable technologies that solve our customers’ 
greatest challenges.Move with Agility
We empower our people with the freedom to act with 
courage, disrupt, experiment, take calculated risks and  
be decisive.
Share Our Success
We celebrate achievements, create prosperity  
and share our success with our people, community  
and investors.
We are insatiably 
curious problem 
solvers who 
transform  
people’s lives.
Our Purpose  
To invent and deliver the innovations behind the 
world’s most advanced technologies.
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
6print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddBY-THE-NUMBERS SNAPSHOT
Technologies for Today and Tomorrow
Consumer
34%  United States
23%  Europe
22%  China11% Japan
9% Rest of Asia
1% Rest of North/South America
ABOUT OUR COMPANY
13
16
21
5013%
16%
21%
50%Automotive
Communications
Industrial Autonomous Transportation  
and MachinesAutomotive  
Electrification5G and Next-Gen  
ConnectivityDigital Health Industry 4.0  
and Smart EnergyImmersive Consumer  
Experiences
Background  
Founded: 1965
Headquarters: Norwood, MA
Employees: 16,000+
Countries: 30+
Worldwide sales, field applications, engineers,  
distribution, design and technical support
Products: ~45,000 SKUs
Customers: 125,000+
Publicly Listed—NASDAQ: ADI
Design Centers: ~44
Global Manufacturing: 
U.S. (Massachusetts, California, Washington)
Ireland | Philippines | Malaysia2019 Revenue: $6 Billion 2019 Revenue by Regions:
Copyright © F ree Vector Maps.com
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
7print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddCorporate Reputation
Employer AwardsAnalog Devices CEO, Vincent Roche  | Awarded to corporate leaders based on essential  
leadership qualities
Rankings based on employee evaluations
Rankings based on employee satisfaction
Ranked one of the top 15 largest Bay Area employers The world's top three-year performing companies in revenues, profits and stock
Awarded to the world’s most innovative organizations which successfully develop  
patented inventions that also have strong commercialization potential Performance based on matters related to corporate justness
The top 100 public companies that are shaping the digital economy Index of the most sustainable corporations of the worldAW ARDS AND RECOGNITIONABOUT OUR COMPANY
Forbes’ 100 Most Innovative Leaders Fortune 100 Fastest-Growing Companies
The Boston Globe’s Top Places to WorkForbes America’s Best Large Employers 
Silicon Valley Business Journal’s Best Places to Work 2019 2019
2017-
2020
2017-
2020
2018-
2019
2017-
20192020
2019
2019Derwent Top 100 Global Innovators™
Forbes’ Top 100 Global  
Digital CompaniesJust Capital Just 100
Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations  
in the World by Corporate Knights
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
8print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.indd
OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH
9 2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTprint scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddOUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH
OUR STRATEGY AND PRIORITIES
We believe that sustainability is about delivering holistic solutions to ensure we are making a real, 
demonstrable impact in the world.
Protect and Regenerate  
the Environment  
While we are focused on reducing our carbon footprint 
and our impact on the environment today, we also 
strive to deliver an even greater environmental impact. 
Our goal is to make meaningful progress against 
environmental regeneration efforts and partner with 
our customers to help them solve their sustainability 
challenges. We leverage our expertise to develop new 
solutions to help restore natural resources, regenerate 
the quality of our biosphere and reduce carbon. Empower People
We are committed to helping our employees thrive 
through education, inclusion and support. We are 
focused on building programs within ADI to enhance  
our diverse and accepting workplace culture, while  
also broadening availability to STEM education, training 
and employment to impoverished communities across 
the globe.Impact Through Engagement
ADI takes an active role in addressing problems that 
impact our employees, our communities and our planet. 
We stand behind our employee engagement efforts and 
are proud to contribute to their causes, including our 
recent donation-matching program for The World Health 
Organization’s COVID-19 Solidarity Response Fund.
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
10print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddStakeholder Engagement
We periodically evaluate  
our sustainability priorities  
outlined in this report to  
ensure alignment with our  
long-term strategy. As part 
of this process, we regularly 
engage with key stakeholders 
to ensure we continue to focus 
on the most important issues.Sustainability Agenda
Our sustainability agenda is led and managed by our  
Chief Executive Officer alongside a senior management 
team that includes our Chief People Officer, Chief 
Financial Officer, General Counsel, Senior Vice President  
of Industrial and Consumer, and newly appointed  
Director of Social Purpose. In addition, our Board of 
Directors is fully engaged and receives updates from 
senior management about our progress against our 
sustainability initiatives.  
Reporting and Disclosures
We  utilize third-party disclosure initiatives to inform 
our sustainability activities and reporting. Our 2019 
Sustainability Report is prepared in accordance with  
the Global Reporting Initiative: Core Option and we  
also report separately to the CDP Climate Change and 
Water Security projects. Our sustainability activities  
and reporting are appropriately aligned with the  
UN Sustainable Development Goals. Going forward,  
we plan to review other evolving ESG disclosure 
frameworks (e.g., TCFD and SASB) to better inform  
our sustainability reports. Our Shareholders 
We actively engage with our shareholders around topics 
of interest, including sustainability reporting and human 
capital management.
Our Workforce  
Through employee-led Green Teams, our employees  
focus on improving sustainability at local offices and 
provide feedback through our quarterly ADI Pulse 
engagement survey.
Our Suppliers  
ADI is a proud member of the Responsible Business Alliance 
and ensures our suppliers adhere to its code of conduct.
Our Communities  
ADI continues to fund and support STEM education and 
local environmental initiatives across the globe.
HOW WE MANAGE SUSTAINABILITYOUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
11print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddINNOV ATING FOR THE ENVIRONMENT
We are dedicated to using our expertise to make an enduring impact on people’s lives and the world around us. At their core, the 
technologies and solutions we develop are supporting our environmental sustainability goals by reducing emissions, increasing 
efficiency and enabling greater use of renewable energy sources. 
Going the Distance with Electric Vehicles  
EV battery systems are significant drivers of vehicle 
cost. ADI’s battery management solutions (BMS)  
reduce overall costs while improving battery 
performance, range and safety. ADI’s BMS accurately 
monitors the battery’s current and voltage profiles to 
prevent over- and undercharging, while maximizing 
battery life. This technology is supporting increased 
adoption of EVs, which could prevent up to 60 million 
tons of CO 2 from entering the atmosphere—  
the equivalent of 70 million acres of forest.Maximizing Renewable Energy
Maximizing power from wind and solar sources is 
critical to driving the renewable energy revolution. 
Our Energy Storage Systems provide a more reliable 
supply of renewable energy sources, greatly enhancing 
the viability of smart grids. Our power and isolation 
technologies convert electricity from solar panels for 
electrical power, and our data acquisition and signal 
processing technologies ensure wind turbines operate 
safely and effectively. These technology improvements 
make power alternatives more viable as primary energy 
sources in the future.Greener Data Centers
Data centers are considered to be among the most 
energy-intensive buildings and are estimated to account 
for 2% of all electricity used in the U.S. alone.* The 
ability to reduce data centers’ energy consumption is 
necessary to help reduce their environmental impact. 
ADI’s intelligent sensing systems can activate an entire 
temperature, pressure and humidity sensing network 
without disruption to data center operations, greatly 
optimizing energy efficiency while maintaining reliability.
 
*Source: U.S. Department of Energy  OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
12print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddMaking Factory Floors Safer
Modern factories have robots and humans working 
alongside each other. In the past, this proximity would 
have posed potential dangers. ADI’s advanced robotics 
technologies, such as drive and inverter control, LIDAR-
based position sensing and 3D Time of Flight all improve 
sensing capabilities, reduce collision and mitigate other 
safety risks. And, variable speed motors deliver both motor- and process-efficiency 
improvements to significantly reduce energy usage across the factory floor. 
Connecting the World with 5G
Analog Devices has been planning, designing and building core technologies that 
make today’s 5G network infrastructure possible. ADI’s expertise in radio frequency 
and microwave communications enables increasingly high-speed data conversion 
and communication that are critical to the deployment of new 5G networks  
opening the door to the exciting new opportunities 5G brings, including improved 
access to healthcare, fully autonomous vehicles and improved 
robotic connectivity.Tackling Healthcare Challenges 
ADI’s critical measurement and control technologies are used in medical equipment 
essential for diagnostics and treatment including ventilators, respirators, tests and 
imaging systems—which has played an integral role in helping contain the COVID-19 
pandemic and treating patients. And we remain committed to doing everything we 
can to ensure critical medical supplies are getting to the front lines.
We are also leveraging our domain expertise in partnership with biosensor 
companies, research hospitals and the international Open Source Ventilator  
project to deliver breakthrough technology and provide design assistance where  
it is needed.IMPROVING LIVES THROUGH TECHNOLOGY
OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
13print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.indd
PRODUCT LIFECYLE
Our customers rely on our products  
for years, or even decades. We take 
pride in the longevity of our designs,  
and producing the same products 
decade after decade is a cornerstone  
of our business that we monitor as a  
key performance metric. 
We believe the best products are those that are useful  
in the long term, and we purposefully design them to 
avoid obsolescence as long as possible. All of our product 
designs go through our Product Life Cycle program  
to extend their useful life and incorporate a  
design-for-environment concept to minimize needed 
materials for manufacturing and packaging.
14OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
14print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.indd
PROTECTING AND REGENERATING  
THE ENVIRONMENT
15 2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTprint scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.indd
PROTECTING AND REGENERATING  
THE ENVIRONMENT
ADI is committed to protecting the 
environment and ensuring the health 
and safety of employees, customers  
and the public .
We take this commitment seriously. As a company rooted 
in technology and innovation, our products are often 
implemented to further other companies’ or individuals’ 
sustainability efforts. And so we choose to lead by example 
in our activities as well. It’s why we purposefully design 
our operations to minimize our environmental impact 
and conserve resources, which we continually monitor 
to help us improve resource efficiency and enhance our 
sustainability efforts.COMPANY INITIATIVES
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
16print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.indd2025 TARGETS
2030 TARGETSCO2 Emissions (Scope 1+2) Water Use Power Use
Waste GenerationOUR GOALS
At ADI, we’re proud of the progress we’ve made in reducing our 
environmental impact . But we still have more to do, and so as good 
corporate citizens, we have set these ambitious 2025 environmental 
goals for our operations.
50% 
CO2 Reduction from 2015
50% 
  Recycling Rate
0% 
     Waste to Landfill100% 
   Renewable EnergyPROTECTING AND REGENERATING  
THE ENVIRONMENT
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
17print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddGreenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction 
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions are categorized into “scopes” based on their source. ADI monitors Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions and consolidates  
GHG emissions from which it has operational control: wafer fabrication facilities, and assembly and test facilities.  
Emissions from sources owned or controlled by ADI,  
including fossil fuels used on site.
Indirect emissions from electricity, heating and cooling  
generated offsite but purchased by ADI.
Purchased goods and services; fuel and energy related activities 
not included in Scope 1 or 2; waste generated in operations; 
business travel; employee commuting; downstream transportation 
and distribution and end-of-life treatment of sold products.SCOPE 
1
SCOPE 
2
SCOPE 
3GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS REDUCTION
GHG Emissions, Tons  
Improvements in our abatement system as well as shifting 
to renewable energy sources have driven the decrease in our 
Scope 1 + 2 by 37% from 2015 GHG Emissions, Tons
Shift to
Renewable
Energy
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019219,057 217,769
146,567 145,036GHG Emissions,
Tons,
137,321
Source and Associations
SCOPE 1: Stationary combustion and process emissions: 
Perflourocarbons (PFCs), SF6, NF3  
(from wafer fabrication processes)  
SCOPE 2: Purchased electricity  
SCOPE 3: Business travelSince 2013, our Scope 1 and 2 emissions and our Scope 3 
emissions from business travel have been verified by a  
third party. We also report our emissions to the CDP, formerly  
Carbon Disclosure Project.Emissions are measured and estimated using the Greenhouse 
Gas Protocol and GWP from the IPCC Fifth Assessment report. 
Emission factors used from US-EPA Climate Leadership 
Emissions Factors for Greenhouse Gas Inventories and 
market-based factors where available; otherwise, location-
based emission factors were used.We exceeded the previous 2.5% intensity based Scope 1  
reduction goal and we are moving to a more ambitious  
absolute reduction goal of 50% Scope 1 + 2 emissions by  
2025 from our 2015 baseline.PROTECTING AND REGENERATING  
THE ENVIRONMENT
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
18print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddScope 1 & 2 Emissions
ADI has achieved a 37% reduction in Scope 1 + 2 GHG emissions since 2015  
due to renewable energy sourcing and more efficient abatement systems.
ENVIRONMENTAL SPOTLIGHT: 
Thanks to Renewable Energy
68% 
Reduction in site  
Scope 2 GHG emissionsSCOPE 1 & 2
The ADI Philippines site’s sources of greenhouse gas emissions include fuel, process gases and 
purchased electricity. In 2017, the site shifted to a renewable energy supplier source, driving down 
the sites’ Scope 2 emission by 68%. 
The site also installed solar photovoltaic panels that will supply 25% of power needed for Building 4 
and will provide cost savings after 10 years. PROTECTING AND REGENERATING  
THE ENVIRONMENT
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
19print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddScope 3  
We follow the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting 
Standard in accounting for our emissions. Currently, ADI is only able to account 
emissions from Business Travel under Scope 3.  ADI’s Scope 3 emissions saw  
an upward trend since 2015, resulting from unique travel needs due to corporate 
acquisitions and integration activities. However, ADI has implemented programs  
to educate employees about GHG emissions associated with travel and commuting, 
and we encourage employee carpooling or use other alternatives whenever possible. 
For example, our Philippines site provides free commuting shuttle buses, and 
ADI’s Wilmington, MA campus facilitates employee carpooling by providing prime 
parking spots as incentives. ADI is also working to increase teleconference and 
videoconference usage when possible to reduce emissions from business travel.
Scope 3 Emissions (Business Travel)
2015 2016 2017 2018 20196,9897,939
4,5787,0319,616SCOPE 3
Scope 3 Emissions (Business Travel) (Metric Tons CO 2)
ENVIRONMENTAL SPOTLIGHT: 
A Greener Commute
ADI Wilmington supports electric vehicle (EV) drivers with onsite charging 
stations. Availability started at six spaces in 2018, but is projected to  
grow to 21 spaces by summer 2020 as the campus expands to become the 
Analog Devices Global Headquarters.
To help build interest in electric vehicles among employees, the 
Wilmington Environmental Health and Safety department brought teams 
together in two events to learn about growing demand for electric vehicle 
variety, quality and how to make the switch from conventional cars. 
The Green Energy Consumers Alliance shared information on annual fuel 
savings, addressed “range anxiety” about battery capacity and provided 
useful information about rebates and incentives for purchasing an electric 
vehicle through their Drive Green Program. There was also a panel of four 
electric vehicle-owning ADI employees who answered questions from  
the audience like how EV S cars handle winter weather and why they made  
the switch.PROTECTING AND REGENERATING  
THE ENVIRONMENT
20 2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTprint scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.indd
ENVIRONMENTAL SPOTLIGHT: 
EVs at HQAs battery improvements continue, EVs are becoming more and more feasible for daily driving 
needs. And ADI is constantly promoting their use among employees.
In November 2018, ADI Wilmington—along with six other companies—pledged to participate in the 
inaugural year of the MassEVolves program, which is a public/private partnership initiated by the 
Massachusetts Executive Office of Energy and Environmental Affairs. The goal is to replace  
300,000 fossil-fuel vehicles with electric alternatives by 2025. ADI is unique among the participants 
in that our products directly improve EV efficiency and lower their costs, therefore making this 
option more economical and environmentally friendly.EMBRACING ELECTRIC ALTERNATIVESPROTECTING AND REGENERATING  
THE ENVIRONMENT
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
21print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddENERGY EFFICIENCY
Green design, better efficiency 
and conservation initiatives 
have helped us maintain 
essentially the same electricity 
usage (in million kWh) year over 
year, even as we continue to 
grow. In late 2016, we began 
rapidly increasing our use of 
renewable energy, and by 2019, 
renewable sources supplied  
52% of our energy needs.
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019361 360 365 364 368
7156190
152
Electricity Used (Million kWh) Electricity (Renewable Source) (Million kWh)Electricity Used (Million kWh)We exceeded the previous 2.5% intensity based electricity use reduction goal and we are 
moving  to a more ambitious goal of using 100% Renewable Energy in all our manufacturing 
sites by 2025.PROTECTING AND REGENERATING  
THE ENVIRONMENT
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
22print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.indd
Responsible Usage  
Water is an essential part of ADI’s operations, and our water comes from public 
sources. We treat a significant portion of that water to produce the high purity 
deionized (DI) water necessary for our manufacturing operations. We carefully 
monitor our water usage (in millions of gallons) at each of our operating facilities.  
We have exceeded our previous 2.5% normalized reduction goal on water and  
are now setting a new goal of doubling our water recycling/reuse rate by 2025  
from our 2015 baseline. 
Water conservation initiatives at our manufacturing sites have significantly 
contributed to lowering our overall water usage despite the company’s 74% growth: 
Our 2019 water usage (in million gallons) decreased by 6% from 2015, while water 
recycling rates increased to 25%  from 15% in 2015.
Water Used
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
632633633 Total Water Used,
596646
15%19%25%% Recycled Water,
25%28%W ATER CONSERV ATION
Water UsedENVIRONMENTAL SPOTLIGHT: 
Using Our Water Smarter
100% 
replacement of raw water use  
by using reclaimed water30% 
average reduction in B1’s  
raw water consumption
108,000 m³ /year  
measured reduction in  
water conservation $143,000 
annual cost avoidanceOn the ADI Philippines campus, just one building (B1) consumes 71% of the  
site’s water supply. Water is mainly used for Cooling Towers, Deionized Water (DI) 
production and domestic purposes. Knowing how much this building stands out 
as a high-usage case, we put our minds to devising an opportunity to reduce our 
resource impact—and decided to start by recycling B1’s used DI water for Cooling 
Tower use.
A Cooling Tower is a heat exchanger that uses air to help cool water, which is  
then used to cool the refrigerant of HVAC chillers. But if water from the heat 
exchange is exposed to open air, there’s a chance for contamination, cooling 
inefficiencies, scaling, algae growth and the like. So the water regularly needs  
to be flushed and simultaneously replaced with fresh water.
Instead of continuing to pull water from a public source, we installed a filtration 
system to use DI water as an alternative source for our Cooling Tower’s flushing 
system. This meant that there was no net new water needed to refresh the 
Cooling Tower, saving  9,000 cubic meters per month.
Project results:PROTECTING AND REGENERATING  
THE ENVIRONMENT
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
23print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddReducing Landfill Waste  
At ADI, we constantly look for better ways to reduce the amount of waste we 
generate, and more so the amount of waste we send to the landfill. However,  
the recent growth of our production resulted in an increase in waste generation.  
As a result, we did not meet our previous goal of 2.5% normalized reduction. We 
remain committed to going beyond our current performance. Hence, we are now 
moving to a goal of 0% waste to landfill.
Solid waste generated (in tons) increases an average of 5% annually. In 2019, 60% of our  
solid waste was recycled. 
Solid WasteW ASTE GENERATION
Solid Waste
1,7391,7892,244 Solid Waste 
Generated, Tons,
2,0722,03155%56%60%% Recycled 
Solid Waste,
60%64%
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Hazardous Waste
1,051 1,0661,150 Hazardous Waste 
Generated, Tons,
1,204
1,19037%41%39%
Waste Recycled,
34%40%
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
ENVIRONMENTAL SPOTLIGHT: 
Leading by Example
24““ADI Wilmington celebrated a huge milestone in 2018 when it received the 
Sustainability Award from the Associated Industries of Massachusetts (AIM), 
which recognizes companies for excellence in environmental stewardship, 
promotion of social well-being and contributions to economic prosperity.  
The award specifically acknowledged ADI’s efforts to reduce its environmental 
footprint at its Wilmington, MA facility, which is the site of the future global HQ.
Expounding on the ADI strategy, Vince Roche, President and CEO, said,
At ADI, we’re building solutions for a better 
tomorrow, and that goes beyond what we 
build to how we build them. We’ve made a 
concerted effort to reduce waste and minimize 
the environmental impact in our operations 
to create a safer, healthier future for our 
employees, customers and neighbors. We’re 
constantly working to achieve our ambitious 
sustainability goals and are honored to be 
recognized by AIM for our efforts.PROTECTING AND REGENERATING  
THE ENVIRONMENT
Hazardous waste generation (in tons) increases by 4% annually but more than a third is  
sent to recycling facilities.
Hazardous Waste
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
24print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddStormwater Pollution Prevention Plan 
Locations of materials and industrial activities that 
are potentially exposed to rainwater and snowmelt are 
included in our stormwater prevention plan to promote 
application and improvement of appropriate pollution 
prevention and best management practices. We have 
built enclosures to protect transportation-associated 
loading and unloading activities, waste roll-off 
containers and solid waste/recycling compactors.  
Our inspection program includes visual monitoring  
and sampling to promote effectiveness of the plan.Hazardous Materials Contingency Plan 
This plan is designed to prevent and minimize hazards  
to public health; safety; or welfare of the environment  
by fires, explosions, spills; or any other unplanned 
release of hazardous wastes, hazardous waste 
constituents, or hazardous materials to the air, soil, 
surface water, or groundwater. This plan is incorporated 
in the emergency preparedness and response 
requirements in the ADI ISO 14001/OHSAS 18001 
environmental, health, and safety management system.Oil Spill Prevention Control and Countermeasures 
(SPCC) Plan 
This plan features prevention and control technology  
to reduce the likelihood of a discharge of oil from a site  
or facility.POLLUTION PREVENTION
Environmental Management  
A key component of ADI’s 
approach to environmental 
management is pollution 
prevention and we have 
incorporated relevant 
practices and plans into our 
manufacturing operations.
PROTECTING AND REGENERATING  
THE ENVIRONMENT
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
25print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.indd
Analog Devices responds to the  
CDP Climate Change Programme module 
annually to disclose how we’re managing the 
potential impacts, risks and opportunities 
brought about by climate change. 
We also use this platform to disclose our Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions, our emissions reduction 
initiatives and performance against our GHG goals. Our business strategy is largely influenced by climate-
related regulations, customer requirements, product demand landscape and climate-related natural 
disasters. We have set up a Business Continuity Plan (BCP) to ensure sustained supply of products despite 
the challenges of the changing climate. More information is available in our 2019 public CDP response and  
can be accessed through the  CDP.net portal . CDP-CARBONPROTECTING AND REGENERATING  
THE ENVIRONMENT
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
26print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddWater is essential to the operation of ADI facilities, and we are continuously exploring and implementing new recycling and conservation activities. These efforts are 
published in our Corporate Responsibility webpage . In addition, we also respond to the CDP Water Programme module where we disclose the potential impacts, risks and 
opportunities associated with water-related issues and concerns. We continue to work to maintain operations that comply with existing legal requirements and strive to 
stay abreast of changes that affect those requirements or our operations. We monitor the occurrence of extreme weather events and natural disasters and evaluate their 
potential impact to our operations. We have instituted business continuity plans and alternative sourcing arrangements to reduce impacts to the Company should these 
events occur. 
CDP-W ATERPROTECTING AND REGENERATING  
THE ENVIRONMENT
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
27print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddCommitment to Management Systems and Structure  
ADI’s manufacturing sites are certified to internationally-recognized standards*  
ensuring ADI’s Environmental Management System (EMS) and Occupational  
Health & Safety (OH&S) are functioning to meet internal and external compliance 
obligations and reduce risk.
The EMS Director, who reports to the Senior Vice President of Global  
Operations and Technology, is responsible for compliance with applicable EMS  
legal requirements. EMS Management meets regularly with ADI’s in-house counsel 
and with external counsel, advisors and financial personnel to discuss potential 
environmental risks (including those related to climate change) and possible  
impacts to ADI.
 
*Manufacturing certification standards ISO 14001:2015 and 45001:2018 Environmental Compliance at ADI and Beyond
ADI is committed to the exemplary environmental performance of our products 
and operations. Each of our operating facilities maintains a regulatory register and 
has programs to monitor and evaluate our EMS compliance status. We undergo 
regular internal and independent third-party audits of our regulatory compliance 
management system, and our facilities are inspected by government agencies to 
ensure compliance with regulatory requirements. Employees receive EMS training 
and participate in prevention and risk control activities associated with their work 
and formalized within the EMS management system. ADI expects its suppliers to 
adhere to the same environmental compliance standards ADI has set for itself.
SYSTEMS AND COMPLIANCEPROTECTING AND REGENERATING  
THE ENVIRONMENT
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
28print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddSmarter building design helps us  
reduce electricity consumption 
and emissions associated with our 
operations, which ultimately reduces 
our impact on the environment 
and climate. Since 2013, we have 
certified three new buildings to the 
LEED (Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design) Standard, and 
we continue to design, construct, 
operate and maintain our buildings 
in accordance with LEED and other 
green standards in sustainable site 
development, water efficiency, energy 
efficiency, materials selection and 
indoor environmental quality.ADI Philippines Campus LEED Features  
Cavite, Philippines Office
LEED-Gold certified
• Reflective roof surfaces and exterior insulation 
conserve energy for cooling
• Stormwater management system prevents runoff 
and reduces environmental impact
• Efficient cooling system with underfloor air 
distribution technology
• 100% LED fixtures for internal lighting
• Rainwater harvesting and water recycling for 
landscaping and restroomsADI Ireland Campus LEED Features  
European Research and Development Center in  
Limerick, Ireland campus  
LEED-Platinum certified
• Central glass atrium reduces lighting needs  
and increases employees’ connection with  
the environment
• Smart and high-efficiency lighting saves  
100,000 kWh annually over typical systems
• Solar panels generate ~9,400 kWh annually
• Reflective roofing and efficient air conditioning 
further reduce greenhouse gas emissions
OFFICE EFFICIENCY 
Running on Renewables  
We now power core computing needs in our datacenters with enough  
renewable energy to offset the power-related emissions of 50 U.S. homes. 50
U.S. Homes worth  
of power-related  
emissions offsetPROTECTING AND REGENERATING  
THE ENVIRONMENT
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
29print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddSourcing Responsibly  
Analog Devices is committed to sound ethical 
practices and full compliance with all applicable 
laws and regulations concerning sourcing of conflict 
minerals. We are a member of the Responsible 
Minerals Initiative (RMI) which was founded by the 
Responsible Business Alliance to facilitate responsible 
sourcing of conflict minerals in the electronics supply 
chain. ADI adopted the framework of the Organisation 
for Economic Co-operation and Development Due 
Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains 
of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk 
Areas to facilitate responsible sourcing and fulfill the 
reporting obligations related to conflict minerals.
Our Conflict Minerals policy is available on our website, and is a key component of our management system:
It reflects ADI’s commitment to  
ethical practices and compliance  
with applicable laws and regulations.It includes ADI’s actions on  
collaborating with other concerned 
electronics companies, under the RMI,  
in developing methods to track the  
origin of tantalum, tungsten, tin  
and gold (3TG) used in the manufacture  
of electronic products.It reflects ADI’s support of the Responsible 
Minerals Assurance Process (RMAP) 
in assessing activities, processes and 
systems used by the Smelter or Refiner 
facility to conduct upstream supply chain 
due diligence of minerals for conflict-
affected and high-risk.It is communicated to ADI’s supply chain 
with the expectation of compliance with 
this conflict minerals policy, and for all 
relevant suppliers to provide sourcing 
information using the RMI Conflict 
Minerals Reporting Template as standard.CONFLICT MINERALSRESPONSIBLE SOURCING
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
30print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.indd
EMPOWERING PEOPLE
31 2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTprint scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddIt’s the talent behind the tech that matters. We invest in you 
so we succeed together at creating impactful technologies 
that better the world, ahead of what’s possible.
EMPOWERING PEOPLE
LIFELONG LEARNING CULTURE
Analog Devices was founded in 1965 on 
the principles of innovation, excellence, 
collaboration and lifelong learning.  
We know that amazing talent is how we 
will succeed as a company. That’s why 
we’re committed to hiring great people, 
investing in their potential and helping 
them learn at every stage of their career.
“ “
MARNIE SEIF
CHIEF PEOPLE  
OFFICER
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
32print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddMESSAGE FROM OUR CHIEF PEOPLE OFFICER
At our core, we are problem-solvers. 
ADI employees are united in a shared 
ambition to create solutions for the 
world’s—and our customers’—most 
complex problems. 
This has become even more evident 
during the COVID-19 pandemic; I am 
struck by the unwavering commitment 
and dedication from our employees  
who want to help. 
Similar to companies across many 
different sectors, ADI’s operations have 
been affected by disruptions and new 
operating requirements. In an attempt to 
maintain continuity, our colleagues have 
focused on leveraging new technologies 
that enable productivity while working 
remotely, adopting new work protocols 
for essential roles and creating new ways 
to meet their ever-changing situations.
Combined, these efforts have allowed  
us to maintain operations and to 
continue delivering solutions and 
technologies that benefit our customers, 
our communities and people across  
the world.I am immensely proud of the 
contributions made and ingenuity  
I have seen from everyone here at ADI. 
Our Approach to 
Empowerment  
and Inclusion 
As we continue to evolve our business 
offerings and innovate our designs, we 
are also placing our environmental and 
social responsibilities at the center of 
our operations. The empowerment of  
our people is a key focus area.
Our empowerment strategy is led by our 
new Social Purpose Governance Council, 
made up of members from across our 
business units who provide different 
perspectives across age, gender and  
sexual orientation.
Core to our empowerment strategy 
is embracing diversity and building 
a culture of inclusion across the 
organization. We achieve this by 
expanding the diversity of our workforce, 
creating growth and development 
opportunities for our employees, 
embracing different perspectives and 
fostering an inclusive work environment 
for all.I would like to thank our leaders for 
continuing to drive our sustainable 
business efforts forward, as well as 
our employees for helping foster an 
environment of inclusiveness in the 
workplace and being actively involved  
in the community beyond our offices. 
I am confident in our ability to keep 
pushing the boundaries of innovation  
to achieve our sustainability goals while 
also embracing new ways to support 
the people here who make these 
breakthroughs possible.Our strategy is anchored around  
four key initiatives:
2019 Highlights
MARNIE SEIF  
CHIEF PEOPLE OFFICERHeld unconscious bias training for  
over 150 of our global leaders  Bro adening access  
to digital economies
Furthering education
Prioritizing diversity  
and inclusion (D&I)
Expanding training and  
professional development
33Over 50% of women in our accelerated 
development program have moved  
into higher profile career roles
EMPOWERING PEOPLE
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
33print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddInnovate with Impact
Innovation thrives in open environments and with teams built 
from different backgrounds and experiences. We know 
this to be true now, but we also knew it in 1974, when an 
ADI design director wrote a widely circulated memo, 
titled “Philosophy of Design Review,” which championed 
diversity of thought and opinion as critical components 
of an effective design process.  
To enable a truly inclusive recruitment approach that drives results we have a  
Master Class for Recruiters training program for our talent acquisition team to  
help drive the diversity we know is needed to support a culture where innovation  
can thrive.Create the Future
Developing talent throughout the organization is essential for the 
future of ADI. Our flagship Global Early Employee Challenge 
(GEEC) is an example of how we engage employees across 
functions and with different seniority levels to develop 
business skills. The GEEC program is our business 
competition for employees with five or fewer years of career 
experience. Through the process, teams are assigned manager 
mentors, engage with different functional areas, are offered 
visibility with executives and receive recognition across the organization.Diversity & Inclusion Mission
ADI is building a culture of inclusion — that values and leverages the 
uniqueness and broad perspectives of each employee  — to develop a 
talent base that makes us a leading innovation company in the world.
D&I at ADI
It’s important to bring diverse perspectives to every technology problem we try to solve, because more is achieved when we harness employee talent and bring together  
people of diverse backgrounds. This commitment is the reason why diversity and inclusion is an important part of our company values.DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
EMPOWERING PEOPLE
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
34print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddReach Our Full Potential
Members of an organization who are underrepresented 
need to feel free to contribute their unique backgrounds 
and perspectives. Actively seeking out and engaging 
with those diverse perspectives is needed to achieve 
our full potential. We have a variety of Employee 
Networks which are employee led, and that reach 
across areas such as gender, age, sexual orientation 
and veteran status. In fact, 17% of our total employee 
population is a part of at least one employee-led 
network. These networks play a critical role in helping 
give employees a sense of inclusion. Execute with Excellence
An environment in which employees excel requires 
hearing all voices. That is why we implemented a  
multi-year program around inclusion designed to  
impact every employee. The 
program started with training 
on unconscious bias for 
hundreds of ADI leaders 
including our executive 
team.  
Our leaders are now 
supported with conversation 
guides to have discussions on 
diversity and inclusion with their teams to ensure 
conversations continue after training.
Move with Agility
We strive to foster an agile culture where adaptability 
and transparency leads to expanding employee skills 
and helping employees capitalize on new opportunities. 
Our approach is to help employees proactively find 
new career opportunities within the company through 
development discussions, training and mentoring.Share Our Success
We encourage our people to contribute and support 
their passions inside and outside work. To foster this,  
we have developed initiatives designed to give 
employees avenues to share their experiences, gain 
knowledge and expand their networks. One example 
is our Pay It Forward program that works with high-
performing female employees to support our diversity 
initiatives, including mentoring interns and help  
with outreach. 
 
To support career development for women, we recently 
launched the new Elevate program. Elevate focuses on 
developing women of ADI, regardless of career level, 
into leadership positions.
WOMEN’S  
LEADERSHIP 
NETWORK
LGBTQ 
PROFESSIONAL
NETWORKVETERAN’S
NETWORK
YOUNG 
PROFESSIONALS
NETWORKGREEN TEAM
NETWORK
EMPOWERING PEOPLE
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
35print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.indd2019 GLOBAL WORKFORCE DATA SNAPSHOT
Employees by Geography
REGION # EMPLOYEES %
AM 5,357 33%
APAC 8,853 55%
EMEA 1,872 12%
Grand Total 16,082 100%POPULATION BY GEOGRAPHY
Profile by Gender
POPULATION BY GENDER AS % OF OVERALL ADI
GENDER # EMPLOYEES %
Female 6,748 42%
Male 9,334 58%
Grand Total 16,082 100%Hiring by Gender
OVERALL ADI
GENDER # HIRES % HIRES
Female 504 34.9%
Male 942 65.1%
Grand Total 1,446 100%ADI does not rely on EE0-1 data for our annual report because ADI is a global company and the EE0-1 report only covers our US employees. 
In addition, the band of EE0-1 categories are fixed and very broad in nature, and not reflective of ADI’s complex job structure. 
Leadership by Gender
SENIOR LEADERSHIP MANAGER
11%89%23%77%Ethical Employment
4% 
2019 Employee Voluntary 
Turnover RateEMPOWERING PEOPLE
Female Female Male Male
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
36print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddTECHNICAL ROLE BY GENDER
 TECHNICAL ROLE BY RACEEMPOWERING PEOPLE
2019 GLOBAL WORKFORCE DATA SNAPSHOT
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
37print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddEMPLOYEE COMPENSATION 
Our Compensation Philosophy
We strive to attract and retain the most talented 
employees in the industry across the globe by offering 
competitive compensation and benefits that support 
their health, financial and emotional well-being. We are 
also committed to providing fair wages to all workers 
regardless of gender or race.
Our compensation philosophy is based on rewarding 
each employee’s individual contributions. We use  
a combination of fixed and variable pay including  
base salary, bonuses, performance awards and  
stock incentives.
The compensation we provide always meets or exceeds 
local statutes, and we annually assess our pay ranges 
to ensure we remain competitive. Our pay ranges apply 
to new hires and existing staff, and we offer training 
to managers to ensure fairness in all compensation 
decisions, which are also reviewed by a higher-level 
manager and HR.Pay Equity
At Analog Devices, we have long been committed to 
equal pay for equal work regardless of gender, race or 
ethnicity. In support of this, we have designed checks 
and balances into our compensation system, including 
an in-depth annual analysis, to help ensure fairness. 
Our goal is to attain 100% pay equity for people with 
similar roles, skills and experience. We conduct equal 
pay assessments at least annually, and our 2020 
assessment and validation process showed that we 
are close to attaining our pay equity goal in the U.S. 
We have discontinued asking candidates their salary 
history in the U.S. to support this.
Our work in pay equity is never done, and we will 
continue to assess compensation globally to close pay 
gaps and strive to achieve pay equity worldwide, similar 
to our U.S. achievements.EMPOWERING PEOPLE
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
38print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddEMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Benefits at ADI
We owe our success to our  
many employees. As such,  
we work to take care of them  
and ensure their needs  
and goals are met beyond  
just compensation.
Our benefits vary by country and are designed to 
meet or exceed local laws and to be competitive in the 
marketplace. ADI is proud to provide benefits to the 
majority of our employees around the world. 
Examples of U.S. benefits include a 401(k) plan with 
employer contributions; health benefits; life, business 
travel and disability insurance; additional voluntary 
insurance; paid time off and parental leave; education 
assistance; paid counseling assistance; backup child 
and adult care; adoption support and family  
college planning.
In 2020, U.S. benefits cover eligible employees working 20+ hours per week except for 
disability, which requires 30 hours per week. Interns, co-ops and employees working 
fewer than 20 hours are ineligible for most benefits.   Work-Life Balance
A healthy work-life balance is essential for a fulfilled 
and productive workforce, and we strive to provide our 
employees with everything they need to establish the 
balance they want. Both managers and employees are 
empowered to make these arrangements as needed by 
their roles and local laws.Tuition Assistance
We’re proud to offer tuition assistance and help 
employees further their education. Most employees  
can get tuition help for a variety of programs and 
certificates at accredited institutions to improve 
themselves and build a better future.
EMPOWERING PEOPLE
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
39print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddTALENT DEVELOPMENT
ADI encourages all employees to never stop learning through the 70-20-10 philosophy. By employees 
growing through career experiences (70%), learning from others (20%) and education (10%), they can 
continue to further their own growth and development.
Engineering & Science 
Helps employees leverage in-house 
experts with topics including artificial 
intelligence, data science and 
machine learning.ADI Technical University
Allows employees to share knowledge 
with other employees. Topics 
include Agile Methods for product 
development and Software 101 for 
hardware engineers.Management Courses
Training for new and  
experienced managers.   
Topics include management 
essentials, situational leadership  
and project management skills.Learning & Networking
Analog Devices General Technical Conferences for employees is dedicated to showcasing engineering talent and 
innovation. The annual events consist of technical presentations, interactive workshops, hands-on demonstrations 
and networking events. Multiple versions of the conference are scheduled globally in different locations, including in 
the U.S., Ireland, India and China. 
Education & Training
ADI offers a variety of courses that can benefit its employees at every stage of their career.
EMPOWERING PEOPLE
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
40print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddTalent Engagement Programs
GEEC
Our Global Early Employee Challenge (GEEC) is  
ADI’s organization-wide business competition 
for employees with five or fewer years of career 
experience. Participants form teams that compete  
in a four-month challenge while focused on a  
specific area (such as machine health or societal  
need) that concludes with team presentations to  
senior leadership.ADI Hackathon
The ADI Hackathon, hosted by ADI Ireland, encourages 
our best and brightest thinkers to apply ADI technology 
in a novel way that benefits society. In 2020,  
60+ technologists contributed ideas that led to the 
winning team designing a headset that could help 
opticians more easily monitor a patient’s eye health  
for the theme of “Visual Impairment.”Talent Feedback
ADI Pulse is our employee engagement survey that  
allows us to get employee viewpoints on what we 
are doing well and where we can improve across the 
company. The survey is administered annually with 
quarterly “Mini Pulses” surveys to get more more 
frequent feedback. Survey topics include matters on 
leadership, decision making and more. The survey is 
administered by a third party to ensure anonymity and 
results are shared with employees.
Talent Development
ADI works to ensure our employees are continuously 
challenged and always developing their careers. We 
conduct annual assessments that:
• Review each division’s goals to identify talent needs
• Assess how each division is positioned from a 
talent perspective
• Review the current state of talent vitality for  
each division
• Review key talent segments and prioritize actions  
to identify and develop
• Identify and agree on critical actions, next steps  
and outcomes
EMPOWERING PEOPLE
TALENT DEVELOPMENT
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
41print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddTALENT ACQUISITION
We’re focused on finding the right people to ensure ADI can be 
successful in the future. We do so by finding new talent with 
diverse backgrounds, and by promoting internal talent to help 
grow their careers. We consider broad ranges of candidates for 
experienced hires, new college graduates, interns and/or co-ops, 
which each bring a unique perspective that adds to our culture 
and capabilities.
42Recruiting Diverse Perspectives
ADI is committed to creating a strong pipeline of unique perspectives, skill sets and backgrounds to 
fuel our innovation. In partnership with global diversity associations, we seek to identify the broadest 
pipeline of talent and connect them with meaningful careers at ADI. 
Internship & Co-Op Programs
Our internship and co-op programs are proven methods of bringing new talent to ADI. Participants 
gain experience via hands-on projects tied to ADI’s business initiatives, as well as networking and 
mentorship opportunities.
42EMPOWERING PEOPLE
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
42print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddTREATING EMPLOYEES FAIRLY
As a global manufacturer, ADI is committed to treating every single one of our employees fairly 
and with dignity. We always comply with local laws, and often go above and beyond them to lead by 
example in our communities with fair compensation and safe working conditions.
Forced Labor
Analog Devices does not use forced or involuntary labor. 
All work must be voluntary, and workers are always 
free to leave upon reasonable notice. Our workers 
are not required to hand over government-issued 
identification, passports or work permits to our facility 
representatives as a condition of employment.
ADI is a member of RBA and subscribes to the RBA 
Code of Conduct. We also expect our key suppliers 
to recognize the RBA Code as it contains standards 
intended to eradicate slavery and human trafficking in 
the electronics supply chain. These standards promote 
best practices in a number of areas affecting human 
rights. Modern Slavery Act StatementWe verify our conformance to the RBA Code by 
engaging third party audit entities accredited by the 
RBA to conduct Validated Audit Programs (VAP) at 
our manufacturing facilities. Our employees receive 
Training on the RBA Code, as well as training and 
guidance on ADI’s values and ethics, specifically as it 
relates to integrity and respect in the workplace.
Child Labor Avoidance
ADI does not use child labor at any stage of 
manufacturing. We use the RBA Code of Conduct 
definition of “child”: any person under the age of 15  
(or 14 where the law of the country permits), or under 
the age for completing compulsory education or under 
the minimum age for employment in the country, 
whichever is greatest. The use of legitimate workplace 
apprenticeship programs, which comply with all laws  
and regulations, is supported by ADI. Workers cannot 
perform work that is likely to jeopardize their health  
or safety. Freedom of Association
ADI regards open communication and direct 
engagement between workers and management 
to be the most effective ways to resolve workplace 
and compensation issues. ADI respects the rights of 
workers to associate freely and seek to communicate 
openly with management regarding working conditions 
without fear of reprisal, intimidation or harassment. 
Collective Bargaining Agreements
Globally, approximately 1.2% of our employees belong  
to unions.EMPOWERING PEOPLE
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
43print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddWorker Safety
At ADI, we make employee health and safety a priority. 
Our manufacturing sites have EH&S committees 
or work groups which include representatives from 
different functional groups to ensure this commitment. 
ADI workers do not participate in occupational activities 
with high incidence or high risk of specific diseases, 
which has resulted in no known or reported incidents  
in this area. ADI's industrial hygiene surveillance program minimizes 
and prevents exposures in the workplace and reduces 
the risk of specific diseases. We use two industry 
standard metrics to assess injury performance and 
trends worldwide.
All legacy ADI sites have ISO 45001 health and safety 
certification, while sites from our acquisition of  Linear Technology are working towards certification  
to the same standard.
ADI incident rates and lost workday rates are better 
than U.S. semiconductor and manufacturing industries.WORKER SAFETY
INCIDENT RATE PER 100 WORKERS
LOST WORKDAY RATE  PER 100 WORKERS 0.001.002.003.004.005.00
0.380.903.40
Analog Devices (Global)U.S Semiconductor IndustryU.S Manufacturing Industry
0.000.400.801.20
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2019 2018 2017 20160.2
0.13 Analog Devices (Global)0.9 U.S Manufacturing Industry
U.S Semiconductor Industry
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2019 2018 2017 2016INCIDENT RATE PER 100 WORKERS
LOST WORKDAY RATE  PER 100 WORKERS 0.001.002.003.004.005.00
0.380.903.40
Analog Devices (Global)U.S Semiconductor IndustryU.S Manufacturing Industry
0.000.400.801.20
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2019 2018 2017 20160.2
0.13 Analog Devices (Global)0.9 U.S Manufacturing Industry
U.S Semiconductor Industry
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2019 2018 2017 2016EMPOWERING PEOPLE
Workplace Injury/Fatality Incident Rate
Incident rate:  Number of reportable incidents per 100 employees working a full year. Lost workday case rate:  Number of incidents requiring time away from work  
per 100 employees working a full year.
44 2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTOUR IMPACT
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 45print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddIMPACT THROUGH ENGAGEMENT
We’re proud of the impact our employees 
have on their communities through all 
of our volunteer efforts. Collectively, ADI 
employees spend countless hours each year 
on education, outreach and conservation 
efforts to better the world around them. 
The following pages will share just a few  
of the ways our employees engage with  
the world around them.
46
OUR IMPACT
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
46print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddRESPONDING TO COVID-19
Protecting Health and Safety
Teams across our organization made tremendous  
efforts to ensure business continuity and put processes 
in place to ensure the safety of our 16,000 global 
employees. The efforts of our entire workforce enable 
the company to continue operating remotely, as well as 
the frontline workers who have kept our factories open  
to produce essential technologies and equipment.
Prioritizing Critical Customer Needs
In response to the growing need for our technologies in healthcare devices such as 
ventilators, respirators, diagnostic test systems and imaging systems, we worked 
with customers to prioritize shipments of critical equipment. This includes dedicated 
manufacturing lines to increase production, enhancing safety in our manufacturing 
environments and working with local governments worldwide to ensure facilities 
could remain in operation.Supporting Global and Local Efforts
World Health Organization (W.H.O.) COVID-19 Solidarity Response Fund
Analog Devices Foundation, Analog Devices and our employees—through an 
accelerated employee match—donated a combined $4 million to the W.H.O. COVID-19 
Solidarity Response Fund and supported Global Citizen on its televised and streamed 
special “One World: Together At Home.” The special brought the world together 
through music and raised $55 million towards the W.H.O.’s Solidarity Response Fund  
to prevent, detect and respond to the pandemic.
Massachusetts General Hospital Vaccine and Immunotherapy Clinic (VIC)
The Analog Devices Foundation donated $500,000 to fund research for the VIC at 
Massachusetts General Hospital. The donation directly supports work to develop a 
vaccine and novel point-of-care testing technologies for COVID-19, which is critical 
to start opening up the economy and increase safety of healthcare workers and their 
patients. Analog Devices and the VIC are supporting a trial to deploy new diagnostic 
testing to identify those infected with COVID-19 and confirm which individuals  
have developed an immune response and are virus negative.As the coronavirus outbreak has continued its global spread, governments, companies, communities and individuals are facing a health and economic crisis of 
unprecedented nature. Throughout this crisis, ADI and our team of 16,000 employees have been united in our commitment to support global response efforts,  
providing a reminder of what we can achieve when we come together in our mission to solve the world’s toughest challenges—and engineer a better future.
OUR IMPACT
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
47print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.indd
COVID-19 Case Study:  
Fulfilling Critical Needs From the Philippines
In line with our commitment 
to maximizing our impact 
beyond our own capabilities 
and facilities, ADI partnered 
with several organizations to 
further our reach and support 
additional response efforts.Problem:
While the facility was given exemption to stay open by the Philippine 
government due to the critical technology we produce, broader quarantine 
measures and transportation suspensions presented challenges for employees 
needing to travel to and from the facility. 
Solution:
ADI partnered with the Philippine government to find alternative 
accommodation solutions. Together they were able to identify housing  
for nearly 400 employees, across local hotels and within plant facilities. 
In addition, the team provided significant relief efforts to local communities, 
including the donation of protective equipment to hospitals, the donation of 
groceries to the most vulnerable and at-risk people and holding a donation 
drive that raised more than $12,000 towards the acquisition of PPE for local 
healthcare workers and first responders.
This is just one example where our employees, management and leaders joined 
in their commitment to overcome obstacles so they could continue to supply  
the technologies and equipment to customers in need and contribute to the 
global COVID-19 response efforts.RESPONDING TO COVID-19OUR IMPACT
48 2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTprint scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.indd35 Years of STEM Education
Since our founding in 1965, ADI has devoted time, resources and steadfast support 
to promote STEM education. We rely on the next generation of engineers to fuel 
our success in the future, and we’re constantly working to broaden access to STEM 
education across the world.
Many of our employees volunteer their time to mentor schools, teams and clubs in 
engineering to help shape the next generation of STEM pioneers. We’re proud of  
the impact we can have on these students.Having Fun with FIRST
ADI has been a proud sponsor of FIRST Robotics since 2003. We provide funding and 
mentoring to help inspire young people to become science and technology leaders 
and innovators.
Our employees support their competitions, like Robotics, Technology and Lego 
Leagues, by volunteering as team mentors, competition judges and parent 
volunteers. Our sponsored teams have received numerous accolades and awards 
rewarding them with invitations to several national and international opens. 
This is one of the most rewarding and fun ways our employees give back to their 
communities while also supporting the next generation of technology leaders.
IMPACT THROUGH ENGAGEMENTOUR IMPACT
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
49print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.indd
ADI PHILIPPINES  
Academe Linkage
Our Philippines office created the Academe Linkage program more than  
20 years ago to forge long-term, collaborative relationships with local higher 
education institutions. The program promotes STEM education with college 
students in an effort to develop potential engineering talent. 
Activities include factory visits, scholarship programs, sponsorships  
and internships. The program has helped inspire many students to pursue 
engineering degrees and dramatically aided our Philippines recruiting efforts.ADI IRELAND
Inspiring a Generation
Since 2014, our Limerick, Ireland office has hosted a Robotics Showdown 
for 5th grade students. We put their engineering skills to the test by asking 
them to design, build, test and program their own robot for a final  
“Robotics Sumo Showdown.” The event encourages teamwork,  
and creativity, and is an overall  blast for the 30+ schools and 900+ students 
who participate annually.
This competition is a great opportunity 
for these young competitors to see the 
tremendous opportunities that a career 
in STEM could offer. The skills shown by 
the competitors today are exactly the 
ones that will be valued by the workplace 
of the future.““
BRENDAN O’DOWD  
GENERAL MANAGER, INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION
OUR IMPACT
IMPACT THROUGH ENGAGEMENT
50 2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTprint scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.indd
Boosting Biodiversity  
In 2010, ADI Philippines launched a local biodiversity conservation program for the 
14 hectare-campus. Their efforts help foster a community that cares about their 
environment and will lead to a better campus for all. A wide range of results has 
come quickly, including: 
Reforestation
GLOBAL HQ 
Watershed Protectors
The Ipswich River provides drinking water to 14 communities along its path, 
impacting a population of 350,000 residents and businesses, including our 
global headquarters site in Wilmington, MA. Our long-standing partnership 
helps provide much needed funds and volunteers to Ipswich River Watershed 
Association, which brings together citizens, scientists, businesses and 
municipal managers to work together to protect and restore the watershed.
100+  native endangered 
trees planted on campus6,100+  trees given to 
employees to plant at  
their own homes
22+  bird species with protected  
nesting sites on campus2,100+ trees planted in 
local communities through 
volunteer programs
530+  sea turtle hatchlings  
protected and released through  
local partnershipsOUR IMPACT
IMPACT THROUGH ENGAGEMENT
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
51print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.indd
PROMOTING GOOD GOVERNANCE
52 2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTprint scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.indd
We have long believed that good corporate governance is important to ensure Analog Devices is 
managed for the long-term benefit of our shareholders. We review our corporate governance policies 
and practices annually and compare them to those suggested by various authorities in corporate 
governance and the practices of other public companies. As a result, we have adopted policies  
and procedures that we believe are in the best interests of Analog Devices and our shareholders.  
In particular, we have adopted the following policies and procedures:CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
PROMOTING GOOD GOVERNANCE
Corporate Governance Guidelines 
Our Board of Directors has adopted Corporate 
Governance Guidelines for our Company that establish 
a common set of expectations to assist the Board and 
its committees in performing their duties. The Board 
reviews these Guidelines at least annually, and updates 
them as necessary to reflect changing regulatory 
requirements and evolving practices.Declassified Board of Directors
We have a declassified Board of Directors, and our 
bylaws provide that each director will serve for a term 
ending on the date of the annual meeting following 
the one at which such director was elected. All of our 
directors will stand for election for terms expiring at  
the next annual meeting of shareholders.Majority Voting for Election of Directors
Our bylaws provide for a majority voting standard in 
uncontested director elections, so a nominee is elected 
to the Board of Directors if the votes “for” that director 
exceed the votes “against” (with abstentions and broker 
non-votes not counted as for or against the election). If a 
nominee does not receive more “for” votes than “against” 
votes, the director must offer his or her resignation.
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
53print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddMajority of directors  
are independent
Active Board engagement 
in managing talent and 
long-term succession 
planning for executivesAnnual election of 
directors of a  
declassified board
No supermajority  
voting provisionsMajority voting for 
directors in uncontested 
director elections
Annual Board and 
Committee  
self-evaluationsImplemented proxy  
access bylawRegular executive  
sessions of  
independent directorsShare ownership 
guidelines for  
executive officers and 
non-employee directors
Oversite of 
corporate activities 
on environmental 
sustainability and  
social responsibility CORPORATE GOVERNANCE HIGHLIGHTSPROMOTING GOOD GOVERNANCE
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
54print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddAnalog Devices Board of Directors and its 
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee 
are committed to ensuring that the Board is 
comprised of a highly capable group of directors 
who collectively provide a significant breadth of 
experience, knowledge and ability to effectively 
represent the interest of shareholders, drive 
shareholder value and reflect our corporate values 
of integrity, honesty and adherence to high ethical 
standards. The board also believes that having 
directors with a mix of tenure helps transition the 
institutional knowledge of the more experienced 
directors while providing a broad, fresh set of 
perspectives. The Nominating and Corporate 
Governance Committee considers gender, racial, 
ethnic and experiential diversity as part of its  
search criteria, consistent with the requirement  
for relevant and diverse experience, skills and 
industry familiarity.Average Tenure  
The Board of Directors believes that having directors with a mix of tenure on the board 
helps transition the knowledge of the more experienced directors while providing a 
broad, fresh set of perspectives and provides the Board of Directors with a diversity 
of experiences and viewpoints. We have had three new directors join the Board of 
Directors within the last two years. The average tenure of our independent directors 
standing for re-election is approximately 6.5 years.0–4years
5–9 years
9+ years4
3 3
Diversity  
Our Corporate Governance Guidelines provide that gender, racial and ethnic  
diversity, consistent with the requirement for relevant and diverse experience, skills 
and industry familiarity, are important search criteria. To this point, in addition to 
strengthening our board from a skills and experience perspective, the Board’s newest 
three directors have also increased the Board’s overall diversity profile.Gender  
DiversityEthnic  
DiversityWom en20% 20%
Ethnically
Diver seIndependence  
Other than our founder and Chief Executive Officer, all of the members of our Board  
are independent directors.
8/10 Directors are 
IndependentDIRECTOR PROFILEPROMOTING GOOD GOVERNANCE
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
55print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddWhat we  DO
• Our cash incentive bonus awards are based solely  
on our financial performance
• We have a specific policy regarding the grant  
dates of stock options, RSUs and other stock-  
based awards for our directors, executive officers  
and employees
• We have stock ownership guidelines for all officers 
and directors
• We prohibit hedging transactions and “short sales” 
involving ADI securities 
• We prohibit holding ADI securities in margin
• We prohibit pledging ADI securities as collateral  
for a loan
• Annual “say on pay” voteWhat we DO NOT DO
• We do not guarantee salary increases or non-
performance-based bonuses
• We do not modify our performance targets during 
the performance period, even in challenging years
• We do not provide new tax gross-ups for  
executive officers 
• We do not pay dividends on unvested equity awards *
• We do not provide extensive perquisites to  
our executives
*Restricted Stock Awards assumed in connection with the Linear Technology  
acquisition are the only exception to this statement.PAY FOR PERFORMANCE
A significant portion of the total target compensation for our named executive officers, or NEOs, is variable and directly linked to Company performance in the form of 
variable cash incentive bonus payments and equity awards. This approach provides our executives with an opportunity to earn above peer average compensation if ADI 
delivers strong results. Conversely, our NEOs’ total compensation is reduced if our business results are below target.
Pay and Governance Practices   
Our pay and governance practices are designed to align our executives’ interests with our shareholders. For example:PROMOTING GOOD GOVERNANCE
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
56print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.indd
During fiscal 2019, in addition 
to investor relations meetings, 
we contacted stakeholders 
representing more than 55% of 
our shares outstanding, with 
engagement invitations.
In the spirit of continuous improvement, we have reviewed the key takeaways from shareholders meetings, with 
the goal of continuing to evolve our corporate governance practices to best meet the needs of the Company and 
our shareholders. This dialogue has led to enhancements made to our practices and disclosures, including:Board composition and risk oversight
Board evaluation and refreshment
Corporate governance trends
Environmental, social and governance 
considerations, including diversity and inclusion 
and human capital management 
Executive compensation policies and designSHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT BY THE NUMBERS
WHAT WE HEARD WHAT WE DID
Continue to refine our shareholder 
engagement processIncreased communication on topics of interest including sustainability 
and human capital management
Update our Corporate Governance 
DisclosureRevised our disclosure to include director qualification and skills,  
the Board’s self-evaluation process and oversight of risk
Expand CD&A Disclosure Revised to include disclosures relating to incentive performance targets
Enhance D&I DisclosuresBegan disclosing management perspective and workforce data on 
diversity and inclusion topics in CSR reportingThe topics covered during engagement with those 
shareholders who accepted our invitation included:PROMOTING GOOD GOVERNANCE
We intend to continue our shareholder outreach efforts on an on-going basis and look forward to continuing to 
engage with our valued shareholders. 
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
57print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.indd
Our Risk Management Framework defines how we identify, 
manage and govern risk throughout our organization to promote 
the thoughtful achievement of our financial and operational 
goals in a compliant manner. It assigns accountability for risk 
management to every Business Unit, based on the risks they 
encounter as part of their day-to-day operations.
Risk governance is managed by our General Counsel and Chief 
Financial Officer in partnership with the Senior Leadership Team. 
On a quarterly basis, issues of risk management are reviewed 
by ADI’s Audit Committee and Nominating and Governance 
Committees. Our General Counsel reports to our full Board 
of Directors regarding our management of all enterprise and 
operational risks and our Risk Management Framework annually, 
with periodic updates on focus areas such as cybersecurity.RISK MANAGEMENTPROMOTING GOOD GOVERNANCE
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
58print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.indd
Governance and Ethical Sustainability
Ethical behavior has been a core tenet of our Company’s 
values since our earliest days. Our employees, across 
all locations and job functions, have internalized the 
value of ethical behavior, routinely going beyond mere 
compliance with applicable laws and regulations. 
Employees have a mandatory training on our Code of 
Ethics and are then re-certified the following years. 
It is reviewed for necessary changes or amendments 
on an annual basis by the Nominating and Corporate 
Governance Committee of our Board of Directors. Our 
long history of leadership in the area of governance 
and ethics has resulted in a trusted reputation among 
our customers, investors and employees, as well as the 
communities where we operate. Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
We work to comply with all applicable anticorruption 
and antibribery laws in all countries where we do 
business (see Guidelines for Gifts and Business 
Entertainment on page 9 within the ADI Code of 
Business Conduct and Ethics ). We also assess our 
manufacturing sites for corruption and ethics risks 
using the Responsible Business Alliance’s (RBA, 
formerly Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition) self-
assessment tools. We publicly report on breaches to or 
waivers of the Company’s Code of Conduct for officers 
or our controller on a Form 8-K in accordance with  
SEC rules. 
Supplier Code of Conduct
We are members of the RBA and adhere to the RBA 
Code of Conduct for our operations and as our Supplier 
Code of Conduct. Our belief that ethical behavior is a 
core company value and the RBA Code supports our 
commitment to upholding the highest ethical standards 
in how we conduct business.Voicing Concerns
We have several avenues through which employees  
and stakeholders can report potential violations of  
 laws, rules, regulations and Company policies.  
We have an open-door policy with regard to issues that 
may arise under the Code or about potential violations. 
Employees may bring these issues to their supervisors, 
their supervisor’s managers, their human resources 
representative, any member of human resources or  
ADI’s Senior Vice President and General Counsel.  
In addition, we have a toll-free and confidential  
business ethics hotline operated by an independent 
third party through which employees may anonymously 
report any potential violation online or via a hotline. 
Following a report, ADI’s Legal Department oversees an 
investigation appropriate for the situation. Anonymous 
reports and the results of any investigation are 
reported to the Nominating and Corporate Governance 
Committee. For more information regarding reporting 
of violations, please view our  Code of Business Conduct 
and Ethics .COMPLIANCE AND BUSINESS ETHICSPROMOTING GOOD GOVERNANCE
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
59print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddNo Retaliation
We do not discipline, discriminate against  
or retaliate against any employee who reports  
a complaint or concern.
Fair Competition and Pricing
ADI and its employees do not discuss prices or 
customers with our competitors except when  
necessary in connection with legitimate sales or 
purchase transactions. In addition, ADI and its 
personnel do not fix or dictate resale prices to our 
distributors or pressure resale price maintenance by 
reprimanding or threatening distributors who reduce 
their prices. We are fair in our dealings with our 
distributors and do not restrict our distributors’ rights 
to sell our products, nor do we seek to prevent our 
distributors from selling our competitors’ products. We do not discriminate among similar distributors  
when we offer price discounts. ADI had zero legal 
actions related to anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust 
and monopoly practices in the reporting period.
Insider Trading
Our policy regarding the trading of securities is 
applicable to all ADI personnel, as well as our Board of 
Directors. They are required to take a mandatory online 
course covering our insider trading rules. Appropriate 
employees are also reminded quarterly via email of their 
obligations to refrain from trading in Company stock 
during blackout periods.
Anti-Corruption
We work to comply with all applicable anticorruption 
and antibribery laws in all countries where we do 
business. Our Guidelines for Gifts and Business 
Entertainment, which prohibit the giving of anything 
of value to a government official with the purpose of 
influencing his or her decision or gaining an improper 
benefit, apply to all ADI personnel.
See link under Governance Documents for full ADI Anti-Corruption Policy.Export Controls
ADI monitors and strives to comply with the export 
regulations of the United States and of other countries 
where we conduct business. We provide training on 
export laws, including the International Traffic in Arms 
Regulations and the Export Administration Regulations, 
to all appropriate employees. New hires receive export 
awareness training within the first month of hire. 
Export compliance training is delivered every two years 
to all ADI employees and more frequently for certain 
functional teams.
Governance Documents Links:
Download ADI Code of Conduct & Ethics
Download ADI Related Person Transaction Policy
Download ADI Privacy & Security Statement
Download ADI Anti Corruption Policy
PROMOTING GOOD GOVERNANCE
COMPLIANCE AND BUSINESS ETHICS
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
60print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddSupply Chain Management
Our goal is to develop a meaningful and lasting 
relationship with ADI suppliers. Our products require  
a wide variety of components, raw materials,  
external foundry, assembly and test services—much  
of which ADI purchases from third-party suppliers.  
We have multiple sources for many of the components 
and materials that are purchased and incorporated into 
our products. However, a large portion of our external 
wafer purchases and foundry services are from a limited 
number of suppliers—primarily Taiwan Semiconductor 
Manufacturing Company.Purchasing Responsibly
The ADI Purchasing Organization has a procedure for 
purchasing materials from its suppliers. Approximately 
63 of the material suppliers are considered to be 
key suppliers. Where appropriate, raw materials and 
critical indirect materials are either dual sourced or 
have an identified second source. The ADI Purchasing 
Organization, in conjunction with the Subcontractor 
Management Organization, oversees the work of Taiwan 
Semiconductor Manufacturing Company and the test 
and assembly subcontractors in Asia. ADI has developed 
a series of specifications to define the ADI Supplier 
Management Policy for materials and services.
Ethical Suppliers
ADI expects suppliers to adhere to the same business 
ethics and human rights standards ADI has set for 
itself. ADI’s policy is to perform FCPA (Foreign Corrupt 
Practices Act) checks on all new suppliers being added 
to ADI’s supplier master file, and ADI provides new 
suppliers with a copy of the ADI ethics statement  
and requests acknowledgment from the supplier.  
The Agreement on Responsible Business Conduct which includes human rights clauses is implemented 
broadly to all suppliers. All of our key raw materials 
suppliers have signed an Agreement on Responsible 
Business Conduct.
Supplier Audits
ADI suppliers must demonstrate proven quality,  
effective process controls, financial stability, 
competitive pricing, on-time delivery and commitment 
to continual improvement in all aspects of their 
business. Suppliers are audited for conformance with 
ADI requirements and other purchasing conditions. 
This audit schedule is determined based on a risk 
management process. New key raw material suppliers 
are audited prior to their acceptance.
PROMOTING GOOD GOVERNANCE
COMPLIANCE AND BUSINESS ETHICS
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
61print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.indd
APPENDIX
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
62print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddABOUT THIS REPORT
Scope and Boundary
The scope of this report covers the 12-month period ending December 31, 2019. Financial data covers our fiscal year ending November 2, 2019 and is reported in U.S. dollars.  
This report is limited to our directly managed operations and wholly owned subsidiaries. The boundary of reported content includes operational data and management 
performance for activities that have a significant impact, and in which ADI has direct control or significant influence. Financial statements were audited by Ernst & Young LLP.  
Our sustainability report was reviewed by outside consultants and advisors with relevant expertise. Additionally, our greenhouse gas emissions calculations have been 
independently verified and certified.
Disclosure and Assurance
ADI publicly reports greenhouse gas emissions through the CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project).  We also respond to the CDP Water Programme module.  
More information is available in our 2019 public CDP response and can be accessed through the CDP Portal .
External Assurance Statement
ADI’s sustainability reporting is in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative Standards: Core Option. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: 
Core Option. Use of external assurance is noted in the report where it is used, though the report as a whole has not been externally assured
Comments and Feedback
We welcome stakeholder comments and feedback, which provide important input for the continual improvement of our sustainability programs and performance.  
Please direct any general comments or questions regarding environmental, health and safety (EHS) to ehs@analog.com. For any non-EHS related questions,  
please contact Sustainability@analog.com.
Additional Information
Additional Information on Analog Devices financial statements and operations is available in our annual report: Analog Devices 2019 Annual Report  and Analog Devices 10-K .
Learn more about our corporate responsibility efforts at analog.com/csrAPPENDIX
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
63print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddGRI  
STANDARDDISCLOSURE NUMBER AND TITLE RESPONSE
GENERAL DISCLOSURES
GRI 102:  
GENERAL 
DISCLOSURES102-1 Name of the organization Analog Devices, Inc.
102-2 Activities, brands, products and services ADI Products
102-3 Location of headquarters ADI Corporate Information, Regional Headquarters
102-4 Location of operations ADI has manufacturing facilities in the USA, Ireland and the Philippines. 2019 Annual Report Page 20
102-5 Ownership and legal form 2020 Proxy Statement
102-6 Markets served Corporate Responsibility Report About Our Company Page 7
102-7 Scale of the organization Corporate Responsibility Report  About Our Company Page 7
102-8 Information on employees and other workers Corporate Responsibility Report  About Our Company Page 7
102-9 Supply chainCorporate Responsibility Report  Promoting Good Governance Supply Chain  Page 61
2019 Annual Report Pages 7-8
102-10Significant changes to the organization and its 
supply chain2019 Annual Report Pages 7-8 and Page 20
102-11 Precautionary principle or approachADI applies the concepts of the precautionary approach by considering the long-term trajectory of climate change and its 
potential impacts on ADI. Elements of that ongoing evaluation are reflected  in ADI's sustainability web content.
102-12 External initiatives Corporate Responsibility Report Our Sustainability Approach Pages 9-14
102-13 Membership associationsADI subscribes to, is a member of and/or has committed to the following external initiatives: Catatlyst, International 
Standards Organization (ISO), Responsible Business Alliance (RBA), European Union’s Restriction of Hazardous 
Substances (ROHS), Registration Evaluation Authorization and Restriction of Chemical Substances (REACH), and  
End of Life (ELV) Directives in China RoHS.
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Corporate Responsibility Report  CEO Letter Pages 3-4
102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunitiesCorporate Responsibility Report  CEO Letter Pages 3-4
2019 Annual Report Page 10
102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviorCorporate Responsibility Report Promoting Good Governance Pages 52-61
ADI Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethicsCorporate Responsibility Report  Promoting Good Governance Pages 52-6 1
ADI Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Page 12GRI INDEXAPPENDIX
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
64print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddGRI  
STANDARDDISCLOSURE NUMBER AND TITLE RESPONSE
GRI 102:  
GENERAL 
DISCLOSURES102-18 Governance structureCorporate Responsibility Report  Promoting Good Governance Page 53  
2020 Proxy Statement
102-19 Delegating authority Corporate Governance Guidelines
102-20Executive level responsibility for economic, 
environmental and social topicsCorporate Responsibility Report  Promoting Good Governance Page 5 3
102-21Consulting stakeholders on economic, 
environmental and social topicsCorporate Responsibility Report  Our Sustainability Approach Page 11   
Corporate Responsibility Report  Promoting Good Governance Page s 53-61
102-22Composition of the highest governance body and  
its committees2020 Proxy Statement Page 29
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 2020 Proxy Statement Page 29
102-24Nominating and selecting the highest  
governance bodyNominating and Corporate Governance Committee Charter
102-25 Conflicts of interest ADI Company By Laws Page 20
102-26Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, 
values and strategyCorporate Governance Guidelines
102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance bodyCorporate Responsibility Report  Promoting Good Governance Pages 5 3-61  
2020 Proxy Statement Page 7
102-28Evaluating the highest governance body's 
performanceCorporate Governance Guidelines
102-29Identifying and managing economic, environmental 
and social impacts2020 Proxy Statement Page 26
102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processesCorporate Responsibility Report  Promoting Good Governance Page 5 8 
2020 Proxy Statement Page 32
102-31Review of economic, environmental  
and social topicsCorporate Responsibility Report  Promoting Good Governance Page 5 3-61
Corporate Governance Guidelines
102-32Highest governance body's role in  
sustainability reportingCorporate Responsibility Report  Promoting Good Governance Page 5 3
2020 Proxy Statement Page 2 6
102-33 Communicating critical concerns 2020 Proxy Statement Page 32GRI INDEXAPPENDIX
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
65print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddGRI  
STANDARDDISCLOSURE NUMBER AND TITLE RESPONSE
GRI 102:  
GENERAL 
DISCLOSURES102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns ADI Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Page 12
102-35 Remuneration policies 2020 Proxy Statement Page 40
102-36 Process for determining remuneration 2020 Proxy Statement Page 40
102-37 Stakeholder involvement in remuneration 2020 Proxy Statement Pages 2 and 25
102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 2020 Proxy Statement Page 66
102-39Percentage increase in annual total  
compensation ratio2020 Proxy Statement Page 66 and Page 54 (for previous year compensation)
102-40 List of stakeholder groupsADI Stakeholders include Employees, customers, investors, communities, governments, suppliers, media, shareholders 
and financial analysts.
102-41 Collective bargaining agreementsADI regards open communication and direct engagement between workers and management to be the most effective 
ways to resolve workplace and compensation issues. ADI respects the rights of workers to associate freely and seek to 
communicate openly with management regarding working conditions without fear of reprisal, intimidation or harassment. 
Globally, approximately 1.2% of our employees belong to unions.
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholdersCorporate Responsibility Report  Our Sustainability Approach Page 11
Corporate Responsibility Report  Promoting Good Governance Page 5 7
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagementCorporate Responsibility Report  Our Sustainability Approach Page 11
Corporate Responsibility Report  Promoting Good Governance Page 5 7
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Corporate Responsibility Report  Promoting Good Governance Page 59
102-45Entities included in the consolidated  
financial statements2019 Annual Report
102-46Process for defining report content and  
topic boundariesCorporate Responsibility Report  Our Sustainability Approach Pages 9-1 4
Corporate Responsibility Report  CEO Letter Page 3 -4
102-47 List of material topics Corporate Responsibility Report  Page 2
102-48 Restatements of information There are no restatements applicable to the scope and boundary of this reporting content  at this time.
102-49 Changes in reporting There are no significant changes in the list of material topics or boundaries at this time.
102-50 Reporting period The reporting period is the 12-month period ending December 31, 2019.
102-51 Date of most recent report This reporting period addresses the 2019 time frame. ADI's previous report addressed the 2016 to 2018 time frame.GRI INDEXAPPENDIX
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
66print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddGRI  
STANDARDDISCLOSURE NUMBER AND TITLE RESPONSE
GRI 102:  
GENERAL 
DISCLOSURES102-52 Reporting cycle Biennial Cycle—Transitioning to Annual
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the reportWe welcome—stakeholder comments and feedback, which provide important input for the continual improvement  
of our sustainability programs and performance. Please direct any general comments regarding this report to  
sustainability@analog.com.
102-54Claims of reporting in accordance with the  
GRI StandardsThe Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core Option. All relevant content is 
referenced in the GRI Index and is available to locations indicated in the GRI Index.
102-55 GRI content index This GRI Content Index Page 64-74  identifies the material sustainability topics addressed in this reporting.
102-56 External assuranceThis report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core Option.  
Use of external assurance is noted in the report where it is used, though the report as a whole has not been  
externally assured.
MANAGEMENT APPROACH
GRI 103: 
MANAGEMENT 
APPROACH103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary
Corporate Responsibility Report  CEO Letter Pages 3-4 , Our Sustainability Approach Pages 9-14 ,  
Protecting And Regenerating The Environment Page 15- 30, Empowering People Page 31- 44, Our Impact Pages 45-5 1,  
Promoting Good Governance Pages 52-61 , About The Report Page 6 3103-2 The management approach and its components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
ECONOMIC STANDARDS
GRI 201: 
ECONOMIC
PERFORMANCE201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2019 Annual Report Page 48
201-2Financial implications and other risks and 
opportunities due to climate changeAdditional information available in Analog Devices 10-K Filing  and CDP Portal
201-3Defined benefit plan obligations and other 
retirement plansADI 10-K Filing Pages 79-80
201-4 Financial assistance received from government 2019 Annual Report 
GRI 203: 
INDIRECT 
ECONOMIC 
IMPACT203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Omission: Information Unavailable Explanation: Site level investments not rolled up for tracking
203-2 Significant indirect economic impactsCorporate Responsibility Report  Talent Development Page 40
Corporate Responsibility Report  Impact With Engagement Pages 46-5 1GRI INDEXAPPENDIX
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
67print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddGRI  
STANDARDDISCLOSURE NUMBER AND TITLE RESPONSE
ANTI-CORRUPTION
GRI 205:  
ANTI- 
CORRUPTION103Management Approach Disclosure: Explanation of 
the material topic and its boundaryCorporate Responsibility Report  Compliance and Business Ethics Pages 59-6 1
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption All operations are assessed for risks related to corruption. No significant risks have been identified.
205-2Communication and  training about anti-corruption  
policies and proceduresCorporate Responsibility Report  Compliance and Business Ethics Page 60
205-3Confirmed incidents of corruption and  
actions takenAnalog Devices 10-K Page 21
Analog Devices 2019 Annual Report Page 21
ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR
GRI 206: ANTI-
COMPETITIVE 
BEHAVIOR103Management Approach Disclosure: Explanation of 
the material topic and its boundaryCorporate Responsibility Report  Compliance and Business Ethics Pages 53-61
206-1Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior,  
anti-trust and monopoly practicesCorporate Responsibility Report  Compliance and Business Ethics Page 60GRI INDEXAPPENDIX
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
68print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddGRI  
STANDARDDISCLOSURE NUMBER AND TITLE RESPONSE
ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS
GRI 302:  
ENERGY 302 Management Approach Disclosure: Energy Corporate Responsibility Report  Protecting & Regenerating The Environment Company Initiatives Page16
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Corporate Responsibility Report  Energy Efficiency Page 22
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Corporate Responsibility Report  Energy Efficiency Page 22
302-3 Energy intensity Corporate Responsibility Report  Energy Efficiency Page 22
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Corporate Responsibility Report  Energy Efficiency Page 22
GRI 303: 
W ATER303 Management Approach Disclosure: Water Corporate Responsibility Report  Water Conservation Page 23
303-1 Water withdrawal by source Corporate Responsibility Report  Water Conservation Page 23
303-2Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal 
of waterCorporate Responsibility Report  Water Conservation Page 23
303-3 Water recycled and reused Corporate Responsibility Report  Water Conservation Page 23
GRI 304: 
BIODIVERSITY304 Management Approach Disclosure: Biodiversity Corporate Responsibility Report  Our Impact Boosting Biodiversity Page 5 1
304-3 Habitats protected or restored Corporate Responsibility Report  Our Impact Boosting Biodiversity Page 5 1GRI INDEXAPPENDIX
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
69print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddGRI  
STANDARDDISCLOSURE NUMBER AND TITLE RESPONSE
GRI 305: 
EMISSIONS305 Management Approach Disclosure: Emissions Corporate Responsibility Report  Protecting & Regenerating The Environment Company Initiatives Page 16
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Corporate Responsibility Report  Scope 1 & 2 Page 1 8
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Corporate Responsibility Report  Scope 1 &2 Page 1 8
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Corporate Responsibility Report  Scope 3 Page 18
305-4 GHG emissions intensity Additional information available through CDP Portal
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Corporate Responsibility Report  Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Page 18
305-6 Emissions of ozone depleting substances (ODS) Additional information available through CDP Portal
305-7Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX) and other 
significant air emissionsAdditional information available through CDP Portal
GRI 306:
EFFLUENTS & 
WAST E306Management Approach Disclosure: Effluents  
& WasteCorporate Responsibility Report  Protecting & Regenerating The Environment Company Initiatives Page 16
306-1 Water discharge by quality and destinationCorporate Responsibility Report  Water Conservation Page 23
Additional information available through CDP Portal
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Corporate Responsibility Report  Waste Generation Page 24
306-3 Significant spills Corporate Responsibility Report  Pollution Prevention Page 25
306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Corporate Responsibility Report  Waste Generation Page 24
306-5Water bodies affected by water discharges  
and/or runoffAdditional information available through CDP PortalGRI INDEXAPPENDIX
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
70print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddGRI  
STANDARDDISCLOSURE NUMBER AND TITLE RESPONSE
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE
GRI 307: 
ENVIRONMENTAL 
COMPLIANCE307Management Approach Disclosure:  
Environmental ComplianceCorporate Responsibility Report  Systems & Compliance Page 28
307-1Non-compliance with environmental laws  
and regulationsCorporate Responsibility Report  Systems & Compliance Page 28
SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
GRI 308: 
SUPPLIER 
ENVIRONMENTAL 
ASSESSMENT308Management Approach Disclosure:  
Supplier Environmental AssessmentCorporate Responsibility Report  Systems & Compliance Page 28
308-1New suppliers that were screened using 
environmental criteriaCorporate Responsibility Report  Systems & Compliance Page 28
EMPLOYMENT
GRI 401: 
EMPLOYMENT401 Management Approach Disclosure: Employment Corporate Responsibility Report  CPO Letter Page 3 3
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Corporate Responsibility Report  Global Workforce Data Snapshot Pages 36-3 7
401-2Benefits provided to full-time employees that are 
not provided to temporary or part-time employeesCorporate Responsibility Report  Employee Benefits Page 3 9
401-3 Parental leave Corporate Responsibility Report  Employee Benefits Page 3 9
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
GRI 403: 
OCCUPATIONAL 
HEALTH  
AND SAFETY403Management Approach Disclosure:  
Occupational Health and SafetyCorporate Responsibility Report  Systems & Compliance Page 28
Corporate Responsibility Report  Worker Safety Page 4 4
403-1Workers’ representation in formal joint 
management—worker health and safety committeesCorporate Responsibility Report Worker Safety Page 4 4
403-2Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational 
diseases, lost days, absenteeism and number of 
work-related fatalitiesCorporate Responsibility Report  Worker Safety Page 4 4
403-3Workers with high incidence or high risk of  
diseases related to their occupationCorporate Responsibility Report  Worker Safety Page 4 4GRI INDEXAPPENDIX
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
71print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddGRI  
STANDARDDISCLOSURE NUMBER AND TITLE RESPONSE
TRAINING AND EDUCATION
GRI 404: 
TRAINING AND 
EDUCATION404Management Approach Disclosure:  
Training and EducationCorporate Responsibility Report  Training and Development Pages 40-4 1
404-2Programs for upgrading employee skills and 
transition assistance programsCorporate Responsibility Report Training and Development Pages 40-4 1
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
GRI 405: 
DIVERSITY AND 
INCLUSION405Management Approach Disclosure:  
Diversity and InclusionCorporate Responsibility Report  CPO Letter Page  33
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Corporate Responsibility Report  Diversity and Inclusion Page  43
405-2Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of  
women to menCorporate Responsibility Report  Diversity and Inclusion Page  38
NON DISCRIMINATION
GRI 406: NON 
DISCRIMINATION406Management Approach Disclosure:  
Non-discriminationADI Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Page 4
FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING
GRI 407: 
FREEDOM OF 
ASSOCIATION 
AND COLLECTIVE 
BARGAINING407Management Approach Disclosure:  
Freedom of Association and Collective BargainingCorporate Responsibility Report  Treating Employees Fairly Page 4 3
407-1Operations and suppliers in which the right  
to freedom of association and collective  
bargaining may be at riskCorporate Responsibility Report Treating Employees Fairly Page 4 3
CHILD LABOR
GRI:408  
CHILD LABOR408 Management Approach Disclosure: Child Labor Corporate Responsibility Report  Treating Employees Fairly Page 4 3
408-1Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 
incidents of child laborCorporate Responsibility Report  Treating Employees Fairly Page 4 3
FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR
GRI 409:  
 FORCED OR 
COMPULSORY 
LABOR409Management Approach Disclosure:  
Forced or Compulsory BehaviorCorporate Responsibility Report  Treating Employees Fairly Page 4 3
409-1Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 
incidents of forced or compulsory laborCorporate Responsibility Report  Treating Employees Fairly Page 4 3
Corporate Responsibility Report  Compliance and Business Ethics Pages 5 9-61GRI INDEXAPPENDIX
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
72print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddGRI  
STANDARDDISCLOSURE NUMBER AND TITLE RESPONSE
SECURITY PRACTICES
GRI 410: 
SECURITY 
PRACTICES410-1Security personnel trained in human rights  
policies or procedures100% of security personnel are trained in ADI's human rights policies or procedures relevant to operations.
HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT
GRI 412: 
HUMAN RIGHTS 
ASSESSMENT412Management Approach Disclosure:  
Human Rights AssessmentCorporate Responsibility Report  Empowering People Treating Employees Fairly Pages 43
412-1Operations that have been subject to human rights 
reviews or impact assessmentsCorporate Responsibility Report  Compliance and Business Ethics Pages 59-61
412-2Employee training on human rights policies  
or proceduresCorporate Responsibility Report  Compliance and Business Ethics Pages 59-61
LOCAL COMMUNITIES
GRI 413:  
LOCAL 
COMMUNITIES413Management Approach Disclosure:  
Local CommunitiesCorporate Responsibility Report  Our Impact Pages 4 5-51
413-1Operations with local community engagement, 
impact assessments and development programsCorporate Responsibility Report  Our Impact Pages 45- 51
413-2Operations with significant actual and potential 
negative impacts on local communitiesAnalog Devices 10-K Page 18
SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
GRI 414: 
SUPPLIER SOCIAL 
ASSESSMENT414Management Approach Disclosure:  
Supplier Social AssessmentCorporate Responsibility Report  Compliance and Business Ethics Page 6 1
414-1New suppliers that were screened using  
social criteriaCorporate Responsibility Report  Compliance and Business Ethics Page 6 1
414-2Negative social impacts in the supply chain  
and actions takenAnalog Devices 10-K Page 17
PUBLIC POLICY
GRI 415:  
PUBLIC POLICY415 Management Approach Disclosure: Public Policy Corporate Responsibility Report  Compliance and Business Ethics Pages 5 9-61
415-1 Political contributions ADI Code of Business Conduct and EthicsGRI INDEXAPPENDIX
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
73print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddGRI  
STANDARDDISCLOSURE NUMBER AND TITLE RESPONSE
CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY
GRI 416: 
CUSTOMER 
HEALTH AND 
SAFETY416Management Approach Disclosure:  
Customer Health and SafetyAnalog Devices Quality & Reliability Program
416-1Assessment of the health and safety impacts of 
product and service categoriesAnalog Devices Quality & Reliability Program-Functional Safety
416-2Incidents of noncompliance concerning the health 
and safety impacts of products and servicesAnalog Devices 10-K Page 21
MARKETING AND LABELING
GRI 417: 
MARKETING  
AND LABELING417Management Approach Disclosure:  
Marketing and LabelingAnalog Devices Quality & Reliability Program
417-1Requirements for product and service  
information and labelingAnalog Devices Quality & Reliability Program-Material Declarations
417-2 Incidents of noncompliance concerning  product 
and service information and labelingAnalog Devices 10-K Page 21
CUSTOMER PRIV ACY
GRI 418: 
CUSTOMER 
PRIV ACY418Management approach disclosure:  
Customer PrivacyAnalog Devices Privacy and Security Statement 
418-1Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of 
customer privacy and losses of customer dataAnalog Devices 10-K Page 21
SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE
GRI 419: 
SOCIOECONOMIC 
COMPLIANCE419-1Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the 
social and economic areaAnalog Devices 10-K
Analog Devices 2019 Annual Report Page 21GRI INDEXAPPENDIX
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
74print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddUNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS STATEMENT
Analog Devices corporate responsibility strategy and initiatives are in alignment with the UN SDGS to support a better and more sustainable future for all.   
More information on the initiatives in this report that align with the UN SDGS are noted below:
Improving Lives Through Technology  Page 13 
Technology solutions for diagnostic and testing medical equipment including  
ventilators, respirators, test and imaging systems. 
Responding To COVID-19   Pages 47-4 8
Prioritizing healthcare customer shipments to support manufacturing of critical 
medial equipment as well as supporting R&D initiatives with the W.H.O. and  
Mass General Hospital.
Improving Lives Through Technology  Page 13  
Technologies to make factory floors safer and enabling the next generation of 
wireless communications with core technologies for 5G network infrastructure.
Diversity and Inclusion  Pages 34-3 5
We’re committed to increasing diversity across the organization and nurturing  
a culture of inclusion where every employee brings their best to their jobs. 
Treating Employees Fairly  Page 4 3
ADI is committed to treating every single one of our global employees fairly and 
with dignity. We always comply with local laws, and indeed, often go above and 
beyond them to lead by example.
Impact Through Engagement-STEM Education  Page 49 
Supporting science, technology, engineering and math programs in the U.S.,  
Europe and Asia for over 35 years.
Protecting and Regenerating the Environment  Page 24
We implemented an audit of all waste streams to identify opportunities to  
improve resulting in 60% of our solid waste being recycled in 2019.
Ethical Supply Chain  Page 6 1
ADI expects suppliers to adhere to the same business ethics and human rights 
standards ADI has set for itself. 
Protecting and Regenerating the Environment  Page 23
Water conservation initiatives to reduce impact in our manufacturing and  
office facilities.
Protecting and Regenerating the Environment  Pages 18-19 
We achieved a 37% reduction in Scope 1+2 GHG emissions since 2015 due to  
renewable energy sourcing and more efficient abatement systems.
Innovating for The Environment  Page 12
Technology solutions for electric vehicles, energy storage systems and  
improving power efficiency in data centers.
Protecting & Regenerating The Environment  Pages 22 and 29
Reducing usage of energy in our manufacturing and office facilities.
Boosting Biodiversity  Page 5 1
Support for biodiversity conservation programs at our facilities and in our  
local communities. 
Empowering People  Pages 31-4 4
ADI believes the talent of our people is how we will succeed as a company, which 
is why we are committed to creating a culture that invests in our people,  
is inclusive and treats employees equitably and fairly.APPENDIX
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
75print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.indd
76FORW ARD-THINKING STATEMENT
This report may be deemed to contain forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe 
harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These 
forward-looking statements include, among other things, our statements regarding our future 
results of operations and financial condition; our strategy and competitive advantages; and the 
expected opportunities, benefits and developments associated with our diversity and inclusion 
strategy and programs. The statements contained in this report are not guarantees of future 
performance, are inherently uncertain, and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions 
that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from 
what is expressed in such forward-looking statements, and such statements should not be relied 
upon as representing our expectations or beliefs as of any date subsequent to the date of this 
report. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results 
described, implied or projected in any forward-looking statements include changes in global 
economic conditions, difficulty or delay in the design, development, production and marketing of 
our products, technologies and solutions, our ability to recruit or retain key personnel and other 
risk factors described in our most recent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements made by us.APPENDIX
2019 ANALOG DEVICES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
76print scale  None 16251_ADI_ESG_Report_FINAL_051220.inddAnalog Devices Headquarters
One Technology Way
P.O. Box 9106
Norwood, MA 02062-9106
U.S.A.
Tel: 781.329.4700
©2020 Analog Devices, Inc. All rights reserved. Trademarks and registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners.