CORPORATE  
Sustainability  
Report
SUPPORTING THE ENERGY TRANSITIONTABLE OF CONTENTS
Founders’ Message to Our Stakeholders ...... 1  
 Our Company  ............................................ 11 
 Report Highlights ....................................... 12
Sustainability Leadership, Strategy,  
& Governance  ................................................ 14 
 Our Leadership  .......................................... 15 
 Our Strategy .............................................. 17 
 Corporate Governance  .............................. 19
Community & Stakeholder Engagement  ...... 20
Antero Foundation  ........................................ 24
Environment  .................................................. 25 
 Environmental Management System  ......... 26 
 Emissions  ................................................... 30 
  GHG & Air Pollutant Emissions .............. 31 
  Leaders in Emission Reduction ............. 36 
  Emission Mitigation Efforts  ................... 38 
 Energy Use  ................................................ 40 
 Natural Resources & Biodiversity  ............. 41  Water Resources & Management  ............. 47 
  Water Quality  ........................................ 48 
  Produced Water Management  ............. 49 
  Spill Preventionz Management,  
  & Performance  ...................................... 52 
  Waste  .................................................... 55 
  Recycling  .............................................. 58
Health & Safety .............................................. 59 
 Safety Management System  ..................... 60 
 Risk Assessment & Hazard Recognition   ...61 
 Incident Reporting System  ....................... 63 
 HSSE, Social & Governance Training  ........ 64 
 Emergency Preparedness & Planning  ...... 66 
 Contractor Safety Management  ............... 69 
 Occupational Health  ................................. 70 
 Health and Safety Performance  ................ 71
Security  ......................................................... 72
Pipeline Integrity  ........................................... 74
Contact Us  ..................................................... 82Headings are linked to each individual section.
FOUNDERS’ MESSAGE TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS
Since we embarked on this incredible journey as shale gas pioneers in 2003, we have 
remained true to our values of creating a sustainable business model and a resilient 
company. Our company culture is based on core business principles of safety for our 
employees, contractors and the community, integrity, performance, stewardship of 
the land and environment, and relentless innovation. These values and principles are 
ingrained in our corporate DNA.
Our core sustainability programs strengthen our business and inspire confidence  
in our employees, investors, creditors, and contractors, as well as with regulatory  
agencies and within the communities in which we operate. We take a highly proactive 
approach to develop and implement work practices and technologies to deliver 
natural gas, natural gas liquids and oil in the most ethical, environmentally and socially 
responsible way possible. 
Natural gas is a key component in the energy transition and to our ability to address 
the risks associated with climate change. If produced and transported properly, natural 
gas development should be supported by the investment and regulatory communities. 
As the lightest and least greenhouse gas (GHG) intensive hydrocarbon, natural gas is 
expected to play a fundamental role as both the U.S. and global economies to transition 
to a lower carbon future. Natural gas is part of the solution and can be produced and 
transported with de minimis leakage and loss.
Leed Gold Certified Denver Headquarters buildingANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 1
Environment
We recognize the growing concern over climate change and are committed to 
proactively managing our business to reduce GHG emissions, including methane 
emissions and limit the environmental impact of our operations. We lead the industry 
with our low GHG intensity, which has remained relatively constant since 2016. Our 
methane leak loss rate, calculated per the ONE Future protocol, was at 0.017% in 2019, 
well below ONE Future industry and sector targets of 1.00% and 0.08%, respectively. 
Water is a critical resource that is utilized in shale completion operations. Antero has 
the most extensive freshwater pipeline network in the industry, which is used to deliver 
water to well pads for completion operations. Each year our freshwater pipeline system 
eliminates the need for hundreds of thousands of water truckloads traversing local roads 
in and around the communities where we operate. Our freshwater pipeline system has a 
tremendous positive impact on emissions reduction and safety. 
Further, Antero has utilized a rigorous leak detection and repair (LDAR) program on 
all of its facilities and pipelines for many years. These best practices have resulted 
in our industry-leading GHG intensity and leak loss rate numbers. Antero actively 
participates in a number of voluntary programs that focus on reducing emissions. In 
2018, Antero became a member of ONE Future, an industry collective focused on 
voluntarily  reducing methane emissions across the natural gas supply chain. Antero’s 
GHG performance metrics demonstrate that natural gas can live up to its promise as a 
transition fuel and reduce GHG emissions by more than half, as compared to coal.
Leed Gold Certified Denver Headquarters buildingANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 2
Safety
Safety performance starts with culture, and we have built a strong safety culture and 
dedicated environmental stewardship that starts at the top of the organization. We are 
laser-focused on health, safety, security, and preservation of the environment (HSSE). 
Importantly, we empower everyone on the job site, employee or contractor, with Stop 
Work Authority.  We believe that our HSSE success is partly due to continuous incident 
and risk evaluation and improvements to our safety leadership, management and 
systems. We have earned a reputation as an industry leading safe and environmentally 
responsible operator through continuous emphasis on our HSSE performance. This 
reputation also makes Antero an employer of choice in Appalachia.
In 2019, we continued to focus on the health and safety of our employees and the 
public, managing greenhouse gas emissions and recycling produced water from Antero 
Resources’ operations to reduce freshwater use. We focused on enhancing our safety 
and environmental management systems and continued open, honest, and transparent 
dialogues with our shareholders, communities, industry peers, and regulators. Our plan 
for 2020 includes continued improvement of our management systems, developing 
of a disclosure strategy to align with both the Task Force for Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) guidelines and the Sustainability Accounting Standards  
Board (SASB).
Leed Gold Certified Denver Headquarters buildingANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 3
Every day, the safety of our employees and contractors is our top priority. In 2019, 
Antero Midstream work locations experienced zero employee or contractor fatalities 
and an employee and contractor Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) of 0.055, a 51% 
reduction since 2016. Similarly, the Antero employee and contractor Total Recordable 
Rate (TRIR) of 0.547, represents a 56% improvement since 2016. In comparison,  
the 2019 ISNetworld onshore oil and gas benchmark averages for our industry are 0.32 
LTIR and 0.95 TRIR. These results significantly outperformed the 2018 U.S. Bureau of 
Labor Statistics benchmark averages for our industry. Antero’s highly successful HSSE 
team guides us toward our stipulated goal of “Zero Incidents, Zero Harm and Zero 
Compromise.” 
Governance
We have worked aggressively to ensure appropriate alignment among all our 
constituents. As part of the 2019 combination of two of our publicly-traded midstream 
entities, Antero Midstream eliminated its Incentive Distribution Rights (IDRs), converted 
into a C-Corp and redesigned its board to include a majority of independent directors; 
together these actions represented the most comprehensive governance changes 
among such “Simplification” transactions. Subsequently, we have added a number of 
new directors to both the Antero Resources and the Antero Midstream boards. We are 
excited about the many years of industry technical and leadership experience which 
our directors bring to the board. We are also focused on gender diversity, as two of 
our nine directors at both companies are women. In addition, we are proud to note 
that the head of our operations, geology, accounting, legal and land administration 
Leed Gold Certified Denver Headquarters buildingANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 4
departments are all women. We also recently formed Environmental, Sustainability, and 
Social Governance (ESG) committees of the board for both Antero Resources and Antero 
Midstream which further reinforces our emphasis on the importance of accelerating the 
agenda on environmental sustainability, safety, and governance topics.
The Energy Transition
There is growing momentum to identify and implement solutions to reduce GHG 
emissions without sacrificing economic and humanitarian imperatives such as a rising 
standard of living for much of the underdeveloped world, in particular. Stable and 
affordable energy supplies will make it possible for more people to access healthcare, 
transportation and education that contribute to improved living standards and a higher 
quality of life. Embrace of the energy transition to a lower carbon environment is 
ubiquitous across government, industry, investors, creditors and the public sectors.  
We believe that it is critical for Antero to be a leader in the global energy transition and 
to be part of the solution. 
For context, the world consumes almost 600 exajoules (EJ) of primary energy per year, 
the vast majority of which is derived from hydrocarbons (Figure 1 World Consumption). 
Natural gas consumption has been increasing for the last 25 years, while renewables 
began to increase at a rapid rate about 15 years ago (Figure 2 Shares of Global Primary 
Energy). Natural gas and renewables are slowly displacing oil and coal in the energy mix. 
Much of that displacement is a result of the electrification that has occurred over the  
past 20 years.
Leed Gold Certified Denver Headquarters buildingANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 5
Source: BP Statistical Review of World Energy 2020300500600
400
200
100Figure 1: World Consumption (Exajoules)
1994 2004 2014 1999 2009 2019
Renewables Coal
Hydroelectrycity
OilNatural Gas
Nuclear EnergyCoal
Natural Gas
OilFigure 2: Shares of Global Primary Energy (%)
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
1994 2004 2014 1999 2009 2019
RenewablesCoalHydroelectrycity Oil
Natural GasNuclear Energy
Source: BP Statistical Review of World Energy 2020Oil
Coal
Natural Gas
Renewables
Figure 3, entitled World Energy Demand by Source, forecasts energy consumption 
through 2050, where hydrocarbons still comprise about 55% of energy demand. Figure 
4, entitled World Final Energy Demand by Carrier, converts some of the global energy 
consumption to electricity. The reduction in scale and change in composition between 
Figure 3 and 4 reflects the impact of conversion losses and the fact that a significant 
amount of primary energy is used to generate electricity. The displacement trend is 
forecast to continue over the next 30 years as the consumption of oil and coal eventually 
Leed Gold Certified Denver Headquarters buildingANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 6
decline and global natural gas consumption grows slowly. Overall energy consumption 
is forecast to continue to grow due to an expanding global economy and population 
until efficiency gains slow growth around 2030. 
Wind GeothermalSolar PV
Natural Gas
OilCoalNuclear
Solar ThermalHydropowerBiomass100300
200400500600700
1980 1990 2000 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050Figure 3: World Energy Demand by Source (Ej/yr)
Source: IEA Electricity Information 2019Coal
Natural Gas
Oil
HydrogenOff-grid PV
Natural Gas
OilCoalBiomass
Solar ThermalElectricityDirect Heat100200300400500Figure 4: World Final Energy Demand by Carrier (Ej/yr)
Source: IEA Electricity Information 20191980 1990 2000 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050Coal
Natural GasElectricity
Oil
Within the final energy demand stack, electricity demand is expected to accelerate 
and more than double during the next 30 years as the manufacturing, commercial 
building, and transport sectors rely more heavily on electricity as opposed to direct 
fossil fuels as an energy source (Figure 5 World Electricity Generation Mix). Meeting 
this increased electricity demand with zero and lower carbon electricity generation 
Leed Gold Certified Denver Headquarters buildingANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 7
alternatives such as solar, wind, and natural gas, is the key to the success of the energy 
transition. In the International Energy Administration (IEA) forecast below, renewables 
are expected to grow from a single digit contribution to almost two-thirds of electricity 
supply by 2050, while natural gas consumption grows slightly and coal use for electricity 
generation declines to very low levels. Fulfillment of these objectives will require a mix 
of both lower carbon conventional supply and zero carbon new builds over the next few 
decades along with policy support from governments around the world, as well as a 
significant amount of capital.
Figure 5: World Electricity Generation by Power Station Type (PWh/yr)
Wind
GeothermalSolar PVNatural Gas
Oil
Coal01040
2050
3060
1980 1990 2000 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050
Source: IEA Electricity Information 2019NuclearHydropower
BiomassWind
Solar
Natural Gas
CoalHydro
Mostly recently, the 2015 Paris Agreement aims to hold the increase in global average 
temperatures to well below 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. The IEA, 
in turn, has developed two long term projections for energy supply and demand. 
The importance of these projections cannot be overstated as even under the IEA’s 
Leed Gold Certified Denver Headquarters buildingANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 8
Sustainable Development Scenario which is “Paris Agreement-aligned”, natural gas 
consumption is forecast to grow slightly between 2018 and 2040 as its share of the 
global energy demand mix increases from 22.9% to 23.8% (Figure 6 Energy Demand Mix 
by Source). Moreover, under the IEA’s Stated Policy Scenerio, natural gas consumption is 
forecast to increase by 35.8% and contribute 25.1% of the global energy demand mix  
by 2040. Given the scale of global energy demand and the capital and incentives 
required to meaningfully shift the mix, decarbonize does not mean eliminate all 
hydrocarbons over the next 20 years.  
Source: IEA World Energy Outlook 201920183,821
STATED  
POLICIES  
SCENARIOSUSTAINABLE  
DEVELOPMENT  
SCENARIO
2040361361
36170970929317,723
13,279
3,821 3,779
1,4703,0413,1621,1491,6282,231
4,9214,4451,8281,320
3,2731,357
4,50114,315Figure 6: Energy Demand Mix by Source (Mtoe)
Natural Gas
OilCoal Renewables
Bioenergy“Decarbonize”  does not  
mean “eliminate”
22.9%25.1%
23.8%
NuclearHydropower
Leed Gold Certified Denver Headquarters buildingANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 9
GLEN C. WARREN, JR.
President, CFO and Director  
Co-FounderPAUL M. RADY
Chairman and CEO 
Co-FounderSummary
In short, investors, creditors, the communities in which we operate, and employees 
can be stakeholders in a hydrocarbon business that is natural gas focused while at the 
same time meeting high environmental sustainability, safety, and governance standards. 
Antero meets or beats all of those standards. It is clear that the only way to reduce 
the carbon footprint while addressing the needs of a growing global economy and 
population is to transition to an energy supply stack with much less coal, eventually less 
oil and a growing baseload of natural gas and renewables, primarily delivered in the 
form of electricity. 
Our outstanding ESG performance exemplifies our unwavering commitment to make 
every effort to do the right thing, take accountability for our actions and maintain our 
position as a world-class sustainable energy producer, partner, and employer of choice. 
We are dedicated to adapting, leading, and operating ethically and responsibly. This 
commitment is evident in our performance and culture as we proactively care for our 
employees, contractors, community, and the environment. In sum, we are intensely 
focused on and have unwavering confidence that the Antero companies are doing the 
right things, the right way, for the right reasons.
Leed Gold Certified Denver Headquarters building
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 10
OUR COMPANY
532,000+LARGEST FRESHWATER 
PIPELINE DELIVERY NETWORK 
IN APPALACHIA, ELIMINATED 
590,000 WATER TRUCK TRIPS 
IN 2019#1
50/50 JOINT VENTURE 
PARTNER IN LARGEST GAS 
PROCESSING COMPLEX IN 
NORTH AMERICA (1)
SUPPORTS 3RD 
LARGEST U.S. NATURAL 
GAS PRODUCERSUPPORTS 2ND 
LARGEST U.S. NGL 
PRODUCER430+ MILES OF LOW 
AND HIGH PRESSURE 
GATHERING PIPELINE
Antero Midstream Corporation (NYSE: AM) owns, operates and develops midstream gathering, 
compression, processing and fractionation assets located in West Virginia and Ohio, as well as  
integrated water assets that primarily service Antero Resources Corporation’s properties. 
(1) 50/50 Joint Venture on plants 7 through 
13, which accounts for 27% net of full 
Sherwood Processing Facility 
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 11
REPORT HIGHLIGHTS
2025 GOALS  
Continued Environmental Improvement
STRONG Governance Gender Diversity
Proactive Engagement with 
Shareholders Regarding  
ESG Performance and  
Management Compensation Formed ESG Committee  of 
Board to Guide and Govern 
ESG Initiatives66.7%100% Reduction  in pigging 
emissions by 2025
22% of Directors, SVPs, and VPs including Head of 
Operations, Head of Geology, Chief Accounting 
Officer, and General Counsel are Female  33% of Independent Directors are Female
COMMUNITY Engagement
Contributed $570,000  to Community  
and Civic Organizations in 2019Independent Directors
3,200 Employee Hours Volunteered in 2019Align with TCFD  
and SASB Guidelines
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 12
REPORT HIGHLIGHTS
0.017% in 2019  
One of the Lowest Methane 
Leak Loss Rates  in the IndustryOne of the Lowest GHG 
Emission Intensity Metrics   
in the Industry in 2019
7,556  Employee  
Safety Training Hours  in 201988%  of Total Produced Water 
Gathered was Reused0.055 Lost Time Incident Rate  
in 2019, one of the Lowest in the Industry
6 Straight Years  Without an 
Employee Lost Time Incident100%  of Freshwater Supplied was 
Transported by PipelineWater Pipeline Eliminated  
590,000 Truck Trips  in 2019
6 yrs
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 13
SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP , STRATEGY , & GOVERNANCE
Our forward-looking, beyond-compliance, and proactive approach allows us to assess 
and manage risks and opportunities effectively. Management employs prospective 
strategies to mitigate risks and reduce the impact on people, the environment, and 
the community. The company relies upon technical expertise and an experienced 
employee base to drive solutions and innovation related to risks and opportunities. 
In 2019, we continued to focus on managing greenhouse gas emissions and  
recycling produced water from Antero Resources’ operations to reduce freshwater  
use, as well as the health and safety of our employees and the public. We focused  
on enhancing our safety and environmental management systems and continued 
open, honest, and transparent dialogues with our shareholders, communities,  
industry peers, and regulators. Our plan for 2020 includes continued improvement  
of our management systems, developing a disclosure strategy to align with both 
the Task Force for Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) guidelines and 
the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB). Governance of ESG issues, 
including climate-related risks and opportunities, are delegated to the newly formed 
ESG Board Committee.
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 14
OUR LEADERSHIP
HSSE leadership at Antero starts at the very top of the organization, with executives and 
senior management driving the HSSE culture of the company. A focus on health, safety, 
security, and preservation of the environment (HSSE) puts people and the community 
first. It is the right thing to do and also makes good business sense. Dedicated 
environmental stewardship and a strong safety culture reduces risk and enhances 
productivity. We have earned a reputation as a safe and environmentally responsible 
operator through continuous emphasis on our HSSE performance. This reputation also 
makes Antero an employer of choice in Appalachia.
SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP , STRATEGY , & GOVERNANCE
THE CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE (CSC) 
REVIEWS AND PROVIDES FEEDBACK ON HSSE INITIATIVES 
TO DRIVE IMPROVEMENT IN OUR EVOLVING SAFETY AND 
ENVIRONMENTAL WORK PRACTICES FOR EMPLOYEES  
AND CONTRACTORS.
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 15
Corporate and field senior staff members, including the Chairman/CEO and  
President/Director for Antero Midstream, congregate weekly in an Antero operations 
meeting which begins with reviews of Antero HSSE incidents, incident rates, and 
initiatives. The tone for our safety culture and environmental sensitivity is set at the  
top of the organization. 
Antero’s senior management is active in several committees, such as the Corporate 
Sustainability Committee (CSC) and the Field HSSE Committee (FHSSEC). The CSC 
consists of the Chief Administrative Officer/SVP of Appalachian Region, SVP of 
Production, VP of Operations, VP of HSSE, along with other key senior staff. The CSC 
committee reviews and provides feedback on our HSSE initiatives to drive improvement 
in our evolving safety and environmental work practices for employees and contractors. 
The CSC meetings are well attended and occur quarterly. 
The Field HSSE Committee consists of thirty key senior field staff who are responsible 
for reviewing and updating new programs and technology in support of Antero’s 
commitment to achieving the best safety and environmental practices in the industry. 
This Antero committee meets once a quarter to review relevant items from Antero’s safe 
and environmental work practices, management of change, safety and environmental 
data systems, and key leading and lagging performance indicators. The Field 
Committee and VP of HSSE presents new initiatives to the CSC for approval.
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 16
OUR STRATEGY
Commitment to the health and safety of our employees, security of our assets, and 
preservation of the environment are all core values of our organization and essential  
to our ability to add sustainable value as a business. We focus on maximizing 
shareholder value while maintaining a heavy commitment to health, safety, security,  
and the environment.
Antero Midstream is committed to the following:
  Conducting our business in compliance with applicable health, safety, and 
environmental (HSE) laws, rules and regulations 
 Using natural resources and energy efficiently
  Expecting every employee and contractor working for, and on Antero Midstream’s 
behalf, to share our values and commitment to Zero Incidents, Zero Harm,  
Zero Compromise 
  Proactively working and operating to protect our people, the community, the 
environment, and our assets 
  Empowering employees through our HSSE Leadership model which encourages 
people to speak up about safety, security, and environmental concerns and take 
responsibility for their actions through our Stop Work Authority program
  Implementing and monitoring continual improvement workflows necessary to create 
quantifiable, resilient HSSE programs (the “HSSE Management Systems”) 
  Investing in HSSE training and coaching, promoting risk assessments, and 
encouraging visible HSSE leadership 
SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP , STRATEGY , & GOVERNANCE
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 17
  Reducing emissions, releases, and increasing efficiency by evaluating and 
implementing new technologies while continually improving our designs  
and workflows
  Maintaining emergency preparedness systems and Crisis and Field Incident 
Management Teams (IMT)
 Monitoring and reporting sustainability performance regularly
  Conducting routine assessments and inspections to assess and improve  
our performance 
  Minimizing waste at the source and, when generated, to handle such waste in  
an environmentally safe and compliant manner
  Engaging with investors, customers, employees, contractors, local communities, 
regulatory agencies, surface and mineral owners, and peers to provide an 
opportunity for transparent dialogue, information sharing, and problem solving
Our risk management process involves a review of short and long-term risks. Quarterly, 
the risk lead for each department identifies new risks and previously identified risks and 
proposed mitigation actions, and presents them for approval by the department vice 
president or senior vice president. Upon approval, the Internal Audit, Compliance, and 
Risk Department compiles all risks for tracking purposes. Annually, we discuss long-term 
risks with the executive team and incorporate them into the company risk register. We 
present a full update of short and long-term risks to the Board of Directors regularly and 
have more substantive conversations with the Board on a specific risk area at least three 
times in a year. 
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 18
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Antero’s corporate governance foundation is laid in its Certificate of Incorporation;  
By-Laws; Audit, Compensation, Nominating and Governance and ESG Board  
Committee Charters; and in its Corporate Code of Business Conduct, its Financial  
Code of Ethics and its Corporate Governance Guidelines, each of which are publicly 
available on our website. 
The Board of Directors of Antero Midstream has delegated advisory authority to the 
Environment, Sustainability, and Social Governance (ESG) Committee, a committee of 
independent directors appointed by the Board on matters relating to ESG, including 
climate-related risks. The purpose of the ESG Committee is to: 
  Provide guidance to the Company and its Board on matters relating to the 
identification, evaluation and monitoring of environmental sustainability,  
corporate citizenship and social and political trends, issues, and concerns
  Oversee and provide advice on improvements to corporate sustainability or  
other public policy initiatives, policies, and practices to enhance its alignment with, 
and promote the achievement of, the Company’s strategy in a manner consistent 
with its values
  Advise the Board and management on significant public policy issues that are 
pertinent to the Company and its stakeholders
The ESG Committee meets regularly throughout the year. 
Members: 
Brooks Klimley – Chair  |  Janine McArdle  |  John Mollenkopf
SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP , STRATEGY , & GOVERNANCE
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 19
COMMUNITY & STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Antero’s economic impact in North Central West Virginia and Southeast Ohio is 
significant. With 276 direct employees and more than three-thousand contract 
personnel, the company is a meaningful contribution to regional employment. Further, 
Antero paid $680 million in royalties and lease bonuses, and $121 million in severance, 
ad valorem and sales tax in 2019 – enabling state and municipal governments to provide 
needed services to West Virginians and Ohioans. 
Antero is committed to generating solutions to community issues, promoting economic 
opportunities, and building relationships with people in the communities where we 
operate to help those communities develop and thrive. Antero’s senior management 
team proactively responds to concerns logged in a dedicated system for monitoring 
social issues. We expect our employees to be kind, courteous, and good neighbors to 
those in the community. 
A high level of engagement with our customers, employees, contractors, local 
communities, regulatory agencies, surface and mineral owners, shareholders and 
bondholders, and peers is critical to our success. Open dialogue with our stakeholders 
about important issues creates opportunities for information sharing and problem 
solving. The following are ways we maintain and build stakeholder engagement:
  Antero provides investors, via our website, with financial presentations, SEC 
filings, and press releases. Antero senior management attends equity and bond 
conferences, meets with institutional investors, and communicates to investors 
interested in sustainability issues. Antero’s Investor Relations team maintains  
contact with investors on an ongoing basis and responds to customer requests  
for sustainability information.
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 20
  Antero engages contractors through daily tailgate meetings, site orientations, 
recognition programs, training, and performance management through a vendor 
management service. Antero holds an annual Contractor HSSE conference in West 
Virginia to provide relevant training, new HSSE initiatives, and recognition for 
performance to our contractors and vendors. Antero held a hands-on Environmental 
workshop for its contractors in 2019 to focus on sustainability and regulatory 
compliance issues.
  Our communities include emergency management agencies (EMAs), residents, 
and elected officials. We promote transparency by providing tours of our facilities 
to local and state officials, including active drilling and completion operations. We 
meet regularly with EMAs to discuss emergency preparedness plans and conduct 
drills. Antero has donated emergency response equipment to EMAs. For the past 
several years, we sponsored the Emergency Management Association of Ohio 
spring conference. 
  Antero meets with local, state, and federal regulatory agencies regularly. Our 
engagement includes discussing regulatory issues and sharing lessons learned  
and current industry perspectives.
  We work with state and local elected officials to serve their constituents through 
job creation, environmental stewardship, and community development. We provide 
technical marketing expertise to state development offices eager to capture 
the downstream economic growth that comes from natural gas liquids. We sit 
on boards, panels, and sponsor conferences, all working toward stimulating the 
Appalachian economy. 
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 21
  Antero employees serve on local county oil and gas task forces. Some examples of  
local task force initiatives include operational traffic curfews to avoid interacting with 
school bus traffic on local roads, traffic planning programs, provision of pilot vehicles 
to guide traffic on rural roads, and road repairs. 
  Feedback received from our 24/7 hotline goes to our Community Relations team for 
review and resolution. Antero implements operational best practices in response 
to community feedback. Examples include the restricted use of Jake brakes by 
commercial vehicles, the placement of flaggers and escort vehicles in high volume 
traffic areas, and the use of dust suppressant to mitigate dust on roads with heavy 
traffic. Since 2013, Antero has spent over $200 million on local road maintenance 
and upgrades. 
  Before building any site, Antero’s land agents meet with surface owners to negotiate 
their land use. Once agreements are in place, Antero conducts impact studies to 
mitigate concerns such as light, noise, dust, vibrations, odor, and traffic in the design 
of the site. Measures to combat those concerns include the installation of sound 
walls and light shields, and the use of dust suppressant. 
  Antero provides snow removal and ice control to many of the communities where 
we operate, relieving some financial impact on local WVDOH and county offices. 
Often, several pads are built off one access road, keeping drilling and completion 
equipment moves on lease roads, and off state and local routes. When feasible,  
we perform operations simultaneously to lessen the timeline for disruption in  
the community.
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 22
Antero’s Community Relations hotline is a telephone and email system that collects 
reports of issues such as noise, dust, speeding, road maintenance, and property 
damage. Our hotline contact information is broadly distributed to surface owners,  
at community events, on social media, and provided to our vendors. We make every 
effort for a live representative to answer calls made to the hotline during regular  
business hours, or return calls within 24 hours. Complaints are assigned to the 
appropriate department for review and resolution. A site visit is often scheduled to 
investigate further. Our Community Relations staff has broad authority to address 
problems and dedicate resources. We consistently follow up with each caller to  
discuss our response and resolution before closure. 
We proudly invest in our communities and charitable and civic groups. Antero Midstream 
donates to The Antero Foundation which has donated more than $570,000 to local 
causes and organizations in 2019.
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 23
THEANTERO FOUNDATIONANTERO FOUNDATION
The Antero Foundation was established to cultivate Antero’s rich history of charitable 
giving. It focuses on expanding community involvement and cultivating new charitable 
partnerships, while ensuring future giving aligns with Antero’s core values of protecting 
our people, communities, and the environment.  
Mission and Areas of Focus
Mission:  We strive to build thriving and healthy communities by supporting nonprofit 
organizations where Antero operates, and where our employees work and live.  
Areas of Focus: Education, Community Development, Health and Human Services, 
Environmental Causes, Arts, and Culture.
Geographic Focus: We focus our giving on communities located in West Virginia and 
Ohio. Additional geographic areas may be added from time to time, should Antero’s 
operational area diversify, and as determined by our Board of Directors. 
HISTORICAL GIVING  FUTURE Giving
Antero Historical Giving:   Approximately $500,000 annually  
$2.0 million over previous four year period
$100,000$400,000
$200,000$500,000
$300,000$600,000$700,000
2016 2017 2018 2019$570,000 $630,000
$390,000$450,000Arts and Culture  
$410,000Environmental Causes  
$160,000
Health and Human Services  
$530,000Education  
$500,000Community Development  
$440,000
THEANTERO FOUNDATION
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 24
ENVIRONMENT
Stewardship of the environment is a fundamental value in our overall business 
strategy. We strive to:
  Proactively manage environmental risks and hazards, and achieve or exceed 
regulatory compliance to protect and respect the communities and resources 
where we operate
 Minimize our impacts on the environment and natural resources 
  Improve overall performance by utilizing a plan-do-check-act model, core to our 
environmental management system 
  Actively work with the regulatory community, industry trade associations, and the 
localities where we operate, to achieve beneficial environmental outcomes 
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 25
Antero has implemented an Environmental Management System (EMS), influenced by 
the ISO 14001:2015 standard, establishes requirements for managing environmental 
risks and compliance requirements. Antero’s management fully supports the EMS, which 
applies to all employees and contractors working for, or on behalf of, Antero. The EMS is 
a constantly evolving tool for Antero.
As part of the plan-do-check-act process, we focused our improvements to the EMS 
on measuring overall environmental performance and providing weekly updates to 
management on environmental and regulatory targets, established by Antero’s  
senior management. Environmental and regulatory metrics and targets including 
greenhouse gas metrics are part of our EMS. 
The EMS has 11 elements, which are: 
1. Environmental Leadership, Compliance, and Commitment  
2. Organization, Roles, and Responsibilities 
3. Risk and Hazard Assessment/Risk Registers 
4. Incident Reporting and Investigation  
5. Training and Competency  
6. Document Management 
7. Emergency Preparedness and Planning 
8. Communication Planning  
9. Environmental Compliance Program  
10. Standard Operating Procedures and Guidance  
11. Performance Measurement and Evaluation 
Employees can view and access the Environmental Management System via the 
company’s intranet. 
ENVIRONMENTENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 26
Risk and Hazard Assessment/Risk Registers
Our risk and hazard assessment programs document potential environmental and 
regulatory risks for each phase of operation in the our risk register. Antero’s proprietary 
risk matrix quantifies potential risks and impacts to our employees, contractors, assets, 
and communities. Antero uses the risk matrix during a risk assessment to define the level 
of risk by considering the probability against the severity of the consequence. The risk 
matrix is a simple mechanism to increase the visibility of risks and assist management 
decision-making. 
Incident Reporting System
Environmental and near miss incidents are reported and tracked in our incident 
reporting system per the requirements of the incident reporting system detailed under 
the Health & Safety section. 
We identify factors that contribute to the incident and develop a comprehensive plan  
with corrective and preventive actions to prevent reoccurrence.  
We track regulatory agency interactions in our incident management system. We 
define regulatory agency interactions as interactions with a regulatory agency that 
are proactive in nature, or have resulted in a request for corrective action. Tracking 
and trending this information allows us to evaluate the issue and apply corrective and 
preventive actions across our operations. This information is presented to the CSC 
quarterly as part of our overall HSSE performance metrics. 
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 27
Training
Antero conducts extensive training on relevant environmental and regulatory subjects. 
Our subject matter experts receive and conduct training in their area of expertise. 
We provide training across operations and other ancillary service teams to provide 
an understanding of what is required and how to assure compliance. The HSSE team 
conducts training and provides regular updates to its contractors and employees at 
tailgate, weekly, monthly, and annual meetings. In 2019, the Environmental team held a 
field workshop for its contractors to review requirements, best practices, and evaluate 
performance towards our environmental goals. 
Emergency Preparedness and Planning
Our HSSE teams work collaboratively on emergency preparedness and planning and 
utilize the same processes and procedures identified under the Health & Safety section. 
Environmental team members are often first to respond to spills and releases. We 
conduct and participate in emergency response scenario drills with regulatory agencies, 
local EMAs, and other operators. Antero has placed spill equipment throughout its 
operational area to allow for a swift response and environmental impact mitigation. 
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 28
Contractor Compliance
Antero’s Contractor Compliance Program strives to verify work performed at Antero 
sites meet Antero HSSE minimum expectations. Antero collaborates with a leading third-
party data management service to collect and evaluate environmental and regulatory 
compliance information from our contractors. We apply our unique risk profile and 
grading specifications to the data to review contractor performance against Antero’s 
expectations.
Per master agreements, Antero requires that each contractor and service provider 
are fully compliant with their own environmental risk, hazard mitigation, and incident 
management programs, and have policies in place to ensure their compliance with 
relevant environmental laws prior to performing work for Antero.
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 29
Antero is focused on managing and reducing its greenhouse gas and air pollutant 
emissions. We participate in voluntary emission reduction programs, report our 
emissions of greenhouse gases (GHGs), including methane, criteria and hazardous air 
pollutants, and continuously evaluate the feasibility of emission control and mitigation 
technologies to be implemented across our operations.
In 2019, we reported our GHG and methane emissions to our management and board  
of directors. The commitment and oversight of our executives drive our actions to 
reduce and mitigate emissions and climate-related risks. We reported a climate-related 
risk discussion in our Form 10-K.
We set a goal of reducing 100% of our pigging emissions by 2025. These goals will be 
achieved through the implementation of operational improvements, work practices, 
technologies, and through the purchase of carbon credits. In 2020, we plan to integrate 
climate-related risks into our existing risk management system and align our disclosures 
with the Task Force for Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) guidelines and the 
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) framework. EMISSIONS
ENVIRONMENT 
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 30
Despite increases in gas throughput, our GHG emissions intensity and methane leak loss 
rate remains steady from 2016 to 2019. As discussed in more detail under the Leaders 
in Emission Reduction section, Antero’s leak loss rate is impressive when compared 
to industry peers. We attribute these results to our commitment to GHG emission 
reduction practices.
1.  The GHG Emissions Intensity ratio is calculated by dividing the metric tons of CO2e reported to the EPA under Subpart W by  
MMscf gas sold. 
2.  The methane leak/loss rate is calculated by dividing methane emitted by the methane transferred. The methane leak loss rate 
represented in this report conforms with the ONE Future calculation protocol.
3. GHG Emissions Intensity does not include emissions from the Antero Clearwater Facility. GHG & AIR POLLUTANT EMISSIONS
ENVIRONMENT / EMISSIONS
Table 1: GHG Emissions IntensitY
2016 2017 2018 2019
GHG Emissions Intensity metric tons CO2e/MMscf sold1,3
1.65 1.81 1.57 1.81
Methane Leak Loss Rate2,3 
0.018 % 0.016 % 0.015 % 0.017 %
Gas Sold MMscf
260,346.50 424,469.40 615,425.70 766,869.80
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 31
Scope 1 emissions are a result of our gathering and transporting of natural gas. 
They are direct emissions that occur at our compressor station facilities. Antero 
reports under the EPA’s Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program (GHGRP). As part of 
the requirement, Antero discloses Scope 1 direct GHG emissions covered under 
the GHGRP at a basin-wide level (Appalachian Basin and Appalachian Basin Eastern 
Overthrust) to EPA. Antero reports methane emissions as part of total organic 
compounds released to the Ohio EPA. We calculate emissions using a combination 
of actual measurements, engineering calculations, and emission factors as required 
by each reporting program. The following table presents our total GHG Scope 1 
emissions as CO2e, the applicable GHGs covered under the Kyoto Protocol, along with 
other metrics requested in SASB EM-MD-110a.1. 
Table 2: GHG Scope 1 (SASB EM-MD-110A.1)
2016 2017 2018 2019
Total GHG Scope 1 Emissions1,2,3,4 metric tons CO2e 428,835 766,750 1,031,110 1,462,632
Total Carbon Dioxide (CO2) Emissions metric tons CO2e 408,829 738,108 994,964 1,412,304
Total Methane (CH4) Emissions metric tons CO2e 19,772 28,234 35,602 49,548
Total Nitrous Oxide (N2O) Emissions metric tons CO2e 233.6 408.4 544.5 780.2
% Gross Scope 1 Emissions from Methane 4.6 3.7 3.5 3.4
% of Emissions Covered under Emission Limiting Regulation 3.7 3.0 6.9 5.6
1. IPCC 4AR GWP.
2.  Total GHG Scope 1 emissions are based on emissions reported to the EPA under 40 CFR Part 98 Subpart W. 
3. Antero does not emit hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons, sulfur hexafluoride, and nitrogen trifluoride. 
4. GHG Scope 1 emissions include those that are a result of operating the Antero Clearwater Facility in 2018 and 2019. 
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 32
The trend in increased GHG Scope 1 emissions is a direct result of our infrastructure 
growth, which involves the addition of more compressor stations and compressor engines. 
Antero Midstream’s 2019 Scope 1 emissions can be broken down into five categories: 
combustion, process emissions, vented emissions, fugitive emissions, and flared 
hydrocarbons. Figure 7 shows the breakdown of emissions in each category. 
The main source of Scope 1 emissions is from the combustion of fuel to drive our 
compressor engines. 
Antero’s short-term strategy to manage Scope 1 emissions includes: 
  Our GHG/methane reduction team meets quarterly to discuss emission  
reduction opportunities 
  Subject matter experts stay abreast of leading technologies and research  
from the science community
Flaring  
264 metric tons  
0.02%
Fugitives  
1,227 metric tons  
0.08%Venting    
3,884 metric tons  
0.28%
Combustion   
1,376,635 metric tons  
94.12%Process  
80,622 metric tons  
5.51%Figure 7: 2019 Scope 1 Emissions (CO2e)
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 33
  Participation in voluntary emission reduction programs
 Monitoring of state and federal regulations
We have explored and implemented multiple emission reduction initiatives due to 
the efforts outlined above. We provide a list detailing the results under the Emission 
Mitigation Efforts  section. (SASB-EM-MD-110a.2.)
Scope 2 emissions are a result of the electricity usage required to power Antero’s 
operations. A third party entity, typically a utility, generates these emissions at their 
facility. A summary of our Scope 2 emissions for the previous three years is in the  
following table. 
Scope 3 emissions are a result of consumer use of our product, as well as other indirect 
emissions that occur as part of our supply chain. Antero is currently evaluating its 
Scope 3 emissions to provide in future reports. 
Table 3: GHG Scope 2 Emissions
2017 2018 2019
Total GHG Scope 2 Emissions metric tons CO2e1,217,911 31,649 32,935
1. World Resources Institute GHG Protocol: Scope 2 Guidance.
2. eGRID2018 average emission factors. 
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 34
Antero operations emit criteria and hazardous air pollutants (HAPs). Table 4  
summarizes these emissions. We calculate our emissions using engineering calculations, 
emission tests, process simulations, and EPA AP-42 emission factors.
 Table 4: Air Quality Emissions (SASB EM-MD-120a.1)
2019
NO x Emissions metric tons 687
SOx Emissions metric tons 5
VOC Emissions metric tons 607
PM10 Emissions metric tons 143
HAP Emissions metric tons 63
Antero’s strategies to reduce VOC emissions are the same as those to reduce methane 
emissions because we are controlling both pollutants in the same manner. Our reduction  
efforts for the remaining criteria and hazardous air pollutants include identifying 
operational efficiencies and taking emission sources out of service as soon as they are  
no longer needed. 
Zero percentage of our air emissions are in, or near areas of dense population because 
our operations are located in rural areas of West Virginia and Ohio. For this analysis, 
Antero compared the counties in which we operate with counties defined as part of a 
metropolitan statistical area, as defined by the Office of Management and Budget, and 
there is no overlap (at the time of that analysis).
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 35
In 2018, Antero Midstream became a member of ONE Future. 
ONE Future is an industry collective focused on voluntarily 
reducing methane emissions across the natural gas supply 
chain, to lower emissions to 1.0% or less of total natural gas 
production by 2025. ONE Future’s target is a science-based 
methane emission intensity target. The target seeks to ensure 
that fuel switching to natural gas will create GHG reduction benefits. Antero’s methane 
leak loss rate was at 0.017% in 2019, which is well ahead of the ONE Future cumulative 
LEADERS IN EMISSION REDUCTION
ENVIRONMENT / EMISSIONS
Antero demonstrates its commitment to methane mitigation and reducing climate 
change risks by actively participating in voluntary programs that focus on reducing 
emissions: EPA Natural Gas STAR Program and ONE Future. 
Antero joined the EPA Natural Gas STAR Program in 2017. By joining the EPA program, 
we expanded our commitment to evaluate and implement methane reduction projects. 
We transparently report voluntary reductions of methane emissions and participate in 
information sharing and technology transfer by working with our peers to keep up with 
industry trends.
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 36
1%
0.08%
0.03%0.017%Figure 8: Methane Leak Loss Rate
OF Industry Target 2025
Gathering and Boosting Sector Target2018 OF Gathering and Boosting Sector Avg.
AM 2019LEADERS IN EMISSION REDUCTION
ENVIRONMENT / EMISSIONS
industry goal of 1.0% and the gathering and boosting segment goal of 0.08% by 
2025. At 0.017%, Antero out performed above their industry peers in 2018 who had an 
average intensity of 0.03%. ONE Future releases an annual report that is available for 
public review here . 
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 37
Leak Detection and Repair: 
Our methane and air emission controls include a robust leak detection and repair 
(LDAR) program. We repair detected leaks found during periodic inspections promptly 
to minimize emissions. Antero has committed to conducting LDAR surveys at all of our 
compressor stations quarterly. In cases where the station is not subject to New Source 
Performance Standard OOOOa, this commitment exceeds federal requirements. The 
LDAR program inspections utilize a state-of-the-art Optical Gas Imaging Forward-
Looking Infrared Radar camera to identify leaks. We employ one full-time technician 
to conduct and record the results of the LDAR inspections. This technician is trained 
as a compressor station operator. This background allows him to typically repair leaks 
identified during the inspection, thereby eliminating emissions as quickly as possible. 
If the repair cannot occur during the inspection, the leak is tracked in our maintenance 
ticketing software and is repaired as soon as practicable, but no later than 30 days, 
unless there is justification for placement on our Delay of Repair list. Antero conducts 
quarterly LDAR inspections at 100% of its compressor stations. In 2019, 90 LDAR surveys 
were conducted, 95% of leaks identified were repaired during the inspection, and the 5% 
of leaks that could not be fixed immediately were repaired on average within one day.
Reduced Truck Traffic:
As discussed in more detail in the Water Management section, Antero Midstream has 
reduced truck traffic significantly over the years through an extensive freshwater delivery 
system and utilizing the Pioneer Blending Facility. In turn, the reduced truck traffic has 
eliminated 405 metric tons of CO2e emissions in 2019. That is equivalent to the amount 
of carbon sequestered by 529 acres of U.S. forests in one year, according to the EPA 
equivalency calculator. EMISSION MITIGATION EFFORTS
ENVIRONMENT / EMISSIONS
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 38
Additional GHG Mitigation Efforts:
  Air actuated pneumatic control valves are utilized at 96% of facilities. The remaining 
4% of sites have gas-operated pneumatics and are being evaluated for retrofit 
 96% of compressor engine starters are outfitted with air driven starters 
  Upgraded glycol dehydration systems to optimize recirculation rates while reducing 
flash tank separators vapors
  Hot taps and pipeline pump down techniques are utilized that lower pipeline 
pressure and capture gas volume before maintenance
  Pilot testing the use of LDAR surveys conducted by drones and aircraft at 
compressor stations and along the pipeline rights of way 
 Reviewing solutions to recover gas from pigging operations
 Injecting blowdown gas into the fuel system at new compressor stations
  Exploring the use of electric compression at future stations beyond 2022,  
where feasible 
 Reviewing thermal oxidizer efficiency 
Antero’s GHG/Methane Reduction team, comprised of company leaders across different 
functional groups, reviews, analyzes, and determines whether emerging methane 
detection and quantification technologies can be implemented, best management 
practices, and new reduction technologies applicable to midstream operations. The 
standing agenda includes a discussion and status update of previously identified 
opportunities, new and emerging mitigation opportunities to explore, an update on our 
reporting and volunteer commitments, and a discussion on climate-related risks.
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 39
We are working to make our operations more efficient while providing a cleaner source 
of energy to our customers. Antero utilizes energy sources, including electricity, natural 
gas, and diesel for its compression, treatment, and transportation operations. 
1.  2018 data has been updated from the previous report to represent better available data and utilize a more representative 
calculation methodology. ENERGY USE
ENVIRONMENT
Table 5: Energy Use
201812019
Total Energy Use (GJ) 14,744,796 20,752,267
   Non-Renewable 14,733,480 99.92 % 20,726,693 99.88 %
   Renewable 11,317 0.08% 25,574 0.12%
Total Electrical Use (kWh) 59,411,574 61,829,972
   Non-Renewable 56,268,016 94.71 % 58,566,561 94.72 %
      Coal 44.40 % 44.40 %
      Natural Gas 21.02 % 21.01 %
      Oil 0.30% 0.30%
      Other Fossil 0.70% 0.70%
      Nuclear 28.19 % 28.21 %
      Unknown or Purchased Fuel 0.10% 0.10%
   Renewable 3,143,558 5.29% 3,263,411 5.28 %
      Biomass 0.60% 0.60%
      Wind 3.64% 3.64%
      Solar 0.11% 0.10%
      Hydro 0.94% 0.94%
   Consumed Energy from the grid 1.45% 1.07%
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 40
Antero highly values streams and wetlands, rare, threatened, or endangered species, 
and cultural resources. We strive to contribute to the maintenance of healthy and diverse 
ecosystems and communities in the areas where we operate. Our natural resources and 
biodiversity policy outlines our approach and framework for assessing projects in areas 
of high ecological and cultural importance to ensure that management of biodiversity 
is integrated into our project development and operations throughout their lifecycle. 
We are committed to continuously assessing and managing our environmental risks 
to minimize impacts on the diverse ecological systems that exist where we operate, in 
accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements and through the implementation 
of one or more of the following approaches:
  Avoidance – We evaluate proposed project scopes to identify avoidance options 
by working with the surface owner(s), design, and construction teams to consider 
primary and alternative locations and scope and/or timing of project construction 
to avoid impacts to a vulnerable species and/or sensitive ecosystems. We survey 
medium to high probability areas for potential cultural sites and avoid identified sites.
  Minimization – We evaluate minimization options by working with the landowner, 
design, and construction teams to consider proposed project constraints that 
may require primary and alternative locations and scope and/or timing of project 
construction to avoid impacts to a vulnerable species and/or sensitive ecosystems  
and known cultural sites, when possible. To the extent possible, projects are 
designed to utilize existing rights-of-way and avoid biologically diverse, protected,  
or other sensitive areas. 
  Restoration – During planning and post-construction, we work with the surface 
owner(s) to conduct on-site restoration to the extent practicable, to reestablish an 
ecosystem’s composition, structure, and function to maintain a healthy state.NATURAL RESOURCES & BIODIVERSITY
ENVIRONMENT
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 41
  Mitigation – We develop and achieve measurable conservation outcomes that 
can mitigate unavoidable impacts after appropriate avoidance, minimization, and 
restoration measures have been applied.
In the planning, development, and construction process, Antero takes measures to:
  Understand and comply with laws and regulations intended to protect and preserve 
the ecosystems in which we operate, including the requirements to conduct 
baseline studies and impact assessments
  Train employees on the importance of environmental protection and provide 
information on the species or habitat sensitivities on the location or project which 
they are working
  Engage with stakeholders on biodiversity issues pertaining to our proposed, new, 
and ongoing operations
  Implement industry best practices and lessons learned from previous projects
In the pipeline planning process, the pipeline route selection process is iterative and 
typically starts with a wide corridor of interest between two fixed start and end points 
and then narrows down to a more defined route at each design stage as more data is 
acquired, to a final ‘right of way’. Antero’s Midstream project team, who reviews and 
considers public safety, pipeline integrity, environmental impact, social, economic, 
technical environmental grounds, constructability, land ownership, access, regulatory 
requirements, and cost, conduct this process. The shortest route might not be the most 
suitable, and physical obstacles, environmental constraints and other factors may dictate 
routing to minimize the need or potential impacts of the line.
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 42
Antero evaluates the impacts of projects in critical habitats or other areas with 
recognized high biodiversity value and High Conservation Value areas. Managing 
the environmental footprint of our pipelines, gas gathering facilities, water handling, 
and treatment assets is a constant focus of our efforts to be an industry leader and 
community partner in protecting our natural environment.
We perform an extensive desktop analysis in the early planning stages utilizing the 
project’s proposed limits of disturbance (LOD). We developed a checklist to document 
the results of our project research. We utilize tools, regulations, and guidance provided 
by regulatory agencies such as the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS), West Virginia and Ohio State 
Historic Preservation Office (SHPO), Ohio Environmental Protection Agency, WV Division 
of Natural Resources (WV DNR), Ohio Department of Natural Resources (ODNR), WV 
Department of Environmental Protection, WV DNR Office of Land and Streams, and 
county floodplain ordinances. Antero evaluates an expanded area of interest (AOI) 
beyond the proposed limits of disturbance of a project (e.g., 150 feet in both directions 
from the outer limits of disturbance on linear projects and 150 feet from the outer limits 
of disturbance of non-linear projects). Through this analysis, we consider and evaluate 
the following:
  Known aquatic features and hydric soils, utilizing the USFWS National Wetland 
Inventory (NWI) and Natural Resources Conservation Service Web Soil Survey, 
occurring within an AOI
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 43
  Threatened, endangered or otherwise protected species and their designated 
critical habitat as defined in our Protected Species Matrix utilizing the USFWS 
Information for Planning and Consultation online tool (IPaC) and our environmental 
viewer, an internal environmental mapping tool, displaying state protected aquatic 
species habitat locations occurring within an expanded AOI
  Known cultural resource finds and other medium and high probability sites for 
historic properties by utilizing historical aerial photographs, U.S. Geological Survey 
(USGS) maps, our internal GIS viewer (which shows landscape types more likely to 
have a high probability of cultural finds), and state SHPO viewers
  Federal Emergency Management Agency data to determine if the project will be 
located in a floodplain
  How earthmoving and grading activity may affect stormwater runoff, in order to 
develop erosion and sediment control plans to protect aquatic resources 
  Whether the project LOD occurs in a Total Maximum Daily  
Load (TMDL) watershed
 State-protected waters
  Sensitive areas or sites of concern identified during this stage of project planning
Following the desktop analysis and upon receipt of landowner permission, we 
conduct a field assessment to investigate and evaluate the aforementioned resources 
further. During this subsequent investigation, a Qualified Wetland Professional (and, if 
applicable, a protected species and habitat specialist and cultural resources specialist) 
conducts a field assessment of the proposed project area. We maintain historical project 
data in our internal environmental viewer and mapping system, which allows us to 
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 44
better plan for future project construction in our operational areas. When impacts are 
unavoidable, we consult with the appropriate state and federal agencies on a permitting 
strategy that incorporates minimization, restoration, and offsetting of potential impacts.
Only 0.8% of the land owned, leased, and/or operated by Antero Midstream is within 
areas of protected conservation status of endangered species habitat. We evaluated a 
number of data sets for this determination, including available mapping of protected 
mussels, aquatic buffers, NWI, IPaC analysis and terrestrial habitat preservation and 
restoration from the WV Watershed Resources Registry. (SASB EM-MD-160.a.2)
In addition to these efforts to protect threatened and endangered species, Antero 
implements best management practices in all of our construction and development 
activities. For example, when we cut trees for projects, they are stacked strategically 
to enhance wildlife habitat. During the initial assessment and before construction, all 
aquatic features are marked with flagging. We stabilize and reseed the right-of-ways with 
seed mixes that provide habitat and food sources for wildlife. 
Antero understands the importance of cultural resources. If there is a federal nexus 
and we determine that sites exist, or have the potential to exist within our project area, 
a third party, cultural expert performs a field survey. We then work with SHPO to first 
avoid, and then minimize and offset impacts on cultural resources.
Often, Antero goes beyond what is required by performing voluntary due diligence 
on projects. At several sites, we have documented historic properties through local 
interviews, architectural drawings, and written accounts. Artifacts found during Antero 
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 45
cultural surveys are documented and then returned to the landowners where they were 
found. If the owner does not want to retain the artifacts, Antero curates and donates 
them to West Virginia’s Grave Creek Mound Archeological Complex or the Ohio History 
Connection for permanent curation.
Antero created an inadvertent discovery plan that details what to do if cultural resources 
are found during construction. The plan includes halting all work immediately, bringing 
in a cultural expert to determine if the resources are historical, and consulting SHPO 
guidance, if needed.
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 46
Our relationship with Antero Resources allows us to provide the necessary fresh and 
recycled water for use in drilling and completion operations, as well as services to 
recycle and reuse, or dispose of produced water resulting from those operations. 
Antero Midstream has built an extensive network of 351 miles of freshwater pipelines 
and 37 impoundments, delivering 197 thousand barrels of freshwater per day to Antero 
Resources. Our infrastructure reduces the number of water trucks traversing local roads 
in and around the communities where Antero operates. Additionally, during seasonal 
dry periods, Antero’s freshwater impoundments provide an alternative source of 
freshwater to alleviate stress on local streams and reservoirs. 
Antero Midstream treated and blended water at a variety of locations in 2019 to provide 
recycled produced water and flowback for use by Antero Resources in its drilling 
and completions operations. Antero Midstream added the Pioneer Water Facility, a 
water blending and recycling facility, and surface water lines to its water-recycling 
infrastructure. Another benefit of the implementation of blending operations within 
our active operating area is the reduction in the amount of water sent to injection for 
disposal in 2019.
Antero Midstream uses a limited amount of freshwater, primarily for construction 
activities and dust suppression on access roads. WATER MANAGEMENT
ENVIRONMENT / WATER RESOURCES & MANAGEMENT
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 47
Antero has been testing water sources near our operations for over a decade. The 
protection of water quality within all areas of Antero operations is of the utmost 
importance. Antero assesses groundwater quality before initiating midstream 
construction activities. We sample domestic water wells, springs, ponds, or streams 
within 150 feet from the centerline of buried waterlines and gas pipelines, a 300-foot 
radius of the waterline and gas pipeline bores, a 1,000-foot radius of compressor 
stations, and a 2,000-foot radius of centralized impoundments and pits in both West 
Virginia and Ohio, none of which is required. Water samples are collected by third-party 
environmental consultants and analyzed at state-certified laboratories. Water samples 
are analyzed for a list of parameters that goes above and beyond the parameters 
required by regulation in both WV and OH for water well sampling adjacent to oil and 
gas well pads. Sample results are shared with the landowners, and records are archived 
and maintained electronically by Antero. 
Our Antero community relations hotline handles all complaints and concerns regarding 
water quality. Antero’s practice is to respond to all water concerns by phone within  
24 hours. If Antero and the landowner agree that additional testing is necessary, Antero 
will conduct additional sampling of the water supply using a third-party environmental 
consultant and a state-certified laboratory. WATER QUALITY
ENVIRONMENT / WATER RESOURCES & MANAGEMENT
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 48
In 2019, Antero Resources implemented operational changes to increase the reuse  
of produced water downhole in completion activities. Antero Midstream provided 
localized mobile treatment facilities to treat and recycle produced water from Antero 
operations. The treated water is blended with freshwater and transported through trucks 
or pipeline infrastructure directly to an Antero Resources’ well pad for downhole use in 
completion operations. 
Antero Midstream also operates a limited number of centralized produced water pits 
that were designed and built to robust regulatory standards including a dual liner 
system with a leak detection layer, a network of groundwater monitoring wells, which  
are sampled quarterly for a list of parameters beyond what is required by regulations.  
A concrete containment with offload manifold to facilitate truck offloading reduces  
the risk of spills and releases. Centralized produced water pits have fencing and bird 
netting installed as a best management practice to protect migratory birds. These 
facilities provide for additional storage of produced water that cannot be immediately  
reused downhole.
Volumes reported in the Produced Water Management section therein refer only to 
produced water generated by Antero Midstream. Other facilities that generate or 
receive liquids (ex. compressor stations) utilize closed top tanks and employ secondary 
containment and perimeter berms to manage liquids onsite and reduce potential PRODUCED WATER MANAGEMENT
ENVIRONMENT / WASTE MANAGEMENT & RECYCLING
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 49
impacts on the environment and wildlife. A summary of produced water generated by 
Midstream Operations and the various methods of disposition is presented below. It 
is essential to note the increasing trend in reused water volumes and a decrease in the 
volume of water sent to injection since 2017.
Antero Midstream’s produced water disposition is presented in Table 6. 
Table 6: Antero Midstream PRODUCED WATER (thousand barrels) 
West Virginia 249 356 143.6
 Recycled 2.9 1% 17 5% 0.3 0.2%
 Reused * * * * 18.1 12.6%
 Offsite Disposal 0.8 0% 1 0% 0.3 0.2%
 UIC 246 99% 338 95% 124.8 86.9%
Ohio 19 44 7.8
 Recycled 0.5 3% 0 0% 0 -
 Reused * * * * 0 -
 Offsite Disposal 0 0% 0.1 0% 0 -
 Injection 18.5 97% 44 100% 7.8 100%
 Antero considers produced water treated either at the centralized Antero Clearwater Facility or at local blending 
treatment facilities as “Recycled” water.  
Water taken directly to a well pad for use downhole, such as stormwater or water accumulated in secondary containment, 
is included under the “Reuse” category.2017 2018 2019
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 50
Antero Midstream began tracking, recycling and reusing its own produced water 
in 2019. This includes water generated at compressor stations, within secondary 
containments around tanks, etc. This resulted in a reduction in over 100,000 miles of 
truck traffic on local roads, and reduced CO2e emissions by 405.17 metric tons in 2019. 
We are on track to recycle upwards of 99% of our produced water in 2020 and beyond. 
Figure 10 shows the reduction in truck trips needed to dispose of Antero Midstream 
generated produced water due to its increased produced water recycling and  
reuse measures.
Figure 9: Reduction in Truck Trips Due to Increased Produced Water Recycling and Reuse
Trips Reduced % of Total Produced Water Recycled2019 Q1 2019 Q3 2019 Q2 2019 Q40%30%60%
40090%
1,000
10%40%
070%
600100% 1,200
20%50%
20080%
800
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 51
In the event of an incident, our spill response program includes a vast network of on-call 
spill response contractors who promptly remediate any impacted areas.
Our program includes:
  Implementing SPCC plans in accordance with federal regulations to help prevent 
and minimize the impacts of spills
  Utilizing secondary and tertiary containment systems such as:
  Polyethylene liners for water blending and recycling activities
  Lined secondary containments for storage tanks and equipment
  Double-walled tanks 
  Catchments at load out areas 
  Fluid recovery systems for pigging operations 
  Skid-mounted compressors with skids capable of catching potential spills
 Strategically placing Antero spill response trailers for large scale incident response
  Creating Emergency Response Plans to streamline interactions with first responders 
and emergency services during large scale incidences
  Providing training to pertinent personnel on regulatory and internal  
environmental programs
 Setting goals and creating initiatives to reduce environmental incident rates
  Using web-based programs to track environmental incidents and generate metrics 
which can be utilized for continuous improvementSPILL PREVENTION, MANAGEMENT & PERFORMANCE
ENVIRONMENT / WATER RESOURCES & MANAGEMENT
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 52
When spills occur, Antero responds by determining the source and type of the spill and 
utilizes the following corrective actions:
  Safely isolating and controlling the source of the spill 
  Containing spilled material to prevent migration
  Initiating remediation activities such as removal or treatment of  
contaminated material
  Analytical testing of soil/water, when necessary, to verify completion  
of spill remediation
  Reporting spills to agencies in accordance with local, state, and federal regulations
  Disposal of contaminated materials in accordance with local, state,  
and federal regulations
  Internal documentation of incidents in web-based programs for reporting  
and metric trending
Antero Midstream utilizes the same incident management system as Antero Resources to 
report, track, investigate, and mitigate environmental releases and other incidents. Spills 
are tracked and ranked according to the actual and potential risk to the environment, 
and based on severity, corrective actions, and lessons learned are developed and 
communicated to stakeholders.
Antero defines reportable spills as any spill, release, or discharge to the environment that 
must be reported to a state or federal agency per the regulations. Antero’s spill rate is 
defined as the volume of reportable spills over the total barrels of fluid handled. Antero 
Midstream did not have any spills in the Arctic or in unusually sensitive areas.
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 53
Table 7: Antero Midstream Reportable Spills (SASB EM-MD-160.A.4)
2017 2018 2019
Total Spills 10 18 4
 Produced Water 4 13 1
 Hydrocarbons 3 3 1
 Other 3 2 2
Volume of Reportable Spills (barrels) 74.8 396.5 2.3
Produced Water 72.4 272.6 0.2
Hydrocarbons 0.3 4.6 0.4
Other 2.1 119.2 1.7
Total Barrels Handled Total Number of Spills Total Volume of Spills 
(barrels)Spill Rate
195,992,597
165,464,330
209,405,8742019
2018
20174
18
102.3
396.5
74.80.00000001%
0.00024000%
0.00000036%
1. This table has been updated from previous reports to utilize a more representative calculation methodology.Table 8: Antero Midstream Reportable Spills1 (SASB EM-MD-160.A.4)
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 54
Special permits, mandates, and company responsibilities related to waste are developed 
at the corporate level. Waste program details, such as standard operating procedures, 
regulatory compliance, safe work practices, and vendor (e.g., supplier and contractors) 
audits, are developed at the field level and approved at the corporate level to guarantee 
quality and consistency. The inclusion of field level operational staff promotes a well-
balanced platform to monitor and regulate waste on a daily basis.
The typical waste hierarchy involves four steps: Identification & Source Reduction, 
Recycle/Reuse, Treatment, and Disposal. Operations takes measures to eliminate, 
minimize, or recycle waste streams with oversight provided by Antero’s HSSE 
department. Data is collected and reported at the corporate level.
Waste generated from Antero’s operations is characterized, managed and disposed 
of in accordance with regulatory requirements. Waste streams are primarily treated, 
recycled, or disposed of within the Appalachian Basin: West Virginia, Ohio, and 
Pennsylvania. Each state’s regulatory requirements dictate the organization and 
direction of the disposal process. The only instance when a waste is disposed of outside WASTE
ENVIRONMENT / WASTE MANAGEMENT & RECYCLING
Identification &  
Source ReductionRecycle/Reuse Treatment DisposalThe waste hierarchy involves four steps:
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 55
of these three states has been for NORM/TENORM waste that exceeds the  
acceptance criteria for oil and gas waste as defined by state-specific regulations.  
These NORM/TENORM wastes are disposed of at approved facilities outside of  
the Appalachian region. 
Before onboarding and regardless of the type of waste, disposal facilities are subject 
to a pre-approval process where subject matter experts perform an audit of regulatory 
records. Antero representatives conduct routine site visits and audits of approved 
disposal facilities. We use the results of the audit to extend or revoke the approval 
status for a disposal facility.
Antero tracks waste from cradle to grave, regardless of operational origin and 
characterization. Non-hazardous waste manifests are generated at the point of origin 
and signed by Antero representatives. Manifests identify the type and quantity of 
waste, transportation company, final disposal facility, and require signatures to identify 
the responsible parties. A “Bill of Lading” is used to track the same information as 
the non-hazardous waste manifest. Antero’s permanent facilities at well locations are 
equipped with electronic metering devices that send live data from the well sites to 
confirm produced water volumes leaving the site. The non-hazardous waste manifests 
and Bills of Lading are returned to Antero when the disposal facility submits its 
invoices, which are filed in an Antero database.
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 56
Landfill volume includes salt placed in the Antero Landfill Facility. 
Antero Midstream manages chemical waste on a case-by-case basis. Table 9: Antero Midstream Waste
Hazardous Waste (tons) 0 0%
Non-Hazardous Waste (tons) 319,561 100%
 Landfilled 316,673 99.09%
 Incinerated 0 0%
 Injected 2,773 0.86%
 Recycled/Reused 115 0.04%
Recycled Waste Oil (bbls) 3,253.172019
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 57
In 2019, Antero Midstream began an oil-testing program to evaluate the efficiency of the 
engines at our compressor stations. Through this program, we were able to extend the 
life of the engine oil by double. The program has resulted in a reduction in the amount 
of waste oil that needs to be recycled and the amount of filters requiring disposal. 
Approximately 1,095 barrels of oil are no longer required, and 1,180 filters are not 
landfilled. Antero’s Water Department implemented a similar program that eliminated 
the need to landfill 900 oil filters, 900 water separator filters, and 900 fuel filters. This 
also resulted in a reduction of 246 barrels of oil used. 
Currently, Antero recycles waste oil that includes engine oil and condensate. RECYCLING
ENVIRONMENT / WASTE MANAGEMENT & RECYCLING
What Antero Recycles:
Plastic water pipelines Batteries both from 
operations and office use
Office paper and general trashWaste oil
E-waste  
(Computers, cell phones, electronics)
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 58
HEALTH & SAFETY
We sponsor emergency preparedness programs, conduct regular audits to assess 
our performance, and celebrate our successes through the annual contractor HSSE 
conference, where we acknowledge employees and contractors alike who have 
exhibited strong HSSE leadership during the course of the year. These efforts combine 
to create a culture of HSSE excellence throughout the company and positively influence 
our contractor community. 
Through our HSSE challenge coin program, Antero leaders acknowledge individuals or 
groups that have demonstrated exceptional operation safety service, either in an office 
or field environment. There are three levels of recognition in the program which include 
peer to peer, supervisory, and executive level recognition.
Antero meets periodically with contractors to review HSSE performance, collaboratively 
solve problems, address public concerns, provide an open forum, and most 
importantly, recognize our contractor’s dedication and commitment to upholding 
Antero HSSE ideals.
Antero’s HSSE representatives are available on site 24/7 during every  
significant operation. 
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 59
SAFETY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
The Antero Midstream Safety Management System (SMS) is utilized by all employees 
and contractors working for, or on behalf of, Antero Midstream entities. The managerial 
principles outlined in the Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series 45001 
heavily influenced our SMS. The objective of the SMS is to establish requirements for 
managing health and safety risks. 
The SMS is comprised of 13 elements, which are: 
1. Safety Leadership, Compliance, and Commitment  
2. Organization, Roles, and Responsibilities 
3. Risk and Hazard Assessment/Risk Registers 
4. Incident Reporting and Investigation  
5. Training and Competency  
6. Safety Manual and Safe Work Practices/Guides 
7. Security and Sustainability (Travel, Personal Safety) 
8. Emergency Preparedness and Planning 
9. Safety Communications  
10. Occupational Health and Wellness 
11. Contractor Safety Management 
12. Business Continuity and Resiliency 
13. Performance Measurement and Evaluation 
Antero’s employees can view and access the Safety Management System on the 
company’s intranet.
HEALTH & SAFETY
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 60
RISK ASSESSMENT & HAZARD RECOGNITION
Risk assessments, hazard recognition programs, and risk registers are critical 
components of the Antero SMS. Antero utilizes a proprietary risk matrix during a risk 
assessment to define the level of risk by considering the probability against the severity 
of the consequence for an incident or risk. The risk matrix is a simple mechanism to 
increase the visibility of risks and assist management decision-making. 
A Job Safety Analysis (JSA) must be completed and documented prior to the start of 
work on an Antero location. Antero expects each worker involved in a task, whether 
an employee or a contractor, be fully briefed on any related hazards and acknowledge 
them by signing the JSA. 
At the core of Antero’s risk assessment and hazard recognition program is Stop Work 
Authority (SWA). SWA establishes the responsibility and authority of every worker on 
an Antero location, to stop work when an unsafe act or condition is discovered.
 
HEALTH & SAFETY
STOP
CORRECT RESUME FOLLOW-UPNOTIFY INVESTIGATESWA Steps
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 61
Antero expects mitigation of any identified risk or hazard to a level as low as 
reasonably practical before beginning or resuming work. Antero maintains a library of 
safe work practices to guide our contractors and service providers on how to mitigate 
any identified unsafe act or condition. These documents evolve as laws and regulatory 
requirements change and are updated when necessary. 
In 2019, Antero developed and implemented the Take 5 Program, which supports 
contractors and operations while driving improvement in areas of safety performance 
and responsibility. The Take 5 Program demonstrates Antero’s support for taking five 
minutes on any Antero owned, operated, or leased worksite to verify that all hazards 
and risks associated with the job task or activity are mitigated and controlled.
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 62
INCIDENT REPORTING SYSTEM
Antero’s incident reporting system facilitates data collection, investigations, and 
information tracking on incidents that occur on our sites. We identify factors contributing 
to the incident and develop a comprehensive plan to help prevent reoccurrence. We use 
incidents as learning opportunities to create safety alerts, bulletins, and reminders for 
distribution to our contractors.
All incidents are categorized using Antero’s HSSE Risk Matrix and are investigated to 
determine the root cause and contributing factors so we can take action to reduce and, 
where possible, eliminate factors that led to the incident or near-miss. The HSSE and 
Operations teams review incidents for systemic trends (frequency, location, phase of 
operation, cause) and implement corrective and preventive actions to avoid reoccurrence. 
We use a RACI (responsible, accountable, consulted, informed) process to assign and 
track completion of corrective actions. We create HSSE alerts to communicate the 
incident and findings to other operational groups to improve awareness, and when 
appropriate, to other industry parties, regulatory agencies, and first responders.
We use the same process for near-miss incidents involving service providers and 
contractors, with the exception that the contractor completes the investigation, and 
identifies the root cause(s) and subsequent corrective actions. Antero then verifies 
completion of corrective actions. We define a ‘near miss’ as an unplanned event that 
did not result in injury, illness, or damage, inclusive of spills, but under slightly different 
circumstances, would have had the potential to do so. Near miss incidents are reported 
to the Antero operations or HSSE teams and are tracked in our incident and behavior-
based safety management system, and are reported in our performance metrics.
HEALTH & SAFETY
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 63
HSSE, SOCIAL & GOVERNANCE TRAINING
We influence safety behaviors by developing our employees’ knowledge, skills,  
and awareness of safety-related issues, leading to improved safety performance.  
Our employee safety-training matrix specifies the required training for every employee 
job description (office and field) within the company. Safety training starts at the 
beginning, continues throughout an employee’s career, and includes refresher training 
at appropriate intervals. 
Antero’s training process describes how we:
IDENTIFY  
TRAINING  
NEEDSDESIGN  
TRAININGPRODUCE  
AND CONTROL  
MATERIALSSELECT  
OR QUALIFY  
COMPETENT  
TRAINERS
SCHEDULE  
TRAININGDELIVER 
AND ASSESS 
EFFECTIVENESS 
OF TRAINING MAINTAIN  
RECORDSMONITOR  
AND REVIEW  
TRAINING
HEALTH & SAFETY
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 64
Training is assigned to each employee through the learning management system and all 
completed training is tracked within their training transcript.
Antero also provides an on-site HSSE orientation which is required for all employees and 
contractors who plan to visit an Antero field location. The on-site orientation describes 
Antero’s expectations upon arrival at an Antero location. It covers topics such as general 
PPE requirements, training requirements, Short-Service Employees, driving on-site, 
JSAs, and Stop Work Authority. Employees may not perform certain tasks without 
required safety training. 
Antero Resources and Antero Midstream share employees and resources. Data is based on 547 combined employees as of 
December 31, 2019.Table 10: Antero Midstream All Employee Training 
2018 2019
HSSE Training Hours 4,288 6,037
   HSSE Training Hours per Employee 6.9 10.5
Social & Governance Training Hours 2,934 1,824
   Social & Governance Training Hours per Employee 4.7 3.3
Total Training Hours 7, 221 7, 556
   Training Hours per Employee 11.6 13.8
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 65
EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS & PLANNING
Our Crisis and Field Incident Management Teams (IMT), based on the U.S. Department 
of Homeland Security’s National Incident Management System (NIMS), incorporates 
existing best practices into a comprehensive national approach to domestic incident 
management, and is applicable at all jurisdictional levels and across all functional 
disciplines. This system applies across all phases of incident management: prevention, 
mitigation, preparedness, response, recovery, and resumption. 
Antero uses the Incident Command System (ICS) designed by the NIMS. Our model 
of the ICS allows for a rapid, flexible, and efficient response to incidents. The ICS is 
modular and scalable, allowing the response to (de)escalate uniformly with the incident 
without loss of command continuity. 
Antero’s IMTs are comprised of a Crisis Commander–Corporate Activities (CC), 
Incident Commander–Field Activities (IC), Command Staff, and General Staff. The 
CC and IC are responsible for the overall management of the response, including the 
coordination of Command and General Staff activities. The Command Staff includes the 
Public Information Officer, Safety Officer, Legal Officer, Liaison Officer, and Security, 
Information, and Intelligence Officer.
HEALTH & SAFETY
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 66
Antero uses a notification system to communicate with external stakeholders in the 
event of an emergency. The third-party notification system is a web-based notification 
service, offering immediate and simultaneous one, to many communications using 
wired and wireless communication devices (telephone, SMS devices, and email). The 
system provides automated and remote problem-solving capabilities to improve 
communication in large organizations – both internally and externally. It enables the 
recipient to send an immediate reply to resolve an issue and convey a new status 
condition to the appropriate person(s) or groups. 
The system sends time-sensitive notifications through multiple devices, including cell, 
one-or two-way SMS devices, and email. Messages may be sent to all communication 
devices simultaneously, or in any defined order. Other features of the system include:
 Delivery of notifications in real-time. 
 Recipients can select any number of predefined response choices. 
 Allows storage and management of user contact data. 
 Allows grouping of users to better organize contacting recipients. 
  Allows grouping of notifications and delivery of unique messages to different 
groups of recipients and devices. 
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 67
Antero’s company-wide pandemic, business continuity, and disaster recovery policies 
and procedures allow for continued communication and continuity of significant 
operations across the Appalachian region. During a pandemic, Antero expects 
employees and contractors who exhibit pandemic disease symptoms to quarantine 
themselves. In 2020, we implemented a work from home program where 85% of our 
workforce has worked remotely with minimal interruption to established business 
processes. Our executives rely upon situation progress reports to make decisions 
concerning the workforce. The Antero Crisis Team works with local officials and 
emergency management agencies to assist with procedures for activating and 
terminating the pandemic response plan. Strong execution of our pandemic plan  
has resulted in ZERO Antero work-related COVID-19 infections to date.
Preventive Measures implemented as part of our Pandemic plan to combat  
COVID-19 include:
 Use advanced disinfectant and cleaning processes 
 Temperature screening kiosks 
 Adaptive PPE program 
 Health questionnaires 
 Mobile testing protocols for field operations 
 Implemented a work from home program 
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 68
CONTRACTOR SAFETY MANAGEMENT
Antero’s Contractor Safety Management Program strives to verify work performed 
at Antero sites meet Antero HSSE minimum expectations. Antero collaborates with 
a leading third-party data management service to collect and evaluate health and 
safety information from our contractors. We apply our unique risk profile and grading 
specifications to the data to review contractor performance against Antero’s expectations.
Per master agreements, Antero expects that each contractor and service provider 
are fully compliant with their own JSA, SWA, risk, hazard mitigation, and incident 
management programs, and have policies in place to ensure their compliance with 
relevant health and safety laws prior to performing work for Antero.
Safety Improvement Plans
Antero partners with its insurance broker to provide our contractors with a complete 
SMS review. We identify contractors that can benefit from a professional, third-party 
review of their SMS. After our insurance broker conducts the assessment, they share 
identified learning opportunities with the contractor.
Contractor Program Reviews
Antero strives for continuous improvement of its Contractor Management program, 
which includes a structured review, research, evaluation, and implementation of industry 
best practices. We conduct a thorough review of our contractor’s written safety and 
training programs, and leading and lagging performance indicators. We review our 
contractor’s Department of Transportation (DOT) programs to assess compliance with 
regulatory requirements. We monitor a contractor’s on-site performance and adherence 
to the regulations and Antero’s site-specific procedures. 
HEALTH & SAFETY
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 69
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH
Antero has adopted an Occupational Health Surveillance Program, a framework for 
evaluating impacts on Antero employees’ and contractors’ health. Occupational Safety 
and Health Administration (OSHA) regulation 29 CFR. §1910.1000 contains the Z tables 
that list analytics or agents that have specific regulations that mandate baseline evaluation 
or monitored health surveillance requirements.
DOT Testing
Antero is a drug- and alcohol-free workplace. Per PHMSA requirements, we conduct 
random drug screening on 25% to 50% of employees on an annual basis, who perform 
work on pipeline and liquefied natural gas facilities. The company screens each of those 
affected employees before their first day of employment, after an accident, or upon 
reasonable suspicion. These drug-testing standards comply with PHMSA DOT 49 CFR, 
Parts 40 and 199. In addition, Antero assesses its contractor’s written drug and alcohol 
programs, including a review of the testing policy, testing techniques, and the panel of 
drugs screened. 
HEALTH & SAFETY
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 70
We track, trend, and analyze our employee and contractor health and safety 
performance. We use leading and lagging indicators to pinpoint opportunities for 
improvement to our safety program. We track fatalities, lost time incidents, total 
recordable incidents, near misses and their respective rates. 
In 2019, Antero Resources and Antero Midstream work locations experienced zero 
employee or contractor fatalities, a combined employee and contractor Lost Time 
Incident Rate (LTIR) of 0.035, a 75% reduction since 2016. The combined Antero 
employee and contractor Total Recordable Rate (TRIR) of 0.369, represents a 47% 
improvement since 2016. In 2019, Antero Midstream’s employee and contractor TRIR 
and LTIR was 0.547 and 0.055 respectively. In comparison, the 2019 ISNetworld onshore 
oil and gas benchmark averages for our industry are 0.32 LTIR and 0.95 TRIR. As part of 
our Behavior-Based Safety program, we track and evaluate near misses — those events 
that did not result in injury, illness, or damage, inclusive of spills, but under slightly 
different circumstances, would have had the potential to do so.
HEALTH & SAFETYHEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE
Loss Time Incident Rate (LTIR) Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)Figure 10: Antero Midstream Health & Safety Performance Metrics (incidents per exposure hours)
0.00.91.2
0.31.5
0.6
2016 2017 2018 20190.0550.547
TRIR is calculated as the total number of OSHA recordable injuries x 200,000 hours/# of exposure hours.
LTIR is calculated as the total number of lost time or restricted time injuries x 200,000 hours/# of exposure hours. 
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 71
SECURITY
Antero Midstream is committed to the safety and security of our organization and the 
communities in which we operate. We strive to plan, prepare, prevent, and recover from 
adverse security incidents that could injure, harm, disrupt, or affect our workers, sites, 
business or communities. Through strategic alignment with our business and operational 
teams, we can efficiently and swiftly identify and direct resources to preserve and 
safeguard our assets, both tangible and intangible.
Our efforts to initiate the Security and Safety committee through our membership in 
the West Virginia Oil and Natural Gas Association (WVONGA) is a good example of our 
leadership in this area. The Security and Safety committee is a valuable collaboration 
of industry peers sharing information and education on mitigation and emergency 
response efforts related to security and crime-related matters. 
Our field security personnel are certified Terrorism Liaison Officers (TLO) through 
the West Virginia Intelligence Fusion Center. A TLO is a public citizen of the United 
States trained to report suspicious activity observed during the course of their normal 
occupation as part of the United States’ War on Terror. Our strong relationship with 
federal, state, and local first responders strengthens our commitment to keeping our 
communities and homeland safe.
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 72
Cyber Security:
The traditional model for information technology security has changed. The 
Confidentiality, Integrity, and Availability Triad has evolved to include Safety. Antero 
leverages information technology in significant ways: traditionally, in the areas of 
Operational Technology, and the Internet of Things. As the company’s use of technology 
continues to advance, so do our cybersecurity strategies. Our commitment to 
sustainable governance and security best practices helps us navigate the ever-changing 
threat landscape.
We take a comprehensive, holistic approach to our cybersecurity efforts. This approach 
incorporates our people, processes, and technology to effectively prevent, mitigate, and 
remediate issues.
The Board of Directors approved a Protection of Personal Identifiable Information (PII) 
Policy in 2019. The purpose of the policy is to protect the PII of its employees and other 
individuals whose PII may be collected by Antero in the course of doing business. 
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 73
PIPELINE INTEGRITY
Antero Midstream established the Pipeline Integrity Program as part of its overall 
comprehensive asset management system, to meet and exceed safety, environmental 
and integrity expectations. Hazardous liquid and natural gas transmission pipelines and 
facilities are included in the scope of this program. The purpose of the integrity program 
is to protect the public, our employees and contractors, and the environment through 
adherence to a set of safety management, analytical, operating, and maintenance 
processes. 
The program framework includes five assessment categories: 
Governing  
Factors
Asset  
ManagementProgram 
ManagamentDocumentation  
& Reporting
Conservation  
ActionsProcedures  
& Training
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 74
Governing Factors
The pressure and flow of transported product passing through our midstream assets, 
along with environmental, climate, and topography in our areas of operation, are the 
factors that govern this program. The following regulating bodies that help govern the 
integrity of our regulated assets are: 
 Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA)
 Department of Transportation (DOT) 49 CFR Parts 191, 192 and 195
 West Virginia Public Service Commission (WVPSC)
 Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO)
 Occupational Safety & Health Administration (OSHA)
 National Association of Corrosion Engineers (NACE)
 American Petroleum Institute (API)
 American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME)
Program Management
Integrity management tasks are shared across many company departments including 
engineering, operations, HSSE and management. 
Procedures and Training
Antero’s procedures and training programs support our integrity programs. 
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 75
Training
 HSSE training
  Operator Qualifications (OQ) Program, tracked through Veriforce with  
81 active tasks
 Antero Midstream has 16 internal operators trained on 46 OQ tasks
  Antero Midstream has 3 internal OQ trainers qualified to test 40 of 46 different OQ 
tasks with the remaining 6 tasks being testing by 3rd party trainers 
 Contractors perform the other 35 OQ tasks for Antero Midstream
Antero Midstream Operations, Maintenance, Construction Manuals,  
and Pipeline Integrity Management Plans
 Internal Corrosion
 External Corrosion
 Maintenance & Inspection
Conservation Actions 
We use the following conservation actions to assure integrity and compliance:
 Continuous Pigging Regiment
 Chemical Injection
 Right-of-Way Surveys
 In-Line Inspection (ILI) Smart Pigging
 Corrosion Coupon Evaluation
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 76
 Cathodic Protection
 Valve Inspections
 811 Program/One Call
 Emergency Response Plan
 Public Awareness Program
 Atmospheric Corrosion Inspections
 Class Location Studies
 Engine Emissions Testing
 Ground Flare Inspections
 Re-boiler Inspections
 Pressure Safety Device Testing
 Vessel Inspections
 Oil and Triethylene Glycol Testing
 Aboveground and Underground Storage Tank Inspections
 Leak Detection and Repair (LDAR)
 Annual Safety Device Testing
Documentation & Regulated Reporting
Antero documents and reports activities in annual reports as part of the Integrity 
Management Program. 
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 77
Pipeline Integrity
Antero’s Integrity Management Program (IMP) is designed to meet the requirements of 
49 CFR 192 Subpart O and 49 CFR 195 Subpart F & H, which are required for covered 
pipelines that could affect High Consequence Areas (HCAs). The purpose of the IMP is 
to guide actions to proactively identify and manage risks associated with pipelines such 
as ruptures and leaks. Through the IMP , we are committed to the structural integrity of 
our pipeline infrastructure. We analyze information collected on the pipeline systems to 
determine what measures to take to detect and prevent leaks and unintentional releases. 
Antero operates approximately 10.37 miles of jurisdictional natural gas transmission 
pipelines and 5.73 miles of jurisdictional Type A pipelines, as defined in 49 CFR Part 192. 
We also operate approximately 19.46 miles of jurisdictional hazardous liquid pipelines, 
as defined in 49 CFR Part 195. The pipelines are located in the following areas: 
West Virginia  
 10.4 miles of Transmission Pipelines 
 2.9 miles of Gathering Type A Pipelines
Ohio  
 1.9 miles of Gathering Type A Pipelines 
 19.5 miles of Hazardous Liquids Pipelines
Antero operates approximately 415 miles of non-jurisdictional gas gathering pipelines in 
West Virginia (308 miles) and Ohio (107 miles). 
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 78
In 2019, Antero Midstream made progress on its baseline assessment plan (BAP) 
for jurisdictional and non-jurisdictional pipeline segments totaling up to 15 miles, or 
approximately 2.5%, of its total infrastructure. In 2020, Antero plans to inspect up to six 
jurisdictional pipeline segments that total 11 miles, or approximately 3.3% of its total 
infrastructure, and 42% of its jurisdictional pipeline infrastructure. 
Antero performs annual evaluations of its asset management program to assess 
effectiveness and documents the results in an annual report. We use the evaluation 
process to compare current performance against past performance and develop specific  
goals for the program. Antero employs the following best integrity management practices:1. Antero did not transport any volume of liquids in the hazardous liquids pipeline in 2019.Table 11: Volume of Natural Gas Transported by Pipeline Type (SASB EM-MD-000.A)
Pipeline Type Volume Transported (MMCF)
  Transmission Pipelines   46
  Jurisdictional and Non-jurisdictional Pipelines   965,0031
Prevent Inspect/Detect Repair
Higher Hydro-test pressures Automated SCADA system Pipeline Isolation Quick Reference 
Tool
Limit Pressures to 95% MAOP 100% x-ray of welds PHMSA required maintenance on 
non-regulated items
Pipelines designed and constructed 
to transmission pipeline standardsDynamic system health 
reporting dashboardDocument control and retention
Low pressure pipelines built to high 
pressure standardsPipeline gas and liquid 
sampling
Close Interval Surveys
Right-of-way patrols; leak 
detection, slip identification
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 79
While we believe all historical calculations presented herein were completed consistent with current industry standards, the 
numbers provided have not been audited by a third party audit firm.
Some of the information in this Corporate Sustainability Report may also contain “forward-looking statements.” All statements, 
other than statements of historical fact included in this Corporate Sustainability Report, regarding our strategy, future operations 
and forecasts of future events, including our environmental goals, are forward-looking statements. Words such as “may,” 
“assume,” “forecast,” “position,” “predict,” “strategy,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “project,” 
“budget,” “potential,” or “continue,” and similar expressions are used to identify forward-looking statements, although not all 
forward-looking statements contain such identifying words. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this 
report and are based on our current expectations and assumptions about future events and currently available information as to 
the outcome and timing of future events. When considering these forward-looking statements, investors should keep in mind any 
cautionary statements in this Corporate Sustainability Report, as well as the risk factors and other cautionary statements in our 
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). These forward-looking statements are management’s belief, based 
on currently available information, as to the outcome and timing of future events.  Although we believe that the plans, intentions 
and expectations reflected in or suggested by the forward-looking statements are reasonable, there is no assurance that these 
plans, intentions or expectations will be achieved. Therefore, actual outcomes and results could materially differ from what is 
expressed, implied or forecast in such statements. Except as required by law, we expressly disclaim any obligation to, and do not 
intend, to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
In addition, many of the standards and metrics used in preparing this Corporate Sustainability Report continue to evolve and 
are based on management expectations and assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time of preparation, but should not 
be considered guarantees. The standards and metrics used, and the expectations and assumptions they are based on, have not 
been verified by any third party. 
Factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by such forward-looking statements 
include:
 —Antero Resources Corporation’s (“Antero Resources”) expected production and development plan; 
 —Impacts to producer customers of insufficient storage capacity;
 —our ability to execute our business strategy;
 —  our ability to obtain debt or equity financing on satisfactory terms to fund additional acquisitions, expansion projects, 
working capital requirements and the repayment or refinancing of indebtedness;
 —our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of our investments in unconsolidated affiliates;
 —natural gas, natural gas liquids (“NGLs”) and oil prices;
 —impacts of world health events, including the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic;CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 80
 —  our ability to complete the construction of or purchase new gathering and compression, processing, water handling or 
other assets on schedule, at the budgeted cost or at all, and the ability of such assets to operate as designed or  
at expected levels;
 —our ability to execute our share repurchase program;
 —competition and government regulations;
 —actions taken by third-party producers, operators, processors and transporters;
 —pending legal or environmental matters;
 —costs of conducting our operations;
 —general economic conditions;
 —credit markets;
 —operating hazards, natural disasters, weather-related delays, casualty losses and other matters beyond our control;
 —uncertainty regarding our future operating results; and
 —our other plans, objectives, expectations and intentions contained in our filings with the SEC.
We caution investors that these forward-looking statements are subject to all of the risks and uncertainties incidental to our 
business, most of which are difficult to predict and are beyond our control. These risks include, but are not limited to, commodity 
price volatility, inflation, environmental risks, Antero Resources’ drilling and completion and other operating risks, regulatory 
changes, the uncertainty inherent in projecting Antero Resources’ future rates of production, cash flows and access to capital, 
the timing of development expenditures, impacts of world health events, including the COVID-19 pandemic, potential shut-ins 
of production by producers due to lack of downstream demand or storage capacity, and the other risks described under the 
heading “Risk Factors” in our filings with the SEC.
Should one or more of the risks or uncertainties described therein occur, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, our 
actual results and plans could differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements.
This Corporate Sustainability Report contains statements based on hypothetical or severely adverse scenarios and assumptions, 
and these statements should not necessarily be viewed as being representative of current or actual risk or forecasts of expected 
risk. While future events discussed in this report may be significant, any significance should not be read as necessarily rising to 
the level of materiality of certain disclosures included in our SEC filings.CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS
ANTERO MIDSTREAM  / 81
CONTACT US
ANTERO MIDSTREAM CORPORATION  
  1615 Wynkoop Street 
Denver, CO 80202
   anteromidstream.com
facebook.com/AnteroResources  
@AnteroResourcesFOLLOW US
