2020 ESG REPORT1
PEOPLE. PERFORMANCE. PURPOSE.
2020 ESG REPORT2
FOUNDER AND CEO MESSAGE
OUR COMPANY
Our Company
ESG at Antero Midstream
Engaging Our Stakeholders
Response to COVID-19 
Our Approach to ESG Reporting
Report Highlights
IMPROVING ENERGY ACCESS
Defining Energy Poverty
Uses and Benefits of Natural Gas and LPG
Supporting Energy Access
SOCIAL
Social Impact
Community Engagement
Boosting Local Economies
Philanthropy and Volunteerism
Workplace Culture
Retention and Recruiting
Diversity and Inclusion Commitment
Health and Safety
Safety Performance and Improvement
Safety Training and Recognition
Emergency Preparedness
Contractor Safety Management ENVIRONMENT
Energy Use
Biodiversity Protection
Water Use and Conservation 
Spill Prevention
Waste Management
Pipeline Integrity
TCFD
Climate Governance
Climate Strategy
Risk Management
Metrics and T argets 
GOVERNANCE
Leadership
Ethical Business Practices
Managing Risk
Cybersecurity
Partnering with Our Suppliers 
PERFORMANCE METRICS
CONTENT INDICES
SASB Standards
UN Sustainable Development Goals
TCFDCONTENTS
3 52
18
86
22
986
1102020 ESG REPORT3
DEAR STAKEHOLDERS, 
As one of the leading North American midstream infrastructure companies, we play a vital role in transporting the 
low-emission hydrocarbons needed to power our economy and heat our communities. Our relentless focus on 
people and performance has allowed us to successfully navigate the ever-changing economy while continuing to 
deliver stakeholder value. 
By prioritizing the health and well-being of our employees and communities, we maintained our high standards 
of operations during a challenging year. We celebrate and honor the dedication of our talented employees who 
recognize that the work we do, and the energy we deliver, is essential to support daily life, rebuild economies and 
drive improved quality of life around the globe. 
Our team consistently responds with flexibility, grit and determination to continue our operations safely and without 
interruption. We credit this performance to our employees’ skills and perseverance, and our entrepreneurial culture 
where employees have ownership of company performance.  
This dedication was also felt through our West Virginia and Ohio communities. We recognize the need to support 
our neighbors as many experienced increased struggles in 2020. With the launch of the Antero Foundation in 2020, 
we were able to make substantial donations to support hunger relief efforts and vulnerable families through the 
United Way and other community organizations.
PEOPLE ARE OUR PURPOSE
Our work creates well-paying jobs, invests in infrastructure and improves community resources. We build long-term 
relationships with our neighbors, recognizing that we are dedica ted to Appalachia for years to come. From providing 
more than $6 million in payments to landowners to investing more than $18 million in road improvements in 2020 
alone, partnering with the people of Appalachia has been part of our operations since our start. We will continue to 
make a difference by respecting the area’s people and land for generations to come.
Despite all of the changes in our daily lives, our corporate strategy remains constant. Antero Midstream continues to 
focus on operating expense and capital efficiencies, specifically matching our infrastructure capacity with production 
volumes. This proven strategy allows us to minimize waste from excess infrastructure and maintain high asset 
utilization rates across our portfolio. The result is consistent mid-teens returns on invested capital, an increase 
in free cash flow from last year and, most importantly, a concentrated footprint to limit our environmental and 
community impact.  
Providing integrated midstream services not only supports our bottom line but fulfills our purpose of positively 
impacting people with the energy we transport. According to the World Bank, 2.8 billion people are without access to 
clean cooking fuels and nearly 800 million people do not have electricity. 
Energy poverty is a global crisis that can be solved. As a critical infrastructure provider that links reliable energy 
supply and demand, we play a significant role in distributing the energy our world needs. Natural gas and natural gas 
liquids (NGLs) are reliable, accessible, affordable and safer to serve our most vulnerable populations.
2020 ESG REPORT4
AN OPERATOR OF CHOICE, 
A CULTURE OF CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT
We are a midstream operator and employer of choice with a culture of continuous improvement for our 
stakeholders. Innovation, collaboration and a drive to do better enabled us to improve our safety record in 2020 — a 
record that was already one of the lowest lost time incident rates in the industry. 
In addition, we recycled and reused more than 84% of the produced and flowback water delivered to us for disposal in 
2020. And, our transition from a Master Limited Partnership (MLP) to a C-Corp in 2019, and formation of a majority 
independent Board of Directors, highlights our commitment to enhanced governance and shareholder rights.
Our ESG Board Committee — a group of dedicated leaders who collaborate with our executives on ESG trends, 
issues and concerns — is deeply committed to ensuring that we are at the forefront of ESG opportunities. This 
committee was integral in developing our 2025 goals and will continue to be essential in influencing executive 
compensation. We are grateful for the expertise these committee members share with our management team and 
the perspectives they provide to strengthen our company. 
OUR ROLE IN A LOW-CARBON FUTURE
Delivering energy to drive a recovering global economy is a responsibility that we take seriously. We recognize 
our role in providing the infrastructure that supports a low-carbon future. Natural gas, as the least greenhouse gas 
(GHG) intensive hydrocarbon — is key to the energy transition and to addressing climate change risks. As natural 
gas replaces coal in power generation both in the U.S. and across the world, we experience a reduction in global 
emissions and demonstrate progress in meeting ambitious global climate goals.
We are committed to lowering GHG emissions across our assets — a commitment that aligns well with our strategy 
of having a limited operational footprint that allows for efficient expansion. Having this infrastructure ready enabled 
our partner, Antero Resources, to eliminate routine flaring, a common source of emissions across the oil and natural 
gas sector.
T o further encourage emissions reduction practices and advance our track record of industry-leading environmental 
results, we also set aggressive ESG targets to accomplish by 2025. 
Alignment with TCFD and 
SASB disclosure standards
We developed our ambitious goals after conducting a thorough review of our operations and thoughtful discussions 
with our executive leadership team and the Board. Read our Environmental section to learn more about our 
commitment and strategy to manage climate-related risks by proactively reducing GHG emissions and limiting the 
environmental impact of our operations.  100% reduction in pipeline 
maintenance emissions1 22025 ESG GOALS2020 ESG REPORT5
Our fresh water delivery system — the largest in Appalachia — supports our 2025 goals by reducing truck traffic and 
the related tailpipe emissions in our communities each year. In 2020, our water pipelines eliminated 32 million miles 
of truck traffic from community roads, avoiding approximately 14,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions.
We have also expanded our ESG reporting to include the new Energy Infrastructure Council/GPA Midstream ESG 
Reporting T emplate and a climate-risk analysis, as recommended in the T ask Force on Climate-Related Disclosures 
(TCFD) framework. By increasing our transparency around climate risk, we inform our stakeholders about how 
climate change could impact our business while reiterating our emissions reduction strategies and the benefits of 
natural gas for a low-carbon future. 
A LEGACY OF RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS
Natural gas is key to the energy transition and critical to delivering low-carbon, affordable fuel to rebuild the global 
economy. It is with pride, gratitude and hard work that we support this powerful mission with our performance every 
day. But bigger than the daily operations of midstream services are the people we impact. These lives — made better 
because of our work — will be our enduring legacy. Thank you to our employees, directors, partners and stakeholders 
for supporting our success and creating a legacy of responsible op erations.  
Paul M. Rady
Founder, Chairman, CEO and President
2020 ESG REPORT 52020 ESG REPORT6
At Antero Midstream, our employees are the core of our company and the people of Appalachia are at the 
heart of who we are. Our employees possess the skills and expertise needed to generate value year after 
year and represent the true strength and competitive advantage of Antero Midstream. With our continued focus 
on health, safety, security and preservation of the environment (HSSE), Antero Midstream will always prioritize our 
people and the communities where we operate. As a result, Antero Midstream has earned a reputation as a safe 
and environmentally responsible operator and continues to be a local 
employer of choice.
OUR COMPANY
Water Handling
Antero Midstream owns a closed-loop system 
of fresh water pipelines and storage facilitiesHeadquarters
Antero Midstream is 
headquartered in Denver, COGathering and Processing
Antero Midstream owns an integrated 
system of natural gas gathering pipelines and 
compressor stations, as well as an interest in 
processing and fractionation plants2020 ESG REPORT7
Antero Midstream (NYSE: AM) owns and operates an integrated system of natural gas gathering pipelines, 
compressor stations, processing and fractionation plants in the Marcellus and Utica Shales. 
Antero Midstream is an integrated midstream service provider that offers:
• Low and high pressure gathering and compression
• Natural gas processing and fractionation 
• Fresh water delivery for well completions
• Water handling focused on transporting and recycling flowback and produced water
A LEADER IN GAS GATHERING & PROCESSING...
AND WATER HANDLING SERVICES
SUPPORTING ANTERO RESOURCES, THE 2ND LARGEST NGL 
PRODUCER AND 4TH LARGEST NATURAL GAS PRODUCER IN THE U.S.3.2
Bcf/d of 
compression 
capacity
Largest fresh water 
delivery system in 
Appalachia468
miles of 
gathering 
pipeline
337
miles of fresh water 
pipelines and 37 fresh water 
storage facilities50/50
joint venture partner in 
the largest gas processing 
complex in North America
Integrated flowback 
and produced water 
handling system1.4
Bcf/d of joint 
venture processing 
capacity
100,000
Bbl/d of wastewater 
recycling and reuse capacity40
MBbl/d of joint 
venture fractionation 
capacity
2020 ESG REPORT 7As of December 31, 2020
From the start, Antero Midstream has focused on minimizing our operational and 
environmental footprint in the communities where we work. This commitment led us to 
construct the largest water pipeline system in Appalachia, eliminating 32 million miles 
of truck traffic from local roads in 2020. W e continue to evaluate additional safety and 
environmental improvement opportunities across our asset base.
- - - Brendan Krueger, Chief Financial Officer2020 ESG REPORT8
We are a company born in Colorado and raised in Appalachia across some of the most biodiverse and 
beautiful areas in the U.S. Our respect for the communities and environment is both personal and 
professional, rooted in the belief that resilient businesses have responsibility at their core. 
Our outstanding environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance exemplifies our unwavering commitment 
to do the right thing, take accountability for our actions and maintain our position as a world-class energy company 
and employer of choice. 
We are dedicated to adapting, leading and operating ethically and responsibly. This commitment is evident in our 
proven performance as we proactively care for our employees, contractors, communities and the environment.  
Not only is prioritizing safety and stewardship the right thing to do, but it’s the right way to maintain  
best-in-class operations. 
Our Board of Directors and executive leadership team drive our ESG strategy and monitor risks, opportunities 
and performance through the Board’s ESG Committee. A portion of our executive compensation is tied to ESG 
performance, which further incentivizes our team to make responsible decisions.ESG AT 
ANTERO MIDSTREAM
ESG STRATEGY
2020/2021 Focus Areas Actions
Managing climate-related risksStrengthening GHG emissions intensity reduction programs and setting 
clear and measured goals
Reducing fresh water use Reusing or recycling produced water and expanding our pipeline network
Enhancing safety and environmental 
management systemsImproved processes, guidance documents and procedures to enhance the 
performance of our workforce
Increasing transparency around  
ESG disclosuresAligning ESG reporting with the T ask Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) framework and the Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board (SASB)Our ESG strategy is based on the core business principles of 
safety for our employees, contractors and the community, 
and stewardship of the environment.2020 ESG REPORT9
SETTING GOALS FOR CONTINUED IMPROVEMENT
We’ve always been a company driven by performance. While commitments must come first, we believe actions speak 
louder than words. That’s why we included ESG metrics in our business strategy, set measurable goals to ensure 
accountability and tied executive compensation to these goals.
2025 ESG GOALS
Antero Midstream  
provides a customized 
midstream solution for 
Antero Resources
Appropriately sized 
infrastructure eliminates 
over-build and  
minimizes wasteAntero Midstream  
is ready with 
infrastructure support 
for Antero Resources’ 
production
Zero routine flaring and 
zero flared intensity 
(reflects percent of gas 
production flared)Antero Resources is fully 
integrated with Antero 
Midstream’s expansive water 
handling infrastructure
Antero Midstream’s water 
collection system eliminated 32MM 
miles driven on community roads 
in 2020, avoiding approximately 
14,000 metric tons of CO2eAntero Resources and Antero 
Midstream share the same 
training programs, safe work 
practices and safety consultantsAlignment with TCFD and 
SASB disclosure standards
The combined effect allows 
for improved communication, 
shared learnings from incident 
investigations and combined 
corrective action plansLEADING ESG PERFORMANCE: A SHARED VISION
With a shared vision to be ESG leaders in our operating areas, Antero Resources and Antero Midstream work hand-
in-hand to minimize each company’s impact while creating material synergies.We developed our ambitious goals after conducting a thorough review of our operations and thoughtful discussions 
with our executive leadership team and the Board ESG Committee. Read our Environmental section to learn more 
about our commitment and strategy to manage climate-related risks by proactively reducing GHG emissions and 
limiting the environmental impact of our operations.  100% reduction in pipeline 
maintenance emissions1 2
50/50 JV 
with MPLX
Exploration & Production Gathering & Compression
Water Delivery & RecyclingNatural Gas Processing C3 + NGL Fractionation2020 ESG REPORT10
At Antero Midstream, successful 
engagement starts with listening 
and seeking to understand how we 
collaborate with our stakeholders better. 
Through transparent dialogue, we can 
work together to solve community issues, 
promote economic opportunities and 
build relationships to help our operating 
areas thrive. 
OUR STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT COMMITMENTS
Antero, its work and its employees are vital to W est Virginia’s economic development, and 
a critical voice in the ongoing dialogue about moving our state forward. Antero doesn’t just 
produce natural gas — it produces jobs, community investments and opportunities for our 
state’s future.
- Steve Roberts, President, W est Virginia Chamber of Commerce
ENGAGING OUR 
STAKEHOLDERS
Our stakeholders have different needs, interests 
and opinions — important perspectives that help 
to shape how we operate. W e actively engage with 
our stakeholders to build long-term relationships, 
identifying the intersection of shared values with the 
goal of sustainable outcomes. 
- Kevin Ellis, Regional Vice President
Problem 
SolvingListening Transparent 
DialogueInformation 
Sharing
2020 ESG REPORT 102020 ESG REPORT11
BUILDING AND MAINTAINING  
STAKEHOLDER RELATIONSHIPS
Stakeholder 
Audience Type of Engagement Engagement Frequency
Academic
Research• Colorado State Methane Emissions T echnology Evaluation 
Center (METEC) Research Group partnership• As needed for projects
Business 
Partners 
Contractors and 
Suppliers• T ailgate meetings, site orientations and annual contractor 
HSSE conference
• Recognition programs, training and performance 
management tracking through a vendor management 
service• Daily for partners on-site
• 24/7 ethics hotline
Communities 
Residents, emergency 
management, NGO’s 
and nonprofits• Community Relations team in each operating area 
• Meetings to discuss emergency response plans and/or 
community needs
• Community Relations hotline and email
• Site tours and emergency response drills 
• Donation management (in-kind resources or financial) 
• Event and conference • Daily for meetings, events 
and donation management
• Regularly scheduled site 
tours 
• At least one major 
emergency response drill 
annually
• Local media engagement as 
needed
Employees • Intranet, email communications, ethics hotline and website
• Events with leadership, team meetings, trainings (safety, 
governance and professional development)• Daily with communications 
available 24/7
• Quarterly town hall 
meetings
Government 
Elected Officials and 
Regulatory• Meetings to discuss regulatory issues, industry 
perspectives and lessons learned
• T ours of active drilling and completion operations and 
producing well sites
• Involvement in local and county task forces• At least biweekly 
(engagement frequency 
increases during the 
legislative session)
Industry • Meetings and networking events
• Trade association participation• At least bi-weekly 
employee engagement
Investors • Dedicated Investor Relations team 
• Financial presentations, SEC filings, annual report, ESG 
report and press releases
• Equity and bond conferences, in-office meetings with 
institutional investors, quarterly earnings calls and annual 
meeting of shareholders• Information on-demand 
24/7
• Investor earnings calls 
occur quarterly with 
one-on-one investor 
communications  
occurring daily
Landowners • Dedicated Owner Relations team
• In-person meetings and/or community gatherings
• Owner Relations portal on website with FAQ’s, a dedicated 
email address and hotlines based on location• Portal available 24/7
• Owner Relations team 
available Monday-Friday, 8 
am to 5 pm2020 ESG REPORT12
As we monitored COVID-19’s spread globally, we recognized the critical role natural gas would play in meeting 
the world’s challenges. From powering critical healthcare equipment to refrigerating lifesaving vaccines, 
natural gas has fueled both the response and relief efforts to fight COVID-19. NGLs also serve as a feedstock to help 
produce medical supplies and safety equipment that are essential in the fight against COVID-19. 
KEEPING OUR EMPLOYEES SAFE
As an essential business that transports the energy so many rely upon, our work did not stop during the pandemic. 
We were committed to maintaining operations by putting employee safety first — updating our protocols to protect 
our team members. 
Shortly after the virus’ spread in the U.S., we implemented a work-from-home program where 85% of our workforce 
worked remotely, with minimal interruption to our established business processes. For our employees who 
continued their in-person work, we required weekly testing, social distancing and increased personal protective 
equipment. 
Employees and contractors were required to provide verification of a negative COVID 
test before they are allowed to access Antero Midstream locations. We developed a hard 
hat sticker system that indicated when the negative COVID test was received.
Our executives relied upon situational progress reports, using guidance from our safety 
and crisis teams to make decisions concerning our workforce. Leadership also regularly 
engaged with our Board about workplace safety. 
T o support our employees’ mental health during the pandemic, we encouraged the use of 
our Employee Assistance Program which offers complimentary mental health assistance 
for both employees and their family members regardless of enrollment in our health insurance program. 
COVID-19 PROTECTION MEASURESRESPONSE 
TO COVID-19
• Advanced disinfectant and cleaning processes
• T emperature screening kiosks
• Adaptive PPE program
• Required quarantine if symptomatic or positive 
for the virus
• Mobile testing protocols for field operations• Work-from-home program for eligible employees
• Social distancing and mask mandates on 
company locations
• Weekly testing at minimum for office and certain 
field positions
2020 ESG REPORT 1211/21/2011/21/20COVID TESTINGCOVID TESTING
COVID test hard hat sticker2020 ESG REPORT13
I’m so proud of The Antero Foundation for stepping up and helping with this generous 
donation to our Mountaineer Food Bank. The folks at Antero bring all kinds of goodness 
to W est Virginia, in terms of jobs, natural gas, and economic impact. But I’m very happy to 
see them going above and beyond to ensure that no one goes hungry. That’s exactly what it 
means to help your neighbor and what it means to be W est Virginia Strong.
- W est Virginia Governor Jim JusticePROTECTING OUR OPERATIONS   
Antero’s companywide pandemic, business continuity and disaster recovery procedures allowed for continued 
communication and continuity of significant operations across the Appalachian region and in Denver. 
Our crisis team, in partnership with HR, HSSE, IT and Legal, transitioned the majority of our personnel to work 
remotely without pausing our operations. Beginning in the summer of 2021, following the mass availability of 
vaccines, we initiated a measured approach to returning to the office. 
MEETING COMMUNITY NEEDS
Although the pandemic forced us to cancel several of our 
annual community fundraising events, specifically our 
Kentucky Derby Gala and Oil & Gas Dodgeball T ournament, 
we shifted to support our communities’ immediate  
COVID needs.
Food Insecurity
With significant loss of income during the 
pandemic, some of our neighbors faced 
increased food insecurity. In response, the 
Antero Foundation pledged $150,000 to 
the Mountaineer Food Bank, challenging the 
community to match its gift. More than $300,000 
was raised from 250 donors, increasing the reach 
of the organization’s mobile food pantries and 
backpack programs.Personal Protective Equipment
In May 2020, Antero Midstream provided ANSI-
certified face shields and hand sanitizer to WVU 
Medicine, Louis A. Johnson VA Hospital, Camden 
Clark Medical Center and Marietta Memorial 
Hospital to protect our healthcare workers on 
the frontline. Additionally, when the Doddridge 
County Emergency Management Agency reached 
out for help, Antero Midstream supplied Tyvek 
suits to safeguard their workers.Antero Midstream brought in local 
clinics to provide free vaccinations 
for both employees and their 
families in Denver and West Virginia
2020 ESG REPORT 132020 ESG REPORT14
OUR APPROACH
In our fourth year of reporting, we remain committed to relevant, transparent and accessible communications 
about our ESG efforts while focusing on continuous improvement. Although we communicate about ESG through 
a number of formats, this publication is our most comprehensive reporting about ESG topics that matter most to 
our stakeholders.   
This report contains performance data — as of December 31, 2020 — and content that is either specific to 2020 or 
beyond for continued improvement. We published separate reports for Antero Resources and Antero Midstream, 
however given the companies’ organizational and ownership structure, stakeholders may notice consistencies 
between publications. Any reporting overlap was done strategically to show the uniformity and oversight shared by 
the affiliated companies.  
REPORTING GUIDANCE
T o enhance our disclosures and ensure relevance for our stakeholders, we used Value Reporting Foundation’s  
SASB Standards and IPIECA’s Sustainability reporting guidance for the oil and gas industry as our primary drivers of 
content. We also consulted the core option of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)’s Standards, the United Nations (UN) 
Sustainable Development Goals and Global Compact’s T en Principles and relevant ESG rating agencies  
and scorecards.  
CLIMATE-RELATED DISCLOSURES
Included in this ESG report is our first climate risk analysis reviewing our ability to remain resilient as the world 
progresses to a lower carbon future. This analysis includes our projected performance based on a variety of potential 
future scenarios. We also note our climate-related governance and emissions reduction plans, all disclosures in 
alignment with the TCFD recommendations. 
OUR APPROACH 
TO ESG REPORTING2020 ESG REPORT15
PRIORITIZING ESG ISSUES  
In 2020 we conducted an ESG priority assessment to determine the key ESG topics to our stakeholders. 
Our assessment evaluates ESG matters against two criteria - potential impact to our business and importance to our 
stakeholders — and helps share our ESG strategy, risk management process and reporting focus. We shared the results 
of this assessment with executive leadership and the Board through the ESG Committee process. 
ESG PRIORITY ASSESSMENT STEPS
Analyze information and 
incorporate into ESG 
strategy and reportingDefine purpose 
and scopeEngage 
managementIdentify topics 1 2 3 4
2020 ESG PRIORITY ASSESSMENT TOPICS
HEALTH AND SAFETY 
COMMUNITY RELATIONS 
CLIMATE AND GHG EMISSIONS 
WATER 
AIR
ETHICS
LANDOWNER RELATIONS
GOVERNANCEDIVERSITY 
EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT
BIODIVERSITY
SPILLS
SUPPL Y CHAIN
WASTE
HUMAN AND LABOR RIGHTS
2020 ESG REPORT 152020 ESG REPORT16
REPORT 
HIGHLIGHTS
Tied ESG 
performance 
with executive 
compensation6
years since last employee 
lost time incident
100%
of fresh water used was 
transported by pipeline84%
of flowback and produced water 
gathered was reused or recycled
29%
of independent 
directors are female0.015%
methane leak loss rate$6 MM
paid to landowners for 
Midstream activities$682,000
donated by the Antero Foundation 
benefiting charitable causesSOCIAL
ENVIRONMENT
GOVERNANCEAdopted Supplier Code of 
Business Conduct and Ethics;  
Diversity and Inclusion Policy; 
and Human, Labor and 
Indigenous Rights Policy
2020 ESG REPORT 16Combined AR and AM contribution
The methane leak loss rate follows the ONE Future calculation protocol2020 ESG REPORT17
 2020 ESG REPORT 172020 ESG REPORT18
The challenge of meeting the world’s increasing demand for energy while also ushering in a lower carbon future is 
complex. The United Nations has projected that global population will increase from 7.7 billion in 2019 to nearly 10 
billion in 2050, and energy demand will grow with it. A significa nt portion of the global population growth will come 
from developing nations that are currently struggling to provide the energy needed for their citizens to prosper. 
T o meet the global energy challenge, we must identify and implement solutions to reduce both local pollution and 
GHG emissions without sacrificing economic and humanitarian imperatives. Stable and affordable energy supplies 
will make it possible for more people to access healthcare, transportation and education that contribute to improved 
living standards and a higher quality of life. We believe that it is critical for Antero Midstream to be a leader in the 
global energy transition and to be part of the solution in improving the lives of humans both domestically and abroad.
DEFINING ENERGY POVERTY
Energy poverty, defined by the World Economic Forum as the lack of access to sustainable modern energy services 
and products, is a global crisis affecting both human health and prosperity. People suffering from a lack of access to 
modern energy will have a lower life expectancy rate, lower education levels and lower per capital income. 
Around 3 billion people, nearly one-third of the world’s population, are required to cook using solid fuels (wood, crop 
wastes, charcoal, coal and dung) and kerosene in open fires and inefficient stoves. These cooking practices produce 
high levels of household air pollution with a wide range of damaging health impacts. Women and girls, who are often 
responsible for cooking in most regions of the world, are the most at risk.
According to the World Health Organization (WHO), 3.8 million people a year die prematurely from illness 
attributable to the household air pollution caused by the inefficient use of solid fuels and kerosene for cooking. 
789 
million75%
28%people are without 
electricity access — 
that’s 13% of the 
global populationof sub-Saharan Africa does not 
have access to modern energy
of sub-Saharan health facilities 
do not have reliable electricity
Source: International Energy Agency Source: United Nations
PROVIDING THE ENERGY TO IMPROVE 
LIVES AROUND THE WORLD2020 ESG REPORT19
Energy poverty has been a global problem for centuries, but it can be solved. Despite lower incomes in the 
developing world, there are opportunities to move away from the most polluting fuel sources. The U.S. shale 
revolution has had a significant impact on lowering the energy cost for those people suffering from energy poverty. 
China and India have made tremendous progress on replacing inefficient, hazardous cookstoves by expanding access 
to cleaner fuels, with particular focus on liquified petroleum gas (LPG). The U.S. is now the world’s largest exporter of 
LPG, resulting in greater supplies at lower costs.
USES AND BENEFITS OF NATURAL GAS & LPG
As the lightest and least GHG intensive hydrocarbon, natural gas provides energy for cooking and heating and 
supplies the power stations that provide electricity to homes and businesses around the world. Natural gas is 
abundant, versatile and available now to meet the growing global demand for energy. It is also able to partner with 
renewable energy sources and thus, expected to play a fundamental role as both the U.S. and global economies 
transition to a lower carbon future.  
Natural gas can also be cooled to -260º F, turning it into liquified natural gas (LNG). This process makes it possible 
to transport natural gas to locations that pipelines do not reach. In its compact liquid form, natural gas can be 
shipped in special tankers to terminals around the world. At these terminals LNG is returned to its gaseous state and 
transported by pipeline to distribution companies, industrial consumers, and power plants. LNG is used as a lower-
emissions fuel for ships, trucks, buses and trains, and an alternative to coal for power generation. 
Natural gas produced in the Appalachian region of the U.S. generates an added benefit in the form of natural gas 
liquids (NGLs). Ethane, propane and butane, a few examples of NGLs, are used as inputs for petrochemical plants, 
burned for space heating and cooking, and blended into vehicle fuel. Significant volumes of NGLs are produced in 
Appalachia and shipped both domestically and globally. 
LPG stands for Liquid Petroleum Gas, typically 75% propane and 25% butane. LPG has become the fuel of choice 
for cooking and heating in parts of the developing world as it’s safer and cleaner than coal or biomass and does not 
require extensive infrastructure and pipelines. LPG is typically transported by ship, rail, pipeline, truck and other 
smaller vehicles and stored in bottles, cylinders, tanks or large vessels.
RECYCLABLE 
FOOD PACKAGINGINDUSTRIAL & 
MANUFACTURINGHEALTH CARE PRODUCTS & 
PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENTELECTRICITY 
GENERATIONTRANSPORTATIONHEATING & 
COOKING
2020 ESG REPORT 192020 ESG REPORT20
SUPPORTING ENERGY ACCESS
As the fourth largest U.S. natural gas producer and the second largest U.S. NGL producer, Antero Resources is 
directly supplying a portion of the energy needed to improve the health, safety and livelihood for people living 
in energy poverty. In 2020, Antero Resources’ natural gas and natural gas liquids were delivered to customers 
throughout the world, including many developing nations. Antero Midstream plays a vital role in transporting and 
processing these products into a marketable form for consumer consumption.
PORT
Antero Resources 
explores, develops and 
produces natural gas, 
NGLs and oil in the U.S.Antero Midstream supports 
Antero Resources with pipeline 
infrastructure, allowing product 
to consistently and efficiently 
travel to shipping ports for sale. Once at the port, LNG 
and NGLs are shipped 
to countries around the 
world through one of our 
shipping partners.PRODUCTION PIPELINE
In 2020, Antero Resources was responsible for 
the equivalent of 90 cargoes of LNG being sent to 
international markets
• Supplied 120 Bcf to Cove Point LNG , the equivalent of 38 cargoes 
• Supplied 25 Bcf to Freeport LNG , the equivalent of 7 cargoes
• Supplied 145 Bcf to Sabine LNG , the equivalent of 45 cargoes90
LNG CARGOES
7
LNG CARGOES45
LNG CARGOES38
LNG CARGOESANTERO LNG CARGO DESTINATIONS
2020 ESG REPORT21
36
LPG CARGOESIn 2020, over 19 million barrels of Antero propane 
and butane  were shipped to international markets. 
On average, that is over 54,000 barrels per day and 
roughly 36 very large gas carrier (VLGC) cargoes 
over the course of 2020. A significant portion of 
Antero’s NGLs were sent to Africa, Asia and Europe.
36
LPG CARGOES
2020 ESG REPORT 21ANTERO LPG CARGO DESTINATIONS
In 2020, approximately 7 million barrels, or 1/3 of Antero’s LPG exports 
were shipped to developing countries as defined by the United Nations. 
These LPG exports have supplied cleaner energy to households in 
developing countries for heating, cooking and aided in the transition 
from solid fuels and kerosene to lower GHG intensive sources.2020 ESG REPORT22
Producing the energy the world needs is our job, but people are our purpose. We work every day to increase 
the positive impacts from our operations and mitigate those that are negative. It’s our goal that our employees, 
partners and neighbors, and communities will be stronger because of their relationships with Antero Midstream.
OUR PEOPLE
SOCIAL
Communities
Our employees, business partners and neighbors make up 
the communities where we live and work. We commit to 
strengthening our communities through long-term relationships, 
sustainable investment and by meeting local needs.
Employees and Business Partners
Our employees and business partners work 
together to meet our company objectives. Neighbors
Often, our work takes place on properties owned by our neighbors. 
We commit to honest and transparent engagement, and safe worksites. 
2020 ESG REPORT 222020 ESG REPORT23
SOCIAL IMPACT
Through honest long-term relationships, and deep roots in Appalachia, we’re more than a local business — we’re a 
neighbor committed to seeing our communities thrive. Our work is intended to make a positive impact and we are 
dedicated to transparent engagement and investment in the places where we live and work.
DEFINING SOCIAL AT ANTERO MIDSTREAM  
Any issue or matter that impacts a community where Antero Midstream operates
Land owner who receives surface use payments
Surface owner who signed a surface 
agreement allowing Antero Midstream to build 
a compressor station
Neighbors benefiting from maintained and 
upgraded community roads 
Local workforce benefiting from high-paying 
job opportunities School teacher who received upgraded 
resources due to increased tax revenue
Nonprofit organization that benefits from both 
Antero Midstream employee volunteer hours 
and a financial donation from the company 
Local business owner who experiences an 
increase in sales due to presence of additional 
workers in the areaPhilanthropy and 
The Antero FoundationCommunity engagement 
and investmentOwner relations
POSITIVE SOCIAL IMPACT EXAMPLES
2020 ESG REPORT 23Ohio River Sweep volunteer team2020 ESG REPORT24
Q&A  WITH  AL SCHOPP
CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER 
AND REGIONAL SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT
How do you approach community relations at Antero Midstream?
In short, we put relationships first. We make an investment in the communities we call home, getting to know our 
neighbors and their needs. We believe that relationships are built on honesty and transparent engagement, and we 
apply these values to every aspect of our operations. 
We also partner with charitable organizations through The Antero Foundation. These nonprofits allow us to be a 
resource to the most vulnerable in our communities. Through both donations and employee volunteer time, we 
proudly serve our neighbors and strengthen our operating areas. 
West Virginia is home to many small towns with rich histories. How do you balance your 
operations with protecting community landmarks?
I live in West Virginia and am the first to celebrate the hidden gems that exist in the small towns across our state. 
Before we begin any project, we do an extensive site assessment, evaluating potential locations for cultural and 
natural resources. If we do identify a resource, we are committed to adapting our site plans to avoid or protect that 
resource. We also voluntarily document any cultural resources we encounter through our operations, recognizing 
that they are important history to the people of West Virginia.  
Although most of Antero’s operations are rural, you do operate on people’s land. What 
measures do you put in place to protect community and personal property?  
In West Virginia and Ohio, to disrespect the land, is to disrespect the people. As a long-time resident of Appalachia, 
Antero Midstream is dedicated to preserving the land for generations. 
In addition to extensive safety requirements to protect our people and neighbors, our project design standards 
conserve the soil, groundwater and biodiversity in and around our sites. We lead the industry in erosion and 
sediment control as our team of stormwater experts partner with manufacturers to customize erosion solutions, 
helping to limit the sediment that leave our sites.  
We also go above and beyond regulatory requirements to protect groundwater resources. By conducting baseline 
water sampling and providing results to our neighbors, we have transparent dialogue about local water quality.
Lastly, we recognize that many of our site “neighbors” are animals native to our operating areas. We regularly work 
with wildlife agencies to identify and avoid sensitive habitats and understand wildlife needs. For example, if we clear 
trees in an area, we install bat boxes to provide artificial habitat structures. We coordinate with wildlife agencies 
about this practice, enabling them to better track and trend bat populations across West Virginia and Ohio.  
2020 ESG REPORT25
COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT
At Antero Midstream, being a good neighbor means building long-t erm relationships, delivering solutions to 
community issues and promoting economic opportunities to help our operating areas develop and thrive. 
Our community engagement strategy, which is supported at the highest levels of our organization and fulfilled 
through the dedication of our employees, focuses on delivering purposeful value to the communities we serve. 
We recognize that positive impact is strongest when it is both long-term and sustainable, and we developed 
engagement programs that promote these goals. Transparency and accountability are also foundational to our 
engagement approach. 
ADDRESSING COMMUNITY CONCERNS
We look for every opportunity to ensure we are delivering the greatest value and minimizing impact to the 
communities where we operate. This commitment is a priority that spans every level of our organization, from our 
leadership team to workers in the field.  
Should there be a community concern with our operations, we have a process to efficiently receive, investigate and 
resolve any feedback. Managed by a dedicated group of specialists, Antero’s Community Relations team addresses 
each inquiry, ensuring it reaches the correct department for resolution. 
A cornerstone of this effort is our Community Relations Hotline . This telephone and email system, created in 2014, 
tracks community concerns including road maintenance, speeding, dust, noise and property impacts. Hotline contact 
information is displayed on signs in our operating areas, on social media and distributed to our contractors and 
neighbors in the field. 
Responsiveness is a priority for our Community Relations team, so when contact is made to our hotline, we respond 
within 24 hours. In some cases, we schedule in-person visits as needed to address the concern. 
of concerns raised through 
our Community Relations 
Hotline have been resolved98%
2020 ESG REPORT 252020 ESG REPORT26
COMMUNITY CONCERNS MANAGEMENT PROCESS
1 2 3 4 5 6
Community 
concern is 
received, most 
often through 
our Community 
Relations HotlineConcern 
is ticketed 
for internal 
managementCommunity 
Relations team 
member evaluates 
concern and 
resolves within 
24 hours, if 
possibleIf not resolved 
by Community 
Relations, the 
concern is directed 
to the appropriate 
departmentCommunity 
Relations 
monitors open 
tickets to ensure 
concerns are 
addressedAn in-person 
visit is scheduled, 
if needed
OWNER RELATIONS INQUIRIES
COMMUNITY RELATIONS INQUIRIES
MITIGATING IMPACT WITH INNOVATION
T o further meet the needs of our communities and mitigate our impact, we respond with innovation and resources. 
Providing snow removal and ice control  to many of our operating areas, relieving some financial impact 
on local agencies 
Building multiple pads from one access road , which keeps equipment moves to lease roads vs. state 
and local routes
Performing operations simultaneously, when possible, to decrease the amount of disruption time a 
community may experience
Adopting self-imposed curfews  during morning and afternoon school bus routes to not interfere with 
school-related traffic
Using flaggers  — members of the community hired to direct traffic — to reinforce safe driving practices when 
truck traffic is heavier than usual
24/7 GPS monitoring  of all water trucks to help keep community roads safe 
2020 ESG REPORT 26TICKETS CLOSED OR RESOLVED: 17,146
TICKETS CLOSED: 2,959Resolution Rate
Resolution Rate97%
98%TICKETS CREATED: 3,006TICKETS CREATED: 17,6792020 ESG REPORT27
PARTNERING WITH OWNERS
Surface owners are an important part of our operations. Before building any site, Antero’s Land team meets with 
surface owners to discuss the possibility of obtaining surface use agreements in exchange for compensation. 
Once surface use agreements are in place, our Land team continues to work with surface owners to discuss site 
development plans and answer any questions that arise. 
We also provide an Owner Relations Hotline  for owners so we can effectively and efficiently track and answer a 
range of questions. The hotline’s website also offers frequently asked questions if an owner has a question outside of 
business hours. 
RESPECTING ALL PEOPLE
Rooted in our community work is a respect for all people. T o formalize this commitment, we adopted two new 
policies that detail our expectations for employees and business partners regarding how we conduct our operations.
Supplier Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
Promotes the fair and ethical treatment of suppliers, contractors, independent consultant and other partners 
with a set of guidelines focused on equal opportunity, workplace safety, compensation and protection of 
proprietary information. 
Human, Labor and Indigenous Rights Policy
Promotes respect of human rights through compliance with applicable national and local laws, as well as 
material norms of business, specific to compensation, discrimination, health and safety, community and 
Indigenous peoples.
Businesses play an important role in addressing human rights challenges, in collaboration 
with governmental authorities and other actors. Antero Midstream is committed to the 
recognition and protection of human rights where we have control, wherever we operate.
 – from Antero’s Human, Labor and Indigenous Rights Policy
2020 ESG REPORT 272020 ESG REPORT28
 2020 ESG REPORT 28BOOSTING 
LOCAL ECONOMIES - 2020
In 2020, Antero’s financial investment across North Central West Virginia and Southeast Ohio were significant, 
supporting economic and community growth. Through employment and royalty and tax payments, individual 
counties received revenue boosts providing additional resources for infrastructure and education.
ROYALTY AND 
SURFACE PAYMENTS
T otal property taxes paid in West Virginia and Ohio
T otal severance taxes paid in West Virginia and OhioMore than $63 MM
More than $54 MMTAX REVENUE SUPPORTS 
COMMUNITY GROWTH
In addition to the vital jobs Antero Midstream 
provides, the company pays meaningful local and 
state tax revenues. Severance taxes, property taxes 
and income taxes enhance local schools, roads and 
senior services provided by government agencies.The benefits of our economic contributions are also felt at the individual level, where families enjoy royalty payments 
from their participation in natural gas production and surface owners are compensated for use of their land.
More than 
$9 MM
In surface payments$37 4.5 MM
In lease and 
royalty payments13,497
Residents benefitedMore than
$242 MM
In residents’ revenueDIRECT AND INDIRECT 
EMPLOYMENTSTATE AND LOCAL 
TAX REVENUE
Figures represent AR and AM combinedAs of Dec. 31, 2020
Figures represent AR and AM combined2020 ESG REPORT29
 2020 ESG REPORT 29
New facilities are another benefit of natural 
gas investment in Doddridge County. Using 
increased tax revenue, the school system 
constructed a trade center where students 
can be trained and certified in natural gas 
operations and other related trades. A new 
$13 million athletic complex also benefits 
the student community.$22,830  
98.6%   $12,640   
91.3%   Per pupil expenditure in Doddridge 
County in FY 2019-2020
Doddridge County 
graduation rateStatewide per pupil 
expenditure average
Statewide graduation 
rate averageLOCAL SCHOOLS BENEFIT FROM ADDITIONAL TAX REVENUE
One of the lasting effects of our presence in North Central West Virginia is the betterment of educational resources 
in the counties where we operate. For example, in Doddridge County, Antero’s operations have generated 
approximately $70 million in property taxes since 2016. 
The state mandates that 70% of property taxes go to local public schools. Antero’s presence in Doddridge County 
translates to thousands of dollars more per student, and the school system features better-than-average  
educational results.2020 ESG REPORT30
INFRASTRUCTURE 
IMPROVEMENTS CREATE 
LASTING IMPACT
Improved infrastructure is an investment that remains long after our initial visit to an area. We spent 
more than $26 million on road improvements in 2020 — in total, more than $250 million since 2013. 
We typically upgrade roads before they are used in operations, helping to keep the roads passable for 
the community during the development phase. 
2020 Since 2013
County road upgrades $14.3 MM $91.8 MM
Slip road repair $0.9 MM $4.3 MM
Voluntary W.V. Department of 
Highway Projects $1 MM $3.9 MM
Road maintenance and snow 
plowing $2.8 MM $28.1 MM
Traffic control operations $7 .4 MM $131.7 MM
T otal spendOver
$26 MM  Over
$259 MM
2020 ESG REPORT 30As of Dec. 31, 2020
Figures represent AR and AM combined2020 ESG REPORT31
PHILANTHROPY 
AND VOLUNTEERISM
 
Antero’s commitment to giving back is a longstanding hallmark of our company and 2020, although challenging, was 
no different. Our philanthropic work focuses on developing meaningful partnerships that deliver sustained value 
and offer opportunities to meet our communities’ immediate needs. Charitable activities are fully supported by our 
highly engaged leadership team and overseen by a dedicated team of Antero Midstream employees who focus our 
resources effectively and track progress.
ANTERO MIDSTREAM 
GIVES BACK
CHARITABLE GIVING AND LAUNCHING 
THE ANTERO FOUNDATION
In 2020, Antero Resources and Antero Midstream proudly launched The Antero 
Foundation to cultivate the company’s rich history of supporting local causes 
in our communities. The Antero Foundation’s mission is to build thriving and 
healthy communities by supporting nonprofit organizations where Antero 
operates and our employees work and live.Employee 
VolunteerismDonations Fundraising
2020 ESG REPORT 31DONATIONS BY CHARITABLE GIVING CATEGORY$682,000
Donated in 2020Nearly
$2.3 MM
Donated in the last five years
Health and Human Services Arts and CultureCommunity 
DevelopmentEducationEnvironmental 
Causes2020 ESG REPORT32
IMPACT STORIES
$200,000
with $700,000 to have 
been given by 2022
$150,000
donated in 2020
“The Antero Foundation stepped up in a big way to support hunger relief work in West Virginia. Families are really 
struggling with accessing food, and the foundation’s commitment to feeding hungry families was evident throughout the 
whole organization, from the top down. Antero was active in fostering the conversations about hunger and getting their 
staff, vendors and communities involved in the solution.” 
- Chad Morrison, President and CEO, Mountaineer Food BankRobinson Grand Performing Arts Center, a century-old theatre and one of North 
Central West Virginia’s largest economic development projects
Antero has served as the largest supporter of Robinson Grand’s capital campaign 
which funds countless cultural opportunities that engage seniors, adults, youth, 
schools and community organizations.
"Antero has been an outstanding partner and supporter of the Robinson Grand's renovation and ongoing mission. 
From the early vision in 2017 to our grand re-opening in 2018 and throughout a challenging pandemic, Antero has 
remained steadfast as our largest and most dedicated advocate. Their passion for this community sets a standard that 
many corporations aspire to. Whether it's preserving a historic venue, providing arts and cultural opportunities for our 
residents, or sparking economic development in the region, Antero continues to help us achieve these goals on a daily 
basis. I'm proud and honored to have them in our community. " 
- Ryan W. T olley, Executive Director, Robinson Grand Performing Arts Center
The Antero Foundation kicked off a community matching campaign to benefit the 
regional food bank. 2020 ESG REPORT33
ANTERO TRUCKS GIVEN NEW PURPOSE 
In addition to our financial donations, Antero donates company resources. The company gave the 
United T echnical Center, a career training school in Clarksburg, WV, 10 company trucks to use for the 
school’s automotive technology program. Students training to be in the automotive industry will practice 
mechanical and body work on the vehicles.
2020 ESG REPORT 33Future Farmers of America and Livestock Associations, developing student interest and leadership abilities in 
the field of agriculture"Antero has been a loyal supporter of United Way for years. Thousands of local seniors, children, families, people with 
disabilities, and many more have been served thanks to their generosity. Antero’s willingness to engage our community's 
most daunting social challenges at the grassroots level has been a blessing to our area. By establishing the Antero 
Foundation, they have gone beyond the point of proving their corporate commitment to Harrison and 
Doddridge Counties." 
- Brad Riffee, Executive Director, United Way of Harrison and Doddridge CountiesUnited Way of Harrison and Doddridge Counties, fighting for the health, education and financial stability of 
every person in both West Virginia countiesChildren’s Home Society of West Virginia, an organization that has provided critical services to vulnerable 
children and families since 1896
“We were blessed and overwhelmed with joy as we again received a generous contribution from The Antero Foundation. 
This came at a time when we needed to replenish our resource centers with food, clothing and infant care items, help 
struggling grand families, provide activities for our quarantined shelter children and provide items to our families served 
through our Safe at Home program and early intervention programs. This contribution was divided amongst our 13 
primarily locations, serving all 55 counties, each getting funds for their programs’ emergent needs. There are no words to 
adequately express what this donation meant to our Children’s Home Society staff … just knowing that they would now 
have resources to help children in communities statewide.” 
- Mary White, Chief Operations Officer, Children’s Home Society of West Virginia
“FFA members are the luckiest students in the state of West Virginia. There are so many people and companies who are 
not only willing, but are eager to support them. Without this support many of these kids would never get the chance to 
leave their own town, let alone become a successful adult. Antero is making a difference by investing in our students. I 
genuinely believe that the best way to make a difference is by investing in these programs to give kids a fighting chance to 
begin their lives. ”
- Jacob Rabel, Agriculture Education Instructor, Doddridge County High School2020 ESG REPORT34
KENTUCKY DERBY GALA
Has supported West Virginia youth, 
domestic violence victims 
and heart health 
OIL & GAS DODGEBALL 
TOURNAMENT
Benefiting at-risk West Virginia 
youth and local parks 
UNITED WAY HOT WING 
EATING CONTEST
Benefiting United Way 
member agenciesFUNDRAISING
Antero organizes and hosts a number of fundraising events to encourage both community building and donations 
to worthy causes. These community activities are employee-driven and employee-led, showing the dedication, 
creativity and resources of our talented team. Although we were forced to cancel many of our fundraising activities 
in 2020, we are committed to continuing them safely in 2021 and beyond.
4 
years+
4 
years+$204,000 
raised so far
$415,000 
raised so far
$240,000 
Antero has been an event leader since 2015; 
raised nearly $240,000 in 2018 and 2019 
(Antero brought in $163,000 of these funds)1,000 attendees from 
120 companies in 2019
2020 ESG REPORT 342020 ESG REPORT35
JEFFERSON AWARD CELEBRATES LOCAL VOLUNTEERS 
Antero Midstream is proud to celebrate local volunteers across West Virginia by 
sponsoring the Jefferson Awards program.  Partnering with local TV station, WDTV, 
Antero Midstream identifies volunteers through community nominations, highlights 
their stories and presents them with a medallion on-air to honor their service.
Jefferson Award recipients like Sherri James are truly changing lives in their 
communities. Sherri saw a need for free and safe family activities for low-income 
families in Harrison County and acted on it. Despite working full-time and caring 
for her family, Sherri was able to partner with her local board of education and organize a group of volunteers to 
establish activities at her community center.
Community activities have included a STEAM Club, adult and children’s book club, family movie nights, children’s 
yoga and adult game night. Prior to her involvement with the community center, Sherri organized neighborhood 
watch groups, Christian groups and began grant writing to assist these organizations in obtaining the funding they 
needed to succeed.VOLUNTEERISM
We encourage our employees to volunteer to 
further their sense of belonging in our communities 
and to lend their talents to impactful organizations. 
On an annual basis, Antero Midstream employees volunteer hundreds of hours to community projects and worthy 
causes. In addition to the personal involvement of our employees, we also host a companywide volunteer week each 
year. For this initiative, employees choose one or two projects that would most benefit from Antero Midstream 
resources (volunteer, funding and supplies) and they act to create tangible change.
In 2020, despite the limitations of the 
pandemic, our employees volunteered 
nearly 750 hours within our communities
Ohio River Sweep
Antero Midstream continues 
to provide both financial 
support and employee 
volunteering to this very 
important annual event to 
remove debris and litter 
along the Ohio River.Sleep in Heavenly Peace
Employees from our Bridgeport 
office participated in a team bed 
building project because all children 
deserve a safe and comfortable 
place to lay their heads. The Antero 
Midstream team built over 40 beds 
for West Virginia families.Project Firewood
During the construction phase of 
our operations, we are occasionally 
required to clear trees from our job 
sites. Antero Midstream partners with 
local vendors to repurpose the cleared 
trees into free firewood that we deliver 
to homes and businesses at no charge.
2020 ESG REPORT 352020 ESG REPORT36
WORKPLACE CULTURE
Our company culture is foundational to how we operate every day. Antero Midstream is a company with an 
entrepreneurial focus and emphasis on efficiency. Our intentional work environment sets the tone for daily decision-
making, employee engagement and partnership with our stakeholders. 
At the core of our culture is collaboration and hard work. Despite our growth, we continue to maintain the feel of a 
smaller company by emphasizing relationships, solving problems together and working as a team. Leadership drives 
this culture, emphasizing employee ownership and giving everyone opportunities to provide value and raise new 
ideas. It’s easy to make a difference at Antero Midstream, and employees are celebrated for their contributions.
522
full-time employees
As of December 31, 2020  
Figures represent a shared AR and AM workforce40%
corporate76%
male60%
field24%
female
4  years, 11   months
Average employee tenure
2020 ESG REPORT 366.3%
Voluntary turnover rateWORKFORCE AT-A-GLANCE2020 ESG REPORT37
RETENTION 
AND RECRUITING
In line with our collaborative culture, our Human Resources (HR) team thoughtfully designs and updates our 
programs, policies and protocol for the benefit of our employees. We believe that healthy and happy employees bring 
innovation, productivity and commitment to our team. T aking care of employees is more than just good for business, 
it’s a way for us to show our appreciation for the hard work and dedication of our team.  
COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS
We invest in our workforce by offering 
competitive salaries, wages and benefits. T o 
foster a stronger sense of ownership and 
align the interests of our personnel with 
shareholders, we provide long-term incentive 
programs that include restricted stock units, 
performance share units and cash awards. 
Additionally, we offer bonuses based on 
individual and company performance.
Our benefits are both competitive and 
comprehensive, and we actively encourage our 
employees to take advantage of our offerings. Through dedicated communications and access to our team of benefits 
experts, we encourage employees to leverage our benefits to their fullest advantage. 
• Comprehensive health insurance, including vision and dental (no increase in employee premiums in 15+ years)
• Employee Health Savings Accounts, including company contributions
• 401(k) retirement savings plan with company matching and immediate vesting
• Competitive paid time off and sick leave programs
• Paid maternity and paternity leave
• Employee assistance program
• Short-term and long-term disability coverage
• Subsidized gym memberships
A NEW APPROACH TO THE WORK SCHEDULE
T o further support employee work-life balance, we initiated a pilot program where employees are given a set number 
of hours from which they can work from home. Employees have the flexibility to choose when they would like to 
work from home, assuming they do not have any meetings that require in-person participation. The work-from-home 
hours act like a bank, where employees credit their total when they work outside of the office. 
If the pilot is successful during the fall of 2021, Antero Midstream will consider permanent adoption of the work 
structure and employees may be given an increased number of remote-work hours. We regularly review our benefits to help 
ensure we’re best meeting the needs of 
our employees. In 2021, we extended our 
benefits package to include Dependent Care 
Flexible Spending Accounts allowing our 
employees to set aside pre-tax dollars to pay 
for eligible dependent care expenses. 2020 ESG REPORT38
PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT  
AND INTERNAL PROMOTION
As employees grow their careers at Antero Midstream, we want them to feel ownership in their performance and 
experience clear communication about their progress. Through annual performance reviews, both managers and 
individual contributors have the opportunity for formalized feedback and to discuss career next steps. This format 
also allows time to recognize employee successes — contributions our managers and VPs also celebrate throughout 
the year at weekly safety meetings and other regular team get togethers. 
T o further maximize our employees’ opportunities at Antero Midstream, we are creating an internal career center 
so that team members can review all available job postings in one place. The internal career center will provide the 
details of each job position and allow employees to apply through the career center page. Hosting this center will also 
provide our HR team with greater data analytics about employee interest in certain positions. 
RECRUITING AND NEW HIRES
We are very deliberate in our hiring process, balancing the need to move quickly to fill a job with a thoughtful approach 
to finding the right person for the position. Our first step is ensuring we understand the specific needs of the position 
and drafting the job description that accurately meets the necessary requirements. We also consider the personality 
of the team and the career progression of the position before accepting resumes and interviewing candidates.
Once an offer is accepted, we begin our onboarding process. Members of our HR team lead an onboarding program 
on an employee’s first day, discussing benefits information and completing paperwork. They also review our Code of 
Conduct so employees understand Antero’s expectations and standards from day one. It is our goal that onboarding 
would be both thorough and consistent to help ensure every employee has a smooth transition to joining the  
Antero Midstream team. 
2020 ESG REPORT 382020 ESG REPORT39
DIVERSITY AND 
INCLUSION COMMITMENT
Antero Midstream recognizes the importance of supporting and promoting diversity within our workplace and 
throughout our supply chain. We also understand that we must lay the groundwork before we can make significant 
strides toward increasing our diversity efforts.
We are committed to: 
• Setting consistent metrics for accountability and to measure our diversity progress
• Adding diversity commitments in our existing policies as building blocks for future action
• Identifying leaders to engage in a more formal diversity program at Antero Midstream
Our HR and ESG teams are partnering together to lead our diversity and inclusion efforts and ensure 
continuous improvement. 
In 2020, we adopted a Diversity and Inclusion policy that explicitly states the value our company places on both 
employee diversity and Board diversity. It also details the actions we will take to support diversity at all levels of  
our organization. The Board regularly reviews the company’s approach to diversity to confirm that it is functioning 
effectively.
Employee diversity:  We are committed to building a culture where diversity and inclusion are core 
philosophies across our operations. We will make opportunities for development and progress available to all 
employees so their talents can be fully developed to maximize success both as a company and as individuals. In 
line with our commitments to equal employment opportunity and diversity and inclusion, we expect recruiters 
operating on our behalf to provide us with a diverse pool of candidates. Our hiring process considers the value 
of diversity when reviewing potential new hires. 
Board diversity:  The Board believes that diverse membership with varying perspectives and breadth of 
experience is an important attribute of a well-functioning Board, and that having diverse thought and opinions 
at all levels of an organization results in better decision-making. During the Board’s annual composition review, 
the Nominating Committee considers the benefits of diversity and will continue to seek out diverse candidates 
to fill Board vacancies.
2020 ESG REPORT 392020 ESG REPORT40
Our focus on health, safety, security and the 
preservation of the environment (HSSE) puts 
people and our communities first. We maintain our 
reputation as a safe and environmentally responsible 
operator through continuous emphasis on our HSSE 
performance and by setting a goal of Zero incidents, 
Zero harm and Zero compromise. 
Antero’s culture of valuing safety starts at the top of our organization. Our CEO, CFO and Chief Administrative 
Officer, along with senior corporate and field staff members, meet weekly to review HSSE incidents, incident rates 
and safety initiatives. This leadership team closely monitors our safety performance, and provides feedback on health 
and safety initiatives to drive improvements to our evolving safety work practices. 
OUR SAFETY COMMITMENTS
Our safety initiatives reinforce our culture of HSSE excellence throughout the company and positively influence our 
contractor community. Through these well-developed and thoughtful processes, we:
• Conduct our business in compliance with applicable HSSE laws, rules, and regulations 
• Expect every employee and contractor to share our values and commitment to Zero incidents, Zero Harm and 
Zero compromise 
• Proactively work and operate to protect our people, the community, the environment, and our assets 
• Empower employees to speak up about safety, security, and environmental concerns, and take responsibility for 
their actions through our Stop Work Authority program 
• Sponsor emergency preparedness programs and conduct regular contractor audits to assess our performance 
• Implement and monitor continual improvement workflows necessary to create quantifiable, resilient  
HSSE programs 
• Invest in HSSE training and coaching, promoting risk assessments and encouraging HSSE leadership 
With determined goals, strategic programs and accountability across the organization, Antero’s safety performance 
is consistently strong. Nonetheless, Antero Midstream continuously drives its employees and contractors to hit our 
goal of “zero. ”
HEALTH 
AND SAFETY
2020 ESG REPORT41
SAFETY FIRST
Foundational to Antero’s safety culture is identifying and 
assessing risk, recognizing hazards and having the programs  
and processes in place to mitigate these safety concerns. 
SAFETY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
We utilize the Antero Midstream Safety Management System (SMS) to establish requirements for managing health 
and safety risks. Heavily influenced by the Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series 4500, our SMS 
increases visibility of risks and assists in decision-making.  The SMS contains resources for both employees and 
contractors; both groups must meet Antero’s minimum expectations in adopting and adhering to the SMS. 
ANTERO MIDSTREAM SAFETY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM COMPONENTSAntero Midstream’s HSSE 
representatives are available 24/7 
to support all facets of operations, 
monitoring safety performance 
and encouraging safe actions
2020 ESG REPORT 41Antero’s culture embraces and values visible safety leadership. There is an uncompromising 
commitment to safety at the center of everything we do. Consistent and quality operations 
begin with promoting safe work practices and we will never sacrifice team or community 
safety for operational benefit. From prioritizing safety at the Board and executive levels to 
empowering employees to make safe decisions and exercise stop work authority whenever 
necessary, we can achieve zero incidents, zero harm, zero compromise.    
- Troy Roach, Vice President of HSSE
Without an 
employee lost 
time incident 6 years• Safety Leadership, Compliance and Commitment 
• Organization, Roles and Responsibilities 
• Risk and Hazard Assessment / Risk Registers 
• Incident Reporting and Investigation 
• Training and Competency 
• Safety Manual and Safe Work Practices / Guides 
• Security and Sustainability• Emergency Preparedness and Planning 
• Safety Communications 
• Occupational Health and Wellness 
• Contractor Safety Management 
• Business Continuity and Resiliency 
• Performance Measurement and Evaluation 2020 ESG REPORT42
SAFETY ANCHORS
An extension of our SMS, the Antero Midstream Safety Anchors provide a practical approach to safety on our sites. 
The Safety Anchors focus on the most high-risk activities within the oil and gas industry. These life-saving anchors are 
intended to help our workers identify risks or hazards, ensure controls are in place and promote safe decision-making.
SAFETY LEADERSHIP
In 2020, we enhanced our safety leadership presence by increasing supervisor and manager visits to field locations 
to observe safe behaviors and procedures. We also expanded our reporting through third-party reporting systems 
and in-vehicle monitoring systems. Key leaders, supervisors and managers also engaged more directly in weekly 
HSSE reviews to provide immediate feedback prior to staff operational meetings. 
BEHAVIOR-BASED SAFETY PROGRAM
At every level of our organization, we seek to positively influence and 
encourage decision-making and behaviors that promote safe outcomes and 
prevent incidents or injuries before they occur.
Our behavior-based safety program, T ake 5, asks employees and contractors to take five minutes on any Antero 
Midstream owned, operated, or leased worksite to confirm that job hazards and risks are mitigated and controlled 
before work begins.
2020 ESG REPORT 42IDENTIFY WORK BEING PERFORMED
PERFORM A TAKE 5 SAFETY REVIEW
COACH ON POTENTIAL HAZARDS AND RISK MITIGATION
AGREE ON CORRECTIVE ACTIONS OR PREVENTIVE ACTIONS
UPDATE JOB SAFETY ANAL YSIS DOCUMENT IF NEEDEDCONFINED SPACE
LINE OF FIRE
GROUND DISTURBANCE
HOT WORKDRIVING
LIFTING OPERATION
ENERGY ISOLATION
WORKING AT HEIGHTS2020 ESG REPORT43
SAFETY PERFORMANCE 
AND IMPROVEMENT
Through our SMS we track, trend and analyze our employee and contractor HSSE performance metrics. We use 
leading and lagging indicators — including OSHA total recordable incident rates (TRIR) and lost time incidents (LTI), 
fatalities and high potential near misses — to identify opportunities for improvement and prevent reoccurrence. Our 
annual performance program is aligned with our HSSE performance, which further demonstrates our commitment.
2020 HSSE T argets 2020 HSSE T argets Met
Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) (employees + contractors) (below 0.072)
T otal Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) (employee + contractor) (below 0.475)
Zero environmental Notice of Violations (NOVs) resulting in fines exceeding 
$100,000
Number of reportable spills – (15% reduction from 2019)
Safe days worked consecutive days with zero qualifying events - (41)  MEASURING OUR 
PERFORMANCEMONITORING OUR 
PERFORMANCEEVALUATING FOR 
COMPLIANCE
12 month-rolling LTIR and TRIR
Safe days worked 
Days since last recordable
Quality of JSAs
Environmental checks 
Stop Work Authority momentsHSSE tours 
Training efforts 
On-site orientations 
HSSE meetingsInternal audits 
Management reviews
1.4
1.2
1.0
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0.0
Employee and Contractor Loss Time Incident Rate (LTIR)2016 2017 2018 2019 20200.00.469
Employee and Contractor T otal Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)SAFETY PERFORMANCE METRICS2020 ESG REPORT44
RISK ASSESSMENT AND HAZARD RECOGNITION
Risk assessments, hazard recognition programs and risk registers are critical components of the Antero Midstream 
SMS. During an assessment, Antero Midstream employees utilize a proprietary matrix to define risk level based 
on probability and severity consequence. This is an effective process to increase visibility of risks and assist 
management decision-making. The risk assessment process includes all levels of leadership — from project managers 
to Senior Vice Presidents. If a project requires a management of change (MOC) review and approval, the decision 
process may include the CEO. 
Our risk register is a central source of information cataloging the hazards specific to each phase of operation and their 
established risk mitigation controls from a safety perspective. It also notes the severity of each risk, as well as the 
probability rating and reasoning. For each hazard, we develop a preventive procedure focused on lowering risk levels. 
Our hazard and risk identification process includes four key programs:
JOB SAFETY ANAL YSIS
A Job Safety Analysis (JSA) must be completed and documented prior to the start of work on an Antero 
Midstream location. JSAs document every job task and each potential related hazard for both awareness and 
to ensure adequate controls are in place. Antero Midstream expects each worker involved in a task, whether an 
employee or a contractor, to be fully briefed on related hazards and sign the related JSA. 
STOP WORK AUTHORITY
Also key to Antero’s risk assessment and hazard 
recognition program is Stop Work Authority 
(SWA). SWA is the responsibility and authority 
given to every worker on an Antero Midstream 
location to stop or slow work if unsafe conditions 
or environmental hazards exist. Significant SWAs 
are documented in our third-party reporting 
system for key learning and process improvements.
INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE
We support occupational health through our Industrial Hygiene program which identifies health risks related 
to work activity and includes practices to keep our employees safe. An example includes hearing protection 
requirements for noise and hearing conservation based on site conditions.
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH SURVEILLANCE PROGRAM 
We implement a thorough Occupational Health Surveillance Program to evaluate exposure impacts on Antero 
Midstream employees’ and contractors’ health when such surveillance programs become necessary. In this 
process, Antero Midstream also conducts thorough personal protective equipment (PPE) assessments and 
incorporates state-of-the-art PPE as needed during the surveillance process; all to ensure full compliance 
worker protections regarding exposure limitations. STOP
CORRECT RESUME FOLLOW-UPNOTIFY INVESTIGATE
Antero Midstream expects any identified risk or hazard to be mitigated to a level as low as reasonably practical 
before beginning or resuming work. We maintain a library of safe work practices to guide our contractors and service 
providers on how to mitigate any identified unsafe conditions. We update these documents as laws and regulatory 
requirements evolve.2020 ESG REPORT45
DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE
Antero Midstream is a drug- and alcohol-free workplace. T o support this commitment, we conduct random 
drug screenings on 25 to 50% of employees who perform work on pipeline and liquefied natural gas facilities 
on a yearly basis. The company screens safety-sensitive employees before their first day of employment, after 
an incident or upon reasonable suspicion. In addition, Antero Midstream may assess contractors’ written 
drug and alcohol programs to ensure compliance with Antero Midstream standards for testing frequency, 
technique and comprehensiveness.INCIDENT REPORTING, ANAL YSIS 
AND OPERATIONAL IMPROVEMENT
All employees and contractors are required to report HSSE-related incidents and observations through a third-party 
reporting system. Within Antero’s incident reporting system, we collect data, manage investigations and record 
other related information about incidents that occur on our sites. We also track and evaluate ‘near misses’ — those 
events that did not result in injury, illness or damage, but had the potential to do so.
All incidents and near misses are categorized using Antero’s HSSE risk matrix and investigated to determine root 
causes and systemic trends. After investigation, we act to reduce or eliminate factors that led to the incident or near 
miss and implement changes to prevent reoccurrence. 
Using a RACI (responsible, accountable, consulted, informed) process, we assign and endeavor to track completion of 
corrective actions. We also create HSSE alerts to communicate the incident and findings to our operational groups to 
improve awareness, and when appropriate, to other industry parties, regulatory agencies and first responders. 
These processes apply to employee or contractor-related incidents, with the exception that the contracting company 
completes the investigation and identifies the root cause and corrective action and then provides a final report. 
Antero Midstream then verifies completion of all corrective actions. Diana Hoff, Senior Vice President – Operations2020 ESG REPORT46
SAFETY TRAINING 
AND RECOGNITION
We encourage safe behaviors by developing our employees’ knowledge, skills and awareness of safety-related 
issues. Safety training starts at the beginning of employment and continues throughout an employee’s career. 
Each employee is assigned required training according to his or her role and responsibilities and training is tracked 
through our learning management system.    
 
Antero Midstream also provides on-site HSSE orientations for all employees and contractors who plan to visit an 
Antero Midstream field location. The on-site orientation describes Antero’s HSSE expectations, covering topics such 
as general PPE requirements, training requirements, driving on-site, JSAs and SWA. Employees may not perform 
certain tasks without this required safety training.
MOTOR VEHICLE AND 
DRIVING SAFETY
Every Antero Midstream vehicle operator must undergo 
an annual Department of Motor Vehicle background 
check and refresher training for safe vehicle operation. All 
Antero Midstream vehicles are equipped with basic safety 
equipment and a state of the art in-vehicle monitoring 
system. This system provides developmental real time 
feedback to the driver in the form of in-cab alerts for 
unsafe behavior. Supervisors are then provided with a 
detailed driving performance report each week to identify 
any behavioral trends which need improvement and 
supporting data to recognize safe driving practices.
2020 ESG REPORT 46IDENTIFY 
TRAINING NEEDS
SCHEDULE 
TRAININGDESIGN 
TRAINING
DELIVER 
TRAININGPRODUCE AND 
CONTROL MATERIALS
MAINTAIN 
RECORDSSELECT OR QUALIFY 
COMPETENT TRAINERS
MONITOR AND 
REVIEW TRAINING2020 ESG REPORT47
TRAINING AND SUPERVISING SHORT SERVICE EMPLOYEES
Short Service Employees (SSEs) — those with less than six months experience in the oil and gas industry or in certain 
positions — require specific training and supervision to help prevent injury or incident. 
At Antero Midstream, SSEs:
• Wear a green, high-visibility hard hat as identification
• Should never work alone
• Must be mentored throughout their initial six months of experience
• Are evaluated prior to graduating from the SSE program
An SSE can either be an Antero Midstream employee or a contractor. 
SSEs should only make up 20% of a team, meaning a crew of five should 
only have one SSE to ensure an appropriate level of experience.
HSSE CHALLENGE COIN
Receiving an Antero Midstream HSSE challenge coin is recognition that 
an employee or contractor went above and beyond in the area of HSSE, 
protecting our people, communities and assets. 
There are three opportunities for recognition: peer to peer, supervisory 
and executive level. Individuals nominate candidates through HSSE 
team members and an Antero Midstream committee determines if the 
nomination qualifies for a challenge coin. Challenge coins are issued 
throughout the calendar year while supervisor coins are issued quarterly 
as part of the quarterly incident review meeting. Executive coins are voted 
on by the Executive Leadership team at the annual HSSE planning meeting 
and are presented annually by the CEO, Chief Financial Officer or Chief 
Administrative Officer.
2020 ESG REPORT 47
2020 ESG REPORT48
EMERGENCY 
PREPAREDNESS
Incident prevention is always our first goal, but we also prepare for potential emergencies. Using the U.S. 
Department of Homeland Security’s National Incident Management System (NIMS) as a guide, we developed a 
comprehensive approach to incident management. Led by our Crisis and Field Incident Management T eams (IMT), 
this approach continues to be at the forefront of emergency best  management practices. 
Designed by NIMS, our Incident Command System (ICS) model encourages rapid, flexible and efficient response 
to incidents. The ICS is modular and scalable, allowing the response to deescalate or escalate uniformly during an 
incident without loss of command. It also acts as a central reporting system to gather key data to be distributed to 
internal stakeholders aiding in incident response and closure.
1 2 3 4 5 6
PREVENTION MITIGATION PREPAREDNESS RESPONSE RECOVERY RESUMPTION
READY FOR AN EMERGENCY
INCIDENT COMMAND SYSTEM: Provides a consistent, flexible and scalable framework 
so government and companies can work together to manage incidents cohesively
EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN: Controls and minimizes impacts to people, the 
environment and our assets through strategic planning and readiness
EMERGENCY ACTION PLANS: Establishes general guidelines for all reasonable, 
foreseeable workplace emergencies by office location
GEOGRAPHIC RESPONSE PLANS: Uses map-based planning documents as a tool to guide 
first responders; most effective for containment and recovery efforts in the event of a spill
SITE SPECIFIC INFORMATION: Used in planning processes to better understand site-
specific nuances that could impact emergency response efforts2020 ESG REPORT49
Antero’s IMTs include a Crisis Commander of Corporate Activities (CC), an Incident Commander of Field Activities 
(IC), Command Staff and General Staff. The CC and IC are responsible for the overall management of the response, 
including the coordination of Command and General Staff activities. The Command Staff includes the Public 
Information Officer, Safety Officer, Legal Officer, Liaison Officer and Security, Information, and Intelligence Officer.
Our IMTs rely on a comprehensive notification system that allows mass communication with both employees and 
external stakeholders. This third-party, web-based system offers immediate and simultaneous communication using 
both wired and wireless communication devices. It also enables the recipient to send an immediate reply to resolve 
an issue or convey a new status condition. 
In addition to having an internal emergency response plan in place, we meet regularly with local emergency 
management agencies (EMAs) to discuss preparedness, synergize plans and conduct drills. These meetings help 
ensure cohesion with first responders and promote their safety during an emergency. We also equip EMAs with 
donated equipment and sponsor the Emergency Management Association of Ohio spring conference which 
promotes collaboration among responders and other partners. 
A SECURE SITE IS A SAFE SITE 
In addition to operational safety risk and hazards, we protect our employees, partners and assets from crime on our 
sites. Each of our security personnel are former law enforcement officers with vast experience and expertise. 
Our field security personnel are also certified T errorism Liaison Officers (TLO) through the West Virginia Intelligence 
Fusion Center. A TLO is a U.S. citizen trained to report suspicious activity observed during the course of their normal 
occupation as part of the U.S. War on T error. Our security personnel have strong relationships with federal, state and 
local first responders for a joint approach to keeping our communities and homeland safe.
2020 ESG REPORT 49
Through our membership in 
the Gas and Oil Association of 
West Virginia, we initiated a 
Security and Safety committee 
— a valuable collaboration 
of industry peers sharing 
information and education 
on mitigation and emergency 
response related to security 
and crime-related matters2020 ESG REPORT50
CONTRACTOR 
SAFETY MANAGEMENT
Contractors and suppliers are expected to maintain our high safety 
standards when working on any Antero Midstream site. This means 
providing a workplace free of hazards, violence, discrimination, inhumane 
treatment and abuse, and providing employees with appropriate PPE  
and training. 
Our Contractor Safety Management Program helps ensure that work 
done on behalf of Antero Midstream meets at least our minimum HSSE 
standards. We collaborate with a leading third-party data management 
service to collect and evaluate health and safety information from 
our contractors. We then apply our unique risk profile and grading 
specifications to the data to review contractor performance against 
Antero’s expectations. 
Per master agreements, each contractor and service provider must be fully compliant with their own JSA, SWA, risk, 
hazard mitigation and incident management programs and have policies in place to ensure their compliance with 
relevant health and safety laws prior to performing work for Antero Midstream. Suppliers are expected to follow our 
Supplier Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which further details our HSSE expectations. Antero Midstream may 
take prompt action against any supplier who violates this code, including termination of supplier contracts or other 
business transactions. Antero Midstream reserves the right to request affirmation from suppliers of their compliance 
with this code. 
CONTRACTOR PROGRAM REVIEWS 
Antero Midstream strives for continuous improvement of our Contractor Safety Management program through 
regular review, evaluation and implementation of industry best practices. Before qualifying an on-site contractor, 
we ensure a thorough review of the company’s written safety and training programs and leading and lagging HSSE 
performance indicators. A part of that process is a review of the contractor’s Department of Transportation (DOT) 
programs to assess compliance with regulatory requirements. Once approved, we monitor the contractor’s on-site 
performance and adherence to regulations and site-specific procedures. We partner with our third-party contract 
management administrator to conduct annual audits and/or reviews of all contractor policies and procedures.
SAFETY IMPROVEMENT PLANS  
Antero Midstream partners with our insurance broker to provide select contractors with a complete SMS review. 
Assessment results provide companies with detailed opportunities for improvement. In past assessments, our broker 
has recommended changes to the allocation of resources, goals or targets, and actions to improve performance.
2020 ESG REPORT51
 2020 ESG REPORT 512020 ESG REPORT52
ENVIRONMENT
We believe safety and 
environmental stewardship 
are intrinsically linked. Our HSSE 
goal of Zero incidents, Zero harm 
and Zero compromise empowers 
every employee to make the safest 
decisions to protect our people 
and the planet. Our dedicated staff 
of environmental professionals 
manage our HSSE programs and are 
committed to Antero Midstream’s 
performance as a safe and 
sustainable energy company.
We view our operations — and our environmental impact — holistically. Through innovation, technology and shared 
learnings across Antero Midstream sites, we aim to minimize our environmental footprint while increasing our 
efficiency. Use of natural gas emits less carbon dioxide when compared to other fossil fuel energy sources. It’s our 
commitment to produce this lower-carbon fossil fuel with continuous improvement for our environmental performance 
to support the transition to a low-carbon economy and meet the objectives outlines in our 2025 ESG goals.
OUR ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENTS
Stewardship of the environment is a fundamental value in our 
overall business strategy. We strive to: 
• Proactively manage environmental risks and hazards
• Achieve or exceed regulatory compliance to protect and respect 
the communities and resources where we operate 
• Minimize our impacts on the environment and natural resources wherever feasible 
• Improve overall performance by utilizing a plan-do-check-act model, core to our environmental management system 
• Minimize waste at the source and, when generated, to handle such waste in an environmentally safe and  
compliant manner 
• Actively work with the regulatory agencies, industry trade associations, and the localities where we operate, to 
achieve beneficial environmental outcomesAntero Midstream has a very 
low methane leak loss rate 
when compared to peers
Antero Midstream’s methane leak loss rate, which is 
significantly lower than the sector average, is the result 
of relentless focus on system integrity and thoughtful 
implementation of technological innovations by our 
dedicated employees.  Safely and responsibly transporting 
our products and operating in an environmentally 
conscience manner are our highest priorities.
- Patrick Ash, Senior Vice President - Reserves, 
Planning and Midstream2020 ESG REPORT53
MANAGING 
ENVIRONMENTAL RISK
Antero Midstream is committed to the development and continuous improvement of an Environmental Management 
System (EMS) that facilitates the management of environmental risks and ensures the achievement of regulatory 
compliance. Antero’s EMS system is based on the Plan, Do, Check, Act (PDCA) framework that demonstrates an 
iterative process to achieve continual improvement applicable to the management system. 
Antero’s EMS program is supported by Antero Midstream leadership and compliments the company’s safety 
management system. The purpose of the EMS is to protect our workforce, communities and the environment while 
enhancing Antero’s environmental performance.
1. Environmental Leadership, Compliance  
and Commitment  
2. Organization, Roles and Responsibilities  
3. Risk and Hazard Management  
4. Incident Reporting and Investigation  
5. Training Plan  
6. Management of Change7. Document Management  
8. Emergency Preparedness and Planning  
9. Communication Plan  
10. Environmental Compliance Program 
11. Standard Operating Procedures and 
Guidance Documents  
12. Performance Management & Evaluation
CONTINUOUS 
IMPROVEMENTACT
Implement the 
best solution
CHECK
Study resultsPLAN
Identify your 
problems
DO
T est potential 
solutionsAs part of Antero’s PDCA process, we regularly 
evolve programs and initiatives of our EMS for 
continuous improvement. This includes measuring 
our overall environmental performance and 
providing regular updates to management on our 
environmental and regulatory targets.2020 ESG REPORT54
ASSESSING RISK AND HAZARDS  
Key to our risk management program is cataloging risks and hazards in our risk register. After identifying risks 
throughout our organization, we use our proprietary risk matrix to quantify both the risks and their impacts based on 
the probability and the severity of the consequence. This risk assessment exercise helps to increase the visibility of 
risks and assists management in decision-making. 
RISK MITIGATION PROGRAMS
In addition to recognizing risks, we proactively mitigate risks through a number of programs. 
Employee training:  We conduct extensive training on compliance and environmental stewardship across 
our operations and according to employee area of expertise. Our HSSE team often conducts these trainings, 
providing regular updates to employees and contractors at tailgate, weekly, monthly and annual meetings. 
Incident learning:  After reporting and tracking our environmental and near-miss incidents, we identify factors 
that contributed to the incidents and develop corrective and preventive action plans. We also track regulatory 
agency interaction and assess the risks and magnitude of potential liabilities arising from our operations based 
on an analysis of our history of interactions with regulators. This information is reviewed by leadership at least 
quarterly in line with other HSSE performance metrics. 
Emergency preparedness:  Our HSSE teams work collaboratively on emergency preparedness and planning, 
utilizing the same processes and procedures identified in our safety section. Often our Environment team 
members are first to respond to spills and releases and implement both their safety and environmental 
protection training. T o further prepare, we conduct and participate in emergency response scenario drills with 
regulatory agencies, local emergency responders and other operators. 
Contractor compliance: Throughout a contractor’s work with Antero Midstream, we verify that any work 
performed meets or exceeds our minimum HSSE standards. We collaborate with a third-party data management 
service to collect and evaluate compliance information for our contractors, applying our risk profile and grading 
to evaluate performance. We collaborate with a third-party data management service to collect and evaluate 
information regarding our contractors’ compliance with applicable laws and regulations and certain key 
performance indicators for compliance with Antero’s Supplier Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
2020 ESG REPORT 542020 ESG REPORT55
PROTECTING BIODIVERSITY, 
NATURAL AND CULTURAL 
RESOURCES
We work to integrate the management of biodiversity and resource protection throughout our project development 
and operational lifecycle. We assess and manage environmental risks and work to reduce impacts in accordance with 
regulatory requirements and through the implementation of one or  more protection approaches.
BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION APPROACHES
MITIGATION
We develop and implement projects and practices to mitigate unavoidable impacts after appropriate avoidance, 
minimization, and restoration measures have been applied
2020 ESG REPORT 55AVOIDANCE
We evaluate proposed project scopes to identify biodiversity risks, including protected species or sensitive 
ecosystems. We also survey areas with probability for cultural resources. Should a natural or cultural resource 
be identified, we work with the stakeholders and project design and construction teams to consider alternative 
locations, scope and timing of project construction to avoid impacts.
MINIMIZATION
After the site is identified, if relevant, we conduct geotechnical surveys to use in design and construction planning 
to reduce slope failure risk and address potential erosion concerns. T o the extent possible, we work to design 
projects to reduce surface impacts on biologically diverse, protected or other sensitive areas. 
RESTORATION
During planning and post-construction, we work with stakeholders to conduct on-site land restoration,  
to the extent possible, to reestablish an ecosystem’s composition, structure and function to a healthy state2020 ESG REPORT56
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
When we begin a project, four actions are foundational to our planning and development process. 
Understanding and complying with laws and 
regulations, including conducting baseline studies 
and impact assessments if needed
Training employees on environmental protection 
and providing information on species or habitat 
sensitivities specific to the project
Engaging with stakeholders on biodiversity issues
Implementing industry best practices and lessons learned
Performing an extensive desktop analysis in the beginning stages allows us early identification of any environmental 
sensitivities within the project’s proposed limits of disturbance (LOD). Our analysis includes a checklist of items to 
consider and review, including regulations and guidance from the:Antero Midstream evaluates 
the impacts of projects in critical 
habitats or other areas with 
recognized high biodiversity value 
and high conservation value areas
• County floodplain ordinances
• Ohio Department of Natural Resources
• Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
• U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
• U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
• U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS)  • West Virginia and Ohio State Historic 
Preservation Office (SHPO)
• West Virginia Department of Environmental 
Protection (WVDEP)
• West Virginia Division of Natural Resources  
(WV DNR)
• West Virginia DNR Office of Land and Streams
For linear projects, we evaluate an expanded area of interest from the LOD — 150 feet in both directions from the 
outer limits of disturbance. For non-linear project, we consider 150 feet from the outer limits of disturbance. During 
this analysis, we consider and evaluate a number of environmental sensitivities.
 DESKTOP ANAL YSIS CHECKLIST
Following desktop analysis, and with landowner permission, we conduct a field assessment to investigate any 
identified resources. During this assessment, a Qualified Wetland Professional (and, if applicable, a Protected 
Species and Habitat Specialist and Cultural Resources Specialist) conducts a comprehensive review of the proposed 
project area. Any findings are added to our internal environmental viewer and mapping system which allows us to 
better plan for future project construction in our operating areas. √ Known aquatic features and hydric soils 
 √ Threatened, endangered or otherwise protected 
species and their habitats 
 √ Probable cultural resources  √ Floodplains 
 √ Stormwater runoff 
 √ T otal maximum daily load watersheds 
 √ State protected waters2020 ESG REPORT57
CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
During construction and project development, if impact to an ecosystem or resource is unavoidable, we consult with 
other stakeholders as necessary. This strategy incorporates minimization, restoration and potential offsetting of the 
potential impacts. 
We also implement best management practices to support conservation, including:
• Stacking cut trees strategically to enhance wildlife habitat
• Flagging all aquatic features for easy identification
• Stabilizing and reseeding right of ways with seed mixes that provide habitat and food sources for wildlife 
PIPELINE PLANNING
Pipeline route selection process typically starts with a wide cor ridor of interest between two points. Data helps 
narrow the defined route until a final ‘right of way’ is determined. 
Antero Midstream’s project team reviews and considers a number of factors when determining the pipeline path, 
and the shortest route is not always the most suitable. Physical obstacles, environmental considerations and other 
factors may dictate routing to minimize impact.
• Access
• Constructability
• Cost
• Environmental impact• Land ownership
• Pipeline integrity
• Public safety  • Social, economic and 
technical environmental 
factors
• Regulatory requirementsPIPELINE ROUTE CONSIDERATIONS
Percentage of land owned, leased, and/
or operated near areas of protected 
conservation status or endangered 
species habitat (2020)Near Designated Areas (a) Inside Designated Areas (b)
T otal AM Acreage 31.50% 1.80%
T errestrial acreage disturbed (a) 2019 2020
T otal AM Acreage 10,157 10,328(a) Near includes company land within five kilometers of the boundary of a protected conservation area or endangered species habitat.
(b) Company land within the boundary of protected conservation area or endangered species habitat.
(a) The total acreage owned, leased and/or operated does not subtract any restoration conducted.  
We evaluated a number of data sets for this determination, including available mapping from USGS of protected 
areas and critical habitat, USFWS NWI and Threatened & Endangered Species Active Critical Habitat Report and the 
WV Watershed Resources Registry.2020 ESG REPORT58
HONORING CULTURAL RESOURCES
Antero Midstream treats cultural resources with respect and a commitment to preservation. If there is a federal 
nexus and we determine that cultural sites exist, or have the potential to exist within our project area, a third-party 
cultural expert performs a field survey. We then work with State History Preservation Officers to first avoid, and 
then minimize or offset impacts to cultural resources. 
Even absent a regulatory requirement to do so, Antero Midstream has taken steps to preserve cultural resources 
discovered as we pursue projects. We created an inadvertent discovery plan that details what to do if cultural 
resources are found during construction. The plan includes halting all work immediately, bringing in a cultural expert 
to assess any discoveries and consulting the SHPO if needed. 
At several sites, we have documented historic properties through local interviews, architectural drawings and 
written accounts. Artifacts found during Antero Midstream cultural surveys are documented and stakeholders  
are consulted.
2020 ESG REPORT 582020 ESG REPORT59
The availability of water resources is key to Antero Resources’ drilling and completion operations and, more 
importantly, critical to the communities where we operate. We are committed to reducing the need for fresh water 
resources, increasing our reuse and recycling of produced water and protecting water resources during  
our operations. 
According to the World Resources Institute (WRI) Aqueduct Water Risk Assessment for oil and Gas, Antero’s 
operations currently have an overall low to medium water risk. In areas like the Appalachian Basin, water is an 
abundant resource, but not one that our company takes for granted. 
Antero Midstream strives to be best in class when it comes to pollution prevention and stormwater management 
during all construction development activities. Our design process incorporates best engineering practices, 
applicable regulatory agency guidance, and may include best management practices (BMPs) in addition to standard 
erosion and sediment controls as measures to identify and protect sensitive features and water quality. For example, 
erosion and sediment controls are designed to withstand rain events greater than standard design requirements and 
we incorporate orange colored BMPs as an additional visual aid for protection of aquatic features or sensitive areas.
FRESH WATER USE
Specific to Antero Midstream, we use a limited amount of fresh water, primarily for construction activities and dust 
suppression on access roads. 
FRESH WATER INTENSITY
We calculate our fresh water intensity using the amount of 
fresh water withdrawn from sources, divided by the net volume 
of natural gas Antero Resources produced for the given year. 
Calculating water intensity is a more accurate way to compare 
fresh water use year-over-year and to account for any differences 
in yearly production.Antero Resources’ 2020 fresh 
water intensity rate decreased 
by over 73% due to our water 
recycling and reuse effortsW ATER PROTECTION 
AND CONSERV ATION2020 ESG REPORT60
WATER CONSERVATION PARTNERSHIP
Water management and conservation is a shared value across both Antero companies. Through a strategic 
partnership, Antero Midstream provides a reliable source of water to all active Antero Resources locations with a 
focus on safety and reducing our environmental footprint.
Antero Midstream maintains and operates one of the largest 
fresh water pipeline and impoundment networks in the 
country. By transporting water through pipelines, we reduce 
the number of water trucks traversing local roads — leading to 
safer roadways and preventing cumulative tailpipe emissions. 
Also, during seasonal dry periods, Antero’s fresh water 
impoundments provide an alternative source of fresh water 
to alleviate stress on local streams and reservoirs in these low 
flow times of the year. 
Operational improvements and recycling or reusing initiatives are reducing the amount of fresh water needed to 
conduct our operations. Antero Midstream blends, treats and recycles water at a variety of locations, including its 
Pioneer Water Facility, providing recycled produced water and flowback to Antero Resources for use in drilling and 
completions operations. Not only do these recycling efforts reduce fresh water use, but they limit the amount of 
water disposed via injection wells.
Our dedicated Water Control Room staff act as traffic control — monitoring, delivering and inspecting water 
resources — to efficiently manage water resources throughout the Appalachia Basin. Antero Midstream’s extensive 
water network includes 337 miles 
of fresh water pipelines and 37 
fresh water storage facilities
2020 ESG REPORT 60
of our fresh 
water used was 
transferred by pipeline (eliminating 
truck traffic and emissions)2020 ESG REPORT61
WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT
We also support Antero Resources by treating produced water for reuse in completions. Antero Midstream provides 
localized mobile blending facilities to treat and recycle produced water from Antero operations. The treated water is 
blended with fresh water and transported via trucks or pipeline infrastructure directly to Antero pad sites.
Antero Midstream operates a limited number of centralized impoundments for produced water storage when it 
cannot be immediately reused. These impoundments were built according to robust regulatory standards requiring 
a dual liner system with a leak detection layer and a network of groundwater monitoring wells, which are sampled 
quarterly. 
T o protect migratory birds, centralized produced water impoundments have fencing and bird netting installed as a 
best management practice.
By recycling or reusing produced water, we reduce the number of truck trips needed to dispose of the wastewater. 
of truck traffic were eliminated in 2020 
by using Antero Midstream's water 
delivery system instead of driving on 
community roads. As a result, we avoided 
approximately 14,000 metric tons of CO2e.
WASTEWATER DISPOSAL
When disposing of wastewater, Antero Midstream is in compliance with all regulations and industry best  
practices, including:
Not utilizing residuals or waste products from the company’s operations for purposes other than completions 
and brine generation
Not discharging produced water to the surface or waterways. All of Antero’s produced water is either treated 
for reuse, sent for disposal via underground injection wells, or sent for solidification and offsite disposal, thereby 
minimizing exposure to human and environmental receptors. 
Recovering hydrocarbons to the 
extent feasible and sending them 
to a used oil recycler for processing 
and reuseThe volume of wastewater recycled or 
reused by Antero Midstream for use 
in Antero Resources’ operations has 
increased by over 10 fold since 2017About
32
million miles2020 ESG REPORT62
WATER QUALITY AND PROTECTION
The protection of water quality within 
all areas of operation is of the utmost 
importance. For this reason, Antero 
has been testing water sources near 
our operations for more than a decade. 
Groundwater quality assessment occurs 
throughout the process of drilling and 
completions activity. 
Water samples are collected by third-
party environmental consultants and 
analyzed at state-certified laboratories 
against a list of parameters that exceed 
regulatory requirements. Sample results 
are shared with the landowners and state 
regulators and archived electronically by Antero. 
Our Antero Midstream Community Relations Hotline handles all complaints and concerns regarding water quality. 
Antero’s practice is to respond to all water concerns by phone within 24 hours.With landowner permission, Antero Midstream 
assesses domestic water wells, springs, ponds 
and streams within 150 feet from the centerline 
of buried waterlines and gas pipelines, a 300-foot 
radius of the waterline and gas pipeline bores, a 
1,000-foot radius of compressor stations and a 
2,000-foot radius of centralized impoundments 
and pits in both West Virginia and Ohio. This is 
not required by law, but is an important safeguard 
initiated and managed by the company.
2020 ESG REPORT 622020 ESG REPORT63
SPILL PREVENTION 
AND RESPONSE
T o achieve our goal of Zero incidents, Zero harm and Zero compromise — we must prevent spills from occurring. 
Our spill prevention efforts include Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) that set high standards for equipment 
function, secondary and tertiary containment systems and training for our team members.
Our SOPs are step-by-step instructions that carefully and consistently spell out guidelines for our routine 
operations. Specific to spill prevention, we offer SOPs on secondary containment dewatering, above ground storage 
tank procedures and sump management. 
Our Environmental and Regulatory teams manage our SOPs which are regularly reviewed and updated. Standard 
employee training reinforces our SOPs and encourages employees to speak up about environmental concerns 
through our Stop Work Authority program.
CONTAINMENT  
Proper containment of liquids is also an important defense against spills. We utilize secondary and tertiary 
containment systems for multiple layers of protection.
• Polyethylene liners for water blending and 
recycling activities
• Lined secondary containments for storage tanks 
and equipment
• Double-walled tanks• Catchments at load out areas
• Fluid recovery systems for pigging operations
• Skid-mounted compressors with skids capable 
of catching potential spillsSPILL CONTAINMENT SYSTEMS
For continuous improvement, we are studying critical environmental risk activities that may lead to spills — including 
high-rate fluid transfers, blending operations, produced water collection and pigging operations — and recommending 
enhanced procedures and the possible adoption of new or improved liner systems for additional protection.2020 ESG REPORT64
SPILL RESPONSE AND MANAGEMENT
In the event of an incident, Antero’s spill response program includes a vast network of qualified and vetted on-call 
spill response contractors and a robust 24/7 internal incident response program.
Employee, community and environmental safety comes first when responding to a spill. After determining the source 
and type of the spill, we initiate corrective actions:  
• Safely isolating and controlling the source of the spill
• Containing spilled material to prevent migration
• Initiating remediation activities such as removal or treatment of contaminated material
• Analytical testing of soil/water, when necessary, to verify completion of spill remediation
• Reporting spills, when necessary, to appropriate regulatory agencies
• Disposal of contaminated materials in accordance with local, state and federal regulations
• Internal documentation of incidents in web-based programs for reporting and metric trending
Antero Midstream creates Emergency Response Plans to streamline interactions with first responders and 
emergency services during large-scale incidents. These plans are managed by our Crisis and Field Incident 
Management T eams (IMT) and based on the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s National Incident Management 
System (NIMS) for more consistent response integration across agencies.
Spills are reported to regulatory agencies as required and resolved accordingly to regulatory approval.  
We track all regulatory agency citations to ensure all issues are remediated and resolved consistent with  
regulatory requirements. 
TRACKING SPILLS
Regardless of size or scale, we track and rank spills according to their actual and potential risk to the environment. 
Based on this ranking and the individual spill circumstances, we design and implement corrective actions and share 
lessons learned with the Antero Midstream team.
LEARNING FROM INCIDENTS
Every week, as relevant, we review environmental incidents including spill metrics and causal factors to 
determine the effectiveness of our spill prevention and response programs. We also conduct field technician 
audits and analytical testing to help ensure the effectiveness of and spill response activities.
And, at least quarterly, our operational and environmental teams host “sync” meetings to review the root cause 
analysis of any spills or other environmental incidents and recommend operational improvements.
Most recently, we identified and implemented three initiatives to improve our spill prevention and response:
• Placing financial accountability on responsible contractors when spills occur, leading to improved diligence 
that results in a reduction in the number of contractor related environmental spills
• Creating a small spill, self-remediation program to expedite small spill response time, reducing the 
cumulative impact of these spills
• Ranking spills according to their actual and potential environmental risk using a proprietary matrix, helping 
with appropriate response plans and to implement lessons learned to the associated risk level2020 ESG REPORT65
W ASTE MANAGEMENT
Antero Midstream takes a comprehensive approach to waste management, looking for opportunities to responsibly 
reduce, reuse and recycle the waste we generate. Our Operations teams are on the front lines of managing our waste 
streams with oversight by our HSSE department. Dedicated environmental specialists help our operational staff and 
contractors to properly characterize, transport and dispose of waste in an environmentally responsible and cost-
effective manner. 
Our waste management program includes many management practices to help ensure we’re properly managing 
materials throughout our operational lifecycles. These practices offer consistency in how we manage and reduce the 
waste produced and disposed of during our operations.
Antero’s waste streams associated with the exploration, development or production of natural gas and NGLs are 
considered non-hazardous, in accordance with EPA’s Subtitle D of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act 
(RCRA). There are certain activities, such as production tank cleanings, that may cause waste to be classified as a 
hazardous material under current U.S. DOT regulations.
DISPOSING OF WASTE
When waste is generated and ready for disposal, we follow a four-step waste hierarchy that prioritizes eliminating, 
minimizing and recycling waste streams.
Waste generated from Antero’s operations are characterized, managed and disposed of in accordance with 
regulatory requirements. Waste streams are primarily treated, recycled or disposed of within the Appalachian Basin: 
West Virginia, Ohio, and occasionally Pennsylvania. Each state’s regulatory requirements dictate the organization 
and direction of the disposal process. 
Our disposal facilities are subject to a pre-approval process during which Antero Midstream experts perform an 
audit of the facility’s regulatory records. We also conduct routine site visits and audits of approved disposal facilities 
throughout our partnerships.
TRACKING WASTE
Antero Midstream tracks waste from cradle to grave, regardless of origin and characterization. For all waste, we 
document the type and quantity of waste, transportation company, final disposal facility and signatures of those 
responsible parties involved in the waste management. We track our waste volumes across all business units and 
locations, based on the received weight at the time of disposal or treatment. OUR WASTE HIERARCHY
DISPOSAL TREATMENT RECYCLE/REUSE IDENTIFICATION & 
SOURCE REDUCTION2020 ESG REPORT66
NORM / TENORM 
Naturally occurring radioactive material (NORM) exists in plants, soil and rocks and underground deposits of oil and 
natural gas, among other materials. As a result, NORM can build up in pipelines and other equipment. Human activity 
can also cause the waste to be categorized as technologically enhanced NORM (TENORM). 
NORM/TENORM requires specialized handling and disposal to prevent worker exposure. Antero’s HSSE 
department has developed and implemented a safe work practice requiring contractors and subcontractors who 
perform or supervise work involving NORM/TENORM to have a Radiation Protection Program (RPP) in place. At a 
minimum, each company’s RPP shall comply with regulatory dose limits and as low as reasonably achievable (ALARA) 
principles and provide for audits to verify compliance. 
The level of NORM/TENORM is generally 
ascertained through either a dose rate survey of 
activity (uR/hr or mR/hr) or lab analytical samples 
of radionuclide concentration (pCi/g). Based 
on these results, Antero Midstream and our 
contractors will determine the most appropriate 
means of transport, treatment and/or disposal. 
High NORM/TENORM wastes are typically 
disposed of at approved facilities outside the 
Appalachian region due to current regulatory 
requirements for disposal.Antero maintains a full-time Radiation 
Safety Officer, an expert who oversees 
radiation activities so that they are 
performed safely and in accordance with 
regulatory requirements, ALARA principles 
and Antero’s policies and proceduresREDUCING WASTE
Antero Midstream strives to reduce residual waste from our midstream processes whenever possible. 
In 2019, Antero Midstream conducted an oil-testing program to evaluate the efficiency of the engines at our 
compressor stations. Through this program, we were able to double the life of our engine oil, reducing the 
amount of waste oil that needs to be recycled and the amount of filters requiring disposal. 
Because of the oil testing, we have reduced our engine oil use by more than 1,000 barrels annually, 
preventing nearly 1,200 filters from being landfilled. 
Antero’s Water department implemented a similar program that annually reduces oil use by an estimated 
250 barrels and eliminated the need to landfill 900 oil filters, 900 water separator filters and 900 fuel filters.
2020 ESG REPORT 662020 ESG REPORT67
RECYCLING
In 2020, AM recycled or reused 
134 tons of non-hazardous waste 
that included plastic liners, poly 
pipe and metal. It is our intention to 
continue to grow this number through 
the implementation of innovative 
recycling programs.Antero’s headquarters building in Denver, CO is 
Gold LEED Certified and all Antero Midstream office 
buildings implement extensive recycling programs
MATERIALS THAT ANTERO MIDSTREAM HAS PROGRAMS TO RECYCLE:
PLASTIC WATER PIPELINES BATTERIES, FROM BOTH 
OPERATIONS AND OFFICE USE
E-WASTE
2020 ESG REPORT 67SPECIALIZED RECYCLING EFFORTSOFFICE PAPER AND GENERAL 
TRASH RECYCLINGUSED OIL
Antero Midstream donated water treatment products to several West Virginia communities for use in their public 
water service facilities. Rather than landfilling the products, local municipalities benefited by reducing their number 
of product orders and their subsequent budgets. 
RESULT: Nearly 11,000 gallons and 91.75 tons of bulk and non-bulk products 
were reused 
Antero Midstream transferred its stockpile of unused limestone to Antero Resources. Antero Resources was able to 
use the rock in well site, road and reclamation projects. 
RESULT: A total of 8,673 cubic feet of limestone was redistributed 
After a laboratory was slated to close in 2020, Antero Midstream identified a local high school that could use the 
lab’s unused chemicals for Chemistry classes.
RESULT: More than 20 types of chemicals were donated, including more than 15 
liters and 3 gallons2020 ESG REPORT68
PIPELINE INTEGRITY
Pipelines are the safest way to transport oil and natural gas and are strictly regulated by the U.S. Department of 
Transportation’s Pipeline & Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA). According to PHMSA, 64% of 
energy commodities are transported by pipelines across 2.8 million miles of regulated pipelines. 
Antero Midstream operates 468 miles of gathering pipelines and more than 337 miles of fresh water pipelines. 
Of this network:
• Approximately 10.4 miles are jurisdictional natural gas transmission pipelines
• Approximately 19.5 miles are jurisdictional hazardous liquid pipelines
• 6.75 miles are jurisdictional Type A pipelines 
Through our Pipeline Integrity Program, we establish and implement high standards of safety management, 
operating and maintenance processes to keep our pipeline network safe for our employees and contractors, our 
communities and the environment. Our integrity management program meets the requirements of 49 CFR 192 
Subpart O and 49 CFR 195 Subpart F & H for covered pipelines that could affect High Consequence Areas (HCAs).
The five components of our Pipeline Integrity Program guide our actions to proactively identify and manage risks 
associated with pipelines. 
PIPELINE INTEGRITY PROGRAM COMPONENTS
Ruptures and leaks are the most common risks to the structural integrity of our infrastructure. We monitor pressure, 
flow and equipment integrity as part of our routine evaluation of the safety of our pipelines. 
Specific to equipment integrity, we review for internal and external corrosion, perform routine and preventive 
maintenance duties and inspect our pipelines on a consistent basis. 
Our integrity management accountability is shared across our Engineering, Operations and HSSE departments. 
These teams manage both our pipeline-specific training program and our integrity processes and procedures.  GOVERNING 
FACTORSPROGRAM 
MANAGEMENTPROCEDURES 
AND TRAINING
CONSERVATION 
ACTIONSDOCUMENTATION & 
REPORTING2020 ESG REPORT69
In addition to our internal teams and processes, a number of regulatory agencies help govern the integrity of our 
pipeline assets and safety procedures:
• Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) 
• Department of Transportation (DOT) 49 CFR Parts 191, 192 and 195
• West Virginia Public Service Commission (WVPSC) 
• Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO) 
• Occupational Safety & Health Administration (OSHA) 
• National Association of Corrosion Engineers (NACE) 
• American Petroleum Institute (API) 
• American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) 
In 2020, Antero Midstream continued progress on its federally-mandated baseline assessment plan — a plan that 
identifies potential threats to covered pipelines and assesses the integrity of line pipes according to a schedule 
of completion.
2020: 11 (MORE) MILES, 
3.3% OF TOTAL INFRASTRUCTURE2019: 15 MILES, 2.5% OF TOTAL INFRASTRUCTURE
Includes 6 jurisdictional pipeline segments 
or 42% of our jurisdictional infrastructurePIPELINE INTEGRITY ACTIONS
Prevent Inspect/Detect T esting Repair Operations
• Higher hydro-test 
pressures
• Limit pressures to 
95% MAOP
• Pipelines designed 
and constructed 
to transmission 
pipeline standards
• Low pressure 
pipelines built 
to high pressure 
standards• Right-of-way surveys 
• Class location studies 
• Corrosion coupon
• Atmospheric corrosion 
• Aboveground and underground 
storage tanks 
• Vessels 
• Valves
• Ground flares
• Re-boilers
• Automated SCADA system
• 100% x-ray of welds
• Dynamic system health reporting 
dashboard
• Pipeline gas and liquid sampling
• Close interval surveys
• Right-of-way patrols; leak 
detection; slip identification• Engine emissions
• Pressure safety devices 
• Oil and Triethylene 
Glycol 
• Safety devices• Pipeline Isolation 
Quick Reference 
T ool
• PHMSA required 
maintenance on 
non-regulated 
items
• Document control 
and retention• Continuous pigging 
regiment 
• Chemical injection 
• In-line Inspection (ILI) 
smart pigging 
• Cathodic protection 
• Leak Detection and 
Repair (LDAR)
• 811 Program/One Call2020 ESG REPORT70
EDUCATING THE PUBLIC ABOUT PIPELINE SAFETY
The most common cause of pipeline incidents is not notifying the proper organizations before excavation, leaving 
underground utilities unmarked. In support of the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002, Antero Midstream 
conducts a program to educate the community on the one-call notification system. 
This program encourages the public to call a local designated number (often 811) prior to any digging so that buried 
utilities and pipelines can be identified and marked above ground. Through annual or bi-annual mailers, Antero 
Midstream communicates the one-call information and other pipeline safety tips to approximately 600 stakeholders 
ranging from emergency officials, excavators and contractors, and affected neighbors.
In 2020, representatives from the company attended three Paradigm Coordinated Response Exercises (CoREX) 
designed to educate and prepare first responders and public officials to respond to pipeline incidents.
2020 ESG REPORT 702020 ESG REPORT71
BOARD OVERSIGHT
The ESG Committee of our Board guides and governs our ESG 
initiatives and includes four individuals, all with expertise in areas 
relating to ESG, including environmental, social and community 
relations.  This committee meets quarterly and receives updates 
from management on pertinent ESG risks or opportunities, 
including climate-related topics during each meeting.  When 
needed, the committee informs the Board-at-large about climate 
risks or opportunities.In 2020, the Board ESG 
Committee endorsed a set of 
2025 goals related to reducing 
our climate impact. More 
information on these goals 
is available in the Climate 
T argets and Roadmap section. 
CLIMATE-RELATED TOPICS ADDRESSED AT ESG COMMITTEE MEETINGS IN 2020
Progress on 2025 climate goals
Sustainable reporting strategy
Emissions management
Climate-related risk scenarios generally and physical climate risk scenario results 
Responsibly sourced gas opportunities
ESG risk management
VIEW FROM OUR ESG COMMITTEE CHAIR
The ESG Committee was established to provide guidance 
to the company about ESG strategy. W e do this by meeting 
with company leadership and engaging ESG subject matter 
experts to discuss challenges, trends and opportunities. These 
conversations help shape Antero Midstream’s ESG strategy 
and promote an additional layer of ESG accountability within 
the organization.
Brooks Klimley joined the Antero Midstream Board in March 2019. He brings ESG experience from his near 
25-year career leading investment banking practices covering the energy and mining sectors. Mr. Klimley also 
serves as an Adjunct Professor at Columbia University’s graduate schools of business and international affairs. 
CLIMATE | GOVERNANCE
Brooks Klimley
ESG Committee Chair2020 ESG REPORT72
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT
Antero’s ESG Executive Leadership T eam is actively involved in reducing the company’s environmental footprint with 
a specific focus on our emissions intensity. Each Antero Midstream executive plays a role in supporting our 2025 
environmental goals and positively impacting our climate change performance. 
Our Vice President of Midstream Operations and our 
Vice President of Health, Safety and Environment 
often partner together to champion climate change 
initiatives across Antero Midstream operations. From 
strategic planning to new technology adoption, we 
efficiently and successfully implement new climate-
sensitive solutions because of the integration of our 
Operations and HSSE teams. 
We support trade associations, public policy 
organizations and academic research initiatives to 
inform public dialogue on climate issues. We also 
engage with elected officials, regulatory agencies, 
community leaders and the public to provide perspective on key climate issues and to advocate for reasonable public 
policy and regulatory frameworks. We support evidence-based policies, developed with input from a broad array 
stakeholders to establish pragmatic regulatory policy to address potential impacts of climate change.
ORGANIZATIONAL OWNERSHIP
Our employees are on the front lines of our operations, impacting our environmental performance every day. All 
employees have ownership over reducing our climate impact and supporting our ESG goals, and certain teams 
take leadership roles to manage climate-related risks and opportunities. While certain groups may have primary 
ownership of certain climate-related responsibilities, collaboration on these efforts is driven in part by our GHG / 
Methane Reduction T eam and, as described in more detail below, our ESG Advisory Council. These groups bring 
together a broad coalition of internal stakeholders across disciplines to assist with the company’s assessment of 
climate-related risks and report to ESG Executive Leadership T eam and the Board. We continue to develop and 
refine corporate policies related to these efforts.Beginning in 2021, we incorporated an 
additional qualitative performance metric 
tied to ESG for our Named Executive 
Officers. This decision was endorsed by 
our Board ESG Committee. In addition to 
rewarding ESG excellence, this pay-for-
performance better aligns compensation 
with the interests of our stakeholders. 
T eam Climate-Related Role Climate-Related Responsibilities  
Operations On-site emissions 
reductionIncorporating emissions-reducing technology and programs; identifying 
opportunities for on-site improvements; monitoring for and fixing leaks; climate 
risk analysis
Environment Emissions reduction 
strategy and 
performanceEnvironmental strategy planning; identifying new emissions-reducing technology 
and programs; managing compliance programs; partnering with Operations for 
voluntary emissions reduction programs; climate risk analysis
Internal Audit Climate risk 
identification and 
managementAssessing and managing climate-related risk; verifying air emissions data for 
compliance and reporting
Information 
T echnologyEmissions reduction 
technology adoptionPartnering with Operations to incorporate emissions-reducing technology, 
particularly remote monitoring programs and apps
Regulatory 
AffairsClimate policy 
engagementPartnering with trade associations and/or working independently with legislative 
officials; supporting evidence-based research about climate impacts2020 ESG REPORT73
In 2021 Antero Midstream launched an ESG Advisory Council — a cross-disciplinary group of subject matter experts 
that manages ESG (including climate change) risks, opportunities and strategies. The committee reports directly to 
the ESG Executive Leadership T eam, which includes Antero’s CEO, and has broad access to company resources to 
support its purpose. 
Our management team’s Director of ESG chairs the council which includes the following employees: 
• Chief Administrative Officer and Regional Senior Vice President
• Senior Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer
• General Counsel and Vice President – Legal and Secretary
• Senior Vice President – Reserves, Planning and Midstream
• Vice President – Midstream Operations
• Vice President – Risk Management
• Regional Vice President
• Vice President – Health, Safety and Environment
• Associate Counsel – Environmental and Regulatory 
• Director of ESG
• Director of Finance
• Director of Environmental and Regulatory Compliance
 
The council is responsible for the following tasks:
Develop and oversee a collaborative approach to identifying and managing the ownership of the ESG risks, 
opportunities and strategies appropriate for the Company
Increase internal awareness and support of the company’s ESG initiatives including, but not limited to, the 
Company’s ESG risk assessments, reporting, and approach to third-party ratings and frameworks
Create project groups, as needed, to enhance cooperation and drive results on ESG projects that involve 
multiple Company teams 
Create and oversee a cohesive stakeholder ESG communication plan
ESG EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM
GHG / Methane Reduction T eamESG Advisory Committee VP of Risk ManagementExecutive Leadership T eamESG Board CommitteeBoard of Directors2020 ESG REPORT74
CLIMATE | STRATEGY
We identify, evaluate and track our climate risks through our enterprise risk management program (ERM), dividing 
our climate risks into two overarching categories as defined by TCFD, physical and transition risks. With each 
identified risk, we consider mitigation plans to help improve our ability to manage them or reduce such risks to an 
acceptable level. 
TCFD RISK ASSESSMENT PROCESS
Antero Midstream partnered with a global engineering consulting firm to conduct both a physical and transitional 
risk assessment in 2021. These assessments are being performed to help Antero Midstream better align its climate 
risk management process with the TCFD recommendations, and the draft results will be shared with Antero’s ESG 
Executive Leadership T eam and the Board ESG Committee in Q4 2021, once finalized. We expect to report on the 
final results and recommendations in 2022. Information regarding our efforts to assess our risks in alignment with 
the TCFD framework are below, though may change upon finalization of the report. 
TRANSITION RISK ASSESSMENT 
We are conducting a high-level screening of the transition risks associated with Antero’s operations and are 
evaluating our exposure to low-carbon transitionary trends. In keeping with the TCFD recommendations, we are also 
seeking to identify potential opportunities presented by the energy transition. 
In assessing the risks posed by the transition to a low-carbon economy, Antero Midstream is performing a scenario 
analysis using two publicly available transition scenarios developed by the International Energy Agency (IEA), the 
Stated Policies Scenario (STEPS) and the Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS):
• The Stated Policies Scenario (STEPS) reflects the impact of existing policy frameworks and today’s announced 
policy intentions; and
• The Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS) is a 2-degree scenario which highlights a possible future course by 
working backwards from the achievement of sustainable energy-related goals
 These two scenarios are the most widely used and recognized by organizations conducting transition risk 
assessments; however, we recognize the potential for additional scenarios in the future.
This assessment will involve:
• A gap analysis covering three of the core elements of TCFD: (i) governance structures; (ii) risk and opportunity 
management mechanisms; and (iii) metric and targets in relation to climate; and 
• The fourth core element of TCFD: a transition risk and opportunity assessment, which comprises a review of 
Antero Midstream’s strategyPHYSICAL RISKS
Risks related to the physical 
impacts of climate changeTRANSITION RISKS
Risks related to the transition  
to a low-carbon economyRISK 
CATEGORIZATION2020 ESG REPORT75
PHYSICAL RISK ASSESSMENT 
We conducted a desktop screening-level assessment for the 20 compressor stations operated by Antero Midstream. 
The purpose of the assessment was to develop climate hazard information that could potentially be used for 
vulnerability assessment, adaption planning and disclosure of climate-related risks and opportunities. 
The physical climate hazard evaluation assessed the exposure of each compressor station to:
• Gathered data on current (baseline) observed climate conditions for each midstream site to characterize 
exposure in the present-day, and then used climate model projections to determine how exposure could change 
through the 2050s
• Utilized a scenario analysis approach that considered two greenhouse gas (GHG) concentration scenarios: 
a high global emissions scenario (RCP 8.5) and an intermediate scenario, in which global emissions peak by 
approximately 2040 (RCP 4.5)
• Reviewed operating history to identify risks from weather-related hazards in our operating areas, such as 
extreme temperatures and precipitation, and assess potential physical risks resulting from climate change and 
efforts to mitigate asset vulnerability from such physical climate hazards in the future.Transition Climate-Related Risks Climate-Related Role
Policy changes • Stricter regulatory environment; delays in operations due to permitting 
restrictions
• Implementation of a carbon tax
• Increased operating and compliance costs
• Operating limitations that could negatively impact production
Litigation • Increased litigation costs
• Fees or settlements that could reduce overall revenue
• Encouragement of legislation or regulatory requirements
Market resiliency • Reduced demand, reduced revenue
Corporate reputation • Reduced investment interest
• Limited access to capital due to the potential for financial institutions to 
reduce funding to the fossil fuel sector
EXTREME 
TEMPERATURESWILDFIREINLAND 
FLOODINGWATER STRESS/
DROUGHT
Physical Climate Change Physical Climate Hazards
Acute Risks • Wildfire
• Extreme weather events, such as floods
Chronic Risks • Heat and cold exposure
• Water stress
Acute Risk – refers to those risks that are event-driven, including increased severity of extreme weather events, such as hurricanes or floods
Chronic Risk – refers to longer-term shifts in climate patterns (e.g., sustained higher temperatures) that may cause sea level rise or chronic heat waves.2020 ESG REPORT76
OPPORTUNITIES
As Antero Midstream works to complete and finalize the TCFD analysis by the end of 2021, we have identified 
various areas of potential opportunity to address the risks preliminarily identified through the assessment process. 
As such, Antero Midstream has noted potential benefits associated with pursuing those possible opportunities if and 
to the extent they are fully realized.  
SUMMARY OF PHYSICAL EXPOSURE RATINGS
 
 Possible Areas of Opportunity Potential Benefits
New T echnology Adoption • Reduced emissions and operating costs
• More targeted monitoring, leak detection and repair
• Increased efficiencies and production, increased revenue
• Increased heat resilience for on-site workers
Product Demand and Market Share • Increased revenue possibilities if demand for RSG increases
• Strong LNG/NGLs exports future
Policy and Trade Engagement • Collaboration with stakeholders to develop evidence-based policy to 
maintain social license to operate
• More targeted risk management
• Strategic planning based on more realistic policy environment
HEAT EXPOSURE
FLOOD EXPOSURECOLD EXPOSURE WILDFIRE
WATER STRESS/DROUGHT
Minimal ModerateModerate - 100%
High - 5% High - 5%Minimal - 100% Minimal - 100%
Minimal - 95% Minimal - 95%
High2020 ESG REPORT77
SUMMARY FINDINGS BY HAZARD
Overall, the physical risk assessment has indicated that Antero’s targeted portfolio is not expected to see as 
intense exposure to physical climate risks as competitors in other areas around the world. A handful of sites are 
expected to see greater flood risks, and heat exposure becomes a risk across Antero assets. Aside from this, the 
main physical risk identified to our current portfolio in this assessment has been the slight probability that one 
compressor station is located in a region with high exposure to water stress in the 2040 scenario. In addition, one 
compressor station was found to be located in 100-year floodplain. We recognize that we will need to take these, 
and any other physical climate risks that emerge over time, into consideration for our overall strategy. However, 
we are pleased to report that our review to date has indicated that Antero’s current portfolio has a relatively high 
level of resiliency to the physical risks assessed.Heat Exposure • The average number of days with temperatures above 95° is projected to increase in 
Antero’s operating area from 0 to 1 days per year to 19 to 24 days by  
the 2050s
• Past reported incidents related to heat stress were largely impacts to on-site 
personnel at pipelines, but there was one reported incident of defective equipment at 
a pipeline in which high air temperatures were listed as a potential contributing factor
• The projected increase in extreme heat days may increase the frequency and 
severity of work-related heat illnesses
Cold Exposure • The average number of days with temperatures below 10° is projected to decrease 
by approximately 12 to 17 days per year by the 2050s
• Past reported incidents related to cold exposure include equipment failure/
malfunction, spills, vehicle/property damage, and impacts on the health and safety of 
on-site workers
• The projected decrease in cold exposure may reduce the frequency of these impacts
Wildfire • All sites are expected to see an increase in the frequency of weather conditions that 
are conducive to wildfire, but all assessed well pads are in areas with ‘very low’ to 
‘low’ present-day wildfire potential
Water Stress / Drought • World Resources Institute (WRI) Aqueduct water risk modeling tool classified only 
one compressor station in the Utica region of Ohio as having ‘high’ exposure to water 
stress in 2040 under the RCP 8.5 scenario
• Water consumption is limited primarily to drilling and completion operations at 
Antero Resources well pads, and thus impacts to Antero Midstream would be due to 
interruptions in supply from upstream drilling operations
Inland Flooding • One compressor station was found to be within a Federal Emergency Management 
Agency (FEMA) 100-year (1% annual chance) floodplain, and none were within the 
500-year (0.2% annual chance) floodplain
• There were no reported incidents of inundation of sites; however, the frequency and 
intensity of extreme rainfall events is projected to increase2020 ESG REPORT78
CLIMATE | STRATEGY RESILIENCY
We recognize the growing concern over climate change and are committed to proactively managing our business to 
reduce GHG emissions and limit the environmental impacts of our operations. If produced and transported properly, 
natural gas development should be supported by the investment and regulatory communities. As the lightest and 
least greenhouse gas (GHG) intensive hydrocarbon, natural gas is expected to play a fundamental role as both the 
U.S. and global economies transition to a lower carbon future. Natural gas and natural gas liquids are part of the 
solution, and these products can be produced and transported with almost zero leakage and loss.
There is growing momentum to identify and implement solutions to reduce GHG emissions without sacrificing 
economic and humanitarian imperatives such as a rising standard of living for much of the underdeveloped world. 
Stable and affordable energy supplies could make it possible for more people to access healthcare, transportation 
and education that contribute to improved living standards and a higher quality of life. Embracing of the energy 
transition to a lower carbon environment is ubiquitous across government, industry, investor, creditor and the  
public sectors.
We believe that it is critical for Antero to be a leader in the global energy transition and to be part of the solution. 
For context, the world consumes almost 600 exajoules (EJ) of primary energy per year, the vast majority of which is 
derived from hydrocarbons (Figure 1 World Consumption). Natural gas consumption has been increasing for the last 
25 years, while renewables began to increase at a rapid rate about 15 years ago (Figure 2 Shares of Global Primary 
Energy). Natural gas and renewables are slowly displacing oil and coal in the energy mix. Much of that displacement 
is a result of the electrification that has occurred over the past 20 years.
  
Source: BP Statistical Review of World Energy 2021World Consumption
Exajoules
'95                '00               '05               '10               '15              '20600
500
400
300
200
100
0Renewables
Hydroelectricity
Nuclear energy
Coal
Natural gas
Oil
Source: BP Statistical Review of World Energy 2021Shares of Global Primary Energy
Percentage
'95                '00                '05                 '10                '15                '2050
40
30
20
10
0Renewables
Hydroelectricity
Nuclear energyCoal
Natural gas
Oil2020 ESG REPORT79
NATURAL GAS DEMAND
The 2015 Paris Agreement aims to hold the increase in global average temperatures to well below 2 degrees Celsius 
above pre-industrial levels. The IEA, in turn, has developed several long-term projections for energy supply and 
demand. The displacement trend that we have seen in recent years is expected to continue over the next 20 years as 
the consumption of oil and coal eventually decline and global natural gas consumption remains steady in the STEPS 
and SDS scenarios. The IEA has stated that its Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS) is “Paris Agreement-aligned” 
while also meeting other key United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, such as a reduction in non-GHG 
air pollutants and universal access to affordable and reliable energy. Under the SDS, natural gas demand remains 
significant, at more than 20% of global energy demand in 2040. Under the IEA’s Stated Policy Scenario, which only 
looks at the impact of existing policy frameworks and announced policy intentions, natural gas demand is forecast to 
contribute more than 25% of the global energy demand mix by 2040. While climate action has received increasing 
and more fervent attention recently, the majority of scenarios currently forecast that decarbonization efforts do not 
mean eliminating all use of hydrocarbons over the next 20 years.  
 
LNG is key to meeting this global demand.  Antero Midstream’s infrastructure and strategic access to export facilities is 
in place and poised to expand as needed to support Antero Resources’ response to increasing global gas supply needs.
  Source: World Energy Outlook 2020Global Fuel Supply by Scenario
2010               2015                2020                2025               2030                2035                20405,000
4,000
3,000
2,000
1,000
0MtoeOil
Coal
Natural gas
Low-carbon fuelsSTEPS
SDS
% are approximate based on charts.Source: World Energy Outlook 2020T otal Global Liquefaction Capacity Versus T otal LNG Demand
2010               2015                2020                2025               2030                2035                20401,000
800
600
400
200
0bcmSTEPS
DRS
SDS
Under 
construction
ExistingLNG demand
LNG capacity2020 ESG REPORT80
CLIMATE |  RISK MANAGEMENT
Climate change is a risk noted in our enterprise risk management (ERM) process. Through our regular ERM 
assessment, we identify existing or emerging climate-related risks that could impact our business performance. Each 
climate-change related risk is managed through our risk register and assessed against a risk matrix to determine 
potential timing and impact. This strategic evaluation allows us to consistently measure climate risk against other 
risks across our company. 
Our VP of Risk Management oversees our ERM process and ensures the Audit Committee and our Board are 
apprised of all significant risks facing Antero, which includes E SG risks.  Our Director of ESG leads Antero’s efforts to 
address ESG Risks and updates our ESG Executive Leadership T eam and our ESG Committee on those risks and the 
mitigating actions we are taking.
EMISSIONS REDUCTION EFFORTS
We are committed to proactively managing our business to reduce our GHG emissions intensity and limiting the 
environmental impact of our operations.  
Our GHG / Methane Reduction T eam is comprised of Operations and HSSE Vice Presidents and their experienced 
management staff across different functional groups. The GHG / Methane Reduction T eam meets quarterly to 
analyze and determine: 
• Whether emerging GHG and methane detection and quantification technologies can be implemented
• Which best management practices can be adopted to further reduce emissions; and 
• Which new reduction technologies are coming to market that might be useful in our operations
This group also reviews our existing performance and metrics to help ensure continuous improvement toward 
meeting our ESG goals. Outcomes from the Methane and GHG Reduction T eam are reported to the ESG  
Advisory Council. 
2020 ESG REPORT 802020 ESG REPORT81
REDUCED TRUCK TRAFFIC
As discussed in more detail in the Water Management section, Antero Midstream has reduced truck traffic 
significantly over the years through an extensive freshwater delivery system and utilizing the Pioneer 
Blending Facility. In turn, the reduced truck traffic has eliminated 14,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions in 
2020. That is equivalent to the amount of carbon sequestered by 17,230 acres of U.S. forests in one year, 
according to the EPA equivalency calculator.
LEAK DETECTION AND REPAIR 
Our methane and air emission controls include a robust leak detection and repair (LDAR) program. Antero 
Midstream conducts LDAR surveys at all compressor stations quarterly. In cases where the station is not 
subject to New Source Performance Standard OOOOa, this commitment exceeds federal requirements.
One full-time technician utilizes a state-of-the-art Optical Gas Imaging Forward Looking Infrared Radar 
cameras to conduct and record LDAR inspections. This technician is trained as a compressor station 
operator. This background allows them to typically repair leaks identified during the inspection; thereby 
eliminating emissions as quickly as possible.
Antero Midstream conducts quarterly LDAR inspections at 100% of its compressor stations. 
In 2020, 83 LDAR surveys were conducted, 60% of leaks identified were repaired during the 
inspection, and the 40% of leaks that could not be fixed immediately were repaired, on average, 
within 5.4 days.
Our emissions reduction program focuses 
on leak detection and repair; flaring 
reduction and operational improvements.2020 ESG REPORT82
Recognizing that combustion emissions present the largest challenge and 
opportunity to reduce our scope 1 emissions, we have partnered with a major engine 
manufacturer to explore technological solutions to reduce engine emissionsOPERATIONAL IMPROVEMENTS
Throughout our operations, we study potential emissions sources to determine if we can implement 
management practices, or adopt a new technology, to limit our climate impact. Our additional emissions 
intensity reduction practices include: 
• Air actuated pneumatic control valves are utilized at 96% of facilities. The remaining 4% of sites have gas-
operated pneumatics and are being evaluated for retrofit 
• 96% of compressor engine starters are outfitted with air driven starters 
• Upgraded glycol dehydration systems to optimize recirculation rates while reducing flash tank  
separators vapors  
• Hot taps and pipeline pump down techniques are utilized that lower pipeline pressure and capture gas 
volume before maintenance  
• Pilot testing the use of LDAR surveys conducted by drones and aircraft at compressor stations and along 
the pipeline rights of way 
• Reviewing solutions to minimize and recover gas from pigging operations 
• Injecting blowdown gas into the fuel system at new compressor stations 
• Pilot testing an open path continuous monitoring on a tank battery to identify tank hatch leaks in  
real time  
• Exploring the use of electric compression at future stations beyond 2022, where feasible  
• Reviewing thermal oxidizer efficiency2020 ESG REPORT83
VOLUNTARY PROGRAMS AND PARTNERSHIPS
Antero Midstream actively participates in a number of voluntary programs that focus on reducing emissions 
intensities across our industry.
EPA NATURAL GAS STAR PROGRAM
By joining this EPA program, we expanded our commitment to evaluate and implement methane  
reduction projects. 
 
ONE FUTURE
ONE Future is an industry collective focused on voluntarily reducing methane emissions, with a goal to lower 
emissions to 1% or less of total natural gas production by 2025. Antero’s methane leak loss rate is consistently 
well ahead of the ONE Future industry goal of 1.0% and the gas production segment goal of 0.08% (by 2025). 
Our methane leak loss rate is less than half of our industry peer average. In 2019, the average methane leak loss 
rate for all midstream companies who participate in ONE Future was 0.033%, which is more than double Antero’s 
methane leak loss rate of 0.015%. This rate is also well ahead of the ONE Future industry goal of 1.0% and the gas 
midstream segment goal of 0.08% by 2025.
Gathering and Boosting Sector T argetOil Field Industry T arget 20250.015%0.033%0.08%1%
AM 20202019 Oil Field Gathering and Boosting Sector Avg.METHANE LEAK LOSS RATE2020 ESG REPORT84
PUBLIC POLICY ENGAGEMENT
We actively partner with lawmakers and regulatory agencies to discuss pragmatic regulation to support the U.S. ’s 
response to the Paris Agreement. Through independent engagement and trade association participation, we are 
committed to identifying collaborative solutions that lower emissions while meeting global energy demand. 
We align with the American Exploration and Production Council’s Climate Policy and Principles which help to guide 
our climate advocacy efforts. These principles support policy that:
FACILITATES MEANINGFUL GHG EMISSIONS REDUCTIONS
• Requires proportional participation from all sectors of the economy
• Utilizes fair, consistent and transparent measurement methodologies across industries
• Encourages and appropriately accounts for early and/or voluntary actions
• Minimizes inconsistent, redundant and/or contradictory regulations and policies
• Attributes to energy producers only emissions arising during production operations
BALANCES ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENTAL AND ENERGY SECURITY NEEDS
• Ensures the development of critical energy infrastructure
• Makes the costs and associated climate benefits of any policy fully transparent to the American public
• Ensures that the United States shoulders an equitable burden under international agreements
• Does not disadvantage American oil and gas producers and workers against foreign competitors
PROMOTES INNOVATION
• Champions economy-wide public and private investment to develop cost-effective technologies that will reduce 
GHG intensities
• Relies upon predictable and economically efficient policy frameworks, such as the use of market-based policy 
instruments and/or offsets, to deliver outcomes at the lowest cost to society
• Allows all energy sources to compete for innovation funding
Trade associations represent many member companies with differing interests and viewpoints. Some of these 
associations and their membership may take different climate policy positions than Antero Midstream. Our 
membership in a trade association does not necessarily mean our company supports the association’s regulatory 
stance on every issue, particularly climate change, or that we necessarily align with other members within that group 
on these issues.2020 ESG REPORT85
CLIMATE | METRICS
Please see our Performance Metrics section.
CLIMATE | TARGETS AND ROADMAP
Alignment with TCFD and 
SASB disclosure standards
We set a goal of reducing 100% of our pipeline maintenance emissions by 2025, which will be achieved through the 
implementation of operational improvements, work practices, technologies, and through the purchase of emission 
reduction credits. In 2020, Antero Midstream achieved a 11.7% actual reduction in pipeline maintenance emissions. 100% reduction in pipeline 
maintenance  emissions1 22025 ESG GOALS
2020 ESG REPORT 852020 ESG REPORT86
We seek to promote a culture of best-in-class ethical business practices and enterprise risk management. 
Doing the right thing is essential to our culture, and we communicate to our employees that it is essential 
to their, and our, long-term success. 
Accountability and oversight play a critical role in our responsible and ethical operations, as well as our risk 
management program. Managing risk requires both corporate and personal responsibility to protect company assets, 
promote employee safety and preserve the environment and our communities.
GOVERNANCE
CODES, POLICIES 
AND COMPLIANCESUPPL Y CHAIN 
MANAGEMENTPOLITICAL AND 
TRADE ENGAGEMENTRISK MANAGEMENT AND 
BUSINESS CONTINUITY
CYBERSECURITY2020 ESG REPORT87
LEADERSHIP  
Antero Midstream’s Board of Directors has ultimate oversight of the company’s operational performance and ethical 
conduct. This includes — in partnership with Antero’s executive leadership team — managing the company’s risk 
mitigation and ESG efforts.
BOARD COMPOSITION
Our Nominating & Governance Committee is responsible for identifying and recommending individuals qualified 
to become Board members. The Board believes that diverse membership with varying perspectives and breadth of 
experience is an important attribute of a well-functioning Board, and that having diverse thought and opinions at all 
levels of an organization results in better decision-making. 
Our directors are seasoned professionals who bring diverse perspectives and experience to strengthen our company 
and act in the best interests of both Antero Midstream and our shareholders. The Antero Midstream Diversity 
and Inclusion Policy reflects the Board’s commitment to valuing employee diversity and equal opportunity and to 
selecting ideal candidates for Board service.   
The Board created a detailed matrix for evaluating the composition of the Board and identifying areas where 
additional perspectives and experiences may enhance the Board as a whole. The matrix pinpoints:
• Areas where the current Board is strong
• Areas where the current Board could be enhanced
• Qualities that all of Antero’s directors should haveGOVERNANCE AT-A-GLANCE
Director 
age rangeBoard 
membersOf committees chaired by 
independent directorsDirectors are 
independent9 7/ 9 100% 46-70
9 9 9
67
5 5
Executive 
LeadershipFinancial Accounting/Audit Risk Operations Industry Environment, 
Health and Safety 
(includes climate-
related risks)Independent 
lead director
as of April 28, 2021as of October 5, 20212020 ESG REPORT88
 2020 ESG REPORT 88ESG COMMITTEE
In April 2020, our Board created its ESG Committee to guide and govern ESG initiatives. Made up of independent 
directors, this committee: 
Provides guidance to Antero Midstream and its Board on matters relating to the identification, 
evaluation and monitoring of the risks and opportunities related to the environment and climate change, 
health and safety programs, and social and political trends, issues and concerns
Oversees and provides advice on improvements to Antero’s social responsibility or other public policy 
initiatives, policies and practices to better align with and promote Antero’s strategy in a manner 
consistent with its values 
Advises the Board and management on significant and pertinent public policy issues
During 2020, committee members reviewed Antero’s ESG practices and procedures, aided in the publication of our 
annual ESG report and helped to establish the company’s 2025 ESG goals. The ESG Committee also reviewed and 
approved the Diversity and Inclusion Policy; a Supplier Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; and a Human, Labor 
and Indigenous Rights Policy.
NEW DIRECTORS JOIN THE ANTERO MIDSTREAM BOARD
In 2020 and 2021, Antero Resources and Antero Midstream added four new directors (two each) to their respective 
Boards. Three out of the four appointments are women and independent directors.ANTERO MIDSTREAM ESG COMMITTEE  
attendance at meetingsBrooks Klimley (chair)
Janine McArdle
John Mollenkopf meetings in 20203 100%
Michael Kennedy  serves as Chief Financial Officer of Antero Resources. 
Since 2016, he was Chief Financial Officer of Antero Midstream. Before 
joining Antero, he was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer at 
Forest Oil Corporation.
2020 ESG REPORT89
DIRECTOR AND EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
Since our inception, our compensation philosophy has been predominantly focused on recruiting individuals who 
are motivated to help us achieve superior performance and growth. Our company was founded by entrepreneurs 
whose strategy was to employ high-impact executives who seek to spark superior performance with low overhead. 
As a result of our historical emphasis on long-term equity-based compensation, as of April 22, 2021, our Named 
Executive Officers held approximately 3.3% of our outstanding shares. 
We seek to attract, retain, and motivate exceptional executive talent by providing our executives with a competitive 
mix of fixed, time-based and performance-based compensation. Our performance-based compensation program 
focuses on motivating returns and value creation per share, disciplined capital investment, efficient operations,  
and generation of free cash flow. We recently included ESG performance in our annual executive  
compensation program. 
The Compensation Committee of our Board reviews, evaluates and approves plans, policies and programs to 
compensate both Antero Midstream executive officers and directors. The committee’s goal is to ensure that our 
compensation programs are designed to:
• Provide a competitive level of compensation to attract and retain talented directors and executives
• Reward and encourage maximum corporate and individual performance
• Promote accountability and ESG
• Align executive officer and director interest with the interests of our stakeholders
All employees are prohibited from hedging or pledging our stock, and we have robust stock ownership guidelines for 
executives and directors. Under these guidelines, each of our non-employee directors is required to own shares of 
our common stock with a fair market value equal to at least five times the amount of their annual cash retainer within 
five years of being appointed to the Board. These stock ownership guidelines are designed to align our directors’ 
interests more closely with those of our stockholders.
Janine J. McArdle  has more than 30 years of experience in engineering, 
marketing, business development, finance and risk management. She is 
founder and CEO of Apex Strategies LLC, a global consultancy company and 
previously was an executive officer at Apache Corporation. 
of independent 
directors are female29%
2020 ESG REPORT90
Antero’s fundamental policy is to conduct our business with honesty and integrity in accordance with the 
highest legal and ethical standards. Our Corporate Code of Business Conduct and Ethics provides guidance 
for specific situations that may arise as we work. 
While we expect all of our employees and business partners to exercise good judgment in support of our high ethical 
standards, we recognize that it is helpful to provide working examples. Our Code reviews scenarios — from conflicts of 
interest to the use of company resources and trade practices — and defines appropriate ethical responses and actions.
Each of our directors, executives and employees, regardless of level, must be familiar with and agree to comply 
with our Code as a condition of employment. Employees must participate in training and annually attest to their 
understanding of the Code, as well as any non-compliance with the Code. 
Should a violation occur, employees may report it to their managers, our Compliance team or anonymously through 
our Whistleblower Hotline. Reports can be made anonymously and there will be no retaliation if an employee reports 
a potential Code violation in good faith. All reports received through our Whistleblower Hotline are automatically 
routed to the Chair of our Audit Committee.ETHICAL BUSINESS 
PRACTICES
2020 ESG REPORT 90
Antero's Whistleblower Hotline is managed by a third 
party and available 24/7. Anyone can report confidentially 
and anonymously online or by calling (888) 244-9141.2020 ESG REPORT91
NEW STANDARDS FOR HOW WE OPERATE 
The Board, with guidance from our ESG committee, continues to enhance our social governance practices. In 
2020, we adopted new policies focused on the rights of people and promoting equal opportunities for all within our 
workplace. We also introduced a new code of conduct specific to our suppliers.
COMPLIANCE TRAINING
We conduct an annual, companywide ethics and compliance training program that covers, among other things, 
ethical business practices, insider trading and anti-discrimination and anti-harassment policies. Supplier Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
Our Supplier Code sets the standard for responsible practices in Antero Midstream's supply chain. It covers 
expectations with respect to human rights, anti-corruption, data security and environment protection. 
All suppliers, contractors, consultants and other third parties working on behalf of Antero Midstream are 
expected to comply with these standards.
Diversity and Inclusion Policy
Our Diversity and Inclusion Policy reflects the company's commitment to valuing employee diversity, providing 
equal opportunities for all and selecting ideal candidates for Board service. This policy supports our goal of 
building a culture where diversity and inclusion are core philosophies across our operations, and employees 
receive opportunities for development to maximize their talents for individual and company success.
Human, Labor and Indigenous Rights Policy
Through our Human, Labor and Indigenous Rights Policy, we promote the protection of human rights related  
to our business. Antero Midstream values the dignity of all; as such, our policy covers discrimination,  
workplace conditions, compensation, freedom of association, labor practices and impacts to local and 
Indigenous communities. 
2020 ESG REPORT 912020 ESG REPORT92
POLITICAL ENGAGEMENT
We believe it is important to be transparent regarding lobbying efforts and political contributions made on behalf of 
Antero Midstream. It is our policy to not make political contributions in support of any party or candidate in any U.S. 
election, whether federal, state or local, with few exceptions. Our company does not have a political action committee 
(PAC), however we encourage our employees to be active according to their personal political beliefs. 
Our Code directs our actions specific to political activity:
Federal Elections: Federal law prohibits any company from making direct contributions or expenditures to 
a candidate or candidate’s campaign in any federal election. Although there are exceptions, most states also 
prohibit the use of corporate funds to influence state elections. 
State and Local Elections:  The company may on occasion contribute to state and local office candidate 
committees and to state and local initiatives or referendum campaigns where the company’s interests are 
directly involved. 
Proposed political contributions by the company require a brief description of the purpose of the proposed 
contribution and a written legal opinion that confirms that the proposed contribution is lawful. Our Compliance 
Officer reviews and approves the necessary documentation to ensure full compliance with applicable 
regulations and reporting requirements. 
TRADE INVOLVEMENT
Beyond direct political involvement, we support trade associations and public policy organizations that help shape 
public conversations related to Antero Midstream, the natural gas industry and local business matters. These 
organizations often represent a diverse membership and their policy views are not necessarily representative of 
Antero’s corporate opinions.
LOCAL BUSINESS SUPPORT AND ENGAGEMENT
Antero Midstream supports local industry advocacy groups to educate on the benefits of natural gas development 
including local economic and job development. Through volunteer roles, board positions and financial contributions, 
Antero Midstream and its employees lend their leadership and support to the following organizations:
• The Nature Conservancy
• West Virginia Chamber of Commerce
• Gas and Oil Association of West Virginia
• West Virginia Manufacturers Association
• Women’s Energy Network of West Virginia
• Ohio Oil and Gas Association • Harrison County Chamber of Commerce
• United Health Foundation
• Leadership West Virginia
• Utilities, T elecommunications and Energy Coalition 
of West Virginia
• United Health FoundationTrade and Public Policy 
Organizations Supported in 2020
All organizations received $25,000 or more
2020 ESG REPORT93
MANAGING RISK
Proactively identifying risks, and developing mitigation plans in response, helps to safeguard our employees and 
company resources. Our risk management process involves a regular review of short- and long-term risks with 
involvement at every level of our organization. 
ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS
2020 ESG REPORT 93In 2020 we conducted an ESG priority assessment to determine the most important ESG issues to our 
business. We shared the results of this assessment with executive leadership and the Board through the ESG 
Committee process.IDENTIFY RISK
MITIGATE RISK
TRACK RISK 
COMPANYWIDE
MONITOR  
LONG-TERM RISK
INVOLVE THE 
BOARDEach department has a risk lead who identifies and reviews new and previously 
identified risks on a quarterly basis
Each risk lead proposes mitigation actions, presenting them to the departmental 
vice president or senior vice president
Once identified, the Vice President of Risk Management reviews and compiles all 
risks for tracking purposes
Annually, we discuss long-term risks with the executive leadership team and 
incorporate them into the company risk register
We regularly present a full update of short- and long-term risks to our Board, and 
have more substantive conversations with the Board on a specific risk area at least 
three times in a year2020 ESG REPORT94
BUSINESS CONTINUITY
Should risk become reality, Antero Midstream develops business continuity and disaster recovery plans to allow for 
continued communication and continuity of significant operations across the Appalachian region. 
Our Crisis and Field Incident Management teams incorporate best practices into a comprehensive approach to 
emergency planning and management. Based on the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s National Incident 
Management System (NIMS), our approach incorporates all phases of incident management: prevention, mitigation, 
preparedness, response, recovery and resumption. It also includes the Incident Command System designed by NIMS. 
Antero Midstream uses a notification system to communicate with external stakeholders in the event of an 
emergency. The third-party notification system is web-based, offering immediate communications using wired and 
wireless communication devices (telephone, SMS devices, and email). The system also provides automated and 
remote problem-solving capabilities to improve communication in large organizations and enables the recipient to 
send an immediate reply to resolve an issue or convey a new status condition.
COVID-19: BUSINESS CONTINUITY 
PLANNING IN ACTION 
During the start and continuation of the COVID-19 pandemic, our Crisis 
Management team reacted quickly, implementing a work-from-home 
program with minimal interruption to established business processes. 
The team also prepared situational progress reports, with information 
from local officials and emergency management agencies, for our 
executives to make decisions concerning our workforce. 
2020 ESG REPORT 94
2020 ESG REPORT95
CYBERSECURITY
Antero Midstream takes cybersecurity seriously. T o date, we have not experienced any known losses relating to 
cyberattacks. We are continuously adopting new processes and equipment to make our business safer. 
We depend on digital technology in many areas of business, including:
Estimating quantities of oil and gas reserves
Processing and recording financial and operating data
Overseeing and analyzing of drilling and midstream operations
Gathering and compression and water handling services
Communicating with our employees, customers and service providers
Our reliance on technology — and the increased risk facing all energy-related assets — drives our cybersecurity 
protection efforts. Deliberate attacks on our assets or security breaches in our systems or infrastructure could lead 
to the corruption or loss of our proprietary and potentially sensit ive data, delays in production or delivery of our 
production to customers, difficulty in completing and settling transactions, challenges in maintaining our books and 
records, environmental damage, communication interruptions or other operational disruptions. 
Antero's commitment to cybersecurity best practices helps us navigate the ever-changing threat landscape. Our 
security strategies are based on standard cybersecurity frameworks, including the National Institute of Standards 
and T echnology and the International Organization for Standardization. We take a comprehensive and holistic 
approach to our cybersecurity efforts. This approach incorporates employing our people, our processes, and our 
technology to prevent, mitigate and remediate issues. 
Growing concerns with privacy throughout the world have prompted us to deploy both an internal Protection of 
Personal Identifiable Information Policy and a publicly available Privacy Notice to help us ensure that the privacy of 
the individuals whose data we have custody of is understood and respected. In addition, the third parties that we 
entrust with such personal data are also required to comply with our standards for privacy protection.
Our Board of Directors is regularly briefed on cybersecurity issues as part of our overall enterprise risk  
management program.
2020 ESG REPORT 952020 ESG REPORT96
PARTNERING WITH 
OUR SUPPLIERS
Ensuring that everyone working on our sites meets our high standards of business conduct means selecting the right 
suppliers and monitoring their actions on behalf of Antero Midstream.
Antero Midstream places a high priority on purchasing goods and services locally . 
We remain committed to giving local contractors and suppliers the opportunity to 
participate in Antero Midstream projects through a competitive bidding process.
SETTING EXPECTATIONS FOR ETHICAL BEHAVIOR
We set clear expectations for our suppliers through our Supplier Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Antero 
Midstream expects that our business partners, through our Supplier Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, will 
adhere to the following principles when providing products or services to the company:
• Always comply with our Code, the law and other applicable company policies, using good judgment, common 
sense and the highest standards of ethical conduct
• Treat all individuals, including company employees, customers and partners, in an honest and fair manner
• Disclose activities, financial interests or relationships that may be or may appear to be a conflict of interest and 
obtain prior written approval where appropriate
• Create an environment where individuals feel they can voice their concerns
• Safeguard and properly use company proprietary and confidential information, personal information, and other 
company assets and resources, as well as those of the company’s customers and partners
• Report suspected unethical or illegal behavior to Antero’s Human Resources Department or Antero’s 
anonymous ethics hotline at (888) 244-9141
• Always ask any questions or raise a good faith concern you have about possible violations of laws, the Code or 
any other applicable company policies
• Cooperate with company personnel conducting investigationsof suppliers are 
U.S. basedsuppliers provided 
services or goodsof suppliers are considered 
local to our operations 
(company address listed as OH, WV, PA or CO)491 64% 100%
total spend local spendmore than
$1 B $539 MM
As of December 31, 2020; represents AR and AM combined2020 ESG REPORT97
Our Procurement team maintains a potential supplier database for all companies who contact Antero Midstream 
wishing to bid on services or materials. When a tender begins, we review the database, select the suppliers whose 
services meet the requirements and reach out to gauge interest in the bidding process. By considering a full list of 
suppliers for each project, we increase competitive pricing and help to ensure a diverse group of suppliers  
are considered. 
WORKING TO ENSURE COMPLIANCE
Once approved as a business partner, Antero Midstream suppliers must develop and be compliant with their own 
environmental risk, hazard mitigation, and incident management programs, and have policies in place to ensure their 
compliance with relevant environmental laws.
Antero Midstream collaborates with a leading third-party data management service to collect and evaluate 
environmental and regulatory compliance information from our contractors. We apply our unique risk profile and 
grading specifications to the data to review contractor performance against Antero’s expectations.We utilize a third-party verification process to evaluate each of our suppliers related to safety, environmental, 
financial and operational performance, as well as confirming insurance, business and contractor licensing. Evaluations 
are given a grade rating (A, B, C or F) and help ensure we are working with safe and financially secure companies. We 
include these evaluations in our Supplier Selection Process, a thorough assessment of supplier operations prior to 
awarding a contract. 
2020 ESG REPORT 97SUPPLIER SELECTION PROCESS REVIEWS
1 2 3 4 5 6
Verification 
grade ratingSystems and 
processesPast 
performanceFinancial 
securityProduct or 
service trialThird-party 
assessment2020 ESG REPORT98
ANTERO MIDSTREAM ESG 
PERFORMANCE METRICS
Financial Formula/Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
EBITDA (in thousands) US $ 404,353 528,625 627,560 829,558 850,209
Gross throughput BOE 43,608,448 72,561,283 104,740,567 130,953,065 178,303,667
Mile of pipeline Mile 338 437 494 472 468
T otal assets (in 
thousands)US $ 1,816,610 1,980,032 2,349,895 3,042,209 5,610,912
T otal barrels water 
handledbbls - 209,405,874 256,712,730 195,992,597 218,333,333
Safety Formula/Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
T otal recordable 
incidents - employees# 2 1 0 1 1
T otal recordable 
incidents - contractor# 9 11 10 10 6
T otal recordable 
incidents - employee + 
contractor# 11 12 10 11 7
T otal Recordable 
Incident Rate (TRIR) 
employee + contractorEvents X 
200,000 /  
T otal hours 
worked1.246 0.780 0.489 0.602 0.469
T otal Recordable 
Incident Rate (TRIR) 
employeeEvents X 
200,000 /  
T otal hours 
worked1.198 0.533 0.000 0.518 0.577
T otal Recordable 
Incident Rate (TRIR) 
contractorEvents X 
200,000 /  
T otal hours 
worked1.257 0.815 0.543 0.612 0.454
Lost time incident - 
employee # 0 0 0 0 0
Lost time incident - 
contractor# 1 1 3 1 0
Lost time incident - 
employee + contractor# 1 1 3 1 0
Lost Time Incident 
Rate (LTIR) - employee Events X 
200,000 /  
T otal hours 
worked0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000
Lost Time Incident 
Rate (LTIR) - 
contractorEvents X 
200,000 /  
T otal hours 
worked0.140 0.074 0.163 0.061 0.0002020 ESG REPORT99
Lost Time Incident 
Rate (LTIR) - employee 
+ contractorEvents X 
200,000 /  
T otal hours 
worked0.113 0.065 0.147 0.055 0.000
Fatality rate 
(employee)Events X 
200,000 /  
T otal hours 
worked0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000
Fatality rate 
(contractor)Events X 
200,000 /  
T otal hours 
worked0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000
Fatality (employees) # 0 0 0 0 0
Fatality (contractors) # 0 0 0 0 0
Motor vehicle incident 
- employee# - - 3 2 0
Motor vehicle incident 
rate - employee Events X 
1,000,000 /  
T otal miles 
driven- - 1.510 1.056 0.000
Days Away, Restricted 
or Transfer (DART) 
rate - EmployeeEvents X 
200,000 /  
T otal hours 
worked0.599 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.577
Days Away, Restricted 
or Transfer (DART) - 
Employee# 1 0 0 0 1
Days Away, Restricted 
or Transfer (DART) 
rate -  
Employee + 
ContractorEvents X 
200,000 /  
T otal hours 
worked0.113 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.067
Near miss events# of significant 
events30 44 40 19 1
Near miss frequency 
rateEvents X 
200,000 /  
T otal hours 
worked3.40 2.86 1.96 1.04 0.07
T otal hours worked - 
employee# 333,968 375,200 403,104 386,263 346,823
T otal hours worked - 
contractor# 1,431,446 2,700,349 3,686,542 3,269,079 2,640,512
Social Formula/Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Proved reserves in or 
near areas of conflict% 0 0 0 0 0
Probable reserves 
in or near areas of 
conflict% 0 0 0 0 02020 ESG REPORT100
Proved reserves in 
countries that have 
the 20 lowest rankings 
in Transparency 
International’s 
Corruption Perception 
Index% 0 0 0 0 0
Probable reserves in 
countries that have 
the 20 lowest rankings 
in Transparency 
International’s 
Corruption Perception 
Index% 0 0 0 0 0
Reserves in or near 
Indigenous land % 0 0 0 0 0
Number and duration 
of non-technical 
delaysNumber / Days 0 0 0 0 0
Employee volunteer 
hours- - - 3,287 748
Direct donations US $ $455,000 $392,000 $506,000 $245,000 $682,000 
T otal political 
contributionsUS $ 0 0 0 0 0
Federal political 
contributionUS $ 0 0 0 0 0
State political 
contributionsUS $ 0 0 0 0 0
Ad valorem taxes ($ Million) $2.8 $3.7 $4.1 $2.3 $5.5
Careers Formula/Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
T otal employees # 528 592 621 547 522
Corporate employees % 47% 44% 43% 40% 40%
Field employees % 53% 56% 57% 60% 60%
Employee tenure Year / Month3 years, 0 
months3 years, 3 
months3 years, 7 
months4 years, 2 
months4 years, 11 
months
Female employees % 27% 25% 25% 25% 24%
Minority employees % 7% 6% 7% 6% 6%
Female employees in 
management positions% 10% 13% 18% 16% 18%
Minority employees in 
management positions% 1% 5% 5% 4% 3%
Female Board 
members% 0 0 1 1 2
Voluntary employee 
turnover% 10% 10% 13% 16% 6%
Employees unionized # 0 0 0 0 0
Median age # 36 36 36 37 38
Environment Formula/Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 20202020 ESG REPORT101
Significant fines or 
penalties related to 
the environment or 
ecology ($10,000 or 
above)# 0 0 0 0 0
T otal fines or 
penalties related to 
the environment or 
ecology($ Thousand) $6,500 0 0 0 0
Air Formula/Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
T otal Scope 1 GHG 
emissions (gross 
annual) - Antero 
Midstream1Metric tons 
CO2e428,835 766,750 967,417 1,387,523 1,554,301
T otal Scope 1 GHG 
emissions (gross 
annual) - Antero 
Water2Metric tons 
CO2e0 0 63,693 75,110 274
T otal Scope 2 GHG 
emissions (gross 
annual)3Metric tons 
CO2e- 17,911 31,642 32,922 4,258
T otal Scope 1 + 2 
GHG emissions (gross 
annual)4Metric tons 
CO2e428,835 784,661 1,062,753 1,495,554 1,558,833
T otal carbon dioxide 
emissions - Antero 
MidstreamMetric tons 
CO2e408,829 738,108 931,337 1,337,272 1,497,673
T otal carbon dioxide 
emissions - Antero 
WaterMetric tons 
CO2e0 0 63,628 75,032 274
T otal methane 
emissions (gross 
annual) - Antero 
MidstreamMetric tons 
CO2e19,772 28,234 35,572 49,513 55,763
T otal methane 
emissions (gross 
annual) - Antero 
WaterMetric tons 
CO2e0 0 30 35 0.13
T otal methane 
emissions (gross 
annual) - Antero 
MidstreamMetric tons 791 1,129 1,423 1,981 2,231
T otal methane 
emissions (gross 
annual) - Antero 
WaterMetric tons 0 0 1 1 0.005
1IPCC 4AR GWP; T otal GHG emissions are based on emissions reported to the EPA under Subpart W.; Antero does not emit hydrofluorocarbons, 
perfluorocarbons, sulfur hexafluoride, or nitrogen trifluoride.
2IPCC 4AR GWP; T otal GHG emissions are based on emissions reported to the EPA under Subpart W.; Antero does not emit hydrofluorocarbons, 
perfluorocarbons, sulfur hexafluoride, or nitrogen trifluoride.
3World Resources Institute GHG Protocol: Scope 2 Guidance; eGRID2019 emission factors or local utility emission factors when available. T otal Scope 2 
emissions includes Antero Midstream and Antero Water.
4T otal includes Antero Midstream and Antero Water.2020 ESG REPORT102
T otal nitrous oxide - 
Antero MidstreamMetric tons 
CO2e234 408 509 738 866
T otal nitrous oxide - 
Antero WaterMetric tons 
CO2e0 0 36 42 0.15
Methane as a 
percentage of Scope 1 
emissions% 4.6% 3.7% 3.5% 3.4% 3.6%
Emissions covered 
under emissions 
limiting regulation% 3.7% 3.0% 6.9% 5.6% 6.7%
NOx - Antero 
MidstreamMetric tons - - - 687 721
NOx - Antero Water Metric tons - - - 13 4.6
SOx - Antero 
MidstreamMetric tons - - - 5 5.1
SOx - Antero Water Metric tons - - - 0 0.01
Volatile organic 
coumpound (VOC) - 
Antero MidstreamMetric tons - - - 607 571
Volatile organic 
coumpound (VOC) - 
Antero WaterMetric tons - - - 26 1.4
Particulate matter 
(PM) - Antero 
MidstreamMetric tons - - - 143 124.9
Particulate matter 
(PM) - Antero WaterMetric tons - - - 9 0.3
Hazardous air 
pollutants - (HAPS) 
Antero MidstreamMetric tons - - - 63 97.7
Hazardous air 
pollutants (HAPs) - 
Antero WaterMetric tons - - - 2 0.02
GHG intensity (Scope 
1)5Metric tons 
(CO2e / MMscf 
sold)1.65 1.8 1.6 1.8 1.6
GHG intensity (Scope 
1)6Metric tons 
(CO2e / 
Mmscfe)0.6 1.0 1.0 1.2 1.3
Methane intensity7 Metric tons 
(CH4 / Mboe)0.007 0.008 0.009 0.011 0.011
Methane intensity8Metric tons 
(CO2e / 
Mmscfe)0.029 0.035 0.037 0.044 0.046
5The GHG Intensity ratio is calculated by dividing the metric tons of CO2e reported to the EPA by Antero Midstream under Subpart W by MMscf of  
gas sold.
6The GHG Intensity ratio is calculated by dividing the metric tons of CO2e reported to the EPA by Antero Midstream under Subpart W by the gas 
equivalent of Antero Resources’ production (MMscfe). This includes produced gas and liquids.
7The methane intensity ratio is calculated by dividing the metrics tons of methane to the EPA by Antero Midstream under Subpart W by the oil equivalent 
of Antero Resources’ production (Mboe). This includes produced gas and liquids. 
8The methane intensity ratio is calculated by dividing the metrics tons of methane reported as CO2e to the EPA by Antero Midstream under Subpart W 
by the gas equivalent of Antero Resources’ production (Mmscfe). This includes produced gas and liquids.2020 ESG REPORT103
Methane leak loss 
rate9(Methane 
emitted / 
Methane 
transferred)0.018% 0.016% 0.015% 0.017% 0.015%
Gas captured by vapor 
recovery10Metric tons 
CO2e2,239 1,263 3,531 5,832 4,237
Energy Use Formula/Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
T otal energy use11GJ - - 14,744,796 20,752,267 22,763,834
Non-renewable 
energy useGJ - - 14,733,480 20,726,693 22,761,773
Non-renewable 
energy use% - - 99.92% 99.88% 99.99%
Renewable energy use GJ - - 11,317 25,574 2,061
Renewable energy use % - - 0.08% 0.12% 0.01%
T otal electrical use kWh - - 59,411,574 61,829,972 8,750,937
T otal electrical use 
(non renewable)kWh - - 56,268,016 58,566,561 8,174,319
T otal electrical use 
(non renewable)% - - 94.71% 94.72% 93.46%
T otal electrical use 
(non renewable - coal)% - - 44.40% 44.40% 37.49%
T otal electrical use 
(non renewable - 
natural gas)% - - 21.02% 21.01% 26.50%
T otal electrical use 
(non renewable - oil)% - - 0.30% 0.30% 0.20%
T otal electrical use 
(non renewable - other 
fossil fuel)% - - 0.70% 0.70% 0.69%
T otal electrical use 
(non renewable - 
nuclear)% - - 28.19% 28.21% 28.48%
T otal electrical use 
(non renewable - 
unknown or purchased 
fuel)% - - 0.10% 0.10% 0.10%
T otal electrical use 
(renewable)kWh - - 3,143,558 3,263,411 576,445
T otal electrical use 
(renewable)% - - 5.29% 5.28% 6.54%
T otal electrical use 
(renewable - biomass)% - - 0.60% 0.60% 0.59%
T otal electrical use 
(renewable - wind)% - - 3.64% 3.64% 4.62%
T otal electrical use 
(renewable - solar)% - - 0.11% 0.10% 0.13%
9The methane leak loss rate follows the ONE Future calculation protocol.
10The amount of gas reported to EPA under Subpart W as being captured by a tank VRU.
11World Resources Institute GHG Protocol: Scope 2 Guidance; eGRID2019 emission factors and generation mix.2020 ESG REPORT104
T otal electrical use 
(renewable - hydro)% - - 0.94% 0.94% 1.20%
Consumed energy 
from the grid% - - 1.45% 1.07% 0.14%
Water Formula/Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Water recycling rateWaste water 
recycled (Bbl)/  
Waste water 
generated (Bbl)- 0.01 0.04 0.12 0.57
Volume of wastewater 
generated12 bbls - 267,900 399,000 151,040 701,628
Volume of wastewater 
injected into injection 
wells  bbls - 264,500 382,000 132,600 272,492
Volume of wastewater 
recycled/reusedbbls - 3,400 17,000 18,440 400,047
Regions with high 
or extremely high 
baseline water stress13% 0 0 0 0 0
Water discharged to 
land or surface water14thousand 
barrels0 0 0 0 0
Ecological Impacts Formula/Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Agency reportable 
spills15 # - 10 18 8 6
Agency reportable 
spill volume16 bbls - 73.1 395.2 38.1 154.4
Spill IntensityHydrocarbons 
Spilled (Bbl) /  
T otal Liquids 
Handled (Mbl)- 0.000348892 0.001539464 0.000194395 0.000731634
Hydrocarbon spills 
greater than 1 bbl 
that reached the 
environment (includes 
produced water)17# - - - - 5
Hydrocarbon spills 
greater than 1 bbl 
that reached the 
environment (includes 
produced water)18bbls - - - - 159.7
Hydrocarbon spills in 
the Arctic# 0 0 0 0 0
Hydrocarbon spills in 
the Arctic bbls 0 0 0 0 0
12Wastewater can include produced water at compressor stations, contaminated stormwater, impacted hydrotest water, etc.
13Looking at WRI Aqueduct T ool for overall Water Risk.
14AM does not discharge wastewater to the surface.
15Spills reported to a State/Federal Agency.
16Spills reported to a State/Federal Agency.
17Not reported prior to 2020.  
18Not reported prior to 2020. T otal volume that left containment per SASB guidance.2020 ESG REPORT105
Competitive 
BehaviorFormula/Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
T otal amount of 
monetary losses 
as a result of 
legal proceedings 
associated with 
federal pipeline and 
storage rate, access 
and pricing regulationsMillions 0 0 0 0 0
Operational 
Safety, Emergency 
Preparedness and 
ResponseFormula/Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Number of reportable 
pipeline incidents# 0 0 0 0 0
Percentage significant 
of reportable pipeline 
incidents% 0 0 0 0 0
Percentage of 
natural gas pipelines 
inspected% 0 0 0 0 61%
Percentage of 
hazardous liquid 
pipelines inspected19% N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
Waste Formula/Unit 2016 2017 2018* 2019* 2020
Hazardous waste tons 0 0 0 0 0
Non-hazardous waste tons - - 155,253 319,561 6,534
Non-hazardous waste 
(landfilled)20 tons - - 154,489 316,673 6,400
Non-hazardous waste 
(Incinerated)21 tons - - 0 0 0
Non-hazardous waste 
(recycled/reused)22 tons - - - 115 134
Non-hazardous waste 
(injected)- - 764 2,773 -
Non-hazardous liquids 
(used/waste oil) 
recycled/reused23Bbls - 2,940 2,852 3,253 6,261
19We do not have any hazardous liquid transmission pipelines regulated by 49 CFR 195.
20Includes Salt from the Antero Clearwater Facility that was disposed of at the Antero Landfill. Does not include non-hazardous liquids noted below.
21Antero does not incinerate waste.
22Solid waste only (plastic liner, poly pipe, metal, etc.). Does not include recycled/reused oil (barrels).
23Includes used oil, recovered crude oil and recovered condensate at Midstream Facilities (compressor stations, et al) - data from 2020 CSR Waste 
Narrative and prior CSR reports.2020 ESG REPORT106
Training Formula/Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
T otal training hours hours - - 7,221 7,556 6,162
T otal training hoursT otal training 
hours / T otal 
employees- - 11.6 13.8 11.8
HSSE training hours - - 4,228 6,037 4,595
HSSE training HSSE training 
hours / T otal 
employees- - 6.9 10.5 8.8
Social and governance hours - - 2,934 1,824 1,567
Social and governance 
training Social and 
governance 
training hours /  
T otal 
employees- - 4.7 3.3 3.02020 ESG REPORT107
ACTIVITY UNIT 2020
1.1 EBITDA (in thousands) US $ 850,209
1.2 Gross Throughput BOE 178,303,667
1.3 Mile of Pipeline mile 468
Environment
Hydrocarbon Releases
2.1 Number of hydrocarbon liquid releases beyond secondary contain -
ment > 5 bbl# 3
2.2 Volume of hydrocarbon liquid releases beyond secondary contain -
ment > 5 bblbbl 154
2.3 Hydrocarbon Liquid Releases Intensity per Mile of Pipeline bbl/mile 0.182680902
EMISSIONS
2.4 T otal GHG Emissions (Scope 1 + Scope 2) - T otal mt CO2e 1,559,134
2.4.1   Scope 1 GHG Emissions - T otal mt CO2e 1,554,876
2.4.1.1      Scope 1 CO2 Emissions - T otal mt 1,498,245
2.4.1.2      Scope 1 Methane Emissions - T otal mt CO2e 55,764
2.4.2   Scope 1 GHG Emissions - EPA mt CO2e 1,554,301
2.4.2.1      Scope 1 CO2 Emissions - EPA mt 1,497,673
2.4.2.2      Scope 1 Methane Emissions - EPA mt CO2e 55,763
2.4.3   Scope 2 GHG Emissions mt CO2e 4,258
2.5 T otal GHG Emissions (Scope 1 + Scope 2) Intensity per Billion BOE-
Mile - T otalmt CO2e/Billion 
BOE-Mile17,700,906
2.6 T otal GHG Emissions (Scope 1 + Scope 2) Intensity per EBITDA - 
T otalmt CO2e/$MM 2,484.4
2.7 Scope 1 Methane Emissions Intensity per ONE Future Methodology 0.015%
2.8 Does the company have a greenhouse gas emissions reduction 
target? Yes/No Yes
2.9 NOx Emissions Metric T ons 721
2.10 SOx Emissions Metric T ons 5
2.11 VOC Emissions Metric T ons 571
2.12 Does the company participate in an external emissions reduction 
program? Examples include ONE Future, The Environmental Part -
nership, Methane Challenge, EPA Natural Gas StarYes/No Yes
2.13 % of energy used (direct and indirect) that is renewable energy % 0.01%
2.14 Does the company seek third party data verification for any environ-
mental metrics?Yes/No YesANTERO MIDSTREAM  
EIC METRICS2020 ESG REPORT108
ASSET DIVERSIFICATION AND 
BIODIVERSITY
2.15 Does the company participate in any efforts to expand the share of 
alternative/renewable energy sources in the company's portfolio? 
If yes, please provide links to ESG reports, webpages and other 
disclosures as support.Yes/No No
2.16 Does the company have a biodiversity policy or commitment for new 
and existing assets?Yes/No No
SOCIAL
3.1 T otal Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) - employees # 0.577
3.2 T otal Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) for major growth projects - 
contractors# 0.454
3.3 Days away, restricted or transferred (DART) - employees # 0.577
3.4 Days away, restricted or transferred (DART) for major growth 
projects - contractors# -
3.5 Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) - employees # 0.000
3.6 Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) for major growth projects - 
contractors# 0.000
3.7 Fatalities - employees # 0.000
3.8 Fatalities - contractors # 0.000
3.9 Does the company have an indigenous engagement policy or 
commitment for new and existing assets?Yes/No Yes
3.10 % workforce that is female % 24
3.11 % workforce from minority groups (EEOC defined) % 6
3.12 % workforce covered under collective bargaining agreements % 0
3.13 Does the company seek third party data verification for any social 
metrics?Yes/No No
GOVERNANCE
DIVERSITY
4.1 % directors that are female % 22
4.2 % corporate officers (VP and up) that are female % 24
4.3 % directors from minority groups (EEOC defined) % -
4.4 % corporate officers (VP and up) from minority groups (EEOC 
defined)% 12
4.5 Is any director under the age of 50? Yes/No Yes
DIRECTORS
4.6 % independent directors % 78
4.7 How many directors received less than 80% votes cast in favor when 
running unopposed in last 5 years?# -
4.8 Does the company have directors with risk management experience? Yes/No Yes
COMPENSATION
4.9 Has the company received less than 70% support for Say On Pay in 
any of the last 5 years?Yes/No No2020 ESG REPORT109
4.10 What % of CEO target pay is performance-based? % 12
4.11 What % of CEO target pay is equity-based? % 79
4.12 Are there any shareholder return metrics (total return, return on 
invested capital, etc.) in any NEO equity compensation plan?Yes/No No
4.13 Is at least 10% of Named Executive Officer (NEO) short-term 
incentive (STI) or long-term incentive (LTI) linked to E or S metrics?Yes/No No
4.14 Does the company tie any amount of pay for all employees to ESG 
objectives?Yes/No No
SHARE OWNERSHIP
4.15 Have any corporate officers or directors made share purchases with 
personal funds in the last 5 years?Yes/No No
BOARD OVERSIGHT
Which of these data sets are collected and shared with board?
4.16.1 Voluntary employee turnover company wide and by at least one 
additional level (e.g. business unit, location, or division)Yes/No No
4.16.2 % of employees who participate in company sponsored matching 
gift programs and/or volunteer for corporate sponsored charitable 
eventsYes/No No
4.16.3         Gender Pay Ratio Yes/No No
4.16.4 Underlying data from an employee satisfaction survey that is 
anonymous and at least annualYes/No No
SUPPL Y CHAIN
4.17 Does the company require suppliers to sign off on the code of 
conduct or equivalent codes?Yes/No No
CYBERSECURITY
Does the company undertake any of the following to manage 
cybersecurity risk?
4.18.1         Mandatory employee training Yes/No No
4.18.2         Adherence to industry cybersecurity standards Yes/No Yes
4.18.3         Ongoing evaluation of the threat landscape Yes/No Yes
4.19 Does the company publish an annual proxy statement? Yes/No Yes2020 ESG REPORT110
Report LocationSASB Oil & Gas − 
MidstreamUN Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs)
Founder and CEO 
MessageFounder and CEO Message EM-MD-110a.2SDG 7: Affordable and Clean Energy; SDG 
8: Decent Work and Economic Growth; 
SDG 12: Responsible Consumption and 
Production; SDG 13: Climate Action
Our CompanyOur Company
ESG at Antero EM-MD-110a.2SG 12: Responsible Consumption and 
Production; SDG 13: Climate Action
Engaging Our Stakeholders
Antero's Response to 
COVID-19SDG 2: Zero Hunger; SDG 3: Good Health 
and Well-Being
Our Approach to Reporting
Report Highlights SDG 7: Affordable and Clean Energy
Energy Poverty Improving Energy Access SDG 7: Affordable and Clean Energy
SocialSocial Impact
Community Engagement
Boosting Local EconomiesSDG 4: Quality Education; Goal 8: Decent 
Work and Economic Growth; SDG 9: 
Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure
Philanthropy and 
VolunteerismSDG 2: Zero Hunger; SDG 3: Good Health 
and Well-Being
Workplace Culture SDG 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth
Retention and Recruiting SDG 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth
Diversity and Inclusion 
CommitmentSDG 8: Decent Work and Economic 
Growth; SDG 10: Reduced Inequalities
Health and Safety EM-MD-540a.4 SDG3: Good Health and Well-Being
Safety Performance and 
ImprovementEM-MD-540a.4
Safety Training and 
RecognitionEM-MD-540a.4
Emergency Preparedness EM-MD-540a.4
Contractor Safety 
ManagementEM-MD-540a.4CONTENT INDICES2020 ESG REPORT111
EnvironmentEnergy Use EM-MD-160a.1
Biodiversity ProtectionEM-MD-160a.1; EM-MD-
160a.2; EM-MD-160a.3SDG 15: Life on Land
Water Use and Conservation EM-MD-160a.1SDG 6: Clean Water and Sanitation; 
SDG 12: Responsible Consumption and 
Production
Spill PreventionEM-MD-160a.1; EM-MD-
160a.4
Waste Management EM-MD-160a.1SDG 12: Responsible Consumption and 
Production
Well Integrity
Pipeline Integrity EM-MD-160a.1
Climate / TCFDEM-MD-110a.1; EM-MD-
110a.2; EM-MD-160a.1SDG 13: Climate Action
GovernanceLeadership SDG: 5: Gender Equality
Ethical Business Practices SDG 10: Reduced Inequalities
Managing Risk
Cybersecurity
Partnering with Our Suppliers EM-MD-540a.4 SDG 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth
Performance 
Metrics2020 Data T able EM-MD-110a.1; EM-MD-
120a.1; EM-MD-540a.1; 
EM-MD-540a.2; EM-MD-
520a.1SDG 8: Decent Work and Economic 
Growth; SDG 13: Climate Action2020 ESG REPORT112
DISCLAIMER
While we believe all historical calculations presented herein were completed consistent with current industry standards, the numbers 
provided have not been audited by a third party audit firm.
 
Some of the information in this Corporate Sustainability Report may also contain “forward-looking statements. ” All statements, other than 
statements of historical fact included in this Corporate Sustainability Report, regarding our strategy, future operations and forecasts of future 
events, including our environmental goals, are forward-looking statements. Words such as “may, ” “assume, ” “forecast, ” “position, ” “predict, ” 
“strategy, ” “expect, ” “intend, ” “plan, ” “estimate, ” “anticipate, ” “believe, ” “project, ” “budget, ” “potential, ” or “continue, ” and similar expressions are 
used to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forwar d-looking statements contain such identifying words. These forward-
looking statements speak only as of the date of this report and are based on our  current expectations and assumptions about future events and 
currently available information as to the outcome and timing of future events. When considering these forward-looking statements, investors 
should keep in mind any cautionary statements in this Corporate Sustainability Report, as well as the risk factors and other cautionary 
statements in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). These forward-looking statements are management’s belief, 
based on currently available information, as to the outcome and timing of future events. Although we believe that the plans, intentions and 
expectations reflected in or suggested by the forward-looking statements are reasonable, there is no assurance that these plans, intentions 
or expectations will be achieved. Therefore, actual outcomes and results could materially differ from what is expressed, implied or forecast in 
such statements. Except as required by law, we expressly disclaim any obligation to, and do not intend, to publicly update or revise any forward-
looking statements.
 
In addition, many of the standards and metrics used in preparing this Corporate Sustainability Report continue to evolve and are based on 
management expectations and assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time of preparation, but should not be considered guarantees. 
The standards and metrics used, and the expectations and assumptions they are based on, have not been verified by any third party. In addition, 
while we seek to align these disclosures with the recommendations of va rious third-party frameworks, such as the T ask Force on Climate-
Related Financial Disclosures, we cannot guarantee strict adherence to these framework recommendations. Additionally, our disclosures 
based on these frameworks may change due to revisions in framework requirements, availability of information, changes in our business or 
applicable governmental policy, or other factors, some of which may be beyond our control.
 
Factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from t he results contemplated by such forward-looking statements include: 
—Antero Resources Corporation’s (“Antero Resources”) expected production and development plan; —Impacts to producer customers of 
insufficient storage capacity; —our ability to execute our business strategy; —our ability to obtain debt or equity financing on satisfactory 
terms to fund additional acquisitions, expansion projects, working capital requirements and the repayment or refinancing of indebtedness; 
—our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of our investments in unconsolidated affiliates; —natural gas, natural gas liquids (“NGLs”) and 
oil prices; —impacts of world health events, including the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic; —our ability to complete the construction of 
or purchase new gathering and compression, processing, water hand ling or other assets on schedule, at the budgeted cost or at all, and the 
ability of such assets to operate as designed or at expected levels; —our ability to execute our share repurchase program; —competition and 
government regulations; —actions taken by third-party producers, operators, processors and transporters; —pending legal or environmental 
matters; —costs of conducting our operations; —general economic conditions; —credit markets; —operating hazards, natural disasters, 
weather-related delays, casualty losses and other matters beyond our control; —uncertainty regarding our future operating results; and —our 
other plans, objectives, expectations and intentions contained in our filings with the SEC.
 
We caution investors that these forward-looking statements are subject to all of the risks and uncertainties incidental to our business, most 
of which are difficult to predict and are beyond our control. These risks include, but are not limited to, commodity price volatility, inflation, 
environmental risks, Antero Resources’ drilling and completion and other operating risks, regulatory changes, the uncertainty inherent in 
projecting Antero Resources’ future rates of production, cash flows and access to capital, the timing of development expenditures, impacts of 
world health events, including the COVID-19 pandemic, cybersecurity risks and the other risks described under the heading “Risk Factors” in 
our filings with the SEC.
 
Should one or more of the risks or uncertainties described therein occur , or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, our actual results 
and plans could differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. This Corporate Sustainability Report contains 
statements based on hypothetical or severely adverse scenarios and assumptions, and these statements should not necessarily be viewed as 
being representative of current or actual risk or forecasts of expected risk. While future events discussed in this report may be significant, any 
significance should not be read as necessarily rising to the level of materiality of certain disclosures included in our SEC filings. These scenarios 
cannot account for the entire realm of possible risks and have been selected based on what we believe to be a reasonable range of possible 
circumstances based on information currently available to us and the reasonableness of assumptions inherent in certain scenarios; however, 
our selection of scenarios may change over time as circumstances change.