2022 Sustainability Report 
To view the report online, please visit the APA Corporation website at apacorp.com/sustainability . 
APA Corporation Website 
apacorp.com
Media or Other  Stakeholder Inquiries 
Members of the media and other external stakeholders are welcome to contact our Communications & Public Affairs department 
with inquiries or for information about the company. These requests may be directed to media@apachecorp.com.
2022
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT :
This report includes a comprehensive view of our approach to, and 
progress on, sustainability initiatives across the company. We have 
organized this year’s report to consolidate and summarize our key 
messages and disclosures on some of the topics that matter most to both 
the company and our stakeholders in the Introduction  and ESG Overview  
sections found in the first 22 pages of the report. Data included in this 
report cover the 2021 calendar year unless otherwise noted.CHARTING A SUSTAINABLE COURSEWelcome to APA Corporation’s
Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
4
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportCONTENTS
Environment
Our People23
43INTRODUCTION 02
About APA Corporation 03
Our Operations 04
Altus Midstream 05
Letter from the CEO 06
Charting a Sustainable Course: Balancing Global 
Progress and Emissions Reduction08
ESG OVERVIEW 14
Environmental, Social and Governance                   
(ESG) Oversight14
Our Approach to ESG Matters 18
ESG Goals 20
Our Approach to Climate Scenario Analysis 22Air 24
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Performance and Goals 28
Water 30
Spill Mitigation 34
Greener Chemicals for Hydraulic Fracturing 36
Biodiversity 37
Seismicity and Oil and Gas Operations 41
Waste Management 42
Diversity and Inclusion 44
Workforce Demographics 48
Hiring Locally 50
Recruitment, Development and Engagement 51
Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
5
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportAPPENDIX 97
Key Performance Data 98
Performance Data by Country  100
Apache’s 2021 Employer Information Report EEO-1 
Consolidated Report 101
Awards and Recognitions  102
Board Matrix  103
Water Scarcity Maps  104
Our TCFD Analysis  105
AXPC ESG Metrics Template  113
Reporting Standards and Frameworks  114Community 67
Our Approach to Social Investing and            
Community Engagement68
Local Economic Impact 76
Understanding and Addressing Stakeholder Concerns 78
Human Rights 81
Governance83
Corporate Governance and Compensation Practices 84
Governance 85
Engagement 90
About This Report 93
Endnotes 9655Health    
and Safety
2021 Key Safety Metrics and Achievements 56
Our Safety Philosophy 58
Contractor Management 63
Crisis and Emergency Risk Management 65
Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
02
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportOUR VISION
To be the premier exploration and 
production company, contributing to 
global progress by helping to meet 
the world’s energy needs.
 
OUR CORE VALUES
  Safety is not negotiable and will 
not be compromised. 
 We derive benefit from the Earth 
and take our environmental 
responsibility seriously.
 Expect top performance and 
innovation.
  Seek relentless improvement  
in all facets.
 Drive to succeed with a sense  
of urgency.
 Invest in our greatest asset:  
our people.
 Foster a contrarian spirit.
 Treat our stakeholders with 
respect and dignity.
 Conduct our business with 
honesty and integrity.OUR PURPOSE 
THE WORLD 
FACES A DUAL 
CHALLENGE: 
To meet growing demand for  
energy, and to do so in a cleaner, 
more sustainable way. We 
believe society can accomplish 
both, and we strive to meet 
these challenges while creating 
value for all our stakeholders.
Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
03
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
About APA Corporation
APA Corporation (APA) subsidiaries have 
exploration and production operations   
in the U.S., Egypt’s Western Desert, and  
the U.K.’s North Sea, and exploration  
operations offshore Suriname and the 
Dominican Republic.Since 1954, our team has been unified by our values, our 
culture and our commitment to building shareholder value, 
with a shared sense of purpose that empowers every 
employee to make decisions and achieve the company’s 
goals. Our global team is brought together by a sense of 
ownership and the knowledge that the best answers win.  
We aim to be a community partner in our areas of operation, 
focused on protecting the safety and health of our 
employees, communities and the environment, while 
continuously looking for more sustainable ways to operate.
In 2021, Apache Corporation transitioned to a holding 
company structure; as a result, APA Corporation was formed 
and became the parent company publicly traded on the 
Nasdaq stock exchange.
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report 03
Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
04
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
Proved Reserves
(MMboe)Gross Acreage*
(in thousands)  Oil and NGL Production
(Mbbls/d)    Natural Gas Production
(MMcf/d)                  
U.S. 617 3,809 141 527
Egypt 197 5,300 71 264
U.K. 99 494 38 39
Other International ‒ 2,934 ‒ ‒
*Developed and undeveloped
Key
Mcf/d:  thousand cubic feet a day
MMcf/d:  million cubic feet a day
Bbls/d:  barrels a dayMbbls/d:  thousand barrels a day
Mboe: thousand barrels of oil equivalent
MMboe:  million barrels of oil equivalentOur Operations
APA maintains a diversified asset portfolio, including  
conventional and unconventional, onshore and offshore,   
oil and natural gas exploration and development interests.
In the U.S., our operations are primarily focused in the Permian Basin. We also have 
operations in East Texas, the Gulf of Mexico and along the Gulf Coast.
Internationally, we have conventional onshore assets in Egypt’s Western Desert,  
offshore assets in the U.K. North Sea, an offshore appraisal and exploration 
program in Suriname, and an offshore exploration block in the Dominican Republic.
913  MMboe
Proved Reserves2021 Financial and  
Production Highlights
250  Mbbls/d
Oil and Natural Gas Liquids (NGL) 
Production
 $6.5  billion  
Oil and Gas Revenue
830  MMcf/d
Natural Gas Production
2021 Operational Data by RegionUnited States
SurinameDominican 
RepublicEgyptUnited Kingdom
Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
05
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
Altus Midstream
In October 2021, Altus Midstream,   
APA Corporation’s midstream business, 
announced its business combination   
with privately owned EagleClaw. 
The transaction was completed in February 2022, and 
Kinetik (Nasdaq: KNTK) was formed. Kinetik assumed 
operatorship of all the Altus gathering and processing 
facilities going forward. The merger reduced APA’s  
ownership from approximately 79% to less than 20%. In 
March 2022, subsidiaries of APA sold a portion of their 
ownership in Kinetik.
Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
06
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportLetter from the CEO
DEAR APA STAKEHOLDERS, 
In 2021, we demonstrated our commitment to efficient,  
safe and responsible operations by achieving a number of 
impactful goals across the company. We progressed 
important initiatives designed to reduce our emissions and 
protect the environment, as well as to advance the health 
and wellbeing of our employees and people in the 
communities in which we operate. 
Recent global events underscore the importance of 
affordable, reliable and abundant sources of energy. People 
around the world are facing some of the highest electricity, 
fuel and heating costs in recent times, and the energy supply 
to Europe is now at risk. These drastic changes in global 
energy markets, amid calls for an energy transition, reinforce 
the need to balance affordability and reliability with efforts to 
deliver cleaner, lower-carbon solutions. 
The energy industry continues to evolve, as it has done  
many times in modern history. We believe that an  
“energy expansion,” rather than an “energy transition,”   
will be the likely outcome, in which both traditional and 
alternative energy sources will be necessary to meet  
rising global demand. Specifically, we strongly believe that 
the world will need oil and natural gas for decades to come  
and are committed to helping deliver those needed 
resources in cleaner, more innovative ways. 
For APA, reducing our GHG emissions is a top priority, and 
one we are urgently addressing. While we appreciate the 
symbolic importance of long-term, net zero commitments 
that have become common in ESG disclosures, we believe 
that absent the purchase of direct emissions offset credits or 
significant asset sales, viable pathways to delivering on these 
commitments are generally not feasible without a substantial 
step change in cost-effective, easily implementable 
technologies.  
 
Further, a proper estimate of future asset portfolio 
composition and hydrocarbon production levels is a critical 
foundation necessary for making a credible long-term, net 
zero commitment. As a company with a relatively short asset 
life (proved reserve base), it is not possible to accurately 
predict the composition of our asset portfolio, or our 
hydrocarbon production levels, two or three decades from 
now. What we can say is that it is unlikely that any of the 
wells we are drilling now, or currently have on production, 
will be producing material amounts of hydrocarbons in 
2050, or even 2040.  
Our current strategy does not contemplate APA transitioning 
to an alternative energy producer. We are a natural gas and 
oil exploration and production company, and we are 
confident that even in a net zero future, the world will 
continue to utilize natural gas and oil. 
 
As such, we will continue to focus on taking deliberate 
near- and medium-term actions that will generate 
predictable and meaningful reductions in absolute GHG 
emissions and GHG intensity from our operated assets.
We concentrate our sustainability efforts on three primary 
pillars that help focus our resources and direct our efforts 
toward activities that can deliver the most positive and 
relevant impact. These pillars — Air, Water and 
Communities+People — are the foundation for our ESG 
strategy, initiatives and compensation-linked goals.
In 2021, we eliminated routine flaring in our U.S. onshore 
operations by establishing and communicating clear 
objectives to our teams and providing them with the support 
John J. Christmann IV
Chief Executive Officer and PresidentIntroduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
07
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportJohn J. Christmann IV  
Chief Executive Officer and Presidentneeded for success. The achievement of this goal enabled  
us to reduce U.S. onshore flaring intensity to less than 1%  
of gross annual natural gas production. In 2022, we are 
focusing our attention on our international operations, with 
the cornerstone of our efforts being to reduce upstream 
flaring in Egypt by 40%.
Setting emissions goals and targets is an important part   
of our effort to continuously improve. We have been 
establishing targets for a number of years, starting with our 
commitment to the ONE Future methane intensity reduction 
target in 2015, which we achieved six years ahead of 
schedule. In 2022, we established our first long-term 
compensation-linked goal: the implementation of projects 
capable of eliminating at least 1 million tonnes of annualized 
CO2e by year-end 2024. In 2023, we will publish new 
greenhouse gas intensity targets. 
We also continue to use best practices to safeguard water 
resources both onshore and offshore. Over the last five 
years, thanks to the dedication of our team, more than 95% 
of the water we have used has been recycled, recycled 
produced water and/or nonfresh water. These goals and 
initiatives reiterate to our employees — and the world — the 
high value we place on operating in a safe, environmentally 
responsible way.
Our commitment to people begins with our employees  
and extends to our communities. We made significant 
improvements in all four categories of our key performance 
indicators for health and safety, demonstrating our 
commitment to enhancing a strong safety culture. Over the 
past year, many of our employees returned to the office, and 
we implemented a hybrid work model that integrates the 
lessons learned from two years of remote work. For 2022, 
we are building upon the success of the hybrid work model 
by initiating a Future of Work program to enhance the 
employee experience.
We are focused on creating an environment where everyone 
feels a sense of belonging and is empowered to thrive and 
grow. To advance our commitment to diversity and inclusion, 
we provided unconscious bias training for our workforce, 
expanded employee resource groups, and built an important 
partnership with the Posse Foundation to support 
underserved communities. Through Posse, we are 
supporting 60 university scholars from underserved groups 
with coaching, mentoring and networking resources, helping 
to build a future pipeline of diverse employment candidates.We continue to engage actively in our communities and  
help support the needs of the people in locations where we 
operate. Our community engagement focuses on three key 
areas of support: sustainable communities, environmental 
stewardship and access to energy. We will continue to seek 
new ways to support our local communities, such as by 
expanding our longstanding Apache Tree Grant Program, 
continuing our support of primary school education for girls 
in Egypt through our Springboard program, and helping 
underserved communities access reliable energy.
Our management and Board of Directors continue to 
provide oversight of ESG issues and work to ensure 
alignment with industry best practices. They regularly 
engage with stakeholders and incorporate their feedback 
into our management approach. We strive to identify and 
prioritize ESG opportunities that simultaneously benefit 
society and create shareholder value. 
This report details our commitments, goals and 
achievements across the globe, and outlines how we are 
continuing to responsibly meet global energy demand and 
will do so for decades to come. Through all of our 
endeavors, we are charting a steady course and positioning 
ourselves as a partner to the world by providing affordable, 
reliable and abundant sources of energy while working to 
continuously reduce our environmental footprint and 
increase our positive social impact. We are charting a steady   
course and positioning ourselves 
as a partner to the world by 
providing affordable, reliable and 
abundant sources of energy.“
”Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
08
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
BALANCING GLOBAL PROGRESS AND EMISSIONS REDUCTION
At APA, our focus is on meeting the global, dual challenge of producing the 
energy that is fundamental to human progress, while also reducing emissions. 
Natural gas and oil support thousands of systems and products we rely on 
every day, from the obvious — like electricity, heat and transportation — to the 
less obvious, such as powering food production and even the development of 
alternative energy sources. Hydrocarbons also provide raw materials for 
essential products ranging from medicine and medical devices to cellphones 
and computers.
Oil and gas play a critical role in enabling the extraction and shipping of raw 
materials needed to make solar panels, wind turbines and batteries. Further, 
natural gas is necessary to fill the void in electricity generation that cannot be 
met by these alternative energy systems when the sun is not shining and the 
wind is not blowing. Natural gas power plants in particular serve as a 
complement to such intermittent energy sources, because unlike other 
options, they can start up very quickly.CHARTING A SUSTAINABLE
COURSE
08 APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportIntroduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
09
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportAccording to the International Energy Agency (IEA),  
access to modern energy is “crucial to human wellbeing  
and to a country’s economic development.”¹ Where there  
is affordable, abundant energy, people are healthier,  
have access to better education and are given greater 
opportunities to elevate their families to a higher standard  
of living.
Today and tomorrow, we face the challenge of meeting the 
world’s rising energy demand while reducing emissions.   
Oil and natural gas exist in abundance throughout the globe, 
and their continued development can provide affordable, 
reliable energy to billions across the world.
At APA, we strive to increase energy access by producing 
the oil and natural gas people need to thrive, and to do so in 
a cleaner, more sustainable way. By establishing ambitious, 
short-term goals as part of our long-term strategy to address 
environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues, APA is 
taking immediate action to further global progress while 
remaining accountable in fulfilling rigorous and timely ESG 
strategies, execution and disclosure (p. 20).Energy Security — Closing the Gap
Over the last century, access to energy has elevated the 
quality of life for billions of people around the world. 
However, stark challenges remain in many developing 
nations. Nearly 759 million people lack access to electricity, 
and about 2.6 billion, or one-third of the world’s population,
live without clean cooking fuels and facilities. Nearly  
940 million people would need to be connected to 
electricity by 2030 to achieve universal energy access.²
Energy poverty, which can be defined as a lack of access  
to modern, affordable and reliable energy sources, is not 
just felt in the developing world. Tightening energy supply, 
as witnessed in 2020 and 2021, coupled with recent 
geopolitical tensions, has underscored the importance of 
maintaining access to sustainable energy.
This year U.S. inflation hit a 30-year high, with energy prices 
experiencing one of the largest percentage increases.³ The 
repercussions took a toll on the American population, with at 
least one in four Americans struggling to pay their energy bill 
in 2021, often reducing or skipping basic expenses to cover 
energy costs.⁴
Europeans experienced similar financial constraints, feeling 
the impact of high energy prices even more acutely. In 2021, 
the U.K. Consumer Prices Index rose by 4.9%, on top of the 
4.8% increase already witnessed in 2020.⁵ In 2022, the 
British energy regulator Ofgem raised the annual energy 
price cap by £693 (or $900) per 2,900kWh of electricity, 
12,000kWh of gas and 4,200kWh of electricity during 
off-peak hours, largely due to market price increases 
stemming from underlying supply and demand imbalances 
and also geopolitical circumstances.⁶ Germany, which 
turned primarily to coal when energy alternatives proved 
unable to meet demand,⁷ witnessed an 18% increase in 
energy costs in 2021, according to the nation’s Federal 
Statistical Office, Destatis.⁸ Clearly, developed nations are 
not exempt from energy access and affordability challenges, 
especially amid the perfect storm of rising inflation and 
geopolitical tensions in energy-producing regions.
Lack of clean cooking fuels is an even more widespread 
problem, affecting one-third of the world’s population and 
creating significant indoor air quality and health issues.⁹ 
Emissions from wood, dung and indoor coal usage are  
linked to 2.5 million premature deaths annually.¹⁰ The 
burden to find cooking fuel sources often falls to women  
and children — having a greater impact not only on their 
health but on their ability to pursue education and to work 
outside the home.¹¹Today and tomorrow, we face 
the challenge of meeting the 
world’s rising energy demand 
while reducing emissions.  “
”
Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
10
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
Closing the energy security gap as the global population 
rises and energy demand continues to increase is a 
worthwhile and challenging task. Oil and natural gas 
currently comprise 68% of U.S. energy consumption¹² and 
over half of all global energy consumption.¹³ The world 
cannot affordably or practically decarbonize by eliminating 
the production of such efficient and affordable energy 
sources.¹⁴ Communities around the world require a level of 
accessibility and reliability that only oil and natural gas can 
provide, as longer-cycle alternative energy and carbon 
reduction technology investments continue to be phased in. 
To support global progress and ensure that the most 
vulnerable populations are not left further behind, innovative 
solutions that limit the environmental impact of all energy 
sources while maintaining necessary levels of oil and gas 
production will be vital in the coming decades.
Energy Expansion and the Ongoing  
Need for Natural Gas and Oil
The future of energy and the changing dynamics and mix  
of resources is commonly referred to as the “energy 
transition.” While we agree that our energy systems are 
continuously evolving and changing, we see phrases like 
“energy expansion” or “energy evolution” as a more accurate 
depiction of how our energy future will unfold. We will  
need to harness the full power of human intellect to  
reduce emissions while delivering all forms of energy 
production in both a pragmatic and forward-thinking 
manner, encouraging innovation rather than elimination.
Looking ahead at the IEA’s Stated Policies Scenario, oil and 
natural gas will continue to make up 50% of the world 
energy supply in 2050.¹⁵ The uses for oil go far beyond 
transportation and heating. Oil provides the raw materials 
for a wide variety of products, from everyday items such as 
fabric, soap, cellphones and beauty products to life-saving 
medical devices. Oil also goes into the fabrication of solar 
panels, wind turbines and batteries, ultimately supporting 
the expansion of additional sources of energy.¹⁶ Even in the 
more aggressive scenarios outlined by the IEA, oil and gas 
will continue to play a substantial role, comprising 42% in 
the Announced Pledges Scenario, 30% in the Sustainable 
Development Scenario, and 19% in the Net Zero Scenario.¹⁷ 
Natural gas demand increases in every scenario over the 
next five years, according to the IEA.¹⁸ This will be especially 
true for developing economies in Asia, where natural gas 
can serve as a reliable, cleaner alternative to other sources.¹⁹ POWERING EVERYDAY LIFE
Oil and gas support a wide range of products and 
activities that improve the quality of life for billions of 
people across the globe, including the following:
Fabric and clothing Agriculture
Soap and beauty Plastic materials
Cellphones 
and computers Medical devices
Construction Solar panels
Wind turbines Batteries
Transportation Heating
Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
11
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportThe critical role for natural gas in providing reliable and 
affordable energy, while also reducing emissions, has been 
clearly demonstrated in the United States over the last 15 
years. According to the U.S. Energy Information 
Administration (EIA), between 2005 and 2019, the U.S. 
electric power sector, despite significant overall energy 
output growth, decreased its CO 2 emissions by 32%. This 
was primarily driven by a shift from coal to natural gas in the 
electricity generation mix,²⁰ reducing U.S. CO 2 emissions 
from electricity generation to the lowest levels in a 
generation.²¹ This serves as an example for other nations 
seeking cleaner energy sources to meet increasing demand.
Recently, as global consumption has recovered from the 
impact of the pandemic, demand has increased for all 
energy sources, including coal, which is considered both 
reliable and affordable but is far more emissions-intensive 
than natural gas. In 2021, global coal consumption grew by 
an estimated 4.5%,²² raising demand back above 2019 
levels, particularly in China, India and Germany.
This international “return to coal” began to offset some of 
the positive environmental impacts and absolute 
greenhouse gas emission reductions realized over the last 
15 years in the U.S. This pushed global coal-related 
emissions 0.4% above 2019 levels, to just under the global 
high in coal-related CO 2 emissions seen in 2014.²³ As 
witnessed in the U.S., natural gas can serve as a reliable 
alternative to coal, reversing the global emission trends of 
the last few years.
In time, the global energy mix is likely to reflect this shift, 
with natural gas playing an integral part in successfully 
meeting demand, while fueling human progress in a 
sustainable manner.
Innovation, rather than elimination, can unlock monumental 
energy potential that meets the dual challenge of increasing 
supplies while reducing environmental impacts.An “All-of-the-Above ” Energy Future
As the global energy mix continues to evolve, the energy 
industry is working to reduce the environmental impact of all 
sources. The future of energy will require an all-of-the-above 
approach to addressing the dual challenge of meeting global 
energy demand and reducing emissions. It is highly likely 
that natural gas and oil will be part of the global energy mix 
for decades to come, with natural gas serving as a cleaner 
alternative to traditional sources, including coal and 
firewood, and with oil remaining an indispensable 
component of the transportation and materials sectors.
At APA, we work with our industry partners to advance 
progress on these challenges. Our team of rigorous, 
innovative engineers, scientists and other professionals is 
determined to make a positive difference by providing these 
essential resources in cleaner, more sustainable ways. We 
will continue to invest in technology and work to develop 
innovative solutions that minimize emissions, conserve 
water and protect habitats, while safely producing energy  
to elevate people and families around the world.
Global Energy Poverty   
by the Numbers
2.5  million
premature deaths are linked to
emissions from wood, dung and
indoor coal usage annually.¹⁰
759  million
people lack access to electricity.²
2.6  billion
people live without clean cooking fuels 
and facilities, which is one-third of the 
world's population.²
Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
12
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
Growing up in Abidjan, Ivory Coast, Stéphane Aka, APA’s director of Suriname Planning, 
was not often found wanting. Although his home country had experienced significant 
political turbulence throughout the late 1990s and early 2000s, Stéphane was one of the 
fortunate ones — he had consistent access to electricity, clean running water and 
transportation. Life in the nation’s largest city was comfortable. Visiting his family in the 
Ivorian countryside, however, was an entirely different story.
Nestled behind a moatlike lake, the village of 
N’Gokro isn’t easily accessed by modern 
modes of transport. Instead, visitors must 
cross the lake that surrounds its borders by 
small boat or canoe, often bumping into local 
fishermen in the process.
“In the summertime, we would visit — it was 
fairly apparent that you were in a different 
place,” Stéphane said. “It’s day and night. No 
propane; only firewood was used for cooking, 
typically over a clay pot.”
Although N’Gokro has changed over the past five years, with recent access to electricity 
becoming a reality for residents, gas stoves are still not widely available, with traditional 
clay pots and firewood serving as primary cooking tools. The lack of roadways and 
infrastructure remains the same, making it difficult for local commerce to flourish.
Stéphane’s cousin, a local fisherman, still depends on his daily catch to secure his 
livelihood. If a bridge were to connect N’Gokro to nearby villages, or if cars and the energy 
to fuel them were more accessible, Stéphane believes this could directly raise the 
standard of living for many people like his cousin.
“Once you have expanded electricity and energy access, then you could build further,” 
Stéphane said. “The pace of progress tends to be measured in years, so I can only hope 
that it takes place sooner rather than later.”
Much work remains to be done in N’Gokro and the Ivory Coast at large. Progress has been 
made, but most Ivorians living in rural areas still lack access to electricity, transportation 
and an abundance of clean, running water. Affordable, reliable energy is sorely needed, a 
fact Stéphane now reflects on after working in energy exploration and production.
“In parts of my country, energy access is a tangible reality — it resonates differently when I 
put it back into perspective from that village,” Stéphane said. “Initially, I didn’t make such a 
connection, but it’s absolutely fundamental.”
Stéphane Aka
Director of Suriname PlanningENERGY ACCESS IN THE IVORY COAST
N’GokroIvory CoastIntroduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
13
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportGrowing up in the town of Ranchi, India, in the 1970s and ’80s, Rana Roy, APA vice 
president of Drilling, Completions and Workovers, faced numerous energy security 
challenges. Electrical power was intermittent at best, lasting only six or seven hours each 
day. His family’s meals were typically cooked over coal or firewood, producing toxic fumes 
that were trapped in their small apartment kitchen. 
As a child, Rana recalls being awoken by a stubborn cough each morning, likely due to 
smoke inhalation from the coal-fired stove. 
“Smoke would fill the small flat every morning and it would be everywhere,” Rana said. “At 
times, there would be coal or firewood shortages, making cooking a luxury. Energy 
resources were scarce, so we had to work with what we had.” 
It was not until Rana was in high school that his family was able to access liquefied 
petroleum gas (LPG) to replace coal and firewood in their kitchen. Residents from Ranchi 
and surrounding villages waited in never-ending lines for the coveted LPG cylinders, 
knowing the difference cleaner energy would make in their lives.
Soon, quality of life drastically improved for both Rana’s family and communities in 
surrounding areas that were able to access clean cooking fuel. Forty years later, Ranchi 
has blossomed into a bustling city and industrial center, boasting a vibrant railway station 
and software technology parks, and was recently named the capital of Jharkhand state. 
Rana has witnessed this transformation during visits to India, where his family still resides. 
“It’s astounding to see the change that has taken place in Ranchi and surrounding areas 
since my childhood. The city has made leaps and bounds that were hard to imagine 40 
years ago,” he said. “I think that affordable access to energy plays a very important role in 
uplifting people’s lives. I’m deeply proud of the work I do in an industry that positively 
impacts generations of people, myself included.” 
ENERGY TRANSFORMING LIVES IN EASTERN INDIA
Rana Roy
Vice President of Drilling, Completions and Workovers
Ranchi
India
Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
14
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportBoard Oversight of ESG
We know that culture — and performance — start at   
the top, so our Board of Directors is actively involved in  
ESG issues. The Board regularly reviews management 
reports and welcomes external perspectives on a range   
of sustainability issues, including environmental, health  
and safety performance; climate-related risks and  
opportunities, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and  
water usage; succession planning; diversity and inclusion; 
and cybersecurity. To foster continuous ESG engagement 
and education, our Board members routinely pursue 
opportunities to remain well informed on recent 
developments. Although most in-person conferences  
and meetings were postponed or canceled in 2021 due   
to the ongoing pandemic, our Board has participated in 
virtual conferences and ESG webinars when practicable. 
The Board also invites external experts on ESG issues to  
provide ongoing education, multiple points of view and  
fresh insights.
Board members, including our CEO and president, also 
engage directly with ESG-focused shareholders to gain 
external perspectives on key ESG issues. They have also 
attended and spoken at ESG conferences, enabling further 
in-person discussion of these issues.Board ESG Framework
APA’s Board has three standing committees, each devoted 
to a separate aspect of risk oversight — the Corporate 
Responsibility, Governance & Nominating (CRG&N) 
Committee; the Audit Committee; and the Management 
Development & Compensation (MD&C) Committee. The 
CRG&N Committee oversees the company’s efforts on ESG 
issues. This committee’s annual calendar includes 
designated meetings for in-depth discussion on various  
ESG topics, including human rights, governance matters that 
impact the company and the energy industry, and this 
report. The Audit Committee regularly reviews matters 
related to cybersecurity. The MD&C Committee oversees 
succession planning, executive compensation, diversity and 
inclusion, and evaluation and scoring of overall corporate 
performance metrics.
Prioritizing and Managing ESG Initiatives 
APA commits considerable time, energy and capital to 
reduce its impact on the environment and to manage   
the evolving opportunities and risks associated with  
climate change. We engage every level of the organization 
and all functional areas of the business through a   
“wellhead-to-boardroom” approach, which aligns our 
collective interests and incentivizes top performance and 
accountability. We underpin this alignment by linking 20% 
of all employees’ annual incentive compensation directly   
to ESG-related goals, including safety performance.
Compensation-linked ESG goals for 2022 include both 
short- and long-term targets.Environmental, Social and 
Governance (ESG) Oversight
THIRD-PARTY ENGAGEMENT
The following are some of the key organizations with which we engage on ESG issues:
As You Sow McDonald Observatory
The Aspen Institute The Mitchell Foundation
Ceres National Fish and Wildlife Foundation (NFWF)
Environmental Defense Fund (EDF) The Nature Conservancy
The Environmental Partnership ONE Future Coalition
Interfaith Center on Corporate  Responsibility (ICCR) Sustainability Accounting Standards Board
Above:  We partnered with the 
NFWF to improve habitats for 
pronghorn and other species of 
the Pecos Watershed.Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
15
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportBOARD ESG FRAMEWORK
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report 15ESG Experts Invited to
 Speak to the Board
Climate change  
Energy and geopolitics
CybersecurityOne-on-one shareholder meetings  
Women in Governance Lunch  
Governance Week  
Society for Corporate Governance  
Industry ESG RoundtablesESG EngagementESG topic Identification and educationAssessment, measurement and reportingExternal ESG Engagement and Education
ESG Management Committee, Asset-Level Teams 
and Corporate FunctionsAPA’s Internal ESG ResourcesAPA’s Full Board
Reported on and/or 
Discussed at Least Annually:
Compliance update  
Corporate risk management  
Diversity and inclusion
Ethics Hotline   reports
Information technology/cybersecurity
Monitoring of human rights  
Political contributions and lobbying expenses  
Shareholder engagement
Succession planningReported on and/or 
Discussed at Every Meeting
Current ESG trends
Environmental, health and safety metrics
Executive compensation
Corporate Responsibility, 
Governance &  
Nominating Committee
Oversees the nomination of 
Directors, the annual Board 
evaluation process, corporate 
governance and ESG issues, as 
well as the Sustainability Report.Oversees the integrity of the 
company’s financial statements, 
compliance with legal and 
regulatory requirements, financial 
risk management, Internal Audit 
function and independent auditors, 
and accounting and financial 
reporting, among other duties.Audit Committee Management Development & 
Compensation Committee
Oversees compensation, 
development and succession 
planning for executives and seeks 
continuous improvement in the 
diversity and inclusion practices 
used in developing and deploying 
these processes.  Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
16
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportESG MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
In early 2020, we created a dedicated, cross-functional 
team to evaluate ESG trends and develop a strategic 
framework to assist the company in focusing on its most 
significant ESG processes and outcomes. The team, made 
up of five officers overseeing environment, health and 
safety; corporate communications and public affairs; 
investor relations; corporate governance and human 
resources, focuses on strategic ESG planning and 
communications, and on driving key initiatives across the 
organization. Regularly scheduled meetings are held to 
discuss ESG trends, to develop tangible, target-based goals 
and resource recommendations, and to review progress and 
make adjustments where necessary. 
Under the leadership of the chief financial officer, the 
committee’s scope was expanded in 2021. The committee 
targets at least two meetings per month, and is tasked with 
integrating our ESG priorities and communications across 
the business.ESG Engagement 
To better understand external perspectives and concerns, 
members of APA’s Board, executive team and ESG 
Management Committee regularly engage with a wide range 
of stakeholders, including shareholders, employees, 
customers, suppliers, government agencies and regulators, 
nongovernmental organizations, and others on a variety of 
ESG issues, including GHG emissions, climate change-
related risks, corporate governance and human capital 
management. (Read more about our approach to 
stakeholder and shareholder engagement in the Governance 
section starting on p. 90.)
ESG MANAGEMENT COMPONENTS
Our ESG Management team is made up of five strategic groups that assist our business with ESG issues:
Environment,
Health and SafetyCorporate Communications 
and Public Affairs Investor Relations
Corporate Governance Human ResourcesIntroduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
17
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report 17
ESG ENGAGEMENT
CYCLEEstablishing Annual Corporate ESG 
Goals and StrategyPublic  
Disclosures
Stakeholder  
Feedback
Periodic Materiality  
Assessment
Internal Strategy  
AdjustmentAnnual ESG  
Meeting with CEOBoard-Level and Executive  
Team Outreach
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report 17Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
18
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
Our greatest contribution to society is 
providing affordable, reliable and responsibly 
produced energy.
We believe that hydrocarbon production and consumption 
will remain a significant component of the global energy 
landscape for decades to come, and within that context, 
APA Corporation operates with a sense of urgency to 
support carbon management and the preservation of finite 
natural resources. We are committed to delivering our 
products in an environmentally and socially responsible 
manner, and to operating our company so that it is 
financially stable and successful in a carbon-constrained 
future. We believe it is important to thoroughly understand, 
discuss and address the environmental externalities and 
risks associated with all forms of energy production and use, 
and not simply those associated with hydrocarbons. Only 
through this lens can the world properly assess the complex 
challenges of the energy transition.
With employees, assets and operations on four continents, 
we recognize the importance of being a global steward and 
community partner. We help meet the world’s energy needs, 
which enables and empowers global progress and 
contributes directly and indirectly to many of the United 
Nations Sustainable Development Goals (U.N. SDGs), 
including reducing poverty, ensuring access to affordable 
and clean energy, and promoting sustainable economic 
growth. Since 2020, we have aligned 100% of our 
community giving (see pp. 68-73) with the U.N. SDGs, to 
help us identify our greatest potential for positive impact. An 
SDG index in the Appendix demonstrates how our business 
further aligns with the U.N. SDGs (see pp. 129-130.)APA recognizes the importance of adding value for all 
stakeholders and incorporating those views into the 
company’s strategy. We undertook an extensive materiality 
assessment in 2021 to learn from a cross-section of our key 
stakeholders, as well as leading thinkers in the energy, 
environmental and social policy spaces. We have used this 
information to continue to enhance our ESG processes and 
initiatives (see p. 94-95.)
ESG Pillars and Performance
We have three primary pillars on which we concentrate our 
resources, focus our attention, measure performance and 
maximize our positive impact. These pillars — Air, Water and 
Communities+People — serve as the foundation for our ESG 
strategy, initiatives and compensation-linked goals. (See 
progress across our ESG pillars on p. 19.) Our Approach to ESG Matters
THE UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE
DEVELOPMENT GOALS
100%
of our community giving has been 
aligned with the U.N. SDGs since 2020.Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
19
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
PROGRESS ACROSS OUR ESG PILLARS
reduction in flaring emissions, 
totaling 540,000 tonnes CO 2e 
since 2017.27%
piloted real-time GHG emissions 
monitoring in Permian Basin 
facilities in 2021.Monitoring Technologyreduction in Scope 1 emissions, 
totaling 1.3 million tonnes CO 2e 
since 2019.18%
trees have been donated since 
the launch of the Apache Tree Grant 
Program in 2005.4.8 million
reduction in Scope 2 emissions, 
totaling 350,000 tonnes CO 2e 
since 2019. 51%Air
of the water used in our U.S. hydraulic 
fracturing operations in 2021 was  
nonfresh or recycled produced water. 97%
of the total water utilized for production 
operations since 2017 has been 
recycled or nonfresh.86%
a 2021 goal to reduce U.S. total 
operational water usage to comprise  
less than 20% fresh water.AchievedWater
of our total global vendor spend in 
2021 was with geographically local 
suppliers and contractors.44%
girls in Egypt have learned to read  
and write in schools we have supported 
since 2004.~15,000
of U.S. employees self-identified  
as ethnic minorities, up from 25%  
in 2017. 34%Communities+People
Primary Workforce Safety Goals             Below Target           Met Target            Above Target
Days Away, Restricted or Transferred  
(DART) Rate of 0.13 per 200,000 hours 
worked in 2021.0.13
Total Recordable Incident Rate   
(TRIR) of 0.26 per 200,000  
hours worked in 2021. 0.26
Vehicle Incident Rate (VIR) of 0.53  
per million miles driven in 2021. 0.53
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report 19our goal to end routine flaring in U.S.  
onshore operations in October 2021, 
three months ahead of schedule.AchievedIntroduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
20
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportAt APA, we prioritize near-term, actionable initiatives over long-term promises without clear pathways for delivery. Our emphasis 
is on generating timely and impactful ESG outcomes. Our annual incentive compensation-linked goals include quantitative and 
qualitative operational, financial, health and safety, and other ESG objectives that drive both near- and long-term performance.ESG Goals
2021 ESG GOALS AND ACHIEVEMENTS
Freshwater   
Utilization Reduction
 Reduced freshwater utilization  
to a rate of 3%, achieving 100% of  
target of less than 20% freshwater 
consumption in U.S. operations  
(see p. 32) .
 Introduced a global mentorship 
program to promote access to 
leadership and career development.
 Conducted our annual pay  
equity analysis.
 Expanded community outreach  
efforts to continue our support of 
underserved populations.
ORGANIZATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
During 2021, we launched an updated 
approach to global performance 
management, focusing on development, 
which included a detailed framework for 
core, leadership and technical 
competencies. In addition, the company 
allocated additional resources to  
support employees in their personal  
and professional development   
(see pp. 51-53) , including: Utilized third-party online   
training offerings.
 Partnered with a leading HR 
consultancy to provide leadership and 
personal development coaching.
 Offered ongoing education for people 
leaders around our leadership 
competencies and behaviors.
 Provided annual compliance, antitrust, 
bribery, corruption, and code of 
business conduct and ethics training, 
required for all employees.
 Delivered cybersecurity training 
focusing on keeping company and 
employee personal information safe.Foster a More Inclusive Culture Where All Employees Can Thrive
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
In 2021, we further strengthened our 
commitment to diversity and inclusion 
(D&I) with the following key 
accomplishments (see pp. 44-47):
 Launched annual mandatory D&I 
training for all our people leaders  
and assigned it as recommended  
training for all employees across our 
global locations.
 Refreshed the Global D&I Council to 
obtain our employees’ perspectives 
and feedback on initiatives.
 Increased employee engagement by 
promoting employee resource groups.
 Launched global employee 
engagement campaigns to celebrate 
the diversity of our employees.Key Performance Indicators 
in Safety Metrics
  Achieved incident rates at least 38% 
below target in each of our Total 
Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR),
 Days Away, Restricted and Transfer
 Rate (DART), Severe Injury and
 Fatality (SIF) and Vehicle Incident
 Rate (VIR) metrics. 
  Achieved an approximately 45% 
reduction in recordable incidents 
year-over-year.
  Severe injuries and driving-related 
incidents were significantly reduced, 
to their lowest levels in 10 years. 
 (For more information, see the Health 
and Safety section on pp. 56-62) .U.S. Onshore Routine 
Flaring and Flaring Intensity
  Eliminated U.S. onshore routine 
flaring, achieving 100% of target by 
October 2021 (see p. 28) .
 Delivered year-end U.S. flaring 
intensity at 0.30%, achieving 100% 
of target of below 1% flaring intensity 
(see p. 28) .
20 APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportIntroduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
21
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report2022 ESG GOALS
People
 Develop and implement a Future of Work strategy  
inclusive of working model, workplace and technology 
enhancements.Emissions Reduction
  40%  reduction of upstream flaring  
in Egypt by year-end 2022.NEAR-TERM TARGETS:
LONG-TERM GOAL:Supplier Diversity
  Establish by year-end a supplier diversity program  
and externally report Tier 1 spend by category.Safety
  Reduce our Total Recordable Incident Rate  
(TRIR) and Severe Incidents and Fatalities  
(SIF) events .
Emissions Reduction
  Deliver projects that eliminate more than  1 million 
tonnes of CO 2e emissions annually by year-end 2024.
Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
22
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportOur Approach to Climate 
Scenario Analysis
Our Climate Statement
Climate change is an important issue for our company and 
our stakeholders. We are committed to reducing our 
emissions while helping to meet increasing global energy 
demand in affordable and reliable ways. 
Our products underpin the global economy, elevate billions 
to higher standards of living, and enable innovation and 
practical expansion of other energy sources.
We work every day to reduce our environmental footprint, 
ensure the safety of our operations and partner with our 
communities to create long-lasting value. We are focused  
on opportunities where we can have a meaningful impact  
on our key ESG focus areas of Air, Water and Communities+ 
People. To drive continuous progress, we set compensation-
linked targets that will reduce our environmental impact;   
for example, routine flaring, emissions reductions and 
freshwater usage.
Task Force on Climate-related   
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Scenario 
Planning Framework
Scenario and portfolio planning are part of our ongoing 
business planning and risk management processes. We 
consider a range of pricing scenarios when forming our 
long-term investment and development plans, including 
scenarios in a carbon-constrained world, that assess the 
potential climate-related risks and opportunities influencing 
fossil fuel supply and demand. However, to better 
understand and prepare for potential risks and opportunities 
associated with climate change, in 2021, we undertook an 
expanded, climate-focused scenario planning analysis in 
alignment with the TCFD reporting framework. This analysis 
includes forecasts of future demand and pricing in energy 
markets, as well as changes in government regulations and 
policy that might occur based on different future scenarios. 
Given the dynamic nature of our business, APA traditionally 
performs annual scenario analyses with five-year time 
horizons, which includes the input of experts from several 
internal functional areas. However, we appreciate the value 
of climate-related financial analysis with longer-term supply/
demand, regulatory frameworks and pricing taken into 
consideration, as recommended by TCFD. In 2021, we incorporated these longer-term views into our planning 
process, using external analysis for demand scenarios, 
carbon pricing and comparison-pricing scenarios. These 
external cases are then compared to our internally prepared 
base-case pricing analysis, averaged out to 2040.
Specifically, we included the following International Energy 
Agency (IEA) scenarios from the 2021 World Economic 
Outlook (WEO) report: the Stated Policies Scenario (STEPS), 
Announced Pledges Scenario (APS) and the Sustainable 
Development Scenario (SDS). Under all future pricing 
scenarios considered, the break-even prices referenced in 
each of APA’s core areas of operations indicate the long-
term potential for generation of positive returns. (For more 
detailed discussion of scenarios, please read our 
comprehensive TCFD-aligned analysis on pp. 105-112.)
We work every day to reduce our 
environmental footprint, ensure 
the safety of our operations and 
partner with our communities to 
create long-lasting value.“
”Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
23
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
ENVIRONMENT
Protecting the environment is essential to the work 
we do every day. We are committed to utilizing 
innovative technology to help us do this, and are 
developing and implementing industry-leading 
methods for reducing emissions, conserving water 
and protecting habitats. Our efforts to reduce venting 
and flaring, recycle and reuse water, and conduct 
predevelopment planning in biodiverse areas all 
contribute to more sustainable operations.
All employees and contractors are expected to 
uphold our commitment to environmental 
conservation, which is supported by a comprehensive 
team of Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) 
professionals throughout the organization. All APA 
operating areas are required to follow our worldwide 
EHS standards, which provide an overarching 
framework for conducting business safely and in a 
way that protects our workforce, communities and 
the environment.
Air 24
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Performance      
and Goals28
Water 30
Spill Mitigation 34
Greener Chemicals for Hydraulic Fracturing 36
Biodiversity 37
Seismicity and Oil and Gas Operations 41
Waste Management 42
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report 23Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
Air
Greenhouse gas (GHG) and methane emissions are important issues for our company. 
These emissions represent a climate change-related risk that could both shape and 
affect our business over time.
 Emissions
We are committed to helping address the challenges that 
climate change presents, while also continuing to produce 
reliable, affordable energy to help meet the world’s needs 
and drive global prosperity. Reducing emissions from our 
operations and collaborating with others across our value 
chain to develop better approaches to emissions reduction 
and leak detection are key elements of this commitment. 
REDUCING GHG EMISSIONS
We use a range of methods to minimize GHG emissions. For 
example, we carefully design and engineer new facilities to 
minimize emissions, implement preventive maintenance 
programs for existing infrastructure, and work to optimize 
the efficiency of our operations and minimize gas venting. 
We adhere to applicable design standards, follow recognized 
engineering best practices, and use equipment specially 
designed to perform in severe service conditions where 
necessary and appropriate.
Reducing Flaring
Last year, we committed to eliminating routine flaring  
across our U.S. onshore operations by year-end 2021  
and to reducing our overall flaring intensity to less than   
1% of the gas we produce. Both of these goals were  
directly linked to the annual incentive compensation for 
management and all employees, and we achieved both 
ahead of schedule. Additional information regarding our 
flaring and related emissions reduction goals can be found 
on our Environment webpage. Leak Detection and Repair
Leak detection and inspections to reduce emissions and 
ensure compliance with applicable rules and regulations are 
an ongoing part of employees’ on-site activities. We strive to 
repair leaks at the time they are detected. When this is not 
possible, the leak is repaired when the required resources 
become available and safe operating conditions can be 
ensured. Our preventive maintenance programs help to 
minimize leaks from equipment and preemptively identify 
maintenance issues or improperly functioning equipment by 
using historical operational data to facilitate proactive 
upkeep, repair and replacement schedules.
Our employees proactively engage in asset integrity 
inspections in accordance with APA Work Rule 11 and 
worldwide environmental, health and safety (EHS) 
standards. Field employees are trained to perform olfactory, 
visual and audio inspections for possible leaks as a part of 
their overall competency training, as described in our   
air quality summary .
Reducing emissions from our 
operations and collaborating  
with others across our value chain 
to develop better approaches to 
emissions reduction and leak 
detection are key elements of  
our commitment.“
”
24 APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportIntroduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
25
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportAs a part of our leak detection and repair (LDAR) program, 
we use optical gas imaging (OGI) cameras to examine newly 
constructed facilities and identify and address leaks as the 
facilities come online. Existing facilities that are a part of the 
LDAR program are reexamined at least twice per year with 
an OGI camera. OGI inspections focus on components of  
a facility that have the potential for leakage, including 
actuators, flanges, manifolds, pressure vessels, tanks and 
valves. In 2021, 222 facilities were surveyed by OGI 
cameras as part of our LDAR program.
We also use OGI cameras to assess equipment as a  
part of risk-based mechanical integrity programs and to  
inspect wellheads, compressor stations and buried pipeline 
routes near residential communities and public facilities.   
Employees and contractors using OGI cameras are  
trained and certified to interpret survey results and initiate 
next steps to determine the nature and source of an 
identified leak.Reducing Venting
We seek to minimize emissions by reducing the venting   
of gas. Also, we conduct reduced-emission completions,   
a process that captures gas produced during well 
completions and workovers so it can be processed for  
sale rather than flared.
222
facilities surveyed by OGI cameras as 
part of our U.S. onshore LDAR program 
in 2021.Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
26
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportElectrification
Where we have access to the electrical grid at well sites  
and facilities, we prefer to power our operations using 
electricity rather than internal combustion engines, thereby 
reducing fuel consumption, noise pollution and on-site  
GHG emissions. We continue to research and identify  
ways we can electrify our operations. APA is proactively 
engaging with stakeholders to improve our environmental 
performance, including by evaluating the role that  
renewable resources could play in electrifying our 
operations to support further reduction of our Scope 2 
(indirect) emissions.
OUR EMISSIONS PERFORMANCE
2021 Emissions Reduction Activities
In 2021, our overall emissions performance  
improvements can be attributed both to optimizations of   
our operational profile and to the implementation of 
operational enhancements. For example, in several of our 
operations, we:
  Increased the use of electricity from the grid to power well 
sites and facilities, replacing diesel or gas-fired engines.
  Focused on evaluating infield equipment usage with 
operational needs, in order to identify lower-emitting 
power sources, such as solar-powered generators.
  Increased access to gathering and pipeline  
infrastructure, resulting in less flaring and trucking- 
related emissions.
  Utilized technology to monitor operational conditions.
(See pp. 28-29 and 98-99 for more details on our emissions 
performance over the past five years.)We committed to eliminating 
routine flaring in our U.S. onshore 
operations by year-end 2021, and 
achieved this crucial goal three 
months ahead of schedule.“
”Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
27
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportWe are participating in industry partnerships focused on 
reducing methane emissions by setting and meeting 
voluntary goals and commitments to drive performance 
improvements.
We are a charter member of the ONE Future Coalition , a 
group of more than 50 companies that came together with 
the goal of reducing methane losses to less than 1% of total 
U.S. methane production across the value chain by 2025.  
The natural gas value chain is defined as operations in the 
production, gathering and boosting, transmission and 
storage, gas processing and distribution segments.We are also a member of The American Petroleum Institute’s  
The Environmental Partnership , a group of more than 90  
oil and gas companies working together to address 
environmental challenges and improve environmental 
performance in our industry. As a member of the partnership, 
APA has made and is implementing three commitments to 
help reduce emissions:
1.  Implement a leak detection program , including ongoing 
monitoring and timely repair of fugitive emissions, 
utilizing detection methods and technologies such as OGI 
cameras at all relevant sites by 2025. As part of this 
program, we commit that repairs of any identified leaks 
will be completed within 60 days, unless a delay is 
required until the next scheduled shutdown or pending 
the availability of necessary parts. Since year-end 2020, 
100% of our applicable U.S. sites had LDAR monitoring in 
place, and in 2021, we conducted surveys at 222 sites. 
2.  Replace, remove or retrofit high-bleed pneumatic 
controllers with low- or zero-emitting devices  by 2025, 
using alternative technologies such as continuous-low-
bleed controllers, intermittent-vent controllers, 
electrically operated controllers and valve actuator or 
mechanical controllers, or compressed air to replace 
natural gas as the motive gas. We are working to reduce 
the number of high-bleed pneumatic controllers in our 
onshore U.S. operations by replacing them with lower-
emission alternatives.
3.  By 2025, implement a monitoring program to minimize 
emissions  associated with the unloading of liquids that 
can build up and restrict natural gas flow, particularly as  
a well ages. CASE STUDY
Reducing Methane Emissions 
Through Industrywide Initiatives 
27 APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report100%
of our applicable U.S. sites had LDAR 
monitoring in place since 2020.Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
28
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
19% 
Methane
1.13 million tonnes CO 2e1% 
Nitrous Oxide
40,000 tonnes CO 2e2021 GHG EmissionsWe calculate emissions from our drilling, completion, production, gathering  
and boosting, and gas processing operations. We monitor a range of 
emission sources — including combustion, flaring, venting and fugitive 
emissions — to determine our overall GHG inventory.
The GHGs included in our GHG inventory calculations are carbon  
dioxide (CO 2), methane (CH 4) and nitrous oxide (N 2O). Each of the GHG 
components has a global warming potential (GWP) assigned to it by the 
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for use in its GHG   
reporting programs.
The mass of each component gas multiplied by its GWP results in a 
calculated value of carbon dioxide equivalents (CO 2e) for that component.Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
Performance and Goals
Emissions Performance
27%
reduction in flaring emissions        
since 2017.
0.3%
U.S. onshore flaring intensity 
in 2021.32%
reduction in global methane  
emissions from 2019 to 2021.*
18%
reduction in global GHG (Scope 1) 
emissions from 2019 to 2021.*100%
elimination of U.S. onshore routine 
flaring in 2021.
*  APA significantly reduced activity levels 
across its operations in early 2020, in 
response to the COVID-19 pandemic and 
its related impacts. As a result, we view 
2019 as a more relevant base for assessing 
year-over-year water usage and emissions 
intensity improvements.
 6 million
tonnes CO 2e (Scope 1)  80% 
Carbon Dioxide
4.83 million tonnes CO 2eIntroduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
29
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportCOMPENSATION-LINKED, SCIENCE-BASED TARGETS
— OUR GHG ELIMINATION GOAL
As part of our 2022 long-term incentive compensation plan, we set a goal to eliminate  
1 million tonnes of global carbon dioxide equivalent (CO 2e) emissions from our natural 
gas and oil operations by year-end 2024 compared to year-end 2021. We have identified 
a number of projects across our operations that will drive this elimination and we are 
working with a third-party vendor to support our work by verifying project deployment 
and emissions reductions, providing compatible international operational experience, and 
helping to track long-term incentive compensation-related projects.21.522.2
17.9
15.9
13.9Global GHG Emissions Intensity
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021tCO 2e/Mboe
EVALUATING INNOVATIVE TECHNOLOGY
Methane emissions from oil and gas operations are a focal point for global greenhouse 
gas mitigation initiatives. We are working with LongPath Technologies, Inc., a leader in 
providing 24/7, real-time monitoring solutions, to better measure and assess our 
emissions. Their technology places a single laser within several individual facilities, 
sending out eye-safe light over miles-long pathways through the air. Combined with small 
mirrors on monitored sites, this allows for real-time reporting of quantified emissions 
volumes at each facility. 
Building on the program’s success in 2021, we expanded our partnership in 2022 to 
monitor approximately 40 Apache facilities throughout the Permian Basin. LongPath’s 
technology provides our teams with the data needed to fulfill our commitment to reducing 
emissions, while meeting global energy needs in more innovative and sustainable ways. 
Read more in the press release available online .
Right:  Through our partnership with LongPath Technologies, our team receives 
real-time methane emissions reporting at our operations in the Permian Basin.
20210.28%Global Methane Emissions Intensity
2017 20180.42%
20190.40%
20200.33%CH4 emitted/CH 4 produced 0.30%
Methane intensity goal of 0.37% or less 
achieved  in 2019. 
1million
tonnes of CO 2e emissions 
eliminated by year-end 2024. 
 Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
30
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
Water
Water is a key component of our oil and gas operations, and we 
recognize the need for water balance in areas where we operate. 
From overabundance of water during extreme weather 
events that may impact our assets, to water scarcity in arid 
regions, we consider water availability and access to clean 
water throughout our project lifecycles. We use best 
practices in our efforts to safeguard water quality both 
onshore and offshore. These safeguards include proper 
management of produced water, monitoring of chemicals 
used, and safe transport of recycled water and waste for 
disposal, all of which are a core part of our sustainable 
operating strategy.
Water Management
Fresh water is a limited resource in some of the areas where 
we operate. We seek to minimize our use of fresh water by 
finding innovative ways to reuse produced water, source 
alternatives to fresh water, and reduce the overall amount of 
water required for our operations. We seek to use 
nonfreshwater sources for our operations wherever 
possible, with a preference for reusing and recycling 
produced water.
We also follow strict protocols to protect water quality. We 
actively work with regulators like the Railroad Commission 
of Texas and industry groups like the American Petroleum 
Institute and the Energy Water Initiative, to ensure that our 
operations meet or exceed industry standards.
We strive to ensure that our operational activity does not 
limit access to freshwater resources that are relied on by 
end users, such as municipal water systems and agriculture. 
These water management efforts are especially important in 
our onshore operating areas in regions considered water-
scarce, such as the U.S. Permian Basin and Egypt. We 
account for location, pricing and applicable regulations in 
assessing water scarcity. When appropriate, we utilize 
various data sources, such as the U.S. Drought Monitor and 
the World Resources Institute’s Aqueduct tool, to confirm 
our assessment of water-scarce areas within our operations. 
The results of this assessment and the maps prepared using 
these tools can be found on p. 104 of this report.OPERATIONAL WATER USAGE
Our primary operational water use is enhanced oil recovery 
in legacy oil fields in the Permian Basin. We also use water 
for drilling and completing new wells. The chart below shows 
the volumes of water that are either injected to enhance oil 
recovery from existing wells or used in the drilling and 
completion of new wells, including hydraulic fracturing. As 
the chart indicates, over the last five years, more than 95% 
of the water we have used has been recycled, produced or 
nonfresh water. We have achieved this reduction in 
freshwater consumption largely by increasing our reuse of 
produced water and by sourcing nonfresh water for use in 
hydraulic fracturing operations. In some instances, treated 
municipal wastewater has been used as a source for our 
operational water needs, as an alternative to fresh water.
Recycled Produced Water (Mbbls)
Nonfresh Water (Mbbls)    
Fresh Water (Mbbls)     
Recycled and Nonfresh Water (%)
Fresh Water (%)20170100,000200,000300,000400,000500,000600,000700,000800,000
2019 2020 2018 202194% 95% 95%
5.8%99.7%99%Global Operational Water Usage
4.6% 4.8%
1% 0.3%Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
31
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportIn line with Ipieca, a leading reporting framework for the  oil 
and gas industry, we define consumptive use of water as 
limited to fresh water and nonfresh water from surface or 
shallow groundwater, including treated municipal 
wastewater, since the industry’s use of water from these 
sources typically removes these volumes from the normal 
surface or groundwater cycle.²⁴ The water consumption 
calculations in the Key Performance Data chart on   
pp. 98-99 of this report therefore reflect only the fresh 
water and nonfresh water from surface or shallow 
groundwater that are consumed in oil and gas operations. 
Prior to 2020, we included produced water usage in our 
consumptive use calculations. Water consumption intensity 
values for 2020 and prior years were restated accordingly  
in the 2021 report, to reflect this definition.
RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT OF PRODUCED WATER
Produced water is nonpotable water released from deep 
underground formations and brought to the surface during 
oil and gas exploration and production. Most of our 
produced water is reused for secondary recovery operations 
by being reinjected into the field where it was produced. We 
also recycle produced water for use in hydraulic fracturing 
fluids. Reusing and recycling produced water reduces the 
chance that our activities compete with other uses of 
freshwater resources. It also helps reduce operating costs 
associated with water purchases and the need to transport 
and dispose of produced water from our operations.
In some areas of our operations, more water is produced 
than can be reused or recycled. We continue to pursue 
alternatives to deep-injection disposal, such as by evaporating the freshwater component of excess produced 
water to the atmosphere, or by discharging a treated portion 
of the water in accordance with applicable regulations and 
industry best management practices (see the Operational 
Water Use and Water Sources diagram on p. 33 for more 
detail on water use in our operations) .
We also continue to expand our use of recycled produced 
water for hydraulic fracturing operations. Additionally,   
we continue to evaluate alternative storage and reuse 
technologies in all our areas of operation, based on criteria 
including transportation, infrastructure, treatment methods 
and cost.
We have applied a variety of innovative technologies and 
treatment processes to allow us to store larger volumes of 
treated produced water for longer periods, including by 
using smaller impoundments and by applying advanced 
chemistry. This enables us to better match the availability  
of recycled water to our operation schedules and to increase  
the proportion of recycled water used in our operations. In 
the past five years, we have increased our Permian Basin 
produced water storage capacity to nearly 16 million Bbls, 
and have improved our treatment of stored recycled water 
during reduced activity in 2019 and 2020 to ensure this 
water remains ready for reuse.
In our U.S. onshore operations, we take measures to ensure 
that produced water is handled in a manner that reduces  
the risk of impacts to soil, groundwater and surface water 
quality. Once treated, recycled produced water is stored   
in engineered, double-lined impoundments equipped with 
leak detection technology, or in tanks that are routinely 
inspected and monitored. Loss of primary containment in 
impoundments is rare, but should it occur, these recycled 
water storage systems have secondary containment and 
detailed, location-specific spill prevention countermeasures 
and control plans.
We have also expanded our water-related infrastructure   
in our U.S. onshore operations, allowing us to move water 
within most of our operations without trucks. This reduces 
trucking-related emissions, minimizes the potential for  
spills during loading and unloading, and lessens the  
impact of heavy trucks on local roads. We have worked  
with the American Petroleum Institute to develop 
recommended practices for lay-flat hosing that is commonly 
used to transport produced water to and from well locations. 
These specifications include parameters to ensure the 
quality and performance of this piping across our industry. 
Since 2020, water used for hydraulic fracturing in the 
Permian Basin has been transported by either permanent or 
temporary pipeline.
Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
32
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
SAFEGUARDING WATER QUALITY
Before beginning operations in a new area, we test and 
obtain baseline water quality data. We also conduct 
post-drilling water quality monitoring as needed, based on 
the location’s risk profile. Water quality tests include, but are 
not limited to, pH, salinity and total petroleum hydrocarbons.
We follow comprehensive procedures for the handling of 
chemicals on the surface and during subsurface operations 
across groundwater-bearing zones, to help safeguard  
water quality.
Protecting aquifers by maintaining the integrity of our wells 
is another way we protect water quality. We take great care 
when planning and performing operations to minimize the 
chances of a well failure that could impact local water 
resources. For the entire depth to which each well will be drilled, our engineers, geologists and geophysicists design 
our well drilling plans and completion programs after a 
detailed and extensive review, using local geological 
knowledge and observed operational conditions.
In addition, we consider potential impacts to adjacent wells 
or faults and include mitigation plans to prevent adverse 
impacts. Based on well spacing and formation fracture 
direction, well-completion treatment volumes and pumping 
pressures are adjusted, and nearby wells are remotely 
monitored using surveillance technologies.
We design the surface casings of our wells to protect usable 
groundwater intervals and follow industry best practices in 
the construction of the wells. This includes verifying casing 
and cement integrity with pressure tests and physical 
inspections. We monitor and record essential data from 
cement jobs and perform evaluations to ensure adequate 
isolation of producing intervals, including zonal isolation for 
protected water resources. We use industry best practices 
for our cement testing methods, including cement bond 
logs, ultrasonic testing and temperature logging, when 
appropriate, to ensure the cement has bonded properly to 
the protective casing and the formation. We perform 
pressure tests on every surface casing string. We also 
conduct pressure testing and monitoring prior to and during 
all hydraulic fracturing operations.97%
of the water used in our U.S. hydraulic 
fracturing operations in 2021 was 
nonfresh or recycled produced water.
 
Hydraulic Fracturing Water Use, U.S. OperationsINCREASING NONFRESHWATER USE FOR 
HYDRAULIC FRACTURING IN THE U.S.
Parts of our U.S. onshore operations are considered water-scarce 
areas, and in these cases, we have reduced the use of fresh water 
in our U.S. hydraulic fracturing operations by increasing the use of 
recycled produced water and nonfresh water. From 2018 to 2021, 
freshwater use as a percentage of total water used for hydraulic 
fracturing decreased from 32% to 3%. However, it is important to note 
that our overall activity in 2020 and 2021 was down considerably: total 
hydraulic fracturing water usage decreased by 77% in 2020 compared 
to activity in 2019, which reduced our opportunities to reuse produced 
water. Activity increased in 2021, resulting in more than double the 
usage of water for hydraulic fracturing than in 2020. However, our 
overall water use for hydraulic fracturing in 2021 was less than 60%  
of the volume used in 2019.
Right:  The hydraulic fracturing water use reported in the graph to the  
right is a subset of total global operational water use (see p. 30 for more 
information on total water use) .Fresh Water            Nonfresh Water            Recycled Produced Water2017 2019 2020 2018 202153%
32%37%
9% 3%20%
22% 12%
59% 61%27%
46%51%31% 36%Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
33
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
Key
Source water flow 
Produced water flow          
Recycled water flow for certain operations
 Fresh Water  — As used in this report, water sources with  
a total dissolved solids concentration of up to 1,000 
milligrams per liter.¹⁹ Uses of water from these sources can 
include drinking water, potable water and water used for 
agriculture. The definition can vary in accordance with local 
statutes and regulations and is defined within this 
document for reporting purposes.
 Nonfresh Water  — Water sources that do not meet the 
definition of fresh water. These sources could include 
produced water and brackish groundwater.
 Produced Water  — Nonfresh water found in hydrocarbon 
formations that is brought to the surface during the oil and 
gas production process. Recycled Water  — Produced water that has been treated 
for reuse in subsequent operations, including well 
completions or secondary recovery.
 Secondary Recovery  — A process that involves injecting 
water or gas into producing formations to improve oil and 
gas recovery.
 Water Consumption  — Water volumes used in APA’s 
operations that are sourced from water withdrawals.
 Water Withdrawals  — Water volumes drawn from surface 
water, groundwater, seawater, municipal sources and 
producing formations.Fresh Water
5.57 MMbblsDrilling and 
Completions
41.28 MMbblsProducing Wells
945.39 MMbblsOil, Gas 
and Water 
SeparationRecycled 
Produced Water
12.23 MMbblsProduced Water  
Treatment for Reuse
12.23 MMbbls
Nonfresh Water
23.48 MMbblsDisposal
290.5 MMbbls
Secondary 
Recovery
416.69 MMbbls
KEY WATER DEFINITIONSOPERATIONAL WATER USE AND WATER SOURCES
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report 33Drilling, completions and production operations are our primary uses of water, which we source from groundwater 
aquifers, surface water, municipal water and produced water. The volumes noted in the diagram below are for our 
2021 operational water use, in millions of barrels (MMbbls).Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
34
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportSpill Mitigation
We are committed to mitigating spills throughout the lifecycle of our operations.
We begin by planning and designing our operations to 
minimize the risk of spills and to reduce any impact if they 
occur. During construction, we follow well and pipeline 
integrity standards, and we routinely assess the integrity  
of our equipment in accordance with recognized industry 
best practices.
We use primary and secondary containment systems, 
including impermeable membranes under relevant 
equipment, when installing new facilities in onshore  
U.S. operations.
Our spill mitigation strategy extends to how and when   
we use recycled produced water in our operating areas.   
For example, we prioritize transporting produced water in 
permanent pipelines rather than trucks to reduce the 
potential for spills. We also tailor our produced water 
management and spill reduction practices to our operating 
areas. In the Austin Chalk area in Texas, because our 
operations are often close to flood plains of local rivers,   
we proactively mitigate spill risks by using only water of a 
quality similar to that of the local watershed. While this  
limits the volume of recycled produced water used in our 
operations, it also reduces the potential impact to local 
surface water in the unlikely event of a spill (see pp. 30-32  
for more on how we prevent produced water releases) .
We also train employees to identify and mitigate spill 
related-risks as part of their regular job duties, and we  
select contractors who do the same. As outlined in our 
environmental management system and available in our 
Environmental, Health and Safety Master Service 
Agreement Requirements available on our contractor 
website, our contractors are required to have completed 
written training programs addressing waste handling,  
waste disposal and spill response.During drilling and completion activities, personnel actively 
monitor the operations to detect spills, and they stand ready 
to respond as quickly as possible if one should occur. Some 
production operations are also monitored continuously 
through automated on-site systems and remote monitoring 
centers that are staffed 24/7. In the event that a spill does 
occur, field personnel respond promptly and follow a 
planned spill response protocol to determine the spill source 
and location, and then act to minimize the potential for 
adverse impacts. We are also committed to following all 
applicable local and national cleanup and reporting 
requirements.
SPILL RESPONSE PROTOCOL
Our trained personnel actively monitor operations to detect 
spills, and stand ready should they occur.
Spill Detected
Follow a Planned Spill Response  
Protocol to Determine:Prompt Response
Field personnel respond promptly and 
follow a planned spill response protocol.
Take Action Clean up
to minimize the 
potential for 
adverse impacts.We are committed to restoring the 
affected area in accordance with local 
and national cleanup requirements.Spill source LocationIntroduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
35
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportOffshore Spill Preparedness
While prevention is always our ultimate goal, we 
continuously expand our capability to respond to offshore 
spills if one should occur. We are members of multiple 
subsea intervention organizations that provide global access 
to a comprehensive package of emergency response 
services for the industry.
As described in the Health and Safety section (see p. 66) , 
we have memberships with Clean Gulf Associates, National 
Response Corporation, Wild Well Control and Oil Spill 
Response Limited. The latter two organizations provide us 
with global access to several capping stacks and the ability 
to mobilize two of them in the event of an incident. The 
capping stacks are strategically stored in five international 
locations — the U.K., Brazil, Norway, Singapore and South 
Africa — and are ready for immediate use and transportation 
by sea and/or air in the event of an incident.
In Suriname, we maintain our proactive approach toward  
oil spill prevention through preparation, planning and 
training with key stakeholders. We have assisted the 
Surinamese government in the development of a National 
Oil Spill Contingency Plan and provided our industry 
partners with subject-matter experts to train and educate 
government agencies.We evaluate oil spill response equipment providers and 
contract with them for specific spill response equipment 
based on our operations. We also pre-stage equipment in 
multiple locations for rapid response in the event of a spill.
Pre-staging locations include the APA Shore Base in 
Chaguaramas, Trinidad; aboard contracted offshore supply 
vessels and a contracted drill ship; and in the Port of 
Paramaribo, Suriname. Though our operations in the region 
are entirely located within Suriname, we have also 
proactively coordinated with local and state agencies in 
neighboring Guyana, which shares a maritime border with 
Suriname and could potentially be affected by a spill from 
our operations. We invite Guyanese officials to participate in 
our spill response training exercises to establish a cross-
border communication protocol, and we communicate 
regularly with the Guyanese officials about spill 
preparedness.
In addition, APA Suriname has entered a Mutual Aid 
Memorandum of Understanding with local exploration and 
production companies in the Suriname/Guyana areas to 
make the industry’s collective expertise and technology 
available in oil spill preparedness and response.
Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
36
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportGreener Chemicals   
for Hydraulic Fracturing
Hydraulic fracturing fluid is typically composed of water, sand and minimal chemical additives. 
The chemicals are added to facilitate the process of delivering the sand to the formation and 
generating the fractures, as well as to protect the well from damage during operations. We have 
taken many steps to use environmentally suitable chemicals in our operations.
Disclosing Chemical Usage Data
We have been an industry leader in transparency about our 
use of hydraulic fracturing additives.
We report 100% of our U.S. hydraulic fracturing activity to 
the FracFocus.org website. The public disclosure of 
information on FracFocus.org  provides a readily available 
data source that facilitates external analysis of the chemicals 
used in specific wells or areas. We conduct periodic reviews 
of FracFocus information and meet with vendors and 
subject-matter experts to discuss options for identifying 
more sustainable chemical alternatives.
We also encourage service companies to provide 
environmentally responsible chemical additives at 
economically acceptable prices. For example, while we do 
not use BTEX (benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, xylene) as a stand-alone chemical additive to hydraulic fracturing fluids, 
we work with our chemical vendors in a continuous 
improvement process to provide additives that minimize 
even trace amounts of added BTEX that may be present in a 
select few hydrocarbon-based additives.
Chemical Risk Reduction Strategies
We have also implemented an enhanced chemical 
management system to better standardize and control the 
chemical additives used in our operations. We have 
developed our own risk assessment framework through 
which we evaluate all chemicals before they are used in our 
hydraulic fracturing operations. This assessment framework 
focuses on screening and/or reducing the use of chemicals 
that pose potential environmental hazards, for example, 
identifying additives that have risks of bioaccumulation and 
replacing them with biodegradable alternatives.
COMPONENTS OF FRACTURING FLUID
Below are fluids and chemicals that APA uses for hydraulic fracturing in our U.S. onshore wells.
Guar Gum
Derived from guar beans
Other additional chemicals (like biocides)
Sodium
Hydroxide
Water 
 Sand
 Ethanol 
Derived from corn
Methanol
99%
of fracturing fluid.1%
of fracturing fluid is made of chemical agents like these that reduce 
friction, prevent corrosion and increase the lifecycle of the well.Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
37
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportBiodiversity
Protecting species and habitats in the areas where we operate 
is an important priority at APA Corporation.
We conduct biodiversity assessments as part of our 
predevelopment planning processes. These assessments 
include reviewing state and federal maps produced by 
specialists who oversee the protection of habitats of 
endangered or threatened species. This information is used 
in the planning of possible surface disturbances and helps 
us proactively design our development plans to avoid these 
areas and to mitigate impacts to sensitive species habitats. 
We also participate in collaborative efforts to conserve and 
promote biodiversity in our areas of operation. In the 
Permian Basin, for example, we are actively working with the 
National Fish and Wildlife Foundation and the Pecos Water 
Conservation Initiative on conservation projects supporting 
habitat restoration on land, and on species conservation 
projects in the Pecos River.Protecting Sensitive Species 
Across Our Operations
To help protect the lesser prairie-chicken (LEPC), a species 
of prairie grouse endemic to the southern high plains of the 
U.S., we participated in a collaborative conservation effort to 
safeguard its population and habitat. The conservation work 
has focused on protecting, improving and restoring native 
habitat to help LEPC populations recover and thrive. Thanks 
in part to the success of this collaboration, the LEPC has 
flourished in our areas of operation.
Helped by voluntary conservation activities carried out by 
companies in the oil and natural gas industry, including APA, 
the LEPC and also the dunes sagebrush lizard have been 
removed from consideration for listing under the federal 
Endangered Species Act. 
Additionally, in the marine environments where we operate, 
we use careful, location-specific wildlife management 
programs equipped with the latest technology and tools to 
assess, mitigate and minimize the potential impacts of 
seismic operations. In Suriname, where we continue our 
exploratory drilling activities, every drilling ship has on board 
a certified protected species observer (PSO) with the 
dedicated responsibility of looking out for whales, turtles 
and other sensitive marine species. These PSOs can stop 
any operational activity if they see a protected species in the 
area. So far, we have observed no impact to marine wildlife 
in the more than 8,600 square kilometers of exploratory 
marine seismic surveying that has been conducted as part 
of exploration activities in Suriname.
In 2021, we conducted seismic operations offshore the 
Dominican Republic, similar to those in Suriname. In 
addition to our use of PSOs, acoustic monitoring and 
equipment with built-in turtle excluder devices were 
selected for the protection of marine species. While 
dolphins, whales and various avian species were observed 
during the program, there were no observed disturbances  
to the species and no mitigation measures were needed.
Above:  The lesser prairie-chicken, a species that APA actively protects.Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
38
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
Managing Lands With a Conservation Focus
While we are committed to protecting species and habitats 
in all the places where we explore for and produce oil and 
gas, we have a special focus on conserving threatened 
ecosystems in our Gulf Coast landholdings in Louisiana and 
land we own, including the Ucross Ranch in Wyoming.
PROTECTING AND RESTORING GULF COAST WETLANDS
Louisiana swamps and marshes are among the nation’s  
most at-risk wetlands. For several decades, the state has 
lost about 20 square miles of wetlands per year, due to 
natural processes of subsidence, saltwater intrusion and 
shoreline erosion.
These wetlands serve as breeding grounds for thousands of 
species of aquatic life, land animals and birds, and provide 
habitat for more than 5 million migratory waterfowl each 
year. They also act as a storm surge buffer during hurricanes 
and provide flood control by holding excess water during 
heavy rainfall. Furthermore, they filter pollutants and absorb 
nutrients, replenishing aquifers and purifying water. On the Gulf Coast, wetlands also support billions of dollars 
in revenue and thousands of jobs in oil and gas 
development, shipping, fisheries, ecotourism, recreation  
and other industries.
In Louisiana, through its wholly owned subsidiary Apache 
Louisiana Minerals LLC (ALM), APA owns and manages 
approximately 270,000 acres that are predominantly 
wetlands. We place a high priority on protecting the swamps 
and marshes of the Gulf Coast region and the species that 
call these areas home.
Our local employees work year-round to manage and protect 
the land. In the last two years, hurricanes have significantly 
affected these wetlands. In 2020, coastal Louisiana was 
directly impacted by the landfall of five named storms, 
several of which resulted in significant destruction of 
wetlands. In 2021, Hurricane Ida made landfall in southeast 
Louisiana, directly impacting our Houma office, numerous 
facilities and employees, and knocking out electricity and 
communication networks for weeks. Employees’ houses 
were damaged, including two that were no longer safely 
inhabitable. It took weeks to assess the impact to the 
company’s property.
Above:  We own Ucross Ranch in Wyoming, where we focus on conserving the threatened ecosystems native to the area.Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
39
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportDespite the weather-related setbacks, we were still able to 
accomplish many projects to benefit the wetlands and the 
flora and fauna that inhabit them. Our activities included 
replanting native vegetation, building and operating 
water-control structures to restore normal hydrologic 
patterns, combating invasive flora and fauna, rebuilding 
shorelines, creating earthen terraces in open water 
environments, and repairing nesting structures for birds.
  ALM partnered with Ducks Unlimited to install several 
water-control structures on our property in Cameron 
Parish, to maintain optimal water levels for waterfowl 
during the migratory season as well as optimal levels for 
marsh regeneration during the growing season.
  We partnered with the Terrebonne Parish Consolidated 
Government to install wetland terraces in open water 
areas, to provide habitat diversity and storm surge 
protection for the local community.
  We provided access to our property for various types of 
scientific research, including an ongoing study to monitor 
marsh health in real time, as well as a coyote research 
project to determine whether some of these animals may 
be descendants of the rare red wolf. We are also 
participating in a wetland creation project in partnership 
with the Louisiana Coastal Protection and Restoration 
Authority and the National Marine Fisheries Service, to 
create approximately 465 acres of new wetlands.  We are working with local and state levee boards to 
finalize construction of a section of the Morganza-to-the-
Gulf Hurricane Protection System, which crosses a 
portion of Apache property. This levee system provides 
invaluable flood protection to the citizens of South 
Louisiana, yet is a “leaky system” by design, in order to 
maintain and stabilize the wetlands that are located  
inside the levee systems.
  ALM staff worked to straighten up the osprey nesting 
platforms, which were severely damaged by Hurricane 
Ida’s Class 4 winds. This project is an ongoing partnership 
with the Barataria-Terrebonne National Estuary Program. 
Within two weeks of repairing these artificial nest sites, 
ospreys were observed actively building nests on some of 
the platforms.
  We are installing nesting boxes to be used for Black-
bellied Whistling Ducks on our property in Cameron 
Parish. The nesting boxes are provided by our partners  
at Delta Waterfowl and will be installed by surface  
lessees with our assistance.
  ALM successfully applied for a competitive grant from   
the Coastal Protection and Restoration Authority to 
construct additional wetland terraces on our property   
in Cameron Parish.
  We continued our ongoing battle against invasive  
species such as giant salvinia, water hyacinth, nutria  
and feral hogs.
Despite the weather-related setbacks, 
we were still able to accomplish many 
projects to benefit the wetlands and 
the flora and fauna that inhabit them. 
Right:  ALM staff repaired the osprey nesting platforms 
that were damaged by Hurricane Ida, in partnership with 
the Barataria-Terrebonne National Estuary Program.“
”Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
40
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportUCROSS RANCH: A MODEL OF SUSTAINABLE 
RANGELAND MANAGEMENT
The Ucross Ranch, located near the base of the Big Horn 
Mountains in Wyoming, is partially owned by Apache and is 
managed by the Apache Foundation, a nonprofit subsidiary 
of Apache Corporation. Since 2005, the Foundation has 
overseen the 20,000-acre ranch as a model for profitable 
and sustainable land-use management practices, protecting 
increasingly threatened grassland ecosystems. Ucross 
provides a unique opportunity to compare the more 
traditional year-round grazing practices originally used in 
this area, with the ranch’s current short-duration approach, 
in terms of erosion impacts on uplands and stream areas.
Utilizing a short-duration rotation grazing strategy for 
cattle has reduced bare ground on the ranch’s rangelands 
from approximately 50% to less than 2%, and significantly 
improved streambank stability, all while tripling the 
sustainable stocking rate for cattle. In large part due to 
these practices, the ranch also provides excellent habitat 
for mule deer, white-tailed deer, pronghorn, sage grouse, 
sharp-tailed grouse, turkey, gray partridge and many 
species of waterfowl.
We regularly partner with academic researchers as well as 
state and federal natural resource management agencies to 
support research and conservation projects on the ranch. 
For example, since 2012, the Apache Foundation has 
participated in the longest-running rangeland erosion study 
in the nation’s history, which is being conducted by Kansas 
State University.
In 2015, following work done by the Apache Foundation   
to improve the quality of the ranch’s ecosystems as a 
sanctuary for birds, the Ucross Ranch was recognized as an 
Important Bird Area (IBA) by the Audubon Society and the 
American Bird Conservancy. In 2021, to help further 
increase waterfowl populations and boost the number of 
waterfowl that use the ranch for nesting habitat, the Apache 
Foundation installed 20 nesting structures across the 
20,000-acre ranch to help retain waterfowl and provide 
safe, predator-free platforms for geese and ducks to nest on.
In 2021, the Apache Foundation worked with local 
beekeepers and honey producers to introduce additional 
beehives across the ranch to address recent declines in bee 
populations. The addition of beehives will help boost 
honeybee populations and provide access to the 
approximately 900 acres of high-quality alfalfa forage  
that the bees use to pollinate and produce honey.
PARTNERING TO PROTECT THE PECOS 
RIVER WATERSHED ECOSYSTEMS
In 2019, as part of continued development activity in the 
Permian Basin, we joined the Pecos Watershed 
Conservation Initiative (PWCI), a collaborative effort of 
eight corporate partners and biodiversity experts with 
the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation and the U.S. 
Department of Agriculture’s Natural Resources 
Conservation Service. The purpose of the initiative is  
to help protect the Pecos River watershed, which 
supports some of the most biodiverse arid and semiarid 
ecosystems in the world and is home to rare fish and 
aquatic species found nowhere else on Earth. Since its 
inception in the fall of 2017, the PWCI has invested a 
total of $6.49 million in 34 projects that address three 
priority strategies: habitat restoration and management 
of riparian and grassland systems, species intervention 
and species information. Some of the projects in 2021 
included cross-jurisdictional habitat restoration, such as 
reviving 16,500 acres of Chihuahuan desert grasslands, 
installing more than 60 miles of pronghorn-friendly 
fencing and restoring hydrology at four aquatic  
habitat sites. Above:  Cutthroat Trout (Oncorhynchus clarkii) a species that  
we protect in the Pecos River. Photo by NFWF.
Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
41
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportSeismicity and 
Oil and Gas Operations 
To further ensure the protection of groundwater, the environment and local 
communities, APA plays an active role in industry research groups focused 
on studying “induced seismicity.”
We have collaborated with leading universities and have 
funded research to better understand and model the 
fundamentals of induced seismic activity in the areas in 
which we operate. For example, we support and engage 
with the Center for Integrated Seismicity Research at the 
University of Texas’ Bureau of Economic Geology, as well as 
with the TexNet project, a seismic monitoring program.
We carefully review the potential for induced seismicity in 
our operating areas based on an analysis of available 
geologic data, including known fault characteristics, states 
of stress and other parameters. To mitigate risk, our 
subject-matter experts follow the most current research in 
the field, and we actively engage with leading experts to test 
ideas and interpretations.
Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
42
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportWaste Management
Our waste management programs are modeled after industry best practices and are 
specific to the country and operational agreements in place with any joint venture partners.
Overall, the programs are geared toward the reduction of 
waste, protection of water resources, minimizing hazards to 
employees, and facilitating recycling and circular waste 
management lifecycles.
Our primary solid waste streams are drilling residuals, solids 
from produced water and waste from our office buildings.
Disposal of Drilling Waste
Drilling residuals are the mixture of mud, cuttings and 
drilling fluid residues that come out of a well during the 
drilling and completion process. We capture drilling 
residuals on-site and dispose of them based on composition 
and in accordance with applicable regulations in our 
operating areas.While regulatory disposal requirements differ slightly by 
state and country, they are fairly uniform overall and include 
specifications for the classification and segregation of 
hazardous and nonhazardous waste, manifesting, 
transportation and disposal methods.
In our North Sea Forties Field, we use rig-based drill-cutting 
treatment and processing facilities to significantly reduce 
the volume of return materials that are shipped back to 
shore for treatment and disposal. This system reduces 
emission impacts as well as the risk of safety and spill 
incidents associated with transport.
AIMING FOR ZERO WASTE IN THE OFFICE AND THE FIELD
The AIM for ZERO WASTE recycling program was developed to align our day-to-day office and field behavior in the U.S. and U.K. 
with the company’s mission and Core Values. We encourage our employees to reduce the volume of waste sent to landfills.
Employee Action
We reinforce our commitment to waste reduction and recycling 
throughout the year. By leveraging our employees, we identify 
and implement waste reduction opportunities and encourage 
recycling at each of our office locations.
Eco-Friendly Dining
In the U.S., the company makes available and encourages 
employees to utilize reusable beverage containers. We also 
offer reusable food containers in our dining facilities in Houston 
and Midland, Texas, to further reduce the polystyrene that 
ends up in landfills. In our Houston office, we have switched all 
remaining disposal containers to be eco-friendly.Electronic Waste
We are committed to recycling electronic waste 
and host an electronic waste recycling month at the 
office annually, allowing employees to bring in waste 
electronics from home to be recycled.
Scrap Metals
Office and field locations collect and 
recycle scrap metals on a regular basis.Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
43
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
OUR PEOPLE
Our commitment to people begins with our 
employees — our most important resource and 
greatest competitive advantage. By building a 
diverse and inclusive workplace, supporting 
employee development and wellbeing, and providing 
a comprehensive Total Rewards package, we are 
investing to help achieve the full potential of our 
employees and our company. Over the last year, our 
employees have adjusted to returning to the office in 
a hybrid work model and have continued to take 
measures to minimize the spread of COVID-19, all 
while producing high-quality work to help our 
company achieve its goals.
All employees of APA companies are employed by 
our subsidiary Apache Corporation.
Diversity and Inclusion 44
Workforce Demographics 48
Hiring Locally 50
Recruitment, Development and Engagement 51
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report 43Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
44
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportDiversity and Inclusion
Diversity and inclusion (D&I) are vital to our long-term success. A more diverse 
workforce and an inclusive environment where all our people can openly voice 
their thoughts makes everyone stronger.
As the energy landscape continues to evolve, we need 
increased diversity, innovative ideas and nuanced 
perspectives more than ever. We are committed to 
cultivating a work environment where all employees are 
valued and can thrive, with a sense of belonging not only   
as employees, but as people.
D&I Strategy
As part of developing our D&I strategy, we participated in 
external surveys to benchmark our D&I programs and gain 
insight into best practices. With this data, we measured the 
success of our programs in the areas of recruiting, talent 
management, learning and development, employee 
engagement, supply chain and community partnership 
efforts. We are merging the results of these external surveys 
with insights gained from internal listening sessions to 
identify and implement changes and opportunities that will 
help us advance workplace diversity.
We know that data drives progress and accountability. We 
have developed D&I dashboards as a key part of our 
approach to help us assess the diversity of our workforce. 
An internal dashboard utilized by our human resources 
department tracks gender and ethnic diversity across 
management, new hires and promotions, to drive 
accountability and measure progress as we implement 
processes to advance D&I. We also incorporate a D&I goal  
in our annual incentive compensation program to build 
diversity strategically across our organization. Year-end data 
for 2021 can be found on our public D&I dashboard , on   
pp. 48-49 and also in the Key Performance Data chart on  
p. 99. Our 2021 Equal Employment Opportunity 
Consolidated Report, or EEO-1 data, can be found on   
p. 101 in the Appendix.
In addition to our proactive D&I efforts, we strongly enforce 
our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics . The Code 
requires that we conduct business, including employment 
practices, in accordance with all applicable laws, rules, 
regulations and government requirements. APA is an equal 
opportunity employer. All employment decisions are made 
without regard to race, color, religion, sex, familial status, marital status, sexual orientation, genetic information, 
gender identity, national origin, age, veteran status, disability 
or any other status protected by applicable federal, state or 
local law. These standards support our commitment to meet 
or exceed the requirements of applicable laws and 
regulations in the countries where we operate. Any form of 
discrimination by or toward employees, contractors, 
suppliers or customers in our workplace is strictly prohibited 
(see the Community section, p. 77, for information on our 
Supplier Diversity program) .
Attracting Diverse Candidates
Recruiting talent from historically underrepresented groups 
is a key component of our D&I efforts. We ensure that our 
hiring managers meet our internal standards for identifying 
and hiring diverse talent. We provide access to a tailored 
curriculum of courses that provide training and clarity on 
candidate selection, interviewing and hiring practices. While 
our recruiting and hiring efforts slowed dramatically in 
2020, they have begun to recover.
Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
45
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
In 2016, Apache Egypt announced a scholarship program in partnership with the American 
University in Cairo, partially covering tuition payments for two distinguished undergraduate 
students majoring in petroleum engineering.
Nadine El Tanahy quickly distinguished herself in her studies, winning a scholarship from 
Apache in 2016. An internship within Apache’s Egyptian operations followed. The 
Engineering Summer Internship Program involved rotations through the offices of Apache 
Egypt, and of the Qarun Petroleum Company (QPC) and Khalda Petroleum Company (KPC) 
joint ventures. 
In early 2019, she received the STEM Star  
of the Year Award at the Egypt Petroleum  
Show (EGYPS), held under the patronage of 
His Excellency President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi  
of Egypt. (Shown here with Egypt's Minister 
of Petroleum and Mineral Resources, H.E. 
Tarek El Molla.) 
The award recognizes a high-potential female 
university student in the Middle East or North 
Africa who is pursuing a STEM degree and 
has a keen interest in the oil and gas industry.
After graduating with honors, El Tanahy joined Apache Egypt as a full-time employee and 
was seconded to KPC, one of two Apache joint ventures with the Egyptian General 
Petroleum Company (EGPC). Nadine has already completed six months of rotational 
training experience in various technical departments, including drilling engineering, 
reservoir engineering and production engineering. She joins a growing group of women 
contributing to Apache’s significant efforts in Egypt, where the company is the country’s 
largest U.S. investor and top oil producer.CASE STUDY
Nadine El Tanahy: From All-Star 
Student to Apache Engineer 
Science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) are essential skills for our workforce. Apache 
already employs a diverse group of leaders in STEM positions throughout our global operations.
But we are seeking to increase the diversity of ethnicities, genders and perspectives in STEM roles as 
an important element of our D&I efforts. Expanding the pipeline of diverse candidates in these fields 
is key for advancing diversity and inclusion at our company and throughout our industry, and we are 
working to encourage women and other traditionally underrepresented groups to pursue STEM careers.
Apache's work with the POSSE Foundation, an organization that supports college success and 
leadership development initiatives for students from underserved groups, is one example of how we  
are contributing to this fundamental need (see more about POSSE Foundation on p. 69) .
45 APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
Cairo
Egypt
EXPANDING DIVERSITY IN EDUCATION AND CAREERS
Science Technology
Engineering MathSTEM skillsIntroduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
46
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportIn 2022, we have continued to make progress in our  
efforts to attract diverse candidates by partnering with 
student resource groups like the National Association of 
Black Accountants and Bauer Women’s Society at the C.T. 
Bauer College of Business at the University of Houston.   
We are also expanding our efforts to reach candidates from 
historically black colleges and universities (HBCUs), 
including expanding our recruiting efforts at Texas 
Southern University.
Our recruiting approach and performance are regularly 
reviewed to ensure our process is fair and reflective of a 
diverse and inclusive workforce. Through our partnership 
with Meyer Consulting Group, an independent firm that 
specializes in workforce diversity, our HR team reviews all 
recruiting and applicant data to ensure alignment with our 
overall Affirmative Action Plan and pay equity among our 
new hires.
Ensuring Pay Equity
During each annual compensation program planning cycle, 
we conduct a wage gap analysis to identify differences in 
pay. Generally, differences are related to seniority, 
experience, performance or other legitimate business 
reasons. When pay differences are not clearly tied to such 
factors, we undertake a deeper review and correct wage 
gaps to ensure they do not correlate with gender, ethnic or 
racial differences.
To ensure equitable pay for substantially similar work, we 
have a process to make pay systems and decisions more 
transparent and objective, in addition to having pay bands 
for specific jobs. These processes include:
  Objective metrics to measure performance, which are 
directly linked to compensation.
  Compensation guidelines, based on defined pay ranges, 
performance and positions, to ensure consistency in the 
company’s compensation.
  Training for all compensation decision-makers on the 
importance of collecting objective metrics, utilizing 
compensation systems, and focusing on consistent 
compensation for jobs rather than compensation 
percentage increases.D&I Training
In 2021, we continued mandatory companywide D&I 
training for all our leaders with direct reports, and assigned 
it as recommended training for all other employees. The 
training focused on unconscious bias, allyship, mitigating 
micro-aggressions, leveraging micro-affirmations,  
inclusive leadership, and the benefits of diversity,  
inclusion and belonging.
To help make our commitment to D&I more visible 
companywide, we have utilized a range of diversity-related 
information campaigns, including employee spotlights, 
heritage month celebrations and global holidays. The D&I 
site on our intranet also provides information on how to join 
or initiate Employee Resource Groups (described on p. 47) . 
Diversity & Inclusion Council
Our workforce is a global community that spans many 
regions around the world and encompasses the unique 
characteristics of the people who live in these areas. In 
2019, we established the Apache Global Community to 
support our overall D&I efforts. This diverse group is 
comprised of members that represent the company’s 
gender, ethnic, geographical and functional diversity, 
including employees from different management levels, 
corporate positions and fields. Renamed in 2020 as the 
Diversity & Inclusion Council, this team champions our D&I 
culture by providing employee perspectives, ideas and 
feedback on our D&I initiatives, companywide policies and 
HR processes.
Employee Resource Groups
We support Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) focused 
on advancing inclusion, belonging and understanding for 
employees across our organization. All ERGs have an 
executive sponsor who provides guidance and advice to 
the group. Networking, professional development and 
camaraderie are just some of the many benefits of our three 
current ERGs: the Apache Women’s Network (AWN), Black 
Professionals Network (ABPN) and Pride Network (APN).
ERGs are open to all employees and help build connections, 
support our community outreach programs and foster 
career development. In the coming years, we will continue 
to support employees as they form additional ERGs. For 
example, a relaunch of TEAM Apache, our community 
volunteer ERG, occurred in 2022. A new leadership team, 
as well as an executive sponsor, to support this group has 
recently been selected.Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
47
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS
Black Professionals Network
The Apache Black Professionals Network (ABPN) is committed to promoting a corporate 
environment where Black employees thrive, both professionally and personally, with a sense 
of purpose, support and community involvement. To achieve this, ABPN facilitates continuing 
education, professional and personal growth, mentorship, networking and community impact 
opportunities for Black professionals and allies.
In 2021, ABPN focused on cultural awareness, career growth, community engagement and 
advocacy. The group hosted personal and professional development events such as Work/Life 
Balance during the COVID pandemic, Diversity in the Workplace and Charting Your Career Path, 
which was led by an external panel of career development experts. ABPN also hosted virtual social 
networking events and book club meetings.
ABPN is deeply committed to supporting community youth with resources and opportunities. In 
2021, ABPN provided scholarships to support talented, underprivileged students at two HBCUs — 
Texas Southern University and Prairie View A&M University. ABPN also donated material and built 
a butterfly garden at Rusk Middle School and donated to Operation Turkey, which provides free 
Thanksgiving dinners to families in need.
Women’s Network
The Apache Women’s Network (AWN) focuses on providing its members with learning programs, 
networking and community engagement opportunities to support our female workforce. In 2021, 
AWN, in partnership with Government Affairs, hosted the Women’s Public Leadership Network 
(WPLN). The WPLN is an organization dedicated to educating, organizing and inspiring women to 
become civically engaged, seek public office and effect change in their communities. The event 
provided information on offices, boards and commissions, and provided resources for assistance 
in getting involved in political leadership.
AWN also held several virtual events, including a global session on mental and physical health, a 
conversation with the vice president of EHS, and networking events. To further engage members, 
AWN launched SharePoint and Teams sites and rolled out a new logo, which represented Apache 
women in corporate and operational functions.
Pride Network
The Apache Pride Network (APN) focuses on creating a safe space for LGBTQ+ employees and 
allies, where members can support and learn from each other, foster equality and provide a sense 
of belonging. The ERG was launched in June 2021 to coincide with Pride Month. In a few short 
months, APN developed a charter, gained an executive sponsor and increased membership in 
both the U.K. and U.S. chapters. It also hosted a launch event. In the upcoming year, APN plans 
to provide resources to support LGBTQ+ employees and allies, host networking events and plan 
community service activities.
TEAM Apache
TEAM Apache, which stands for Together Everyone Achieves More, is relaunching in 2022. 
This employee resource group is the volunteer arm of Apache’s Community Partnerships and 
Employee Engagement departments. TEAM Apache’s mission is to provide meaningful volunteer 
opportunities for Apache employees that instill a sense of pride, ownership and accomplishment 
for their efforts in the community. A new leadership team has been selected to develop a team 
charter, recruit volunteers and coordinate volunteer activities.Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report 47
48
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report29%  fema le 71% maleU.S.
12% female 88% maleU.K.
17% fema le 83% maleEgypt
0% female 100% maleSuriname
50%  female 50% maleFranceWorkforce Demographics*
Total Employees =  2,253  Total Employees by Country
230  
Egypt2 
Suriname
2 
France1,381  
U.S.638
U.K.
*  Our workforce demographics are reported by employees’ work location 
as of Dec. 31, 2021. They are based on employee self-identification, and 
subject to changed based on employee assignment. All APA employees are 
employed by our subsidiary Apache Corporation. This data is comparable 
to Equal Employment Opportunity, or EEO-1, reported data. Our 2021 
Equal Employment Opportunity Consolidated Report can be found on  
p. 101 in the Appendix.Global Gender Mix U.S. Ethnicity Mix 
Global
23%  Female 
77%  MaleU.S.
66%  White
19%  Hispanic
7%  Asian
6%  Black
1%  Other
34%
of U.S employees self-identify 
as ethnic minority.Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
49
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportWorkforce Demographics  (Continued)
U.S. leadership 
breakdown
80%  White
8%  Hispanic
6%  Asian
4%  Black
2%  OtherLeadership Diversity  (leadership defined as supervisor level or equivalent and above)
20%
of U.S. leadership self-identifies 
as an ethnic minority.
18%
of global leadership self-identifies 
as female.
Global Age Breakdown
8%  Age: 29 and under
62%  Age: 30-50
30%  Age: 51 and overGlobalGlobal Field/Office Demographics
Field vs. Office
42%  Field personnel
58%  Office personnel
37%  fema le 63% maleGlobal gender mix of ofﬁce personnel
4% female 96% maleGlobal gender mix of ﬁeld personnel
35% racial/ethnic minoritiesEthnicity mix of U.S. ofﬁce personnel
33%  racial/ethnic minoritiesEthnicity mix of U.S. ﬁeld personnelIntroduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
50
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportHiring Locally
We place a high priority on investing in the areas where we operate, which includes hiring and 
developing local talent. Local hiring allows us to make meaningful economic contributions to 
these communities, especially in areas where professional jobs may otherwise be scarce.
In our operations outside the U.S., we strive to recruit most 
of our workforce from the host country. In locations with 
mature oil and natural gas basins, such as the North Sea,  
we typically find a workforce with deep expertise in the 
industry, making this task relatively easy. However, in other 
locations, such as Egypt and Suriname, professionals with 
advanced technical skills are not always immediately 
available among the local workforce, and additional 
investment is required. In Suriname, where our operations 
are relatively new, we are focused on building local 
employment capacity to support future oil production. As 
operational needs and demand for local hiring increase,   
we will lean heavily on local resources, such as our deputy 
country manager, a Suriname native, to help us identify and 
recruit for open positions. We ultimately want to fill jobs with 
local members of the Surinamese population.
In Egypt, advancing the local workforce has been a focus  
of our operations for many years. We first began operating  
in Egypt more than 20 years ago, through a joint venture 
with the Egypt General Petroleum Corporation. Our 
agreement included requirements for the hiring of nationals. 
At that time, local candidates for petroleum engineering and 
geological roles were limited. Initially, we hired oil and gas 
experts from abroad, but we helped to build local expertise 
by collaborating with Egyptian universities to develop 
technical coursework that prepared students to work in   
the industry.
Today, we are continuing to make progress on our efforts to 
hire Egyptian nationals who have industry experience. 
Historically, Egyptian petroleum engineers and geologists 
have sought work opportunities across the Middle East and 
North Africa to broaden their technical knowledge base. To 
capitalize on this, we recently established partnerships with 
firms that are helping to recruit Egyptian nationals working 
abroad in engineering and geological jobs who would like to 
return to their home country.Hydrocarbon exploration and production is the single largest 
industry in the country, representing approximately 15% of 
its total gross domestic product (GDP). As the industry’s 
need for technical skills continues to grow, the pool of 
experienced Egyptian oil and gas technical professionals has 
grown alongside it, allowing us to expand the number of 
local Egyptians in our workforce.
See the Community section (pp. 68-70, 74-75, 80) for more 
on how we are investing in local communities in Suriname  
and Egypt.
As operational needs and demand 
for local hiring increase, we will 
lean heavily on local resources.”“Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
51
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportRecruitment, Development 
and Engagement
We are committed to finding and retaining the best candidate for every task at hand. 
Effectively building and supporting our team is central to delivering top performance 
and continuous improvement.
Employee Recruitment
We focus our recruiting efforts primarily on local colleges 
and universities, and have additionally developed strategic 
partnerships focused on recruiting diverse candidates 
(see pp. 44-46) .
Throughout 2021, we continued to build on the progress 
made through our updated recruiting platform and 
integrated it into our existing HR systems for a more 
effective recruitment and onboarding process. We are also 
using a new applicant tracking software, search engine 
optimization and XML feeds to help our job postings reach 
more diverse groups. As a result, we have been able to 
locate a broader pool of candidates interested in applying 
for our open positions.
In October 2021, the Apache HR team announced a 
transformation of the recruitment function aimed at better 
aligning our business and hiring teams with candidates 
seeking opportunities with Apache. During this transition, 
we identified a talent acquisition lead and hired a fully 
dedicated senior recruiter. In 2022, the team will continue to 
advance our mission of finding diverse, talented candidates.We believe that referrals from our current employees are 
one of our best recruiting tools. By enabling existing 
employees to participate in the candidate identification 
process, we can secure candidates who more readily exhibit 
our Core Values. For example, six roles were filled by 
employee referral candidates to our external job portal by 
current team members in 2021.
In Egypt, the local HR team supported mock interview 
efforts at the American University in Cairo (AUC) to assist 
students in petroleum with the interview process. We have 
had great success in the past partnering with local Egyptian 
universities such as AUC and Mansoura University, and look 
forward to continuing those partnerships in the future. As an 
ever-present guiding principle, we remain committed to 
hiring in the locations where we live and work.
Total Rewards Compensation and Benefits
Our Total Rewards approach to compensation and benefits 
is designed to attract, retain and reward top talent. As part 
of our compensation philosophy, we offer and maintain a 
robust total compensation package that includes a 
competitive base salary, industry-leading benefits and 
performance-driven incentives. We believe that focusing on 
both short-term and long-term incentives provides fair and 
competitive compensation while aligning employee and 
shareholder interests. Our incentive compensation 
programs also reward company and individual performance 
by integrating with our operations; financial; environmental, 
social and governance; and workforce safety initiatives.
In addition to salary and equity compensation, we provide 
employee benefits that cultivate a family-friendly work 
environment and focus on our employees’ overall wellness. 
Our robust benefits platform ranks among the best in our 
industry peer group and includes comprehensive health 
care and retirement benefits, as well as locally relevant 
wellbeing benefits.
Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
52
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportA few examples of recent enhancements to our benefit 
offerings for employees include:
  Our U.S. family leave policies allow paid time off for all 
new parents, including adoptive and surrogate parents, 
and leave for employees providing elder care.
  Mental health benefits are available to all U.S.-based 
employees and eligible family members, including 16  
free sessions with a mental health therapist or coach  
each year. These benefits also include:
 A library of wellbeing and self-care resources.
  A learning platform that offers on-demand and 
interactive courses on mental health topics.
  Structured group and community sessions to 
facilitate conversations on a variety of topics  
related to mental health; current events; and 
diversity, equity, inclusion and belonging.
  An integrated alcohol and mental health   
recovery program.
  A global wellness platform encourages and promotes 
physical, financial, social and emotional wellbeing.
Learning and Development
Our approach to learning and development focuses on 
helping our employees meet their professional goals and 
aligning individual performance with company objectives.  
In 2021, we formally introduced an enhanced performance 
management system with transparent ratings linked to 
bonus outcome and merit review. Employees and managers 
were provided toolkits, guidance and training to support all 
stages associated with overall performance management. 
We regularly reassess and realign learning and development 
resources to improve ongoing development opportunities 
across technical, compliance, business and personal 
development areas.
We continuously evaluate our training providers to offer the 
best available programs to our employees. In 2021, we 
added to our development opportunities Franklin Covey, a 
leading training provider, in our vendor portfolio specifically 
dedicated to offering leadership training and personal 
development to our employees.Leadership Development Program
In 2021, we launched our Leadership Development 
Program, focusing on vice presidents down to senior 
managers. Over 100 leaders have completed the first  
steps of this process, which includes 360-evaluations, 
one-on-one coaching, and workshops focused on core 
leadership competencies. In these workshops, leaders 
explored their leadership behavior and how to utilize their 
strengths with delegation, managing change in their teams, 
creating an engaging culture, and focusing on giving and 
receiving feedback. In 2022, we will work on progressing  
to the next level of leaders and continuing growth with our 
senior leaders.
Succession Planning
Identifying and preparing future leaders is a principal 
element of employee development and succession  
planning. Our HR team works with company leadership   
to identify internal successors for all vice president and 
higher-level positions. In 2021, we strengthened our 
succession planning by focusing on our leadership 
competencies as part of the identification process. We 
utilized these competencies along with development plans 
to assist leaders in honing their skill sets to continue 
leadership growth.Learning by the Numbers
827  
Unique courses.
51,193    
Course completions.
Leadership Development 
Program by the Numbers
100  
Participants.350+  
Coaching sessions.29,375  
Hours of training.Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
53
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
Employee Engagement
Engaging employees in our corporate mission and values is 
critical to enhancing safety and environmental performance, 
boosting morale, improving job satisfaction and advancing 
our success as a company.
We foster employee engagement in several ways. These 
include providing growth opportunities, leadership 
development, community outreach opportunities and 
creating a fair, inclusive work environment. The foundation 
of our employee engagement strategy is building a sense  
of common purpose around mission, which our leadership 
supports through frequent, transparent and honest 
communication. For example, we hold quarterly town hall 
meetings hosted by the CEO and president that address  
the company’s progress on business goals and answer 
questions from employees around the globe. We also  
host regular meetings with our vice president of Investor 
Relations that provide employees an opportunity to hear  
and ask questions regarding financial markets, APA’s stock 
performance and the market performance of our industry 
peers. We also invite employees to participate in live 
presentations broadcast to global offices that feature 
external speakers discussing topics relevant to the  
energy industry.
Understanding employees’ perspectives is central to our 
outreach efforts. In 2022, we plan to launch a refreshed 
employee engagement survey that will measure employee 
engagement and gauge our progress on building an inclusive 
workplace. As in the past, the survey results will be used to 
identify focus areas to continuously improve our work 
environment.
We also support our employees in their efforts to give back 
to the communities where we live and work, by sponsoring 
volunteer service opportunities. We look for meaningful 
volunteer opportunities that instill a sense of pride, 
ownership and accomplishment for employees in their 
respective communities.MENTORSHIP PROGRAM
In 2020, we began piloting a companywide 
Mentorship Program. Formally launched in 
April 2021, this program provides mentors 
an opportunity to guide their mentees in 
developing goals and core leadership skills, 
and accessing networking opportunities. 
More than 15% of the employee population 
participated in the program in 2021. A survey 
was conducted at the end of the mentoring 
session to assess the effectiveness of the 
program. Both mentors and mentees provided 
positive feedback, and the program will be 
continued in 2022.EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT WITH    
LOCAL STAKEHOLDERS
Our Ambassador Program offers a communications skills 
course and provides access to resources on key energy 
issues for our employees. The program’s benefits are twofold 
— employee development opportunities and education on 
industry best practices. Our employees are trained to actively 
listen and remain open and responsive to community members’ 
concerns, helping to build lasting relationships.
136  
Mentors
204  
MenteesEMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
Growth 
opportunitiesLeadership 
developmentCreating a fair, inclusive work 
environmentCommunity 
outreachIntroduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
54
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportAs the world gradually returned to in-person activity, and employees adjusted to a hybrid work 
model, we took advantage of an opportunity to answer an important question about the future 
of work. In this new era, what would be the most effective workplace strategy to support the 
productivity and work/life balance of our employees?
To better understand our workforce and its needs, we launched the Future of Work program,  
to identify a long-term working model and to understand the technology and real estate 
investments required to support our employees’ wellbeing, engagement  and productivity.
As part of this program, we partnered with a workplace consulting firm to analyze current 
employee work patterns. We then launched three pilot programs to test possible working 
models, and presented workplace strategy recommendations to the executive leadership team.
A key element of this program was collecting and integrating employee feedback via 
benchmarks, day-in-the-life analysis, pulse surveys and participant interviews   
and observations.
In 2022, we will identify and begin implementing a workplace strategy that enhances employee 
collaboration and development, optimizes productivity, enriches employees’ connection to our 
culture and supports wellbeing.CASE STUDY
Reimagining the Employee Experience 
54 APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
Above:  We position employees with technology to collaborate in-person and remotely, to ensure an effective 
hybrid work strategy.
To better understand our workforce and its 
needs, we launched the Future of Work program.“”“
Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
55
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
HEALTH 
AND SAFETY
We are committed to maintaining the health   
and safety of our employees, contractors and  
the communities where we operate.
We strive to achieve this objective through the 
application of our Core Values, standards and 
operating practices throughout our global 
workforce, including contractors. We additionally 
expect all partners across our value chain to  
support these efforts.
2021 Key Safety Metrics and Achievements 56
Our Safety Philosophy 58
Contractor Management 63
Crisis and Emergency Risk Management 65
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report 55Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
56
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report2021 Key Safety Metrics 
and Achievements
We made significant improvements in 2021 in all four categories 
of our key performance indicators. 
Specifically, we achieved incident rates more than 38% below targets in each of our Total Recordable Incident Rate 
(TRIR), Days Away, Restricted or Transferred (DART) Rate, Severe Injury and Fatality (SIF) rate and Vehicle Incident 
Rate (VIR) metrics. Globally, we achieved an approximately 45% reduction in recordable incidents year over year. 
We significantly reduced severe injuries, and driving-related incidents were at their lowest levels in 10 years. The 
graph below demonstrates a distinct trend in safety improvement over the past decade:
Since 2019, we have separately tracked a SIF metric to 
increase corporate visibility and awareness of incidents that 
result in fatal or life-altering injury or illness. Life-altering 
injuries or illnesses are defined as those that result in the 
permanent or significant loss of a body part or organ 
function, or that otherwise permanently change or disable 
individuals in their normal life activity.
The graph to the right shows the historical five-year SIF 
rates for our workforce. In 2021, we achieved a SIF rate of 
0.016, a 50% reduction compared to 2020. In addition to 
the overall reduction in SIF incidents, the Apache global 
workforce, including contractors, did not incur a single 
fatality in 2021.
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021Total Recordable Incident Rate
Total Injury Counts
Total Recordable Incident Rate Days Away, Restricted and Transferred Rate Total Injury Counts00.2
050100150200250300350400450500
0.40.60.80.11.21.4
Workforce Severe Injury and Fatality Rate
SIF rate is calculated by multiplying the total number of SIF events by 200,000 
hours, then dividing by the total hours worked. SIF events considered in this rate 
are those that result in a fatal or life-altering injury or illness.2017 2018 2019 2020 20210.068
0.056 0.055
0.040
0.01676%
Reduction in recordable injury
counts compared to 10-year avg.Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
57
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportIncident Reporting and Management
In 2021, our Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) 
department made a number of enhancements to our 
cross-functional approach to incident management, based 
in part on improvements identified in 2020, including:
  More constructive feedback on incident investigations.
  Deeper understanding of root causes.
  More effective preventive and corrective actions.
 More effective sharing of lessons learned.
  Revitalizing EHS safety committee meetings.
  Refocusing the weekly EHS performance dashboard.
  Conducting monthly “all-employee” EHS leadership  
town halls.
  Launching a global hand and finger injury prevention 
campaign.
 Conducting bi-weekly review meetings of our AIM for 
ZERO behavior-based safety program.We monitor leading and lagging metrics of our performance 
to measure the effectiveness of our proactive and preventive 
health and safety programs. Our data management portal 
helps standardize the way we track leading and lagging 
indicators, respond to incidents, facilitate the Management 
of Change process and monitor stakeholder communications. 
This system helps us better identify and communicate root 
causes and incorporate lessons learned from incidents, so 
that we can mitigate and — where possible — eliminate the 
conditions that caused them, across our operations.
We provide regular updates on our health and safety metrics 
weekly to managers at every level within the company, and 
also at quarterly employee town halls, meetings of the 
Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) Management 
Committee and at each Board meeting. Using leading 
indicators to stay abreast of our current performance allows 
us to make more effective course corrections throughout the 
year should our performance fall out of sync with our 
program goals.
Expectations for managers’ engagement in health and safety 
can be found here .
2017 2019 2018 2020 2021 1.24 1.29
 0.79  0.83 
 0.53 Vehicle Incident Rate
The VIR is calculated by multiplying the total 
number of recordable vehicle incidents by  
1 million miles, then dividing by the total  
miles driven.**Days Away, Restricted  
or Transferred Rate
The DART rate is calculated by multiplying the total 
number of DART injuries by 200,000 hours, then 
dividing by the total hours worked.* DART cases 
considered in this rate are those work-related injuries 
and illnesses that lead to an employee missing work, 
requiring restrictions in work duties or requiring a 
transfer from regular work duties. The TRIR is calculated by multiplying the total 
number of recordable injuries by 200,000 hours, 
then dividing by the total hours worked.* The TRIR 
measures the rate of work-related injuries and 
illnesses that result in medical treatment beyond 
first aid. Medical treatment includes, among other 
things, the use of prescription medication to 
relieve inflammation or ease discomfort. 2017 2017 2019 2019 2018 2018 2020 2020 2021 2021
    Employees            Contractors          Workforce     Employees            Contractors          WorkforceTotal Recordable Incident Rate
* Apache employees and contractors worked more than 50 million hours in 2021. 
** Includes miles driven by Apache employees.
 0.13
 0.14 0.33 0.17
 0.40 0.28
 0.28
 0.13 0.23
 0.23
 0.13 0.17  0.07
 0.21 0.26 0.27 0.21 0.48 0.58 0.27
 0.10 0.41 0.54 0.09 0.65 0.28 0.56 0.67 0.24
 0.80Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
58
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportOur Safety Philosophy
We foster a safety culture that empowers our workforce to stop any task if conditions or 
behavior are thought to be potentially unsafe. This means every team member on location 
has stop-work authority, allowing them to halt activity, reevaluate working conditions, and 
ensure procedures are in place for everyone’s safety before proceeding.
We strive to be incident-free across our global operations 
every day, with the support of visible and engaged 
leadership, by setting clear expectations and making safety 
personal for all employees and contractors. In 2021, as 
activity levels rebounded from the COVID-19 pandemic and 
travel restrictions eased, our senior leadership, including our 
COO, vice president of EHS and other senior staff, made 
personal visits to our global operations to reinforce our 
safety messaging.
We believe that empowering the voice of our workforce is 
foundational for performance improvement. Toward this 
end, our behavior-based safety program, AIM for ZERO, 
provides direct access for workers to submit ideas, 
suggestions or observations for improvement, and to 
identify potential hazards for the prevention of safety incidents. In 2021, over 10,000 AIM for ZERO submissions 
were logged across our global operations. We act on these 
submissions by evaluating potential safety improvements 
and implementing them where feasible and appropriate.
Additionally, we ask our contractors to share their safety 
observations with us, and in 2021, more than 130,000 
submissions were logged by several core contract 
companies throughout our global operations. We view this 
overall increase in observations as a positive for our 
operations, as it shows that workers are focused on hazard 
identification. This enables us to better monitor key trends 
and identify areas of concern, allowing us to focus on 
potential improvements to address safety hazards and 
prevent injuries and other incidents.
Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
59
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportHazard Identification and Mitigation
We follow a hierarchy of controls to minimize and mitigate 
exposures to occupational hazards. Based on this approach, 
we focus first on eliminating hazards — the most effective 
way to avoid incidents — and then move through hazard 
mitigation strategies (see the hierarchy we follow, which is 
based on recommendations by the National Institute for 
Occupational Safety and Health [NIOSH], in the graphic 
above). We identify, assess and manage hazards during 
facility design, construction, modification and operation. 
Hazard assessment findings and recommendations are 
reviewed by our safety staff, and the results are 
communicated to relevant operational personnel.
Our workforce strives to identify, assess and eliminate or 
mitigate risks in our operations and work activities by 
effective planning, control of work, and incident 
management. This is demonstrated through actionable 
observations, task-based risk assessments, semiannual 
operational risk reviews, operationally led root-cause 
analyses, and knowledge sharing of incident findings. We 
use field-focused efforts centered on leading key indicators 
to help identify opportunities for continuous improvement. 
Examples include control of work process audits, digital 
safety inspections, trend analysis and timely feedback to the workforce. Incident alerts are delivered to staff and 
contractors as appropriate to alert them to changes in 
operating conditions or in areas where a control may have 
failed; these alerts are also tracked and maintained on an 
internal “Learning from Incidents” webpage.
Additionally, controls and management systems are 
regularly reviewed, iterated and improved upon to drive 
continuous improvements in performance. Physically remove  the hazard.
Replace  the hazard.
Isolate  people from the hazard.
Change  the way people work.
Protect  the worker with Personal Protective Equipment.Elimination
PPEAdministrative
ControlsEngineering
controlsMost 
effective
Least
effectiveSubstitutionHIERARCHY OF CONTROLS
Mindset of the workforce —
culture of safety and 
environmental responsibility.
Expectations of 
the workforce.
Verify and validate.Work rules
Audits and inspectionsWhat we do matters.
EHS cultural 
behaviorAIM
for
ZEROIntroduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
60
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportSafety Audits and Assessments
Our teams conduct audits and inspections in all our 
operating areas. In the North Sea, Advanced Safety Audits 
(ASAs) are completed routinely on our offshore facilities. As 
with the AIM for ZERO program, these ASAs focus on 
observations made during the performance of a specific 
task. Often, actions will be observed and notations made 
that identify areas of concern or potential improvements to 
both safety and performance. Last year, over 2,500 ASAs 
were completed on our offshore platforms in the North Sea.
In our operations in the U.S. and Egypt, we have 
implemented tools that allow for mobile on-site inspections 
by supervisors. These inspections leverage mobile 
technology within our internal safety database to complete 
pre-job inspections and rig-up assessments in real time. 
This program was implemented in early 2021, and last year, 
over 600 specific worksite inspections were completed 
within U.S. onshore operations. Within our Egypt operations, 
over 1,300 safety inspections were completed using this 
newly developed inspection process.To further empower our employees, we listen to and track 
their feedback with an annual safety culture survey, which 
helps guide our EHS strategy. The purpose of the survey is 
to solicit feedback from employees on key safety and 
environmental aspects of company operations. Survey 
questions are focused to reflect the company’s commitment 
to environmental stewardship, the overall health and safety 
of our workforce, and the prioritization of APA’s ESG 
initiatives.
Our 2021 safety culture survey yielded a nearly 70% 
engagement rate from our global workforce. We saw notable 
changes in some of the areas we focused on, such as 
increased use of a safety moment at the start of all 
meetings, and improved communication through the 
distribution of Incident Alerts. We also collected open-
ended responses, which allowed employees to provide 
additional responses in their own words. This feedback 
helped us to identify key themes and develop three major 
focus areas for our 2022 safety engagement program: 
Worker Competency, Control of Work Procedures and 
Standards, and Contractor Management.
Apache Area Inspections
North Sea Inspections 2,572
Egypt Inspections 1,354
U.S. Onshore Inspections 627
APA Total 4,553
MOST NOTABLE IMPROVEMENTS
Safety Culture
Apache has provided well-defined procedures 
that address proper job steps and hazards.
Safety Moments
Office meetings always contain a safety 
moment or topic.20%
44%more respondents agreed with this 
statement than in 2020.
of respondents agreed with this 
statement in 2021, up from 26% in 2020.Above:  Advanced Safety Audits are completed routinely on offshore  
Beryl Alpha platform.Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
61
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportDriving Safety
In 2021, our employees drove nearly 19 million miles  
while working for the company and achieved the best 
Vehicle Incident Rate (VIR) in the company’s history. The 
team’s hyper-focus on driving safety, leveraging real-time 
monitoring data and expanding training across our 
operations, resulted in a 78% reduction in VIR compared 
with our company’s five-year average.
We use in-vehicle monitoring systems in the U.S. and Egypt 
to help ensure the safe driving habits of our workforce. 
These real-time monitoring systems are overseen by the 
Apache Incident Management Center and locally based 
information centers. Over the last several years, we have 
seen a steady decrease in recordable vehicle incidents across our global operations. In Egypt, there were two 
recordable vehicle incidents in 2021, compared to eight   
the previous year. Above is a graph that shows the 
improvements in vehicle incident counts and VIR in the  
past five years.
Health and Safety Training and Education
Training and continuing education are foundational to our 
operations. Our online training platform, which is 
incorporated into our in-house training  system, gives 
employees easy access to safety-related information. We 
offer specific training courses to keep field employees and 
managers informed about evolving issues and best practices 
for our industry. These courses encourage a mindset of 
personal responsibility while emphasizing our focus on the 
hierarchy of controls.
2021 Safety Training Highlights
~26,000  
EHS training modules.
17 ,000+    
hours logged.
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021Vehicle Incident Rate
Vehicle Incident CountsYearly Comparison of VIR and Incident Counts
VIR Incident Counts00.2
010203040506070
0.40.60.811.21.41.61.8278%
Reduction in vehicle 
incident counts compared 
to five-year avg.Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
62
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
Even in the face of a rebounding ongoing pandemic and an uptick in operational activity, in 2021, the company achieved 
performance breakthroughs that set new safety records.
During 2021, EHS and Operations teams advanced priorities identified from the 2020 Safety Culture Survey, as well as the 
fundamentals of cross-functional collaboration, process formalization and AIM for ZERO program improvements.
These global performance improvements were underpinned by a relentless focus based on APA’s Core Values. Key examples of 
how our employees put our values into action to keep each other safe include:
Putting People First:  We put people’s safety first, even 
when it means stopping work to do so. For example, when 
winter storm Uri froze much of the U.S. in February 2021, 
traveling was dangerous and power was disrupted, requiring 
a careful balance of safety and production. The U.S. onshore 
team monitored and managed production ahead of the cold 
temperatures and kept field teams off the roads. In a similar 
scenario in Egypt, work was also halted during scheduled 
maintenance at the Tarek gas plant while crews safely waited 
out a severe sandstorm that obscured visibility and cut power 
and cellphone service.
Action to Mitigate Operational Risks:  We revitalized our 
approach to systematic risk assessment by establishing key 
risk indicators, implementing smarter controls and 
formalizing the documentation of findings to align intention 
with action.
Enhanced Transparency and Communication:  In 2021, 
corporate leadership including the COO with EHS established 
a discussion forum between the joint venture operating 
entity, Apache Egypt and Khalda Petroleum Company (KPC), 
which facilitated two-way dialogue between frontline 
personnel and leadership. Operations teams witnessed 
tangible benefits and greatly improved transparency in 
communication as a result of the forum.Learning From Incidents:  In 2021, we instituted a 
collaboration session that assembled cross-functional 
international teams to comprehensively assess incidents and 
share findings. Maintaining on-site safety for team members 
and partners requires a collaborative approach to auditing 
and thoroughly discussing contractor policies and 
procedures. Establishing key takeaways from incidents and 
setting clear expectations with contractor leaders can 
prevent future incidents from occurring, when implemented 
in addition to regularly scheduled in-depth training.
Reminding Ourselves of the Basics and Tightening 
Control of Work:  We optimized and utilized structured 
processes to manage our asset integrity lifecycle and verify 
control of work. As operational activity increased, we knew it 
was important to renew our focus on basic protocol and to 
have leadership and employees consistently reinforce work 
rules and safety standards. The elements of “Stop. Think. Act. 
Review.” underpin everything we do.CASE STUDY
Safety Doesn’t Happen by Accident 
Total Recordable Incident 
Rate (TRIR) and severe 
injuries were at their lowest  
in over 10 years, down by 
44% and 59%, respectively.
62 APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
63
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportContractor Management
Like others in our industry, we rely on contractors to support nearly every aspect of our 
operations, from exploration and production to well closure and remediation activities. 
Contractors typically account for about two-thirds of   
our total workforce hours each year. Coordination and 
oversight of our contractor relationships are thus critical   
to our success.
Leveraging the power of a third-party contractor 
management data service, we set minimum criteria for all 
contractors on topics including core training, insurance, and 
health and safety management. Meeting these criteria is 
incorporated as contractual provisions that are required for 
approval of all master services agreements.
We engage consistently and actively with our contractors to 
promote alignment with APA’s Core Values, including EHS 
standards and operational excellence. Our contractor-facing 
website outlines our EHS expectations for our contractors, 
with applicable documents  available for download. Our 
comprehensive contractor management process addresses 
the full lifecycle of supplier engagement, from selection and 
evaluation to monitoring and post-contract review.
In 2021, as pandemic restrictions began to ease, quarterly 
in-person contractor safety meetings were reintroduced. 
These engagements are held in each production area and 
are open to all contract companies and crews working in 
that area. In 2022, we are also planning larger, town-hall 
style meetings for contractors on drilling, completions and 
workover activities.
All contractors providing U.S.-based services are required to 
have a Code of Conduct or Code of Ethics and a method to 
demonstrate that their employees are aware of and adhere 
to that code. In addition to the internal review process 
described above, we also assess contractors using leading 
third-party supply chain management tools that provide 
evaluations on a range of criteria, including performance and 
management of safety, anti-corruption, financial health and 
other business issues.Frequent contractor safety audits, both at job sites and in 
contractor field offices, are critical components of our 
compliance assurance process. Our contractor audits 
assess a range of controls, including EHS management 
systems, data analytics, training compliance and 
competency.
In 2021, the field operations EHS team completed 357 
distinct on-site rig inspections. These consist of a wide 
range of checks to ensure Occupational Health and Safety 
(OSHA) compliance among our workover vendors. In 2022, 
we will continue to improve our audit and inspection 
processes by formalizing checklists, frequency and 
methodology.
CONTRACTOR MANAGEMENT PROCESS
Evaluation of EHS Management Systems
 Utilizing third-party data   
management services.
 Reviewing top operational risks and  
mitigating controls.
Assessment of Technical Capabilities   
and Service Quality
 Verification and validation of   
operational readiness.
 Training compliance and competency.
Compliance Assurance
 EHS audits.
 Performance reviews.
Continuous Improvement
 Sharing and adopting industry best practices.
 Reviewing lessons learned.
 Evaluation of emerging technologies.Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
64
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
TRANSITIONING THROUGH THE GLOBAL PANDEMIC
Throughout 2021, we continued to adapt to the global pandemic and prepare for changes in activity 
as the world transitioned from the impact the pandemic had on work life. The health and safety of our 
workforce remained a priority, as activity increased with improved market conditions, which required 
us to maintain operational continuity. The dedication and diligence of our employees and contractors in 
adhering to health, safety and hygiene protocols were critical to maintaining a safe workplace. Enduring 
the global pandemic and the constant changes associated with it provided opportunities to evaluate 
business practices and operations. By regularly reassessing and evolving our best practices throughout 
the pandemic, we were able to foster and create innovative solutions and enhancements throughout our 
business, increasing the company’s resilience for future events.
The COVID-19 pandemic has led to numerous changes in the way we conduct our business, including 
how we support employee health and safety. It has introduced a new set of challenges for keeping our 
workforce safe while maintaining operational continuity. As always, even when faced with seemingly 
insurmountable challenges, our employees rose to the task and succeeded in developing and implementing 
new ways to keep one another healthy and safe. The company provided masks, hand sanitizer and 
implemented new work protocols to ensure the adherence to proper social distancing recommendations. 
The company also provided access to COVID vaccines and boosters for employees and their families. This 
global crisis has illustrated the resounding ability of our team to adapt as circumstances change and make 
the necessary adjustments to ensure that worker safety and health remain a top priority.
64 APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportIntroduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
65
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
Crisis and Emergency Risk Management 
Emergency Preparedness Resilience
In recent years, we have enhanced our operations risk 
management program, which is helping us reduce 
operational risks across the company. A cross-functional 
team with representation from many areas of the business 
worked together to implement process improvements in   
the program.
Incident Management
We train employees on incident response and managing 
unplanned events, including how to implement mitigation 
measures. In 2021, we conducted 13 Incident Management 
Team exercises across our operations to improve our ability 
to respond to unexpected incidents. Coupled with a training 
matrix and response plans, these efforts are a crucial step in 
crisis and emergency management preparedness for the 
business. Corrective action items were identified after each 
exercise with recommendations, and an implementation 
plan developed and tracked for each. These training 
activities are critical to our preparedness efforts and 
illustrate the company’s ability to test and analyze 
established plans.
RESILIENCE IN ACTION
Incidents rarely happen when most convenient, as 
demonstrated over the Fourth of July weekend in 2021, when 
Apache’s Incident Management Team (IMT) was called to 
action. IMT members were activated to help mitigate the impact 
of a third-party well-control event nearby. The IMT stepped in 
to help the operator with the well, successfully coordinating a 
response to regain control of the well, mitigate environmental 
impacts, protect vulnerable wildlife in the area and manage 
channels of communication with affected stakeholders.
This response presented unique challenges, since, for example, 
certain response resources were not readily available over the 
holiday weekend. The IMT worked quickly to find new suppliers 
within a matter of hours and coordinated beginning-to-end 
resource management at the response site.
The incident response was further complicated by torrential 
flooding and strained network communications in the area. 
However, the IMT’s leadership and commitment to our 
response priorities of Life Safety, Incident Stabilization and 
Environmental Protection resulted in a safe response with no 
injuries, successful well-control restoration operations, and 
robust efforts to assess environmental impact and prevent 
undue damage.OPPORTUNITY AND RISK 
MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORKCOORDINATION DURING AN 
INCIDENT RESPONSE
1. Planning
2. Organizing
3. Training7. Taking corrective 
action
4. Equipping6. Evaluating
5. Exercising
Delivering continuous 
improvements and 
visible results 
MonitoringAuditManagement 
ReviewIdentify
Assess
Top 5 ReviewIntroduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
66
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
Industry Collaborations and Partnerships
We are active in several industry collaborations to improve our response capabilities, including Oil Spill 
Response Limited, which provides well control and spill response support globally to our offshore areas 
of operation. We maintain additional memberships with Clean Gulf Associates and National Response 
Corporation for spill response in the Gulf of Mexico. We also have a contract with Wild Well Control, 
which provides support for a well-control incident in any other area of operation.
U.K. TIER 3 OIL SPILL EXERCISE
In September 2021, we conducted our triennial Tier 3 Oil Spill Exercise in the North Sea, a daylong event that included 
personnel from across the company’s crisis management organization.
The exercise is a regulatory requirement established by the U.K. National Contingency Plan for companies operating on 
the U.K. Continental Shelf. It tests the interface between our crisis and emergency management organization and the 
numerous regulators, government agencies and emergency response services that form the U.K.’s emergency response to 
a major oil spill.
Participants in the exercise include the Secretary of State’s Representative for Maritime Salvage and Intervention 
(SOSREP), who represents the overriding interests of the state and has the authority to intervene in an incident on behalf of 
the government; the Maritime and Coastguard Agency; the U.K. environmental regulator, the Offshore Petroleum Regulator 
for Environment and Decommissioning (OPRED); and various environmental agencies including Marine Scotland, the 
Scottish Environment Protection Agency (SEPA) and the Joint Nature Conservation Committee (JNCC).
The exercise was based on a hypothetical scenario involving a blowout during drilling operations at the Garten 3 
development well at the Beryl field in the North Sea. Our response teams were required to develop source control options 
and present these to the SOSREP. This process demonstrated our ability to implement Oil Pollution Emergency Plans in the 
event of a worst-case environmental scenario.
The exercise achieved its objective, and our response was commended by both the SOSREP and the OPRED evaluator. 
Several areas of improvement were identified, which have since been incorporated into procedural updates, ensuring the 
continual improvement of our crisis management strategy.U.K. NORTH SEA — VESSELS OF OPPORTUNITY AND SHETLANDS BASE
In 2021, we made significant efforts to increase our preparedness for environmental incidents. We identified two additional 
response services that will be engaged in 2022 through our response partner Oil Spill Response Limited (OSRL).
One challenge when operating in remote, offshore locations is the ability to swiftly transport appropriate vessels, equipment 
and personnel to the desired location in order to begin implementation of Oil Pollution Emergency Plans. This is particularly 
the case for the Beryl field, which lies some 190 miles from Aberdeen on the Scottish mainland.
The response services to be added are based in Shetland, a group of islands much closer to the field. The first is a Vessels of 
Opportunity (VOO) service, which will ensure that vessels are available to respond to an offshore pollution incident within 24 
hours of a confirmed request. The service will be provided by OSRL in conjunction with the Scottish Fishermen’s Federation 
(SFF), and is to consist of fishing vessel crews that are provided with the equipment and training to respond quickly and 
effectively in the event of a spill. The second will be OSRL’s own additional spill response resources, located in Shetland. 
Having access to these services will help ensure our capability to respond to any spill incident that may occur in the field and 
underlines our commitment to being an environmentally responsible operator.Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
67
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
COMMUNITY
We seek to be a good neighbor in the communities 
where we operate by listening to and responding to 
community interests and concerns, developing local 
economies through our investments and employment 
opportunities, and investing in community 
partnerships and philanthropic causes.
Our Approach to Social Investing and 
Community Engagement68
Local Economic Impact 76
Understanding and Addressing          
Stakeholder Concerns78
Human Rights 81
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report 67Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
68
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportOur Approach to Social Investing 
and Community Engagement
From Midland to Cairo and Paramaribo to 
Aberdeen, our communities each have 
unique social, environmental and energy 
access challenges, requiring a carefully 
curated approach.
Supporting progress in our communities is an important 
component of our company’s overall environmental, social 
and governance (ESG) strategy. 
To help focus and maximize our efforts, we have identified 
commonly held community needs across our operating 
areas into three pillars: Sustainable Communities , 
Environmental Stewardship  and Access to Energy . 
Based on these pillars, we are committed to:
  Addressing acute social needs within the local 
communities where we operate.
  Ensuring we remain focused on our long-standing  
legacy and commitment to environmental stewardship 
and conservation.
  Supporting underserved communities that lack access  
to reliable, affordable energy.
Sustainable Communities 
(SDG 11 — Sustainable Cities and Communities)
Supporting the sustainable prosperity of the communities  
in which we operate is a key component of our social  
impact strategy. Throughout 2021, we focused our efforts 
on vulnerable populations by advancing educational 
opportunities, improving health and wellbeing, and 
responding to humanitarian and natural disasters.
ADVANCING EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES 
Advancing educational opportunities, especially for women 
and other vulnerable groups, is an important focus of our 
community investments. These contributions are part of our 
overall effort to support organizations that recognize that 
when women and girls have the opportunity to cultivate 
strong voices, communities are stronger and healthier. This 
work is particularly important in developing communities of 
Egypt, Suriname and the Dominican Republic.Above:  Apache founded Springboard in 2004 to provide educational 
opportunities to underserved populations in Egypt.
ABOUT THE UNITED NATIONS    
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
The U.N. SDGs are a blueprint 
for achieving a better and more 
sustainable future for all by 
addressing the global challenges we 
face, including poverty, inequality, 
climate change, environmental 
degradation, peace and justice. 
The United Nations SDG areas of 
focus for the next decade (2020-
2030) are “tackling growing poverty, 
empowering women and girls, 
and addressing the global climate 
emergency.”²⁰
Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
69
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportAccess to education is a crucial component of any sustainable society. Our work to   
support the Posse Foundation is one way we are contributing to this fundamental need.  
The Posse Foundation , established in 1989, supports college success and leadership 
development initiatives for students from underserved groups. The foundation provides 
equitable educational and growth opportunities in Houston and the Permian Basin, most  
often serving minority and rural communities.
In 2021, APA entered a four-year partnership with the foundation, supporting 60 university 
scholars with coaching, mentoring and networking resources. This partnership furthers the 
foundation’s mission to expand the pool from which top colleges and universities can recruit 
outstanding, diverse young leaders; help these institutions build more inclusive campus 
environments; and ensure that Posse Scholars persist in their academic studies.
In addition, and in alignment with APA’s goal to promote diversity and inclusion within the 
company, the company, in partnership with the Apache Black Professionals Network (ABPN), 
granted $10,000 in STEM scholarships to two Historically Black Colleges and Universities 
(HBCUs), Texas Southern University and Prairie View A&M University.
Additionally, Apache helped to support Independent Petroleum Association of America  
(IPAA)’s Energy Workforce Education virtual platform, which provides STEM resources and 
education to over 1,500 middle school and high school students across Texas.CASE STUDY
Supporting Educational Opportunities 
for Underserved Groups 
Above:  The Posse Foundation supports college students with coaching, mentoring and networking resources. 
Photo by Posse Foundation
69 APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
70
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportHEALTH AND WELLBEING
We also focus on contributing to the health and  
wellbeing of our local communities. In the U.S., we are 
supporting groundbreaking medical research, while in 
developing communities, we are providing critically  
needed medical supplies.
Our hometown of Houston is not just the energy capital   
of the world, it is also a world leader in medical care and 
advancements. In 2021, we continued a multiyear,   
$1 million commitment to the University of Texas MD 
Anderson Cancer Center. Our contributions support medical 
research in the development and integration of modern 
technologies and innovative procedures for the treatment  
of neurological cancers through the Image Guided Cancer 
Therapy Program. We also initiated a partnership with 
Medical Bridges, an organization that matches the critical 
medical supply needs of developing countries around   
the world with medical supply surpluses at the Texas  
Medical Center.
Improving the quality of life for vulnerable women and 
children, especially those who experience domestic abuse, 
is a key component of ensuring sustainable and healthy 
communities. During the pandemic, when domestic abuse 
cases dramatically increased, APA began supporting 
organizations that were responding to that increase in 
Houston, the Permian Basin and in Suriname. In 2021, we 
continued our focus on this important issue by supporting 
more than 25 women and children escaping domestic 
violence in Suriname. As part of this effort, we helped build 
and provide funding for a shelter in Paramaribo that 
provides ongoing emergency shelter, advocacy and  
support services.RESPONDING TO HUMANITARIAN AND NATURAL DISASTERS 
In communities where we operate, APA identifies specific, 
disruptive events, such as extreme weather or an increased 
need for access to basic resources, and steps up to offer 
support. In 2021, we responded after several storms 
battered the U.S. Gulf Coast, leaving Texans and Louisianans 
without access to food, drinking water or medical supplies. 
In the aftermath of Winter Storm Uri, we provided 5,000 
meals to vulnerable senior citizens, military veterans, 
homeless individuals and first responders. We also provided 
similar aid to those affected by Hurricane Ida in Terrebonne 
Parish in Louisiana, donating 7,500 meals, bottled water  
and medical kits. In Suriname, we partnered with 
TotalEnergies by jointly pledging 2 million Surinamese 
dollars to flood disaster relief and increased distribution   
of COVID-19 vaccines.
In 2021, building on our work to support young women 
pursuing an education in Egypt (see pp. 74-75) , we 
contributed to Vital Voices Global Partnership, a nonprofit 
focused on advancing global women’s leadership that 
supports displaced Afghan women refugees.
2021 Community Support 
Highlights
2.0  million
Surinamese dollars pledged jointly   
with TotalEnergies to flood disaster   
relief and increased distribution of 
COVID-19 vaccines.
12,500    
meals provided to people affected by 
natural disasters Winter Storm Uri   
and Hurricane Ida.
Above:  Through our partnership with the STICRIS Women’s Shelter in 
Paramaribo, Suriname, we are able to help provide shelter and support 
for women and children who are in crisis.Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
71
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportEnvironmental Stewardship
(SDG 15 — Life on Land)
Since our founding, the company has had a legacy of 
supporting land conservation in the U.S. Our environmental 
stewardship initiatives focus on large-scale wildlife and 
habitat conservation through partnerships with 
organizations such as the National Fish and Wildlife 
Foundation and the Texas Parks and Wildlife Foundation. We 
also focus on enhancing public green spaces, reforestation 
and environmental education, with such initiatives as our 
award-winning Apache Corporation Tree Grant Program.
In 2021, we donated 55,000 trees to 66 community 
partners through the Apache Corporation Tree   
Grant Program.
Examples of tree planting partners and projects include:
  Exploration Green, to create and maintain a 200-acre 
park, natural habitat and wetlands conservation project in 
Greater Houston.
  The City of Houston and Harris County, for the 
reforestation of Houston’s public parks, nature trails  
and roadways.
  The National Butterfly Center in South Texas, for the 
reforestation of native trees on 350 acres of protected 
lands for native pollinators and wildlife species.
  The Texas Parks and Wildlife Department, for the 
establishment of wildlife habitats and reforestation at 
multiple Texas state parks and nature centers.
  Tree New Mexico, to benefit its NeighborWoods program 
serving the Albuquerque, New Mexico, community.
  Bayou Vermilion Preservation Association, to increase the 
number and diversity of native wetland trees in 
Louisiana’s municipal parks.
  The Trust for Public Land, in support of a multiyear 
reforestation and wildlife habitat preservation project at 
Bayou Teche National Wildlife Refuge in Louisiana. 
Since 2015, we have partnered with the Friends of the 
Wildlife Corridor to plant more than 90,000 seedlings 
across 98 acres of the South Texas National Wildlife Refuge 
Complex, a series of national wildlife refuges on the 
southern tip of Texas. This initiative is part of the U.S. Fish 
and Wildlife Service’s habitat restoration program, which will 
preserve the ecological function of the Tamaulipan 
thornscrub forests and provide habitat for endangered 
wildlife in the region.
Through the Tree Grant program, we have distributed more 
than 4.8 million trees to a wide variety of nonprofit 
organizations and government agencies in the U.S., 
including cities, counties, schools, state and local parks, 
universities, youth associations, wildlife refuges and 
community groups. In addition to using trees to beautify 
neighborhoods and preserve natural habitats, nonprofit and 
governmental groups often request trees to support a range 
of conservation efforts, including reforestation in areas 
affected by natural disasters.
4.8  million
trees donated through the Apache Tree 
Grant Program since its founding in 2005.
 Above:  The Apache Tree Grant program donated 55,000 trees to  
66 community partners in 2021.Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
72
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportCONSERVATION INITIATIVES 
We are active in conservation efforts, including on the 
Louisiana Gulf Coast, the Pecos Watershed in West  
Texas and New Mexico, the high plains of Wyoming and, 
most recently, in partnership with Respect Big Bend in  
West Texas.
Through the Pecos Watershed Conservation Initiative, we 
work closely with eight other oil and gas companies, the 
National Fish and Wildlife Foundation and the U.S. 
Department of Agriculture’s Natural Resources 
Conservation Service, to help protect the Pecos River 
Watershed, which is home to many rare and endemic 
species. In 2019, we joined as an energy adviser to the 
Respect Big Bend Stakeholder Advisory Group (SAG), 
composed of landowners, nonprofits and community 
members. Sponsored by the Cynthia and George Mitchell 
Foundation, Respect Big Bend is focused on providing 
solutions that balance energy development and 
environmental conservation, while addressing community 
needs and concerns about future development. We 
provided the group with guidance and insight into lessons 
learned about effective stakeholder and community 
engagement in and around the company’s Alpine High asset 
(learn more about these and other conservation programs 
on pp. 37-40.)One example of our community and conservation efforts in 
Alpine High is our work with the Texas Parks and Wildlife 
Foundation to restore and improve Balmorhea State Park in 
West Texas. We led a matching gift campaign in 2018 that 
raised $2 million to repair the nearly 100-year-old, spring-
fed swimming pool at the park. Many of our contractors 
participated with local landowners in the successful effort to 
raise the funds needed to do the delicate work of repairing 
the pool while protecting its unique aquatic habitat. We 
donated an additional $1 million to create an endowment to 
ensure that the park would have a sustainable source of 
funding for beautification and education initiatives for years 
to come.
Access to Energy 
(SDG 7 — Affordable and Clean Energy)
Access to reliable energy is critical to societal progress. 
Nearly 759 million people, or 10% of the worldwide 
population, lack access to electricity, and about 2.6 billion, 
or one-third, live without clean cooking facilities.
Apache partners with Switch Energy Alliance (SEA), which 
provides collaborative global energy education and solutions 
for over 15 million students and environmental organizations.
As we work to enhance Access to Energy as a pillar of our 
strategic giving plan, our Community Partnerships team is 
exploring new opportunities to address energy poverty with 
partners who recognize the significant role that companies 
like APA play in advancing global energy progress.
OUR ONGOING SUPPORT OF   
SWITCH ENERGY ALLIANCE
As part of our commitment to increasing energy access, 
we supported the production of Switch On, the sequel 
to Switch, a film that explores energy needs across the 
developing world: Switch Energy Alliance ( switchon.org ).
Above:  The Big Bend region in West Texas is one of the areas where we 
help conserve land.
Photo by Switch Energy Alliance
Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
73
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
COMMUNITY PARTNERSHIPS — OUR STRATEGIC AREAS OF FOCUS
Sustainable Communities *
Around the world, each of our communities 
has unique and specific needs. 
Opportunities for partnership include 
improving quality of life through access to 
education and essential medical supplies; 
supporting vulnerable populations, 
including women and children in need; 
responding to natural disasters; and 
supporting first responders.Environmental Stewardship
Taking care of the environment goes 
hand in hand with responsible energy 
development and includes initiatives 
that support habitat, species and water 
conservation.Access to Energy
Access to reliable energy is critical 
to societal progress. Our community 
partnership efforts in this area seek to 
expand access to energy for communities 
in developing nations, and to address 
reliability and affordability of energy in 
developed countries.
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report 73* Includes charitable giving in the areas of Education; Health & Wellbeing; First Responders & U.S. Military Support; 
Women, Youth & Family Services; Community Resources; and Arts.
2021 Investment Data
79.7%
Community Services15.8%
Environmental Stewardship4.5%
Access to Energy
Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
74
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report74 APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
In many rural villages in Egypt, lack of local access to education and safety concerns for young girls have resulted in 
limited educational opportunities. We are in our 18th year of supporting Springboard Girls Schools, an Apache-
founded community project that helps educate girls in remote areas of Egypt. We remain one of the primary funding 
sources of the program. Springboard works with governmental and nongovernmental organizations in support of the 
Egyptian government’s Girls’ Education Initiative.
We have also supported the construction and ongoing maintenance of nine coeducational schools, which serve about 
350 Bedouin students in areas near our drilling and production operations in the Western Desert of Egypt.
Through Springboard, Apache supported the construction of 201 mostly one-room girls’ schools in Egypt, which have 
enabled approximately 15,000 girls, like Amira Sidhom Habib, to learn how to read and write.
Amira joined a secondary school in El Minya where she 
excelled, graduating with a 93% overall score, and was later 
accepted at Cairo University, where she studied science, with 
a focus in biotechnology. Amira seized these incredible 
opportunities to work with instructors, collaborate with her 
peers and develop her personal and professional knowledge 
and skills. Today, she is in her final semester as a full-time 
student at the University of Cairo, working every day to 
achieve her dreams.
Despite the success of the Springboard program, there are 
still barriers to increasing access to quality education for girls 
in Egypt. The three main barriers for community schools, as 
identified by the assessment of the American University in 
Cairo (AUC) of public and community schools in Egypt, are aging school infrastructure, lack of qualified teachers and a 
high dropout rate. APA has focused most recently on 
addressing the first two, and in doing so, seeks to encourage 
graduation and reduce dropout rates as well.CASE STUDY
Creating Educational Opportunities 
for Girls in Egypt
Educational opportunities  
at Springboard provide an 
outlook for young girls who 
might have missed a chance 
to learn elsewhere.”— Mojida Fawzy , Teacher at Springboard Girls School“Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
75
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report75 APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportCASE STUDY (Continued)
We are working to improve school infrastructure through 
ongoing maintenance of the schools, ensuring they are 
structurally safe and have the electrical capabilities to 
support current and future e-learning initiatives.
We are addressing the second issue through a teacher 
training program in partnership with the AUC. In 2018, we 
established a program with the AUC to provide training and 
development courses for 402 teachers and 201 supervisors 
who work in Springboard schools. At the end of 2021, these 
603 Springboard educators completed the final phase of their 
two-year development and training program at the university.
Two inspirational women, Mojida Fawzy and Sahar Ismael 
Abdel Nasser, have helped to transform the lives of more 
than 80 students through their love of teaching, strong 
leadership and dedication to the community. 
“The biggest benefit Springboard brings to our community 
 is these schools help create an aspiration of what it means  
to be a successful member of society,” Mojida explains. 
“Educational opportunities at Springboard provide an  
outlook for young girls who might have missed a chance  
to learn elsewhere.”
Both women are motivated by the idea of giving back, as well 
as by their devotion to lifelong learning. In their time at 
Springboard, Mojida and Sahar have been able to share their 
love of learning with their students, instilling in them a sense 
of pride and accomplishment. “When our students learn to read and write and feel  
confident in expanding their skills, they become exceptional, 
well-rounded individuals: academically, socially and morally,” 
Sahar says.
The 90-hour Teacher Development Program aims to enrich 
teachers’ interpersonal, social and psychological skills, 
empowering them to help create active and well-rounded 
citizens. Sessions focus on professionalism, learning 
theories, assessment methods, classroom management and 
active citizenship. The teachers are also introduced to 
concepts such as resilience, autonomy, innovation, lifelong 
learning, multigrade teaching and the various stages of 
human development. The 90-hour Supervisor Development 
Program strives to improve the supervisors’ professional 
roles in effecting positive change within their schools. In total, 
we have contributed $340,000 to fund all three phases of 
these two training programs.
Springboard Girls Schools   
by the Numbers
201  
schools built.
600+    
teachers and supervisors trained.
5,000  
students enrolled annually.
~15,000    
girls in APA-supported schools in Egypt
who have learned to read and write
since 2004.Above:  Apache provides training for teachers and supervisors at  
Springboard Girls Schools.Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
76
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportLocal Economic Impact
Our operations benefit local communities in the form of direct 
and indirect hiring and spending.
The practice of hiring locally is one way in which we make 
meaningful economic contributions to the communities 
where we operate. We offer competitive wages and benefits 
and actively recruit qualified local candidates who 
demonstrate the skills and experience that meet the 
requirements of particular jobs (learn more about local 
hiring on p. 50) .
We also focus on developing business relationships with 
local suppliers and contractors. Although many products 
and services for the oil and gas industry are commonly 
provided by large, multinational suppliers, we engage 
directly with local businesses to help expand our local 
supply base. Welding services, workover and P&A rigs, 
water hauling, roustabout crews, construction crews, civil 
project installation crews, pump repair and production 
equipment fabrication are some of the categories in which 
we utilize local suppliers. Sourcing and contracting locally 
not only makes economic sense — it also engenders 
goodwill within the communities in which we live and work.
Since 2017, our operating areas, on average, spend more 
than 35% of their budgets with suppliers and contractors 
that are geographically local.
2021 Total Local Vendor 
Spend by Country
$344  million  
Egypt$11  million  
Suriname$211  million  
U.S.$294  million
U.K.Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
77
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
Supplier Diversity
We believe the success of our company and society is 
enhanced by enabling diverse suppliers to share in overall 
economic growth. We understand that supplier diversity   
will not only enhance our position in the marketplace, but 
positively impact the communities in which we operate. 
When diverse suppliers flourish and prosper, their 
communities also benefit greatly from that success.
We have made supplier diversity an integral part of our 
sourcing, contracting and procurement processes. Our 
Global Supply Chain team makes sourcing and contracting 
decisions based on best total value, and we recognize the 
opportunities that diverse suppliers bring to a competitive 
supply base.
In line with our ESG objective to diversify our supplier  
base, we recently established a supplier diversity program  
in the U.S. As part of this work, in early 2022, we launched  
a supplier diversity webpage , where suppliers can find 
numerous resources regarding our Supplier Code of
Conduct , necessary certifications and what we ultimately 
look for in suppliers.The webpage provides an avenue for diverse suppliers to 
engage directly with us and to broaden our sourcing options 
and increase the company’s exposure to innovative ideas 
and solutions. Suppliers can register and provide their 
information via the online portal  or email  us directly. We 
participate in supplier diversity special interest groups to 
publicize our program and encourage diverse suppliers to 
register online if they are interested in doing business with 
APA Corporation and its subsidiaries.
44%  
of total global vendor spend is with 
geographically local suppliers and 
contractors.
3.8%    
of U.S vendor spend is with suppliers 
categorized as diverse and small 
businesses, 2.2% and 1.6% respectively.Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
78
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportUnderstanding and Addressing 
Stakeholder Concerns
Being a good neighbor means taking the time to listen. Through its subsidiaries, APA operates 
in numerous communities around the world, each with its own characteristics and needs.
We follow the same high standards of community 
engagement and responsiveness everywhere we operate, 
while tailoring our approach to the unique circumstances of 
each community. We focus on developing positive 
relationships within our communities by treating those who 
live and work in them with dignity and respect. We listen to 
their concerns and do all that we reasonably can to address 
them through a broad and inclusive process.
We consider stakeholder input in our decision-making 
processes, both in the pre-development planning phases 
and after we begin operations. We maintain open 
communication with local officials and community leaders to 
promote friendly and proactive dialogue, and we encourage 
community members to reach out if they have any issues to 
discuss. We routinely meet with local emergency 
responders to help ensure a coordinated response in the 
rare event of an incident and to make sure they know to call 
our 24-hour emergency number immediately if they suspect 
there is a problem at one of our locations. For employees 
that regularly interact with the community, we have an 
Ambassador Training Program (see p. 53) that helps them 
develop strong communication and respectful engagement 
skills. Regular formal and informal feedback provide a 
foundation for mutually beneficial outcomes for our 
communities, our employees and our company.
Minimizing Impacts on the Community
While most of the high-activity elements of our operations 
are short-lived, we recognize they can create some 
concentrated, though temporary, inconveniences. Our 
guiding principle is to minimize these impacts as much as 
possible from the outset. On issues ranging from the size of 
our well pads to our trucking routes, we thoughtfully work 
out logistics to minimize issues such as traffic congestion, 
road safety, dust, noise and odors.
During the pad siting process, we take multiple factors into 
consideration, including accessibility and road conditions. 
We often drive the roads in the region beforehand, to get a 
ground-level view of the situation and preemptively address 
potential concerns, such as vulnerable roads, residential 
density and other factors.Once we commit to a pad location, we develop 
approved routes for heavy trucking, to reduce 
the potential for widespread disturbance and 
traffic congestion. We then require all heavy 
trucks servicing the location to use the approved 
routes, which minimizes the impact on other 
drivers and on the community.
We also work to reduce our impact on local 
roads and communities by encouraging safe 
driving practices among our employees and 
contractors. We use vehicle monitoring devices 
to help ensure that employees operate vehicles 
safely on public roadways. When warranted, we 
also implement dust-suppression measures to 
reduce the impact on nearby residents and for 
the safety of other vehicles traveling on the road. 
In addition, we reduce truck traffic and impacts 
on roads by using pipelines instead of vehicles 
to transport water and oil whenever possible.
Noise, light and odor are other common 
community concerns. We install sound barriers 
as needed, often by planting trees for noise as 
well as visual screening, and we use specialized 
lighting to reduce the impact on nearby 
residents.
We have also introduced several important 
modifications in our operations, including by 
installing shielding on certain lights, 
experimenting with different fixtures and 
adjusting our lighting so that it points downward 
rather than up toward the night sky.
Odor from our operations can occur when a 
formation contains hydrogen sulfide. If hydrogen 
sulfide emissions cannot be addressed through 
the well-siting process, we install emission 
controls to mitigate odors and emissions during 
the production stage.Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
79
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
Addressing Community Concerns
While we work hard to anticipate community concerns up 
front through our stakeholder engagement process, it is 
critical that we have a formal process for community 
members to share their concerns with us and for the 
company to be able to document, address and work to 
resolve those concerns. Moreover, we strive for continuous 
improvement, making sure we learn from every complaint, 
and try to avoid any similar issues elsewhere across our 
operations.
As part of our effort to be responsive to community needs, 
we operate a formal grievance telephone line, the Good 
Neighbor Line. This hotline is routed to our Apache Incident 
Management (AIM) call center, ensuring that someone is 
there to answer calls and address community concerns at 
any time of the day or night. The AIM call center is staffed 24 
hours a day by employees in Houston, where they monitor 
security cameras on properties worldwide and catalog any 
concerns that are flagged. We are one of only a few 
independent oil and gas companies with a 24-hour call 
center operated by employees rather than by a third party. 
We believe having our own employees receive community 
concerns allows us to respond more quickly and effectively.We have also established a tracking and ticketing system 
and a matrix for cataloging the types of concerns raised. 
Grievances are consolidated and maintained in a central 
system, and issues are routed to the appropriate contact for 
further action. Common types of inquiries include safety 
concerns regarding employees and contractors, and general 
questions regarding our operations. All inquiries receive a 
thorough, individualized investigation to determine the 
underlying details and develop appropriate resolutions. 
Company representatives work to address each situation 
and provide a timely response to the inquiry. Most issues 
are successfully resolved within 72 hours.
In 2021, the Good Neighbor Line received two phone calls 
from individuals concerned about safety compliance and 
issues regarding site traffic. Both complaints were 
addressed and resolved. 
PARTNERING WITH THE PERMIAN BASIN
We are a founding member of the Permian Strategic Partnership, 
a coalition of 17 energy companies partnering with local leaders 
in the Permian Basin to improve residents’ quality of life by 
addressing growing challenges, such as affordable housing, road 
safety, and access to quality health care and public education.GOOD NEIGHBOR LINE
We have grievance mechanisms for public 
feedback, concerns and comments, including in 
person at our offices and via email, phone and 
social media. Community grievances can also 
be made to the company via our toll-free Good 
Neighbor Line: 1-866-705-2400 .
TexasNew
Mexico
Permian BasinIntroduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
80
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportWhether through education, training, employment or service agreements, we strive to ensure 
that our projects have direct and long-lasting benefits for host country citizens and their local 
communities. In Suriname, where we are still in the initial stages of oil and gas exploration and 
appraisal, we look for ways to make a meaningful impact on a variety of social causes and are 
already making investments in local employment capacity-building, health and welfare.
We are working to build local employment capacity to support our future offshore production 
facilities and expand opportunity for local communities. As part of this effort, we helped fund a 
2017 baseline survey to understand the labor capacity of the industrial service sector in 
Suriname. The survey found that there are significant gaps in the labor pool required to meet the 
needs of the offshore industry and identified a need to update vocational and technical learning 
opportunities. Based on these findings, we are engaging with Surinamese education authorities 
to develop resources that will help fill these gaps and facilitate the participation of local talent in 
future offshore development.
We are also supporting the development of local technical skills by sponsoring a two-year 
master’s program with Anton de Kom University, the only university in the southern  
Caribbean that offers a graduate degree in petroleum geology. A master’s degree in this field 
would be instrumental in helping Surinamese nationals establish technical careers in the oil  
and gas industry. 
Most of our other social investments in Suriname focus on health and welfare, particularly for 
disadvantaged communities. In 2019, we initiated the construction of a women’s shelter in 
association with STICRIS (Women’s Shelter Foundation in Critical Situations) in the capital city 
of Paramaribo. Now completed, this shelter provides services for up to 11 women and their 
children at any given time. Despite the COVID-19 pandemic, the construction of the building was 
finalized and handed over to the foundation in November 2020 in time to meet increasing 
demand due to the pandemic. In 2021, APA continued its support of STICRIS by providing 
continued security upgrades and needed supplies and resources.CASE STUDY
Engaging the Surinamese Community
80 APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
81
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportHuman Rights
Respect for human rights is at the core of APA’s values and operations. 
We support the honest, fair and dignified treatment of all human beings.
Our Human Rights Principles formalize our practices and are 
consistent with the framework laid out by John Ruggie, who 
served as United Nations special representative on business 
and human rights.
Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics outlines for all 
employees the company’s high standards for anti-
discrimination, anti-harassment, workplace safety and 
health, and fair employment practices (including prohibitions 
on forced child labor), and we train each employee annually 
on those policies.
Our Global Supply Chain department developed a  
Supplier Code of Conduct  to ensure that our suppliers and 
contractors meet our expectations related to human rights, 
supplier diversity, health and safety, labor practices, 
business integrity, ethics, intellectual property management 
and the environment. These standards are based on 
well-respected and recognized international standards, 
including those of the International Labour Organization, the 
U.N. Universal Declaration of Human Rights and industry 
best practices. Compliance with these standards is an 
expectation of doing business with APA. The code defines 
the nonnegotiable minimum standards that our suppliers 
and contractors, and their sub-tier suppliers or 
subcontractors are expected to respect and adhere to.Additionally, through our master services agreements,   
we require suppliers and contractors to have their own  
Code of Conduct or Code of Ethics and to conduct business 
with their supply chains in a way that respects and adheres 
to human rights principles, including the prevention of 
human trafficking.
Three of APA’s subsidiaries based in the U.K. — Apache 
North Sea Limited, Apache Beryl I Limited and Apache 
North Sea Production Limited — publish annual statements  
in accordance with the U.K. Modern Slavery Act. This law 
requires certain companies doing business in the U.K. to 
post a statement regarding the steps the company has taken 
to ensure, as much as reasonably possible, that modern 
slavery or human trafficking is not taking place within the 
organization or its supply chain.
Every employee is given instruction on how to report any 
suspected human rights issues to our 24-hour hotline and/
or our Compliance, HR and Legal departments. APA requires 
all office and field personnel to report any human rights 
issues they may identify in the course of their business. 
The company monitors adherence to these principles and 
the results are thoroughly assessed and reported annually to 
the Corporate Responsibility, Governance & Nominating 
Committee of our Board.APA requires all office and 
field personnel to report any 
human rights issues they  
may identify in the course  
of their business. ”“
Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
82
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportAddressing Human Trafficking
Human trafficking is one of the fastest-growing organized 
crime activities around the world and is increasingly 
common in areas with new and rapidly expanding  
economic activity.
We have taken a leadership role in our industry to address 
human trafficking. We are an active member of the Oil and 
Gas Trafficking Advocacy Group, which works to prevent  
sex and labor trafficking at home and abroad. The group, 
composed of numerous oil and gas companies, meets 
regularly to discuss prevention and awareness topics and 
the role the industry can play in ending trafficking, for the 
safety and security of the communities in which we live  
and work.
We proactively inform employees, contractors and suppliers 
of available resources that describe trafficking behaviors to 
watch for, and we provide the National Human Trafficking 
Hotline number to report these behaviors.
We have also hosted town halls and presentations with our 
contracting firms to alert them to the dangers of human 
trafficking and to highlight ways they can help prevent it. 
Those who suspect a trafficking crime might be taking place 
in the U.S. are encouraged to phone the National Human 
Trafficking Hotline or to call local law enforcement agencies.
Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics prohibits 
employees from engaging in any illegal activities, such as 
soliciting prostitution, that could support human trafficking.Respecting Indigenous Peoples
An integral part of our business is building enduring 
relationships with the communities in which we operate. 
This commitment includes recognition of and respect for the 
Indigenous peoples who live and work in these communities 
and have a strong connection to the land. We seek to 
incorporate Indigenous perspectives into project planning, 
design and execution, as well as operational planning. 
During the exploration and development phase of a project, 
we promote open communication by conducting community 
meetings and working directly with Indigenous groups and 
local nongovernmental organizations.
We recently updated APA’s Indigenous Peoples Principles  as 
part of our regular review and monitoring of our human 
rights principles. These principles will be reviewed regularly, 
including when entering new operating areas, and updated 
to ensure that they meet with the changing expectations of 
our global landscape. The Good Neighbor Line, APA’s 
community grievance mechanism, is also available to 
Indigenous peoples to communicate concerns or issues.
NATIONAL HUMAN   
TRAFFICKING HOTLINE
Call: 1-888-373-7888
(TTY: 711)
Text 233733
Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
83
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
GOVERNANCE
At APA Corporation (APA), we believe that 
maintaining robust and contemporary corporate 
governance practices is vital to the success of our 
business. Effective governance can help APA deliver 
value, protect our reputation, and enable us to better 
understand and respond to the varied needs of our 
stakeholders. Beyond just a set of written principles 
and protocols, Corporate Governance is embedded 
in our culture of transparency and integrity, which is 
demonstrated daily in our actions and engagements.
Corporate Governance and          
Compensation Practices84
Governance 85
Engagement 90
About This Report 93
Endnotes 96
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report 83Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
84
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportCorporate Governance and 
Compensation Practices
Our corporate governance policies and practices are regularly reviewed at the Board level, 
and changes are made as appropriate. We seek input from a wide array of stakeholders to 
ensure our governance structure evolves to keep pace with the ever-changing needs and 
expectations of the world in which we operate.
APA continues to progress its governance and compensation 
framework to further align with corporate best practices.  
In many cases, this is based on direct feedback from our 
stakeholders. Specific examples of improvements we  
made include:
  Linking a portion of annual and long-term incentive 
compensation of all employees directly to environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) goals that address routine 
flaring, freshwater consumption and diversity and 
inclusion programs.
  Enhancing compliance, safety, and diversity and inclusion 
training; expanding skills development opportunities; and 
improving the health, wellness, education and diversity of 
our workforce.  Board oversight of adherence to human rights principles, 
diversity initiatives, ESG strategy, environmental 
performance, health and safety performance, political 
contributions, climate change and transition risks, and risk 
management.
  Further expanding and improving our annual proxy 
statement explanation of our pay practices and their 
alignment with strategic goals, including ESG topics.
  Maintaining an independent, nonexecutive Board chair.
  All three board committees are chaired by diverse  
board members.
  Refreshing and expanding the diversity of our Board 
members, 50% of whom are now diverse in terms of 
gender or ethnicity.²⁵
  Adopting ongoing enhancements to both our Human 
Rights Principles and Indigenous Peoples Principles.
  Maintaining an externally hosted hotline through which 
any person may report, anonymously if they so choose, 
suspected violations of law or APA policies.
Corporate Governance
by the Numbers
 20%
of incentive compensation for all 
employees is tied to ESG goals.
50%
of Board members are diverse in  
terms of gender or ethnicity.²⁵
Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
85
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportGovernance
APA’s CEO and president is responsible for delivering the company’s corporate strategy 
and objectives, while ensuring safe operations and prudent financial management.   
The Board of Directors, which is elected by the company’s shareholders, oversees 
management and ensures that the long-term interests of shareholders are being served.
Board of Directors
APA’s Board of Directors plays a vital role in the design, 
implementation and monitoring of our corporate governance 
practices. All of APA’s nonemployee Directors, including the 
Board chair, are independent in accordance with standards 
established by Nasdaq and the Securities and Exchange 
Commission. Board members are selected based on a wide 
range of criteria, including expertise; dedication to the 
highest ethical, health, safety and environmental standards; 
and a willingness to question and challenge management.
The Board’s diversity encompasses — among other 
elements — race, gender, age and experience. In 2022,  
50% of APA’s Board members are female or ethnic 
minorities.²⁵ These Directors play critical roles on our Board, 
including chairing the Corporate Responsibility, Governance 
and Nominating (CRG&N) Committee, the Management 
Development and Compensation Committee, and the Audit 
Committee, and taking a leading role in our shareholder 
engagement.In addition, 60% of current Directors have experience  
with environmental and regulatory issues.²⁵ Our Directors 
have acquired applicable experience through their 
respective service as executives in areas that require 
extensive interaction with regulatory and environmental 
agencies. (A comprehensive matrix on p. 103 provides 
additional details on the Board of Directors’ experience  
and demographics.)
In recent years, we have taken several steps to improve 
Board composition and succession that will ensure ongoing 
access to relevant expertise and seasoned experience. As of 
the 2022 annual meeting of shareholders, the Board’s 
average term length is 5.6 years. Nine of the Board’s 11 
members were appointed after 2014, and all Board 
members are subject to a mandatory retirement age of 75. 
Each year, the Board conducts a comprehensive Board 
evaluation process for every Director, which includes 
in-depth conversations and personalized feedback.
Enterprise Risk Management
Employees throughout the organization are responsible   
for ongoing identification and management of operational 
and nonoperational risks. As part of these efforts, both 
operations and non-operations risk owners formally  
review risk registers on a semiannual basis, updating  
them as necessary, including identifying and evaluating 
emerging risks.
These efforts are supported by our corporate Enterprise 
Risk Management (ERM) function overseen by the vice 
president of Internal Audit, Risk Management and 
Compliance, which ensures that procedures are in place for 
the corporatewide identification and management of both 
nonoperational and operational risks and provides oversight 
of ongoing, companywide monitoring and risk management. 
Climate matters and attendant risks posed to the company 
are included in this process. Aspects of risk management, 
including an annual update on the overall risk management 
program, are reported directly to the Board of Directors’ 
Audit Committee.
Above:  Apache’s CEO and president, John J. Christmann IV, right, discusses 
company strategy and objectives in a virtual forum with employees globally.Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
86
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportWe continue to improve the ERM function each year, 
including enhancing processes related to risk identification, 
risk assessment and monitoring of remediation actions and 
effectiveness. We have further progressed risk ranking 
methodologies and identification of key risk indicators to aid 
in management of existing and emerging risks. For example, 
we implemented a new risk management information 
technology (IT) application in 2021, which serves as a 
common repository for company risk data and provides an 
automated means of tracking and reporting on the 
effectiveness of our risk mitigations.
We have also strengthened our approach to enterprise risk 
by bringing in a new full-time head of Enterprise Risk who is 
primarily focused on corporatewide identification and 
management of both nonoperational and operational risks. 
In addition, we formed a Corporate Risk Management 
Committee comprised of executive leadership team 
members. ERM provides regular updates to the Corporate 
Risk Management Committee on the status of risk 
management and emerging risks.
Internal Audit
Our Internal Audit group is an independent, objective 
assurance and consulting function designed to add value  
by assessing and improving the company’s operations and 
processes. The group applies a systematic, disciplined 
approach to evaluating and improving the effectiveness of 
risk management, internal controls, governance and 
business processes. The group reports to the Board of 
Directors’ Audit Committee, providing an independent 
assessment mechanism for the Board concerning the 
company’s business practices and performance. Internal 
auditors assess more than 100 different departments and 
processes across the company. Based on audit results, the 
Internal Audit group develops specific recommendations for 
continuous improvement.
Audit targets are chosen based on a detailed risk 
assessment protocol, to ensure that every group or process 
is generally reviewed at least once every four years, with 
many reviewed more frequently. Examples of audits 
conducted include enterprise risk management processes, 
supply chain activities, various operational and financial 
functions, greenhouse gas emissions, safety reporting, IT 
systems and processes, and governance practices. Our 
Internal Audit group also verifies all content and data in this 
Sustainability Report (see About This Report, p. 93) .In addition to conducting our own rigorous internal audits, 
we participate in a range of third-party reviews that provide 
an external assessment of, and insight into, the effectiveness 
of our processes and performance. Moving forward, we will 
continue to use external reviews, as well as our own Internal 
Audit process, to identify and address opportunities to 
improve safety, environmental and social performance.
Compliance
The goal of our Compliance and Ethics program is to 
support value creation by promoting responsible conduct  
in accordance with applicable laws, rules, regulations and 
government requirements. The program provides guidance, 
training, oversight, enforcement and reporting. The director 
of Compliance seeks to ensure that the company has 
well-defined and articulated standards and procedures 
designed to deter and detect misconduct. Internal Audit 
conducts periodic testing of the compliance program, 
reinforcing efficiency and effectiveness and enabling 
program enhancements. These standards, and specifically 
our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics , are 
communicated utilizing a wide range of examples, effectively 
translating our overarching policies and standards into 
real-world, on-the-job scenarios. All employees are required 
to participate in annual compliance and ethics training 
relevant to their work and have the responsibility to report 
any suspected misconduct or unethical or illegal activity.
Our online training module allows us to provide instruction 
on various compliance topics in four languages, and is 
refreshed annually. To increase the retention and 
effectiveness of this training, we strive to make sure that 
employees have the information they need at the time it is 
most necessary and relevant to their work. For example, to 
reinforce the company’s anti-corruption policies and 
procedures, we now provide easy to absorb, mobile-
accessible information before any employee travels abroad 
on company business.
Key company policies are reinforced through compliance 
bulletins and a newly improved Compliance and Ethics 
intranet page, which provide relatable examples and 
explanations of internal policies and requirements in 
response to major national issues or internal investigations. 
New employees are introduced to our Code of Business 
Conduct and Ethics; our compliance policies, such as our 
Conflicts of Interest policy; and our commitment to 
combating corruption, through online training as they begin 
their careers at Apache. Additionally, as part of our Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
87
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Reportpandemic response, we reiterated our requirements for 
workplace conduct, reminded employees of changes in their 
jobs or roles — both within and outside the organization — 
and that their conflict-of-interest disclosures may need to be 
updated. 
We are committed to preserving, protecting and fostering 
the culture of trust and integrity that has long defined   
our company. Doing this requires that every Board Director, 
officer, employee and contractor voice their concern if  
they observe or suspect a violation of the law or the 
company’s policies.
To facilitate this reporting, we maintain an Ethics Hotline,  
a 24-hour, anonymous third-party hotline hosted by 
Convercent. Employees and external stakeholders may 
submit anonymous reports relating to suspected unethical 
conduct or possible violations of our standards, policies, 
procedures or regulations. Concerns may be submitted 
online  or by telephone. All concerns related to potential 
misconduct involving any company representative — 
whether received through the Ethics Hotline or otherwise 
— are tracked and investigated by the director of 
Compliance, with assistance as necessary from other 
functions throughout the organization. In addition to the 
Ethics Hotline, a procedure for submitting a complaint or 
concern regarding accounting, internal accounting controls 
or auditing matters is available on our website.
Concerns that fall under the following categories are 
escalated for reporting to the CEO, general counsel and vice 
president of Human Resources, and then promptly reported 
to a designated member of APA’s Board of Directors if they:
  May involve substantial risk to human health or safety.
  Pose potential for criminal liability or fines against   
the company.
  May involve potential antitrust, bribery or   
corruption violations.
  Pose concerns that otherwise merit escalation.
Ethics and Anti-Corruption
Our policy is to conduct business fairly, ethically and in 
compliance with applicable laws, regulations and other 
government requirements. Our Code of Business Conduct
and Ethics requires not only the avoidance of misconduct, 
but also the avoidance of acts or omissions that may give the 
appearance of misconduct.Our Code is based on our Core Values and outlines our 
commitment to high standards of conduct applicable to 
every employee, including, but not limited to, the areas of 
equal employment opportunity, anti-harassment, social 
media guidelines, conflicts of interest, handling of 
confidential information, data privacy and recordkeeping, 
anti-corruption and anti-bribery, political contributions and 
lobbying, and insider trading. In addition, the Code and 
supplementary policies, such as the company’s Voice Your 
Concern Policy, emphasize every employee’s duty to report 
any suspected violation of law or company policies, provide 
guidance on how to submit a report, highlight and reinforce 
our anti-retaliation policy, and outline our investigation and 
enforcement process.
All employees, as well as APA’s Board of Directors, receive 
training on the Code as part of the hiring and onboarding 
process and are then required to annually certify that they 
have read the Code and fulfilled the requirements and 
expectations set forth in the document. Directors, officers 
and employees are responsible for promptly reporting any 
actual, attempted or apparent violations of applicable laws, 
rules, regulations or company policies.
ETHICS HOTLINE
North America: 866-756-2599
Egypt: 0800-000-9534
Trinidad: 800-203-0148
United Kingdom: UFIN 00-800-5588-1345
Other countries: 800-5588-1345
Online Form
100%
of employees and Directors completed 
the Code of Business Conduct and 
Ethics certification in 2021.
 Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
88
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportIn 2021, we worked with a third-party consultant to revamp 
the training and recertification process for the Code. To 
continue to adapt to the changing work environment 
induced by the pandemic, training was again administered in 
2021 using a third-party module system. We achieved 
100% employee participation in both the Code and 
anti-bribery corruption training online. The standard policies 
of the Code will be reviewed annually and rotated in content 
modules that capture trending and newsworthy topics. This 
new system works in tandem with the company’s ‘A’ Game 
learning system and notification process for all employees. 
The Code is offered to employees in English, Spanish and 
Arabic, and the training modules include an additional  
Dutch option.
Our Board of Directors annually reviews the Code and 
makes updates or revisions where necessary or appropriate.
Additionally, employees are required to follow our company-
specific Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) Compliance 
Guide , and all employees, particularly including those who 
engage directly with foreign governments or officials or 
otherwise, may deal with issues implicated by the FCPA or 
other applicable anti-corruption laws, receive annual training 
on the FCPA and its relevance to their work. All employees 
are also required to read and understand our policies and 
procedures with respect to matters that may pertain to the 
FCPA or similar laws.In 2019, the company updated its conflicts of interest,  
and gifts and entertainment policies, and introduced a  
new disclosure module. We expanded related policies to 
underscore our commitment to ethical conduct, honesty  
and transparency. In 2022, we will launch a new online 
conflicts of interest training and attestation program that  
all employees worldwide will be required to participate   
in annually.
Public Policy and Political Disclosures
We operate in the highly regulated natural gas and oil 
industry on an international level, with our operations 
affected by the policies of local, state and federal 
governments. The company participates in the political and 
public policy process in a responsible and ethical way that 
serves both the best interests of our shareholders and the 
safety and well-being of our workforce and other key 
stakeholders. Our public policy activities include education 
and advocacy efforts at all levels of government.
We are committed to complying with all applicable state and 
federal rules pertaining to lobbying and disclosures. 
Relevant reports regarding our activities are publicly 
available on the appropriate state and U.S. federal websites 
including the Office of the Clerk, U.S. House of 
Representatives; the Secretary of the Senate, U.S. Senate; 
and the various state ethics commissions.
In addition to following external regulations, we have 
developed our own policy on political contributions and 
lobbying expenditures, including Board oversight thereof. 
This policy  can be accessed on the APA Corporation 
website.  Our Government Affairs function manages and 
coordinates the company’s political and public policy 
activities, and provides an annual disclosure of those 
activities in our Disclosure of Political Contributions and
Lobbying  on the APA Corporation website.100%
of employees completed cybersecurity 
awareness training in 2021.
 
APA IS A TRENDSETTER IN POLITICAL DISCLOSURE    
AND ACCOUNTABILITY AMONG ALL S&P 500 COMPANIES
The CPA-Zicklin Index benchmarks the political disclosure and accountability policies and 
practices for election-related spending of leading U.S. public companies. Issued annually, it 
is produced by the Center for Political Accountability, in conjunction with the Zicklin Center 
for Business Ethics Research at The Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. For 
the last five years, we have maintained the distinction of “trendsetter” for our policies and 
proactive disclosures.
Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
89
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportPOLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS
In the U.S., we may consider corporate contributions, where 
allowable by law, for direct expenditures and/or independent 
expenditures in support of candidates, ballot measures, 
inaugurations, political party conventions and/or causes that 
align with the company’s business objectives. All 
contributions using corporate funds are reviewed and 
approved by the CRG&N Committee.
Employees can support candidates for public office through 
the Apache Political Action Committee (ApachePAC), which 
is funded exclusively through voluntary contributions from 
eligible employees. Employee contributions to ApachePAC 
are not tax deductible, nor matched or reimbursed by the 
company, either directly or indirectly.
ApachePAC contributes to federal and state political 
candidates who support responsible development of oil  
and natural gas and other business issues of interest to   
the company. Disbursements by ApachePAC are made 
solely based upon the best interests of the company and  
its shareholders, not on the personal agendas of individual 
Directors, officers or employees. Distributions are approved 
by the ApachePAC Board, per the ApachePAC policy. All 
ApachePAC contributions are fully disclosed in reports  
filed with the Federal Election Commission (FEC) and the 
various state ethics commissions, which can be accessed  
on the FEC’s website at fec.gov  and on the respective  
state websites.
TRADE ASSOCIATIONS
APA is actively involved in trade and industry associations to 
share technical expertise and best practices. Additionally, 
we participate in important public education and advocacy 
efforts regarding major issues relevant to our industry.
Our participation in trade and industry associations is 
subject to management oversight by our Government Affairs 
function, which approves our memberships and serves as 
our principal representative in such associations.
We pay regular membership dues to several trade 
associations. Some utilize a portion of those dues for 
nondeductible state and federal lobbying and political 
expenditures. Per the requirements of Section 162(e)(1)   
of the Internal Revenue Code, such trade associations must 
provide us with the percentage of our annual dues that   
are attributable to lobbying and political expenses. We 
disclose these contributions and post a report  annually   
on our website.LOBBYING
We lawfully engage in the legislative process to 
communicate our views on legislative and regulatory matters 
affecting our business at the federal, state and local levels. 
This activity is subject to various federal and state rules and 
regulations, and we are committed to complying with those 
requirements.
EVOLVING CYBERSECURITY
Cyberattacks use increasingly sophisticated methods 
and could pose serious risks to our company’s revenue, 
reputation, data integrity and ability to operate in a safe and 
environmentally responsible way. We are working to reduce 
the risks posed by malicious online actors through an evolving 
combination of technology and expertise. Our Information 
Technology Security team is on the frontline every day, 
monitoring, identifying, preventing and responding to potential 
cyberattacks that threaten the company. 
In 2020, we launched the CyberSmart employee security 
awareness and education initiative. This program has evolved 
into a yearlong instructional campaign that includes online 
courses, simulated threats, educational opportunities with 
internal and external subject-matter experts, webinars and 
required attestation of the company’s cybersecurity policies 
for all employees. In addition, we continue to work with our 
technology partners to assess existing controls, design secure 
networks and defend our systems against the current global 
threat landscape.
To help ensure the ongoing strength and effectiveness of our 
efforts, cybersecurity is overseen at the Board level.
Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
90
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportEngagement
Stakeholder Engagement
We regularly engage with a wide range of stakeholders to 
gain their insights and input on issues, trends, best practices 
and specific stakeholder interests and concerns. Both the 
Board of Directors and senior management recognize that 
the long-term interests of shareholders are advanced by 
responsibly addressing the concerns of other stakeholders 
and interested parties, including employees, customers, 
suppliers, government officials and the public at large  
(see the Community section starting on p. 78 to read  
more about our approach to stakeholder engagement) .
Shareholder Engagement
We place significant importance on engagement with   
our investors. We regularly engage with shareholders  
and appreciate feedback on topics such as corporate 
governance, business strategy, compensation and  
ESG issues.
Our shareholder engagement starts at the top. The Board 
values our shareholders’ perspectives and welcomes 
feedback on our business, corporate governance, executive 
compensation and sustainability practices.
Our independent Board chair and other Board members   
are accessible to shareholders at our annual meeting and 
governance events. In addition, Board members engage   
with shareholders individually throughout the year. Board 
members can also be contacted through our corporate 
secretary, who relays communications to them as 
appropriate.
The CEO and president and other members of the  
executive team maintain an active schedule of meetings  
and communications with shareholders. Our CEO holds an 
annual meeting with a diverse group of our stakeholders to 
discuss ESG issues and progress on targets and goals for 
the coming year. In that meeting, these investors can pose 
questions on ESG and other subjects and receive answers 
directly from our CEO.In addition to numerous investor conferences, the executive 
team regularly visits shareholders in their offices, hosts 
meetings in our corporate office in Houston, and hosts site 
visits for more focused discussions on company operations. 
For example, we have given direct access to our  
operations and personnel through field visits to water 
recycling facilities, well completion operations and data 
analytics centers.
In 2021, members of our Board and management reached 
out directly to shareholders representing approximately 
63% of outstanding shares to discuss, among other topics, 
our business strategy; our compensation practices, 
particularly considering the COVID-19 pandemic; diversity 
and inclusion; and environmental and social stewardship. 
Shareholders owning approximately 55% of our shares 
either met with us in engagement meetings, attended our 
ESG event with our CEO and president, or told us no 
meeting was necessary this year. Based on feedback from 
these discussions, we have continued to increase the level 
of our disclosures in this Sustainability Report and in our 
proxy statement, and have modified our compensation 
program, among other improvements.
Above:  APA Suriname hosts President Chan Santokhi of Suriname, far right, 
and U.S. Ambassador Karen L. Williams, center right, on an offshore rig tour.Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
91
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT OVERVIEW
The table below summarizes how we engage with key stakeholder groups.
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report 91Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
   Stakeholder Group Engagement Methods Read More in this Report
Investors   Annual shareholder meeting
   Investor days and conferences
   ESG-focused investor meetings
   Governance conferences 
   Ongoing one-on-one investor discussionsShareholder Engagement, p. 90
Employees   Ongoing employee trainings
   Quarterly employee town halls
   Regular leadership communications
   Employee satisfaction surveys
   Safety SurveyLearning and Development, p. 52
Employee Engagement, p. 53
Landowners and 
mineral owners  Ongoing engagement via our land department
  Community grievance line and resolution processUnderstanding and Addressing Stakeholder 
Concerns, p. 78
Local communities   Local community outreach and philanthropy
  Community grievance line and resolution process
   Community meetings
   Local job fairs and other recruitment effortsOur Approach to Social Investing and 
Community Engagement, p. 68
Understanding and Addressing Stakeholder 
Concerns, pp. 78-79
Suppliers and contractors  Contractor vetting process
  Ongoing contractor assessments
  Contractor engagement meetingsContractor Management, p. 63
Regulators and 
government entities  Supporting regulatory development as relevant     
to our business
  In collaboration with trade associationsTrade Associations, p. 89
NGOs and academics  ESG investor engagement
  Research support and fundingESG Engagement, p. 16 
Seismicity and Oil and Gas Operations, p. 41
Shareholder Engagement, p. 90
Local media  Regular contact with and response to local 
television stations, newspapers and radio stations
92
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
GOVERNANCE DOCUMENTS
To view these documents, visit apacorp.com/about/governance/governance-documents/ .
APA’s Audit Committee Charter
APA’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
APA’s Corporate Governance Principles
APA’s Corporate Responsibility, Governance and Nominating Committee Charter
APA’s Directors’ and Officers’ Stock Ownership Requirements
APA’s Executive Compensation Clawback Policy
APA’s Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Anti-Corruption Compliance Guide
APA’s Human Rights Principles
APA’s Indigenous Peoples Principles
APA’s Management Development and Compensation Committee Charter
APA’s Margin Loans and Pledges by Directors and Officers
APA’s Monitoring of Human Rights Principles
APA’s Policy on Parachute Payments for Executives and Accelerated Vesting of Equity Upon Change in Control
APA’s Policy on Prohibiting Hedging APA Securities by Directors and Officers
APA’s Political Contributions and Lobbying Expenditures Policy
APA’s Procedures for the Submission of Complaints and Concerns Regarding Accounting, Internal Accounting Controls, or Auditing Matters
APA’s Supplier Code of ConductIntroduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
93
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
About This Report
Our 2022 Sustainability Report covers the 
performance of APA Corporation (APA) in 
the areas of community involvement, 
governance and environmental stewardship 
— in particular, air and water, health and 
safety, workplace and employee issues.The report was prepared in accordance with the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting  
Standards at the core level. We also consulted the Oil and 
Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting 
developed by Ipieca (the global oil and gas industry 
association for environmental and social issues), the 
American Petroleum Institute and the International 
Association of Oil & Gas Producers; the Sustainability 
Accounting Standards Board’s Oil and Gas Exploration and 
Production Sustainability Accounting Standard (SASB); as 
well as the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) (see the Reporting 
Standards and Frameworks section starting on p. 114 for an 
index of indicators from these frameworks discussed in  
this report).
Data included in this report cover the 2021 calendar year 
unless otherwise noted.Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
94
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportIdentifying Our Most Important Issues
Last year, we conducted an update to the materiality 
assessment previously completed in 2017. The results and 
feedback from the 2021 assessment helped us to 
understand both internal and external stakeholders’ 
perspectives on the most important sustainability issues 
associated with our operations. The results of that analysis 
have remained relevant and helped to guide the content of  
this report.
We determined our most important issues through a 
four-step process:
1. Identify:  We identified our sustainability-related  
issues, impacts, benefits, risks and opportunities by 
interviewing a range of internal and external 
stakeholders, reviewing documents representing a wide 
variety of stakeholder views and interests, and reviewing 
peer companies’ critical issues. For our internal 
stakeholders, we considered the perspectives of 
employees from across our organization. The external 
stakeholders interviewed included mainstream investors, 
ESG-focused investors, institutional lenders, ESG-
focused nonprofit organizations, NGOs, customers, 
academics, community members and leaders in the 
areas where we operate, as well as regulators. Based on 
these interviews and documents reviewed, we 
developed a comprehensive list of issues across a  
suite of topics, including governance, environment  
and society.
2.  Prioritize:  Issues were prioritized based on the level of 
importance internal and external stakeholders placed on 
those issues and the level of risk or opportunity they 
represent to the company and to external stakeholders. 
Level of risk or opportunity was developed based on the 
potential for each issue to positively or negatively impact 
the environment, local communities, employees, 
contractors and the company’s financial performance.
3. Review and revise: We reviewed the initial prioritization 
with internal stakeholders to validate the issue ratings by 
importance and revised them as needed.
4. Determine report content: We used the final issues list 
to evaluate whether we were adequately reporting on the 
issues that are most important to our internal and 
external stakeholders. Our analysis confirmed that the 
issues on which we have consistently reported are, in 
fact, the issues of greatest concern to our stakeholders.Moving forward, we plan to review and update this analysis 
regularly, and we will continue to revise our report content 
based on the results.
APA’s Important Issues²⁶
Based on our 2021 materiality analysis, we found that the 
following issues are of highest importance to our internal 
and external stakeholders:
  Impacts of climate change on business, transition plans, 
greenhouse gas emissions.
  Employee and contractor health and safety.
  ESG integration and accountability (e.g., goals/targets, 
executive compensation).
  Regulation and compliance.
  Reporting and transparency on ESG issues.
  Diversity, equity and inclusion of our workforce.
  Water availability, water quality and wastewater 
management.
  Spills, releases and process safety.
  Biodiversity/site impacts.
  Local economic impacts.
Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
95
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportIncreasing Transparency
We believe that transparency is critical to our relationships 
with stakeholders, and we strive to continuously improve the 
breadth and quality of the data we present. In this year’s 
report, we have enhanced disclosures related to our:
  Progress toward ESG goals.
  TCFD analysis utilizing IEA’s 2021 WEO scenario plans, 
including Stated Policies Scenario (STEPS), Announced 
Pledges Scenario (APS) and Sustainable Development 
Scenario (SDS) scenarios.
  Detailed disclosure of 2021 water and air data at  
country level.
  2021 safety performance and the improvements in the 
following areas: Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR), 
Days Away, Restricted and Transfer rate (DART), Severe 
Injury and Fatality (SIF) and Vehicle Incident Rate (VIR).
 Discussion on our efforts to affect global progress and 
energy security.
 Increased board diversity both in ethnicity and global 
leadership experience. Assuring Report Content
At APA Corporation, we hold ourselves to a high standard  
of accuracy and excellence in all our activities, including the 
content of this Sustainability Report. This report was 
developed by a cross-functional team of subject-matter 
experts throughout the company and reviewed by select 
members of our executive team, as well as our Internal Audit 
function (described on p. 86) . The rigorous internal review 
included verifying data points and facts, providing added 
accountability for the accuracy of this report. See p. 131 for 
a more detailed description of “forward-looking statements.”Content has been organized  
to align with our three   
ESG pillars: Air, Water and 
Communities+People.“
”
Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
96
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report1  IEA (2020), Defining energy access: 2020 methodology , International Energy Agency, Paris, https://www.iea.
org/articles/defining-energy-access-2020-methodology .
2  IEA (2021), Tracking SDG7: The Energy Progress Report, 2021 , IEA, Paris https://www.iea.org/reports/
tracking-sdg7-the-energy-progress-report-2021 , pp. 1-2.
3  Table 1. Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U): U.S. city average, by expenditure category - 
2022 M02 Results (bls.gov)
4  U.S. Census Bureau, March 2022 Household Pulse Survey, https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/
household-pulse-survey/data.html .
5  U.K. Office for National Statistics, January 2022 Consumer Price Inflation: https://www.ons.gov.uk/economy/
inflationandpriceindices/bulletins/consumerpriceinflation/january2022 .
6  U.K. Office of Gas and Electricity Markets, February 2022 press release, “Price cap to increase by £693 from 
April,” https://www.ofgem.gov.uk/publications/price-cap-increase-ps693-april .
7  German Federal Statistical Office, September 2021 press release, “Electricity production in the 1st 
half of 2021: coal most important energy source,” https://www.destatis.de/EN/Press/2021/09/
PE21_429_43312.html .
8  German Federal Statistical Office, October 2021 press release, “Inflation rate at +4.5% in October 2021,”  
https://www.destatis.de/EN/Press/2021/11/PE21_513_611.html .
9  World Health Organization, September 2021 fact sheet, “Household air pollution and health,”   
https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/household-air-pollution-and-health .
10  IEA (2020), World Energy Outlook 2020 , IEA, Paris, https://www.iea.org/reports/world-energy-outlook-2020 , 
p. 201.
11  IEA, WEO 2017 Special Report: Energy Access Outlook , WEO-2017 Special Report: Energy Access Outlook 
(windows.net) , p. 57.
¹²  U.S. Energy Information Administration, Monthly Energy Review, Table 1.3 and 10.1, April 2021, preliminary 
data: https://www.eia.gov/energyexplained/us-energy-facts/ .
¹³  IEA, World total final consumption by source , 1971-2019, IEA, Paris, https://www.iea.org/data-and-statistics/
charts/world-total-final-consumption-by-source-1971-2019 .
¹⁴  IEA (2020), “The Oil and Gas Industry in Energy Transitions,” IEA, Paris, https://iea.blob.core.windows.net/
assets/4315f4ed-5cb2-4264-b0ee-2054fd34c118/The_Oil_and_Gas_Industry_in_Energy_Transitions.pdf ,  
p. 14.
¹⁵  IEA (2021), World Energy Outlook 2021 , IEA, Paris, https://www.iea.org/data-and-statistics/data-product/
world-energy-outlook-2021-free-dataset .
¹⁶  International Association of Oil & Gas Producers, Oil in everyday life , https://www.iogp.org/wp-content/
uploads/2017/07/Oils-Many-Uses-ENG.pdf .
¹⁷  IEA (2021), World Energy Outlook 2021 , IEA, Paris, https://www.iea.org/reports/world-energy-outlook-2021 .
¹⁸  IEA (2021), Natural gas demand by scenario, 2010-2030 , IEA, Paris, https://www.iea.org/data-and-statistics/
charts/natural-gas-demand-by-scenario-2010-2030 .
¹⁹  EIA (2021), International Energy Outlook 2021 , IEO2021: Schedule, Focus, and Publication (eia.gov) , p. 13.
²⁰  EIA (2021), Power Plant Operations Report, 2021, https://www.eia.gov/todayinenergy/detail.php?id=48296# .
²¹  EIA (2021), U.S. Energy-Related Carbon Dioxide Emissions, 2020: https://www.eia.gov/environment/
emissions/carbon/ .
²² IEA (2021), Coal consumption by region, 2000 to 2021 , IEA, Paris, https://www.iea.org/data-and-statistics/
charts/coal-consumption-by-region-2000-to-2021 .
²³  IEA (2021), Change in CO 2 emissions by fuel, 1990-2021 , IEA, Paris, https://www.iea.org/data-and-statistics/
charts/change-in-co2-emissions-by-fuel-1990-2021 .
²⁴ Based on Ipieca’s Sustainability Reporting Guidance for the Oil and Gas Industry (2020).
²⁵  On July 14, 2022, Board Chair John E. Lowe announced his retirement, to be effective September 1, 2022.  
In preparation for his departure, we have adjusted Board stats, where applicable, to reflect the future 
10-person Board of Directors.
²⁶  Issues are grouped by topical categories that align with our approach to ESG issues, not in order of importance 
or priority.
²⁷  The IEA crude oil price is a weighted average import price among IEA member countries. IEA, World Energy 
Outlook 2021 , p. 101.EndnotesIntroduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
97
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
Key Performance Data 98
Performance Data by Country 100
Apache’s 2021 Employer Information Report 
EEO-1 Consolidated Report101
Awards and Recognitions 102
Board Matrix 103
Water Scarcity Maps 104
Our TCFD Analysis 105
AXPC ESG Metrics Template 113
Reporting Standards and Frameworks 114APPENDIX
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report 97Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
98
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
Units 2021 2019 2018 2017
Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions1
Operated emissions2 (Scope 1) Thousand tCO 2e  6,000  6,280 7,300  7,580  6,890 
Carbon dioxide Thousand tCO 2e 4,830  4,830  5,600  5,770  5,080 
Methane Thousand tCO 2e  1,130  1,400  1,650  1,760  1,760 
Nitrous oxide Thousand tCO 2e  40  50  50  50  50 
Operated direct emissions (Scope 1) by source
Flaring Thousand tCO 2e 1,470  1,480  2,060  1,970  2,010 
Venting Thousand tCO 2e  520  420  430  810  660 
Fuel combustion Thousand tCO 2e 3,540  3,550  3,790  3,920  3,280 
Fugitives Thousand tCO 2e  470  830  1,020  880  940 
Operated indirect emissions (Scope 2) Thousand tCO 2e  340  490  690  800  850 
Global Emissions Intensities3
Global GHG emissions intensity tCO2e/Mboe 13.9  15.9  17.9 22.2 21.5
Global methane emissions intensity % 0.30 0.28 0.33 0.40 0.42
Global Energy Use
Energy use Thousand MWh  4,600  4,880  5,020  5,320  4,730 
Combustion energy Thousand MWh 3,720  3,730  3,980  4,120  3,450 
Electricity Thousand MWh 880  1,150  1,040  1,200  1,280 
Global Water Use by Source
Total water consumption Thousand Bbls  29,055  11,100  114,521  125,380  124,203 
Freshwater consumption Thousand Bbls  5,572  1,526  25,440  27,996  32,920 
Groundwater Thousand Bbls  3,059  1,526  24,308  23,850  26,999 
Surface water Thousand Bbls  1,043  —    407  2,386  2,513 
Municipal water Thousand Bbls  1,469  —    725  1,759  3,407 
Nonfreshwater consumption Thousand Bbls  23,483  9,575  89,082  97,384  91,284 
Groundwater consumption Thousand Bbls  22,571  9,575  88,043  97,384  90,523 
Surface water consumption Thousand Bbls  913  —    1,039  —    761 
Total water used in production Thousand Bbls  457,364  593,720  524,888  603,952  566,484 
Total recycled/reused4Thousand Bbls  428,310 582,620 410,367 478,572 442,281
Enhanced oil recovery (EOR) reused4Thousand Bbls  416,084 577,542 379,943 446,710 428,865
Hydraulic fracturing recycled/reused4Thousand Bbls  12,226 5,078 30,424 31,863 13,416
Produced water sent for injection disposal Thousand Bbls  290,545 238,208 346,758 197,484 205,713
Global Water Metrics
Freshwater consumption % 19 14 22 22 27
Nonfreshwater consumption % 81 86 78 78 73
Produced water recycled/reused % 48 62 44 55 52
Produced + nonfreshwater as a percent of total    
water usage% 98.8 99.7 95.2 95.4 94.2
Fresh water as a percent of total water usage % 1.2 0.3 4.8 4.6 5.8
Fresh water consumption intensity Bbls/boe 0.04 0.01 0.76 0.87 0.97
U.S. Hydraulic Fracturing Water Use
Nonfreshwater % 61  59  12  22  20 
Produced water captured for reuse % 36  31  51  46  27 
Freshwater use % 3  9  37  32  53 
Spills
Hydrocarbon spills No. >1 Bbl in size 379 302 187  341  302 
Health and Safety
Hours worked - workforce Million hours 50 36 53 54 53
Employee hours worked Hours  11,500,000  12,100,000  15,100,000  15,800,000  15,500,000 
Contractor hours worked Hours  38,600,000  24,000,000  38,000,000  37,800,000  37,800,000 
Employee Total Recordable Incident Rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.21 0.27 0.09  0.28  0.24 
Contractor Total Recordable Incident Rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.27 0.58 0.54  0.80  0.67 
Workforce Total Recordable Incident Rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.26 0.48 0.41  0.65  0.56 
Employee Days Away, Restricted or        
Transferred RatePer 200,000 hours worked 0.14 0.13 0.07  0.17  0.10 
Contractor Days Away, Restricted or           
Transferred RatePer 200,000 hours worked 0.13 0.28 0.21  0.40  0.28 
Workforce Days Away, Restricted or                 
Transferred RatePer 200,000 hours worked 0.13 0.23 0.17  0.33  0.23 
Vehicle Incident Rate Per million miles driven 0.53 0.83 0.79  1.29  1.24 
Workforce fatalities # 0 3 7 1 4
Employee fatalities # 0 0 1 0 0
Contractor fatalities # 0 3 6 1 4Key Performance Data
2020*Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
99
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportUnits 2021 2019 2018 2017
Our People
Global full-time employees # 2,253  2,272 3,163  3,420  3,358 
United States # 1,381  1,430  2,132  2,441  2,411 
United Kingdom # 638  598  638  590  560 
Egypt # 230  237  385  388  386 
Suriname # 2  7  8  1  1 
France # 2  —    —  —   —   
Global Gender Mix
Total female employees % 22.9 22.1
United States % 28.6 27.0
United Kingdom % 12.4 12.0
Egypt %% 17.4 17.0
Suriname % 0.0 14.0
France % 50.0 0.0
Total male employees % 77.1 77.9
Female employees in leadership positions⁵ % 17.6 17.6
Global Age Breakdown (Total Employees)
29 and Under % 7.9 9.9
30-50 % 62.1 60.5
Over 50 % 30.0 29.6
U.S. Ethnicity Mix (Total U.S. Employees)
White % 65.8 66.9
Black % 6.5 6.0
Asian % 7.1 6.8
Hispanic %% 19.1 18.6
Other % 1.5 1.7
U.S. Ethnicity Mix of Leadership ⁵
White % 79.8 77.8
Black % 4.3 3.0
Asian % 6.1 6.3
Hispanic%%8.1 11.5
Other % 1.7 1.4
Economic Contributions
Total local vendor spend $ Million 860  962  1,553  1,443  1,090 
Total global vendor spend $ Million  1,937  2,324  4,116  4,615  4,071 
Local spend percentage % 44 41 38 31 27
Tier 1 U.S. vendor spend with diverse suppliers % 3.8 — — — —
Social Investing
Community⁶ % 79.7 77 74 76 76
Environmental Stewardship % 15.8 21 26 24 24
Access to Energy⁷ % 4.5 2 0 0 0
Financial and Production Highlights
Oil and gas production revenues $ Billion  6.5  4.0  6.3  7.3  5.9 
Natural gas production MMcf/d  830  893 980  966 966   958 958
Oil and natural gas liquids production Mbbls/d  250  291  310  305  298 
Proved reserves MMboe  913  874  1,011  1,234  1,175 Key Performance Data (Continued)
1 Our emissions are determined using engineering calculations and methods outlined  by 
applicable regulations.
2 Operated emissions include Scope 1 emissions calculated under applicable regulatory 
requirements and boundaries in the U.S. and U.K. For operations within the U.S., Scope 1 
emissions include emissions reported to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency under 
Subpart C and Subpart W.
3 Global intensities were calculated using Scope 1 emissions from production and gathering 
and boosting operations in APA’s U.S. and U.K. operating areas and Egypt joint venture 
operations and associated gross production.
4 Recycled/reused water categorization by operational use is new in 2020, and provided for 
years 2016-2019. APA operates a number of secondary recovery fields that utilize 
waterflood drives that reuse produced water. For APA's hydraulic fracturing operations, 
produced water reuse is defined as water that is reused directly without treatment; produced water recycled is defined as water that is treated before reuse, and is     
therefore recycled. 
5 Leadership role defined as supervisor level and above or equivalent.   
6 Community charitable giving includes the following areas: Education; Health & Wellbeing; 
First Responders & Military Support; Women, Youth & Family Services; Community 
Resources; and Arts.
7 Providing access to energy for communities in developing nations, as well as addressing 
reliability and affordability of energy in developed countries.
*  APA significantly reduced activity levels across its operations in early 2020 in   
response to the COVID-19 pandemic and its related impacts. As a result, we view 2019  
as a more relevant base for assessing year-over-year water usage and emissions  
intensity improvements.
Key
Bbls:         barrels of water
Bbls/boe:        barrels of water per barrels of oil equivalent
tCO2e/Mboe:        tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per thousands of  barrels of oil equivalentMWh:         megawatt hour 
MMcf/d:                millions of cubic feet of natural gas per day
Mbbls/d:         thousands of barrels of oil or NGL per day
MMboe:        millions of barrels of oil equivalent2020*Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
100
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportIntroduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
Performance Data 
by Country
2021 Units U.S. U.K. Egypt
Key Emissions Data by Country
Operated emissions (Scope 1) Thousand tCO 2e  892  915  4,190
Carbon dioxide Thousand tCO 2e  672  854  3,307
Methane Thousand tCO 2e  220  42  865
Nitrous oxide Thousand tCO 2e  1  19  17
Operated direct emissions (Scope 1) by source
Flaring Thousand tCO 2e  129  156  1,180
Venting Thousand tCO 2e  141  17  366
Fuel combustion Thousand tCO 2e  558  738  2,244
Fugitives Thousand tCO 2e  63  5  398 
Operated indirect emissions (Scope 2) Thousand tCO 2e  343  280  9   
Key Water Data by Country
Total water consumption Thousand Bbls  21,720   —  7,340 
Freshwater consumption Thousand Bbls  1,060  —    4,510 
Total water used in production Thousand Bbls  179,700  46,260  231,400 
Total recycled/reused4Thousand Bbls  157,980  46,260  224,070 
101
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportApache’s 2021 Employer
Information Report
EEO-1 Consolidated Report
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY CO=
U=
SECTION C - TEST FOR FILING REQUIREMENT SECTION B - COMPANY IDENTIFICATION
2.a. 1.
SECTION E - ESTABLISHMENT INFORMATION
c.
SECTION D - EMPLOYMENT DATA
NOT-HISPANIC OR LATINO HISPANIC OR
LATINO * * * * * * * * * * * FEMALE * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * MALE * * * * * * * * * * * *
OVERALL
TOTALSTWO
OR
MORE
RACES NATIVEALASKANINDIAN ORAMERICAN
ASIAN
ISLANDERPACIFICORNATIVE
HAWAIIANBLACK OR
AFRICAN
AMERICANWHITETWO
OR
MORE
RACES NATIVEALASKANINDIAN ORAMERICAN
ASIANNATIVE
HAWAIIAN
PACIFICOR
ISLANDERBLACK OR
AFRICAN
AMERICANWHITE FEMALE MALEJOB CATEGORIES
EXECUTIVE/S R OFFICIALS & MGRS
FIRST/MID OFFICIALS & MGRS
PROFESSIONALS
TECHNICIANS
SALES WORKERS
ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT
CRAFT WORKERS
OPERATIVES
LABORERS & HELPERS
SERVICE WORKERS
TOTAL
PREVIOUS REPORT TOTAL
SECTION F - REMARKS5540307
5540307 2021 EMPLOYER INFORMATION REPORT EEO-1
CONSOLIDATED REPORT
APACHE CORPORATION
2000 POST OAK BOULEVARD
SUITE 100
HOUSTON, TX 77056APACHE CORPORATION
2000 POST OAK BOULEVARD
SUITE 100
HOUSTON, TX 77056
EIN= 4107478681- Y  2- Y  3- Y     DUNS= 006961551
NAICS: 211120 - Crude Petroleum Extraction
0
26
44
3
0
4
122
0
0
2
201
2080
9
43
6
0
15
1
0
0
0
74
6522
209
254
12
0
7
196
0
0
2
702
7820
6
14
2
0
5
5
0
0
4
36
370
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
02
11
40
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
55
560
3
1
0
0
0
3
0
0
0
7
90
1
3
0
0
0
2
0
0
0
6
68
41
109
12
0
37
1
0
0
0
208
2150
9
27
2
0
16
1
0
0
0
55
520
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
10
7
34
3
0
1
0
0
0
0
45
440
0
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
30
1
4
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
5
632
324
574
42
0
86
331
0
0
8
1397
1484
DATES OF PAYROLL PERIOD: 12/1/2021 THRU 12/15/2021
SECTION G - CERTIFICATION CERTIFIED DATE [EST]:   5/16/2022 11:51 AM
CERTIFYING OFFICIAL: Mark Smith
EMAIL: marka.smith@apachecorp.com
EEO1 REPORT CONTACT PERSON: Mark Smith
EMAIL: marka.smith@apachecorp.comTITLE: Lead, HR Talent Acquisition
PHONE: 281-302-2358
TITLE: Lead, HR Talent Acquisition
PHONE: 281-302-23581,397
1,484Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
102
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportOne of the World’s 
Most Admired Companies
FORTUNE
Trendsetter in Political 
Disclosure and Accountability
CPA-Zicklin Index of Corporate Political 
Disclosure and AccountabilityESG Accelerator Award
Energy Workforce & Technology Council
2020 Best Safety Results 
(Sam Croft Drillship) 
Noble Services LLCList of America’s Best
Midsize Employers for 2022
Forbes
E&P Explorer of the Year for 2020 
Wood Mackenzie2022 List of America’s
Most Responsible Companies
Newsweek
Awards and Recognitions
We are proud to be recognized by third parties for our sustainability efforts. As illustrated by the list below, recent 
awards acknowledge our responsible operations, transparency in political disclosure and accountability and work 
to be an employer of choice, among other achievements.
2022
2021
Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
103
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
Annell 
BayJohn 
ChristmannJuliet     
EllisCharles 
HooperChansoo
JoungJohn 
Lowe *Lamar 
McKayAmy 
NelsonDaniel 
RabunPeter 
RagaussDavid 
Stover
Knowledge, Skills and Experience  
Public Company CEO Experience    
Public Company CFO Experience 
Executive Senior Leadership       
Financial Reporting       
Risk Management      
Accounting                       
Corporate Governance/Ethics      
Environmental/Regulatory    
Legal  
Global Experience       
Operations                             
Strategic Planning/Oversight     
Mergers and Acquisitions    
Upstream Experience     
Midstream Experience    
Demographic Background
Military Veteran 
Ethnic Minority  
Gender (male/female) F M F M M M M F M M M
Age in Years (as of April 1, 2022) 66 55 63 64 61 63 63 53 67 64 64
Board Tenure (year joined) 2014 2015 2019 2022 2011 2013 2021 2014 2015 2014 2022
Number of Public Company Boards       
including APA3 1 2 1 2 3 2 3 3 2 1This table displays the experience, diversity and tenure of APA Corporation’s (APA) Board of Directors.Board Matrix
*  On July 14, 2022, Board Chair John E. Lowe announced his retirement, to be effective September 1, 2022.Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
104
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportEgypt
SurinameU.S.
U.K. North SeaThis map excludes 
APA operations in 
the Gulf of Mexico.EgyptLibya
TEXASKANSAS
OKLAHOMA
NEW MEXICOARKANSASMISSOURI
LOUISIANAMISSISSIPPICOLORADOILLINOIS
TENNESSEEKENTUCKY
BrazilGuyanaVenezuela
Suriname
French GuianaTrinidad and TobagoBarbados
GrenadaSaint Vincent and the Grenadines
United KingdomNorway
APA OperationsWater Risk Level
Apache Low Low - Medium Medium - High High Extremely HighWater Risk Level
Low Low-Medium Medium-High High Extremely High
 Apache Low Low - Medium Medium - High High Extremely HighWater Risk Level
Apache Low Low - Medium Medium - High High Extremely HighWater Risk Level
Apache Low Low - Medium Medium - High High Extremely HighWater Risk Level
Apache Low Low - Medium Medium - High High Extremely HighWater Risk Level
Apache Low Low - Medium Medium - High High Extremely HighWater Risk LevelWater Scarcity Maps
When appropriate, we utilize various data sources, such as the U.S. Drought Monitor and the World 
Resources Institute’s Aqueduct tool, to confirm our assessment of water-scarce areas within our operations.
The examples shown below are created by applying the water scarcity mapping tools to the geographic 
information system (GIS) layers of APA-operated areas, as of June 30, 2022.Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
105
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportOur Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Analysis
Climate change is an important issue for our company and our stakeholders. We are 
committed to helping address the challenges that climate change presents, while also 
continuing to produce reliable, affordable energy to help meet the world’s needs and drive 
global prosperity. We are therefore focused on reducing emissions from our operations.
Identifying and managing opportunities and risks presented 
by climate change are an important part of our business 
planning and enterprise risk management.
Climate change influences our operations from regulatory, 
lending and investment perspectives. For this reason, the 
highest levels of our leadership team, including senior 
management and the Board of Directors, oversee our 
planning process.
Investor interest in how companies are assessing and 
managing climate change-related risks is growing. This is 
reflected by the creation of the Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) by the Financial 
Stability Board — an international body founded to promote 
reform and supervision of international financial regulations 
— to help organizations provide consistent climate-related 
financial information to stakeholders. For investors in the oil 
and gas industry, concerns include the impact of new 
regulations, changes in energy demand and competition 
from lower-carbon energy sources.
In this year’s Sustainability Report, we continue to increase 
disclosure on how we identify and address climate change-
related risks, and our overall alignment with the TCFD’s 
recommendations to communicate information on climate 
change-related governance, strategy, risk management, and 
metrics and targets (see p. 128 for an index of TCFD-related 
disclosures throughout the report) .
Governance
Our Board of Directors and senior management are directly 
engaged in assessing business strategy, including review of 
how capital is deployed. This process includes managing 
climate change-related risks and opportunities for the 
company. The Board’s Audit Committee oversees the risk 
management process (described in more detail below and 
on p. 14) , which includes management of climate change- 
related business, legal and regulatory risks. The Corporate 
Responsibility, Governance & Nominating Committee 
oversees management and performance on environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) issues, including the content of this report. The Management Development & Compensation 
(MD&C) Committee has also taken steps that link ESG 
performance to compensation for all employees, including 
executives (see below and p. 84) .
In addition to the work of these committees, the full Board 
receives updates on climate change-related topics, including 
our corporate approach to risk management, climate-related 
risks and opportunities, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
management, third-party ESG ratings and overall ESG 
performance. The Board also invites outside experts on ESG 
issues to provide ongoing education on relevant subjects, as 
well as differing perspectives on climate-related risks and 
opportunities.
Our ESG Management Committee, a cross-functional  
team comprised of five corporate officers, is tasked with 
overseeing our climate and emissions strategy, goals and 
performance. Sponsored by the chief financial officer,  
and generally meeting at least twice per month, this team  
is tasked with integrating our ESG priorities across   
the business.
To help drive focus and accountability across the company, 
we are continuing to expand ESG-based performance 
metrics and tying them to incentive compensation for all 
employees — from the executive level to the field. In 2021, 
10% of short-term compensation was linked to nonsafety 
ESG goals, including a goal to eliminate routine flaring in the 
U.S. onshore and to achieve a less than 1% flaring intensity 
rate. We achieved both goals, as well as goals to reduce 
freshwater consumption and to foster a more diverse  
and inclusive culture. For 2022, 20% of short-term 
compensation will be linked to the combined environmental, 
health and safety (EHS) and ESG goals. We also added an 
ESG metric, beginning in 2022, to the performance share 
program in our long-term incentive compensation plan. The 
new ESG metric, set by the MD&C Committee, is measured 
against a list of projects identified to deliver a target 
elimination of 1 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent 
(CO2e) emissions over a three-year performance period.Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
106
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportWe consider ESG matters — including climate change-
related issues — as critical areas in which to identify, track 
and mitigate risk. (Read more on our prioritizing and 
managing ESG initiatives on pp. 19-21.)
Strategy
We are committed to producing energy safely and 
responsibly. Highlights of what this means to us include:
We determined our most important issues through a 
four-step process:
  We work every day to reduce our environmental footprint, 
operate safely and increase the benefits we provide to the 
communities where we live and work.
  A key part of our corporate vision is to be the premier 
exploration and production (E&P) company. That extends 
beyond financial results: It begins and ends with working 
to achieve the best safety and environmental record, year 
after year.
  We are focused on reducing emissions across our 
operations. We have programs for preventing, identifying 
and eliminating methane leaks. In 2021, we eliminated 
routine flaring from our U.S. onshore operations three 
months ahead of schedule.
  We are using clean-burning natural gas and electricity as 
alternatives to diesel to power our field operations where 
practicable, which reduces fuel consumption and 
localized air emissions.
 For 2022, we set goals to reduce upstream flaring in Egypt 
by 40% by year-end, and to deliver projects to support 
our long-term incentive compensation-linked goal to 
eliminate 1 million tonnes of CO 2e emissions throughout 
our worldwide assets by the end of 2024.SCENARIO-PLANNING FRAMEWORK
In 2021, we revised and updated our scenario-planning 
analysis to more closely align with TCFD recommendations, 
and are continuing to refine and expand on that approach in 
2022. For years, scenario planning has been embedded in 
our ongoing business and risk management processes. Our 
analysis includes the input of experts from several internal 
functional areas, for a more rigorous, multidisciplinary 
planning approach.
We consider a range of pricing scenarios when forming our 
long-term investment and development plans. These include 
scenarios in a carbon-constrained future, which reflect the 
potential climate-related risks and opportunities influencing 
fossil fuel supply and demand. However, our expanded 
climate-specific scenario-planning framework goes even 
further, by including market-based third-party forecasts of 
future demand, pricing in energy markets, and assumptions 
based on changes in government regulations and policy.
The TCFD guidance recommends that companies consider 
risks relating to the potential impact of climate change over 
short-, medium- and long-term timeframes. The dynamic 
nature of our business has been clearly demonstrated by the 
commodity price volatility observed in the last 36 months, 
driven by the global pandemic and by geopolitical impacts 
on global markets. We believe that scenario analyses should 
be conducted over medium-term timeframes, since, in our 
view, it is challenging to accurately assess scenario 
outcomes beyond a five-year time horizon, given the number 
and unpredictability of variables. As a result, in our climate-
related risk assessments, we include external predictions of 
demand, carbon pricing and comparison-pricing scenarios, 
which we compare to our base-case pricing analysis that we 
have projected out to 2040, in order to align our analysis 
more closely with climate-scale timeframes. Under each 
future pricing scenario considered, the break-even prices 
referenced in each of APA’s core areas of operations indicate 
the long-term potential for generating positive returns.
2021 World Energy Outlook Scenarios
We include in our analysis the following International Energy 
Agency (IEA) scenarios from the 2021 World Energy 
Outlook (WEO) report, which we compare against our 
internal APA base-case scenario: the Stated Policies 
Scenario (STEPS), Announced Pledges Scenario (APS) and 
the Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS). Under all 
future pricing scenarios considered, the break-even prices 
referenced in each of APA’s core areas of operation indicate 
the long-term potential for positive returns generation.
Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
107
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportStated Policies Scenario (STEPS) reflects all current 
governmental carbon policy settings, assessed sector to 
sector. This scenario has been modified from 2020 to reflect 
the higher fossil fuel demand seen today, and it projects a 
decline in demand after 2030 that is greater than was 
projected in previous versions of this scenario. Under this 
scenario, carbon pricing is applied to company’s U.K. oil 
production only. The 2021 STEPS scenario results in a 
cumulative growth in world oil demand equivalent to 103 
million Bbls of oil per day by 2030, remaining flat through 
2050. In the STEPS scenario, oil prices are shown to fall to 
$77 per IEA Bbl²⁷ in 2030 even with this increasing demand, 
and then, as demand levels off, the oil price rises to $88 per 
IEA Bbl²⁷ in 2050.
Provided below and in contrast to STEPS, both the APS and 
SDS scenarios project lower demand for oil in 2050 
compared to 2020. In these scenarios, the decrease in oil 
demand corresponds to a decrease in oil price.Announced Pledges Scenario (APS) reflects all countries’ 
announced climate commitments being met in full and on 
time, including nationally determined contributions. This 
scenario includes all announced net zero pledges, but still 
reflects gaps from the goals of the 2015 Paris Agreement 
described in the SDS. The APS shows the highest impact of 
carbon pricing among all scenarios, and carbon pricing is 
applied to the company’s U.S. and U.K. production, while 
Egypt production is burdened from 2030 forward. The APS 
scenario represents the mid-case demand scenario, with 
demand increasing through 2030 to pre-pandemic levels, 
close to 96 million Bbls per day, before declining to less than 
77 million Bbls per day in 2050. The APS scenario predicts 
a more subdued price decline to $67 per IEA Bbl²⁷ in 2030, 
and down to $64 per IEA Bbl²⁷ in 2050.
Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS) assumes 
additional policy incentives and targets greater action on 
climate change measures, which are anticipated to limit the 
global rise in temperature to less than 2 oC by 2050. Carbon 
pricing is applied to all oil production, with pricing the same 
for U.S. and U.K. production, while Egypt production is not 
burdened by carbon pricing until 2040. The SDS scenario 
predicts that the 2020 demand level will remain relatively 
flat through 2030, at approximately 88 million Bbls per day, 
before dropping sharply to 47 million Bbls per day by 2050. 
The SDS scenario projects a more rapid decline in oil price, 
to $56 per IEA Bbl²⁷ in 2030, and $50 per IEA Bbl²⁷ in 2050.
In the 2021 WEO analysis, the STEPS, APS and SDS 
scenarios each have different projections for world oil and 
natural gas demand at their target years of 2030 and 2050 
(see graphics on p. 112) .
APA Base-Case Scenario
APA’s own base-case scenario takes a conservative 
approach to future oil pricing, with a 20-year average 
blended oil price closely aligned to the APS and SDS 
scenarios. Our 20-year average oil pricing, discounted for 
anticipated carbon constraints, is $48 per blended (West 
Texas Intermediate [WTI]/Brent) Bbl, with annual realized 
pricing fluctuating between $53 and $44 per blended Bbl. 
We believe our company is well placed in any of the 
previously described scenarios.
APA Base-Case Scenario — Our base-case scenario is an 
assessment of our business perspective utilizing an internal 
oil pricing deck that includes a U.K. emissions trading 
scheme (ETS) carbon price built in, such that our WTI/Brent 
blended pricing accounts for the assumption of a carbon tax 
on U.K. Bbls. To account for the possibility, as in the SDS, 
Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
108
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
of more aggressive climate change measures to limit the 
global rise in temperature to less than 2 oC by 2050, with a 
carbon tax also being applied to U.S. Bbls, our U.S. 
production in this scenario is discounted at the same rate as 
in the SDS scenario.
In our base-case scenario, our crude oil pricing assumption 
is a mixed WTI/Brent blend, starting at $53 per Bbl in 2023, 
escalating to $54 in 2030, and remaining flat at $54 until 
2040. For the estimated U.S. portion of our annual 
production, we discounted the crude price at a rate equal to 
the SDS carbon price for advanced economies. As defined 
by the IEA’s WEO, Egypt is classified as an emerging market 
country with a developing economy; therefore, no carbon 
pricing is assumed for those Bbls.
Resiliency in a Global Market
The focus of our scenario-planning exercises is our 
continued ability to meet demand for fossil fuel products in 
a global market. We actively monitor the demand scenario 
predictions and how they can affect the global supply. We 
evaluate demand on a medium-term basis, to avoid 
overreacting to short-term cycles or commodity price 
fluctuations that are influenced by unpredictable disruptions 
to market trends, as occurred early in the pandemic.
Our international portfolio of assets allows us to proactively 
manage our production mix to mitigate exposure to WTI/
Brent crude pricing disparity and to the risk associated with 
carbon pricing for production in economically developed 
regions. Our portfolio consists of a diversified, global 
resource base, not a pure-play, single-region asset. We 
currently have active development onshore in the U.S. and 
Egypt, and offshore in the U.K. North Sea. This multibasin 
asset portfolio enables us to shift capital investment to or 
from certain assets in response to changes in geographic 
commodity prices, local regulations, energy demand, 
supply-side issues or other market factors. Coupled with our 
experience as a cost-conscious producer and resource-
efficient operator, we believe this approach reduces our 
carbon risk and helps the company optimize capital in 
response to the market’s price signals and energy needs.The resiliency of our approach can be seen in the results   
of our asset scenario-planning assessment, which compares 
projected break-even prices for our operating basins from 
third-party assessors (Wood Mackenzie and Enverus) to   
the average realized WTI/Brent blend equivalent pricing   
for 2021-2040, from each of the four planning scenarios 
discussed above. Even in the two scenarios burdened by  
a weighted-average carbon price for our U.S. production, 
the third-party break-even price is at a minimum $8 per Bbl 
less than those scenario prices. Again, our scenario-
planning analysis positively supports that the break-even 
prices referenced in each of APA’s core areas of operation 
indicates the long-term potential for generating  
positive returns.
The following tables provide a summary of the key climate-
related risks and opportunities we have identified and are 
working to address now and into the future.
WTI/ Brent Blend Equivalent
Break-Even Price $/Bbl (2020)
$0$10$20$30$40$50$60$70$80
Our Base-Case Avg. 
2020-2040 
Applicable Carbon Pricing
IEA Announced Pledges 
Scenario (APS) Avg. 
2020-2040IEA Stated Policies Scenario (STEPS) Avg. 2020-2040
IEA Sustainable 
Development Scenario 
(SDS) Avg. 2020-2040
Applicable Carbon Pricing$48 $49
$48$77
Egypt$26*
APA Permian$38.50*
North Sea$40*ASSET SCENARIO-PLANNING ASSESSMENT
*  Break-even pricing is from 2021 Wood Mackenzie reports for Apache’s 
Egypt fields. The U.K. North Sea sector includes the break-even Final 
Investment Decision (FID) Tracker Shell U.K. Central North Sea. 
 The APA Permian break-even pricing is the average of Apache Tier 1 and 
Tier 2 break-even from the 2021 Enverus Operator Leaderboard Report EIA 
Permian WTI.Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
109
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
Climate-related Transition Risks
Type Risks Potential Impacts and ResponsesPolicy and LegalChanges in Regulation
 U.S. policy on carbon taxes or cap and trade
 Federal permit ban
 State-based emissions regulations
 Alignment with Paris Agreement Changes in asset base
 Decreased asset diversification
 Increased use of technology, including electrification and 
enhanced oil recovery (EOR)
Changes in National Policies
 Biden Administration’s Climate Pledge
 U.K. Carbon Budget
 National hydraulic fracturing bans
 National water policies on freshwater usage limits Shift in operational areas
 Enhanced water recovery and reuse
 Increased community engagement and reporting
 Stranded assets
Changes in Tax Programs
 Elimination of exploration tax incentives for oil and gas
 Increased alternative energy tax incentives Capital planning changes
 Support for growth in emerging markets and economies
 Increased costs of complianceTechnology and MarketEquipment and Technology
 Costs of installing lower-emission production and 
transportation technology
 Alternative fuel density technologies that ease the transition 
from fossil fuels to alternatives
 Disruptive technologies in energy generation and/or 
transportation More efficient energy use, leading to a decrease in demand
 Failure to keep up with technology advancementsReputationStigma of Fossil Fuels 
 Stakeholder withdrawal of investment due to ESG-related 
concerns
 Climate change litigation and publicity
 Loss of supply chain due to market and energy transition  Increased availability of green/ESG-linked lending
 Increased dependence on midstream companies
 Decreased company appeal to emerging workforce talent
Climate-related Physical Risks
Type Risks Potential ImpactsAcuteOnshore
 Severe temperature changes (e.g., 2021 Winter Storm Uri)
 Seasonal droughts
 Tornados or other severe storms 
Offshore
 Hurricanes and tropical storms Enhanced requirements for asset hardening
 Increased focus on emergency contingency planning                      
and preparation
 Increased cooperation and integration with community partners
 Damage to assets and communities
 Changes in population distribution and settlement patterns
 Shrinking of local economies
 Decreased access to local talentChronicOnshore
 Changes in rainfall or weather patterns
 Extended droughts and temperature changes
 Changes in water availability patterns (surface water              
and groundwater)
 Biodiversity and species listings
Offshore
 Rising sea levels
 Sea temperature change and current-related changes  Damage to equipment or impaired access to offshore platforms
 Increased costs related to additional operational expenses and 
insurance premiums for offshore or nearshore operations
 Operational disruptions due to supply chain or impairment of   
crew change operations during weather eventsIntroduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
110
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportClimate-related Opportunities
Type Risks Potential Impacts and ResponsesResource Efficiency Transportation fuel-related improvements                                  
(in miles-per-gallon ratings)
 Improved resource capture due to reduced GHG emissions
 Increased recovery of hydrocarbons from the reservoir Additional product delivered to market
 Project economies that increase the potential to expand 
operations
 Decreased emissions within company vehicle fleet and   
operations equipmentEnergy Source Increased demand for natural gas for power generation
 Development of economic demand for hydrogen and 
hydrogen-based technologies
 Utilization of field gas-generated power for drilling and 
completion equipment
 Portable power not connected to the grid  Collaboration with midstream and downstream companies
 Increased expectations for enhanced reliability
 Decreased emissions from operationsProducts and Services  Development of new markets for refined products offsetting 
reduction of transportation fuel demand
 Premium pricing for delivery of certified, responsibly extracted 
resources 
 Development of commercial carbon capture utilization and 
storage (CCUS) market in aging oil fields around the world Focus on green label products and enhanced ESG certification
 Conversion and retrofitting of assets to capture CO 2
 Extended life of assetsMarkets Expanding fossil fuel markets in developing economies 
throughout the world
 Development of hydrogen and CCUS markets 
 Access to green bonds and capital to expand ESG efforts 
related to hydrogen, CCUS and water recycling
 Identification of changing regulatory environments to 
understand market development Emergence of exportation assets 
 Increased focus on reliability and output
 Identification of ESG key performance indicators and projects tied 
to green lending
 Partnerships to reduce societal GHG emissionsResilience Transition of current EOR and water disposal practices to 
CCUS for industrial segments
 Hydrogen from natural gas
 Expansion of local supply chains in developing countries to 
ensure the necessary tools to maintain operations
 Development of localized staff to ensure employee attraction 
and maintain the workforce Increased demand across operations footprint
 Support to local policy makers for advancing technologies
 Changes in recruiting, retention and workforce development
 Increased spend and development in local communities
Risk Management
Scenario analyses are integrated into our risk management 
processes for asset planning and capital investment, and are 
reviewed by senior managers and executives. The final 
analyses are presented to the CGR&N Committee for review 
prior to publication.
We also have a risk management function within our EHS 
group focused on health, safety, environmental and security risks — including climate change-related risks. These formal 
risk management teams work with personnel in other 
departments to identify, understand and mitigate risks 
across our operations. Employees at all levels of the 
company representing multiple disciplines participate in 
analyzing the potential impacts of climate change-related 
risks on our business, supporting a comprehensive 
approach to risk management.Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
111
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportMANAGING CLIMATE CHANGE-RELATED  
OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS
We strive for continuous improvement in our operational 
processes to further lower costs, reduce our environmental 
footprint and optimize capitalization of natural gas in a 
lower-carbon energy future, including by:
 Our commitment to reducing greenhouse gas emissions 
(see p. 21) .
 Employing leak detection and repair programs, using the 
latest equipment and technologies, to reduce methane 
losses (see pp. 24-27) . 
 Addressing GHG emissions from our operations through 
the elimination of routine flaring, and our commitment to 
power our equipment with electricity, where practicable 
(see p. 26) .
 Working to address the potential physical impacts to our 
operations posed by climate change. For example, to 
mitigate the risk of reduced freshwater supplies critical to 
our operations, we are continuing efforts to optimize 
water recycling, especially in water-scarce areas            
(see pp. 30-32) .
 Collaborating with industry, governmental and 
nongovernmental partners to encourage others in our 
industry to reduce emissions and to develop more 
effective technologies to do so, including: 
 As a founding member of the ONE Future Coalition, 
working with a group of more than 40 companies 
across the natural gas value chain that is focused on 
reducing methane emissions.
 As a member of the American Petroleum Institute’s 
(API) The Environmental Partnership, working 
together with a group of U.S. oil and gas companies 
to address environmental challenges and further 
improve environmental performance in our industry. 
(See p. 27 for more information on these 
partnerships.)
 As a member of the American Exploration and 
Production Council (AXPC), working together with 
other operators to develop collaborative solutions to 
reduce GHG emissions while “meeting the world’s 
growing need for abundant, low cost, reliable 
energy.” (See p. 113 for our 2021 data as submitted 
to the AXPC.)Metrics and Targets
We use a wide range of metrics and targets to assess and 
drive our performance in managing climate change-related 
risks, in particular our ability to reduce operational GHG and 
methane emissions.
We measure our progress in reducing GHG and methane 
emissions based on intensity metrics (emissions per unit of 
production), because intensity metrics provide a more 
comparable year-over-year measure of our performance that 
is not skewed by changes in activity levels, acquisitions and 
divestitures, and other factors. However, we do focus on 
absolute emissions reductions when we evaluate the 
implementation of a particular project and how that project 
influences future emissions-related operational decisions. 
We measure and report our GHG emissions as total CO 2 
equivalents and by primary gas type, including CO 2, 
methane and nitrous oxide (see pp. 28-29 and 98 for GHG 
and methane emissions performance data) .
To drive performance improvements, we adopted an 
upstream flaring reduction target in Egypt of 40% in 2022, 
and also set a goal, tied to long-term incentive 
compensation, of identifying and implementing 1 million 
tonnes of CO 2e elimination projects by year-end 2024. In 
2019, through the API’s The Environmental Partnership, we 
made three additional commitments toward reducing our 
methane emissions: implementing a leak detection program 
at all relevant sites by year-end 2024; replacing high-bleed 
pneumatic controllers with low- or zero-emitting devices by 
year-end 2024; and implementing a monitoring and 
emissions reduction program for liquids unloading, also by 
year-end 2024. Progress on all of these commitments can 
be found on p. 27.In 2023, we will publish 
greenhouse gas intensity targets. ”“Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
112
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report2022 IEA World Oil Demand IEA World Natural Gas Demand
0 020 1,00040 2,00060 3,000Oil Demand (mb/d)
Natural Gas Demand (bcm)100120
5,0006,000
80 4,000
2030
2020 2030 2040CO2 Emissions (Mt)
05,000
10,000
15,000
20,000
25,000
30,000
35,000
40,000
Total World CO2 Emissions (Mt)
STEPS APS SDS
2021 STEPS 2021 STEPS 2021 APS 2021 APS 2021 SDS 2021 SDS2020 2030 2050 2020 2050Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
113
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report
AXPC ESG Metrics Template
To provide investors and the public with transparency and consistency in the reporting of key upstream ESG indicators, 
AXPC launched the AXPC ESG Metrics Framework and Template in February 2021. These are available for use on a 
voluntary basis in sustainability reporting beginning in 2021.
AXPC’s ESG Metrics Framework and Template are centered on five key metrics groupings that AXPC members believe 
are essential to capture in promoting more consistent reporting across member companies — Greenhouse Gas (GHG) 
Emissions, Flaring, Spills, Water Use and Safety.
Reporting Company: Apache Corporation
Reporting Period: 2021
   2021 *
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Methane Intensity  
Methane Emissions (Metric tons CH 4)/Gross annual production —  Climate (Mboe)   0.11
Percent of Methane Emissions Attributed to Boosting and Gathering Segment 71.80%
GHG Intensity  
GHG Emissions (Metric tons CO 2e)/Gross annual production —  Climate (Mboe)10.67
Percent of GHG Emissions Attributed to Boosting and Gathering Segment 78.59%
Flaring
Percentage of Gas Flared per Mcf of Gas Produced  
Gross Annual Volume of Flared Gas (Mcf)/Gross Annual Gas Production (Mcf)0.30%
Volume of Gas Flared per Bbl of Oil Equivalent Produced  
Gross Annual Volume of Flared Gas (Mcf)/Gross Annual Production (Boe)0.01
Spills
Spill Intensity  
Produced Liquids Spilled (Bbl)/Total Produced Liquids (Mbbl) 0.060
Water Use
Fresh Water Intensity  
Fresh Water Consumed (Bbl)/Gross Annual Production (Boe)0.01
Water Recycling Rate  
Recycled Water (Bbl)/Total Water Consumed (Bbl)88%
Does your company use WRI Aqueduct, GEMI, Water Risk Filter, Water Risk Monetizer or other comparable tool            
or methodology to determine the water-stressed areas in your portfolio? Yes
Safety
Employee TRIR  
# of Employee OSHA Recordable Cases x 200,000 / Annual Employee Workhours 0.16
Contractor TRIR  
# of Contractor OSHA Recordable Cases x 200,000 / Annual Contractor Workhours  0.89
Combined TRIR  
# of Combined OSHA Recordable Cases x 200,000 / Annual Combined Workhours0.62
* These metrics represent U.S. operations only, as prescribed and agreed upon by AXPC members.Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
114
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability Report   Disc. # Disclosure Title Location in Report/Response/Omission
GENERAL DISCLOSURES
GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021
2-1 Organizational details Introduction — About APA Corporation (APA), p. 03
Introduction — Our Operations, p. 04
2021 Form 10-K , p. 1
2-2 Entities included in the organization’s 
sustainability reporting2021 Form 10-K , pp. 1-7, 11-12
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact 
pointReporting period: Calendar 2022
Frequency: Annual
Contact: Rajesh Sharma, Corporate Secretary, APA Corporation, 2000 Post Oak Blvd., Suite 
100, Houston, TX 77056-4400
2-4 Restatements of information Information about any restatements is provided in the footnotes to the relevant data.
2-5 External assurance Governance — Assuring Report Content, p. 95
2-6 Activities, value chain and other  
business relationshipsIntroduction — About APA Corporation (APA), p. 03
Introduction — Our Operations, p. 04
2021 Form 10-K , pp. 1, 2-8, 12, 36-38, F-21
2-7 Employees Key Performance Data — Our People, p. 99
2-8 Workers who are not employees Health and Safety — Contractor Management, p. 63
Key Performance Data — Health and Safety, p. 98
2-9 Governance structure and composition ESG Overview, pp. 14-22
Governance — Governance, pp. 85-89
2022 Proxy Statement , pp. 16-17, 28
Corporate Governance Principles
2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest  
governance body2022 Proxy Statement , pp. 9, 12-13
Corporate Governance Principles , p. 03
Corporate Responsibility, Governance, and Nominating Committee Charter
2-11 Chair of the highest governance body Governance — Corporate Governance and Compensation Practices, p. 84
2-12 Role of the highest governance body in  
overseeing the management of impactsESG Overview, pp. 14-22
Health and Safety — Crisis and Emergency Risk Management, pp. 65-66
Community — Our Approach to Social Investing and Community Engagement, pp. 68-75
Community — Understanding and Addressing Stakeholder Concerns, pp. 78-79
Governance — Corporate Governance and Compensation Practices, p. 84
Governance — Governance, pp. 85-89
Governance — Engagement, pp. 90-91
Governance — About This Report, pp. 93-95
2022 Proxy Statement , pp. 11-12, 53
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
Corporate Governance Principles
Corporate Responsibility, Governance, and Nominating Committee Charter
                                                        
                                                        GRI Content IndexReporting Standards 
and Frameworks
This report was prepared using the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards and is in accordance 
with the GRI Standards (2018) at the core level. We are in the process of transitioning to the updated GRI Universal Standards 
(2021) and have included the indicators from the General Disclosures (2021) and Material Topics (2021) in this index. We also 
include indicators from Ipieca’s Sustainability Reporting Guidance for the Oil and Gas Industry, the Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board’s Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Sustainability Accounting Standard, recommendations of the Task 
Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures, and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportIntroduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
115
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportGRI Content Index (Continued)
   Disc. # Disclosure Title Location in Report/Response/Omission
2-13  Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts ESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) Oversight, pp. 14-17
Governance — Corporate Governance and Compensation 
Practices, p. 84
Governance — Governance, pp. 85-89
Corporate Responsibility, Governance, and Nominating 
Committee Charter
Sustainability issues, including health, safety, security, 
environment, community affairs and human resources, are 
overseen by the vice president of Environment, Health and 
Safety, senior vice president of Administration, and vice 
president of Corporate Communications and Public Affairs.
2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability reporting Corporate Responsibility, Governance, and Nominating 
Committee Charter
The Board of Directors’ Corporate Responsibility, 
Governance & Nominating Committee oversees discussion 
of the most important sustainability topics covered in this 
report. The report is reviewed and approved by select 
members of our executive team, as well as our Internal 
Audit function (described on p. 86).
2-15 Conflicts of interest 2022 Proxy Statement , p. 54 
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
2-16 Communication of critical concerns Governance — Compliance, pp. 86-87
2022 Proxy Statement , p. 10
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body ESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) Oversight, pp. 14-17
Governance — Corporate Governance and Compensation 
Practices, p. 84
Appendix — Board Matrix, p. 103
Corporate Governance Principles , pp. 1-2
2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body Corporate Governance Principles , p. 04
2-19 Remuneration policies 2022 Proxy Statement , pp. 25-44
2-20 Process to determine remuneration 2022 Proxy Statement , pp. 25-52
2-21 Annual total compensation ratio 2022 Proxy Statement , p. 53
2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy Introduction — Letter from the CEO, pp. 06-07
2-23 Policy commitments Introduction, p. 02
ESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) Oversight, pp. 14-17
Health and Safety — Emergency Preparedness  
Resilience, p. 65
Governance — Governance, pp. 85-89
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
FCPA and Anti-Corruption Compliance Guide
2-24 Embedding policy commitments Introduction, p. 02
ESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) Oversight, pp. 14-17
Health and Safety — Emergency Preparedness  
Resilience, p. 65
Governance — Governance, p. 85-89
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
FCPA and Anti-Corruption Compliance Guide
2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts Community — Addressing Community Concerns, p. 79
Governance — Compliance, pp. 86-87
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns Governance — Governance, pp. 85-89
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations 2021 Form 10-K , pp. F-36, F-37, F-38
We report all material legal matters and fines in our annual 
Form 10-K.Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
116
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportGRI Content Index (Continued)
   Disc. # Disclosure Title GRI Sector Standard Location in Report/Response/Omission
2-28 Membership associations ESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) 
Oversight, pp. 14-17
Health and Safety — Industry Collaborations and Partnerships, p. 66
Governance — Public Policy and Political Disclosures, pp. 88-89
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement ESG Overview — ESG Engagement, p. 16
Community — Understanding and Addressing Stakeholder 
Concerns, pp. 78-79
Governance — Engagement, pp. 90-91
2-30 Collective bargaining agreements 2022 Proxy Statement , p. 22
MATERIAL TOPICS
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
3-1 Process to determine material topics Governance — About This Report, pp. 93-95
3-2 List of material topics Material topics: Indirect Economic Impacts, Procurement  
Practices, Energy, Water and Effluents, Emissions, Environmental 
Compliance, Occupational Health and Safety, Local Communities, 
and Public Policy.
There have been no significant changes from previous reporting 
periods to the list of material topics and topic Boundaries.
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016
103-2 The management approach and its components 2021 Form 10-K , pp. 36-53
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Governance — Governance, pp. 85-89
GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016
201-1 Direct economic value generated and 
distributed11.14.2
11.21.2Introduction — Our Operations, p. 04
Key Performance Data — Financial and Production Highlights, p. 99
2021 Form 10-K , pp. F-6, F-54, F-55
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and 
opportunities due to climate change11.2.2 ESG Overview — Our Approach to Climate Scenario Analysis, p. 22
Governance — About This Report, p. 93-95
Appendix — Our TCFD Analysis, pp. 105-112
2021 Form 10-K , pp. 29-30
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other      
retirement plans2021 Form 10-K , pp. F-7, F-10, F-42, F-43
INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 
Boundary11.14.1 Global Progress — Charting a Sustainable Course, pp. 8-13
Community — Our Approach to Social Investing and Community 
Engagement, pp. 68-75
Community — Local Economic Impact, pp. 76-77
Governance — About This Report, pp. 93-95
Issue boundary — inside and outside the organization
103-2 The management approach and its components Global Progress — Charting a Sustainable Course, pp. 8-13
ESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) 
Oversight, pp. 14-17 
ESG Overview — Our Approach to ESG Matters, pp. 18-19
Community — Our Approach to Social Investing and Community 
Engagement, pp. 68-75
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Global Progress — Charting a Sustainable Course, pp. 8-13
ESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) 
Oversight, pp. 14-17 
ESG Overview — Our Approach to ESG Matters, pp. 18-19 
Community — Our Approach to Social Investing and Community 
Engagement, pp. 68-75
Governance — Internal Audit, pp. 86Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
117
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportGRI Content Index (Continued)
   Disc. # Disclosure Title GRI Sector Standard Location in Report/Response/Omission
GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 11.14.4 Global Progress — Charting a Sustainable Course, pp. 08-13
ESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) Oversight, pp. 14-17 
ESG Overview — Our Approach to ESG Matters, pp. 18-19
Community — Our Approach to Social Investing and 
Community Engagement, pp. 68-75
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 11.14.5 Global Progress — Charting a Sustainable Course, pp. 08-13
ESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) Oversight, pp. 14-17 
ESG Overview — Our Approach to ESG Matters, pp. 18-19 
Community — Our Approach to Social Investing and 
Community Engagement, pp. 68-75 
PROCUREMENT PRACTICES
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 11.14.1 ESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) Oversight, pp. 14-17
Health and Safety — Contractor Management, p. 63
Community — Supplier Diversity, p. 77
Community — Human Rights, pp. 81-82
Governance — About This Report, pp. 93-95
Issue boundary — inside and outside the organization
103-2 The management approach and its components ESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) Oversight, pp. 14-17
Community — Local Economic Impact, pp. 76-77
Community — Supplier Diversity, p. 77
Governance — Corporate Governance and Compensation 
Practices, p. 84
Governance — Governance, pp. 85-89
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Community — Supplier Diversity, p. 77
Governance — Governance, pp. 85-89
GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016
204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 11.14.6 Community — Local Economic Impact, pp. 76-77
Community — Supplier Diversity, p. 77
Key Performance Data — Economic Contributions, p. 99
ANTI-CORRUPTION
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016
103-2 The management approach and its components 11.14.1 ESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) Oversight, pp. 14-17
Governance — Governance, pp. 85-89
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics  
FCPA and Anti-Corruption Compliance Guide
Supplier Code of Conduct
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach ESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) Oversight, pp. 14-17
Governance — Governance, pp. 85-89
GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption 
policies and procedures11.20.3 Governance — Ethics and Anti-Corruption, pp. 87-88
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
FCPA and Anti-Corruption Compliance Guide
Supplier Code of ConductIntroduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
118
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportGRI Content Index (Continued)
   Disc. # Disclosure Title GRI Sector Standard Location in Report/Response/Omission
ENERGY
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 11.1.1 Environment — Air, pp. 24-27
Governance — About This Report, pp. 93-95
Issue boundary — inside and outside the organization
103-2 The management approach and its components 11.1.1 ESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) Oversight, pp. 14-17
ESG Overview — Our Approach to ESG Matters, pp. 18-19
Environment — Air, pp. 24-27
Governance — Corporate Governance and Compensation 
Practices, p. 84
Governance — Governance, pp. 85-89
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach ESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) Oversight, pp. 14-17
ESG Overview — Our Approach to ESG Matters, pp. 18-19
Governance — Corporate Governance and Compensation 
Practices, p. 84
Governance — Governance, pp. 85-89
GRI 302: Energy 2016
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 11.1.2 ESG Overview — ESG Pillars and Performance, pp. 18-19
Environment — Air — Emissions, pp. 24-26
Key Performance Data — Global Energy Use, p. 98
WATER AND EFFLUENTS
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 11.6.1 Environment — Water, pp. 30-33
Governance — About This Report, pp. 93-95
Issue boundary — inside and outside the organization
103-2 The management approach and its components ESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) Oversight, pp. 14-17
Environment — Water — Safeguarding Water Quality, p. 32
Governance — Corporate Governance and Compensation 
Practices, p. 84
Governance — Governance, pp. 85-89
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach ESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) Oversight, pp. 14-17
Environment — Water — Water Management, pp. 30-31
GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 11.6.2 Environment — Water — Water Management, pp. 30-31
303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts 11.6.3 Environment — Water — Safeguarding Water Quality, p. 32
303-3 Water withdrawal 11.6.4 ESG Overview — ESG Pillars and Performance, pp. 18-19
Environment — Water — Safeguarding Water Quality, p. 32
Key Performance Data — Global Water Use by Source, 
Global Water Metrics, U.S. Hydraulic Fracturing          
Water Use, p. 98
303-4 Water discharge 11.6.5 ESG Overview — ESG Pillars and Performance, pp. 18-19
Environment — Water — Safeguarding Water Quality, p. 32   
Key Performance Data — Global Water Use by Source, 
Global Water Metrics, U.S. Hydraulic Fracturing         
Water Use, p. 98
303-5 Water consumption 11.6.6 ESG Overview — ESG Pillars and Performance, pp. 18-19
Environment — Water — Safeguarding Water Quality, p. 32
Key Performance Data — Global Water Use by Source, 
Global Water Metrics, U.S. Hydraulic Fracturing         
Water Use, p. 98
GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016
306-3 Significant spills 11.8.2 Environment — Spill Mitigation, p. 34
Environment — Offshore Spill Preparedness, p. 35
Key Performance Data — Spills, p. 98Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
119
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportGRI Content Index (Continued)
   Disc. # Disclosure Title GRI Sector Standard Location in Report/Response/Omission
BIODIVERSITY
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016
103-2 The management approach and its components Environment — Biodiversity, pp. 37-40
Governance — About This Report, pp. 93-95
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach ESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) Oversight, pp. 14-17
ESG Overview — Our Approach to ESG Matters, pp. 18-19
Governance — Corporate Governance and Compensation 
Practices, p. 84
Governance — Governance, pp. 85-89
GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016
304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products and services 
on biodiversity11.4.3 Environment — Biodiversity, pp. 37-40
304-3 Habitats protected or restored 11.4.4 Environment — Biodiversity, pp. 37-40
EMISSIONS
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 11.1.1
11.2.1
11.3.1Environment — Air, pp. 24-27
Governance — About This Report, pp. 93-95
Issue boundary — inside and outside the organization
103-2 The management approach and its components ESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) Oversight, pp. 14-17
ESG Overview — Our Approach to ESG Matters, pp. 18-19
Environment — Air, pp. 24-27
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach ESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) Oversight, pp. 14-17
ESG Overview — Our Approach to ESG Matters, pp. 18-19
Environment — Air, pp. 24-27
Governance — Corporate Governance and Compensation 
Practices, p. 84
Governance — Governance, pp. 85-89
GRI 305: Emissions 2016
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 11.1.5 ESG Overview — ESG Pillars and Performance, pp. 18-19
Environment — Air - Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
Performance and Goals, pp. 28-29
Key Performance Data — Global Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions, p. 98
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 11.1.6 ESG Overview — ESG Pillars and Performance, pp. 18-19
Environment — Air — Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
Performance and Goals, pp. 28-29
Key Performance Data — Global Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions, p. 98
305-4 GHG emissions intensity 11.1.8 ESG Overview — ESG Pillars and Performance, pp. 18-19
Environment — Air — Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
Performance and Goals, pp. 28-29
Key Performance Data — Global Emissions Intensities, p. 98
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 11.2.3 ESG Overview — ESG Pillars and Performance, pp. 18-19
Environment — Air — Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
Performance and Goals, pp. 28-29
Key Performance Data — Global Emissions Intensities, p. 98
WASTE
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 11.5.1
11.8.1Environment — Waste Management, p. 42
Governance — About This Report, pp. 93-95
103-2 The management approach and its components ESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) Oversight, pp. 14-17
ESG Overview — Our Approach to ESG Matters, pp. 18-19
Environment — Waste Management, p. 42
Governance — Corporate Governance and Compensation 
Practices, p. 84
Governance — Governance, pp. 85-89Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
120
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportGRI Content Index (Continued)
   Disc. # Disclosure Title GRI Sector Standard Location in Report/Response/Omission
GRI 306: Waste 2020
306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts 11.5.2 Environment — Waste Management, p. 42
306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts 11.5.3 Environment — Waste Management, p. 42
306-3 Waste generated 11.5.4 Environment — Waste Management, p. 42
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal 11.5.5 Environment — Waste Management, p. 42
306-5 Waste directed to disposal 11.5.6 Environment — Waste Management, p. 42
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Environment — Air, pp. 24-27
Environment — Water, pp. 30-33
Environment — Biodiversity, pp. 37-40
Environment — Waste Management, p. 42
Governance — About This Report, pp. 93-95
Issue boundary — inside and outside the organization
103-2 The management approach and its components ESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) Oversight, pp. 14-17
ESG Overview — Our Approach to ESG Matters, pp. 18-19
Governance — Corporate Governance and Compensation 
Practices, p. 84
Governance — Governance, pp. 85-89
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach ESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) Oversight, pp. 14-17
ESG Overview — Our Approach to ESG Matters, pp. 18-19
Governance — Corporate Governance and Compensation 
Practices, p. 84
Governance — Governance, pp. 85-89
GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016
307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws                   
and regulations11.6.2 2021 Form 10-K , pp. F-36, F-37, F-38
We report all material legal matters and fines in our 
annual Form 10-K.
SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016
103-2 The management approach and its components ESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) Oversight, pp. 14-17
Health and Safety — Contractor Management, p. 63
Community — Local Economic Impact, pp. 76-77
Community — Supplier Diversity, p. 77
Governance — Corporate Governance and Compensation 
Practices, p. 84
Governance — Governance, pp. 85-89
Governance — Governance Documents, p. 92
Supplier Code of Conduct
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach ESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) Oversight, pp. 14-17
Health and Safety — Contractor Management, p. 63
Community — Local Economic Impact, pp. 76-77
Community — Supplier Diversity, p. 77
Governance — Corporate Governance and Compensation 
Practices, p. 84
Governance — Governance, pp. 85-89
Governance — Governance Documents, p. 92
Supplier Code of Conduct
GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using   
environmental criteriaHealth and Safety — Contractor Management, p. 63 
Community — Supplier Diversity, p. 77 
Supplier Code of Conduct
All field-based contractors are screened on 
environmental criteria.Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
121
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportGRI Content Index (Continued)
   Disc. # Disclosure Title GRI Sector Standard Location in Report/Response/Omission
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 11.8.1  
11.9.1ESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) Oversight, pp. 14-17
ESG Overview — Our Approach to ESG Matters, pp. 18-19
Health and Safety, pp. 55-66
Governance — About This Report, pp. 93-95
Issue boundary — inside and outside the organization
103-2 The management approach and its components ESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) Oversight, pp. 14-17
Health and Safety, pp. 55-66
Community — Local Economic Impact, pp. 76-77
Governance — Corporate Governance and 
Compensation Practices, p. 84
Governance — Governance, pp. 85-89
Governance — Governance Documents, p. 92
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Health and Safety, pp. 55-66
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 11.9.2 Health and Safety, pp. 55-66
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident 
investigation11.9.3 Health and Safety, pp. 55-66
403-3 Occupational health services 11.9.4 Health and Safety, pp. 55-66
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication 
on occupational health and safety11.9.5 Health and Safety, pp. 55-66
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 11.9.6 Health and Safety — Our Safety Philosophy, pp. 58-62
403-6 Occupational health and safety management system 11.9.7 Our People — Recruitment, Development and    
Engagement, pp. 51-54
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and 
safety impacts directly linked by business relationships11.9.8 Health and Safety, pp. 55-66
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety 
management system11.9.9 Health and Safety, pp. 55-66
403-9 Work-related injuries 11.9.10 Health and Safety — 2021 Key Safety Metrics and 
Achievements, pp. 56-57
Key Performance Data — Health and Safety, p. 98
TRAINING AND EDUCATION
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016
103-2 The management approach and its components ESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) Oversight, pp. 14-17
ESG Overview — Our Approach to ESG Matters, pp. 18-19
Our People — Recruitment, Development and      
Engagement, pp. 51-54
Governance — Corporate Governance and 
Compensation Practices, p. 84
Governance — Governance, pp. 85-89
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach ESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance 
(ESG) Oversight, pp. 14-17
ESG Overview — Our Approach to ESG Matters, pp. 18-19
Our People — Recruitment, Development and    
Engagement, pp. 51-54
Governance — Corporate Governance and Compensation 
Practices, p. 84
Governance — Governance, pp. 85-89Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
122
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportGRI Content Index (Continued)
   Disc. # Disclosure Title GRI Sector Standard Location in Report/Response/Omission
GRI 404: Training and Education 2016
404-1 404-1 Average hours of training per 
year per employee11.10.6  
11.11.4Our People — Recruitment, Development and Engagement, pp. 51-54
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills 
and transition assistance programs11.7.3  
11.10.7Our People — Recruitment, Development and Engagement, pp. 51-54
DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016
103-2 The management approach  
and its componentsESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Oversight, pp. 14-17
ESG Overview — Our Approach to ESG Matters, pp. 18-19
Our People — Diversity and Inclusion, pp. 44-47
Our People — Hiring Locally, p. 50
Our People — Recruitment, Development and Engagement, pp. 51-54
Governance — Corporate Governance and Compensation Practices, p. 84
Governance — Governance, pp. 85-89
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our People — Diversity and Inclusion, pp. 44-47
Our People — Hiring Locally, p. 50
Our People — Recruitment, Development and Engagement, pp. 51-54
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies  
and employees11.11.5 Our People — Diversity and Inclusion, pp. 44-47
Governance — Governance, pp. 85-89
Key Performance Data — Our People, Global Gender Mix, Global Age Breakdown, 
U.S. Ethnicity Mix, U.S. Ethnicity Mix of Leadership, p. 99
Appendix — 2021 EEO-1 Consolidated Report, p. 101
Appendix — Board Matrix, p. 103
RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLES
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016
103-2 The management approach and its 
componentsESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Oversight, pp. 14-17
Community — Respecting Indigenous Peoples, p. 82
Governance — Governance, pp. 85-89
Indigenous Peoples Principles
Human Rights Principles
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach ESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Oversight, pp. 14-17
Community — Respecting Indigenous Peoples, p. 82
Governance — Governance, pp. 85-89
HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016
103-2 The management approach  
 and its componentsESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Oversight, pp. 14-17
Community — Human Rights, pp. 81-82
Governance — Governance, pp. 85-89
Indigenous Peoples Principles
Human Rights Principles
Supplier Code of Conduct
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach ESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Oversight, pp. 14-17
Community — Human Rights, pp. 81-82
Governance — Governance, pp. 85-89Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
123
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportGRI Content Index (Continued)
   Disc. # Disclosure Title GRI Sector Standard Location in Report/Response/Omission
LOCAL COMMUNITIES
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 
its Boundary11.15.1 Community, pp. 67-82
Governance — About This Report, pp. 93-95
Issue boundary — inside and outside the organization
103-2 The management approach and its 
componentsESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Oversight, pp. 14-17
Community, pp. 67-82
Governance — Corporate Governance and Compensation Practices, p. 84
Governance — Governance, pp. 85-89
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approachCommunity, pp. 67-82
GRI 413: Local Communities 2016
413-1 Operations with local community 
engagement, impact assessments, 
and development programs11.15.2 Community, pp. 67-82
413-2 Operations with significant actual  
and potential negative impacts on 
local communities11.15.3 Community — Understanding and Addressing Stakeholder Concerns, pp. 78-79
SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016
103-2 The management approach  
and its componentsESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Oversight, pp. 14-17
Health and Safety — Contractor Management, p. 63
Community — Local Economic Impact, pp. 76-77
Community — Supplier Diversity, p. 77
Governance — Corporate Governance and Compensation Practices, p. 84
Governance — Governance, pp. 85-89
Governance — Governance Documents, p. 92
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approachESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Oversight, pp. 14-17
Health and Safety — Contractor Management, p. 63
Community — Local Economic Impact, pp. 76-77
Community — Supplier Diversity, p. 77
Governance — Corporate Governance and Compensation Practices, p. 84
Governance — Governance, pp. 85-89
Governance — Governance Documents, p. 92
GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016
414-1 New suppliers that were screened 
using social criteria11.10.8  
11.12.3Health and Safety — Contractor Management, p. 63
All field-based contractors are screened on health, safety and environmental criteria.
PUBLIC POLICY
GRI 103: Management Approach 2016
103-2 The management approach and its 
componentsESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Oversight, pp. 14-17
Governance — Public Policy and Political Disclosures, pp. 88-89
Policy on Political Contributions and Lobbying
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approachGovernance — Public Policy and Political Disclosures, pp. 88-89
GRI 415: Public Policy 2016
103-2 415-1 Political contributions 11.22.2 Governance — Public Policy and Political Disclosures, pp. 88-89
2021 Political ContributionsIntroduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
124
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportIpieca-API-IOGP Sustainability reporting guidance 
for the oil and gas industry (4th Edition 2020)
   Disc. # Disclosure Title Location in Report/Response/Omission
GOVERNANCE AND BUSINESS ETHICS
GOV-1 Governance approach  Governance, pp. 83-96
GOV-2 Management systems  ESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) 
Oversight, pp. 14-17
ESG Overview — Our Approach to ESG Matters, pp. 18-19 
Governance, pp. 83-96
GOV-3 Preventing corruption  Governance — Governance, pp. 85-89
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
GOV-4 Transparency of payments to host governments   
GOV-5 Public advocacy and lobbying  ESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) 
Oversight, pp. 14-17
Governance — Public Policy and Political Disclosures, pp. 88-89
Policy on Political Contributions and Lobbying
CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY
CCE-1 Climate governance and strategy  ESG Overview — Our Approach to Climate Scenario Analysis, p. 22
Governance — About This Report, pp. 93-95
Appendix — Our TCFD Analysis, pp. 105-112
CCE-2 Climate risk and opportunities  ESG Overview — Our Approach to Climate Scenario           
Analysis, p. 22
Governance — About This Report, pp. 93-95
Appendix — Our TCFD Analysis, pp. 105-112
CCE-3 Lower-carbon technology  Appendix — Our TCFD Analysis, pp. 105-112
CCE-4 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions  ESG Overview — ESG Pillars and Performance, pp. 18-19
Environment — Air, pp. 24-27
Key Performance Data — Global Greenhouse Gas               
Emissions, p. 98
Appendix — AXPC ESG Metrics Template, p. 113
CCE-5 Methane emissions  Environment — Air — Reducing Methane Emissions Through 
Industrywide Initiatives, p. 27
Environment — Air — Greenhouse Gas Emissions Performance 
and Goals, pp. 28-29
Key Performance Data — Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions, 
Global Emissions Intensities, p. 98
CCE-6 Energy use  ESG Overview — ESG Pillars and Performance, pp. 18-19
Environment — Air — Emissions, pp. 24-26
Key Performance Data — Global Energy Use, p. 98
CCE-7 Flared gas  Appendix — AXPC ESG Metrics Template, p. 113
ENVIRONMENT
ENV-1 Freshwater  ESG Overview — ESG Pillars and Performance, pp. 18-19
Environment — Water — Safeguarding Water Quality, p. 32
Key Performance Data — Global Water Use by Source, Global 
Water Metrics, U.S. Hydraulic Fracturing Water Use, p. 98
ENV-2 Discharges to water  Environment — Spill Mitigation, p. 34
Environment — Offshore Spill Preparedness, p. 35
Key Performance Data — Spills, p. 98
ENV-3 Biodiversity Policy and Strategy  Environment — Biodiversity, pp. 37-40
ENV-4 Protected and priority areas for biodiversity conservation  ESG Overview — ESG Pillars and Performance, pp. 18-19
Environment — Biodiversity, pp. 37-40
ENV-5 Emissions to air  Environment — Air, pp. 24-27
ENV-6 Spills to the environment  Environment — Spill Mitigation, p. 34
Environment — Offshore Spill Preparedness, p. 35
Key Performance Data — Spills, p. 98
ENV-7 Materials management 
ENV-8 Decommissioning   Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
125
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportIpieca-API-IOGP Sustainability reporting guidance  
for the oil and gas industry (4th Edition 2020) (Continued)
   Disc. # Disclosure Title Location in Report/Response/Omission
SAFETY, HEALTH AND SECURITY
SHS-1 Safety, health and security engagement  ESG Overview — ESG Pillars and Performance, pp. 18-19
Health and Safety — Our Safety Philosophy, pp. 58-62
Key Performance Data — Health and Safety, p. 98
SHS-2 Workforce and community health  Community — Our Approach to Social Investing and Community Engagement, pp. 68-75
Community — Engaging the Surinamese Community, p. 80
SHS-3 Occupational injury and illness incidents  ESG Overview — ESG Pillars and Performance, pp. 18-19
Health and Safety — Our Safety Philosophy, pp. 58-62
Key Performance Data — Health and Safety, p. 98
SHS-4 Transport safety   
SHS-5 Product stewardship   
SHS-6 Process safety  Health and Safety, pp. 55-66
SHS-7 Security risk management   
SOCIAL
SOC-1 Human rights due diligence  Community — Human Rights, pp. 81-82
Governance — Governance, pp. 85-89
Human Rights Principles
Monitoring of Human Rights Principles
Supplier Code of Conduct
SOC-2 Suppliers and human rights  Community — Human Rights, pp. 81-82
Governance — Governance, pp. 85-89
Human Rights Principles
Monitoring of Human Rights Principles
Supplier Code of Conduct
SOC-3 Human rights and security
SOC-4 Site-based labour practices and worker accommodation   
SOV-5 Workforce diversity and inclusion  Our People — Diversity and Inclusion, pp. 44-47
SOC-6  Workforce engagement Our People — Recruitment, Development and Engagement, pp. 51-54
SOC-7 Workforce training and development  Our People — Recruitment, Development and Engagement, pp. 51-54
SOC-8 Workforce non-retaliation and grievance systems  Governance — Governance, pp. 85-89 
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
SOC-9 Local community impacts and engagement  Community, pp. 67-82
SOC-10 Engagement with indigenous peoples  Community — Respecting Indigenous Peoples, p. 82
Indigenous Peoples Principles
Human Rights Principles
SOC-11 Land acquisition and involuntary resettlement   
SOC-12 Community grievance mechanisms  Community — Understanding and Addressing Stakeholder Concerns, pp. 78-79 
Governance — Governance, pp. 85-89 
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
SOC-13 Social investment  Community — Our Approach to Social Investing and Community Engagement, pp. 68-75
Community — Local Economic Impact, pp. 76-77
Community — Supplier Diversity, p. 77 
Key Performance Data — Economic Contributions, Social Investing, p. 99
SOC-14 Local procurement and supplier development  Health and Safety — Contractor Management, p. 63
Community — Local Economic Impact, pp. 76-77
Community — Supplier Diversity, p. 77
Key Performance Data — Economic Contributions, Social Investing, p. 99
Supplier Code of Conduct
SOC-15 Local hiring practices  Our People — Hiring Locally, p. 50
Key Performance Data — Economic Contributions, Social Investing, p. 99Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
126
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportSustainability Accounting Standards Board’s Oil and Gas 
Exploration and Production Sustainability Accounting Standard
   Disc. # Disclosure Title Location in Report/Response/Omission
ACTIVITY METRICS
EM-EP-000.A Wellhead production 2021 Form 10-K , pp. 3-8
EM-EP-000.B Number of offshore sites 2021 Form 10-K , pp. 3-8
EM-EP-000.C Number of terrestrial sites 2021 Form 10-K , pp. 3-8
GREENHOUS GAS EMISSIONS
EM-EP-110a.1 Gross global Scope 1 emissions ESG Overview — ESG Pillars and Performance, pp. 18-19
Environment — Air — Greenhouse Gas Emissions Performance and                 
Goals, pp. 28-29
Key Performance Data — Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions, p. 98
EM-EP-110a.2 Gross global Scope 1 emissions by source ESG Overview — ESG Pillars and Performance, pp. 18-19
Environment — Air — Greenhouse Gas Emissions Performance and                  
Goals, pp. 28-29
Key Performance Data — Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions, p. 98
EM-EP-110a.3 Emissions reduction plans, targets and performance Introduction — Letter from the CEO, pp. 06-07
ESG Overview — ESG Pillars and Performance, pp. 18-19
ESG Overview — ESG Goals, pp. 20-21
Environment — Air — Greenhouse Gas Emissions Performance and                 
Goals, pp. 28-29
Key Performance Data — Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions, p. 98
Appendix — Our TCFD Analysis, pp. 105-112
WATER MANAGEMENT
EM-EP-140a.1 Freshwater withdrawal and consumption, including in 
regions of high baseline water stressESG Overview — ESG Pillars and Performance, pp. 18-19
Environment — Water — Safeguarding Water Quality, p. 32
Key Performance Data — Global Water Use by Source, Global Water Metrics, 
U.S. Hydraulic Fracturing Water Use, p. 98
EM-EP-140a.2 Volume of produced water and flowback generated, 
discharged, injected, recycledESG Overview — ESG Pillars and Performance, pp. 18-19
Environment — Water — Safeguarding Water Quality, p. 32
Key Performance Data — Global Water Use by Source, Global Water Metrics, 
U.S. Hydraulic Fracturing Water Use, p. 98
EM-EP-140a.3 Percentage of wells with disclosure of fracturing chemicals Environment — Greener Chemicals for Hydraulic Fracturing, p. 36
BIODIVERSITY IMPACTS
EM-EP-160a.1 Environmental management practices for active sites ESG Overview — ESG Pillars and Performance, pp. 18-19
ESG Overview — ESG Goals, pp. 20-21
Environment — Biodiversity, pp. 37-40
EM-EP-160a.2 Number and aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills Environment — Spill Mitigation, p. 34
Environment — Offshore Spill Preparedness, p. 35
Key Performance Data — Spills, p. 98
SECURITY, HUMAN RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLES
EM-EP-210a.3 Discussion of engagement processes and due diligence 
practices with respect to human rights, indigenous rights, 
and operation in areas of conflictCommunity — Human Rights, pp. 81-82 
Governance — Governance, pp. 85-89 
Indigenous Peoples Principles
Human Rights Principles
Supplier Code of Conduct
COMMUNITY RELATIONS
EM-EP-210b.1 Process to manage risks and opportunities associated 
with community rights and interestsCommunity, pp. 67-82Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
127
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportSustainability Accounting Standards Board’s Oil and Gas   
Exploration and Production Sustainability Accounting Standard (Continued)
   Disc. # Disclosure Title Location in Report/Response/Omission
WORKFORCE HEALTH AND SAFETY
EM-EP-320a.1 (1) Total recordable incident rate (TRIR), (2) fatality rate, (3) near 
miss frequency rate (NMFR), and (4) average hours of health, safety, 
and emergency response training for (a)full-time employees, (b) 
contract employees, and (c) short-service employeesKey Performance Data — Health and Safety, p. 98
EM-EP-320a.2 Discussion of management systems used to integrate a culture of 
safety throughout the exploration and production lifecycleESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) 
Oversight, pp. 14-17
ESG Overview — Our Approach to ESG Matters, pp. 18-19
ESG Overview — ESG Goals, pp. 20-21
Health and Safety, pp. 55-66
RESERVES VALUATION & CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
EM-EP-420a.1 Sensitivity of hydrocarbon reserve levels to future price projection 
scenarios that account for a price on carbon emissionsAppendix — Our TCFD Analysis, pp. 105-112
BUSINESS ETHICS & PAYMENTS TRANSPARENCY
EM-EP-510a.2 Description of the management system for prevention of corruption 
and bribery throughout the value chainGovernance — Ethics and Anti-Corruption, pp. 87-88
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
FCPA and Anti-Corruption Compliance Guide
Supplier Code of Conduct
CRITICAL INCIDENT RISK MANAGEMENT
EM-EP-540a.1 Tier 1 loss of primary containment events Key Performance Data — Spills, p. 98
EM-EP-540a.2 Description of management systems used to identify and mitigate 
catastrophic and tail-end risksEnvironment — Water, pp. 30-33
Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
128
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportTask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Index
   Disclosure Title Location in Report/Response/Omission
GOVERNANCE
Board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities ESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Oversight, pp. 14-17
ESG Overview — Our Approach to Climate Scenario Analysis, p. 22
Appendix — Our TCFD Analysis, pp. 105-112
Management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related 
risks and opportunitiesESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Oversight, pp. 14-17
ESG Overview — Our Approach to Climate Scenario  Analysis, p. 22
Appendix — Our TCFD Analysis, pp. 104-112
STRATEGY
Climate-related risks identified Appendix — Our TCFD Analysis, pp. 105-112
Impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on strategy Appendix — Our TCFD Analysis, pp. 105-112
Resilience of strategy under different climate-related scenarios ESG Overview — Our Approach to Climate Scenario  Analysis, p. 22
Appendix — Our TCFD Analysis, pp. 105-112
RISK MANAGEMENT
Organization’s processes for identifying and assessing 
climate-related risksESG Overview — Our Approach to Climate Scenario Analysis, p. 22
Appendix — Our TCFD Analysis, pp. 105-112
Organization’s processes for managing climate-related risks ESG Overview — Our Approach to Climate Scenario Analysis, p. 22
Appendix — Our TCFD Analysis, pp. 105-112
Processes for identifying, assessing and managing climate-
related risks in overall risk management processesESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Oversight, pp. 14-17
ESG Overview — Our Approach to ESG Matters, pp. 18-19
Governance — Corporate Governance and Compensation Practices, p. 84
Governance — Governance, pp. 85-89
Appendix — Our TCFD Analysis, pp. 105-112
2021 Form 10-K , pp. ii, 20-21, 27-30
METRICS AND TARGETS
Metrics used to assess climate-related risks and opportunities ESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Oversight, pp. 14-17
ESG Overview — Our Approach to ESG Matters, pp. 18-19
Environment — Air, pp. 24-27
Governance — About This Report, pp. 93-95
Key Performance Data — Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions, p. 98
Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions ESG Overview — Our Approach to ESG Matters, pp. 18-19
Environment — Air — Greenhouse Gas Emissions Performance and Goals, pp. 28-29
Key Performance Data — Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions, p. 98
Targets used to manage climate-related risks and opportunities 
and performanceIntroduction — Letter from the CEO, pp. 06-07
ESG Overview — Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Oversight, pp. 14-17
ESG Overview — Our Approach to ESG Matters, pp. 18-19
Environment — Air, pp. 24-27
Governance — About This Report, pp. 93-95
Key Performance Data — Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions, p. 98
Appendix — Our TCFD Analysis, pp. 105-112Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
129
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportUnited Nations Sustainable Development Goals Index
The table below provides locations in this report that describe how APA Corporation’s work is helping to drive progress toward 
all 17 U.N. Sustainable Development Goals.
   U.N. Sustainable Development Goal Location in Report
Goal 1: End poverty in all its forms everywhere. Community, pp. 67-82
Goal 2: End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture. Community, pp. 67-82
Goal 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages. Health and Safety, pp. 55-66
Community, pp. 67-82
Goal 4:  Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning           
opportunities for all.Our People, pp. 43-54
Community, pp. 67-82
Governance, pp. 83-96
Goal 5: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls. Our People, pp. 43-54
Community, pp. 67-82
Goal 6: Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all. Environment, pp. 23-42
Community, pp. 67-82
Goal 7: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all. Environment, pp. 23-42
Community, pp. 67-82
Governance, pp. 83-96
Goal 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment 
and decent work for all.Our People, pp. 43-54
Governance, pp. 83-96
Goal 9: Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and 
foster innovation.Community, pp. 67-82
Goal 10: Reduce inequality within and among countries. Our People, pp. 43-54
Community, pp. 67-82
Goal 11: Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. Health and Safety, pp. 55-66
Community, pp. 67-82
Goal 12: Responsible consumption and production — ensure sustainable consumption and 
production patterns.Environment, pp. 23-42
Governance, pp. 83-96Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
130
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportUnited Nations Sustainable Development Goals Index  (Continued)
   U.N. Sustainable Development Goal Location in Report
Goal 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts. Environment, pp. 23-42
Governance, pp. 83-96
Goal 14: Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for 
sustainable development.Environment, pp. 23-42
Goal 15: Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage 
forests, combat desertification, halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss.Environment, pp. 23-42
Community, pp. 67-82
Goal 16: Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice 
for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels.Our People, pp. 43-54
Community, pp. 67-82
Governance, pp. 83-96
Goal 17: Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for
sustainable development.Environment, pp. 23-42
Our People, pp. 43-54
Community, pp. 67-82
Governance, pp. 83-96
Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
131
APA Corporation  |   2022  Sustainability ReportCautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk
This report includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 
21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), including statements regarding our environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) strategy, management and performance and other business plans, initiatives and objectives, including with respect to 
emissions reduction goals, the anticipated timing of achieving such goals, if at all; with respect to new projects and technologies, the 
implementation and timing, if at all, and anticipated benefits, if any, of such new projects and technologies; and with respect to freshwater 
consumption goals, the anticipated timing of achieving such goals, if at all. All statements other than statements of historical facts, including 
information about our ESG and sustainability goals, targets and commitments and planned social, safety and environmental policies, 
programs and initiatives, are forward-looking statements. These statements are generally accompanied by the use of forward-looking 
terminology such as “may,” “will,” “could,” “expect,” “intend,” “project,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “plan,” “believe,” “continue,” “seek,” “guidance,” 
“might,” “outlook,” “possibly,” “potential,” “prospect,” “should,” “would,” or similar terminology, but the absence of these words does not mean 
that a statement is not forward looking. All forward-looking statements are based on management’s current assumptions and expectations, 
and although we believe that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance that 
such expectations will prove to have been correct. All such statements are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for 
forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Exchange Act. Our actual future results, including the achievement of 
goals, targets or commitments, could differ materially from our expectations as the result of changes in circumstances, assumptions not 
being realized, or other risks, uncertainties or factors. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our 
expectations are included in the company’s annual and quarterly reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), as well 
as, with respect to our ESG strategy, management and performance, the assumptions, risks, uncertainties, and factors identified in this 
report and in our other ESG reporting, including factors such as (i) the availability of funding for the goals, initiatives, and programs 
described in this report; (ii) our ability to achieve reductions in greenhouse gas and CO 2e emissions, freshwater consumption, and energy 
use and other sustainability goals and objectives; (iii) changes in our strategies and priorities; (iv) changes in the priorities of our customers 
and suppliers; (v) the timing and amounts of our future investments; (vi) the accuracy of our estimates and assumptions and the scenarios on 
which we base such estimates and assumptions; (vii) the future effect of legislation, rulemaking and changes in policy; (viii) the impact of 
acquisitions and divestitures; (ix) the competitive environment; (x) our ability to attract and retain personnel with the technical skills 
necessary to implement our ESG initiatives; (xi) the timing and efficacy of our technologically developed solutions; (xii) the willingness of our 
partners to comply with our programs and initiatives; and (xiii) the impact of global economic, business, political, and climate conditions on 
the goals, initiatives, and programs described in this report. We urge you to consider all of the risks, uncertainties and factors identified 
above or discussed in such reports carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements in this report. We also advise you that the 
disclosure of forward-looking statements and other information included in this report does not indicate that the materiality of such 
information rises to the standard of “materiality” for purposes of federal securities law disclosure requirements and SEC filings. The 
forward-looking statements in our reporting are made as of the effective date identified on the applicable report, unless otherwise indicated, 
and we undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
About Our GHG Emissions Estimates
The estimated APA GHG emissions described in this report are derived from a combination of measured and estimated data using the best 
reasonably available information as of December 31, 2021. We use industry standards and practices for estimating GHG emissions, 
including guidance from the U.S. EPA, U.K. ETS, API, SASB and Ipieca. We continue to improve data quality including those with respect to 
equipment inventories and estimation or measurement of GHG emissions. The uncertainty associated with APA’s emissions estimates 
depends on variation in the processes and operations, the availability of sufficient representative data, the quality of available data, and the 
methodologies used for measurement and estimation. We intend to continue to update our emissions estimates, in accordance with 
applicable standards, in the event of significant changes as additional data become available, or estimation methodologies are refined, and 
to reflect significant changes to APA’s assets, operations or emissions boundaries. APA has endeavored to estimate direct GHG emissions 
from our operations (Scope 1) and indirect emissions associated with the generation by others of electricity that we purchase for use in our 
operations (Scope 2).Introduction ESG Overview Environment Health and Safety Community Governance Appendix Our People
2000 Post Oak Blvd, Ste 100
Houston, TX 77056-4400
apacorp.com