2021
Sustainability ReportWelcome to APA Corporation’s
2021 Sustainability Report
This report includes a comprehensive view of our approach to, 
and progress on, sustainability initiatives. We have organized this 
year’s report with an eye toward capturing and summarizing key 
messages, with important new disclosures in the first 16 pages. 
Data included in this report covers the 2020 calendar year unless 
otherwise noted.
2021 Sustainability Report 
To view the report online, please visit the APA Corporation website at https://www.apacorp.com/sustainability. 
APA Corporation Website 
https://www.apacorp.com
Media or Other  Stakeholder Inquiries 
Members of the media and other external stakeholders are welcome to contact our Communications & Public Affairs department 
with inquiries or for information about the company. These requests may be directed to media@apachecorp.com.Contents
Feature Stories
A Focused and Rapid Response to Minimize    
the Pandemic’s Impacts            40
Building a More Effective  Organization                    42 
Our People
Diversity and Inclusion            43
Hiring Locally                                                49
Recruitment, Development  and Engagement          50
Health and Safety
A Resilient Approach to  Health and Safety                            53
Our Performance                                                                                        56
Contractor Partnership                               60
Resilience and Risk                                      61
Community
Our Approach to Social Investing and            
Community Engagement                        63
Local Economic Impacts                                71
Understanding and Addressing  Stakeholder Concerns         72
Human Rights                                                                                               77
Governance        79
Corporate Governance and  Compensation Practices         80
Governance             81
Engagement                 87
About This Report            90
Endnotes                              92
Appendix        93
Key Performance Data                              94
Awards and Recognitions            96
Board Matrix            97
Water Scarcity Maps            98
Our TCFD Analysis            99
AXPC ESG Metrics Template                  106
Reporting Standards and Frameworks         107Water Management             24
Spill Mitigation                    28
Greener Chemicals for Hydraulic Fracturing           30
Additional Environmental Topics          31
Biodiversity                    32
Seismicity and Oil and Gas Operations                    35
Waste Management             36Introduction              
About APA Corporation (APA)                                      03
Our Operations                    04
Altus Midstream                    05
Letter from the CEO                    06
Reliable, Affordable Energy: Vital for Global Progress          07
ESG Overview
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Oversight          10
Our Approach to ESG Matters                    12
ESG Goals                    14
Aligning with TCFD                    15
Emissions             18
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Performance and Goals          20Air
Water17
23Communities
+People39
01 APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report02
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportOUR PURPOSE 
Today, the world faces a dual challenge: To meet growing demand for energy and to do so 
in a cleaner, more sustainable way. We believe society can accomplish both, and we strive 
to meet those challenges while creating value for all our stakeholders.
OUR VISION
To be the premier exploration and production company, contributing to global progress by 
helping to meet the world’s energy needs.
OUR CORE VALUES 
•   Safety is not negotiable and will not  be compromised.
•   Conduct our business with honesty  and integrity.
•   We derive benefit from the Earth and take our environmental responsibility seriously.
•   Treat our stakeholders with respect  and dignity. 
•   Invest in our greatest asset: our people.
•   Expect top performance and innovation.
•   Seek relentless improvement in all facets.
•   Drive to succeed with a sense of urgency.
•   Foster a contrarian spirit.
02 APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report03
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportAbout APA Corporation (APA)
Since 1954, our team has been unified by our values, our culture and our commitment to building shareholder value, 
which empowers every employee to make decisions and achieve the company’s goals. Our global team is brought 
together by a sense of ownership and the knowledge that the best answers win. We aim to be a community partner in 
our areas of operation, focused on protecting the safety and health of our employees, communities and the environment 
while continuously looking for more sustainable ways to operate.
In 2021, Apache Corporation transitioned to a holding company structure; as a result, APA Corporation was formed and 
became the public company traded on the Nasdaq stock exchange. APA acquired the Suriname and Dominican 
Republic subsidiaries from Apache Corporation, which in turn became a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of APA. The 
Apache Corporation subsidiary continues to hold assets in the U.S., subsidiaries in Egypt and the U.K., and economic 
interests in Altus Midstream Company and Altus Midstream LP.APA Corporation’s subsidiaries have exploration and production 
operations in the U.S., Egypt’s Western Desert, the U.K.’s North Sea 
and exploration offshore Suriname and the Dominican Republic.
SUBSIDIARY
Apache CorporationSUBSIDIARY
APA SurinameSUBSIDIARY
APA Dominican Republic
U.S.
U.K.
EgyptCOMPANY STRUCTURE
Introduction04
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportAPA maintains a diversified asset 
portfolio, including conventional and 
unconventional, onshore and offshore, 
exploration and production interests. 
In the U.S., our operations are primarily focused in the Permian 
Basin. We also have operations in East Texas, the Gulf of Mexico 
and along the Gulf Coast.
Internationally, we have conventional onshore assets in  
Egypt’s Western Desert, offshore assets on the U.K.’s 
Continental Shelf, an offshore appraisal and exploration Our Operations
* Developed and undevelopedOil & NGLs
(Bbls/d)Natural Gas
(Mcf/d)  Proved Reserves
(Mboe)    Gross Acres *
(in thousands)                  
U.S. 162,385 561,731 586,402 4,882
Egypt 76,138 274,175 178,319 5,153
U.K. 52,322 57,464 108,962 516
Other International 0 0 0 2,308
Key
Mcf/d:  thousand cubic feet a day
MMcf/d:  million cubic feet a day
Bbls/d:  barrels a dayMbbls/d:  thousand barrels a day
Mboe: thousand barrels of oil equivalent
MMboe:  million barrels of oil equivalentprogram in Suriname, and an offshore exploration block in the 
Dominican Republic.
In the third quarter of 2019, we initiated an organizational 
redesign that transitioned the company from a decentralized 
regional model to a centralized model organized around 
exploration, operations and development functions.
$4.04
billion
Oil and gas revenues893
MMcf/d
Natural gas production874
MMboe
Proved reserves291
Mbbls/d
Oil and natural gas liquids 
(NGL) production2020 FINANCIAL AND PRODUCTION HIGHLIGHTSU.S.
SURINAMEU.K.
EGYPTIntroduction05
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
Altus Midstream
In November 2018, Apache 
Corporation announced the formation 
of Altus Midstream Company 
(Nasdaq: ALTM), a Permian-to-Gulf 
Coast midstream C-corporation.
Altus owns substantially all of the gas gathering and  
processing assets servicing production from the Alpine High 
play in the Delaware Basin, and owns equity interests in four 
Permian-to-Gulf Coast pipelines, providing the company with 
fully integrated, wellhead-to-Texas Gulf Coast processing 
connectivity. Altus invested in and operates upgraded, resilient, 
large-scale infrastructure capable of processing and delivering 
natural gas to market (U.N. Sustainable Development Goal  
No. 9).
Apache owns approximately 79% of Altus and oversees 
management of the company. In managing Altus, we are 
committed to protecting the health and safety of our workers, 
communities and the environment.
Altus’s diverse mix of assets enabled the company to deliver 
strong performance in a challenging year. Read more on the 
Altus website at altusmidstream.com .2020 PERFECT SAFETY AWARD RECIPIENT
In 2020, for the second year in a row, Altus Midstream received 
the GPA Midstream Association Perfect Record Award. The award 
recognizes midstream industry companies with outstanding safety
performance and is presented to those with no lost-time accidents 
from January 1 through December 31.
Established in 1921, GPA Midstream Association is an 
incorporated nonprofit trade organization that serves the 
midstream sector of the energy industry. GPA Midstream has 
more than 80 corporate members.
05 APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportIntroduction06
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
APA Stakeholders, 
I am pleased to share APA Corporation’s 2021 Sustainability 
Report, which describes our recent efforts and progress on 
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) issues. While the 
COVID-19 pandemic and associated market dynamics 
dramatically impacted our business in 2020, we remained 
focused on our ESG goals and performance and successfully 
managed the challenges to become a stronger and more 
resilient company.
The pandemic continues to affect how the world operates and 
has reminded us of the importance of affordable, reliable 
energy — it enables greater access to modern medical facilities, 
food supplies, clean water, sanitation, shelter, communication, 
schools and economic development. In fact, achieving most of 
the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals will require 
access to affordable, reliable energy. 
At APA, we are working to help 
provide the energy to drive economies 
forward and create opportunities to 
elevate people to higher standards of 
living across the globe.
Looking to future energy needs, the International Energy Agency 
projects that natural gas and oil will continue to play a 
substantial role in the worldwide energy mix for decades to 
come. Hydrocarbons will also play a key role in helping to meet 
our collective carbon dioxide (CO 2) reduction ambitions. Just as 
the U.S. has used natural gas to reduce its energy-related CO 2 
emissions to the lowest levels in a generation, growing 
economies such as China and India also have an opportunity to 
dramatically reduce their emissions through coal to natural gas 
fuel switching.
As APA works to help address the global challenges of providing 
energy and reducing emissions, we are committed to producing 
those resources safely and responsibly. In 2020, we organized 
our ESG efforts around three areas where we believe we can have 
the greatest direct impact: air, water and communities+people. 
We also strengthened the connection between our performance on ESG and compensation by increasing ESG-related goals to 
account for 20% of every employee’s annual incentive pay 
calculation, a practice we continued in 2021.
In 2020, we made progress across all three areas. Our 
programs to reduce air emissions are showing significant 
results. Over the last five years, we have reduced flaring 
emissions by 27%, reduced Scope 1 emissions by 16%, and 
reduced Scope 2 emissions by 55%. We are using best 
practices to safeguard water quality and minimize our use of 
fresh water by reusing produced water or sourcing alternatives. 
Since 2016, 84% of all the water we have used for global 
production operations has been recycled or reused, and in 
2020, 91% of the water used for hydraulic fracturing in our  
U.S. operations was nonfresh or recycled produced water.
The COVID-19 pandemic was especially challenging for our 
communities and people. I am impressed by and thankful for 
our team, who maintained business continuity and employee 
safety with remote work and new operational protocols. Further, 
in every region where we operate, we consulted with community 
leaders and provided assistance to help ease the public health 
burden and disruptions to daily life. For example, we donated 
more than 500,000 Personal Protective Equipment kits to 
hospitals, health care units, quarantine centers and first 
responders around the globe. In Suriname, we partnered with 
Staatsolie, the state-owned energy company, to establish an 
intensive-care unit in Paramaribo. We also made progress on 
furthering our diversity and inclusion efforts by expanding our 
training programs and creating and supporting several 
Employee Resource Groups to advance inclusion and employee 
connections across our company.
Our 2021 goals build on the success of 2020, and we continue 
to make great progress. For example, we recently announced 
the early achievement of one of our key 2021 environmental 
goals: eliminating routine flaring in the U.S. onshore. Our efforts 
to eliminate routine flaring have also helped drive down our 
flaring intensity onshore in the U.S., which is tracking well below 
our goal of less than 1% for the year.
We are confident we can make a difference and are  
channeling our energies and resources to areas of air, water  
and communities+people where we can achieve both 
immediate and long-term positive results. I am proud of the 
progress we have to share with you in the pages ahead and 
invite you to reach out to us with questions or to discuss areas 
in greater detail.
We greatly value the role we play in providing affordable, 
reliable energy to improve life around the world, and we will 
continue to do so in more sustainable ways.
John J. Christmann IV  
Chief Executive Officer and PresidentLetter from the CEOIntroduction07
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
Reliable, Affordable Energy: 
Vital for Global Progress 
According to the International Energy Agency (IEA), access  
to modern energy is “crucial to human well-being and to a 
country’s economic development.”1 With access to energy 
comes better health, education, and business and employment 
opportunities. 
The challenge is how to provide that vital energy to the   
world while reducing the environmental impact of all energy 
sources. At APA Corporation (APA), we strive to meet this 
challenge head on  by producing oil and natural gas people need 
to thrive, and to do so in a cleaner, more sustainable way. 
BETTER LIFE FOR BILLIONS OF PEOPLE
The benefits of a reliable, accessible and affordable energy 
supply are clear. Across the world, quality of life and the human 
condition have been improving for generations, with dramatic 
gains in key indicators corresponding to the significant ramp-up 
in global energy use in the mid-20th century.
Those improvements have been enabled in large part by the 
expanding availability of energy for food supplies, clean water, 
medicine, health care, education and transportation — energy 
provided predominantly by fossil fuels over that time period, 
and more recently driven by the increasing use of natural gas 
and oil.
For example, globally through 2019, life expectancy increased 
38% from 1960,2 and literacy improved 29% from 1976.3 
Further, the mortality rates for children ages 5 and younger 
have fallen below 0.5% in “more developed regions” and, 
comparing the five-year period in 1950-1955 to that of 
2015-2020, have dropped from 21% to 4% worldwide.4 
Underpinning those advances, energy has enabled significant 
productivity gains, with world gross domestic product (GDP) 
per capita rising by more than 183% from 1960 to 2020.5All energy per person, Terawatt hours01800 1850 1900 1950 201940,00080,000120,000160,000
Traditional biomassCoalOilGasOther renewablesModern biofuels
NuclearHydroWindSolarGlobal Child Mortality Rate
1950-
19551955-
19601960-
19651965-
19701970-
19751975-
19801980-
19851985-
19901990-
19951995-
20002000-
20052005-
20102010-
20152015 -
2020050100150200250Deaths under age five per 1,000 live birthsMore developed regions  
Less developed regions
Global Direct Primary Energy Consumption$0$4,000$8,000$12,000
1960 1980 2000 2020Global GDP per CapitaConstant 2010 U.S. dollarsPercent change     +183%
(1960-2020)50607090
80100
1960 198052.666.9%
2000 2020Literacy Rate
(Percentage)
Life Expectancy
(Age)Global Literacy Rate and Life Expectancy
Source: The World Bank, UNESCO Institute for Statistics
Source: United Nations, Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Population Division 
(2019) and World Population Prospects 2019, custom data acquired via website
Source: World Bank national accounts data, and OECD national accounts data files
Source: Our World In Data, Global Fossil Fuel Consumption86.5%
72.7Introduction08
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
AFFORDABLE, RELIABLE NATURAL GAS AND OIL
Natural gas and oil produced by APA and others will continue to 
play a critical role in furthering those gains in the standard of 
living for many years to come. The IEA’s 2020 Stated Policies 
Scenario (STEPS) and Sustainable Development Scenario 
(SDS) forecast that about half of the world’s energy will come 
from natural gas and oil in 2040. 
The reliability of natural gas and oil resources make them critical 
across the economy and necessary to enable the mining for and 
the development and production of other energy systems, 
including solar panels, wind turbines, battery-storage systems 
and the transmission lines needed to bring that electricity to 
market. Natural gas will also continue to serve as fuel for 
quick-start power plants to cover downtime and facilitate the 
growth of intermittent renewables. Similarly, the wide availability and affordability of natural gas 
and oil products make them important to economy-wide growth 
and to personal pocketbooks. Across all U.S. households, the 
lower cost of energy, driven by technological advancements 
during the shale revolution, helped families cope with increasing 
costs for other basic needs. From 2008 to 2019, U.S. household 
energy costs dropped 14.5%, while expenditures for food, 
education and health care have increased 26.8%, 38%, and 
74.5% respectively.6
ENERGY POVERTY: ENERGY MEANS OPPORTUNITY
Despite the many gains of the last century as access to energy 
has elevated the quality of life for billions of people, stark 
challenges remain. More than 700 million people around the 
world did not have access to electricity in 2019, a number that 
likely grew in 2020 as an estimated 30 million people could no 
longer afford electricity during the economic downturn created 
by the pandemic.7,8 In many parts of the developing world, even 
when a household has electricity, it is often intermittent and 
unreliable, making tasks like refrigerating food or medicine 
difficult.9 Lack of clean cooking fuels is much more widespread, 
affecting one-third of the world’s population10 and creating 
significant indoor air quality and health issues. These fumes are 
linked to 2.5 million premature deaths annually. And the burden 
to find cooking fuel sources often falls to women and children 
— having a greater impact not only on their health but on the 
ability to pursue education and work outside the home.11
Even in developed countries, access to affordable, reliable 
energy remains a concern for significant portions of the 
population — a challenge exacerbated by the COVID-19 
pandemic. In a May 2020 survey of U.S. households at or below 
the poverty line, 22% of respondents said they had to reduce or 
go without basic necessities like food or medicine in order to 
pay their energy bills, while 13% acknowledged they could not 
pay their energy bill in April 2020.12U.S. Household Expenditures by Category
200875100125150175200Index (2008=100)
2010 2012 2014 2016 2018Percent change  
(2008-2019)
Health care +74.5%
Education  +38.0%
Food  +26.8%
Household  -14.5%
energyPhotos by Switch Energy Alliance
Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics; Bureau of Economic AnalysisIntroduction09
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
MEETING GLOBAL DEMAND WITH  
RESPONSIBLY PRODUCED ENERGY
The U.S. is a case study for how natural gas and oil can lower 
emissions while expanding energy access. Key air pollutant 
emissions have fallen even as GDP, population and energy 
consumption have grown. According to the U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency (EPA), “between 1970 and 2019, the total 
combined emissions of the six common pollutants (PM 2.5 and 
PM10, SO2, NOx, VOCs, CO and Pb) dropped by 77%,”13 while 
energy consumption increased by 48% over the same period.14
As of 2019, U.S. energy-related carbon dioxide (CO 2) emissions 
had also dropped to the lowest levels in a generation, primarily 
due to the increased use of natural gas.15 The fuel is also ideally 
suited to play a substantial role in reducing CO 2 emissions in the 
power sector in India and China. Specifically, APA and its peers 
can produce clean natural gas in the U.S. and deliver it as 
liquefied natural gas (LNG) to Asian markets for consumption. 
This is underscored by the Energy Information Agency’s 2021 
Annual Energy Outlook Reference Case , in which U.S. LNG 
exports grow substantially through 2030 to meet international 
demand.16 In the U.S., as in much of the world, the energy 
system has shifted from one dominated by wood and coal to our present mixture of natural gas, oil, coal, nuclear, hydro, wind, 
solar and other sources.17 As the global energy mix continues to 
evolve, the energy industry is working to reduce the environmental 
impact of all sources. At APA, we work with industry partners to 
advance progress on these challenges through organizations 
such as The Environmental Partnership, ONE Future Coalition 
and the Texas Methane and Flaring Coalition. 
It’s clear that natural gas and oil will be a part of the global 
energy mix for many years to come. Our team of smart, 
innovative engineers, scientists and other professionals is 
determined to make a positive difference by providing these 
essential resources in cleaner, more sustainable ways. We will 
continue to minimize emissions, conserve water and protect 
habitats while safely producing energy to elevate people and 
families around the world. 
  U.S. Economic Growth and Reduced Emissions
-100%
1970 2000 2010 20190%100%200%300%Percent ChangeGross Domestic Product
Vehicle Miles Traveled
Population
Energy Consumption
CO2 Emissions
Aggregate Emissions 
(Six Common Pollutants)
Source: EPA, Air Trends Report, 2019Introduction10
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportBOARD OVERSIGHT OF ESG
We know that culture — and performance — start at the top,  
so our Board of Directors is actively involved in ESG issues.  
The Board regularly reviews management reports and 
welcomes external perspectives on a range of sustainability 
issues, including environmental, health and safety performance; 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and water usage; succession 
planning; diversity and inclusion; and cybersecurity. To foster 
continuous ESG engagement and education, our Board 
members routinely pursue opportunities to remain well-
informed on recent developments. Although most in-person 
conferences and meetings have been postponed or cancelled, 
our Board participates in virtual conferences and ESG webinars 
available online when practicable. The Board also invites 
external experts on ESG issues to provide ongoing education 
and fresh insights.
Our Board members, including our CEO, also engage directly 
with ESG-focused shareholders to gain external perspectives 
on key ESG issues. They have also attended and spoken at 
major ESG conferences, enabling further in-person discussion 
of these issues. 
BOARD ESG FRAMEWORK
APA’s Board has three standing committees, each devoted  
to a separate aspect of risk oversight — the Corporate 
Responsibility, Governance & Nominating (CRG&N) Committee; 
the Audit Committee; and the Management Development & 
Compensation (MD&C) Committee. The CRG&N Committee 
oversees the company’s efforts on ESG issues. This committee’s 
annual calendar includes designated meetings for more 
in-depth discussion on various ESG topics, including human rights, governance matters that impact the company and the 
energy industry, and this report. The Audit Committee regularly 
reviews matters related to cybersecurity. The MD&C Committee 
oversees succession planning, executive compensation and 
diversity and inclusion.
PRIORITIZING AND MANAGING ESG INITIATIVES 
APA has committed considerable time, energy and capital to 
lessen its impact on the environment and to manage the 
evolving opportunities and risks associated with climate change.
ESG Management Committee
In early 2020, we created a dedicated, cross-functional team  
to drive and elevate ESG strategies and initiatives across the 
organization. This committee, consisting of five corporate 
officers, was created to evaluate the ESG trends and develop a 
strategic framework to assist the company in focusing on its 
most impactful ESG processes and outcomes.
This team meets regularly to discuss ESG trends, develop 
tangible, target-based goals and resource recommendations, 
review progress and make adjustments where necessary.
ESG STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 
To better understand external perspectives and concerns, 
members of APA’s Board, executive team and ESG Management 
Committee regularly engage with shareholders, government 
agencies and regulators, nongovernmental organizations and 
other stakeholders on a variety of ESG issues, including GHG 
emissions, climate change-related risks, corporate governance 
and human capital management.Environmental, Social and 
Governance (ESG) Oversight
           ESG Engagement
The following are some of the key organizations we engage with on ESG issues:
• As You Sow
• The Aspen Institute
• Ceres
• Environmental Defense Fund (EDF)
• The Environmental Partnership
• Interfaith Center on Corporate  
Responsibility (ICCR)
• McDonald Observatory• The Mitchell Foundation
• National Fish and Wildlife   
Foundation (NFWF)
• The Nature Conservancy
• ONE Future Coalition
• Sustainability Accounting   
Standards Board
ESG Overview11
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportOversees the nomination of 
Directors, the annual Board 
evaluation process, corporate 
governance and ESG issues, as  
well as the Sustainability Report.Oversees the integrity of the 
company’s financial statements, 
compliance with legal and regulatory 
requirements, financial risk 
management, Internal Audit function 
and independent auditors, and 
accounting and financial reporting, 
among other duties.Oversees compensation, 
development and succession 
planning for executives and seeks 
continuous improvement in the 
diversity and inclusion practices 
used in developing and deploying 
these processes.  APA’S FULL BOARD
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY, 
GOVERNANCE & 
NOMINATING COMMITTEEAUDIT COMMITTEEMANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT & 
COMPENSATION COMMITTEEESG EXPERTS INVITED   
TO SPEAK TO THE BOARD
•   Climate change  
•   Energy and geopolitics
•   CybersecurityESG ENGAGEMENT 
•  One-on-one shareholder  
meetings 
•   Women in Governance Lunch  •   Governance Week 
•   Society for Corporate Governance  
•  Industry ESG Roundtables
Reported and/or discussed at least annually:
•  Ethics Hotline  reports
•  Compliance update  
•  Corporate risk management  
•  Diversity and inclusion•  Monitoring of human rights  
• Political contributions and lobbying expenses  
•  Shareholder engagement
•  Succession planningReported and/or discussed at every meeting:
•   Current ESG trends
•  Environmental, health and safety metrics
•  Executive compensation
•  Information Technology/Cybersecurity
ESG TOPIC IDENTIFICATION AND EDUCATIONASSESSMENT, MEASUREMENT AND REPORTING
ASSET TEAMS, CORPORATE FUNCTIONS AND ESG MANAGEMENT COMMITTEEEXTERNAL ESG ENGAGEMENT AND EDUCATION  
APA’S INTERNAL ESG RESOURCES
BOARD ESG FRAMEWORKESG Overview12
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
Hydrocarbon production and consumption will remain a 
significant component of the global energy landscape for 
decades to come. APA Corporation operates with a sense of 
urgency to support carbon management and the preservation 
of finite natural resources. We are committed to delivering our 
products in an environmentally and socially responsible manner 
and running our company to be financially stable and successful 
in a carbon-constrained future. We believe it is important to 
thoroughly understand, discuss and address the environmental 
externalities and risks associated with all forms of energy 
production and use, and not simply those associated with 
hydrocarbons. Only through this lens can the world properly 
assess the very complex challenges of the energy transition.
With assets and operations on four 
continents, we recognize the 
importance of being a global steward 
and community partner. We help meet 
the world’s energy needs, which 
enables and empowers global progress 
and contributes directly and indirectly to 
many of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 
(U.N. SDGs), including reducing poverty, ensuring access to 
affordable and clean energy, and promoting sustainable 
economic growth. In 2020, we aligned 100% of our community 
giving (see pp. 66-67), with the U.N. SDGs to help us identify 
our greatest potential for positive impact. An SDG index in the 
Appendix demonstrates how our business further aligns with 
the U.N. SDGs (see pp. 113-114).
At APA, we prioritize actionable initiatives over long-term 
promises. Our emphasis is on generating timely and differential 
ESG outcomes. In this vein, we undertook an extensive 
materiality assessment this year to listen and learn from a cross 
section of our key stakeholders, as well as leading thinkers in 
the energy, environmental and social policy spaces. We have 
used this information to continue to enhance our ESG 
processes and initiatives (see p. 91).
We are engaging every level of the organization through a 
“wellhead-to-boardroom approach” which aligns our collective 
interests and incentivizes top performance. This alignment is 
underpinned by the fact that 20% of all employees’ annual 
incentive compensation is linked directly to ESG-related goals, 
including safety performance.Our Approach to ESG Matters
Our greatest contribution to society is providing affordable and accessible energy.
ESG Overview13
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportESG Pillars and Performance 
We have identified three pillars through which we intend to concentrate our resources, focus our efforts, measure 
performance and maximize our positive impact. These pillars, consisting of Air, Water and Communities+People, 
serve as the foundation for our ESG strategy, initiatives and annual compensation-linked goals.
PROGRESS ACROSS OUR ESG PILLARS:
27% 
reduction in flaring emissions  
totaling 540,000 tonnes CO2e  
since 2016.
41% 
reduction in venting emissions  
totaling 310,000 tonnes CO2e 
since 2016.16% 
reduction in Scope 1 emissions  
totaling 1.16 million tonnes CO2e 
since 2016. 
4.8 million    
trees have been donated since the 
launch of the Apache Tree Grant 
Program  in 2005. 55% 
reduction in Scope 2 emissions  
totaling 610,000 tonnes CO2e 
since 2016. 
Achieved
our goal to end routine flaring in 
U.S.  onshore operations by the end 
of 2021.Air
500,000 + 
personal protective equipment 
kits and equipment were donated  
to global hospitals, health care 
units, quarantine centers and first 
responders in 2020.~15,000  
girls in Egypt have learned to 
read and write in schools we have 
supported since 2004.33% 
of U.S. employees self-identified  
as ethnic minorities, up from 25% 
in 2016. 
0.83
Vehicle Incident Rate (VIR) of  
0.83 per million miles driven  
in 2020. 0.48
Total Recordable Incident Rate  
(TRIR) of 0.48 per 200,000 hours 
worked in 2020. 0.23
Days Away, Restricted or 
Transferred (DART) rate of 0.23  
per 200,000 hours worked in 2020.Communities+People91% 
of the water used in our U.S. 
hydraulic fracturing operations in 
2020 was nonfresh or recycled 
produced water. 84% 
of the total water utilized for 
production operations since 2016 
has been recycled or reused.Established
a 2021 goal to reduce U.S.   
total operational water usage  
to comprise less than 20%   
fresh water.Water
PRIMARY WORKFORCE SAFETY GOALS             Below Target           Met Target            Above TargetESG Overview14
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportThe goals are generally set at the beginning of the year by the 
Board’s Management Development & Compensation (MD&C) 
Committee and recommended for approval in the February 
Board meeting.
2020 ESG GOALS
Despite the significant challenges presented by the global 
pandemic, in 2020 we performed well on our ESG and safety-
related initiatives.
•  Delivered all primary workforce safety goals at “met target or 
below target” in 2020.
•  Directed 100% of our philanthropic dollars in support of 
causes that align with the United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals.•  Enhanced and expanded compliance, safety, diversity and 
inclusion training programs. Implemented multiple initiatives 
focusing on improving the health, wellness, education and 
diversity of our workforce.
•  Prioritized the enhancement of our systems and processes 
used to measure, manage and reduce GHG emissions, flaring 
and freshwater use. This facilitated the development of 
measurable and impactful environmental goals for 2021.
2021 ESG GOALS
In 2021, 20% of APA Corporation’s management and  
employee incentive compensation is linked to ESG goals, 
including safety performance.
Our specific targets include: 
• Reducing our Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) and 
Severe Incidents and Fatalities (SIF) events.
• Eliminating U.S. onshore routine flaring by year-end 2021.
• Achieving U.S. onshore flaring intensity of less than 1%.
• Reducing U.S. total operational water usage to comprise less 
than 20% fresh water.
• Fostering a more inclusive culture where all employees can 
thrive, which includes:
‒ Increasing participation in Employee Resource Groups
‒  Deploying diversity and inclusion (D&I) training for   
all employees
‒  Establishing a council to engage employees in D&I 
initiatives
‒  Establishing a dashboard to monitor diversity trends within 
the organization
We continue to focus on quantitative GHG targets along with 
tangible projects for achieving those goals. ESG Goals
Our annual incentive compensation-linked goals comprise quantitative and 
qualitative operational, financial, health and safety, and other ESG objectives. 
ESG Overview15
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportWe expanded our alignment with TCFD standards with the 
introduction of a Climate Statement and a fully aligned TCFD 
scenario analysis, which assists in assessing, planning and 
managing future challenges and opportunities.
OUR CLIMATE STATEMENT
Climate change is an important issue for our company and  
our stakeholders. We are committed to helping address the 
challenges of climate change, while also continuing to produce 
reliable, affordable energy to help meet the world’s needs and 
drive global prosperity.
Our products underpin the global economy, elevate billions to 
higher standards of living and enable innovation and practical 
expansion of other energy sources.
We work every day to reduce our environmental footprint, 
ensure the safety of our operations, and partner with our 
communities to create long-lasting value. We are focused on 
opportunities where we can have a meaningful impact on our 
key ESG focus areas of Air, Water and Communities+People.  
To pursue significant progress, we are setting and working to 
achieve targets that will reduce our environmental impact;  
for example, GHG intensity, methane intensity, freshwater  
usage, etc.
TCFD SCENARIO PLANNING FRAMEWORK
New in 2021, we undertook a scenario planning analysis in 
alignment with the TCFD reporting framework. While scenario 
and portfolio planning are part of our ongoing business planning 
and risk management processes, our expanded climate-focused 
scenario planning framework included forecasts of future 
demand and pricing in energy markets, as well as changes in 
government regulations and policy. We consider a range of 
pricing scenarios when forming our long-term investment and 
development plans, including scenarios in a carbon-constrained 
world, that assess the potential climate-related risks and 
opportunities influencing fossil fuel supply and demand.Aligning With TCFD
This year, we formalized our support for the Taskforce on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations.
Under all future pricing 
scenarios considered, the 
break-even prices referenced  
in each of APA’s core areas   
of operations indicate the  
long-term potential for 
positive returns generation .
ESG Overview16
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
Aligning With the Industry  on ESG Reporting
Through collaboration with industry peers, investors and trade associations, much progress has been made in 2020 and 
2021 to identify the ESG metrics most essential to oil and gas companies. As a result, the American Exploration and 
Production Council (AXPC) has developed a framework for disclosing the most important metrics, utilizing standardized 
calculations designed to improve reporting consistency and comparability amongst its members. We believe reporting in 
alignment with this framework will allow our stakeholders to compare relative ESG performance across our peer group, and 
to learn more about emerging trends within the upstream industry.
The 2020 U.S.-only data submitted to AXPC can be found on p. 106 in the Appendix of this report.Our analysis includes the input of experts from several internal 
functional areas, for more rigorous, multidisciplinary planning 
scenarios. Given the dynamic nature of our business, we 
perform annual scenario analyses with five-year time horizons. 
However, we also appreciate the value of climate-related 
financial analysis with longer-term supply/demand, regulatory 
frameworks and pricing taken into consideration, as prescribed 
by TCFD. When analyzing longer-term TCFD scenarios, we rely 
on external analysis for demand scenarios, carbon pricing and 
comparison-pricing scenarios, which we compare to our 
internally prepared base-case pricing analysis averaged out  
to 2040.
For our scenario-planning pricing analysis, we identified three 
World Energy Outlook (WEO) scenarios from the International 
Energy Agency (IEA) most relevant to our business: the Stated 
Policies Scenario (STEPS), Delayed Recovery Scenario (DRS) and 
the Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS). The chart to the 
right illustrates these scenarios compared to our Base Case, 
including break-even pricing associated with each of our operating 
areas. These break-even prices have been normalized in 2020 
U.S. dollars per barrel.
For additional information, please read our comprehensive 
TCFD-aligned analysis on pp. 99-105.WTI/ Brent Blend Equivalent Break-Even Price $/bbl (2020)
*  Break-even pricing is from 2021 Wood Mackenzie reports for Apache’s  
Egypt and North Sea fields. The UK North Sea sector includes the break-even 
Final Investment Decision (FID) estimate for brownfield development. The 
2021 Enverus Haynesville Play Fundamentals report provided the Delaware 
and Midland Basins half-cycle average break-even estimates (for horizontal 
wells only).Egypt$0$10$20$30$40$50$60WTI / Brent Blend Price $/BBL (2020)$70$80
North Sea Midland Basin Delaware BasinOur Base Case Avg. 2020-2040 
Applicable Carbon PricingIEA Delayed Recovery Scenario (DRS) Avg. 2020-2040IEA Stated Policies Scenario (STEPS) Avg. 2020-2040
IEA Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS) Avg. 2020-2040
Applicable Carbon Pricing
$48$64$76
$50
$26 *$33 *$36 *$40 *ASSET SCENARIO-PLANNING ASSESSMENT
ESG Overview17
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report17
 APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
Emissions            18
  Greenhouse Gas Emissions     
Performance and Goals               20 
Air 
Greenhouse gas (GHG) and methane emissions are important issues for our company. These emissions 
represent a change-related risk that could both shape and affect our business over time. We are committed 
to managing the risks that climate change presents, as discussed on pp. 15 and 18, by monitoring and 
reporting our emissions as well as setting goals to reduce emissions across our operations. These efforts 
form the basis of the Air pillar of our Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) strategy (see p. 13). We 
are improving operational efficiencies and reducing methane emissions intensity with engineering best 
management practices. Further, we set a goal to end routine flaring in U.S. onshore operations by the end of 
2021, achieving it three months ahead of schedule. With assets around the globe, we are also committed to 
supporting access to affordable and clean energy (U.N. Sustainable Development Goal No. 7).18
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportREDUCING GHG EMISSIONS
We use a range of methods to minimize GHG emissions, such  
as the careful design and engineering of new facilities and 
preventive maintenance programs for existing infrastructure. 
Optimizing the efficiency of our operations and minimizing gas 
venting also reduces GHG emissions. We adhere to applicable 
design standards, follow recognized engineering best practices, 
and use equipment specially designed to perform in severe 
service conditions in which the substances produced are 
high-temperature, abrasive or corrosive.
Reducing Flaring
In 2021, we have committed to eliminating routine flaring 
across our U.S. onshore operations by year-end, and to 
reducing our overall flaring intensity to less than 1% of the gas 
we produce. These goals are directly linked to the annual 
incentive compensation not just of management, but of all 
employees. Additional information regarding our emissions 
reduction goals can be found on our Environment webpage .Leak Detection and Repair
Leak detection and inspections to reduce emissions and for 
compliance with applicable rules and regulations are an ongoing 
and frequent part of our employees’ on-site activities. We strive 
to repair leaks at the time they are detected. When this is not 
possible, the leak is repaired when the required resources 
become available and safe operating conditions can be ensured. 
Our preventive maintenance programs help to minimize leaks 
from equipment and preemptively identify maintenance issues 
or improperly functioning equipment by using historical 
operational data to facilitate proactive upkeep, repair and 
replacement schedules.
Our employees proactively engage in asset integrity inspections 
in accordance with APA Work Rule 11 and worldwide 
environmental, health and safety (EHS) standards. Field 
employees are trained to perform olfactory, visual and audio 
inspections for possible leaks as a part of their overall 
competency training, as described in our air quality summary.
As a part of our leak detection and repair (LDAR) program,  
we use OGI cameras to examine all newly constructed facilities 
and identify and address any leaks as the facilities come online. 
Facilities that are a part of the LDAR program are reexamined at 
least twice per year with an OGI camera. OGI inspections focus 
on all components of a facility that have the potential for 
leakage, including actuators, flanges, manifolds, pressure 
vessels, tanks and valves. In 2020, we performed LDAR surveys 
at 292 facilities, exceeding requirements set by state and/or 
federal permits.
We also use OGI cameras to assess equipment as a part of 
risk-based mechanical integrity programs and to inspect 
wellheads, compressor stations and buried pipeline routes near 
residential communities and public facilities. All employees and 
contractors using OGI cameras are trained and certified to 
interpret survey results and initiate next steps to determine the 
nature and source of an identified leak.Emissions
Greenhouse gases are emitted during the production, processing and 
transportation of natural gas and oil. We are committed to reducing these 
emissions in our operations and collaborating with others across our value   
chain to develop better approaches to emission reduction and leak detection.
Optical gas imaging 
(OGI) cameras are used 
in our LDAR program.

18 APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportAir19
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportReducing Venting
We seek to minimize emissions by reducing the venting of gas. 
We avoid directly venting natural gas wherever practicable. 
Also, we conduct reduced-emission completions, a process that 
captures gas produced during well completions and workovers 
so it can be processed for sale rather than flared.
Electrification
Where we have access to the electrical grid at well sites and 
facilities, we prefer to power operations using electricity rather 
than internal combustion engines, thereby reducing fuel 
consumption and on-site GHG emissions. APA is proactively 
engaging with its electricity suppliers to improve environmental 
performance and reduce Scope 2 emissions. We continue to 
research and identify ways in which we can electrify our 
operations, and we are also researching and collaborating with 
stakeholders both to evaluate the role that renewable resources 
may be able to play in our operations and to support the 
reduction of our Scope 2 emissions.OUR EMISSIONS PERFORMANCE
2020 Emissions Reductions Activities
In 2020, we reduced both our GHG and methane emissions 
intensities.18 Overall, our emission performance improvements 
can be attributed both to optimizations of our operational profile 
and to the implementation of operational best practices. For 
example, in several of our operations, we:
• increased the use of electricity from the grid to power well 
sites and facilities, replacing diesel or gas-fired engines;
• focused on evaluating infield equipment usage with 
operational needs, which allows for identifying lower-emitting 
power sources, such as solar-powered generators;
• increased access to gathering and pipeline infrastructure, 
resulting in less flaring; and
• utilized technology to monitor operational conditions.
(See pp. 20-21 for more details on our emissions performance 
over the past five years.)
 
We committed to eliminating routine flaring  in our U.S. 
operations by year-end 2021, and achieved this crucial goal 
three months ahead of schedule.
Air20
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
Carbon Dioxide  
77%
4,830,000 tonnes CO 2 x 1 GWP = 
4,830,000 tonnes CO 2e
Methane 
22%
56,000 tonnes CH 4 x 25 GWP =
1,400,000 tonnes CO 2eNitrous Oxide  
1%
168 tonnes N 2O x 298 GWP =
50,000 tonnes CO 2e2020 GHG EMISSIONS  = 6,280,000  tonnes CO 2e We track emissions from our drilling, completion, production, gathering and boosting, and gas processing 
operations. We monitor a range of emission sources — including combustion, flaring, venting and fugitive 
emissions — to determine our overall GHG inventory.
The GHGs included in our GHG inventory calculations are carbon dioxide (CO 2), methane (CH 4) and nitrous 
oxide (N 2O). Each of the GHG components has a global warming potential (GWP) assigned to it by the U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for use in its GHG reporting programs.
The mass of each component gas — multiplied by its GWP — results in a calculated value of carbon dioxide 
equivalents (CO 2e) for that component.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
Performance and GoalsAir21
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportINDUSTRY
BENCHMARKING 
Based on a recently released M.J. Bradley & Associates study  
of the largest 100 oil and gas producers in the U.S. in 2019, 
Apache Corporation ranked No. 39 as the largest operation in 
total production, but No. 71 in Natural Gas Sustainability 
Initiative (NGSI) methane emissions intensity, and No. 51 in 
GHG intensity. Our onshore NGSI methane emissions intensity 
of 0.08% was substantially lower than the overall Permian 
Basin regional intensity of 0.15%, and the Gulf Coast regional 
intensity of 0.29%.
Apache Corporation is a subsidiary of APA Corporation.METHANE INTENSITY GOALS AND PROGRESS
Small quantities of methane — the primary component of natural gas — can be released into the 
atmosphere during production, raising the lifecycle carbon intensity of natural gas and reducing 
the total amount of product operators are able to sell. Reducing methane emissions is an 
important social, environmental, safety and economic issue for natural gas producers.27%
decrease in global  
GHG emissions 
intensity since 2016.41%
decrease in global 
methane emissions 
intensity since 2016.
15%
reduction in global 
methane emissions 
intensity since 2019.EMISSIONS PERFORMANCE
Achieved
OUR METHANE GOAL
As part of our membership in ONE Future, we set a goal to 
reduce global methane emissions from our natural gas and 
oil operations to 0.37% or less of gross methane production 
by 2025. While we met this goal in 2019, we proceeded to 
further drive down methane emissions intensity to 0.28% in 
2020 and continue to pursue annual reductions beyond the 
ONE Future Coalition goals.
Global GHG Emissions Intensity
201621.7
201721.5
201822.2
201917.9
202015.9tCO 2e/Mboe
20200.28%Global Methane Emissions Intensity
20160.48%
20170.42%
20180.40%
2019
GOAL 0.37%0.33%CH4 emitted/CH 4 produced Air22
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
Reducing Methane Emissions 
Through Industrywide Initiatives
We are participating in efforts to reduce methane emissions 
through industry partnerships that are setting and meeting 
voluntary goals and commitments that drive performance 
improvements.
We are a charter member of the ONE Future Coalition , a group 
of more than 45 companies that came together with the goal of 
reducing methane losses to less than 1% of total U.S. methane 
production across the value chain by 2025. The natural gas 
value chain is defined as operations in the production, gathering 
and boosting, transmission and storage, gas processing, and 
distribution segments. In 2018, ONE Future companies 
collectively surpassed the 1% goal seven years early, achieving 
a combined member leak/loss rate of 0.552% across the entire  
value chain. 
We are also a member of The American Petroleum Institute’s 
The Environmental Partnership , a group of more than 80 U.S. 
oil and gas companies working together to address 
environmental challenges and improve environmental 
performance in our industry. As a member of the partnership, 
APA has made and is implementing three commitments to help 
reduce emissions:
1. Implement a leak detection program , including ongoing 
monitoring and timely repair of fugitive emissions, utilizing 
detection methods and technologies such as OGI cameras 
at all relevant sites by 2025. As part of this program, we 
commit that repairs of any identified leaks will be 
completed within 60 days, unless a delay is required until 
the next scheduled shutdown or pending the availability of 
necessary parts. As of 
year-end 2020, 100% of 
our applicable U.S. sites 
had LDAR monitoring in 
place, and 100% of 
detected leaks were fixed 
within the set timeframe. 
We conducted surveys at 
292 sites during 2020.2. Replace, remove or retrofit high-bleed pneumatic 
controllers with low- or zero-emitting devices  by 2025, 
using alternative technologies such as continuous-low-
bleed controllers, intermittent-vent controllers, electrically 
operated controllers and valve actuator or mechanical 
controllers, or compressed air to replace natural gas as  
the motive gas. We are working to reduce the number of 
high-bleed pneumatic controllers in our onshore U.S. 
operations by replacing them with lower-emission 
alternatives.
3. Implement a monitoring program to minimize emissions 
associated with the unloading of liquids that can build up 
and restrict natural gas flow, particularly as a well ages. In 
2020, we reported no unmanned manual liquids unloading 
processes for gas wells in our onshore U.S. operations, 
which reduced emissions.
100 %
of our applicable U.S. sites  
had LDAR monitoring in place  
in 2020.
CASE STUDYAir23
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
Water Management        24
Spill Mitigation               28 
 Greener Chemicals for Hydraulic Fracturing                  30
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
Water  
Water is the second pillar of our Environmental, Social and Governance strategy. It is a core component of  
our ongoing oil and gas operations, and we recognize the water balance in the areas where we operate. From 
overabundance during extreme weather events that may impact our assets, to water scarcity in arid regions, 
we consider water availability and access to clean water (U.N. Sustainable Development Goal No. 6) 
throughout our project lifecycles. We use best practices to safeguard water quality both onshore and offshore 
(U.N. Sustainable Development Goal No. 14), including proper management of produced water, monitoring of 
chemicals used, and waste disposal, all of which are a core part of our sustainable operating strategy.
2324
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
As much as possible, we seek to use nonfreshwater sources  
for our operations, with a preference for reusing and recycling 
produced water. We also follow strict protocols to protect  
water quality. 
We strive to ensure that our operational activity does not limit 
access to freshwater resources relied on by other end users, 
such as municipal water systems and agriculture. These water 
management efforts are especially important in our onshore 
operating areas of the U.S. and Egypt that are located in regions 
considered “water scarce.” We take into account location, 
pricing and applicable regulations in assessing water scarcity. 
When appropriate, we utilize various data sources such as the 
U.S. Drought Monitor and the World Resources Institute’s 
Aqueduct tool to confirm our assessment of water-scarce areas 
within our operations. The results of this assessment and the 
maps prepared using these tools can be found on p. 98 of  
this report.
OPERATIONAL WATER USE
Our operational water usage is predominantly for enhanced  
oil recovery in legacy oil fields in the Permian Basin. It is also 
used for drilling and completing new wells. The chart at right 
shows the volumes of water that are either injected to enhance 
oil recovery from existing wells, or used in the drilling and 
completion, including hydraulic fracturing, of new wells. As  
can be seen in the chart, the vast majority of the water we use, 
greater than 94%, is recycled produced and nonfresh water.  
We continue to work on reducing our freshwater consumption, 
and over the past five years, this has largely been achieved by 
increasing our reuse of produced water and by sourcing new 
water from nonfreshwater sources for use in hydraulic  
fracturing operations.Water Management
We recognize that fresh water is a limited resource in the areas where we 
operate. We seek to minimize our use of fresh water by finding innovative ways 
to reuse produced water, sourcing alternatives to fresh water, and reducing the 
overall amount of water required for our operations.
84%
of all the water we have utilized 
for production operations since 
2016 has been recycled or 
reused water.
Recycled Produced Water (Mbbls)
Nonfresh Water (Mbbls)    
Fresh Water (Mbbls)     Recycled and Nonfresh Water (%)
Fresh Water (%)20160100,000200,000300,000400,000500,000600,000700,000800,000
2018 2019 2017 202096%94% 95% 95%
5.8%99.7%Global Operational Water Usage
4.4% 4.6% 4.8%
0.3%Water25
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportRESPONSIBLE PRODUCED WATER MANAGEMENT
This year, in line with the guidance19 on consumptive uses of 
water in our 2020 reporting, we have modified the way we 
report water data compared to previous years, including 
restating data from past years. Previously, we included 
produced water usage in our consumptive use calculations. 
Based on re-evaluation of water reporting definitions and 
guidance, we determined that produced water — nonpotable 
water released from deep underground formations and brought 
to the surface during oil and gas exploration and production 
— should not be classified as consumed in the same sense as 
fresh water. Produced water is not typically of a quality most 
other users would be able to utilize and therefore is not available 
for third-party usage outside the oilfield in the way fresh water 
or nonpotable surface or shallow groundwater could be. The 
water consumption calculations in the Key Performance Data 
chart on pp. 94-95 of this report therefore now reflect only the 
fresh water and nonpotable water from surface water or shallow 
groundwater that are consumed in oil and gas operations, and 
water consumption intensity values reported for 2016-2020 
have been restated accordingly.
Most of our produced water is in fact reused within our own 
secondary recovery operations by being reinjected in the same 
field from which it was produced. We also recycle produced 
water for use in hydraulic fracturing fluids. Reusing and 
recycling produced water reduces the potential for our activities 
to compete with existing uses of freshwater resources.
It also helps to reduce operating costs associated with water 
purchases and the need to transport and dispose of produced 
water from our operations. In some areas of our operations, more water is produced than 
can be reused or recycled. We continue to pursue alternatives 
to deep-injection disposal of this excess water in permitted 
injection wells, such as by evaporating the freshwater 
component of excess produced water back into the atmosphere, 
or by discharging a treated portion of the water in accordance 
with applicable regulations and industry best management 
practices (see the Operational Water Use and Water Supplies 
diagram on p. 27 for more detail on water use in our operations). 
We are focused on expanding our use of recycled produced 
water and brackish groundwater for hydraulic fracturing 
operations. We continue to evaluate alternative storage and 
reuse technologies in all our areas of operation, based on 
criteria including transportation, infrastructure, treatment 
methods and cost.
We have applied a variety of innovative technologies and 
treatment processes to allow us to store larger volumes of 
treated produced water for longer periods, including by using 
multiple smaller impoundments and by applying advanced 
chemistry. This enables us to better match the availability of 
recycled water to our operation schedules and increase the 
proportion of recycled water used in our operations. In the past 
four years, we have increased our Permian Basin produced 
water storage capacity and improved our ongoing treatment of 
stored recycled water, to ensure it remains ready for reuse.
We take appropriate measures to ensure that this water is 
handled in a manner that reduces the risk of impacts to soil, 
groundwater and surface water quality. Once treated, recycled 
water is stored in engineered, double-lined impoundments that 
have leak detection technology or in tanks that are routinely 
inspected and continually monitored. Loss of primary 
containment in impoundments is rare, but should   
it occur, these systems have secondary 
containment and detailed, location-specific 
spill prevention, countermeasure and  
control plans.
25 APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
Water26
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportWe have also expanded 
our water-related 
infrastructure, allowing us 
to move water within our 
operations without trucks, 
which reduces trucking-
related emissions, 
minimizes the potential 
for spills and lessens the 
impact on local roads. We 
have worked with the 
American Petroleum Institute to develop recommended 
practices for lay-flat hosing that is commonly used to transport 
produced water to and from well locations. The specifications 
include parameters to ensure the quality and performance of 
this piping across our industry. In 2020, in the Permian Basin, 
all the water we used for hydraulic fracturing was transported 
by either permanent or temporary pipeline.
SAFEGUARDING WATER QUALITY
We test and obtain baseline water quality data before beginning 
operations in a new area. We also conduct post-drilling water 
quality monitoring as needed, based on the location’s risk 
profile. Water quality tests include, but are not limited to, pH, 
salinity and total petroleum hydrocarbons.
We also follow comprehensive procedures for the handling of 
chemicals on the surface and during subsurface operations 
across groundwater-bearing zones, to ensure that we are 
safeguarding water quality. Protecting aquifers by maintaining the integrity of our wells is another way APA safeguards water 
quality. We take great care when planning and performing 
operations to minimize the chances of a well failure that could 
result in impacts on local water resources. Our engineers, 
geologists and geophysicists design our well drilling plans and 
completion programs after a detailed and extensive review of 
local geological knowledge and previous operational conditions, 
for the entire depth to which each well will be drilled. In 
addition, we consider potential impacts to adjacent wells or 
faults and include mitigation plans to prevent adverse impacts. 
Depending on well spacing and formation fracture direction, 
well-completion treatment volumes and pumping pressures are 
adjusted, and nearby wells are remotely monitored using 
surveillance technologies.
We carefully design the surface casings of our wells to protect 
usable groundwater intervals and ensure that the construction 
of the wells follows industry best practices. This includes 
verifying casing and cement integrity with pressure tests and 
physical inspections. We monitor and record essential data 
from cement jobs and perform evaluations to ensure adequate 
isolation of producing intervals, including zonal isolation for 
protected water resources. We use industry best practices for 
our cement testing methods, including cement bond logs, 
ultrasonic testing and temperature logging, when appropriate, 
to ensure the cement has bonded properly to the protective 
casing and the formation. We perform pressure tests on every 
surface casing string. We also conduct pressure testing prior to, 
and monitor pressure during, all hydraulic fracturing operations.91%
of the water used in our U.S. 
hydraulic fracturing operations 
in 2020 was nonfresh or 
recycled produced water.
Fresh Water            Nonfresh Water            Recycled Produced Water2016 2018 2019 2017 2020Hydraulic Fracturing Water Use, U.S. Operations Increasing Nonfreshwater 
Use for Hydraulic Fracturing 
in the U.S.
Over the past five years, we have reduced the use of fresh water in our 
U.S. hydraulic fracturing operations by increasing the use of recycled 
and nonfresh water. From 2018 to 2020, freshwater use as a percentage 
of total water used for hydraulic fracturing decreased from 32% to 
9%. However, it is important to note that our overall activity in 2020 
was down considerably, with total hydraulic fracturing water usage 
decreasing by 77% compared to the previous year’s activity, which 
reduced our opportunities to reuse produced water.
The hydraulic fracturing water use reported in the 
graph is a subset of total global operational water use 
(see p. 24 for more information on total water use).70%
53%
32%37%
9%17%
20%
22% 12%
59%13%
27%
46%51%31%Water27
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportKey
Source water flow                    Produced water flow                    Recycled water flow for certain operations
Fresh Water            Nonfresh Water            Recycled Produced WaterFresh Water
1,526 MMbblsDrilling and 
Completions
16,179 MMbblsProducing Wells
935,325 MMbblsOil, Gas 
and Water 
SeparationRecycled 
Produced Water
5,078 MMbblsProduced Water  
Treatment for Reuse
5,078 MMbbls
Nonfresh Water
9,575 MMbblsDisposal
238,208 MMbbls
Secondary 
Recovery
577,542 MMbblsOperational Water Use and Water Supplies 
Drilling, completions and production operations are our primary uses of water, which we source from groundwater aquifers, 
surface waters, municipal water and produced water. The volumes noted in the diagram below are 2020 operational water  
use results in millions of barrels (MMbbls).
KEY WATER DEFINITIONS
 Fresh Water  — As used in this report, water sources 
with a total dissolved solids concentration of up to 
1,000 milligrams per liter.19 These sources can include 
drinking water, potable water and water used in 
agriculture. The definition can vary in accordance with 
local statutes and regulations and is defined within this 
document for reporting purposes.
 Nonfresh Water  — Water sources not meeting the 
definition of fresh water. These sources could include 
produced water and brackish groundwater.
 Produced Water  — Nonfresh water found in 
hydrocarbon formations that is brought to the surface 
during the oil and gas production process. Recycled Water  — Produced water that has been 
treated for reuse in subsequent operations, including 
well completions or secondary recovery.
 Secondary Recovery  — A process that involves 
injecting water or gas into producing formations to 
improve oil and gas recovery.
 Water Consumption  — Water volumes used in APA’s 
operations that are sourced from water withdrawals.
 Water Withdrawals  — Water volumes drawn from 
surface water, groundwater, seawater, municipal 
sources and producing formations.Water28
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
We begin by planning and designing our operations to minimize 
the risk of spills and to reduce any impact if they occur. During 
construction, we follow strict well and pipeline integrity 
standards, and we routinely assess the integrity of our 
equipment in accordance with recognized industry practices.
We use primary and secondary containment systems, including 
impermeable membranes under relevant equipment, when 
installing new facilities in onshore U.S. operations. We prioritize 
transporting produced water in permanent pipelines rather than 
trucks, to reduce the potential for spills.
We also train employees to identify and mitigate risks as part  
of their regular job duties, and we select contractors who do  
the same. As outlined in our environmental management system 
and available in our EHS documents  online, our contractors  
are required to have completed written training programs 
addressing waste handling, waste disposal and spill response. 
During drilling and completion activities, personnel actively 
monitor the operations to detect spills and stand ready to 
respond as quickly as possible if one should occur. Some 
production operations are also monitored continuously through 
automated on-site systems and remote monitoring centers that 
are staffed around the clock. In the event a spill does occur, field 
personnel respond promptly and follow a planned spill 
response protocol to determine the spill source and location 
and then act to minimize the potential for adverse impacts. We 
are also committed to following all applicable local and national 
cleanup and reporting requirements.Spill Mitigation
“In Suriname, we maintain our 
proactive approach  toward  
oil spill prevention through 
preparation, planning and 
training with key stakeholders.”
We are committed to reducing spills throughout the lifecycle of our operations.Water29
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
RESPONDING TO OFFSHORE SPILLS
While prevention is always our ultimate goal, we also  
continually expand our capability to respond to offshore spills  
if one should occur. We are members of multiple subsea 
intervention organizations that provide global access to a 
comprehensive package of emergency response services for 
the industry. 
As described in the Health and Safety section (see p. 62), we 
have memberships with Clean Gulf Associates, National 
Response Corporation, Wild Well Control and Oil Spill 
Response Limited. The latter two organizations provide us with 
global access to several capping stacks and the ability to 
mobilize two in the event of an incident. The capping stacks  
are stored in five international locations — the U.K., Brazil, 
Norway, Singapore and South Africa — and are ready for 
immediate use and onward transportation by sea and/or air  
in the event of an incident.
In Suriname, we maintain our proactive approach toward oil spill 
prevention through preparation, planning and training with key 
stakeholders. We have assisted the Surinamese government in 
the development of a National Oil Spill Contingency Plan and 
with our industry partners provided subject matter experts to 
train and educate government agencies.We evaluate oil spill response equipment providers and contract 
with them for specific spill response equipment based on our 
operations. We also pre-stage equipment in multiple locations 
for rapid response in the event of a spill.
Pre-staging locations include the APA Shore Base in 
Chaguaramas, Trinidad; aboard contracted offshore supply 
vessels and a contracted drill ship; and in the Port of 
Paramaribo, Suriname. Though our operations are entirely 
located in Suriname, we have also proactively coordinated with 
local and state agencies in neighboring Guyana, which shares a 
maritime border with Suriname and could potentially be 
impacted by a spill from our operations. We invite Guyanese 
officials to participate in our spill response training exercises to 
establish a cross-border communication protocol, and we 
communicate regularly with the Guyanese officials about spill 
preparedness.
In addition, APA Suriname has entered into a Mutual Aid 
Memorandum of Understanding with local exploration and 
production companies in the Suriname/Guyana area to make 
available the industry’s collective expertise and technology in oil 
spill preparedness and response.Water30
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportThe chemicals are added to facilitate the process of delivering 
the sand to the formation and generating the fractures, as well 
as to protect the well from damage during operations. We are 
taking many steps to use “greener” chemicals in our operations.
DISCLOSING CHEMICAL USAGE DATA
We have been an industry leader in transparency about our use 
of hydraulic fracturing additives.
We report 100% of our U.S. hydraulic fracturing activity to the 
FracFocus.org  website. The public disclosure of information  
on FracFocus.org provides a readily available data source that 
facilitates external analysis of the chemicals used in specific 
wells or areas. We conduct periodic reviews of FracFocus 
information and meet with vendors and subject matter experts 
to discuss options for identifying more sustainable chemical 
alternatives.
We also encourage service companies to provide environmentally 
responsible chemical additives at economically acceptable prices. For example, while we do not use BTEX (benzene, 
toluene, ethylbenzene, xylene) as a stand-alone chemical 
additive to hydraulic fracturing fluids, we work with our chemical 
vendors in a continuous improvement process to provide 
additives that minimize even trace amounts of added BTEX that 
may be present in a select few hydrocarbon-based additives.
CHEMICAL RISK REDUCTION STRATEGIES
We have also implemented an enhanced chemical management 
system to better standardize and control the chemical additives 
used in our operations. We have developed our own risk 
assessment framework through which we evaluate all chemicals 
before they are used in our hydraulic fracturing operations.  
This assessment framework focuses on screening out and/or 
reducing the use of chemicals that pose potential environmental 
hazards — for example, identifying additives that have risks  
of bioaccumulation and replacing them with more 
biodegradable alternatives.Greener Chemicals for 
Hydraulic Fracturing
Hydraulic fracturing fluid is typically composed of water, 
sand and a small amount of chemical additives.
30 APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportWater31
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report31 APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportBiodiversity              32
Seismicity and Oil and Gas Operations         35Waste Management        36
Additional 
Environmental 
Topics
In addition to our key focus areas of Air, Water and People+Communities, there are several other important issues 
we monitor and manage across our operations. These items include protecting biodiversity (U.N. Sustainable 
Development Goals No. 14 and No. 15), responsibly managing operational waste and mitigating the risk of induced 
seismicity (U.N. Sustainable Development Goal No. 9). Each of these issues are considered in our development and 
operational plans. This section includes a discussion of the issues and our proactive approach to managing them 
across our operations. 32
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportProtecting species and habitats from 
the potential effects of our operations 
is an important priority at APA. 
In operating areas with species and habitats known to be 
threatened or endangered, we conduct biodiversity assessments 
as part of our predevelopment planning processes. Based on 
the results from these biodiversity assessments, we compose 
our development plans to avoid impacts as much as possible 
and to mitigate for any impacts that are unavoidable. We also 
participate in collaborative efforts to conserve and promote 
biodiversity in our areas of operation.
PROTECTING SENSITIVE SPECIES   
ACROSS OUR OPERATIONS
We have participated in a collaborative conservation effort to 
protect the population and habitat of the lesser prairie chicken 
(LEPC), a species of prairie grouse endemic to the southern high 
plains of the U.S. These conservation efforts have focused on 
protecting, improving and restoring native habitat to help LEPC 
populations recover and thrive. Thanks in part to the success of 
this collaboration, the LEPC population has flourished in our 
areas of operation. We undertook a similar process in New Mexico and West Texas 
for the dunes sagebrush lizard. As with the LEPC, this species 
has since been removed from consideration for listing under the 
federal Endangered Species Act, due in part to voluntary 
conservation activities carried out by companies in the oil and 
natural gas industry, including APA.
Additionally, in the marine environments where we operate,  
we are using careful, location-specific management programs 
that incorporate the latest technology and tools to assess, 
mitigate and minimize the potential impacts of seismic 
operations on marine ecosystems. In Suriname, where we 
continue exploratory drilling activities, every drilling ship has  
on board a certified protected species observer (PSO) with the 
dedicated responsibility of looking out for whales, turtles and 
other sensitive marine species in the area when seismic 
activities are occurring. These PSOs can stop any seismic 
activity if they see a protected species in the area. So far, more 
than 8,600 square kilometers of exploratory marine seismic 
survey has been conducted in our offshore Suriname 
exploration activities with no observed impact to marine wildlife.
MANAGING LANDS WITH A CONSERVATION FOCUS
While we work to protect species and habitats on all the places 
where we explore for and produce oil and gas, we have a special 
focus on conserving threatened ecosystems on land we own, 
including on the Ucross Ranch in Wyoming and our landholdings 
in Louisiana.
Ucross Ranch: A Model of Sustainable   
Rangeland Management
The Ucross Ranch, located near the base of the Big Horn 
Mountains in Wyoming, is partially owned by Apache and 
managed by the Apache Foundation, a nonprofit subsidiary of 
Apache Corporation. Since 2005, the Foundation has managed 
the 20,000-acre ranch as a model for profitable and sustainable 
land-use management practices, protecting increasingly 
threatened grassland ecosystems. Ucross provides a unique 
opportunity to assess how more traditional year-round grazing 
practices, originally used in this area, compare to the Ranch’s 
current short-duration approach, in terms of erosion impacts on 
uplands and stream areas.Biodiversity
The sagebrush lizard 
is one of the many 
species that APA 
actively protects.

32 APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportAdditional Environmental Topics33
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportUtilizing a short-duration rotation grazing strategy for cattle  
has reduced bare ground on the Ranch’s rangelands from 
approximately 50% to less than 2% and significantly improved 
streambank stability, all while tripling the sustainable stocking 
rate for cattle. In large part due to these practices, the Ranch 
also provides excellent habitat for mule deer, white-tailed deer, 
pronghorn, sage grouse, sharp-tailed grouse, turkey, gray 
partridge and many species of waterfowl.
We regularly partner with academic researchers as well as state 
and federal natural resource management agencies to support 
research and conservation projects on the Ranch. For example, 
since 2012, the Apache Foundation has participated in the 
longest-running rangeland erosion study in the nation’s history, 
which is being conducted by Kansas State University.
Protecting and Restoring Gulf Coast Wetlands
Louisiana swamps and marshes are among the nation’s most 
at-risk wetlands. For several decades, the state has lost about 
20 square miles of wetlands per year, due to natural processes 
of subsidence, saltwater intrusion and shoreline erosion, as well 
as human activities such as levee construction along the 
Mississippi River and the dredging of navigation canals.
These wetlands serve as breeding grounds for thousands of 
species of aquatic life, land animals and birds, and provide 
habitat for more than 5 million migratory waterfowl each year. 
Wetlands act as a storm surge buffer during hurricanes and 
provide flood control by holding excess water during heavy 
rainfalls. Furthermore, they replenish aquifers and purify water 
by filtering pollutants and absorbing nutrients. On the Gulf Coast, wetlands also provide billions of dollars in revenue and 
thousands of jobs in oil and gas development, shipping, 
fisheries, ecotourism, recreation and other industries.
In Louisiana, through its wholly owned subsidiary Apache 
Louisiana Minerals LLC (ALM), APA owns and manages 
approximately 270,000 acres that are predominantly wetlands 
(ALM lands). We place a high priority on protecting the swamps 
and marshes of the Gulf Coast region and the species that call 
these areas home.
Partnering to Protect the Pecos  
River Watershed Ecosystems
In 2019, we joined the Pecos Watershed Conservation Initiative  
(PWCI) — a collaborative effort of eight corporate partners and 
biodiversity experts with the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation  
and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Natural Resources 
Conservation Service . The purpose of the initiative is to help protect 
the Pecos River watershed, which supports some of the most 
biodiverse arid and semiarid ecosystems in the world and is home to 
rare fish and aquatic species found nowhere else on Earth. Since its 
inception, in the fall of 2017, the PWCI has invested a total of $6.49 
million in 34 projects that address three priority strategies: habitat 
restoration and management of riparian and grassland systems, 
species intervention and species information.
 Pecos River
Additional Environmental Topics34
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
Our local employees work year-round to manage and protect 
the land. Activities include replanting native vegetation, building 
and operating water-control structures, combating invasive flora 
and fauna, and rebuilding shorelines to keep out saltier waters, 
which kill fragile marsh grasses.
• Giant Salvinia : We have worked with the Louisiana State 
University Ag Center over the years to develop weevil-rearing 
ponds in which the university grows weevils and determines 
optimal harvest times. Our employees monitor ALM lands for 
problematic infestations, participate in weevil harvest and 
disseminate crates of weevil-infested salvinia to ALM lessees, 
who help distribute the product into the wetlands. We also 
distribute weevils in the wetlands, and subsequently monitor 
and report on their activity.
• Water hyacinth and alligator weed : These invasive plants 
cover interior ponds and smother the growth of submerged 
aquatic vegetation — the preferred food source for waterfowl 
and marine organisms. They also prohibit or retard hydrologic 
flow, which results in flooding and drowning of wetland 
vegetation. ALM employees monitor infestations of this 
noxious vegetation and eradicate it when water control 
structures and drainage arteries are impacted by spraying 
from airboats and mudboats.
• Nutria : We participate in the Nutria Control Program 
administered by the Louisiana Coastal Protection and 
Restoration Authority through the Coastal Wetlands  
Planning, Protection and Restoration Act program. We 
encourage our trapping lessees to remove nutria from the 
landscape where this invasive rodent is feeding on wetland 
vegetation, to the point of causing “eat-outs” and converting 
marsh to open water.• Feral hogs : We encourage our hunting lessees to remove 
feral hogs, which root up the wetlands, potentially converting 
them to open water. In cooperation with the U.S. Department 
of Agriculture/Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, we 
also participate in removal programs of problem populations 
of feral hogs on our land.
In addition to restoring and protecting wetlands and marshes on 
our own lands, we work with local, state and federal government 
agencies, conservation organizations and other oil and gas 
companies on projects to protect and enhance wetlands.
During 2020, coastal Louisiana was directly impacted by the 
landfall of five named storms, several of which resulted in 
significant destruction of wetlands. Our employees were 
extraordinarily active with storm preparation to protect our 
assets and then on repairs to the property in the aftermath of 
flooding. ALM hired contractors to make additional repairs  
to shorelines, spoil banks and water control structures that  
were impacted by the hurricanes. ALM personnel also 
performed repairs on water control structures such as flap 
gates that had been ripped away. These repairs were designed 
to prevent encroachment of saline water from killing sensitive 
wetland vegetation.
We also continued our partnership with the Barataria-
Terrebonne National Estuary Program  (BTNEP) to build 
osprey nesting platforms on our property in Louisiana, donating 
money, employee time and equipment by taking BTNEP 
ornithologists out to the nesting platforms to monitor the 
ospreys’ activity. These efforts increased to 10 the total number 
of platforms built since we began our partnership with BTNEP  
in 2017.Additional Environmental Topics35
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportTo further ensure the protection   
of groundwater, the environment   
and local communities, APA plays   
an active role in industry research  
groups focused on studying   
“induced seismicity.” We have collaborated with leading universities and have funded 
research to better understand and model the fundamentals of 
induced seismic activity in the areas in which we operate. For 
example, we support and engage with the Center for Integrated 
Seismicity Research at the University of Texas’ Bureau of 
Economic Geology, as well as with the TexNet project, a seismic 
monitoring program.
We carefully review the potential for induced seismicity in our 
operating areas, based on an analysis of available geologic data, 
including known fault characteristics, states of stress and other 
parameters. To mitigate risk, our subject matter experts follow 
the most current research in the field, and we actively engage 
with leading experts to test ideas and interpretations.Seismicity and      
Oil and Gas Operations
35 APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportAdditional Environmental Topics36
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
Waste Management
Our waste management programs   
are designed around industry best 
practices geared toward the reduction 
of waste, protection of water 
resources, and minimizing hazards  
to employees. 
Our primary solid waste streams are drilling residuals and waste 
from our office buildings. We also address the presence of 
naturally occurring radioactive material (NORM) when waste 
generated in fields contains actionable levels of such materials.
DISPOSAL OF DRILLING WASTE
Drilling residuals are the mixture of mud, cuttings and drilling 
fluid residues that come out of a well during the drilling and 
completion process. We capture drilling residuals on-site and 
dispose of them based on composition and in accordance with 
applicable regulations in our operating areas.
Although regulatory disposal requirements may differ slightly  
by state and country, they are fairly uniform overall and include 
requirements for the classification and segregation of 
hazardous and nonhazardous waste, manifesting, 
transportation and disposal methods.
In our North Sea Forties Field, we use rig-based drill-cutting 
treatment and processing facilities to eliminate the volume of 
return materials that are shipped back to shore for treatment 
and disposal. This process reduces emission impacts as well  
as the potential for safety and spill incidents associated   
with transport.zero
waste
In 2020, our U.K. office achieved “zero 
waste to landfill” by implementing the 
waste hierarchy model: elimination, high 
recyclability rates and energy recovery.
Additional Environmental TopicsAiming for Zero Waste in the Office and the Field
The AIM for ZERO WASTE recycling program was developed to align our day-to-day office behavior with the company’s mission 
and Core Values, by encouraging employees to reduce the volume of waste sent to landfills.
37
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
We reinforce our commitment to waste reduction and 
recycling throughout the year. By leveraging the help of 
employee volunteers in our offices, we identify and 
implement waste reduction opportunities and encourage 
recycling at each of our office locations. 
We are committed to recycling electronic waste and 
do so annually.Office and field locations collect and recycle scrap metals 
on a regular basis.APA provides reusable beverage containers to all 
employees; however, during the pandemic this practice  
has been suspended to minimize exposure to COVID-19.  
We also offer reusable food containers in our dining  
facilities in Houston and Midland, Texas, to further reduce 
the polystyrene that ends up in landfills. We have also  
expanded the reusable container program available in our 
Houston dining facility, switched all remaining disposal 
containers to be eco-friendly and eliminated plastic bags.EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERS ECO-FRIENDLY DINING
ELECTRONIC WASTE SCRAP METALS
Additional Environmental Topics38
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
MANAGING NATURALLY OCCURRING  
RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL (NORM)
Trace amounts of NORM exist in subsurface rock formations 
and can be transported back to the surface as water-soluble 
ions in produced water.
In most cases, the trace amounts of radioactive ions pass 
through water-handling systems in concentrations below 
detectable limits, and only when aggregated or highly 
condensed do they present measurable radioactivity above 
natural background levels. These detectable radioactivity levels 
are typically very low and only pose a concern to workers if the 
material is ingested, inhaled or comes into prolonged direct 
contact. Nevertheless, we approach such risks with due caution 
and carefully adhere to regulations in the handling and disposal 
of NORM.When our operations generate produced water that may contain 
NORM, we carefully monitor water-handling operations to 
reduce accumulation of solids that can concentrate NORM. We 
survey production equipment for the presence of NORM and 
take appropriate measures to limit worker exposure if it is 
detected. Field employees are trained on the potential hazards 
of NORM and how to minimize their exposure.
Any equipment found to contain NORM is decontaminated by 
state-licensed service companies specializing in the 
management of NORM, whose workers are trained to manage 
the material in a manner that prevents exposure. The removed 
NORM is disposed of by the service company in accordance 
with applicable regulatory requirements to isolate the material 
from any future exposure.
38 APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportAdditional Environmental Topics39
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
Feature Stories
A Focused and Rapid Response to  
Minimize the Pandemic’s Impacts 40
Building a More Effective   
Organization  42 
   
Our People
Diversity and Inclusion  43
Hiring Locally  49
Recruitment, Development    
and Engagement  50Health and Safety
A Resilient Approach to   
Health and Safety                                   53
Our Performance                                           56
Contractor Partnership                                   60
Resilience and Risk                                    61 Community
Our Approach to Social Investing  
and  Community Engagement           63
Local Economic Impacts                       71
Understanding and Addressing   
Stakeholder Concerns                         72
Human Rights                                          77Communities
+People
Our third focus area is Communities+People. Our commitment to people begins with our employees — our most 
important resource and greatest competitive advantage. By building a diverse and inclusive workplace (U.N. 
Sustainable Development Goal No. 10), supporting employee development and well-being (U.N. Sustainable 
Development Goal No. 8), and providing a comprehensive Total Rewards package, we are investing to help 
achieve the full potential of our employees and our company. Through all of the challenges of 2020, our people 
proved resilient. We worked relentlessly to keep our workforce healthy and safe (U.N. Sustainable Development 
Goal No. 3), supported our communities (U.N. Sustainable Development Goal No. 17), maintained our 
commitment to environmental protection (U.N. Sustainable Development Goal No. 15) and help make our 
company stronger. Throughout the year we adapted to changing circumstances, pivoting our human capital 
programs to support employees through these extraordinary times. In our communities, our commitments 
include our work to be a good neighbor, to invest in the communities where we work, and to help develop the 
local economies through our investments and employment opportunities.
All employees of APA companies are employed by our subsidiary Apache Corporation.
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report 3940
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportOn a global scale, COVID-19 shrunk economies dramatically as 
demand for products and services collapsed. Social distancing 
became the new normal, and companies had to quickly find 
new ways to sustain their business while working remotely.
At the onset of the pandemic, we activated our crisis 
management response teams and business continuity plans  
to ensure the health and safety of personnel and to minimize 
operational impacts. Our efforts included the rapid 
implementation of robust health and safety protocols for our 
field operations; tracking country, state and local government 
guidelines, directives and regulations; and providing timely  
and transparent communications to global personnel and  
key stakeholders.NEW OPERATING PROTOCOLS
Our first priority was the health and safety of our workforce.  
We introduced significant operational changes to protect our 
employees and followed government recommendations and 
regulations. In March 2020, nearly all of our office staff made 
the transition to working from home as we closed offices across 
the globe. For field employees who perform critical on-site 
work, we implemented a range of safety protocols and 
processes, including new mandates for social distancing and 
wearing face coverings, in addition to standard personal 
protective equipment (PPE).
To identify symptoms early and reduce the risk of exposure to 
COVID-19, personnel underwent health screenings before 
coming onto our work sites. We also coordinated these efforts 
with contractors to ensure alignment with our standards. As 
more advanced diagnostic capabilities became available, we 
began providing rapid COVID-19 tests onsite, where applicable. 
In the U.K., we administered more than 10,000 COVID-19 tests 
before personnel traveled to offshore platforms. As a result of 
the protocols we implemented, we received an “exemplary” 
rating from the U.K. government for our management program 
and our protocols for offshore and office staff.
We sought to support personnel with a range of benefits, 
including covering the cost of testing and providing additional 
paid sick leave for quarantined individuals. We also reinforced 
the importance of health with access to telehealth benefits for 
both physical and mental well-being.
Across our operational locations, we implemented and/or 
supported a tracking and case management system to further 
protect and support our people, while minimizing the impact to 
the business. In the U.S., for example, we managed nearly 800 
cases of potential or confirmed exposure and illness (through 
mid-2021), providing individual support. We also coordinated 
efforts with a third-party medical provider to offer vaccinations A Focused and Rapid Response to 
Minimize the Pandemic’s Impacts
The pandemic brought long-lasting disruptions to our people, 
partners and the communities where we operate. 
New technologies allowed 
employees to remain 
connected while working 
from home during the 
COVID-19 pandemic.

40 APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report 40 APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportCommunities+People Feature Stories41
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
to employees and their dependents on a voluntary basis. Each 
operating area, in the U.S., U.K., Egypt and Suriname, used 
specific tracking systems, which were ultimately managed by 
the U.S. case management team. This oversight process 
provided for comprehensive reporting and analysis to key 
leadership to enable effective decision-making.
Thanks to the diligence, flexibility and focus of our workforce, 
the company experienced only a small number of COVID-19 
cases and incurred no material operational disruptions due to 
the pandemic.
The members of our crisis management team worked around 
the clock to support our employees and communities during the 
pandemic. Through it all, our personnel remained determined 
and flexible, while safely maintaining business continuity.SUPPORTING COMMUNITIES IN    
THEIR COVID-19 RESPONSE
From Midland to Cairo, Paramaribo to Aberdeen, we worked  
to address the most critical community needs brought on  
by the pandemic. Our contributions, which aligned with the  
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (see pp. 66-67), 
included:
• More than 500,000 PPE kits and equipment donated 
internationally to hospitals, health care units, quarantine 
centers and first responders (U.N. SDGs 3, 10, 11, 16).
• Over 20,000 meals provided to families in need in the U.S. 
and U.K. (U.N. SDGs 1, 2, 3).
• Funding for crisis support services and emergency shelters 
for women and families in the U.S. and Suriname (U.N. SDGs 
1, 3, 5).
• Virtual tools and internet access to support remote learning 
provided for 1,400 students in the Midland Independent 
School District in Texas (U.N. SDGs 4, 10, 11).
As community needs change and stakeholder engagement 
continues, we continue to adjust our charitable giving program. 
Our flexibility and responsiveness to the many challenges 
presented by the coronavirus pandemic offers an example of 
how APA partners with stakeholders and supports multifaceted 
efforts for sustainable development (further information on our 
community programs can be found on p. 63).20,000 +
meals provided to families in need in the U.S.
and U.K.Communities+People Feature Stories42
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportOur decentralized, regional model was replaced with a new, 
functional design that is focused on exploration, development 
and operations, with support groups providing shared corporate 
services to each focus area.
Initially conceived in 2019, the new organizational structure  
was designed to help facilitate operational efficiencies, cost 
reductions and increased capital returns to investors. 
Centralized decision-making and standardization across the 
business will also enable cleaner and safer operations.
The redesigned organization delivers more effective and 
disciplined planning and capital allocation, as individual projects 
are considered across the portfolio, not just within a region. 
Collaboration and alignment across businesses has improved 
and best practices are more easily shared from one area to 
another in a simplified organization. Meanwhile, new technology 
can be adopted more readily, since barriers between operating 
regions no longer exist.
As we put the new organization into effect, Russian and Saudi 
oil exports were flooding the market with excess supply, and 
COVID-19 was rapidly emerging as a significant threat to  
global demand. Our new structure helped us react to these 
situations more effectively and further reduce costs. The 
corporate redesign initially targeted annual savings of at least 
$150 million. When fully implemented at the end of 2020, 
annual cost savings were more than $400 million.
Unfortunately, part of this cost reduction included making  
the difficult but necessary decision to reduce the size of the 
workforce. Approximately 640 APA employees globally were 
impacted by involuntary separation in 2020. We provided these 
employees with severance packages that included company-
paid benefits and outplacement services. In addition to the 
involuntary separations, APA experienced a voluntary workforce 
turnover rate of approximately 240 employees, with 
approximately half of those being voluntary retirements.While the global economic outlook has improved since 
COVID-19 vaccine distribution began, the need for fiscal 
discipline and cleaner operations remains. We continue to be 
committed to investing in our employees, communities and  
the environment, while delivering long-term value to our 
shareholders and other stakeholders. Thanks to our new 
organization, we are better prepared than ever to deliver on  
that commitment.Building a More      
Effective Organization 
In 2020, we completed a significant corporate redesign, transforming the company 
into a more centralized, streamlined and collaborative organization that is better 
prepared to address the challenges facing the energy industry in the years ahead. 
$400 MM
annual cost savings after our corporate redesign 
was fully implemented at the end of 2020.Communities+People Feature Stories43
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportAs our industry responds to the changing energy landscape, we 
need increased diversity and innovative ideas and perspectives 
more than ever. We are committed to being a workplace where 
all employees are valued and can thrive with a sense of 
belonging, not just as employees, but as people.
In 2020, we developed a dedicated position focused on D&I 
issues to lead our efforts. We also partnered with a well-
respected D&I consultant to assess our current work and 
performance. With the insights gathered, we developed a D&I 
strategy to identify areas of improvement, establish goals, 
introduce new initiatives to support our workforce, and create 
accountability to drive our progress going forward.
D&I STRATEGY
As a part of developing our strategy, we conducted focus 
groups to hear our employees’ experiences and better 
understand our D&I strengths and opportunities. With this 
feedback in mind, we evaluated many areas of our workforce 
strategy, including recruiting, talent management, learning and 
development, employee engagement, supply chain and 
community partnership efforts. This enabled us to identify and 
put into action changes and opportunities that would allow for 
increased workplace diversity.We know that data can drive progress and accountability. That’s 
why D&I dashboards are a key part of our approach to help us 
assess the diversity of our workforce. By tracking gender and 
ethnic diversity across management, new hires and promotions, 
we can hold ourselves accountable and measure progress as 
we implement processes to advance D&I (see comparable  
Equal Employment Opportunity, or EEO-1, reported data on  
pp. 46-47 and in the Appendix on p. 95). We also incorporate a 
D&I goal in our annual incentive compensation program to build 
diversity strategically across our organization.
In addition to our proactive D&I efforts, we strongly enforce  
our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics . The Code requires 
that we conduct business, including employment practices, in 
accordance with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and 
government requirements. APA is an equal opportunity 
employer. All employment decisions are made without regard  
to race, color, religion, sex, familial status, marital status, sexual 
orientation, genetic information, gender identity, national origin, 
age, veteran status, disability or any other status protected by 
applicable federal, state or local law. These standards support 
our commitment to meet or exceed the requirements of 
applicable laws and regulations in the countries where we 
operate. Any form of discrimination by or toward employees, 
contractors, suppliers or customers in our workplace is   
strictly prohibited.
ATTRACTING DIVERSE CANDIDATES
Recruiting talent from historically underrepresented groups is 
an important element of our D&I efforts. We ensure that our 
human resources (HR) professionals and hiring managers meet 
our internal standards for identifying and hiring diverse talent. 
Although recruiting and hiring was limited in 2020, we 
continued to pursue a diverse, qualified pool of candidates for 
open positions.
Our recruiting approach and performance are regularly  
reviewed to ensure our process is fair and reflective of a diverse 
and inclusive workforce. Through our partnership with Meyer 
Consulting Group, an independent firm that specializes in 
workforce diversity, our HR team reviews all recruiting and 
applicant data to ensure alignment with our overall Affirmative 
Action Plan and pay equity among our new hires.Diversity and Inclusion
We recognize diversity and inclusion (D&I) as vital to our long-term success. 
A more diverse workforce and an inclusive environment where all our 
people feel they can share their ideas makes everyone stronger.
Communities+People Our People44
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportENSURING PAY EQUITY
During each annual compensation program planning cycle,  
we conduct a wage gap analysis to identify differences in pay. 
Generally, differences are related to seniority, experience, 
performance or other legitimate business reasons. When pay 
differences cannot be explained by these reasonable causes, 
we undertake a deeper review and correct wage gaps, to ensure 
they do not correlate with gender, ethnic or racial differences.
In addition to having pay bands for specific jobs, to ensure 
equitable pay for substantially similar work, we have a process 
to make pay systems and decisions more transparent and 
objective. These processes include:
• Objective metrics used to measure performance, which are 
directly linked to compensation.
• Compensation guidelines, based on defined pay ranges, 
performance and positions, to ensure consistency in 
compensation. 
• Training for all compensation decision-makers regarding  
the importance of collecting objective metrics, utilizing 
updated compensation systems and focusing on consistent 
compensation for jobs rather than compensation  
increase percentages.
D&I TRAINING
In 2020, we launched mandatory companywide D&I training  
for all our leaders with direct reports, and assigned it as 
recommended training for all employees. The training focused 
on unconscious bias, allyship, mitigating micro-aggressions, 
leveraging micro-affirmations, inclusive leadership and the 
benefits of diversity, inclusion and belonging. Less than 12 
months after we launched the program, 99% of required 
employees have completed the training.To help make our commitment to D&I visible companywide,  
we have launched a range of diversity-related information 
campaigns. These include a D&I site on our intranet that 
provides insights into our strategy and initiatives, as well as 
information on how to join or initiate Employee Resource 
Groups (described on p. 45).
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION COUNCIL
Our workforce is a global community, one that spans many 
regions around the world and encompasses the unique 
characteristics of the people who live in these areas. In 2019, 
we established the Global Community to support our overall 
D&I efforts. In 2020, we reimagined this community. This 
diverse group comprises members that represent the 
company’s gender, ethnic, geographical and functional diversity, 
and includes employees from different management levels and 
field and corporate positions. Renamed the Diversity & 
Inclusion Council, this team champions our D&I culture by 
providing employee perspectives, ideas and feedback on our 
D&I initiatives, companywide policies and HR processes.
EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS
We support a range of Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) 
focused on advancing inclusion, belonging and understanding 
for employees across our organization. Networking, professional 
development and camaraderie are just some of the many 
benefits of our three ERGs: the Women’s Network, Black 
Professionals Network and the newly formed Pride Network.
ERGs, which are open to all employees, help build employee 
connections, support our community outreach programs, and 
foster career development. In the coming years, we will support 
employees as they form additional ERGs. 
Members of our Black Professionals 
Network celebrate Juneteenth, which 
became a U.S. national holiday in 2021. 
44 APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportCommunities+People Our People45
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report 
BLACK PROFESSIONALS NETWORK 
The Apache Black Professionals Network (ABPN) is committed to promoting a corporate 
environment where Black employees thrive, both professionally and personally, with a sense of 
purpose, support and community involvement. To achieve this, ABPN facilitates continuing 
education, professional and personal growth, mentorship, networking and community impact for 
Black professionals and allies. Launched in 2020, ABPN has grown from 55 members to 183 
members as of May 2021.
In 2020, ABPN focused on cultural awareness, career growth, community engagement 
and advocacy. Given the restrictions imposed by the pandemic, ABPN hosted virtual 
social networking events with its members to discuss goals and needs and conducted 
inspirational career growth discussions featuring external speakers.
The ERG also held a live, virtual Q&A event with our CEO, John Christmann, which 
focused on our efforts to increase D&I. Throughout the year, ABPN held similar events 
with several members of our Executive Leadership team.
ABPN is deeply committed to supporting community youth with resources and 
opportunities. In 2021, ABPN plans to provide scholarships to support talented, 
underprivileged students at Historically Black Colleges and Universities. Each year,  
ABPN members will select qualified students for a financial aid assistance grant for the 
upcoming academic year. ABPN also runs community engagement initiatives to support 
the Kids Meals charity, which focuses on preventing local child hunger and supports 
children’s literacy. In 2020, for example, the group provided 150 books to students of  
Key Middle School, located in an underserved community in Houston.
WOMEN’S NETWORK 
The Apache Women’s Network (AWN) focuses on providing its members with learning programs, 
networking and community engagement opportunities to support our female workforce. In 2020, 
AWN held several virtual events to provide support through the COVID-19 crisis and to share 
career development guidance. AWN also launched a member survey to better understand the 
stressors affecting our female workforce. Based on the survey results, AWN focused its programing 
on exploring issues such as mental and physical health and navigating return to work and schools. To celebrate International 
Women’s Day, AWN hosted a panel discussion with APA’s female Board members in which they discussed work achievements, 
career development advice, and lessons learned throughout their extraordinary professional journeys.
For five years, AWN has successfully run a U.S.-based mentoring program for employees. In 2020, AWN partnered with APA’s new 
Diversity & Inclusion team to scale the program into a companywide global initiative. After the handoff, AWN will continue to remain 
involved in the APA Mentorship Program, providing guidance and support as the program continues to grow and engage more 
employees across the organization.
PRIDE NETWORK
The Apache Pride Network focuses on creating a safe space for LGBTQ+ employees and allies, 
where members can support and learn from each other, foster equality, and provide a sense of 
belonging. The ERG was launched in June 2021 to coincide with Pride Month and to commemorate 
the Stonewall Riots in 1969. In the coming year, this group will support increasing inclusion and 
belonging by promoting the equality of all people, facilitating networking and mentorship, and 
supporting symbiotic charities and organizations.
Employee Resource GroupsCommunities+People Our People46
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
Workforce Demographics*
GLOBAL GENDER MIX
*  Our workforce demographics are reported by employees’ work location as of December 31, 2020. They are based on employee self-identification, 
and subject to change based on employee assignment. All APA employees are employed by our subsidiary Apache Corporation. This data is 
comparable to Equal Employment Opportunity, or EEO-1, reported data.1,430 
U.S.598
U.K.
7
SURINAME237
EGYPTTotal Employees =  2,272  
U.S. ETHNICITY MIX 
27% female 73% maleU.S.
12% female 88% maleU.K.
17% female 83% maleEgypt
14% female 86% maleSurinameGlobal
22.1%  Female 
77.9%  MaleU.S.
66.9%  White
18.6%  Hispanic
6.8%  Asian
6.0%  Black
1.7%  Other
33%
of U.S. employees self-identify 
as ethnic minority.TOTAL EMPLOYEES BY COUNTRYCommunities+People Our People47
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportWorkforce Demographics (Continued)
U.S. leadership 
breakdown
77.8%  White
11.5%  Hispanic
6.3%  Asian
3.0%  Black
1.4%  OtherLEADERSHIP DIVERSITY (leadership defined as supervisor level or equivalent and above)
22.2%
of U.S. leadership self-identifies as an ethnic minority.
17.6 %
of global leadership self-identifies as female.
GLOBAL AGE BREAKDOWN
Field vs Office
45.5%  Field personnel
54.5%  Office personnelGLOBAL FIELD/OFFICE DEMOGRAPHICS
33.7% racial/ethnic minoritiesEthnicity mix of U.S. office personnel37.4% female 62.6% maleGlobal gender mix of office personnel
3.7% female 96.3% maleGlobal gender mix of field personnel
31.9% racial/ethnic minoritiesEthnicity mix of U.S. field personnel9.9%  Age: 29 and under
60.5%  Age: 30-50
29.6%  Age: 51 and overGlobalCommunities+People Our People48
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
Expanding Diversity in     
STEM Education and Careers
Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) are 
essential skills we need in our workforce. Our company employs 
a diverse group of leaders in STEM positions across our global 
operations. For example, employees from traditionally 
underrepresented groups hold senior STEM leadership roles in 
our Asset Management; Engineering; Drilling and Completions; 
Operations Excellence; Environment, Health and Safety (EHS); 
and Aviation departments.
However, there is more work to be done. Expanding the pipeline 
of diverse candidates in these fields is key for advancing 
diversity and inclusion at our company and across our industry, 
and we are working to encourage women and other traditionally 
underrepresented groups to pursue STEM careers.
In January 2021, APA announced a new multiyear partnership 
with the Posse Foundation , which aims to increase diversity at 
top colleges and universities and in postgraduate leadership positions. The primary goals of the Posse Foundation are to 
expand the pool from which top colleges and universities recruit 
outstanding young leaders, and to help colleges and universities 
build more diverse, interactive and welcoming campus 
environments for students from all backgrounds. In partnership 
with Posse Houston, we support Posse Scholars in their 
academic studies and post-graduation pursuits, so that 
students are empowered to take on leadership positions in the 
workforce and in their communities.
In addition, through a partnership with the American Petroleum 
Institute and Discovery Education, APA supports the STEM 
Careers Coalition , which promotes STEM education and 
focuses on “tackling the lack of diversity and unequal access to 
opportunity in the STEM workforce pipeline.”
Darius Pitre credits The 
Posse Foundation with 
helping him secure his dream 
job as a production engineer 
at Apache Corporation.

Photo by Posse FoundationCASE STUDY
48 APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportCommunities+People Our People49
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
We place a high priority on investing  
in the areas where we operate, which 
includes the practice of hiring and 
developing local employees. 
Local hiring allows us to make meaningful economic 
contributions to these communities, especially in areas where 
professional jobs can otherwise be scarce. 
In our operations outside the U.S., we strive to draw the majority 
of our workforce from the local host country. In locations with 
mature oil and natural gas basins, where we find a workforce 
with deep expertise in the industry, such as the North Sea, this 
task has been relatively easy. However, in other locations, such 
as Egypt and Suriname, professionals with advanced technical 
skills are not always immediately available among the local 
workforce, and additional actions are required.
One example of these efforts is our work in Egypt. We first 
began operating in Egypt more than 20 years ago, through a 
joint venture with the Egyptian General Petroleum Company. 
Our agreement included requirements for the hiring of 
nationals. At that time, local candidates for petroleum 
engineering and geological roles were limited. Initially, we  
hired oil and gas experts from abroad, but we helped to build 
local expertise by collaborating with Egyptian universities to 
develop technical coursework that prepared students to work  
in the industry.
Today, we are continuing to make progress on our efforts to hire 
Egyptian nationals who have industry experience. Historically, 
Egyptian petroleum engineers and geologists have sought work 
opportunities across the Middle East and North Africa to 
broaden their technical knowledge base. To capitalize on this, 
we recently established partnerships with firms that are helping to recruit Egyptian nationals working abroad in engineering and 
geological jobs who would like to return to their home country.
Hydrocarbon exploration and production is the single largest 
industry in the country, representing approximately 15% of the 
total GDP. As the industry and need for technical skills continue 
to grow, the pool of experienced Egyptian oil and gas technical 
professionals has grown, and we continue to expand the 
number of local Egyptians in our workforce.
In Suriname, we are focused on building local employment 
capacity to support future oil production. We ultimately want to 
fill jobs with local members of the Surinamese population.
See the Community section (pp. 68-70) for more on how we are 
investing in local communities in Suriname and Egypt. Hiring Locally
“Local hiring allows us to make meaningful economic 
contributions  to these communities, especially in areas 
where professional jobs can otherwise be scarce.”Communities+People Our People50
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
EMPLOYEE RECRUITMENT
We focus our recruiting efforts primarily on local colleges and 
universities and develop additional partnerships focused on 
recruiting diverse candidates (see p. 43). We also host career 
exploration days, which provide undergraduate and graduate 
candidates an opportunity to connect one-on-one with our 
employees from the students’ chosen disciplines.
Beginning in 2020, we updated our recruiting platform and 
integrated it into our existing HR systems for a more effective 
recruitment and onboarding process. Using new applicant 
tracking software, search engine optimization and XML feeds, 
our job postings reach more diverse groups. As a result, we 
have been able to locate a broader pool of candidates interested 
in applying for our open positions.
We believe that referrals from our current employees are one of 
our best recruiting tools. By enabling existing employees to refer 
and participate in the candidate identification process, we are 
able to secure candidates who exhibit our Core Values.TOTAL REWARDS COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS
Our Total Rewards approach to compensation and benefits  
is designed to attract, retain and reward top talent. As part of 
our compensation philosophy, we offer and maintain a robust 
total compensation package that includes a competitive base 
salary, industry-leading benefits and performance-driven 
incentives. We believe that focusing on both short-term and 
long-term incentives provides fair and competitive 
compensation and aligns employee and shareholder interests. 
Our incentive compensation programs also reward company 
and individual performance by integrating with our Operations, 
Financial, Environmental, Social and Governance, and 
workforce safety initiatives.
In addition to cash and equity compensation, we provide 
employee benefits that cultivate a family-friendly work 
environment and focus on our employees’ overall wellness.  
Our robust benefits platform ranks among the best in our 
industry peer group and includes comprehensive health care 
and retirement benefits, as well as locally relevant  
well-being benefits.Recruitment, Development     
and Engagement
We work hard to bring the best people to the job. Building and supporting our 
team is a central way we deliver top performance and relentless improvement.Communities+People Our People51
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
2020 LEARNING BY THE NUMBERS
 713
unique course offerings
13,732+
hours of training
29,916
course completions
A few examples of recent enhancements in our benefit offerings 
for employees include:
• Our U.S. family leave policies include paid time off for all new 
parents, including adoptive and surrogate parents, and leave 
for employees providing elder care.
• Mental health benefits are available to all U.S.-based 
employees and eligible family members, including 16 free 
sessions with a mental health therapist or coach each year.
• A global wellness platform encourages and promotes 
physical, financial, social and emotional well-being.
LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT 
Our approach to learning and development focuses on helping 
our employees meet their professional goals and aligning 
individual performance with company objectives. In 2020, we 
redesigned and simplified our process to support more 
effective goal development, promote transparency on 
performance, and better link pay to performance.
We support employees by providing opportunities for ongoing 
learning across technical, compliance, business and personal 
development areas. Our competency-based approach focuses 
on building the knowledge and skills needed to perform; 
supporting employees’ professional goals; and developing 
leadership, communication and collaboration skills.
In 2020, we updated our competency framework to include 
three focus areas:
• Core skills  include communication, results, collaboration and 
culture.
• Leadership skills  include servant leadership, strategic 
mindset, change leadership and leading effective teams.
• Technical skills  vary by function.
           Mentorship Program
In 2020, we developed a companywide Mentorship Program. Launched in April 2021, 
this program provides mentors an opportunity to guide their mentees in developing 
goals, core leadership skills and accessing networking opportunities.Communities+People Our People52
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportSUCCESSION PLANNING
Identifying and preparing future leaders is an important element 
of employee development and succession planning. Our HR 
team works with leadership to identify internal successors for 
all vice president and higher-level positions. We then focus on 
their development so that they acquire the hard and soft skills 
needed to excel in a growing leadership role, which includes 
integrating key learning goals and competencies into their 
individualized ongoing development plans.
During the pandemic, we expanded the use of online learning 
and development training to support people working remotely. 
For example, we offered leadership training focused on helping 
people lead remote teams. We encouraged employees to 
participate in existing and new learning opportunities to 
continue enhancing their knowledge and skills during the 
pandemic. We also sent out weekly updates on relevant topics, 
such as the transition to working from home; thriving during 
times of change; managing time while working remotely; and 
using Microsoft Teams.
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT 
Engaging employees in our corporate mission and values is 
critical to enhancing safety and environmental performance, 
boosting morale, improving job satisfaction and advancing our 
success as a company.
We build employee engagement in several ways. This includes 
providing growth opportunities, leadership development, 
community outreach opportunities and creating a fair, inclusive 
work environment. The foundation of our employee engagement 
strategy is establishing trust in our mission and leadership 
through frequent, transparent and honest communication. For 
example, we hold quarterly town hall meetings hosted by the 
CEO and president that address APA’s progress on business 
goals and answer questions from employees around the globe. 
We also host regular meetings with our vice president of 
investor relations, which provide employees an opportunity to 
hear and ask questions regarding financial markets, APA’s stock 
performance and the market performance of our industry 
peers. We also invite employees to participate in live presentations broadcast to global offices that feature external 
speakers discussing relevant topics in the energy industry.  
Understanding employees’ perspectives is central to our 
engagement efforts. In 2020, we updated our employee 
engagement survey, introducing an in-house Employee 
Sentiment Survey. This focused on gaining employee feedback 
on our transition to a remote working model and assessing our 
employees’ views about the companywide restructuring carried 
out in 2020. Our leadership team leveraged the results to 
formulate our return-to-office strategy, identify successes and 
mitigate gaps in our restructuring, and to explore actions for 
increased employee engagement.
We also provide employees with volunteer service opportunities 
in collaboration with our Community Partnerships program. We 
look for meaningful volunteer opportunities that instill a sense 
of pride, ownership and accomplishment for employees in their 
communities. See pp. 63-65 for more on our volunteer and
community investment initiatives.EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
GROWTH 
OPPORTUNITIESLEADERSHIP 
DEVELOPMENTCREATING A FAIR, INCLUSIVE 
WORK ENVIRONMENTCOMMUNITY 
OUTREACH
Communities+People Our People53
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
We achieve this through the application of our Core Values, 
standards and operating practices. Our health and safety 
commitment is a shared requirement of our global workforce, 
including contractors, and we expect all partners across our 
entire value chain to support it.
BUILDING A LASTING SAFETY CULTURE —    
OUR SAFETY PHILOSOPHY
We foster a safety culture that empowers our   
workforce to stop any task if conditions or behaviors are 
deemed unsafe. We strive to be incident-free across our global 
operations every day, with the help of visible and engaged 
leadership, by setting clear expectations and making safety 
personal for all employees and contractors.
We believe that empowering the voice of our workforce is 
foundational to performance improvements. Towards this end, our behavior-based safety program, AIM for ZERO, provides 
direct access for all workers to submit ideas, suggestions or 
observations for improvement or prevention. In 2020, over 
11,000 submissions were logged across our global operations 
through AIM for ZERO submission tools. 
Audits and inspections are conducted across all our operating 
areas. In the North Sea, Advanced Safety Audits (ASAs) are 
completed routinely on our offshore facilities. As with the AIM 
for ZERO program, these audits focus on observations made at 
the conclusion of a specific task. Often, actions will be observed 
to help identify areas of concern or potential improvements to 
both safety and performance. Last year, over 2,600 ASAs were 
completed on our offshore platforms in the North Sea.
In our U.S. operations, tools have been developed to allow for 
mobile on-site inspections by supervisors. These inspections 
leverage mobile technology within our internal safety database A Resilient Approach 
to Health and Safety
We are committed to preserving the health and safety of our 
employees, contractors, and the communities where we operate. 
Adapting to the Global Pandemic
The COVID-19 pandemic has led to numerous changes in how we conduct our business 
(as discussed on pp. 40-41), including how we support employee health and safety. It 
has introduced a completely new set of challenges to overcome to keep our workforce 
safe while maintaining operational continuity. As always, even faced with seemingly 
insurmountable challenges, our employees rose to the task and succeeded in 
developing and implementing new ways to keep one another healthy and 
safe. The global crisis has illustrated the resounding ability of our team 
to adapt to circumstances and make the necessary adjustments to 
ensure that worker safety and health remain a top priority.
53 APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportCommunities+People Health and Safety54
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
to complete pre-job inspections and rig-up assessments on the 
fly. This program was implemented in early 2021, and we are 
working to replicate this capability throughout our operations. 
Additionally, site inspections are regularly conducted in Egypt.
To further empower our employees, we listen to and track  
their ideas through an annual safety culture survey, which  
we use to guide our safety strategy. This anonymous survey  
was first introduced in the spring of 2020. Its purpose is to 
solicit feedback from employees regarding key safety and 
environmental aspects of company operations. Survey 
questions are focused on and reflect management’s 
commitment to overall health and safety of the workforce, 
environmental stewardship and the prioritization of APA’s 
environmental, social and governance (ESG) initiatives. As an 
example, based on feedback received from the 2020 survey, 
the implementation of a “safety moment” at the beginning of  
all employee meetings — including virtual meetings — was 
adopted and encouraged by leadership. The second iteration  
of the safety survey was conducted in 2021, and included an 
additional opportunity for open-ended responses.Mindset of the workforce —
culture of safety and 
environmental responsibility
Expectations of 
the workforceWORK RULES
What we do mattersHSSE CULTURAL 
BEHAVIORAIM
FOR
ZEROCommunities+People Health and Safety55
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportHierarchy of Controls
Physically remove  the hazard
Replace  the hazard
Isolate  people from the hazard
Change  the way people work
Protect  the worker with Personal Protective EquipmentPUTTING OUR PHILOSOPHY INTO ACTION 
We follow a hierarchy of controls to minimize and mitigate 
exposures to occupational hazards. Based on this approach,  
we focus first on eliminating hazards — the most effective way 
to avoid incidents — and then move through hazard mitigation 
strategies (see the hierarchy we follow, which is based on 
NIOSH, the National Institute for Occupational Safety and 
Health recommendations, in the graphic below). We identify, 
assess and manage hazards during facility design, construction, 
modification and operation. Hazard assessment findings and 
recommendations are reviewed by our safety staff, and the 
results are communicated to relevant operational personnel.
Our workforce strives to identify, assess, eliminate or mitigate 
risks in our operations and work activities by effective planning, 
control of work, and incident management. This is demonstrated 
through actionable observations, task-based risk assessments, 
semi-annual operational risk reviews, operationally led root-
cause analyses and ultimately, knowledge sharing of incident 
learnings. We use field-focused efforts centered on leading 
indicators to help identify opportunities for continuous 
improvement. Examples include auditing control of work 
processes, digital safety inspections, trend analysis and timely 
feedback to the workforce. Incident alerts are delivered to staff 
and contractors as appropriate to alert the teams to changes in operating conditions or in areas where a control may have 
failed; these alerts are also tracked and maintained on an 
internal “Learning From Incidents” webpage.
Additionally, controls and management systems are continually 
reviewed, iterated and improved upon to drive continuous 
improvements in performance. For example, Apache Egypt and 
its joint venture companies, Khalda Petroleum Company and 
Qarun Petroleum Company, introduced, launched and 
implemented 5 new policies, 34 EHS procedures, and 33 safe 
working instructions in 2020.
We are currently developing updates to our existing management 
system with an enhanced global Operating Management System 
(OMS), which is a systemic, standardized and structured 
approach to achieve our safety and risk management objectives 
across our various operated assets. The OMS will allow us to 
have a greater degree of control over work and risk 
identification, including:
• Establishing goals and key performance indicators
• Enhanced job safety analysis and permits to work
• Prioritization of high-risk and non-routine work
• Deeper review of associated procedural controls   
and mitigations
• Ensuring task competencies of contractors
• Maximizing uptime through maintenance, integrity and  
testing activities
• Effectively managing changes
• Continually improving the OMS
Additional information on our risk assessment process can be 
found on p. 61.14%
of our production activities are audited by independent 
third parties against various management system 
standards and recommended practices, using protocols 
such as the Center for Offshore Safety (COS-1-01).
ELIMINATION
PPEADMINISTRATIVE
CONTROLSENGINEERING
CONTROLSMost 
effective
Least
effectiveSUBSTITUTION
Communities+People Health and Safety56
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportWe monitor leading and lagging 
metrics of our performance to 
measure the effectiveness of our 
proactive and preventative health   
and safety programs.
Our data management portal helps standardize the way we 
track leading and lagging indicators, manage incidents,  
facilitate the management of change processes, and monitor 
stakeholder communications. This system helps us better 
identify and communicate root causes and incorporate lessons 
learned from incidents so that we can mitigate and — where 
possible — eliminate the conditions that caused them across  
our operations.
In 2019, we introduced a Severe Injury and Fatality (SIF) metric 
to increase corporate visibility and tracking of incidents that 
result in a fatal or life-altering injury or illness. Life-altering 
injuries or illnesses result in permanent or significant loss of a 
body part, organ function or otherwise permanently change or 
disable that person’s normal life activity. To set a 2020 target, 
we calculated the SIF average for the previous three years and 
reduced the number by 30%. In 2020, our year-end SIF of 0.04 
met this target.
The graph at the right shows the historical five-year SIF rate for 
our workforce. In 2020, there were eight SIF incidents and, 
regrettably, three of those were fatalities in Egypt. Our 
leadership, including the 
Board of Directors, are 
notified of any fatality 
within the operations. All 
serious incidents and 
fatalities are investigated, 
and lessons learned are 
shared across the 
organization to mitigate 
any future recurrence.Our Performance
Workforce Severe Injury and Fatality Rate
SIF rate is calculated by multiplying the total number of SIF events by 200,000 
hours, then dividing by the total hours worked. SIF events considered in this rate 
are those that result in a fatal or life-altering injury or illness.2016 2017 2018 2019 20200.068
0.056 0.055
0.0340.040
41%
reduction in Severe Injury and 
Fatality (SIF) events from 2019 
to 2020.Communities+People Health and Safety57
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report2016 2018 2017 2019 2020While 2020 was a year full of challenges, including COVID-19 
and low commodity prices brought on by the OPEC+ price war, 
we maintained our focus on safety. Although we did experience 
increases in each of our workforce safety performance metrics, 
the overall number of incidents was down. The increased rate 
metrics are reflective of our reduced activity in 2020, with 
overall workforce labor hours down more than 33% from the 
prior three-year average (see Key Performance Data table on  
p. 94). Even with the increased incident rates in 2020, our 
safety performance metrics continue to reflect long-term 
improvement in all three of our primary incident rate metrics: 
Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR), Days Away, Restricted, or 
Transferred (DART) and Vehicle Incident Rate (VIR). Although 
our Workforce TRIR and Workforce DART had increases in 
2020, both rates have declined overall since 2016. The VIR 
increased 5% when compared to 2019, but that rate has 
decreased by 41% since 2016. 
In response to the uptick in our key safety metrics, during our 
2020 midyear review with cross-functional leadership we 
re-evaluated and enhanced our approach to incident 
management.Specific actions taken included:
• Constructive feedback of incident investigations
• Deeper understanding of root causes 
• More effective preventive and corrective actions
• More effective sharing of lessons learned
Furthermore, in partnership with other functional groups, we 
took additional measures including:
• Revitalized EHS safety committee meetings
• Refocused weekly EHS performance dashboard 
• Conducted monthly “all-employee” EHS leadership town halls
• Launched a global hand and finger injury prevention 
campaign
• Conducted bi-weekly AIM for ZERO review meetings  0.19
 0.69
 0.52
 0.24
 0.28
 0.27 0.67 
 0.800.56
0.65
0.58 
0.48  0.09 
0.54 
0.41  1.24 1.29 1.41
 0.79  0.83 Vehicle Incident Rate
The VIR is calculated by multiplying the total 
number of recordable vehicle incidents by  
1 million miles, then dividing by the total  
miles driven.**Days Away, Restricted  
or Transferred Rate
The DART rate is calculated by multiplying the total 
number of DART injuries by 200,000 hours, then 
dividing by the total hours worked.* DART cases 
considered in this rate are those work-related injuries 
and illnesses that lead to an employee missing work, 
requiring restrictions in work duties or requiring a 
transfer from regular work duties. The TRIR is calculated by multiplying the total 
number of recordable injuries by 200,000 hours, 
then dividing by the total hours worked.* The TRIR 
measures the rate of work-related injuries and 
illnesses that result in medical treatment beyond 
first aid. Medical treatment includes, among other 
things, the use of prescription medication to 
relieve inflammation or ease discomfort. 2016 2016 2018 2018 2017 2017 2019 2019 2020 2020
    Employees            Contractors          Workforce     Employees            Contractors          WorkforceTotal Recordable Incident Rate
* Apache employees and contractors worked more than 53 million hours in 2019. 
** Includes miles driven by Apache employees.
 0.13 0.33 0.17
 0.40 0.09
 0.37
 0.27
 0.10
 0.28
 0.28 0.23
 0.23 0.17  0.07
 0.21Communities+People Health and Safety58
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
As a result of these 
initiatives, we recognized 
a 37% reduction in 
workforce recordable 
injuries in the second half 
of 2020 compared with 
the first half. We provide 
weekly updates on our 
health and safety metrics 
to managers at every level 
within the company, and 
also at quarterly 
employee town halls, meetings of the ESG Management 
Committee and at Board meetings. Using leading indicators to 
stay abreast of our current performance allows us to make more 
effective course corrections throughout the year if our 
performance falls out of sync with our program goals. 
Expectations for managers’ engagement in health and safety 
can be found here .
LEVERAGING TECHNOLOGY
In 2020, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we shifted  
the way we use technology to replicate in-person interactions. 
We implemented a variety of virtual platforms across our 
business to support cross-functional collaboration, training 
and team meetings. In addition, many of these tools were 
utilized to optimize the incident management process, conduct 
surveys, complete audits and inspections, and provide real-time 
trend analysis.HEALTH AND SAFETY TRAINING AND EDUCATION 
Training and development are foundational to our EHS 
management system. Our online training platform, which is 
incorporated into our in-house training system (see p. 51),  
gives employees easy access to safety-related information.  
We offer specific training courses to keep field employees and 
managers informed about evolving issues and best practices  
for our industry. 
• Nearly 18,000 EHS training modules
• More than 7,000 hours
These courses foster a mindset of personal responsibility and 
individual accountability, while emphasizing our focus on the 
hierarchy of controls.
DRIVING SAFETY
In 2020, our employees drove nearly 23 million miles working 
for the company. Furthermore, we faced the additional 
challenge of having many of our field offices closed due to the 
pandemic, requiring greater reliance on fleet vehicles. We use 
in-vehicle monitoring systems in the U.S. and Egypt to help 
ensure the safe driving habits of our workforce. This real-time 
monitoring is overseen by the Apache Incident Management 
Center and locally based information centers.37%
reduction in workforce 
recordable injuries as a result 
of our enhanced approach to 
incident management during the 
second half of 2020 compared 
with the first half.Communities+People Health and Safety59
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
We began drilling our first exploration well in September 2019 
in Block 58 offshore Suriname. Since then, our Suriname 
operations have included approximately 1.4 million man-hours 
worked, and 18 crew changes transporting more than 2,300 
workers and personnel to and from shore, with zero recordable 
health, safety and environmental incidents.
In collaboration with Surinamese officials and our contractor 
companies, we responded quickly and decisively to the 
pandemic by implementing multiple new procedures to 
maintain the health and safety of our offshore workforce. For 
example, crew members were quarantined in Houston for 14 
days prior to mobilization, and daily health and wellness checks 
were performed on each person, including COVID-19 testing.
Our drilling contractor, Noble, utilized a system that parallels our 
AIM for ZERO safety program. Any person on the drillship could 
submit observations or note situations that appeared unsafe, 
such as housekeeping practices, hand and body placement, 
guard and barrier locations or conditions, and use of personal 
protective equipment. During the drilling program, nearly 
60,000 observations were submitted to Noble.
The drillship we utilized made four discoveries on Block 58 at 
the Maka, Sapakara, Kwaskwasi and the Keskesi wells, with  
no recordable injuries or Lost Time Incidents and a rig uptime  
of 97.5%. The health, safety and environmental (HSE) 
performance of the Noble Sam Croft while working for us on the 
Suriname project produced the best HSE results in the Western 
Hemisphere for 
“floaters” (floating 
drilling vessels) in 
Noble's fleet in 2020.
We are proud to have 
achieved this safety 
performance, in what 
became an even more 
challenging operating 
environment as a result 
of the pandemic. 
1.4 MM
approximate man-hours worked  
in our offshore operations in 
Suriname, with zero recordable 
health, safety and environmental 
incidents.Offshore Suriname, Block 58
Operating Safely Offshore SurinameCASE STUDYCommunities+People Health and Safety60
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportLeveraging the power of a third-party contractor management 
data service, we set minimum criteria for all contractors 
concerning core training, insurance, and health and safety 
management, which are incorporated as contractual provisions 
that are required for approval of all master services agreements.
Like others in our industry, we rely on contractors to support 
nearly every aspect of our operations, from exploration and 
production to well closure and remediation activities. 
Contractors typically account for about two-thirds of our total 
workforce hours each year.
We engage consistently and actively with our contractors to 
promote alignment with APA’s Core Values and EHS and 
operational excellence. Our contractor-facing website outlines 
the EHS expectations of our contractors, with applicable 
documents  available for download. Our comprehensive 
contractor management process addresses the full life cycle of 
supplier engagement, from selection and evaluation to 
monitoring and post-contract review.
All contractors providing U.S.-based services are required to 
have a Code of Conduct or Code of Ethics and a method to 
demonstrate that their employees are aware of and adhering  
to that code. In addition to the internal review process 
described above, we also assess contractors using leading 
third-party supply chain management tools that provide 
evaluations on a range of criteria, including performance and 
management of safety, anti-corruption, financial health and 
other business issues.
Frequent contractor safety audits, both on job sites and in 
contractor field offices, are critical components of our 
compliance assurance process. Contractor audits assess a 
range of controls, including EHS management systems, data 
analytics, training compliance and competency.Contractor Partnership
The coordination and oversight of our contractor relationships are critical 
to our success.
Evaluation of EHS Management Systems
• Utilizing third-party data   
management services
• Reviewing top operational risks and  
mitigating controls
Assessment of Technical Capabilities   
and Service Quality
• Verification and validation of  
operational readiness
• Training compliance and competency
Compliance Assurance
• EHS audits
• Performance reviews
Continuous Improvement
• Sharing and adopting industry best practices
• Reviewing lessons learned
• Evaluation of emerging technologiesCONTRACTOR MANAGEMENT PROCESS
Communities+People Health and Safety61
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
Our expansive footprint presents a wide range of operational 
risks. We recently consolidated several functions to form a 
resilience and risk team with a global focus on operational risk 
management, crisis and emergency management, and business 
continuity, which pulls together various local, regional, and 
national crisis and emergency management-related regulations 
and requirements. This team drives proactive preparedness 
across all operations, ensuring the company’s ability to continue 
business service through anticipating, preventing, responding 
to, recovering from, or adapting to adverse events.
Our resilience and risk framework is a holistic program with a 
standardized approach across the organization, and overarching 
risk and response procedures and practices. A cornerstone of 
this approach is a perpetual cycle of risk identification and 
assessment, developing response plans, enhancing the 
capabilities of identified response personnel through training 
and practice, and continuously improving through extensive 
analysis of performance.
RISK MANAGEMENT
We recently undertook a significant revision of our risk 
management program including integration of a third-party 
software platform to catalogue operational and nonoperational risks on our corporate risk register. This tool provides a 
high-level overview of company risks identified through risk 
assessments, with a qualitative scoring calculation that allows 
comparisons of varying types of risks. The revised program is a 
result of a collaborative effort by Operations, Internal Audit and 
nonoperational risk management, and the Resilience and Risk 
team. Effectively managing operational risks allows the 
company to promptly adapt to and mitigate risks that affect the 
achievement of our strategic, business and operational 
objectives across all operating areas.Resilience and Risk
WHAT CAN GO WRONG WHAT CAN GO RIGHTMANAGE RISKCREATE VALUE
ASSURANCEOPPORTUNITY & RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK“Our resilience and risk 
framework is a holistic 
program  with a  
standardized approach  
across the organization.”Communities+People Health and Safety62
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportCRISIS AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Our crisis and emergency management standard establishes 
the expectations, guidelines, procedures and responsibilities for 
preparing for or responding to a potential crisis, incident or 
emergency. All of our operating areas are required to meet this 
corporate standard, which provides organizational structures, 
management processes and tools necessary to:
1. Prevent, mitigate or respond to crises
2. Respond to incidents in a safe, rapid and effective fashion
3. Restore and resume affected operations
The program is embodied in a preparedness cycle: a continuous 
improvement cycle of planning, organizing, training, equipping, 
exercising, evaluating and taking corrective action to ensure 
effective coordination during a response to an incident.
INDUSTRY COLLABORATIONS AND PARTNERSHIPS
We are active in several industry collaborations to improve our 
response capabilities, including Oil Spill Response Limited, 
which provides well control and spill response support globally 
to our offshore areas of operation. We maintain additional 
memberships with Clean Gulf Associates and National 
Response Corporation for spill response in the Gulf of Mexico. 
We also have a contract with Wild Well Control, for instances 
when support is needed for a well-control incident in any other 
area of operation.
Response to Winter Storm 
Uri in the U.S.
The winter storm experienced in the U.S. during February 2021 presented an 
unprecedented confluence of hazards and impacts to a majority of Texans. The  
event strained communications and infrastructure, impacting employees at home 
and work. Prior to the storm, we closed offices and implemented flexible work 
accommodations for employees to ensure their own safety and that of their families. 
All nonessential travel and other activities were halted, and personnel successfully 
completed preparations for our facilities and IT systems before the storm.
Excellent coordination between Houston and Midland offices and field personnel allowed for the transition of certain systems to groups  
and teams that maintained communication capabilities, ensuring a constant awareness of risks and safety of field personnel. With 85% of 
Permian-based production shut in, employees monitored alarms through software and the Remote Operations Center. For staff members who 
had to make emergency field visits, the Apache Incident Management Center used our vehicle tracking system to ensure that they returned 
home safely with 24-hour monitoring. Just five days after the storm, thousands of wells and facilities were back to 90% of original production. 
Bottled water was secured and distributed to the many personnel in Houston and Midland who experienced interruptions in drinking water at 
their homes.
Although we did not experience any operational incidents as a result of the storm, a detailed after-action report was compiled in an effort to 
learn and improve for future events.
EFFECTIVE COORDINATION DURING 
AN INCIDENT RESPONSE
1. PLANNING
2. ORGANIZING
3. TRAINING7. TAKING 
CORRECTIVE 
ACTION
4. EQUIPPING6. EVALUATING
5. EXERCISING
Communities+People Health and Safety63
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportWe seek to connect the company’s philanthropic giving with our 
purpose as a business. Through this approach, we seek to 
create shared value by maximizing sustainable benefits for our 
communities, while also creating competitive advantage and 
value for our company.
In 2020, as part of a significant corporate reorganization (see  
p. 42), our Community Partnerships team became part of our 
Corporate Communications & Public Affairs group, which 
centralized decision-making for philanthropic giving in order to 
ensure the strategic outcomes across the organization.
Our strategic philanthropic giving and community engagement 
initiatives focus on listening to and engaging with our 
stakeholders. We respond to acute needs within the community 
while building long-term relationships. Based on this dialogue 
and research, we identify initiatives that serve the specific 
needs of the community and that align with our organization’s 
Core Values  and business.
We have a long-standing commitment to addressing social and 
environmental issues, such as providing access to education 
and supporting conservation efforts. In 2020, building on this foundation, we formalized our global giving strategy and 
philosophy into three pillars: Community , Environmental 
Stewardship  and Access to Energy , through which we create 
sustainable and positive impacts. Based on these pillars, we are 
committed to:
• Addressing acute social needs within the local communities 
where we operate;
• Ensuring that we remain focused on our long-standing legacy 
and commitment to environmental stewardship and 
conservation; and
• Supporting underserved communities that lack access to 
reliable, affordable energy.
While these pillars will guide our giving strategy going forward, 
in 2020, during the unprecedented challenges of the COVID-19 
pandemic, we focused our charitable giving on relief initiatives 
that address the critical needs of the global communities where 
we live and operate, including poverty and food insecurity; 
medical and safety equipment for health care workers and first 
responders; access to virtual tools for remote learning; and 
supporting vulnerable women and children who were affected 
by economic adversity during the pandemic.Our Approach to Social Investing 
and Community Engagement
The Community Partnerships group oversees the company’s global strategic 
social investing and community engagement, including the stewardship of key 
stakeholder relationships. 
COMMUNITY SERVICES* — Around the world, each community where we operate has unique 
and specific needs. Opportunities for partnership include improving quality of life through access 
to education and essential medical supplies; supporting vulnerable populations, including women 
and children in need; responding to natural disasters, and supporting first responders.
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP — Conservation goes hand in hand with responsible 
energy development and includes initiatives that support habitat, species and water conservation.
ACCESS TO ENERGY — Access to reliable energy is critical to societal progress. Our 
community partnership efforts in this area seek to expand access to energy for communities in 
developing nations and address reliability and affordability of energy in developed countries.2020 Global Community 
Investments
21%
2%77%Community Partnerships —  Our Strategic Areas of Focus
* Includes charitable giving in areas of Education; Health & Well-Being; First Responders & U.S. Military Support; 
Women, Youth & Family Services; Community Resources; and Arts.Communities+People Community64
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
SUPPORTING ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
Since our founding, the company has had a legacy of supporting 
land conservation in the U.S. Our environmental stewardship 
initiatives focus on large-scale wildlife and habitat conservation 
through partnerships with organizations such as the National 
Fish & Wildlife Foundation and Texas Parks and Wildlife 
Foundation. We also focus on enhancing community and public 
green spaces through initiatives such as our award-winning 
Apache Tree Grant Program.
During the 2020-2021 season, we granted more than 64,000 
trees to 56 nonprofit organizations and government agencies 
throughout Texas, Louisiana, New Mexico and Wyoming. 
Examples of tree-planting projects include:
• A tree grant made to the Trust for Public Land, benefiting the 
Bayou Teche National Wildlife Refuge, which conserves over 
9,000 acres of Louisiana’s coastal bottomland hardwood 
forests and bald cypress tupelo swamp habitats;
• Trees provided to the Buffalo Bayou Partnership to benefit 
residents of the bayou’s East Sector, where the organization 
has launched a master plan to transform the area into an 
environmentally sustainable space, and to create new green 
spaces and nature paths in the underserved East End and 
Fifth Ward neighborhoods of Houston;
• A grant to Tree New Mexico’s ABQ NeighborWoods Program 
to support residents in underserved communities in New 
Mexico, which has experienced some of the highest rates of 
tree loss across the country over the past three years; and
• Since 2014, have partnered with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife 
Service South Texas Refuge to plant more than 75,000 
seedlings across 98 acres of natural habitat in South Texas; 
these reforestation and restoration initiatives preserve the 
ecological function of the Tamaulipan thornscrub forests and 
protect endangered wildlife in the region.Since 2005, the program has granted over 4.8 million trees to  
a wide variety of nonprofit organizations and government 
agencies in the U.S., including cities, counties, schools, state 
and local parks, universities, youth associations, wildlife refuges 
and community groups. In addition to using trees to beautify 
neighborhoods and preserve natural habitats, nonprofit and 
governmental groups often request trees to support a range of 
conservation efforts, including reforestation in areas affected by 
natural disasters.
Communities+People Community65
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
Conservation Initiatives
We are active in conservation efforts, such as at the Ucross Ranch 
in Wyoming, the Pecos Watershed Conservation Initiative in 
West Texas and New Mexico and, most recently, in partnership 
with Respect Big Bend in West Texas.
Through the Pecos Watershed Conservation Initiative, we work 
closely with eight other oil and gas companies, the National Fish 
and Wildlife Foundation and the U.S. Department of 
Agriculture’s Natural Resources Conservation Service to help 
protect the Pecos River Watershed, which is the home of many 
rare and endemic species. In 2019, we joined as an energy 
adviser to the Respect Big Bend Stakeholder Advisory Group 
(SAG), composed of landowners, nonprofits and community 
members. Sponsored by the Cynthia and George Mitchell 
Foundation, Respect Big Bend is focused on providing solutions 
that balance energy development and conservation, while 
addressing community needs and concerns about future 
development. We provided the group with guidance and insight 
into lessons learned about effective stakeholder and community 
engagement in and around the company’s Alpine High asset 
(learn more about these and other conservation programs on 
pp. 32-34).Partnering With Public Parks
We have a long history of collaborating with public parks. We 
have supported park improvement and repair projects in the 
communities where we operate and have worked closely with 
the state park departments in Texas and Louisiana to identify 
areas where we can make a positive impact.
For example, we have worked with the Texas Parks and Wildlife 
Foundation to restore and improve Balmorhea State Park in 
West Texas. We led a matching gift campaign in 2018 that 
raised $2 million to repair the nearly 100-year-old, spring-fed 
swimming pool at Balmorhea State Park. Many of our 
contractors participated with local landowners in the successful 
effort to raise the funds needed to do the delicate work of 
repairing the pool while protecting its unique aquatic habitat. 
We donated an additional $1 million to create an endowment to 
ensure that the park would have a sustainable source of funding 
for beautification and education initiatives for years to come.
We also support the University of Texas at Austin’s McDonald 
Observatory to strengthen the Dark Skies Initiative and mitigate 
the negative impacts of light pollution on the night skies of West 
Texas. Our $257,000 gift to the McDonald Observatory funded 
ongoing efforts to educate the public on the importance of dark 
skies and the vital research of the observatory, including hiring 
additional staff to support and manage the Dark Skies Initiative. 
In response to the pandemic, the Observatory’s educational 
activities were virtual in 2020, and there are plans to continue 
to utilize our gift in the future for in-person events and 
educational initiatives, including an updated visitors’ gallery 
on-site.
We support the  
University of Texas 
at Austin’s McDonald 
Observatory to 
strengthen the Dark 
Skies Initiative.

65 APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report 65 APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportSpring-fed swimming pool, Balmorhea State ParkCommunities+People Community66
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportSupporting the U.N. SDGs
In 2020, we committed 100% of our philanthropic dollars to supporting causes that align with the United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals (U.N. SDGs). This builds on many of our long-term giving activities, which were already aligned with the SDGs, 
including programs addressing gender inequality, building sustainable communities and providing quality education through 
Springboard Schools in Egypt, and continuing to advance environmental stewardship and conservation through initiatives such as 
the Apache Tree Grant Program.
Donated more than 500,000 PPE kits 
and equipment  (surgical masks, face 
shields, gloves and hand sanitizer) to 
hospitals, health care units, quarantine 
centers and first responders across the 
world (U.N. SDGs 3, 10, 11, 16).Supported 300 hospitals, 1,000 
primary health care units and 50 
quarantine centers across Egypt in 
partnership with the U.S. Chamber of 
Commerce Foundation (U.N. SDGs 3, 
10, 11, 17).
Partnered with Staatsolie to establish 
an intensive-care unit  in Paramaribo, 
Suriname (U.N. SDGs 3, 10, 11,  
16, 17).Provided over 20,000 meals  to 
families in need in the U.S. and U.K. 
during the COVID-19 pandemic (U.N. 
SDGs 1, 2, 3).
Supported crisis services  and  
emergency shelter from domestic 
violence  for women and families in the 
U.S. and Suriname (U.N. SDGs 1, 3, 5, 10).Provided 1,400 students  in the 
Midland, Texas, school district with 
virtual tools and internet access to 
support remote learning  (U.N. SDGs 
4, 10, 11).
In partnership with the National Fish 
and Wildlife Foundation, continued 
our support of the Pecos Watershed 
Conservation initiative to conserve 
riparian grasslands, species and 
habitats in the greater Trans-Pecos 
Region (U.N. SDGs 6, 13, 14, 15).Established a new multiyear 
partnership with the Posse 
Foundation to expand diversity at top 
U.S. colleges and universities, support 
Posse Scholars in their academic 
studies and empower students from all 
socioeconomic backgrounds to take on 
leadership positions in the workforce 
and within their communities (U.N. SDGs 
4, 5, 10).2020-2021 COMMUNITY GIVING ALIGNED WITH THE U.N. SDG sCommunities+People Community67
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportSupporting the U.N. SDGs (Continued)
ABOUT THE U.N. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
The U.N. SDGs are a blueprint for achieving a better and more sustainable future for all by addressing the global challenges we 
face, including poverty, inequality, climate change, environmental degradation, peace and justice. The United Nations areas of 
focus for the next decade (2020-2030) are tackling growing poverty, empowering women and girls, and addressing the global 
climate emergency.
Supported Voluntary Service Aberdeen 
(VSA) in the reopening of Easter 
Anguston Farm in the U.K. , an 
operational farm that serves as a training 
facility for adults with learning disabilities 
(U.N. SDGs 2, 3, 4, 10, 11, 15).Through the Apache Tree Grant 
Program, partnered with 56 U.S. 
nonprofit organizations to grant more 
than 64,000 trees  in support of 
reforestation of state and municipal 
parks, restoration of natural habitat 
and beautification of community green 
spaces (U.N. SDGs 13, 15).
Donated coats, shoes and winter 
clothing to more than 2,000 children
in need in the U.K. (U.N. SDGs 1, 3).2020-2021 COMMUNITY GIVING ALIGNED WITH THE U.N. SDG s
Communities+People Community68
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
Domestic violence, sexual assaults and the abuse of women and 
children escalated significantly in communities around the 
world during the COVID-19 pandemic. For example, assaults 
increased by over 70% in Texas.
We focused on addressing this critical issue by increasing social 
awareness of domestic violence and sexual assault, and 
providing critically needed support for vulnerable women and 
children in the areas where we live and work around the world.
STICRIS Women’s Shelter — Suriname
Only a single chair and mattress remained of the 14-room 
STICRIS Women’s Shelter in Paramaribo, Suriname, after a 
catastrophic fire in December 2011. The shelter, which was 
built in 1985 to offer women and their children a safe, 
nonviolent environment, had to shut down its operations 
completely.In 2018, STICRIS began rebuilding and expanding the shelter. 
Through support from community partners including APA 
Suriname, STICRIS reopened in 2020. The new, two-story 
building has 13 individual rooms, a kitchen, a laundry room, a 
multipurpose space, and room for consultations. STICRIS 
provides professional guidance to help women plan for their 
future and become economically independent, and offers 
resources to women even after they leave the shelter.
“We are filled with joy, because after nine years, we have finally 
succeeded in reopening the STICRIS women’s shelter,” Heidy 
Cederboom, chairman of STICRIS, said at the reopening 
ceremony in 2020. “We would not have been here today without 
the support of [APA] and other partners.”
Houston Area Women’s Center
The mission of the Houston Area Women’s Center (HAWC) is to 
end domestic and sexual violence and build safe and healthy 
lives through advocacy, counseling, education, shelter and 
support services. In 2020, HAWC’s crisis hotline averaged 
about 100 calls daily and received thousands of requests for 
emergency shelter and emotional support from victims 
throughout the greater Houston area. Our support provided 
emergency shelter for dozens of women and families during the 
height of the COVID-19 pandemic. Sarah Sparker Patel, 
HAWC’s director of institutional giving, stated, “We are 
immensely grateful for the support they provided to help us 
weather this storm. Together, we continue to ensure women and 
children fleeing violence receive real-time response and safety 
on demand. On behalf of the survivors who seek our help in 
these desperate times, thank you.”
Supporting Vulnerable   
Women and Children
“We are filled with joy, because after nine years, we have finally 
succeeded in reopening the STICRIS women’s shelter .” 
Heidy Cederboom , Chairman of STICRIS * in Paramaribo, SurinameSTICRIS Women’s Shelter
* “Stichting tehuis voor vrouwen in Crisissituaties, ” which translates to Home for Women in Crisis Situations Foundation.CASE STUDYCommunities+People Community69
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
Option, Inc.
Option, Inc. of Hobbs, New Mexico, is a nonprofit organization 
with a mission to provide a safe haven and support for victims 
of domestic violence, while working to reduce incidents through 
education and awareness. At the peak of the COVID-19 
pandemic, New Mexico’s first responders saw a dramatic rise in 
domestic violence cases, up nearly 80% from 2019. Many 
victims were reluctant to seek shelter, however, as they weighed 
the risk of violence from domestic partners against the risk of 
contracting COVID-19. We supported Option, Inc. in providing 
safe emergency and transitional shelter, emotional support and 
education to domestic violence and abuse survivors in and 
around Lea County. “Our community has faced an escalating 
need for support services necessary to combat domestic 
violence. Their support will aid us in furthering our mission to 
provide safety and ease the suffering for numerous individuals 
and families,” said Robert Guthrie, operational manager of 
Option, Inc.Safe Place of the Permian Basin
Safe Place of the Permian Basin (SPPB) works to break the cycle 
of family violence by empowering individuals to make safe and 
healthy choices through awareness, counseling, advocacy and 
shelter, while promoting hope, healing and dignity. SPPB was 
created in 1978, and today serves domestic violence survivors 
across 15 counties and 16,000 square miles in the Permian 
Basin. “For more than 40 years, the underlying goal of SPPB has 
been to work with compassion and strength to help families 
walk through extreme fear into a world filled with hope,” said 
Lee Anna Good, SPPB’s director of development. “The layers of 
difficulties presented to victims of domestic violence during the 
COVID-19 pandemic have made us even more aware of how 
essential and critical our services are in changing lives. This 
ongoing effort would not be possible without the support and 
services that they help us to provide.”CASE STUDY (Continued)
“Our community has faced an 
escalating need for support 
services necessary to  
combat domestic violence . 
[APA’s] support will aid us in 
furthering our mission to 
provide safety and ease the 
suffering for numerous 
individuals and families.” 
Robert Guthrie , Operational Manager of Option, Inc. Communities+People Community70
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
In many rural villages in Egypt, lack of local access to education 
and safety concerns for young girls have resulted in limited 
educational opportunities. We are in the 17th year of supporting 
Springboard Girls Schools, an ambitious community project to 
help educate girls in remote areas of Egypt, and we remain one 
of the primary funding sources of the program. Springboard 
also works with governmental and nongovernmental 
organizations in support of the Egyptian government’s Girls’ 
Education Initiative.
Through the program, we have supported the construction of 
201 mostly one-room girls’ schools in Egypt, which together 
have enabled approximately 15,000 girls to learn how to read 
and write. Nearly 85% of the girls who start at a Springboard 
school graduate from primary school. Some go on to middle 
schools and eventually pursue advanced degrees. We have also 
supported the construction and ongoing maintenance of nine 
coeducational schools, which serve about 350 Bedouin 
students in areas near our drilling and production operations in 
the Western Desert of Egypt.We are also supporting efforts to further advance the 
educational quality of the schools. In 2018, we established a 
program with the American University in Cairo to provide 
training and development courses for 402 teachers and 201 
supervisors who work in these schools. The educators are 
currently being trained over three phases through the end of 
2021. Upon completion of the training program, the teachers 
and supervisors will receive a professional certificate from the 
American University in Cairo.
The 90-hour Teacher Development Program aims to enrich 
teachers’ human, social and psychological skills, empowering 
them to help create active and well-rounded citizens. Sessions 
focus on professionalism, learning theories, assessment 
methods, classroom management and active citizenship. The 
teachers are also introduced to concepts such as resiliency, 
autonomy, innovation, lifelong learning, multigrade teaching and 
the different stages of human development. The 90-hour 
Supervisor Development Program strives to improve the 
supervisors’ professional roles in effecting positive change 
within their schools. In total, we are contributing $340,000 to 
fund all three phases of these two training programs.Creating Educational 
Opportunities for Girls in Egypt
SPRINGBOARD GIRLS SCHOOLS  
BY THE NUMBERS
 201
schools built
600+
teachers and supervisors trained
5,000 
students enrolled annually
~15,000 
girls in APA-supported schools in Egypt  
who have learned to read and write   
since 2004CASE STUDYCommunities+People Community71
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
Our operations benefit local 
communities in the form of direct   
and indirect hiring and spending. 
The practice of hiring 
locally is one way in  
which we make 
meaningful economic 
contributions to the 
communities where we 
operate. We offer 
competitive wages and 
benefits and actively 
recruit qualified candidates who demonstrate the skills and 
experience that meet the requirements of particular jobs (learn 
more about local hiring on p. 49).
We also focus on developing strong relationships with local 
suppliers and contractors. Although many products and 
services for the oil and gas industry are commonly provided  
by large multinational suppliers, we seek to purchase what  
we can from local businesses. Welding services, water hauling, 
roustabout crews, construction crews and civil project installation crews are a few of the categories in which we 
procure goods and services from local suppliers. Sourcing 
supplies and services locally not only makes economic sense,  
it also engenders goodwill within the communities in which  
we operate.
Our operating areas spend, on average, 41% of their budgets 
with suppliers and contractors that are geographically local.Local Economic Impacts
$273 MM
U.S.$346 MM
U.K.
$34 MM
SURINAME$308 MM
EGYPT41%
of budget is spent with 
geographically local suppliers 
and contractors.
2020 TOTAL LOCAL SPEND BY COUNTRYCommunities+People Community72
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportWe follow the same high standards of community engagement 
and responsiveness everywhere we operate, while tailoring our 
approach to the unique circumstances of each community. We 
focus on developing positive relationships within our 
communities by treating those who live and work in them with 
dignity and respect. We listen to their concerns and do all that 
we reasonably can to address them through a broad and 
inclusive process.
We maintain regular and open communication with local 
officials and community leaders to promote friendly and 
proactive dialogue, and we encourage community members to 
reach out if they have any issues to discuss. We obtain regular 
formal and informal feedback from local stakeholders that we 
use to address their concerns. Building these partnerships 
provides a foundation for mutually beneficial outcomes for our 
communities, our employees and our company.Stakeholder input is considered in our decision-making 
processes, both in the planning phases and after we begin 
operations. For example, our Public Affairs and Government 
Affairs teams conduct regular stakeholder outreach and 
engagement through formal meetings, informal conversations 
and ongoing dialogue. We regularly meet with local emergency 
responders to make sure they know to call our 24-hour 
emergency number immediately if they suspect there’s a 
problem at one of our locations. We also work with them to 
ensure a coordinated response in the rare event of an incident.
We are also continuing to develop our Ambassador Program, 
which was created to give our workforce the knowledge and 
confidence necessary to become advocates for both our 
company and our industry within their communities. Employees 
are trained to actively listen and be open and responsive to 
community members’ concerns.Understanding and Addressing 
Stakeholder Concerns
72 APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportBeing a good neighbor means taking the time to listen. Through its subsidiaries, 
APA operates in numerous communities around the world, each with its own 
characteristics and needs.Communities+People Community73
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
MINIMIZING COMMUNITY IMPACTS
While most of the high-activity elements of our operations are 
short-lived, we know that they can create some concentrated, 
though temporary, inconveniences. Our guiding principle is 
always to minimize these impacts as much as possible from  
the outset. On issues ranging from the size of our well pads to 
our trucking routes, we thoughtfully work out logistics to 
minimize issues such as traffic congestion, road safety, dust, 
noise and odors.
During the pad siting process, we take multiple factors into 
consideration, including accessibility and road conditions. We 
often drive the roads in the region to get a ground-level view of 
the situation and preemptively address potential concerns, such 
as vulnerable roads, residential density and other factors.
Once we commit to a pad location, we develop 
approved routes for heavy trucking , to reduce  
the potential for widespread disturbance and  
traffic congestion. We then require all heavy trucks 
servicing the location to use the approved routes, 
which minimizes the impact on other road users. 
When needed, we also implement dust-suppression 
measures to reduce the impact on nearby residents 
and for the safety of other vehicles traveling   
the road.
We also work to reduce our impact on local   
roads and communities by encouraging safe 
driving practices  among our employees and 
contractors. We use vehicle monitoring devices to 
help ensure that employees operate vehicles safely 
on public roadways. In addition, we reduce truck 
traffic and impacts on roads by using pipelines 
instead of vehicles to transport water and oil 
whenever possible.Noise, light and odor are other common community 
concerns. We  install sound barriers  as needed, for 
example, by planting trees for noise and visual 
screening, and we use specialized lighting to reduce 
the impact on nearby residents. 
We have also introduced a number of important 
modifications in our operations, including installing 
shielding on certain lights , experimenting with 
different fixtures and adjusting our lighting so that  
it points downward rather than up toward the  
night sky. 
Odor from our operations can occur when a 
formation contains hydrogen sulfide. If hydrogen 
sulfide emissions cannot be addressed through the 
well-siting process, we install emission controls  
to mitigate odors and emissions during the 
production stage.
Communities+People Community74
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
ADDRESSING COMMUNITY COMPLAINTS
While we work hard to anticipate community concerns up front 
through our stakeholder engagement process, it’s critical that 
we have a formal process for community members to share 
their concerns with us and for us to be able to document, 
address and resolve those concerns. Moreover, we strive for 
continuous improvement, making sure we learn from every 
complaint and try to avoid any related issues across our 
operations.
As part of an effort to be responsive to community needs, we 
operate a formal grievance telephone line, the Good Neighbor 
Line. This hotline is routed to our Apache Incident Management 
(AIM) call center, ensuring that someone is there to answer calls 
and address community concerns at any time of the day or 
night. The AIM call center is staffed 24 hours a day by 
employees in Houston, where they monitor security cameras on 
properties worldwide and catalog any concerns that are 
flagged. We are one of only a few independent oil and gas 
companies with a 24-hour call center operated by employees 
rather than by a third party.
We have also established a tracking and ticketing system and a 
matrix for cataloging the types of concerns raised. Grievances 
are consolidated and maintained in a central system, and issues 
are routed to the appropriate contact for further action. Types of  
inquiries include but are not limited to safety concerns 
regarding employees and contractors, as well as questions 
regarding our operations. All inquiries receive a thorough, 
individualized investigation to determine the underlying details 
and develop appropriate resolutions. Company representatives 
work to address each situation and provide a timely response to 
the inquiry. Most issues are resolved within 72 hours.
In 2020, the Good Neighbor Line received eight phone calls 
from concerned individuals regarding safety compliance, 
donations to political funds, and issues regarding site access. 
All of these complaints were addressed and resolved.
74 APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportGood Neighbor Line
We have grievance mechanisms for public feedback, concerns and 
comments, including in person at our offices and via email, phone and 
social media. Community grievances can also be made to the company 
via the toll-free Good Neighbor Line: 1-866-705-2400 .
Communities+People Community75
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
Whether through education, training, employment or service 
agreements, we strive to ensure that our projects have direct 
and long-lasting benefits for national peoples and their local 
communities.
In Suriname, where we are still in the early stages of oil and  
gas exploration and appraisal, we look for ways to make a 
meaningful impact on a variety of social causes. We’ve made 
investments in areas such as local employment capacity-
building and health and welfare.
Local employment capacity-building has been a continued area 
of focus, since we aim to one day develop production facilities 
offshore. We helped to fund a 2017 baseline survey to help 
understand the labor capacity of the industrial service sector in 
Suriname. The survey found that there are significant gaps in the labor pool required to meet the needs of the offshore 
industry and identified a need to update vocational and 
technical learning opportunities. We are engaging with 
Surinamese education authorities to develop resources that  
will facilitate the participation of local talent in future offshore 
development.
In recognition of the need to train and develop technical 
leadership, we have again partnered with Anton de Kom 
University, the only university in the southern Caribbean that 
offers a graduate degree in petroleum geology. A master’s 
degree in this field would be instrumental in helping  
Surinamese nationals establish technical careers in the oil and 
gas industry. We have contributed to the sponsorship of this 
two-year program.
Ultimately, we want to be able to hire local members of the 
Surinamese population to help support our future oil production 
in the country. 
Our social projects in Suriname typically focus on health and 
welfare, particularly for disadvantaged communities. In   
2019, we initiated the construction of a women’s shelter in  
association with STICRIS (Women’s Shelter Foundation in 
Critical Situations) in the capital city of Paramaribo. This shelter 
will provide services for up to 11 women and their children  
at any given time. Despite the COVID-19 pandemic, the 
construction of the building was finalized and handed over  
to the foundation in November 2020, to much critical acclaim 
within the local community.
From the time we signed our first production-sharing contract in 
Suriname in 2012 through the end of 2020, APA Suriname will 
have invested approximately U.S.$1.3 million in Surinamese 
community projects.
Engaging the  Surinamese CommunityCASE STUDYCommunities+People Community76
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
We are a founding member of the Permian Strategic Partnership 
(PSP), a coalition of 17 energy companies partnering with  
local leaders in the Permian Basin to improve residents’ quality 
of life by addressing growing challenges such as affordable 
housing, road safety, and access to quality health care and 
public education.
In addition to our annual financial contributions and direct 
funding of PSP projects, our employees have served as chair of 
the government relations subcommittee and co-leader of the 
health care subcommittee. Many other employees participate in 
various committees across the organization. The PSP is just one 
example of how we work collaboratively with our industry peers 
and neighbors to help enhance the quality of life and long-term 
sustainability of the greater Permian community.In 2020, PSP’s second full year of operation, it worked with 
local organizations on eight new projects providing $5 million  
in direct contributions from member companies and  
leveraging millions more from other partners. Examples of  
PSP initiatives include:
Road Safety: 
• Supported advocacy efforts resulting in an increase of 
approximately $1 billion in state and federal funding for 
roadway improvements.
• Worked with the Texas Department of Transportation to 
identify safety risks and revise intersections, which has 
helped to reduce annual fatalities by 20% since 2018.
Health Care Access and Quality: 
• Funded additional physician assistants for the region and 
partnered with Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center 
Family Medicine Program to add family physician residents.
Housing Affordability: 
• Partnered with Weidner Homes to facilitate a 20% discount 
on teacher rent in Midland and Ector counties.
Public Education: 
• Partnered with a SpaceX beta project to provide  
residential internet access to enable homeschooling during 
the pandemic.
• Funded the Ector County Independent School District 
national teacher certification program, through which more 
than 300 teachers were provided learning and professional 
development opportunities.
Economic Development: 
• Advocated to maximize 2020 Census participation to help 
ensure an accurate count across the region, which is 
important for future support.The Permian Strategic Partnership
CASE STUDYCommunities+People Community77
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
Our human rights principles  formalize practices already in 
place and are consistent with the framework laid out by John 
Ruggie, the United Nations special representative on business 
and human rights.
Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics outlines for  
all employees the company’s high standards on anti-
discrimination, anti-harassment, workplace safety and health 
and fair employment practices (including prohibitions on   
forced child labor) and trains each employee annually on   
those policies.
Through our master services agreements, we require our 
contractors to have a Code of Conduct or Code of Ethics and to 
conduct business with respect for and adherence to human 
rights issues, including the prevention of human trafficking. We 
do not engage with contractors who have a history of violations. 
Additionally, every contractor must comply with additional, 
regular screenings to identify any risks, including human rights 
violations, across our supply chain.Three of APA Corporation’s subsidiaries based in the U.K. —
Apache North Sea Limited, Apache Beryl I Limited and Apache 
North Sea Production Limited — publish annual statements  in 
accordance with  the U.K. Modern Slavery Act. This law requires 
certain companies doing business in the U.K. to post a 
statement regarding the steps the company has taken to ensure, 
as much as reasonably possible, that modern slavery or human 
trafficking is not taking place within the organization or its 
supply chain.
APA empowers personnel working in our corporate functions 
with the duty and responsibility of identifying and reporting any 
human rights issues they identify in the course of their business. 
Additionally, every employee is given instruction on how to 
identify and report any suspected human rights issues to our 
24-hour hotline and/or our Compliance, HR and Legal 
departments. The company’s monitoring results are thoroughly 
assessed and reported annually to the Corporate Responsibility, 
Governance & Nominating Committee of our Board.Human Rights
Respect for human rights is at the core of APA’s values and operations.   
We support the honest, fair and dignified treatment of all human beings.
77 APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report 77 APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportCommunities+People Community78
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
ADDRESSING HUMAN TRAFFICKING
Human trafficking is one of the fastest-growing organized crime 
activities around the world and is increasingly common in areas 
with new and rapidly expanding economic activity.
We have taken a leadership role in our industry to address 
human trafficking. We are an active member of the Oil and Gas 
Trafficking Advocacy Group, which is working to prevent sex 
and labor trafficking at home and abroad. The group, composed 
of numerous oil and gas companies, meets regularly to discuss 
prevention and awareness topics and to help identify the role 
the industry can play in ending trafficking, for the safety and 
security of the communities in which we live and work.
We proactively inform employees, contractors and suppliers of 
the resources available that describe trafficking behaviors to 
watch for, and we provide the national human trafficking hotline 
number to report these behaviors.
We also host town halls and presentations with our contracting 
firms to alert them to the dangers of human trafficking and to 
highlight ways they can help prevent it. Those who suspect a 
trafficking crime might be taking place in the U.S. are 
encouraged to phone the National Human Trafficking Hotline  
or call local law enforcement agencies.
Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics prohibits 
employees from engaging in any illegal activities, such as 
soliciting prostitution, that could support human trafficking.RESPECTING INDIGENOUS PEOPLES
An integral part of our business is building enduring relationships 
with the communities in which we operate. This commitment to, 
recognition of and respect for the Indigenous peoples who live 
and work in these communities and have a strong connection to 
the land is core to our values. We seek to incorporate 
Indigenous perspectives into project planning, design and 
execution, as well as operational planning. During the 
exploration and development phase of a project, we promote 
open communications by conducting community meetings and 
working directly with Indigenous groups and local 
nongovernmental organizations.
We recently updated our Indigenous Peoples Principles  as 
part of our regular review and monitoring of our human rights 
principles. To that end, these principles will be reviewed 
regularly, including when entering new operating areas, and 
updated to ensure that they meet with the changing 
expectations of our global landscape.NATIONAL HUMAN  
TRAFFICKING HOTLINE
Call 1-888-373-7888
(TTY: 711)
Text 233733
Communities+People Community79
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report79 APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportCorporate Governance and     
Compensation Practices              80
Governance         81Engagement         87
Governance
At APA Corporation (APA), we believe that maintaining strong corporate governance while operating responsibly is 
essential for our business. Effective governance can help APA deliver value, protect our reputation and enable us to 
better understand and respond to the varied needs of our stakeholders. Corporate governance is more than a set of 
written principles and protocols — it is embedded in our culture of honesty and integrity and demonstrated daily in our 
actions and engagements.80
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
We also seek feedback from our many stakeholders to ensure 
our governance structure evolves with the ever-changing  
world in which we operate and keeps pace with needs and 
expectations.
APA has steadily improved its governance and compensation 
practices to further strengthen our commitments to honesty, 
integrity, accountability and transparency. These improvements 
are consistent with corporate best practices, many of which are 
based directly on feedback from regular engagement with our 
shareholders and include:
• Enhancing training in compliance, safety, and diversity and 
inclusion; expanding skills development opportunities; and 
improving the health, wellness, education and diversity of  
our workforce.• Linking annual incentive compensation not just of 
management, but of all employees, directly to environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) goals that address routine 
flaring, freshwater consumption and diversity and inclusion 
programs.
• Board oversight for diversity initiatives, ESG strategy, 
environmental performance, health and safety performance, 
adherence to human rights principles, political contributions, 
climate change and transition risks, and risk management.
• Further expanding and improving the explanation in our 
annual proxy statement of our pay practices and their 
alignment with strategic goals, including on ESG topics.
• Maintaining an independent, nonexecutive Board chair. 
• Expanding the diversity of our Board, 40% of whose 
members are now diverse in terms of gender or ethnicity. 
• Adopting revisions to both our Human Rights Principles and 
Indigenous Peoples Principles.
• Maintaining an externally hosted hotline through which any 
person may report, anonymously if they so choose, 
suspected violations of law or APA policies.Corporate Governance     
and Compensation Practices
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE   
BY THE NUMBERS
 20%
of annual incentive compensation for all 
employees is tied to ESG goals
40%
of Board members are diverse
Our corporate governance policies and practices are regularly 
reviewed, and changes are made as appropriate. Governance81
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
APA’s CEO and president directly
manages the company’s business by 
overseeing the implementation of 
our corporate strategy. The Board of 
Directors, which is elected by the 
company’s shareholders, oversees 
management and ensures that the 
long-term interests of shareholders 
are being served.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
APA’s Board of Directors plays a vital role in the design, 
implementation and monitoring of our corporate governance 
practices. All of APA’s nonemployee Directors, including the 
Board chair, are independent per the standards of Nasdaq and 
the Securities and Exchange Commission. Board members are 
selected based on a wide range of criteria, including expertise; 
dedication to the highest ethical, health, safety and 
environmental standards; and a willingness to question and 
challenge management.
The Board’s diversity encompasses — among other elements 
— race, gender, age and experience. In 2021, 40% of APA’s 
Board members are female or ethnic minorities. These Directors 
play critical roles on our Board, including chairing the Corporate 
Responsibility, Governance & Nominating (CRG&N) Committee 
and the Audit Committee, and taking a leading role in our 
shareholder engagement.
In addition, 60% of current Directors have experience with 
environmental and regulatory issues. For example, Amy Nelson 
has substantial water-related expertise and is much sought after 
by her clients in the energy services and equipment industry for 
this specific experience. Other Directors have acquired such 
experience through their service as executives in areas that 
require extensive interaction with regulatory and environmental 
agencies. (A comprehensive matrix on p. 97 provides additional 
details on the Board of Directors’ experience and demographics.)In recent years, we have taken a number of steps to improve 
Board composition and succession, to ensure we have  
ongoing exposure to fresh expertise and experience. As of the 
2021 annual meeting of shareholders, the Board’s average  
term length is 6.3 years. Seven of the Board’s 10 members 
were appointed after 2014, and all Board members are subject 
to a mandatory retirement age of 75. Each year, the Board 
conducts a comprehensive Board evaluation process for every 
Director, which includes in-depth conversations and 
personalized feedback.
The Board also engaged with the National Association of 
Corporate Directors (NACD), which conducted an independent 
evaluation of our Board in December 2018. This involved 
individual interviews with the Directors and an online survey 
that each Director completed. After discussion with the 
independent nonexecutive chairman and the chairwoman of our 
CRG&N Committee, the NACD facilitated a discussion of the 
results with the full Board. As a result of this evaluation and the 
Board’s annual evaluation, the Board has continued to make 
changes to its practices in order to have more effective and 
impactful meetings.Governance
30%
of Board members   
are women.

81 APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report 81 APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportGovernance82
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT
Employees at all levels of the organization regularly work to 
identify and manage risk. To support these efforts, we have  
a corporate Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) function, which 
ensures that procedures are in place for the corporatewide 
identification and management of both nonoperational and 
operational risks. The group also provides oversight of ongoing, 
companywide monitoring and risk management. The vice 
president of Risk Management reports to the Board of Directors’ 
Audit Committee on aspects of risk management, including  
an annual update to the committee on the overall risk  
management process.
Risk matters are identified and addressed by employees 
throughout the organization. In addition, both operations and 
nonoperations risk owners formally review risk registers on a 
semiannual basis, updating them as necessary. Emerging risks 
are also identified and evaluated.
We have made significant improvements to the ERM function 
over the past year, including enhancing processes related to risk 
identification, risk assessment and monitoring of remediation 
actions and effectiveness. We implemented a new risk 
management information technology (IT) application that serves 
as a common repository for company risk data and provides an 
automated means of tracking and reporting on the effectiveness 
of our risk mitigation.INTERNAL AUDIT
Our Internal Audit group is an independent, objective assurance 
and consulting function designed to add value by assessing and 
improving the company’s operations and processes. The group 
applies a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluating and 
improving the effectiveness of risk management, internal 
controls, governance and business processes. The group 
reports to the Board of Directors’ Audit Committee, providing an 
independent assessment mechanism for the Board concerning 
the company’s business practices and performance. Internal 
auditors assess more than 100 different departments and 
processes across the company. Based on audit results, the 
Internal Audit group develops specific recommendations for 
continuous improvement.
Audit targets are chosen based on a detailed risk assessment 
process to ensure that every group or process is reviewed at 
least once every four years, with many reviewed more 
frequently. Examples of audits conducted include enterprise 
risk management processes, supply chain activities, various 
operational and financial functions, IT systems and processes, 
and governance practices. Our Internal Audit group also verifies 
all content and data in this sustainability report (see About This 
Report, p. 90).
In addition to conducting our own rigorous internal audits, we 
participate in a range of third-party reviews that provide an 
external assessment of, and insight into, the effectiveness of our 
processes and performance. Moving forward, we will continue 
to use external reviews, as well as our own Internal Audit 
process, to identify and address opportunities to improve 
safety, environmental and social performance.
Evolving Cybersecurity
Cyberattacks use increasingly sophisticated methods and could pose a serious risk to 
our company’s revenue, reputation, data and ability to operate in a safe and 
environmentally responsible way. We are working to reduce the risk of becoming a victim 
of a cyberattack, using a combination of technology and expertise. Our Information 
Technology Security team is on the front line every day identifying, preventing and 
responding to potential cyberattacks that threaten the company. In 2020, we launched 
the CyberSmart employee security awareness and education initiative. This program 
includes online courses and webinars and requires an annual attestation of the 
company’s security policies.
To help ensure the ongoing strength and effectiveness of our efforts, cybersecurity is 
overseen at the Board level.
Governance83
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportCOMPLIANCE
The goal of our Compliance and Ethics program is to support 
value creation by promoting responsible conduct in accordance 
with applicable laws, rules, regulations and government 
requirements. The program provides guidance, training, 
oversight, enforcement and reporting. The director of 
Compliance ensures the company has well-defined and 
articulated standards and procedures designed to prevent and 
detect misconduct. These standards, and specifically our  
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, are communicated 
through a wide range of examples, in order to translate our 
overarching policies and standards into real-world, on-the-job 
scenarios. All employees are required to participate in 
compliance and ethics training relevant to their work and have 
the responsibility to report any suspected misconduct or 
unethical or illegal activity.
Our new, online training module allows us to provide instruction  
on several compliance topics in four languages. To increase  
the retention and effectiveness of this training, we strive to 
make sure that employees have the information they need at  
the time it is most necessary and relevant to their work. For 
example, to reinforce the company’s anti-corruption policies and procedures, we now provide easy to absorb, mobile-
accessible information before any employee travels abroad on 
company business.
Key company policies are reinforced through “compliance 
bulletins,” which provide relatable examples and explanations  
of internal policies and requirements in response to major 
national issues or internal investigations. For example, in 
preparing for our return to office during the pandemic, we 
reiterated our requirements for workplace conduct, as well as 
reminded employees that there were many changes in jobs and 
roles during our work-from-home tenure — both within and 
outside the organization — and that their conflict-of-interest 
disclosures needed to be updated accordingly. We also report 
on internal investigations that concern issues of broad 
applicability to ensure employees understand their obligations 
and requirements under applicable company policies.
We are committed to preserving, protecting and fostering the 
culture of trust and integrity that has long defined our company. 
Doing this requires that every Board Director, officer, employee 
and contractor voice their concern if they observe or suspect a 
violation of law or the company’s policies.
To facilitate this reporting, we maintain an Ethics Hotline, a 
24/7/365 resource externally hosted and managed by a third 
party. Employees and external stakeholders may use this 
anonymously to report any alleged violations of law or the 
company’s policies and standards of conduct. Concerns may be 
submitted by telephone or using an online form . All concerns 
reporting potential misconduct involving any company 
representative — whether received through the Ethics Hotline 
or otherwise — are tracked and investigated by the director of 
Compliance, with assistance as necessary from other functions 
throughout the organization. In addition to the Ethics Hotline, “APA’s Code of Business 
Conduct and Ethics is 
available in three languages : 
English, Spanish and Arabic.” 
ETHICS HOTLINE
North America:  866-756-2599
Egypt:   0800-000-9534
Trinidad:   800-203-0148
United Kingdom:  UFIN 00-800-5588-1345
Other countries:  800-5588-1345
Online FormGovernance84
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
the procedure for submitting a complaint or concern regarding 
accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters is 
available on our website.
Concerns that may involve substantial risk to human health or 
safety; the potential for criminal liability or fines against the 
company; potential antitrust, bribery or corruption violations;  
or that are otherwise found to be serious are escalated for 
reporting to the CEO, general counsel and vice president of 
Human Resources for management review, and then promptly 
reported to a designated member of APA’s Board of Directors.ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION
Our policy is to conduct business fairly, ethically and in 
compliance with applicable laws, regulations and other 
government requirements. Our Code of Business Conduct and 
Ethics requires not only the avoidance of misconduct, but also 
the avoidance of acts or omissions that give the appearance  
of misconduct.
Our Code explains the primary policies governing the high 
standards of conduct applicable to every employee, including, 
but not limited to, equal employment opportunity, anti-
harassment, social media guidelines, conflicts of interest, 
handling of confidential information, data privacy and 
recordkeeping, anti-corruption and anti-bribery, political 
contributions and lobbying, and insider trading. In addition, the 
Code and supplementary policies, such as the company’s Voice 
Your Concern Policy, emphasize every employee’s duty to 
report any suspected violation of law or company’s policies, 
provide guidance on how to submit a report, highlight and 
reinforce our anti-retaliation policy, and outline our investigation 
and enforcement process.
All employees, as well as APA’s Board of Directors, receive 
training on the Code as part of the hiring and onboarding 
process and are then required to certify annually that they have 
read the Code and fulfilled the requirements and expectations 
set forth in the document. Directors, officers and employees 
are responsible for promptly reporting any actual, attempted  
or apparent violations of applicable laws, rules, regulations or 
our Code.
84 APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
Governance85
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportAdditionally, employees are required to follow our company-
specific Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) Compliance 
Guide, and all employees who engage directly with foreign 
governments or officials or otherwise may deal with issues 
implicated by the FCPA or other anti-corruption laws receive 
annual training on the FCPA and its relevance to their work.  
All other employees are required to read and understand our 
policies and procedures with respect to matters that may 
pertain to the FCPA or similar laws.
In 2019, the company updated its conflicts of interest and gifts 
and entertainment policies and introduced a new disclosure 
module. We expanded the policies to underscore our 
commitment to ethical conduct, honesty and transparency. 
These policies and disclosure requirements apply to all 
employees worldwide.
We also worked with a third-party consultant to revamp the 
training and recertification process for the Code. In 2020, 
training was administered using a third-party module system. 
The standard policies of the Code will be reviewed annually, as 
well as rotated in content modules that capture trending and 
newsworthy topics. This new system works in tandem with the 
company’s ‘A’ Game learning system and notification process 
for all employees. The Code is offered to employees in English, 
Spanish and Arabic, and the training modules include an 
additional Dutch option.
Our Board of Directors annually reviews the Code and makes 
updates or revisions as necessary or appropriate.PUBLIC POLICY AND POLITICAL DISCLOSURES
We operate in the highly regulated natural gas and oil industry, 
and our operations are affected by actions at many levels of 
government. The company participates in the political and 
public policy process in a responsible and ethical way that 
serves both the best interests of our shareholders and the 
safety and well-being of our workforce and other stakeholders. 
Our public policy activities include education and advocacy 
efforts at the federal, state and local government levels.
We are committed to complying with all applicable state and 
federal rules pertaining to lobbying and disclosures. Relevant 
reports regarding our activities are publicly available on the 
appropriate state websites; the Office of the Clerk, U.S. House 
of Representatives; the Secretary of the Senate, U.S. Senate; 
and the various state ethics commissions.
In addition to following external regulations, we have developed 
our own policy on political contributions and lobbying 
expenditures and Board oversight thereof. Our Government 
Affairs function manages and coordinates the company’s 
political and public policy activities.
Political Contributions
In the U.S., we may consider corporate contributions, where 
allowable by law, for direct expenditures and/or independent 
expenditures in support of candidates, ballot measures, 
inaugurations, political party conventions and/or causes that 
align with the company’s business objectives. At the direction of 
APA Is a Trendsetter in Political 
Disclosure and Accountability 
Among All S&P 500 Companies
The CPA-Zicklin Index benchmarks the political disclosure and accountability 
policies and practices for election-related spending of leading U.S. public 
companies. Issued annually, it is produced by the Center for Political Accountability, 
in conjunction with the Zicklin Center for Business Ethics Research at The Wharton 
School at the University of Pennsylvania. For the last five years, we have maintained 
the distinction of “trendsetter” for our policies and proactive disclosures.
Governance86
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Reportthe Board of Directors, all contributions using corporate funds 
are reviewed and approved by the CRG&N Committee.
Employees can support candidates for office through the 
Apache Political Action Committee (ApachePAC), which is 
funded exclusively through voluntary contributions from eligible 
employees. Employee contributions to ApachePAC are not 
reimbursed (directly or indirectly), matched or tax-deductible.
ApachePAC contributes to federal and state political candidates 
who support responsible development of oil and natural gas 
and other business issues of interest to the company. 
Disbursements by ApachePAC are made solely based upon the 
best interests of the company and its shareholders, not on the 
personal agendas of individual Directors, officers or employees. 
Distributions are approved by the ApachePAC Board, per the 
Apache PAC policy. All ApachePAC contributions are fully 
disclosed in reports filed with the Federal Election Commission 
(FEC) and the various state ethics commissions and can be 
accessed on the FEC’s website at fec.gov  and on the respective 
state websites.
Trade Associations
APA participates in trade and industry associations and engages 
in advocacy and grassroots industry communications and 
education efforts. We are actively involved in trade associations 
to share technical and standards expertise and to take part in 
important public education efforts regarding major issues of 
common concern to our industry.Our participation in trade and industry associations is subject to 
management oversight by our Government Affairs function, 
which approves our memberships and serves as our principal 
representative in such associations.
We pay regular membership dues to several trade associations. 
Some utilize a portion of those dues for nondeductible state and 
federal lobbying and political expenditures. Per the requirements 
of Section 162(e)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code, such trade 
associations must provide us with the percentage of our annual 
dues that are attributable to lobbying expenses. We disclose 
these contributions and post a report  annually on our website.
Lobbying
We lawfully engage in the legislative process to communicate 
our views on legislative and regulatory matters affecting our 
business at the federal, state and local levels. This activity is 
subject to various federal and state rules and regulations, and 
we are committed to complying with those requirements.
Governance87
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportSTAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
We regularly engage with a wide range of stakeholders to gain 
insights into and input on issues, trends, best practices and 
specific stakeholder interests and concerns. Both the Board of 
Directors and senior management recognize that the long-term 
interests of shareholders are advanced by responsibly 
addressing the concerns of other stakeholders and interested 
parties, including employees, customers, suppliers, government 
officials and the public at large (see the Community section 
starting on p. 63 to read more about our approach to 
stakeholder engagement).
SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
APA places significant importance on engagement with our 
investors. We regularly engage with shareholders and appreciate 
feedback on topics such as corporate governance, business 
strategy, compensation and ESG issues.
Our shareholder engagement starts at the top. The Board values 
our shareholders’ perspectives and welcomes feedback on our 
business, corporate governance, executive compensation and 
sustainability practices.
Our independent Board chair and other Board members are 
accessible to shareholders at a variety of events, including our 
annual meeting, ESG-focused meetings and governance 
conferences. In addition, Board members engage with 
shareholders individually throughout the year. Board members 
can also be contacted through our corporate secretary, who 
relays communications to them as appropriate.
APA’s CEO and president and other members of the  
executive team maintain an active schedule of meetings and 
communications with shareholders. Our CEO holds an annual 
meeting with a group of our investors to discuss ESG issues and 
progress on targets and goals for the coming year. In that 
meeting, these investors can pose questions on any ESG 
subject and receive answers directly from our CEO.
In addition to numerous investor conferences, the executive 
team regularly visits shareholders in their offices, hosts 
meetings in our corporate office in Houston, and hosts site visits 
for more focused discussions on company operations. For 
example, we have given direct access to our operations and 
personnel through field visits to water recycling facilities, well 
completion operations and data analytics centers.In 2020, members of APA’s Board and management reached 
out directly to shareholders representing approximately 68% of 
shares outstanding to discuss, among other topics, our business 
strategy, our compensation practices — particularly in light of 
the COVID-19 pandemic and the macro headwinds our industry 
has faced — diversity and inclusion, and environmental and 
social stewardship. Shareholders owning approximately 50% of 
our shares either met with us in engagement meetings, 
attended our ESG event with our CEO and president, or told us 
no meeting was necessary this year. Based on feedback from 
these discussions, we have continued to increase the level of 
our disclosures in this sustainability report and in our proxy 
statement and have modified our compensation program, 
among other improvements. Notably, this year we are refreshing 
our climate statement and providing a fully TCFD-aligned 
scenario analysis in this report (see pp. 99-105).Engagement
Governance88
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report   STAKEHOLDER GROUP ENGAGEMENT METHODS READ MORE IN THIS REPORT
Investors•   Annual shareholder meeting
•   Investor days and conferences
•   ESG-focused investor meetings
•   Governance conferences 
•   Ongoing one-on-one investor discussionsShareholder Engagement, p. 87
Employees•   Ongoing employee trainings
•   Quarterly employee town halls
•   Regular leadership communications
•   Employee satisfaction surveys
•   Safety SurveyLearning and Development, p. 51
Employee Engagement, p. 52
Landowners and 
mineral owners•   Ongoing engagement via our land department
•   Community grievance line and              
resolution processUnderstanding and Addressing 
Community Concerns, p. 72
Local communities•   Local community outreach and philanthropy
•   Community grievance line and              
resolution process
•   Community meetings
•   Local job fairs and other recruitment effortsOur Approach to Social Investing and 
Community Engagement, p. 63
Understanding and Addressing 
Community Concerns, p. 72
Suppliers and contractors•   Contractor vetting process
•   Ongoing contractor assessments
•   Contractor engagement meetingsContractor Partnership, p. 60
Regulators and 
government entities•   Supporting regulatory development                 
as relevant
•  In collaboration with trade associationsTrade Associations, p. 86
NGOs and academics•   ESG investor engagement
•   Research support and fundingESG Stakeholder Engagement, p. 10 
Seismicity and Oil and Gas 
Operations, p. 35
Shareholder Engagement, p. 87
Local media•   Regular contact with and response to        
local television stations, newspapers and 
radio stationsStakeholder Engagement Overview
The table below summarizes how we engage with key stakeholder groups.Governance89
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportGovernance Downloads
To view these documents, visit apacorp.com/about/governance/governance-documents/ .
•  APA’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
• APA’s Corporate Governance Principles
• APA’s Directors’ and Officers’ Stock Ownership 
Requirements
•  APA’s Executive Compensation Clawback Policy
•  APA’s Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Anti-Corruption 
Compliance Guide
•  APA’s Margin Loans and Pledges by Directors and Officers
•  APA’s Policy on Parachute Payments for Executives and 
Accelerated Vesting of Equity Upon Change In Control
•  APA’s Policy on Prohibiting Hedging APA Securities By 
Directors and Officers
•  APA’s Political Contributions and Lobbying   
Disclosures Policy•  APA’s Procedures for the Submission of Complaints and 
Concerns Regarding Accounting, Internal Accounting 
Controls, or Auditing Matter
•  APA’s Audit Committee Charter
•  APA’s Corporate Responsibility, Governance & Nominating 
Committee Charter
•  APA’s Management Development and Compensation 
Committee Charter
•  APA’s Human Rights Principles
•  APA’s Monitoring of Human Rights Principles
•  APA’s Indigenous Peoples Principles
Governance90
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportContent has been organized to align with our three ESG pillars: 
Air, Water and Communities+People.
The report was prepared in accordance with the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards  
at the core level. We also consulted the Oil and Gas Industry 
Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting (2015) 
developed by IPIECA (the global oil and gas industry  
association for environmental and social issues), the American 
Petroleum Institute and the International Association of Oil & 
Gas Producers; the Sustainability Accounting Standards  
Board’s Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Sustainability 
Accounting Standard (SASB) (October 2018); as well as the 
recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) (2017) (see the Reporting 
Standards and Frameworks section starting on p. 107 for  
an index of indicators from these frameworks discussed in  
this report).
Data included in this report cover the 2020 calendar year 
unless otherwise noted.IDENTIFYING OUR MOST IMPORTANT ISSUES
In 2021, working closely with a third-party sustainability 
consultancy, we conducted a materiality assessment to update 
the work previously done in 2017. In recent years, our business 
focus and capital investment program have expanded to 
accommodate significant exploratory and appraisal activities 
offshore Suriname, and in general, have become less 
concentrated on U.S. onshore. We believe this portfolio 
evolution — coupled with a greater sense of urgency around 
climate change, diversity and cultural issues, and the COVID-19 
pandemic — has expanded the range of issues important to our 
company and our stakeholders. The results and feedback from 
both internal and external stakeholder engagements conducted 
during our 2021 materiality assessment informed the content 
development and focus of this report. We determined our most 
important issues through a four-step process:
1. Identify: We identified our sustainability-related issues, 
impacts, benefits, risks and opportunities by interviewing a 
range of internal and external stakeholders, reviewing 
documents representing a wide variety of stakeholder 
views and interests, and reviewing peer companies’ 
important issues. For our internal stakeholders, we 
considered the perspectives of employees from across our 
organization. The external stakeholders interviewed 
included mainstream investors, ESG-focused investors, 
institutional lenders, ESG-focused nonprofit organizations, 
NGOs, customers, academia, community members and 
leaders in the areas where we operate, as well as 
regulators. Based on these interviews and documents, we 
developed a comprehensive list of issues across a suite of 
topics, including governance, environment and society.
2. Prioritize: Issues were prioritized based on the level of 
importance internal and external stakeholders placed on 
those issues and the level of risk or opportunity they 
represent to APA and external stakeholders. Level of risk or 
opportunity was developed based on the potential for each 
issue to positively or negatively impact the environment, 
local communities, employees, contractors and company 
financial performance.About This Report
Our 2021 sustainability report covers the performance of APA Corporation 
(APA) in the areas of community involvement, governance, and 
environmental stewardship —  in particular, air and water, health and safety, 
workplace and employee issues.
“Content has been organized 
to align with our three ESG 
pillars: Air, Water  and 
Communities +People .”
Governance91
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report3. Review and revise: We reviewed the initial prioritization 
with internal stakeholders to validate the issue ratings by 
importance and revised them as needed.
4. Determine report content: We used the final issues list to 
evaluate whether we were adequately reporting on the 
issues that are most important to our internal and external 
stakeholders. Our analysis confirmed that the issues on 
which we have consistently reported are, in fact, the issues 
of greatest concern to our stakeholders. 
Moving forward, we plan to review and update this analysis 
regularly, and we will continue to revise our report content 
based on these analyses.
APA’S IMPORTANT ISSUES20
Based on our 2021 materiality analysis, we found that the 
following issues are of highest importance to internal and 
external stakeholders:
• Climate change impacts on business, transition plans, 
greenhouse gas emissions
• Diversity, equity and inclusion of our workforce
• Local economic impacts
• Water availability, water quality and wastewater management
• ESG integration and accountability (e.g., goals/targets, 
executive compensation)
• Regulation and compliance
• Reporting and transparency on ESG issues
• Spills, releases and process safety
• Employee and contractor health and safety
• Biodiversity/site impacts
INCREASING TRANSPARENCY
We believe that transparency is critical to our relationships with 
stakeholders, and we strive to continuously improve the breadth 
and quality of our data. In this year’s report, we have enhanced 
disclosures related to our:
• Company-stated goals and strategy related to ESG 
performance
• Increased alignment with the TCFD’s recommendations, 
including a fully aligned TCFD scenario analysis and public 
climate statement
• Expanded disclosure of employees’ gender and ethnic 
identity, including leadership percentages in both categories• ESG oversight framework, including at the board level
• Alignment of corporate giving strategy with the U.N. 
Sustainable Development Goals
• More closely aligned methodology of water consumption and 
produced water reuse with regards to the GRI and IPIECA 
disclosure criteria.
ASSURING REPORT CONTENT
At APA Corporation, we hold ourselves to a high standard of 
accuracy and excellence in all of our activities, including the 
content of this sustainability report. This report was developed 
by a cross-functional team of subject matter experts throughout 
the company and reviewed by select members of our executive 
team, as well as our Internal Audit function (described on  
p. 82). The rigorous internal review included verifying data 
points and facts, providing accountability for the accuracy of 
this report.
Governance92
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report1  https://www.iea.org/articles/defining-energy-access-2020-methodology .
2  World Bank: Life expectancy at birth, total (years) | Data (worldbank.org) .
3  World Bank: Literacy rate, adult total (% of people ages 15 and above) | Data (worldbank.org) .
4  United Nations, Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Population Division (2019). World Population Prospects 2019, custom data acquired via website. World 
Population Prospects - Population Division - United Nations .
5  https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/NY.GDP.PCAP.KD  (constant 2010 USD).
6  https://www.api.org/products-and-services/statistics/data-visualization/us-consumer-expenditure-summary .
7  https://www.iea.org/reports/sdg7-data-and-projections/access-to-electricity .
8  https://www.worldbank.org/en/news/press-release/2021/06/07/report-universal-access-to-sustainable-energy-will-remain-elusive-without-addressing-inequalities .
9  https://www.worldatlas.com/articles/countries-with-the-lowest-access-to-electricity.html .
10  https://www.iea.org/reports/sdg7-data-and-projections/access-to-clean-cooking .
11  IEA, et al., https://iea.blob.core.windows.net/assets/9a67c2fc-b605-4994-8eb5-29a0ac219499/WEO2017SpecialReport_EnergyAccessOutlook.pdf , p. 57.
12  https://oneill.indiana.edu/doc/research/energy-insecurity-survey-june-2020.pdf?_ga=2.256794316.617866999.1592234109-1468293896.1585660132 .
13  https://gispub.epa.gov/air/trendsreport/2020/#growth_w_cleaner_air .
14  https://gispub.epa.gov/air/trendsreport/2020/#growth_w_cleaner_air .
15  EIA, www.eia.gov/environment/emissions/carbon/ .
16  EIA, https://www.eia.gov/todayinenergy/detail.php?id=47236 . 
17  Energy sources have changed throughout the history of the United States - Today in Energy - U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) .
18  We focus on emissions intensity metrics, rather than on gross tonnage of emissions, to gauge our performance in controlling emissions and improving operational 
efficiency. We do not develop targets based on gross greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reductions because they are skewed by numerous variables, including the 
divestiture or acquisition of facilities, commencement of new facilities, declining gas and oil production at old facilities, and changes in equipment, regulations and/or 
transport availability. Emissions intensity accounts for and normalizes these kinds of operational changes over time.
19  Based on IPIECA’s Sustainability Reporting Guidance for the Oil and Gas Industry (2020).
20  Issues are grouped by topical categories that align with APA’s approach to ESG issues, not in order of importance or priority.Endnotes
Governance93
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report93 APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
Appendix
Key Performance Data    94
Awards and Recognitions    9 6
Board Matrix    97
Water Scarcity Maps    98Our TCFD Analysis    99
AXPC ESG Metrics Template                    106 
Reporting Standards and Frameworks                   10794
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportUnits 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
GLOBAL GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS1
Operated emissions3 (Scope 1) Thousand tCO2e  6,280 7,3002 7,580  6,890  7,440
Carbon dioxide Thousand tCO2e  4,830  5,6002  5,770  5,080  5,170 
Methane Thousand tCO2e  1,400  1,6502 1,760  1,760  2,220 
Nitrous oxide Thousand tCO2e  50  50  50  50  50 
Operated direct emissions (Scope 1) by source
Flaring Thousand tCO2e  1,480 2,0602 1,970  2,010  2,020 
Venting Thousand tCO2e  420  4302 810  660  730 
Fuel combustion Thousand tCO2e  3,550  3,7902  3,920  3,280  3,470 
Fugitives Thousand tCO2e  830  1,0202  880  940  1,220 
Operated indirect emissions (Scope 2) Thousand tCO2e  490  690  800  850  1,100 
GLOBAL EMISSIONS INTENSITIES4
Global GHG emissions intensity tCO2e/Mboe  15.9  17.9222.2 21.5 21.7
Global methane emissions intensity % 0.28 0.3320.40 0.42 0.48
GLOBAL ENERGY USE
Energy use Thousand MWh  4,880  5,0202  5,320  4,730  5,200 
Combustion energy Thousand MWh  3,730  3,9802  4,120  3,450  3,650 
Electricity Thousand MWh  1,150  1,040  1,200  1,280  1,550 
GLOBAL WATER USE BY SOURCE
Total water consumption5Thousand Bbls  11,100  114,521  125,380  124,203  109,999 
Freshwater consumption5Million Bbls  1,526  25,440  27,996  32,920  29,850 
Groundwater Million Bbls  1,526  24,308  23,850  26,999  23,587 
Surface water Million Bbls  —  407  2,386  2,513  3,299 
Municipal water Million Bbls  —    725  1,759  3,407  2,965 
Nonfreshwater consumption Million Bbls  9,575  89,082  97,384  91,284  80,149 
Groundwater consumption5Million Bbls  9,575  88,043  97,384  90,523  80,149 
Surface water consumption5Million Bbls  —    1,039  —  761  —   
Total water used in production6Million Bbls  593,720  524,888  603,953  566,484  676,174 
Total recycled/reused6Million Bbls 582,620 410,367 478,572 442,281 566,175
Enhanced oil recovery (EOR) reused6Million Bbls 577,542 379,943 446,710 428,865 563,425
Hydraulic fracturing recycled/reused6Million Bbls 5,078 30,424 31,863 13,416 2,750
Produced water sent for injection disposal6Million Bbls 238,208 346,758 197,484 205,713 251,586
GLOBAL WATER METRICS
Freshwater consumption % 14 22 22 27 27
Nonfreshwater consumption % 86 78 78 73 73
Produced water recycled/reused % 62 44 55 52 54
Produced + nonfreshwater as a percent of total    
water usage% 99.7 95.2 95.4 94.2 95.6
Fresh water as a percent of total water usage % 0.3 4.8 4.6 5.8 4.4
Fresh water consumption intensity bbls/boe 0.01 0.76 0.87 0.97 0.77
U.S. HYDRAULIC FRACTURING WATER USE
Nonfreshwater %  59  12  22  20  17 
Produced water captured for reuse %  31  51  46  27  13 
Freshwater use %  9  37  32  53  70 
SPILLS
Hydrocarbon spills No. >1 barrel    
in size302 187  341  302  299 
HEALTH AND SAFETY
Hours worked - workforce Million hours 36 53  54  53  44 
Employee Total Recordable Incident Rate Per 200,000 
hours worked0.27 0.09  0.28  0.24  0.19 
Contractor Total Recordable Incident RatePer 200,000 
hours worked0.58 0.54  0.80  0.67  0.69 
Workforce Total Recordable Incident Rate Per 200,000 
hours worked0.48 0.41  0.65  0.56  0.52 
Employee Days Away, Restricted or Transferred Rate Per 200,000 
hours worked0.13 0.07  0.17  0.10  0.09 
Contractor Days Away, Restricted or           
Transferred RatePer 200,000 
hours worked0.28 0.21  0.40  0.28  0.37 
Workforce Days Away, Restricted or                 
Transferred RatePer 200,000 
hours worked0.23 0.17  0.33  0.23  0.27 
Vehicle Incident Rate Per million       
miles driven0.83 0.79  1.29  1.24  1.41 
Workforce fatalities # 3 7 1 4 2
Employee fatalities # 0 1 0 0 0
Contractor fatalities # 3 6 1 4 2Key Performance DataAppendix95
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportKey Performance Data (CONTINUED)
Units 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
OUR PEOPLE
Global full-time employees #  2,272  3,163  3,420  3,358  3,726 
U.S. #  1,430  2,132  2,441  2,411  2,220 
U.K. #  598  638  590  560  623 
Egypt #  237  385  388  386  394 
Suriname #  7  8  1  1  1 
Canada7# —   —   —   —  488 
GLOBAL GENDER MIX
Total female employees % 22.1
U.S. % 27.0
U.K. % 12.0
Egypt % 17.0
Suriname % 14.0
Total male employees % 77.9
Female employees in leadership positions8% 17.6
GLOBAL AGE BREAKDOWN  (TOTAL EMPLOYEES)
29 and under % 9.9
30 - 50 % 60.5
Over 50 % 29.6
U.S. ETHNICITY MIX (TOTAL U.S. EMPLOYEES)
White % 66.9
Black % 6.0
Asian % 6.8
Hispanic % 18.6
Other % 1.7
U.S. ETHNICITY MIX OF LEADERSHIP8
White % 77.8
Black % 3.0
Asian % 6.3
Hispanic % 11.5
Other % 1.4
ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTIONS
Total local vendor spend $ Million  962  1,553  1,443  1,090  869 
Total global vendor spend $ Million  2,324  4,116  4,615  4,071  2,950 
Local spend percentage % 41 38  31  27  29 
SOCIAL INVESTING
Community9% 77 74 76 76 82
Environmental Stewardship % 21 26 24 24 18
Access to Energy10% 2 0 0 0 0
FINANCIAL AND PRODUCTION HIGHLIGHTS
Oil and gas production revenues $ Million  4,040  6,315  7,348  5,887  5,367 
Natural gas production MMcf/d  893  980  966  958  1,103 
Oil and natural gas liquids production Mbbls/d  291  310  305  298  338 
Proved reserves MMboe  874  1,011  1,234  1,175  1,311 
1 Our emissions are determined using engineering calculations and methods outlined by 
applicable regulations.
2 Our 2019 emissions data per the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Subpart W 
requirements were recalculated and re-submitted to the EPA in 2021; the data in this table 
has been restated to reflect those changes.
3 Operated emissions include Scope 1 emissions calculated under applicable regulatory 
requirements and boundaries in the U.S. and U.K. For operations within the U.S., Scope 1 
emissions include emissions reported to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency under 
Subpart C and Subpart W.
4 Global intensities were calculated using Scope 1 emissions from production and gathering 
and boosting operations in APA’s U.S. and U.K. operating areas and Egypt joint venture 
operations and associated gross production.
5 For 2020 reporting, in line with GRI and IPIECA guidance on consumptive uses of water, we 
have modified the way we report water data compared to previous years, including restating 
data from past years (2016-2019). Previously, we included produced water usage in our 
consumptive use calculations. Based on our re-evaluation of water reporting definitions and guidance, we determined that produced water — nonpotable water released from deep 
underground formations and brought to the surface during oil and gas exploration and 
production — should not be classified as consumed in the same sense as fresh water.
6 Recycled/reused water categorization by operational use is new in 2020, and provided for 
years 2016-2019. APA operates a number of secondary recovery fields that utilize waterflood 
drives that reuse produced water. For APA's hydraulic fracturing operations, produced water 
reuse is defined as water that is reused directly without treatment; produced water recycled is 
defined as water that is treated before reuse, and is therefore recycled. 
7 Canada assets were sold in August 2017.
8 Leadership role defined as supervisor level and above or equivalent.   
9 Community charitable giving includes the following areas: Education; Health & Well-Being; 
First Responders & U.S. Military Support; Women, Youth & Family Services; Community 
Resources; and Arts.
10 Providing access to energy for communities in developing nations, as well as addressing 
reliability and affordability of energy in developed countries.Key
Bbls:         barrels of water
Bbls/boe:         barrels of water per barrels of oil equivalent
tCO2e/Mboe:    tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per thousands of   
            barrels of oil equivalentMWh:         megawatt hour 
MMcf/d:             millions of cubic feet of natural gas per day
Mbbls/d:         thousands of barrels of oil or NGL per day
MMboe:        millions of barrels of oil equivalentAppendix96
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportWe are proud to be frequently recognized by third parties for our sustainability efforts, from our work to mitigate 
our impacts on the environment to the social causes we support. Recent awards include the following:Awards and Recognitions
One of the World’s 
Most Admired Companies
FORTUNE
One of the World’s 
Most Admired Companies
FORTUNE
Trendsetter in Political 
Disclosure and Accountability
CPA-Zicklin Index of Corporate Political 
Disclosure and Accountability
Trendsetter in Political 
Disclosure and Accountability
CPA-Zicklin Index of Corporate Political 
Disclosure and Accountability2020 Best Safety Results 
(Sam Croft Drillship) 
Noble Services LLCE&P Explorer of the Year for 2020 
Wood Mackenzie2021
Winning “W” Company for 2019  
2020 Women on Boards
Beit El Helm Award for Best Corporate 
Social Responsibility Practice 
Wataneya Society
2020
Appendix97
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportAnnell 
BayJohn 
ChristmannJuliet     
EllisChansoo 
JoungJohn 
LoweLamar 
McKayWilliam 
MontgomeryAmy     
NelsonDaniel 
RabunPeter 
Ragauss
KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE  
Public Company CEO Experience   
Public Company CFO Experience 
Executive Experience      
Financial Reporting         
Risk Management        
Accounting                       
Corporate Governance/Ethics       
Environmental/Regulatory    
Legal  
Global Experience        
Operations                             
Strategic Planning/Oversight      
Mergers and Acquisitions      
Upstream Experience       
Midstream Experience      
DEMOGRAPHIC BACKGROUND  
Ethnic Minority 
Gender (male/female) F M F M M M M F M M
Age in Years (as of April April 13, 2021) 65 54 62 61 62 62 59 52 66 63
Board Tenure (year joined) 2014 2015 2019 2011 2013 2021 2011 2014 2015 2014
Number of Public Company Boards       
including APA3 1 2 2 3 2 2 3 3 2The table displays the experiences, diversity and tenure of APA Corporation’s (APA) Board of DirectorsBoard MatrixAppendix98
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportEgypt
SurinameU.S.
U.K. North SeaWhen appropriate, we utilize various data sources such as the U.S. Drought Monitor and the World Resources 
Institute’s Aqueduct tool to confirm our assessment of water-scarce areas within our operations.
The examples shown below are created by applying the water scarcity mapping tools to the GIS layers of      
APA-operated areas as of June 30, 2021.
This map excludes 
APA operations in the 
Gulf of Mexico.EgyptLibya
TEXASKANSAS
OKLAHOMA
NEW MEXICOARKANSASMISSOURI
LOUISIANAMISSISSIPPICOLORADOILLINOIS
TENNESSEEKENTUCKY
BrazilGuyanaVenezuela
Suriname
French GuianaTrinidad and TobagoBarbados
GrenadaSaint Vincent and the Grenadines
United KingdomNorwayWater Scarcity Maps
APA OperationsWater Risk Level
Apache Low Low - Medium Medium - High High Extremely HighWater Risk Level
Low Low-Medium Medium-High High Extremely High
 Apache Low Low - Medium Medium - High High Extremely HighWater Risk Level
Apache Low Low - Medium Medium - High High Extremely HighWater Risk Level
Apache Low Low - Medium Medium - High High Extremely HighWater Risk Level
Apache Low Low - Medium Medium - High High Extremely HighWater Risk Level
Apache Low Low - Medium Medium - High High Extremely HighWater Risk LevelAppendix99
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportClimate change influences our operations from a regulatory, 
lending and investment perspective. For this reason, the highest 
levels of our leadership team, including senior management and 
the Board of Directors, oversees our planning process.
Growing investor interest in how companies are assessing and 
managing climate change-related risks is reflected in the 
development of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures, which was created by the Financial Stability Board, 
an international body founded to support financial stability 
worldwide. For the oil and gas industry, concerns include the 
impact of new regulations, changes in energy demand and 
competition from lower-carbon energy sources.
We continue to increase our disclosures about how we identify 
and address climate change-related risks. In this year’s 
sustainability report, we have further expanded our reporting. It 
is now aligned more closely with the TCFD’s recommendations 
to disclose information on climate change-related governance, 
strategy and risk management, as well as metrics and targets 
(see p. 112 for an index of TCFD-related disclosures throughout 
the report).
GOVERNANCE
Our Board of Directors and senior management are directly 
engaged in assessing and managing climate change-related 
risks and opportunities. The Board’s Audit Committee oversees 
the risk management process (described in more detail below 
and on p. 82), which includes management of climate change-
related business, legal and regulatory risks. The Corporate 
Responsibility, Governance & Nominating Committee oversees 
management and performance on environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) issues, including the content of this report. 
The Board’s Management Development & Compensation 
committee has also taken steps that link ESG performance to 
compensation for all employees.
In addition to the work of these committees, the full Board 
receives regular updates on climate change-related topics, 
including risk management, greenhouse gas (GHG) emission 
management, ESG third-party ratings and overall ESG 
performance. The Board also regularly invites outside experts on ESG issues to provide ongoing education and differing 
perspectives.
In 2020, we announced goals specific to GHG emissions   
and natural gas flaring, as well as freshwater use, the United 
Nations Sustainable Development Goals and workforce training. 
The combined weighting of ESG-focused performance metrics, 
including health and safety goals, equals 20% of annual 
short-term incentive compensation for all employees. We 
consider ESG matters — including climate change-related 
issues — as critical areas to identify, track and mitigate risk. 
Read more on our prioritizing and managing ESG initiatives on 
pp. 10-14.
STRATEGY
We are committed to producing energy safely and responsibly. 
Core tenets of what this means to us include: 
• We work every day to reduce our environmental footprint, 
operate safely and increase the benefits we provide to the 
communities where we live and work.
• A key part of our corporate vision is to be the premier 
exploration and production (E&P) company. That extends 
beyond financial results: It begins and ends with having the 
best safety and environmental record.
• We are focused on reducing emissions across our operations. 
We have programs for preventing, identifying and eliminating 
methane leaks. We reduced our global methane emissions 
intensity by 41% from 2016 to 2020 and reduced our global 
GHG emissions intensity by 27% over the same timeframe.
• To further reduce our GHG emissions, in 2018 we began 
implementing automated well closure systems that reduce 
flaring.
• We are using clean-burning natural gas and electricity instead 
of diesel to power our field operations where practicable, 
which reduces fuel consumption and localized air emissions.
• In 2021, we set a goal to end routine flaring and reduce our 
flaring intensity to less than 1% in our U.S. onshore 
operations, and we continue to pursue further emission 
reductions in our worldwide assets.Our TCFD Analysis
Assessment of opportunities and risks presented by climate change is  
core to our business planning and enterprise risk management systems. Appendix100
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportThe following tables provide a summary of the key risks and opportunities we have identified and are working to address now and into 
the future.
Climate-related Transition Risks
Type Risks Potential Impacts and ResponsesPOLICY AND LEGALChanges in Regulation
• U.S. policy on carbon taxes or cap and trade
• Federal permit ban
• State-based emissions regulations
• Alignment with Paris Agreement• Changes in asset base
• Decreased asset diversification
• Increased use of technology, including electrification and enhanced oil 
recovery (EOR)
Changes in National Policies
• Biden Administration’s Climate Pledge
• U.K. Carbon Budget
• National hydraulic fracturing bans
• National water policies on freshwater usage limits• Shift in operational areas
• Enhanced water recovery and reuse
• Increased community engagement and reporting
• Stranded assets
Changes in Tax Programs
• Elimination of exploration tax incentives for oil and gas
• Increased alternative energy tax incentives• Capital planning changes
• Support for growth in emerging markets and economies
• Increased costs of complianceTECHNOLOGY AND 
MARKETEquipment and Technology
• Costs of installing lower-emission production and 
transportation technology
• Alternative fuel density technologies that ease the transition 
from fossil fuels to alternatives
• Disruptive technologies in energy generation and/or 
transportation• More efficient energy use, leading to a decrease in demand
• Failure to keep up with technology advancementsREPUTATIONStigma of Fossil Fuels 
• Stakeholder withdrawal of investment due to ESG-related 
concerns
• Climate change litigation and publicity
• Loss of supply chain due to market and energy transition • Increased availability of green/ESG-linked lending
• Increased dependence on midstream companies
• Decreased company appeal to emerging workforce talentScenario-Planning Framework
New in 2021, we are initiating a scenario-planning analysis 
aligned with TCFD recommendations. While scenario planning 
is embedded in our ongoing business and risk management 
processes, our expanded use of climate-specific scenario-
planning framework included market-based forecasts of future 
demand, pricing in energy markets, and changes in government 
regulations and policy. We consider a range of pricing scenarios 
when forming our long-term investment and development 
plans. These include scenarios in a carbon-constrained world 
that assess the potential climate-related risks and opportunities 
that may impact fossil fuel supply and demand. Our analysis 
includes the input of experts from several internal functional 
areas for a more rigorous, multidisciplinary planning scenario. 
Among external sources, we reference the International   Energy Agency’s (IEA) World Energy Outlook (WEO). The  
2020 WEO report included analysis of the global impact of the 
COVID-19 pandemic on demand in the energy sector. 
Given the dynamic nature of our business, we believe that 
scenario analyses should be conducted over five-year 
timeframes. The TCFD analysis, however, prescribes timeframes 
of 20 years or more. We also see the need for climate-related 
financial analysis that includes longer-scenario consideration. 
For our five-year planning cycles, we rely on both internal and 
external data analysis. When analyzing TCFD scenarios, we also 
rely on external analysis for demand, carbon pricing and 
comparison-pricing scenarios, which we compare to our 
base-case pricing analysis projected out to 2040.Appendix101
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportClimate-related Physical Risks
Type Risks Potential ImpactsACUTEOnshore
• Severe temperature changes (e.g., 2021 Winter Storm Uri)
• Seasonal droughts
• Tornados or other severe storms
Offshore
• Hurricanes and tropical storms• Enhanced requirements for asset hardening
• Increased focus on emergency contingency planning and preparation
• Increased cooperation and integration with community partners
• Damage to assets and communities
• Changes in population distribution and settlement patterns
• Shrinking of local economies
• Reduced access to local talentCHRONICOnshore
• Changes in rainfall or weather patterns
• Extended droughts and temperature changes 
• Changes in water availability patterns (surface water           
and groundwater)
• Biodiversity and species listings
Offshore
• Rising sea levels
• Sea temperature change and current-related changes• Damage to equipment or impaired access to offshore platforms
• Increased costs related to additional operational expenses and 
insurance premiums for offshore or nearshore operations
• Operational disruptions due to supply chain or impairment of crew 
change operations during weather events
Climate-related Opportunities
Type Opportunities Potential ImpactsRESOURCE 
EFFICIENCY• Transportation fuel-related improvements                                
(in miles-per-gallon ratings)
• Improved resource capture due to reduced GHG emissions
• Increased recovery of hydrocarbons from the reservoir• Additional product can be delivered to market
• Project economies that increase the potential to expand operations
• Decreased emissions within company vehicle fleet and operations 
equipmentENERGY SOURCE• Increased demand for natural gas for power generation
• Development of economic demand for hydrogen and 
hydrogen-based technologies
• Utilization of field gas-generated power for drilling and 
completion equipment
• Portable, non-grid connected power• Collaboration with midstream and downstream companies
• Increased expectations for enhanced reliability
• Decreased emissions from operationsPRODUCTS 
AND SERVICES• Development of new markets for refined products offsetting 
reduction of transportation fuel demand
• Premium pricing for delivery of certified, responsibly 
extracted resources 
• Development of commercial carbon capture utilization and 
storage (CCUS) market in aging oil fields around the world• Focus on green label products and enhanced ESG certification
• Conversion and retrofitting of assets to capture CO 2
• Extended life of assetsMARKETS• Expanding fossil fuel markets in developing economies 
throughout the world
• Development of hydrogen and CCUS markets 
• Access to green bonds and capital to expand ESG efforts 
related to hydrogen, CCUS and water recycling
• Identification of changing regulatory environments to 
understand market development• Emergence of exportation assets 
• Increased focus on reliability and output
• Identification of ESG key performance indicators and projects tied to 
green lending
• Partnerships to reduce societal GHG emissionsRESILIENCE• Transition of current EOR and water disposal practices to 
CCUS for industrial segments
• Hydrogen from natural gas
• Expansion of local supply chains in developing countries to 
ensure the necessary tools to maintain operations
• Development of localized staff to ensure employee attraction 
and maintain the workforce• Increased demand across operations footprint
• Support to local policy makers for advancing technologies
• Changes in recruiting, retention and workforce development
• Increased spend and development in local communitiesAppendix102
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportFrom the WEO, we identified the three scenarios used in our 
base-case pricing analysis:
1. Stated Policies Scenario (STEPS) — reflects all  
countries’ announced carbon policy intentions and targets 
as of 2020, and assumes that the global pandemic is 
brought under control in 2021, and that global energy 
demand and economic recovery occurs in early 2023. This 
scenario sees strong growth in renewable energy for 
electricity demand, offsetting the use of coal to less than 
20% by 2040.
2. Delayed Recovery Scenario (DRS)  — reflects all 
countries’ announced carbon policy intentions and targets 
as of 2020 (existing regulations of all Paris Agreement 
signatory countries are identified as STEPS) and assumes 
global economic recovery from the COVID-19 crisis is 
delayed through the year 2023.
3. Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS)  — assumes 
additional policy incentives and targets greater action in 
climate change improvement measures, which is 
anticipated to limit the global rise in temperature to a less 
than 2 oC scenario. Carbon pricing is discounted from 
crude oil pricing, following the same logic as our base case.
Our Base Case Scenario — This scenario is an assessment of 
our business perspective with a below 2 oC scenario analysis of 
fossil fuel demand, carbon pricing by country, and associated 
market factors influencing our operations. For this scenario, we 
established a Crude Oil Pricing assumption of WTI/Brent blend, 
based on $53 per barrel in 2021, escalating to $54 in 2030 and 
$55 in 2040. Carbon pricing is discounted from crude oil 
pricing by applying a price equal to the SDS carbon price for 
advanced economies to a weighted average production of the 
U.S. portion of our global annual production portfolio. Carbon 
pricing is not applied to the North Sea, because the carbon 
pricing costs coupled with net-zero incentives from the U.K. 
government are assumed to be enough to drive electrification of 
those assets in our portfolio.
Our planning focus is based on our ability to supply product to 
market. We monitor the demand scenario predictions and how 
they could affect the supply we provide. In the 2020 WEO 
analysis, STEPS (and DRS) are based on the same demand 
projection, resulting in a cumulative growth for fossil fuels under 
both scenarios of 1.29 billion tonnes of oil equivalent (Btoe) 
from 2019 to 2040. This creates an increasing oil price for both 
scenarios from 2019 to 2040, with the STEPS 2040 price 
reaching $85 per barrel and the DRS 2040 price reaching  
$72 per barrel. Our base-case scenario takes a more 
conservative approach to pricing than the STEPS scenario. Our 
2021 pricing is set at $53 for mixed WTI/Brent blend and 
escalates to $55 in 2040, based on a shifting blend to more 
heavily weighted and slightly higher realized pricing of Brent-weighted portfolios in later years of the analysis. The 2020 SDS 
scenario is the only assessed scenario in which demand for oil 
is shown to decrease and oil prices decline as well. In the SDS 
scenario, mixed WTI/Brent blend pricing decreases by $10 per 
barrel from 2019 to 2040, with a final 2040 price of $53 
pre-carbon price reduction.
WTI/ Brent Blend Equivalent Break-Even Price $/bbl (2020)
Egypt$0$10$20$30$40$50$60WTI / Brent Blend Price $/BBL (2020)$70$80
North Sea Midland Basin Delaware BasinOur Base Case Avg. 2020-2040 
Applicable Carbon PricingIEA Delayed Recovery Scenario (DRS) Avg. 2020-2040IEA Stated Policies Scenario (STEPS) Avg. 2020-2040
IEA Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS) Avg. 2020-2040
Applicable Carbon Pricing
$48$64$76
$50
$26 *$33 *$36 *$40 *ASSET SCENARIO-PLANNING ASSESSMENT
*  Break-even pricing is from 2021 Wood Mackenzie reports for Apache’s  
Egypt and North Sea fields. The UK North Sea sector includes the break-even 
Final Investment Decision (FID) estimate for brownfield development. The 
2021 Enverus Haynesville Play Fundamentals report provided the Delaware 
and Midland Basins half-cycle average break-even estimates (for horizontal 
wells only).Appendix103
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
Forecasting future pricing relies heavily on assumptions about 
demand. Even when evaluating the impacts of climate-based 
scenario analysis, the fundamental consideration is demand. 
One of the critical issues influencing future analysis in the 
current global perspective is the pressure placed on upstream 
oil and gas operators to shift to alternative energy production. 
These efforts fail to address the current and future demand for 
fossil fuels and have the potential to have a paramount impact 
on future pricing. A reduction in supply that is not driven by a 
corresponding reduction in market demand for the product is 
likely to result in future price increases, rather than decreases, 
as predicted in the SDS scenario.
We proactively manage our asset mix to mitigate exposure to 
carbon risk. Our portfolio consists of a diversified, global 
resource base, not a pure-play, single-region asset. We 
currently have active development onshore in the U.S. and 
Egypt, and offshore in the U.K. North Sea. This multibasin asset 
portfolio enables us to shift capital investment to or from 
certain assets in response to changes in geographic commodity 
prices, local regulations, energy demand, supply-side issues or 
other market factors. Coupled with our relentless focus on 
being a low-cost producer and resource-efficient operator, we 
believe this approach reduces carbon risk and helps us optimize 
our capital in response to price signals and the market’s energy 
needs. The outcome of this can be seen in our asset scenario 
planning assessment chart, which compares projected break-even prices for operating basins from third-party 
assessors (Wood Mackenzie and Enverus) to the average 
realized WTI/Brent blend equivalent pricing for 2021-2040 
from the four scenarios. Even in the two cases burdened by a 
weighted average carbon price for the U.S. onshore asset 
portfolio, all of our operating areas have break-even margins 
that exceed $10 per barrel.
103 APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report 103 APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportAppendix104
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report
Projected Demand for Oil and Natural Gas 
Under the IEA’s World Energy Outlook 2020*
Projected Combined Carbon Emissions for Oil and  
Natural Gas Under the IEA’s World Energy Outlook 2020**
IEA STEPS Oil and Gas Demand Scenario
IEA STEPS Combined Annual Oil and Natural Gas IEA SDS Combined Annual Oil and Natural GasIEA SDS Oil and Gas Demand Scenario
2019 2019 2025 2025 2030 2030 2040
2019 2025 2030 204020400
0 00
5,000 5,0002
10,000 10,0002
15,000 15,0004 46 6Primary Eneregy Demand (Btoe) CO2 Emissions (Mt)
CO2 Emissions (Mt) Primary Eneregy Demand (Btoe)10
25,000 25,00010
20,000 20,0008 8
2019 2025 2030 2040Natural Gas Oil Natural Gas Oil 
Natural Gas Oil Natural Gas Oil *  IEA, World Energy Outlook 2020, pp. 338-339
**  IEA, World Energy Outlook 2020, pp. 344-345Appendix105
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportNatural Gas Oil RISK MANAGEMENT
Our comprehensive scenario analyses are integrated into 
certain risk management activities, which include participation 
of pertinent senior managers and executives.
We also have a risk management function focused specifically 
on health, safety, environmental and security risks — including 
issues that are potential climate-related risks. This team works 
together with our personnel to identify, understand and mitigate 
risks across our operations. People at all levels of the company 
in multiple departments participate in analyzing the potential 
impacts of climate change-related risks on our business, to 
provide comprehensive risk management.
Managing Climate Change-related  
Opportunities and Risks
We are developing approaches to operational processes   
that lower costs, reduce our environmental footprint and 
optimize capitalization of natural gas in a lower-carbon energy 
future, including:
• Committed to reducing methane emissions (see p. 18).
• Employing leak detection and repair programs using the  
latest equipment and technologies to reduce methane losses 
(see p. 18). 
• Addressing GHG emissions from our operations by reducing 
flaring and powering our equipment with electricity, where 
practicable (see pp. 18-19).
• Working to address the potential physical impacts to our 
operations posed by climate change. For example, to mitigate 
the risk of reduced water supplies critical to our operations, 
we are continuing efforts to optimize water recycling, 
especially in water-scarce areas (see pp. 24-26).
• Collaborating with industry, government and 
nongovernmental partners to encourage others in our 
industry to reduce emissions and to develop more effective 
technologies to do so. 
• As a founding member of the ONE Future Coalition, working 
with a group of more than 45 companies across the natural 
gas value chain that is focused on reducing methane losses 
by 2025 to less than 1% of total methane production from the 
wellhead through to the point of use.
• As a member of the American Petroleum Institute’s (API’s) 
The Environmental Partnership , working together with a 
group of U.S. oil and gas companies to address environmental 
challenges and further improve environmental performance 
in our industry (see p. 22 for more information on these 
partnerships).METRICS AND TARGETS
We use a wide range of metrics and targets to assess and drive 
our performance in managing climate change-related risks, in 
particular our ability to reduce operational GHG emissions. We 
measure our progress in reducing GHG and methane emissions 
based on intensity metrics (emissions per unit of production) 
rather than gross emissions, because intensity metrics provide 
a more comparable year-over-year measure of our performance 
that is not skewed by changes in activity levels, acquisitions and 
divestitures and other factors. We measure and report our GHG 
emissions as total CO 2 equivalents and by primary gas type, 
including CO2, methane and nitrous oxide (see pp. 20-21 for 
methane and GHG emissions performance data).
To drive performance improvements, we adopted a U.S. 
onshore flaring target of zero routine flaring in 2021, and a net 
U.S. flaring of less than 1% of gross production company wide. 
As a member of the ONE Future Coalition, we were part of the 
upstream oil and gas producers that set a global methane 
emissions intensity target to emit 0.37% or less of gross 
methane production by 2025, and in 2019, we achieved this 
target. In 2019, through the API’s The Environmental 
Partnership, we made three additional commitments toward 
reducing our methane emissions: implementing a leak detection 
program at all relevant sites by 2024; replacing high-bleed 
pneumatic controllers with low- or zero-emitting devices by 
2024; and implementing a monitoring and emissions reduction 
program for liquids unloading. Progress on all of these 
commitments can be found on p. 22.
Appendix106
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportAXPC ESG Metrics Template
   2020 *
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
Methane Intensity  
Methane Emissions (Metric tons CH 4)/Gross annual production —  Climate (MBoe)   0.22
Percent of Methane Emissions Attributed to Boosting and Gathering Segment 13%
GHG Intensity  
GHG Emissions (Metric tons CO 2e)/Gross annual production —  Climate (MBoe) 10.97
Percent of GHG Emissions Attributed to Boosting and Gathering Segment 18%
FLARING
Percentage of Gas Flared per Mcf of Gas Produced  
Gross Annual Volume of Flared Gas (Mcf)/Gross Annual Gas Production (Mcf)1.52%
Volume of Gas Flared per Barrel of Oil Equivalent Produced  
Gross Annual Volume of Flared Gas (Mcf)/Gross Annual Production (BOE) 0.03
SPILLS
Spill Intensity  
Produced Liquids Spilled (Bbl)/Total Produced Liquids (MBbl) 0.034
WATER USE
Fresh Water Intensity  
Fresh Water Consumed (Bbl)/Gross Annual Production (Boe) 0.16
Water Recycle Rate  
Recycled Water (Bbl)/Total Water Consumed (Bbl)28%
Does your company use WRI Aqueduct, GEMI, Water Risk Filter, Water Risk Monetizer, or other comparable tool            
or methodology to determine the water-stressed areas in your portfolio? Yes
SAFETY
Employee TRIR  
# of Employee OSHA Recordable Cases x 200,000 / Annual Employee Workhours 0.35
Contractor TRIR  
# of Contractor OSHA Recordable Cases x 200,000 / Annual Contractor Workhours  0.48
Combined TRIR  
# of Combined OSHA Recordable Cases x 200,000 / Annual Combined Workhours0.44
* These metrics represent U.S. operations only, as prescribed and agreed upon by AXPC members.
To provide investors and the public with transparency and consistency for key upstream ESG indicators, AXPC launched the AXPC 
ESG Metrics Framework and Template in February 2021. These are available for use on a voluntary basis in sustainability reporting 
beginning in 2021.
AXPC’s ESG Metrics and Framework centers around five key metrics groupings that AXPC members believe are essential to capture in 
promoting more consistent reporting across its member companies — Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions, Flaring, Spills, Water Use 
and Safety. 
Reporting Company: Apache Corporation
Reporting Period: 2020Appendix107
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report   Disc. # Disclosure Title Location in Report/Response/Omission
GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES (2016)
102-1 Name of the organization p. 3
102-2 Activities, brands, products and services p. 4
2020 Form 10-K , p. 1
102-3 Location of headquarters APA Corporation is headquartered in Houston, Texas.
102-4 Location of operations p. 4
2020 Form 10-K , p. 1
102-5 Ownership and legal form 2020 Form 10-K , p. 1
102-6 Markets served 2020 Form 10-K , pp. 2-6
102-7 Scale of the organization 2020 Form 10-K , pp. 2-8, 12, 36-38
102-8 Information on employees and other workers pp. 13, 42, 46-47, 94-95
2020 Form 10-K , pp. 12-14                                                              
102-9 Supply chain pp. 71, 95                                                              
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain pp. 3, 42
2020 Form 10-K , p. F-21
Apache sold its assets in the Granite Wash, Tonkawa, 
Marmaton, Cleveland and other formations of the western 
Anadarko Basin; the Canyon Lime formation in the Texas 
pandhandle; and the Woodford-SCOOP and STACK plays 
located in central Oklahoma.
102-11 Precautionary principle or approach pp. 10-12, 61
102-12 External initiatives pp. 10, 12, 15-16, 22, 30, 33-34, 66-67
102-13 Membership of associations pp. 10, 16, 86
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker p. 6
102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities pp. 6-10, 13-14, 73, 90-91
2020 Form 10-K , pp. 18-30                                                               
102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior                                                     pp. 2, 83-85
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
FCPA and Anti-Corruption Compliance Guide
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics p. 83
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
102-18 Governance structure pp. 10-11, 81, 97
Corporate Governance Principles
102-19 Delegating authority pp. 80-86
102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics p. 10                                                
Sustainability issues, including health, safety, security, 
environment, community affairs and human resources, are 
overseen by the vice president of Environment, Health and 
Safety, senior vice president of Administration, and vice 
president of Corporate Communications and Public Affairs.
102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental and social topics pp. 10-12, 63, 72, 87
102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees pp. 81, 97  
2021 Proxy Statement , pp. 3, 11-12  
Corporate Governance Principles  
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body pp. 10-11, 81, 97
2021 Proxy Statement , pp. 5, 9               
Corporate Governance Principles
102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 2021 Proxy Statement , pp. 9, 12-13 
Corporate Governance Principles , p. 3 
102-25 Conflicts of interest 2021 Proxy Statement , p. 53
Code of Business Conduct and EthicsGlobal Reporting Initiative (GRI) Content IndexThis report was prepared using the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards and is in accordance with the 
GRI Standards at the core level. We also include indicators from IPIECA’s Sustainability Reporting Guidance for the Oil and Gas Industry , 
the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board’s Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Sustainability Accounting Standard , 
recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures, and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.Reporting Standards and FrameworksAppendix108
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report   Disc. # Disclosure Title Location in Report/Response/Omission
102-26 Role of the highest governance body in setting purpose, values and strategy pp. 10, 81
2021 Proxy Statement , p. 53
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
Corporate Governance Principles  
102-27 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body pp. 10-11, 80-81, 97 
Corporate Governance Principles , pp. 1-2
102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance Corporate Governance Principles , p. 4
102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental and  social impacts pp. 10-14, 72-74, 90-91 
2021 Proxy Statement , pp. 10-12
102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes pp. 61, 80, 82 
2021 Proxy Statement , pp. 10-11, 57
102-31 Review of economic, environmental and social topics pp. 10-14, 72-74, 90-91 
2021 Proxy Statement , pp. 10-12
102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting The Board of Directors’ Corporate Responsibility, 
Governance & Nominating Committee oversees discussion 
of the most important sustainability topics covered in this 
report. The report is reviewed and approved by select 
members of our executive team, as well as our Internal 
Audit function (described on p. 82).
102-33 Communicating critical concerns p. 83 
2021 Proxy Statement , p. 9 
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics              
102-35 Remuneration policies 2021 Proxy Statement , pp. 23-43
102-36 Process for determining remuneration 2021 Proxy Statement , pp. 23-51
102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 2021 Proxy Statement , pp. 23-51
102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 2021 Proxy Statement , p. 52
102-40 List of stakeholder groups pp. 10, 87-90
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 2021 Proxy Statement , p. 41
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders pp. 10, 72, 87-88, 90                                                           
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement pp. 72, 87-90
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised pp. 12-14, 73, 74, 87, 90-91
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 2020 Form 10-K , pp. 1-7, 11-12
102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries p. 90
We determined the content for this report based on the 
issues we understand to be most important to our company 
and our stakeholders. We conducted an analysis of our 
most important issues following the Global Reporting 
Initiative’s materiality guidance as laid out in GRI Standard 
101: Foundation, 2016. We also followed GRI’s principles 
for stakeholder inclusiveness, understanding sustainability 
context and completeness.
102-47 List of material topics p. 91
102-48 Restatements of information Information about any restatements is provided in the 
footnotes to the relevant data. 
102-49 Changes in reporting None
102-50 Reporting period Data provided in the report cover the period from January 
1 to December 31, 2020. Some additional information on 
important sustainability-related activities that occurred in 
2021 before publication of this report is also included. 
102-51 Date of most recent report September 2020
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Rajesh Sharma, Corporate Secretary, APA Corporation, 
2000 Post Oak Blvd., Suite 100, Houston, TX 77056-4400
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI 
Standards: Core option.
102-55 GRI content index This index
102-56 External assurance p. 82
Some financial data included in our annual Form 10-K have 
been externally assured, as noted in the 10-K.GRI Content IndexAppendix109
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report   Disc. # Disclosure Title Location in Report/Response/Omission
GRI 201: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE (2016)
103-2 The management approach and its components 2020 Form 10-K , pp. 33-50   
All management approach disclosures — identified in this 
index with the Disclosure numbers 103-1, 103-2 and 
103-3 — are from GRI Standards 103: Management 
Approach (2016).
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach pp. 82-85                                                                    
2020 Form 10-K , pp. 33-50
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed pp. 4, 95
2020 Form 10-K , pp. F-6, F-54, F-55
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change pp. 15-16, 91, 99-105                                                              
2020 Form 10-K , pp. 21, 27
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 2020 Form 10-K , pp. F-7, F-10, F-42, F-43
GRI 203: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS (2016)
103-1 Material topic and boundaries pp. 7-9, 41, 63-67, 71, 90-91                       
Issue boundary - inside and outside the organization 
103-2 The management approach and its components pp. 7-12, 63-65, 69-71                                                                   
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach pp. 7-9, 41, 63-67, 71, 82                                                             
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported pp. 7-9, 41, 63-67, 71
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts pp. 7-9, 41, 63-67, 71
GRI 204: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES (2016)
103-1 Material topic and boundaries pp. 10, 60, 77, 90-91
Issue boundary - inside and outside the organization
103-2 The management approach and its components pp. 10-12, 71, 80, 82-85
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach pp. 82-83                                                                   
204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers pp. 71, 95
GRI 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION (2016)
103-2 The management approach and its components pp. 10-12,  82-85
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics  
FCPA and Anti-Corruption Compliance Guide
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach pp. 10-12,  82-85
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures p. 84
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 
FCPA and Anti-Corruption Compliance Guide 
GRI 302: ENERGY (2016)
103-1 Material topic and boundaries pp. 17-22, 90-91
Issue boundary - inside and outside the organization
103-2 The management approach and its components pp. 10-14, 17-22, 80, 82 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach pp. 10-14, 80, 82                                                                     
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization pp. 6, 13, 19, 94
GRI 303: WATER (2016)
103-1 Material topic and boundaries pp. 23-27, 90-91
Issue boundary - inside and outside the organization
103-2 The management approach and its components pp. 10-14, 26-27, 80, 82
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach pp. 10-14, 24-26
303-1 Water withdrawal by source pp. 13, 26-27, 94
303-3 Water recycled and reused pp. 13, 26-27, 94
GRI 304: BIODIVERSITY (2016)
103-2 The management approach and its components pp. 32-34, 90-91
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach pp. 10-14, 80, 82 
304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity pp. 32-34
304-3 Habitats protected or restored pp. 32-34GRI Content IndexAppendix110
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report   Disc. # Disclosure Title Location in Report/Response/Omission
GRI 305: EMISSIONS (2016)
103-1 Material topic and boundaries pp. 17-22, 90-91
Issue boundary - inside and outside the organization
103-2 The management approach and its components pp. 10-14, 17-22, 80, 82 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach pp. 10-14, 17-19
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) greenhouse gas emissions pp. 13, 20-21, 94
305-2 Indirect (Scope 2) greenhouse gas emissions pp. 13, 19-20, 94
305-4 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity pp. 13, 21, 94
305-5 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions pp. 6, 13-14, 20-21, 94
GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE (2016)
103-1 Material topic and boundaries pp. 30, 36-38, 90-91
Issue boundary - inside and outside the organization
103-2 The management approach and its components pp. 10-14, 28-29, 80, 82 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach pp. 10-14, 80, 82
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method pp. 10-14, 80, 82
306-3 Significant spills pp. 28-29, 94
GRI 307: ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE (2016)
103-1 Material topic and boundaries pp. 10-14, 17-38, 90-91                               
Issue boundary - inside the organization 
103-2 The management approach and its components pp. 10-14, 80, 82                                                                   
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach pp. 10, 14, 17, 38, 82                                                                    
307-1 Noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations 2020 Form 10-K , pp. F-36, F-37, F-38                               
We report all material legal matters and fines in our annual 
Form 10-K.                                                                     
GRI 308: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (2016)
103-2 The management approach and its components pp. 10-12, 60, 71, 80, 82, 89                             
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach pp. 10-12, 60, 71, 80, 82, 89                                                                   
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria p. 60
All field-based contractors are screened on 
environmental criteria                                                       
GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY (2016)
103-1 Material topic and boundaries pp. 10-14, 53-59, 90-91                               
Issue boundary - inside and outside the organization 
103-2 The management approach and its components pp. 10-12, 53-59, 71, 80, 82, 89                                                                      
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach pp. 53-59                                                                       
403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and 
absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalitiespp. 53-59
GRI 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION (2016)
103-2 The management approach and its components pp. 10-14, 50-51, 80, 82                                  
103-3 Evaluation of management approach pp. 10-14, 50-51, 80, 82                                                                        
404-1 Hours of training pp. 51, 58                                                                       
GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION (2016)
103-2 The management approach and its components pp. 10-14, 43-50, 80, 82                                
103-3 Evaluation of management approach pp. 43-50                                                        
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees pp. 46-47, 81, 95, 97
GRI 411: RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLES (2016)
103-2 The management approach and its components pp. 10-12, 78, 82-83           
Indigenous Peoples Principles
Human Rights Principles                                                            
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach pp. 10-12, 78, 82-83
GRI 412: HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT (2016)
103-2 The management approach and its components pp. 10-12, 77-78, 82-83  
Indigenous Peoples Principles 
Human Rights Principles                                                    
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach pp. 10-12, 77-78, 82-83                                                                     GRI Content IndexAppendix111
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability Report   Disc. # Disclosure Title Location in Report/Response/Omission
GRI 413: LOCAL COMMUNITIES (2016)
103-1 Material topic and boundaries pp. 63-78, 90-91                                
Issue boundary - inside and outside the organization 
103-2 The management approach and its components pp. 10-14, 63-78, 80, 82                                                                         
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach pp. 63-78                                                             
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments and 
development programspp. 63-78
413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on  
local communitiespp. 72-74 
GRI 414: SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT (2016)
103-2 The management approach and its components pp. 10-12, 60, 71, 80, 82, 89  
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach pp. 10-12, 60, 71, 80, 82, 89 
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria p. 60 
All field-based contractors are screened on health, safety 
and environmental criteria.
GRI 415: PUBLIC POLICY (2016)
103-1 Material topic and boundaries pp. 85-91 
Issue boundary - inside and outside the organization
103-2 The management approach and its components pp. 10-14, 80, 82, 85-85 
Policy on Political Contributions and Lobbying
103-3 Evaluation of management approach and its components pp. 85-91
415-1 Political contributions pp. 85-86 
2020 Political ContributionsGRI Content Index
IPIECA’S Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability 
Reporting , 3rd Edition (Revised 2016)
   Disc. # Disclosure Title Location in Report/Response/Omission
ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES
IPIECA E 1 Greenhouse gas emissions pp. 13-14, 17-22, 94
IPIECA E 5 Biodiversity and ecosystem services pp. 13-14, 32-34
IPIECA E 6 Fresh water pp. 13, 26-27, 94
IPIECA E 9 Spills to the enironment pp. 28-29, 94
HEALTH AND SAFETY ISSUES
IPIECA HS 1 Workforce participation pp. 13-14, 53-59, 94
IPIECA HS 3 Occupational injury and illness pp. 13-14, 53-59, 94
SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC ISSUES
IPIECA SE 1 Local community impacts and engagement pp. 63-78
IPIECA SE 2 Indigenous peoples p. 78                                                               
Indigenous Peoples Principles 
Human Rights Principles
IPIECA SE 4 Social investment pp. 63-65, 71, 95
IPIECA SE 5 Local content practices pp. 71, 95
IPIECA SE 6 Local hiring practices pp. 49-51, 95
IPIECA SE 8 Human rights due diligence pp. 77-78, 82-83                                                                           
Human Rights Principles
Monitoring of Human Rights Principles
IPIECA SE 11 Preventing corruption pp. 82-85 
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
IPIECA SE 14 Public policy and lobbying pp. 85-89 
Policy on Political Contributions and Lobbying
IPIECA SE 16 Workforce engagement pp. 50-52
IPIECA SE 17 Workforce training and development pp. 50-51
IPIECA SE 18 Nonretaliation and grievances pp. 72, 74, 83-84 
Code of Business Conduct and EthicsAppendix112
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportSustainability Accounting Standards Board’s Oil and Gas Exploration and 
Production Sustainability Accounting Standard
   Disc. # Disclosure Title Location in Report
ACTIVITY METRICS
EM-EP-000.A Wellhead production 2020 Form 10-K , pp. 3, 7-8
EM-EP-000.B Number of offshore sites 2020 Form 10-K , pp. 3, 7-8
EM-EP-000.C Number of terrestrial sites 2020 Form 10-K , pp. 3, 7-8
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
EM-EP-110a.1 Gross global Scope 1 emissions pp. 13, 20- 21, 94
EM-EP-110a.2 Gross global Scope 1 emissions by source pp. 13, 20- 21, 94
EM-EP-110a.3 Emissions reduction plans, targets and performance pp. 6, 13-14, 19-22, 94
WATER MANAGEMENT
EM-EP-140a.1 Freshwater withdrawal and consumption, including in regions of high baseline 
water stresspp. 13, 26-27, 94
EM-EP-140a.2 Volume of produced water and flowback generated, discharged, injected, recycled pp. 13, 26-27, 94
EM-EP-140a.3 Percentage of wells with disclosure of fracturing chemicals p. 30
BIODIVERSITY IMPACTS
EM-EP-160a.1 Environmental management practices for active sites pp. 13-14, 32-34
EM-EP-160a.2 Number and aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills pp. 28-29, 94
SECURITY, HUMAN RIGHTS AND RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLES
IEM-EP-210a.3 Engagement and due diligence practices on human and indigenous rights pp. 77-78, 82-83
COMMUNITY RELATIONS
EM-EP-210b.1 Process to manage risks and opportunities associated with community rights 
and interestspp. 63-78, 80, 82
WORKFORCE HEALTH AND SAFETY
EM-EP-320a.1 Safety performance and training pp. 53-59
EM-EP-320a.2 Management systems used to integrate a culture of safety pp. 10-14, 53-59
BUSINESS ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY
EM-EP-510a.2 Prevention of corruption and bribery throughout the value chain pp. 84-85
CRITICAL INCIDENT RISK MANAGEMENT
EM-EP-540a.1 Tier 1 loss of primary containment events p. 94
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
   Disclosure Title Location in Report
GOVERNANCE
Board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities pp. 10-12, 15-16, 99
Management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities pp. 10-12, 15-16, 99
STRATEGY
Climate-related risks identified pp. 100-101
Impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on strategy p. 101
Resilience of strategy under different climate-related scenarios pp. 15-16, 102
RISK MANAGEMENT
Organization’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks pp. 15-16, 99-100, 103-105
Organization’s processes for managing climate-related risks pp. 10-14, 80, 82, 99
2020 Form 10-K , pp. ii, 20-21, 27
Processes for identifying, assessing and managing climate-related risks in overall risk 
management processespp. 10-14, 80, 82, 99
METRICS AND TARGETS
Metrics used to assess climate-related risks and opportunities pp. 10-14, 17-22, 90-91, 94
Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions pp. 13, 20-21, 94
Targets used to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance pp. 10-14, 17-22, 90-91, 94, 105Appendix113
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportThe table below provides locations in this report that describe how APA Corporation's work is helping to drive progress toward   
all 17 U.N. Sustainable Development Goals. United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
   U.N. Sustainable Development Goal Location in Report
Goal 1: End poverty in all its forms everywhere pp. 6, 7-9, 12, 40-41, 49, 63, 64, 
66-67, 68-69, 70, 71, 72, 76
Goal 2: End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture pp. 7-9, 12, 32-34, 40-41, 63, 64, 
66-67, 70
Goal 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages pp. 6, 7-9, 12, 17-22, 23-27, 28-29, 
40-41, 50-51, 53-58, 63, 66-67, 
68-69, 71, 76, 77, 78
Goal 4:  Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for 
all opportunities for allpp. 6, 7-9, 40-41, 51, 63, 66-67,     
70, 76
Goal 5: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls pp. 6, 7-9, 40-41, 43-44, 44-45, 49, 
52, 63, 66-67, 70, 81, 97
Goal 6: Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all pp. 6, 7-9, 15-16, 23-30, 66-67, 
99-105
Goal 7: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all pp. 6, 7-9, 12, 15-16, 66-67, 99-105
Goal 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment 
and decent work for allpp. 49, 63, 66-67, 70, 71, 75, 76
Goal 9: Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and 
foster innovationpp. 5, 6, 7-9, 66-67, 70, 76
Goal 10: Reduce inequality within and among countries pp. 6, 7-9, 40-41, 49, 66-67, 70, 71, 
72-74Appendix114
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportUnited Nations Sustainable Development Goals (CONTINUED)
   U.N. Sustainable Development Goal Location in Report
Goal 11: Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable pp. 40-41, 66-67, 68-69, 75, 76,     
77, 78
Goal 12: Responsible consumption and production — ensure sustainable consumption and 
production patternspp. 6, 7-9, 15-16, 17-22, 23-27, 
28-29, 32-34, 35, 36-37, 66-67, 
99-105
Goal 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts pp. 15-16, 17-22, 23-27, 99-105
Goal 14: Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for 
sustainable developmentpp. 29, 32-34, 63, 64-65, 65, 66-67
Goal 15: Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage 
forests, combat desertification, halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity losspp. 23-27, 28-29, 32-34, 63, 64-65, 
66-67
Goal 16: Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice 
for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levelspp. 40-41, 44-45, 63-64, 64-65, 
66-67, 72-74, 75, 77, 78, 85-86
Goal 17: Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for
sustainable developmentpp. 22, 33, 66-67, 76Appendix115
APA Corporation  2021 Sustainability ReportFORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK
This report includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the 
Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as 
amended, including statements regarding our environmental, social and governance (ESG) strategy, 
management and performance and other business plans, initiatives and objectives. All statements 
other than statements of historical facts, including information about our ESG and sustainability 
goals, targets and commitments and planned social, safety and environmental policies, programs 
and initiatives, are forward-looking statements. These statements are generally accompanied by the 
use of forward-looking terminology such as “may,” “will,” “could,” “expect,” “intend,” “project,” 
“estimate,” “anticipate,” “plan,” “believe,” “continue,” “seek,” “guidance,” “might,” “outlook,” “possibly,” 
“potential,” “prospect,” “should,” “would,” or similar terminology, but the absence of these words does 
not mean that a statement is not forward looking. All forward-looking statements are based on 
management’s current assumptions and expectations, and although we believe that the expectations 
reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance that such 
expectations will prove to have been correct. Our actual future results, including the achievement of 
goals, targets or commitments, could differ materially from our expectations as the result of changes 
in circumstances, assumptions not being realized, or other risks, uncertainties or factors.  Important 
factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are included in the 
company’s annual and quarterly reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), 
as well as, with respect to our ESG strategy, management and performance, the assumptions, risks, 
uncertainties, and factors identified in this report and in our other ESG reporting. We urge you to 
consider all of the risks, uncertainties and factors identified above or discussed in such reports 
carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements in this report. We also advise you that the 
disclosure of forward-looking statements and other information included in this report does not 
indicate that the materiality of such information rises to the standard of “materiality” for purposes of 
federal securities law disclosure requirements and SEC filings. The forward-looking statements in 
our reporting are made as of the effective date identified on the applicable report, unless otherwise 
indicated, and we undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect 
subsequent events or circumstances.
APA Corporation
2000 Post Oak Blvd, Ste 100
Houston, TX 77056-4400
apacorp.com