Applied Materials Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017Applied Materials CSR Report 20172
Message from the CEO
VISION
Our Innovations make possible   
the technology shaping the future
MISSION
T o lead the world with  
materials engineering  solutions  
that enable customers to transform 
possibilities into reality
As Applied Materials turned 50 this past year, we also set new records for growth and performance. In fiscal 2017, we 
grew revenues by more than 30 percent and operating profit at more than twice that rate. 
Over the years, Applied has built the broadest and deepest portfolio of capabilities in our markets, and we continue to 
make significant investments in research and development to deliver incredible new innovations to our customers. Our 
vision is to make possible the technology shaping the future, while building a thriving workplace, making a difference in 
our communities and ensuring environmental sustainability.
In 2017, we manufactured and delivered a record number of systems, while creating more than 2,800 new jobs. Against 
this backdrop of record growth, we were able to keep our energy usage almost flat though proactive sustainability 
measures and held our global waste diversion rate steady by implementing new recycling programs. We also remain 
focused on increasing the diversity of our talent. Among our many contributions to our communities in 2017 was another 
record-breaking Food Drive that raised over $2 million for food banks across the United States. 
Creating the future that we envision requires an unwavering commitment to both innovation and collaboration. We invite 
you to learn more about our forward-looking corporate social responsibility initiatives presented in the Applied Materials 
CSR Report 2017. 
Gary Dickerson 
President and Chief Executive OfficerApplied Materials CSR Report 20173
2 Message from the CEO
4 About Applied Materials
6 Corporate Governance
7 Sustainability
8 Environment
13 Safety
14 Supply Chain16 People and Workplace
17 T raining and Development
19 Diversity and Inclusion
24 Ethics and Compliance
26 Human Rights27 Society
28 Community
32 Public Policy
34 Performance Indicators
37 Resources and References
ABOUT THIS REPORT
First issued in 2007, the Applied Materials Corporate Social Responsibility (previously, Citizenship) Report is the annual sustainability report 
for Applied Materials, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as “Applied Materials,” “Applied” or “the Company”). We have made 
significant changes to our reporting methods for 2017. This report is primarily based on Global Reporting Initiative™ (GRI) G4 Sustainability 
Reporting Guidelines at the Core level, and it is designed in all aspects to meet the needs of Applied’s stakeholders. 
Except where indicated, the report reflects Applied’s global operations for fiscal year 2017, beginning October 31, 2016 and ending October 
29, 2017. Applied’s global operational footprint fluctuates with business acquisitions and divestitures, as well as the occasional expansion, 
consolidation and relocation of its operations. Acquired businesses and operations are included from the date of acquisition. Additional details on 
the company’s operations and activities in specific areas are included in the Performance Indicators section at the end of this report.T able of ContentsApplied Materials CSR Report 20174
Leading the Way
Established in November 1967, Applied Materials has grown from a small start-up into one of the world’s most admired 
global companies. For over five decades, we have been putting the “silicon” in Silicon Valley through innovations that have 
fundamentally changed how the world works and the way people interact with each other through technology.
We are the leader in materials engineering solutions used to produce virtually every new chip and advanced display in the world. 
Our expertise in modifying materials at atomic levels and on an industrial scale enables the incredible breakthroughs that create 
future trends like artificial intelligence, big data, augmented and virtual reality, autonomous vehicles and the Internet of Things. 
Among our core values is a commitment to operate with mutual trust and respect, and to make a positive contribution to 
our industry and the community. From our commitment to the well-being of our employees and their communities, to our 
sustainable and ethical business practices, we are focused on making possible a better future. About Applied Materials
$14.5 billion  
revenue
AMAT stock listing  
on NASDAQ
>11,900  
patents
>18,400 employees   
90 locations in  
17 countries
Headquartered  
in California’s  
Silicon Valley
$1.8 billion R&D  
investment
$10.1 million   
in charitable 
contributionsFY2017 COMPANY OVERVIEW
For fiscal year ended October 29, 2017Applied Materials CSR Report 20175RECOGNITION AS A RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE CITIZEN
Applied Materials is consistently recognized for our achievements by a wide range of organizations and publications. 
Below is a selection of the corporate responsibility awards and positive recognition we received in 2017.
» Barron’s — The World’s Best CEOs
» Computerworld — 100 Best Places to Work in IT
» Corporate Knights — Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations 
» Corporate Responsibility Magazine — 100 Best Corporate Citizens list 
» Ethisphere® Institute — World’s Most Ethical Companies® 
» Fortune — World’s Most Admired Companies®
» Human Rights Campaign — Corporate Equality Index
» Newsweek — T op 500 Green Companies in America
Applied Materials CSR Report 20176
We are committed to effective corporate governance that promotes the long-term interests of our 
shareholders and strengthens Board of Directors and management accountability. Our Board is composed 
of highly-engaged directors who provide strong and independent oversight of Company strategy, risk 
management, and sustainability practices, among other matters.
RISK MANAGEMENT 
Our management is responsible for identifying, assessing, mitigating and managing risks related to our strategies and 
objectives. We have implemented an ERM (Enterprise Risk Management) program, overseen by the Board’s Audit Committee, 
that provides an enterprise-wide perspective on our risks. 
Risks identified under the ERM program are reported to the Board, which has oversight responsibility, with a focus on the most 
significant risks facing the Company, including strategic, operational, financial, legal and compliance risks. The Board in turn 
delegates oversight responsibility for certain risks to specific Board Committees.
The Audit Committee oversees the ERM program, as well as risks related to financial, regulatory, compliance, cybersecurity 
and EHS (Environmental, Health and Safety) matters. The Audit Committee regularly reviews risk-monitoring and mitigation 
approaches with management, the head of internal audit and independent accountants.
The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee oversees risks related to corporate governance matters, including 
director independence, Board composition and Board succession.
The Human Resources and Compensation Committee oversees risks associated with our compensation policies, plans and 
practices; organizational talent and culture; and management succession.Corporate Governance
A full description of Board 
and corporate governance 
practices is available in our 
2018 Proxy StatementApplied Materials CSR Report 20177
SUSTAINABILITY
We are committed to delivering profitable growth through environmentally 
and socially responsible business practices. We use our resources 
and technology leadership to enhance communities and preserve the 
environment, while diligently working to ensure our supply chain conforms 
to our high ethical and sustainability standards.
IN THIS SECTION
8 Environmental, Health and Safety
10 Energy and Water
11 Greenhouse Gas Emissions
12 Waste and Recycling
13 Safety 
14 Supply ChainApplied Materials CSR Report 20178
Environmental, Health and Safety
Our Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) organization focuses on maintaining a safe and healthy 
workplace, while demonstrating environmental leadership and meeting regulatory compliance standards. 
The Head of EHS reports to the Board on a quarterly basis and provides a more in-depth environmental 
and sustainability update to the Audit Committee annually.
The EHS organization follows five guiding principles for sustainability, demonstrated through the way we do business at Applied.
Maximizing Energy Efficiency
Using energy responsibly throughout our operations to reduce environmental impact, through conserving energy and choosing 
renewable energy sources
Designing for the Environment
Designing products to minimize natural resources and energy consumption, reducing waste and maximizing efficiency
Workforce and Public Outreach
Promoting environmental awareness and engagement among our workforce and contributing to public policy development 
Pollution Prevention
Reducing waste through reuse and recycling while minimizing our carbon footprint by limiting greenhouse gas emissions 
Conserving Natural Resources
Minimizing our resource consumption and using recycled and reclaimed materials and waterApplied Materials CSR Report 20179APPLIED MATERIALS EHS POLICY
In accordance with our EHS principles and policies, we are committed to conducting business operations in a way that 
preserves the environment and protects the health and safety of our workers, customers and neighboring communities.
We make every effort to comply with or exceed all regulatory requirements, to prevent pollution and to show continuous 
improvement in the EHS performance of our operations, processes and products. All executives, managers and employees are 
expected to support and take responsibility for the implementation of our EHS policies.
We also encourage our suppliers to improve their environmental, health and safety performance, just as we welcome 
suggestions that might help us analyze and improve our own EHS programs.
In 2017, we continued to make measurable progress toward our ongoing goal of minimizing the environmental impact of our 
operations.
• Resource conservation efforts achieved 3.8M gallons of reclaimed water at our Austin, T exas facility 
• Recycling and reclamation processes for non-hazardous waste maintained a 75% global diversion rate
• Onsite renewable energy production and green energy purchases supported 100% of our power needs at our two  
Santa Clara, California campuses 
UPDATED ISO CERTIFICATIONS
We continue to recertify our operations to the updated International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001:2015 
standard for environmental management systems. In 2017, our Heimstetten, Germany and Pyeongtaek, Gyeonggi-do, South 
Korea manufacturing sites joined our growing list of certified facilities. Our future certification roadmap includes registration of 
our Gloucester, Massachusetts site.APPLIED MATERIALS ISO 14001:2015  
REGISTERED MANUFACTURING SITES
» Austin, T exas
» Santa Clara, California (New Product Integration)
» Singapore
» Rehovot, Israel
» Kalispell, Montana
» T ainan, T aiwan
» Treviso, Italy
» Alzenau, Germany
» Heimstetten, Germany (2017)
» Pyeongtaek, Gyeonggi-do, South Korea (2017)
Applied Materials CSR Report 201710Energy
Committed to minimizing consumption of natural resources, we remain focused on maximizing energy performance across our 
facilities. In 2017, while achieving a record year marked by more than 30% revenue growth, we succeeded in keeping our overall 
energy consumption relatively flat, compared to 2016 levels, through our continued focus on efficiency, conservation and use of 
renewable energy sources.
As an integral part of our clean energy initiatives, we are minimizing our carbon footprint through onsite renewable energy 
production that supplements our green energy purchases from local utilities. Our solar panel arrays at our facilities in 
Sunnyvale, California; Singapore; Xi’an, China; and Austin, T exas generated a total of 3.5 GWh (Gigawatt hours). Green energy 
purchases met 100% of the power demand for our two Santa Clara campuses and powered approximately 18% of our Global 
facilities and operations.
Water
Water remains an essential natural resource for effectively operating our facilities. We are focused on responsibly managing 
our water usage by implementing water use minimization and recycling practices throughout our global operations, wherever 
feasible. In 2017, a year when business volumes were up more than 30% we were able to hold the overall increase in water 
consumption to only 12%. Through the implementation of smart irrigation controls and reduced watering days, Austin has 
reduced its annual irrigation needs by over 80% from its peak usage in 2012.
Responsible water use includes effective waste management. All of our facilities ensure that both water usage and discharges 
comply with local laws and regulations. In 2017, only one of our sites, out of more than 20 operational facilities worldwide, was 
found in violation of waste water discharge volume or effluent constituent requirements. This involved “out of specification 
waste water” and was quickly rectified—with procedures put in place to ensure no repeated occurrence. Our Industrial Waste 
Neutralization (IWN) Program in Austin, T exas, helped us successfully recycle 3.8 million gallons of water.
In 2017, our onsite 
green-power 
generation initiatives 
produced 3.5 Gigawatt 
hours—equivalent to 
the energy needed 
to power 2.4 million 
homes per year
Our Austin, T exas 
water reclamation 
project has recycled 
3.8 million gallons 
of water—equivalent 
to 5.8 Olympic-size 
swimming poolsApplied Materials CSR Report 201711Greenhouse Gas Emissions
In 2017, our overall greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions increased approximately 4.7%—well below the rate of increase in our 
business volumes, manufacturing and employee growth. Scope 1 and 2 emissions increased approximately 1.7% compared to 
2016 levels. Our Scope 3 emissions (indirect releases) increased compared to 2016 due to business-related air travel necessary 
to support rapid business growth in Asian markets.
Beyond our efforts to limit GHG emissions resulting from our operations, we offer programs and sponsor initiatives focused on 
reducing carbon emissions and air pollution in the broader community.
• Carpool, ride-matching and vanpool services for our California, T exas and Massachusetts employees
• Public and alternative transportation incentives for our California employees
• Electric vehicle (EV) charging stations at our Santa Clara, Sunnyvale, Austin and Gloucester campuses
• Preferred parking at our Santa Clara, Sunnyvale and Austin campuses for employees who carpool and/ or drive hybrid or 
electric vehicles 
We partner with Scoop—the largest carpooling community in the San Francisco Bay Area—to give our Silicon Valley employees 
the option of a subsidized roundtrip, door-to-door carpool. T o date, our Scoop carpoolers have reduced CO2 emissions by over 
225,000 pounds—equivalent in effect to planting more than 37,000 trees.
In addition, our Applied Anywhere program allows eligible employees to complete all job functions remotely. In 2017, 318 U.S. 
employees participated in this eco-friendly initiative. We also maintain 18 telepresence rooms, and virtual meetings are utilized 
across the Company to connect key personnel without creating additional Scope 3 GHG emissions.
T o date, our Scoop 
commuters have reduced 
CO2 emissions by over 
225,000 pounds, 
equivalent in effect 
to planting more than 
37,000 trees
Applied Materials CSR Report 201712Waste and Recycling
In 2017, a record business year for Applied, non-hazardous waste generated by our operations increased by approximately 
48%, while hazardous waste decreased by approximately 1%. The larger quantity of non-hazardous waste, as compared to 
2016, mainly resulted from an unprecedented increase in manufacturing volumes in several locations, particularly in the U.S. 
and Singapore. 
RAMPING UP RECYCLING EFFORTS
Our offices, campuses and manufacturing facilities around the world continuously update their recycling programs to decrease non-
hazardous waste generation and increase diversion rates. Current initiatives include recycling of solid materials, cafeteria items and 
building materials, while also moving to reusable and recyclable packaging. Recycling programs kept our 2017 waste diversion rate at 
75%, consistent with our 2016 rate—even as the overall volume of material offered to recycling vendors in 2017, otherwise destined 
for landfill, increased by approximately two tons. 
PRODUCT PACKAGING
We continue to explore methods for responsibly managing and minimizing the packaging used for materials and products 
shipped between locations and to customer sites. Our products require special protection because they are sensitive to 
environmental elements, improper handling and contact with chemicals. For this reason, we created a packaging technology 
team to design reusable packaging—including specially engineered boxes, crates, shipping containers and transport carriers—
for many products and materials. Packaging that has exhausted its usefulness is recycled through qualified local vendors, and 
packaging materials now account for roughly 70% of our total recyclables.Diversion 
rate 75%Hazardous Waste 
decreased 1% - 
despite our record 
year of business
Applied Materials CSR Report 201713Safety
We conduct business operations in a manner that protects the health and safety of our workforce, customers, suppliers and 
larger communities. At Applied, we go well beyond simple compliance with regulatory requirements, we invite input from 
interested parties and stakeholders, ensuring that any concerns are appropriately addressed. 
Worldwide in 2017, Applied was subject to no fines or notices of violations involving our safety programs, product information 
or health and safety performance.
ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
Our Environmental, Health and Safety Management System (EHSMS) is fully integrated with business processes across all 
Company locations. Our EHSMS also incorporates formal risk assessments and mitigation practices, and these are validated 
by regular internal and third-party audits of our certified manufacturing sites. Among other controls, EHSMS activities include 
safety self-inspections, walkthrough assessments and a formal chemical review and authorization process. 
In 2017, we completed certification of our Heimstetten, Germany facility’s safety management system to the Occupational 
Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001:2007 standard. Our future certification roadmap includes registration of 
three additional sites: Kalispell, Montana; Gloucester, Massachusetts; and Pyeongtaek, Gyeonggi-do, South Korea. Through our 
EHSMS, all of our sites remain aligned with the EHS practices of our formally certified locations.
PRODUCT SAFETY AND LABELING
Our formal Product Environmental, Health and Safety (Product EHS) policies and programs ensure that our products are 
designed, labeled and tested for safe use. All applicable products are subject to third-party safety assessments based on 
applicable industry and regulatory EHS standards. 
We label our products with necessary cautions based on their intended use. We also incorporate relevant international and 
regional product-labeling requirements, including CE Marking (“Conformité Européene,” or “European Conformity” marking) 
that indicates compliance with EHS requirements for products sold within the European Union.APPLIED MATERIALS OHSAS 18001 
MANUFACTURING SITES
» Austin, T exas
» Santa Clara, California (New Product Integration)
» Singapore
» Rehovot, Israel
» T ainan, T aiwan
» Alzenau, Germany
» Heimstetten, Germany (2017)
Applied Materials CSR Report 201714
Supply Chain
We maintain an innovative, world-class supply chain by building lasting partnerships, enabling transparency 
and collaborating on solutions that optimize product cost, quality, delivery and reliability. We are committed 
to sustainable business practices throughout our global supply chain and to the responsible sourcing of 
materials used to make our products. 
Our Global Supply Chain Organization (GSO) manages supplier relationships, develops supply chain capability and is primarily 
responsible for ensuring compliance with applicable laws, industry standards—such as the RBA (Responsible Business 
Alliance) Code of Conduct, SEMI guidelines, and our Standards of Business Conduct (SBC), a global code of conduct that 
reflects our organizational values and our focus on ethical practices.
ENSURING ETHICAL CONDUCT AND LEGAL COMPLIANCE
In 2005, we adopted the RBA (formerly EICC—Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition) Code of Conduct. This code 
addresses issues related to labor, health and safety, environmental responsibility, management systems and ethics in the supply 
chain. We are taking various steps to optimize our supply chain management. The top 80% of our suppliers must complete 
yearly self-assessments to measure their compliance with the RBA Code of Conduct, our SBC and related requirements. We 
similarly require that our suppliers observe applicable laws and regulations wherever they operate. 
PROHIBITING FORCED AND BONDED LABOR 
We are unequivocally opposed to slavery and human trafficking. Applied Materials prohibits the use of child labor, and the use 
of forced, bonded, or indentured labor practices in our operations. This prohibition is reflected in both the RBA Code of Conduct 
and our SBC, and also is reiterated in our Human Resources Policy.FY2017 Supplier Spend by Region
Asia 50%
U.S. 45%Europe 5%
More about our Standards of Business Conduct is available in 
the Ethics and Compliance section of this report.iApplied Materials CSR Report 201715SUPPLIER DIVERSITY
We value global diversity in our supply chain and are committed to selecting diverse suppliers whose products and services 
meet our supplier selection criteria and enable us to meet customer requirements. In 2017, we established a supplier diversity 
program to enhance the role diversity plays in our supplier selection process. 
CONFLICT MINERALS 
We are committed to the responsible sourcing of materials used in our products. The equipment and many of the spare parts 
we produce include components that contain tin, tantalum, tungsten or gold—commonly labeled today as “conflict minerals.” 
We do not directly purchase these minerals, nor do we have any direct relationship with mines or smelters that process these 
minerals. 
Our products, due to their size and complexity, generally consist of thousands of parts sourced from a multitude of suppliers. 
We rely on our direct suppliers to provide information on the origin of any conflict minerals contained in parts sold to us, 
including conflict minerals they obtain from lower-tier suppliers and smelters.
We surveyed the direct suppliers responsible for approximately 80% of our total supply expenditures in fiscal 2017. Of these, 
39% reported that the parts they provided did not contain conflict minerals. Approximately 20% of those reporting parts 
containing conflict minerals declared that at least some minerals originated from recycled or scrap sources. 
Our approach to verifying the source and chain of custody of conflict minerals in our supply chain is designed to conform in all 
material respects with OECD Guidance. Along with other RBA members, we have been a partner in the Responsible Minerals 
Initiative (RMI)—an industrywide project to understand and determine how best to mitigate the complex issue of conflict 
minerals—since its inception, when it was known as the Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative. 
We support refinement and expansion of RMI’s list of Conformant Smelters through measures including RMI’s Responsible 
Minerals Assurance Process, which uses independent third-party audits to identify smelters with systems in place to ensure 
they procure responsibly sourced minerals. More information on our due diligence efforts is available through our website and in 
our most recent Conflict Minerals Report, which was filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on May 29, 2018. 
ABOUT CONFLICT MINERALS
The most commonly mined conflict minerals include tin, 
tantalum, tungsten and gold. They may originate in the 
Democratic Republic of Congo or an adjacent country, where 
various armies and rebel groups have profited from mining while 
contributing to violence and exploitation across the regions.
These minerals are used in a wide variety of electronics 
products such as smartphones and computers.
79
Au
Gold50
W
T ungsten73
Ta
T antalum74
Sn
TinApplied Materials CSR Report 201716
PEOPLE AND WORKPLACE
Our commitment to innovation begins with our commitment to our people. 
We succeed by creating an environment in which our employees can 
do their best work. Investing in our talent benefits employees even as it 
benefits both Applied and our other stakeholders. T o attract, develop and 
retain a world-class global workforce, we constantly update our programs 
that promote training and education, diversity and inclusion, ethics and our 
universal respect for human rights.
IN THIS SECTION
17 Training and Development
19 Diversity and Inclusion
24 Ethics and Compliance
26 Human RightsApplied Materials CSR Report 201717
T raining and Development
We foster personal and professional development for our workforce through a vast array of onsite 
resources and online platforms that promote career development, improve overall motivation and help 
employees manage every stage of their careers. 
Our worldwide training organization, Applied Global University (AGU), offers a broad range of educational opportunities to 
all personnel. AGU courses provide over 800 business, technical and employee development opportunities in a variety of 
languages and formats. Competency certifications and technical training are available in areas such as engineering, career 
planning, safety, product development and pandemic preparedness. 
While some AGU courses are taken voluntarily for personal or career development, compliance-based trainings are mandatory 
for our workforce based on when they start their employment or assignments. Required trainings include health and safety, our 
Standards of Business Conduct, ethics and IP (intellectual property) protection. These must be completed within certain time 
frames and renewed every two to three years. Educational materials are reviewed and updated annually to ensure accuracy, 
business relevance and legal compliance.
Beyond AGU, we support employees continuing their formal education by providing a tuition-assistance program and offering 
specialized courses through partnerships with a variety of universities and professional organizations.IN 2017, OUR EMPLOYEES COMPLETED: 
» T otal training - 1,271,932 hours 
» Pandemic preparedness training - 5,700 hours 
» Average training hours per person - 53 hours
Established in 2015, the appliedx digital learning lab advances 
professional education opportunities across Applied. This multimedia 
education platform supports technology innovation, fosters 
communities of practice and leverages digital technology to share 
knowledge with everyone.The appliedx platform offers an array of free online courses taught by 
our subject matter experts, with each course broken into bite-sized 
modules that allow learners to easily progress at their own pace. In 
2017, appliedx offered 160 courses, and over 17,000 members of our 
global workforce participated in this on-demand platform for enhancing 
critical skills, knowledge, and collaboration. APPLIEDX: ADVANCING PROFESSIONAL EXCELLENCEApplied Materials CSR Report 201718
ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY PROGRAMS 
Our workforce has access to diverse technical programs, forums, conferences and lecture series involving products, processes 
and technologies.
Engineering and T echnology (ET) Conference
At our 31st ET Conference, held in December 2016, engineers from around the world gathered in Las Vegas, Nevada to participate 
in technical presentations and workshops and establish new lines of communication to exchange ideas across the Company.
The CTO Guest Lecture Series
Our Office of the CTO (Chief T echnology Officer) invites experts from across the industry, academia and government R&D 
institutions to host guest lectures on materials science and engineering topics, focusing on emerging technologies. Each lecture 
is available to attend in person at our Santa Clara campus or to view afterward online.
STRENGTHENING APPLIED’S UNIVERSITY RELATIONS 
Applied and many of the world’s top engineering universities have enjoyed mutually beneficial relationships for decades. We 
provide funding to university faculty and labs, engage in collaborative research and constantly recruit top talent from academia 
to strengthen our workforce. We recognize that university engagements are critical for maximizing competitiveness in today’s 
global knowledge economy. In 2017, we worked to strengthen relationships with academia, with ten universities internationally 
renowned for their technology programs, furthering our collaborations and keeping our workforce connected to cutting-edge 
research as it happens.
CALTECH SYSTEMS ENGINEERING COURSE PARTNERSHIP
Through an educational partnership formed in 2015 with the 
California Institute of T echnology (Caltech), we give our engineers the 
opportunity to earn a Caltech Systems Engineering (SE) certificate 
through our fully on-demand digital learning center, appliedx.The popular 26-week course is a customized program designed around 
the evolving needs of our business, with students learning about 
current technologies and industry nomenclature. In 2017, 38 employees 
formed our second graduating class to become equipped with the latest 
systems-engineering skills and knowledge.
Applied Materials CSR Report 201719
Diversity and Inclusion
Diversity and inclusion are foundational to Applied Materials’ strategy to attract, develop and retain world-
class employees. We are committed to diversity because we believe that diverse perspectives, experiences 
and backgrounds enhance teamwork and innovation. Our footprint spans 19 countries and reflects various 
cultures, backgrounds, ages, genders and ethnicities that come together to form a rich tapestry of talent. 
In addition to building diversity, we actively promote a broad and inclusive culture of understanding and empowerment to ensure 
that we have an engaged workforce. Innovation thrives when members of our workforce feel valued and respected and know that 
they are included in a company culture in which they are contributing to our shared success. 
Recognizing the need to accelerate our diversity and inclusion efforts globally, at every level of our organization, we have 
made the Head of Diversity and Inclusion a senior leadership role, reporting directly to our Chief Human Resources Officer, to 
implement the strategic framework for our initiatives in partnership with others. 
COMMITTED TO DIVERSITY
T o progress toward the increasingly diverse workforce we envision, we continue to implement supportive programs and 
forward-looking initiatives. Our commitment to broadening the diversity of our workplace takes many forms—including 
hiring initiatives, a Global Diversity and Inclusion T eam, Employee Resource Groups, community engagement and targeted 
professional development opportunities designed to support and increase the diversity of our workforce and leadership. The Human Rights Campaign 
Foundation includes Applied among its 
Corporate Equality Index with a high 
score for our corporate policies and 
practices pertinent to LGBTQ personnel.
Applied Materials CSR Report 201720
HIRING THE FUTURE
Hiring Initiatives
We are committed to increasing the diversity of our candidate pools, both in the U.S. and around the globe, through inclusive 
and forward-looking hiring initiatives. We dedicate time and resources to finding and bringing on board candidates from a wide 
range of backgrounds. Our talent acquisition strategies include partnering with a recruiter focused on hiring women, veterans, 
minorities and individuals with disabilities; use of recruiting software specifically designed to identify such candidates; and 
onsite networking and informational events to attract college students pursuing STEM (Science, T echnology, Engineering and 
Math) careers.
Women in Leadership
Our Women in Engineering T alent Development Program offers resources to support the career growth of female engineers—
including opportunities to participate in conferences, professional skill development workshops, roundtables focused on career 
development and mentoring programs. We also sponsor employee attendance at conferences focused on women’s leadership 
development, including the IEEE Women in Engineering International Leadership Conference, Watermark Conference for 
Women, T exas Conference for Women, and Massachusetts Conference for Women.
Over the years, our female employees have been regularly recognized for their leadership in the community and their industry 
contributions. Since 1985, at least one Applied employee or executive each year has been honored with the prestigious Silicon 
Valley YWCA TWIN (T ribute to Women in Industry) Award. This award honors an exclusive group of women who have 
demonstrated innovation, creativity and excellence in the workplace and beyond. 
Community Engagement
We have a long history of supporting nonprofit organizations and educational institutions focused on providing women and 
young people of diverse backgrounds with educational opportunities. Notable organizations and programs we support include 
Mexican American Engineers and Scientists, Society of Women Engineers, Y outh Science Institute and City Y ear. We have also 
supported the Breakthrough Collaborative partnership in Santa Clara and Austin for the past 16 years, helping local students 
become the first in their families to attend college.
Since 1985, honored annually 
with TWIN AwardApplied Materials CSR Report 201721
Internship and New College Graduate Programs
Our North America internship program brought nearly 100 students to our Santa Clara campus during summer 2017 to work 
in both engineering and corporate roles. Our interns not only learn about various career paths available, but also gain exposure 
to our diverse and inclusive workplace. Similar internship programs in our other locations around the world—including our 
Summer Student Program in T aiwan—help us to find talented future employees from diverse backgrounds. 
New College Graduate (NCG) programs are essential to attracting and retaining new talent. Our U.S. outreach efforts include 
sponsoring, hosting and participating in a wide range of activities, such as Math Engineering and Science Achievement (MESA) 
Student Leadership Conference, National Society of Black Engineers Regional Conference, the Society of Women Engineers 
Evening with Industry event and the University of California, Berkeley Engineering Department Networking and Professional 
Etiquette event.
Outside of the U.S., our recruiting strategy is also delivering results. The team in China conducted interviews at top universities, 
recruiting over 80 graduates to join the New Star Program—our first large-scale NCG campaign in the country since 2000. 
Applied has a long history of investment and talent development in China, and the reinvigorated program is already enhancing 
our operations in a vitally important region.
A CULTURE OF INCLUSION 
In addition to promoting a diverse workforce, we want employees to know that they are respected, valued 
and heard. Our Diversity and Inclusion strategy focuses on promoting a supportive, welcoming culture of 
open dialogue and collaboration.
Beyond adopting inclusive hiring practices, we review our benefits programs to ensure we are creating a 
welcoming workplace—which includes extending benefits to same-sex domestic partners. In 2017, we 
implemented a paid parental and family leave program, including a paternity leave benefit that recognizes 
and supports each employee’s need and desire to play an active role within the family. 
Applied Materials CSR Report 201722EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS
Our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) create an open forum for exchanging ideas and strengthening bonds across and within 
our diverse communities at Applied. ERGs help foster diversity and inclusion through information-sharing and provide support, 
educational opportunities and career development resources. These groups promote cultural awareness and volunteerism while 
helping us stay connected to, recruit from and nurture talent within local communities worldwide. Each ERG has an executive 
sponsor acting as a mentor and ensuring open communication between these important groups and senior management.
Our first ERG—Leadership Encouraging Achievement through Diversity (LEAD), a Black Employee Network (BEN)—was established 
in 2001 at our Austin, T exas campus. T oday, we fund eight ERGs with 16 divisions spread across our worldwide locations. 
Applied Pride
In March 2017 we re-launched our decade-old LGBT and Friends employee resources group as Applied Pride. Applied Pride 
promotes an environment in which employees of all sexual orientations, gender identities, and/ or expressions are fully engaged 
and maximizing their potential. The group also seeks to create a stronger support network within our Company for individuals 
identifying as LGBTQ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer), in part, by creating a welcoming environment and offering 
outreach activities for those already friendly to, or wishing to learn more about, the larger LGBTQ community.
» Applied Pride (LGBTQ and Friends)
» Asians in Motion (AIM)
» Hispanics in Partnership (HiP)
» Leadership Encouraging Achievement through Diversity/
Black Employee Network (LEAD/BEN)» Veterans Employee T eam (VET)
» Women’s Professional Development Network (WPDN)
» Y oung Professionals Network (YPN)
» GreenT eam Austin
Applied Materials CSR Report 201723
In 2017, we greatly benefited from the contributions of 
roughly 700 U.S. veterans, and we remain committed to 
recruiting exemplary candidates from the large pool of 
talented individuals who have served in the military.  
We take pride in being recognized in the U.S. as a Military-Friendly Employer, a Military Times T op 100 Best for Vets 
Employer and a U.S. Veterans Magazine T op Veteran-
Friendly Employer. We are also mindful of, and grateful for, 
those among us who continue to serve—and who often do 
extraordinary things to help others.VETERANS
DIVERSITY EVENTS 
Since 2010, we have held events that promote a culture of diversity and inclusion. In recent years, these have become large-scale 
diversity events that involve our Board of Directors, CEO and executive staff. These activities emphasize several key themes:
• Being bold and speaking up
• Appreciating differences to stimulate learning and develop the best solutions
• Creating an inclusive and collaborative environment that is empowering and engaging 
In 2017, CEO Gary Dickerson kicked off our Austin location’s seventh annual Diversity Day celebration. The event, held over 
two days in May, included key executives, guest speakers and interactive workshops. Speakers and workshops alike encouraged 
employees to reflect on our global diversity as a major strength that enables both our shared success and social progress. In 
October, Santa Clara employees engaged in similar activities to mark the sixth annual Silicon Valley Diversity and Inclusion Day.
SUPPLY CHAIN DIVERSITY
Our emphasis on global diversity also extends to our supply chain. We are committed to selecting diverse suppliers who 
provide products and services that meet our supplier-selection criteria and help us fulfill customer requirements. More 
information is available in the Supply Chain section of this report. 
Applied Materials CSR Report 201724
Ethics and Compliance
We are committed to upholding the highest ethical standards and ensuring compliance in the workplace 
and our business activities. Our core values include responsibility and integrity and we understand that 
these values are foundational to our success. They are vital to creating a culture of mutual trust and 
respect in our interactions with stakeholders, including workforce, customers, suppliers and the public.
STANDARDS OF BUSINESS CONDUCT
T o promote a strong and consistent culture of ethics, we have uniform Standards of Business Conduct (SBC) that apply to our 
global workforce around the world. These standards guide personnel in making the best possible decisions. The SBC is available 
to our workforce in 11 languages and to the public online. 
Upon joining Applied, all personnel must review and certify adherence to our SBC and must refresh their knowledge of it every 
two years by completing an online training course. They are also required to verify annually that they have read, understand and 
agree to comply with the SBC by completing a recertification process. In 2017, we achieved a 97% SBC-recertification rate.
TRAINING
Each member of our workforce undergoes comprehensive web-based and/ or classroom training in our Anticorruption, Conflict 
of Interest, Global Gift, Expense Reporting, Global T ravel and Insider T rading policies. Personnel must refresh their knowledge of 
these policies at regular intervals. 
Through training on privacy issues and IP (intellectual property) protection, everyone working at Applied learns the importance 
of keeping customers’ and suppliers’ data and information secure. We provide an ethics training to suppliers to ensure that they 
understand our requirements and how we operate.In 2017, for the sixth year running,  
we were recognized by the Ethisphere 
Institute as one of the World’s Most 
Ethical Companies®
™Applied Materials CSR Report 201725OUTREACH
Each year, we hold an Ethics Week campaign to raise awareness about our long-standing commitment to operating with the 
highest ethical standards. Throughout the weeklong event, key executives reinforce the importance of ethics, integrity and legal 
compliance, and each employee is reminded of specific policies and support available. 
The Ethics and Compliance team also holds informal events, dubbed Ethics roadshows, at all major global locations on a two-
year rotation. T o further gauge awareness and obtain feedback from our workforce, we conduct an Ethics Survey every two 
years. The next survey will be held in 2018. 
BUSINESS ETHICS HELPLINES
We maintain a toll-free Ethics Helpline and an online help form that are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, globally. 
These resources are confidentially administered by Navex Global. Each member of our workforce can also email the Applied 
Ombudsman to raise an issue or ask a question.
Every issue is investigated in accordance with our policies and standards, and with any applicable laws. Final resolution can take 
a variety of forms, including disciplinary action for employees, specialized training, changes or improvements to our policies, 
termination or suspension of business relationships or other corrective actions.
CONSISTENT REPORTING AND A RECORD OF COMPLIANCE
Our senior management and Audit Committee of the Board receive a quarterly report highlighting the status of the Global 
Ethics and Compliance program. 
In 2017, no material fines or other sanctions were imposed on Applied for noncompliance with laws and regulations. No legal 
actions were taken against Applied for anti-competitive behavior, antitrust or monopoly practices. In addition, no significant 
fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services were imposed. 
TOOLS AND RESOURCES
Our Ethics intranet site offers various tools and resources  
to help our workforce make responsible decisions
» Message from CEO
» Standards of Business Conduct
» Anticorruption, Conflict of interest, Gift and Insider 
trading policies
» Ethics Helpline and online tools
» Ethics videos
» Third-party due diligence and approval process Launch of
Insider Trading Policy and TrainingSpeak Up
Campaign
Game ShowETHICS WEEK  • OCTOBER 31 - NOVEMBER 4, 2016
ETHICS, EVERYONE, EVERY DAY • V isit the Ethics w ebsite (http:/ /ethics ) for mor e information
Daily Messag es
From ExecutivesEHICS TCelebratingApplied Materials CSR Report 201726
Human Rights
We are deeply committed to ensuring human rights are protected wherever we do business, consistently 
striving to operate in an ethical and socially responsible manner—both across our workforce and 
throughout our supply chain. 
NO EXPLOITATIVE OR INHUMANE LABOR PRACTICES
We prohibit the use of child labor and forced, bonded or indentured labor practices in our operations. Additionally, we forbid 
harsh or inhumane treatment, including corporal punishment or the threat of corporal punishment. This policy is included in our 
Human Resources Policy Manual as well as the Company’s Standards of Business Conduct, and all personnel involved in hiring, 
supporting, supervising or directing members of our workforce are required to apply it consistently throughout the Company’s 
global operations. 
SUPPLY CHAIN RESPONSIBILITY 
We require all suppliers to comply with our policies regarding human rights, including prohibitions on exploitative or 
inhumane labor practices in our SBC and the RBA Code of Conduct. For detailed information about Applied’s commitment to 
ensuring human rights are respected and maintained throughout the our supply chain, please see the Supply Chain section 
of this report.
Applied Materials CSR Report 201727
SOCIETY
As a leading technology company, we understand that Applied Materials 
must also be a leader in society. We strive to create a positive impact 
through philanthropic investments, community programs and public policy 
engagement. 
IN THIS SECTION
28 Community
32 Public PolicyApplied Materials CSR Report 201728
As a responsible corporate citizen, we are committed to making a positive contribution to the community. 
Through corporate initiatives and the Applied Materials Foundation (the “Foundation”), we strategically 
deploy charitable investments and human resources around the world, where our employees work and 
live, supporting organizations that offer services without discriminating against any group or individual.
COMMUNITY GIVING 
While our charitable investments are tailored to local needs, Applied and the Foundation provide funding in four main areas: 
Education, Civic Engagement, Arts and Culture and the Environment. We also contribute to relief and recovery efforts when 
natural disasters affect our communities around the world.
2017 Community Giving Highlights
In fiscal year 2017, through direct corporate contributions and the Foundation, we donated $10.1 million to 290 organizations 
in 10 countries: 
• $6.7 million in strategic grants, dedicated to our four main focus areas
• $2.9 million in volunteer time grants and matching gifts for employee donations
• $525,000 in disaster response, assisting with relief and recovery operations in the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey  
in T exas and the Kumamoto earthquake in Japan Community
FY2017 Community Giving: $10.1 Million
Education 32%
Matching Gifts 29%Civic Engagement 16%Arts & Culture 13%Environment 5%Disaster Relief 5%Applied Materials CSR Report 201729APPLIED MATERIALS FOUNDATION 
A long history of giving is at the heart of our corporate culture. In 1994, the Applied Materials Foundation was established to 
ensure that we maintain our commitment to the community during both economically prosperous and fiscally challenging 
times. Funding guidelines for the Foundation, including the grant application and details on review timing, are available online. 
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
Our employees increase Applied’s positive impact in the local community with personal donations and volunteer activities, 
often through company-initiated events that connect them with local nonprofit organizations. 
We invite our employees around the world to maximize their personal contributions to charity by taking part in our Matching 
Gift and Volunteer Time Grant programs. The Foundation matches employee contributions to eligible charities and educational 
programs dollar-for-dollar, up to a $3,000 annual limit per employee—which we increased in 2017 from a previous cap of 
$2,000. The Foundation also donates to an employee’s charity of choice based on time spent volunteering with approved 
nonprofit organizations. 
In 2017, matching gifts and volunteer time grants from the Foundation totaled $2.9 million—helping our employees’ generosity 
make an even larger impact. 
As part of our Applied 50th Anniversary festivities, we 
celebrated our history of philanthropy by inviting each 
employee, worldwide, to direct $50 from the Company to one 
of several charities. Within five days of the campaign’s launch, 
corporate and Foundation contributions on our employees’ behalf totaled $332,900.* While some recipients were well 
known nongovernmental organizations like Save the Children 
and Habitat for Humanity, others were agencies targeting 
specific outcomes in defined geographies—like the Society of 
Wilderness in T aiwan and Akshaya Patra in India. 
*Due to the campaign’s time frame, this figure is not included in total giving for FY2017$50 FOR 50TH ANNIVERSARY DONATION PROGRAM  
Applied Materials CSR Report 201730
MAKING A DIFFERENCE
Education
We invest in efforts to reduce the academic achievement gap and increase access to quality education throughout the world. 
T o learn more about our efforts in North America, our latest Education Initiative report is available online. 
Supporting T oday’s Students and T omorrow’s Educators
T eacher professional development is a key component to our Education Initiative. By supporting organizations like T each for 
America, we work to ensure all students, regardless of background or family income level, receive a high-quality education. 
We are helping T each for America make a difference in various regions of the United States, while also supporting T each for 
T aiwan’s efforts to create a positive impact in classrooms from Yilan in T aiwan’s north to Pingtung in the south. 
Civic Engagement
Committed to improving the lives of our neighbors, we invest in programs that address basic human needs—including access to 
nutritious food and clean water, affordable housing and short-term emergency assistance. 
North America Food Drive: $2.06 Million Raised to Alleviate Hunger
In 2017, our North America employees raised funds and gave generously during our annual Food Drive—resulting in $2.06 
million raised for 34 food banks across the U.S. Our employees learned about hunger in their communities, donated online and 
came together to participate in various fundraising events. Employee contributions totaled more than $1 million, which was 
matched dollar for dollar by the Foundation. 
Applied Materials Silicon Valley T urkey T rot: Largest Thanksgiving Day Race in the U.S.
T o help provide nutritious meals to families in need, on Thanksgiving Day 2016, nearly 26,000 community members, including 
many Applied employees, participated in the 12th annual Applied Materials Silicon Valley T urkey T rot, raising $912,000 for local 
charities. The T urkey T rot, which has raised more than $6.9 million since 2004, has become a nationally recognized event—
Running USA ranks it the largest Thanksgiving Day race in the U.S.—and a valued local tradition that helps us launch the holiday 
season in a festive, philanthropic spirit. 
Applied Materials CSR Report 201731Arts and Culture
We fund arts and culture organizations and events that bring people of diverse backgrounds together in shared experiences 
that encourage participation, learning and community building.
Mixing Art and Science Generates STEAM
In addition to funding traditional arts programs, we support programs that include an educational component. In 2017, we 
sponsored The Art and Science of Artwork Conservation Program in Singapore. Developed by the National Gallery Singapore, 
this program uses artwork conservation processes to demonstrate to 1,800 students each year that art and science are two 
intertwined disciplines—each involving skills, like creativity and critical thinking, necessary for future success. 
Environment
Applied invests in environmental programs that help all of us understand our roles as stewards of the Earth.
EarthWorks 2017
As a complement to our philanthropic funding for environmental organizations, each spring, we encourage employees to learn 
more about environmental sustainability and take action in their communities through the EarthWorks campaign. 
From planting trees in California, Singapore and T aiwan, to harvesting vegetables for Passover in Israel, to building “green” 
houses and recycling e-waste in T exas, to cleaning up Mount Fuji in Japan and the Qinling Mountains in China, employees spent 
time during Earthworks 2017 celebrating the environment and demonstrating our core value of responsibility and integrity.
 
Applied Materials CSR Report 201732
Public Policy
Applied Materials interacts with government officials, elected representatives and candidates to advocate 
for the Company, our stakeholders, and the business and trade associations to which we belong. These 
efforts, led by our Government Affairs group, aim to help shape public policy on issues that affect our 
business and to increase opportunities across the entire industry. 
OUR PUBLIC POLICY PRIORITIES
Regulatory Issues: We, along with our customers, operate in business segments subject to a vast, complex web of regulations 
governing environment, safety, health and other workplace concerns. We work to ensure that these regulations are crafted and 
implemented as effectively as possible.
T echnology Funding: As the complexity and cost of technology development grows, we seek to leverage external resources 
to extend our capabilities. This includes working with public research institutions and partnering with government-funded 
research programs. We advocate for government funding and other incentives to expand industry R&D activities. 
Trade Facilitation: With approximately 90% of our revenues generated outside the United States, we depend on international 
trade. Our ability to sell and service our products is affected tremendously by laws and regulations governing trade. We 
advocate for increasing the ease of doing business across borders by minimizing trade barriers.
T ax Policy: We engaged with various participants in the political process throughout 2017. We advocated for the interests of 
the Company and our stakeholders by sharing our unique industry perspective on corporate tax, international competition, and 
research and development (R&D) issues. 
Our lobbying activities are disclosed in periodic reports filed with the U.S. Senate, U.S. House of Representatives or the appropriate 
state agency. Our federal lobbying is also reported publicly through the Lobbying Disclosure Act Database.BUSINESS AND TRADE ASSOCIATIONS
We belong to various business and trade associations* 
representing a range of issues that concern us and engaging 
in activities that we believe benefit our business. In the U.S., 
these include groups, other than charitable and social welfare 
organizations, falling under sections 501(c)(4) and 501(c)(6) 
of the U.S. tax code that may engage in limited political activity.
Our membership in a group does not imply that we endorse 
the entirety of that group’s policy positions. Further information 
on our participation in business and trade organizations is 
available through our website.
*In 2017, we paid approximately $547,000 in trade association membership dues. Of 
this amount, 8.4% was specified by the associations as nondeductible lobbying activity 
expenditures. Our membership dues total does not include other costs, such as specific 
conference or event sponsorships or programming activities.Applied Materials CSR Report 201733POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS 
Both our corporate and AMPAC contributions are reviewed by outside legal counsel for compliance with applicable campaign-finance 
and related laws. They are subject to approval by our Vice President of Communications and Public Affairs and are reported directly 
to our General Counsel and Chairman of AMPAC to ensure consistency with AMPAC’s contribution policies and criteria.
Our State Contributions Committee (consisting of the same individuals who serve on the AMPAC Board) oversees corporate 
political spending at the state and local levels. We occasionally use corporate funds to make financial and in-kind political 
contributions within the U.S., as permitted by applicable laws, such as contributions to candidates for statewide offices and 
state legislatures, as well as to local or regional ballot measures.
During 2017, political contributions made by AMPAC and the State Contributions Committee totaled $85,500, and we also 
made one contribution of $5,000 to a regional ballot measure. However, no contributions were made in support of entities 
organized under section 527 of the U.S. tax code, including governors’ associations. 
OVERSIGHT, REVIEW AND ETHICS
Our Government Affairs group proposes AMPAC or corporate political contributions, and all proposals are reviewed by the 
AMPAC Board or State Contributions Committee, respectively. Factors considered typically include a candidate’s position on 
issues of strategic importance to the Company, leadership on key committees and whether we have a significant presence in 
the candidate’s state or district. No contribution may be made in return for, or in anticipation of, an official act. All contributions 
are made based only on corporate objectives, without regard for the private political preferences of committee members. 
Neither the Company nor AMPAC makes contributions to so-called “Super-PACs,” nor do we make political contributions 
outside the U.S. As part of its financial oversight, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors regularly reviews all public policy 
activities to ensure alignment with the Company policies. 
In addition to complying with regular governance policies and company controls, all persons acting on Applied’s behalf must 
also comply with our Standards of Business Conduct which prohibit corrupt practices, including any promise or payment of 
bribes or kickbacks to government officials. We also conduct regular training, compliance-system reviews, and internal audits to 
ensure all corporate contributions are made in accordance with the law and with our Company policies.
APPLIED MATERIALS POLITICAL ACTION 
COMMITTEE (AMPAC)
In 2004, we established the Applied Materials, Inc. Political 
Action Committee (AMPAC) to participate more fully in the 
political process. In full compliance with all U.S. campaign 
finance laws and regulations, campaign contributions are 
disbursed to candidates for state or federal office, other 
political action committees or political party committees. 
While our corporate organization pays its administrative 
expenses, AMPAC is funded entirely through voluntary 
contributions from eligible employees (principally executives) 
and directors. Its activities are overseen by the AMPAC Board 
of Directors—which consists of our employees, including 
several vice presidents. 
AMPAC, through its outside independent counsel, regularly 
files its contributions reports with the Federal Election 
Commission, and these are available online.
Detailed reporting on our 
political contributions is 
available at the end of 
this report and through 
our website.Applied Materials CSR Report 201734About the Company (Fiscal Y ear)  2015 2016 2017
Revenue ($Billions)  $9.66 $10.83 $14.54
Net Income ($Billions)  $1.38 $1.72 $3.43
R&D ($Billions)  $1.45 $1.54 $1.77
Number of employees  >14,600 >15,600 >18,400
Number of patents  >10,200 >10,200 >11,900
Number of locations/ countries  81 locations 82 locations 90 locations 
  in 18 countries in 17 countries in 17 countries
Environmental Sustainability (Calendar Y ear) 2015 2016 2017
Energy Use Direct energy use (Gas) (Million Therms) 3.8 3.8 4.2
  Indirect energy use (Electricity) (GWh)1 331 345 354
 Renewable energy (Electricity) (GWh)1 65 59 63
Water Water use2 (CCF) 522,802 528,120 594,014
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions T otal direct and indirect GHG emissions 170,613 170,634 173,491 
 by weight (MTCe) (Scope 1+2)3
 Other relevant indirect GHG emissions 11,390 11,643 17,322 
 by weight (MTCe) (Scope 3 air travel)
Waste & Recycling T otal weight of waste by type and disposal method (metric tons):
 Hazardous waste treated off-site 223 319 316
  Landfill (non-hazardous) 3,136 2,187 4,488
  Recycled/ composted/ diverted 7,906 8,795 13,372
  Diversion rate 71.7% 78.0% 75.0%1 Renewable energy consists of a combination of 
onsite generation and green power purchases.
2 Amounts for owned facilities include domestic, 
landscaping and process (if any) usage. Amounts 
for leased facilities include domestic and process 
(if any) usage, while leased office-only facilities 
include domestic usage only.
3 Indicates Applied’s worldwide direct and 
indirect GHG emissions for the last three years 
(MTCe=metric tons of carbon equivalent).
Performance IndicatorsApplied Materials CSR Report 201735Workplace (Fiscal Y ear)  2015 2016 2017
 Safety     
North America T otal case incidence rate (TCIR) 0.69 0.55 0.46
  Injuries or illnesses resulting in days away from work,  0.46 0.29 0.29 
 restricted work activity, or job transfer for every 100 
 employees (Days Away and Restricted Time or DART)
 Number of work-related fatalities 0 0 0
Worldwide TCIR 0.46 0.44 0.41
 Injuries or illnesses resulting in days away from work, 0.32 0.26 0.30 
 restricted work activity, or job transfer for every 100 
 employees (DART)
 Number of work-related fatalities 0 0 0
 Number of ergonomic evaluations performed 1,208 1,557 2,929
 Training and development     
Average hours of training Regular full-time employees (RFT) 41 41  53 
per year per person
 T otal (RFT, temps, contractors, interns) 30 30 40
 Percentage of employees receiving regular 96% 99% 99% 
 performance and career development reviews
 Diversity and Inclusion     
 Women on Applied Board of Directors 19% 27% 22%
 Human Rights     
 Percentage of operations that have been subject to 0% 0% 0% 
 human rights reviews or impact assessments, by country
Performance IndicatorsApplied Materials CSR Report 201736Social Responsibility (Fiscal Y ear)  2015 2016 2017
Community T otal community investments $9.5M $9.1M $10.1M 
 by Applied and the Applied Materials  
 Foundation (excludes administrative) 
 T otal Giving through the Foundation $3.8M $4.1M $5.9M 
 Match Program (employee gifts plus match)
 T otal Volunteer Time Grant hours logged 14,325 13,501 16,670
 T otal contributions issued by 42,900 36,100 59,000 
 Applied Materials Foundation 
 based on Time Grant hours
Public Policy T otal value of financial and in-kind 0 $30,000 $5,000 
 contributions to political parties, candidates, 
 and related institutions by Applied Materials1
 T otal value of financial and in-kind $70,000 $68,500 $85,500 
 contributions to political parties, candidates, 
 and related institutions by AMPAC1
Performance Indicators
1 Percentages may not add up to 100% due to 
rounding.Applied Materials CSR Report 201737
Resources and References
For more information about Applied Materials, visit our website at www.appliedmaterials.com. Additional information regarding 
Applied Materials’ business and its corporate responsibility’s activities are available on our website at the following links:
» 2017 Annual Report with 10-K
» Carbon Disclosure Project (Annual Water Use and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reports)
» Conflict Minerals Policy and Reporting
» Corporate Governance
» Corporate Responsibility
» CSR Reports (archived)
» Environmental, Health and Safety Policy
» ISO Certifications
» Press Releases
» 2017 Political contributions and U.S. Trade, Business and Civic Associations list
» Organizational Profile
» Transparency in Supply Chains Act
Direct questions or comments about this report to our sustainability reporting team at: corporate_responsibility@amat.com.LEGAL DISCLOSURE
© 2017 Applied Materials, Inc. Applied Materials and the 
Applied Materials logo are trademarks of Applied Materials, 
Inc. and/ or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. 
Third party trademarks mentioned are the property of 
their respective owners. Fortune World’s Most Admired 
Companies logo from FORTUNE Magazine, March, 2017 © 
2017 From FORTUNE Magazine, March, 2017 © 2017 Time 
Inc. FORTUNE and The World’s Most Admired Companies 
are registered trademarks of Time Inc. and are used under 
license. FORTUNE and Time Inc. are not affiliated with, and 
do not endorse products or services of, Licensee.