corporate citizenship report2015 2 applied materials Citizenship report 2015
in 2015, a pplied Materials delivered solid growth and made  
significant progress toward our long-term strategic and financial 
goals. o ur leadership in materials engineering is making key  
technology inflections possible, and creates a great foundation for future growth and exciting new opportunities for our employees. 
as part of our company culture, we believe in making a positive 
contribution to the industries and communities in which we  
operate. a pplied proactively reinforces environmental stewardship 
through innovative products and manufacturing methods, we  
invest in the communities where we work and live across the 
globe, and we strive to enrich our workplace culture for our  
employees. We are proud that our accomplishments earned us  a place on the annual 100 Best c orporate c itizens list published 
by Corporate Responsibility Magazine .
i invite you to learn more about the company’s sustainability, 
workplace and community programs in the 2015 a pplied Materials 
corporate c itizenship r eport.
Gary Dickerson  
president and ceo3 applied materials Citizenship report 2015
2015 corporate citizenship report
      about t his r eport
 this 2015 c itizenship r eport is the annual 
sustainability report of applied Materials, inc. 
and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as “applied” or “the company”). applied Materials 
issued its first c itizenship r eport in 2007. t he 
2015 report falls within the general guidelines of the Global r eporting initiative™ (Gri) 
reporting Framework (Version 3.1). t his report 
includes information about the company’s economic, environmental and social performance,  
including resource metrics, community 
investments, workplace and political activities. 
it reflects the global operations of applied for calendar year 2015, except where indicated that data is for applied’s fiscal year, which ends on the last sunday in october. applied’s global operational footprint fluctuates with business acquisitions and divestitures, as well as the 
expansion, consolidation and relocation of its 
overall operations. t hese changes are, in part,  
a result of the highly cyclical and evolving nature of the primary industries the company serves. a cquired businesses and operations  
are included from the date of acquisition.
 
 a list of additional resources relating to applied’s 
business and sustainability performance is 
located in the appendix of this report.sUstainaBilitY
 7 Managing 
environmental  
impact
 8 energy
 9 Water
 9 Greenhouse  
Gas e missions
11 Waste &  
recyclingCommUnitY
13 community  
investments
16 responding  
to Disaster
16 employee  
engagementworkpla Ce
18 training &  
Development
18 Diversity
19 ethics
19 safety
21 human r ights
21 public p olicy
appendix
23 resources &  
references4 applied materials Citizenship report 2015
We use materials engineering to improve the way people live. By creating 
and modifying materials at an atomic level and on an industrial scale, we 
make possible breakthrough innovations that shape the future.  For fiscal year ended o ctober 25, 2015FY2015 COMPANY OVERVIEW
$9.7  billion revenue >10,200  patents $1.5 billion r &d  
investment
AMAT stock listing 
on nasda Qheadquartered in  
California’s Silicon Valley>14,000  employees  
81 locations in  
18 countries
5 applied materials Citizenship report 2015
at applied Materials, our innovations make possible  
the technology shaping the future. r ooted in this vision  
is the notion that innovative technologies can improve 
people’s lives. 
From the health and well-being of our employees and their communities, to our  
sustainable business practices and corporate governance, every aspect of our business  
supports the goal of building a better future for all. t he company demonstrates this  
commitment through our corporate citizenship investments in three key areas:  
sustainability, c ommunity and the Workplace.
sustainaB ility  
practices
applied is committed to 
sustaining our business in an environmentally and socially responsible way, and we take strong measures to protect the health and safety of workers, customers and neighboring communities. coMM unity  
inVest Ments
the company makes  
strategic investments around the world in education, civic engagement, the arts and the environment to improve communities where we  work and live.Workplace  
culture
the company is dedicated 
to attracting, developing and retaining a world-class global workforce and  respecting the local culture of the regions where we  
do business.6 applied materials Citizenship report 2015
in 2015, the company continued to turn our sustainability objectives 
and practices into results, improve and enrich communities where we 
have a presence, and ensure a safe, thriving workplace for employees. 
applied Materials is committed to positively impacting our environment. 
our five guiding sustainability principles are: improve energy efficiency; 
design for the environment; promote environmental awareness among 
employees and the public; minimize pollution wherever possible;  
and conserve resources. t hese principles are demonstrated through 
the way we conduct our daily business. o ur dedication to sustainability  
is reinforced through our membership in the e lectronics i ndustry  
citizenship c oalition ( eicc ).SuSTAINAbIlITY
in this s ection
 »managing e nvironmental i mpact
 »energy
 »water
 »Greenhouse Gas e mission
 »waste & r ecycling7 applied materials Citizenship report 2015
How We Manage Our Environmental Impact
applied exhibits responsibility towards the environment through our e nvironmental 
health & s afety ( ehs ) program, manufacturing practices, business operations,  
supply chain initiatives, and the way we operate in our communities.
our supply c hain organization collaborates with suppliers to encourage and  
support best ehs practices and initiatives that can benefit both the environment  
and our respective businesses. r esults are monitored through training, auditing  
and routine reporting.the company uses its e nvironmental Management s ystem ( eMs), which is modeled 
on the i nternational o rganization for s tandardization ( iso) 14001 standard, to  
measure a pplied’s environmental performance. a pplied began utilizing an e Ms in 
2004, when we iso 14001-certified our a ustin, t exas manufacturing location.  
since then, we obtained the iso 14001 certification for our manufacturing sites in  
singapore, i srael, Montana, t aiwan and i taly. i n 2015, our n ew p roduct i ntegration 
(npi) operation in s anta c lara, c alifornia was the seventh global location to obtain 
iso 14001 certification. a pplied’s certification roadmap includes registration of 
three additional global manufacturing sites: Gloucester, Massachusetts, and  
alzenau and h eimstetten, Germany. 
in conjunction with the e Ms, applied uses its e nergy and s ustainability s ystem 
(ess) software to accurately capture and track the company’s environmental  
impact. t he ess enables the company to collect, analyze, interpret, act on and report 
power and water consumption, waste generation, greenhouse gas (G hG) emissions 
(scope 1 and 2 under the “Greenhouse Gas p rotocol”*) and business travel data 
(scope 3*) with consistent units and correlation to global reporting standards. t he 
data that are tracked and consolidated originate primarily from information provided 
on a calendar year basis by utilities and other third parties. our s upply Chain  
organization collaborates  
with suppliers to encourage and support best ehs  
practices and initiatives  
that can benefit both the  
environment and our  
respective businesses.  
results are monitored 
through training, auditing  
and routine reporting.
* the GhG p rotocol is a widely-used international accounting tool for quantifying and analyzing greenhouse gas emissions. it was 
created by a partnership between the World r esources institute and the World Business c ouncil for sustainable Development.8 APPLIED MATERIALS CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2 015ANNU AL W ORLD WIDE  
ENERGY C ONSUMP TION2013 2014 2015
Direct energy consumption by primary 
energy source (Gas) (Million Therms)4.0 4.0 3.8
Indirect energy consumption by primary source (Electricity) (GWh)
1 311 327 331
Renewable energy (Electricity) (GWh)1, 268 68 65
1 Data for reporting years 2013 and 2014 have been modiﬁed to account for Applied’s sale of Renewable Energy Certiﬁcates 
(RECs). 
2Renewable energy consists of on-site generation from Applied’s solar arrays in Austin, Singapore and China and green power
RECs purchased in Austin and Santa Clara.
Energy
Applied’ s energy usag e sustainability st rategy focuses o n two core are as: maximizin g the 
 energy required for ou r business , such as through energ y management 
control systems, lighting an d other facilitie s infrast ructure upgr ades ; and producing 
renewa ble energy at Applied fa cilities and/or purchasin g such energy from loca l utilities. 
As an integ ral part of ou r clean energ y initiatives, Applied installed a  wind turbine at our 
Gloucester, Massach usetts fac ility in 2012, which has generated 20.7 GWh of energy.  
Applied sells the r enewabl e energy certiﬁ cates (RECs ) associated w ith the wind turbine in 
support of the Massachusetts Department of Energy Resources (DOER) Renewable Energy 
Portfolio S tandard.  Due to a techn ical problem in S eptember 2015, the turb ine was s hut 
dow n and is curr ently in repair. It is expe cted t o be f ully o pera tional by t he end of 2016.  
Applied’s  Santa Clara, California  and A ustin, Texas fa cilities su pport their ener gy needs with 
purchases o f gree n energy  (renewab le energy from wind o r solar sources) from local  utility 
provide rs. The  green  energy purc hased su ppor ted 1 00 perc ent of the p owe r dem and for  our 
two San
ta Clara campu ses and app roximately 2 8 pe rcent  of Austin’s e lectricity dem and in 
2015. In addition, solar panel arrays at Applied’s fa cilities in Sunnyv ale, California; Si ngapor e; 
Xi’an, China  and Au stin, Texas  generated  a tota l of 3.5 GWh of ener gy in 2015.
The f ollowing Annual W orldw ide Energy Consu mptio n table shows direct and indir ect 
worldw ide energ y consumption at A pplied’s facilities for the last three  years, inclu ding t he 
amount  of energy  obtain ed from  renew able sources.Green energy supported  
100% of t he powe r dem and  
for our two Santa Clara cam puses  
and a pproximately 28% of  
Au
stin’s ele ctricit y dem and. 
Sola r panel array s at Applied’s 
facilitie s in Sunnyvale, Californ ia; 
Singapore; Xi’an , China and  
Austin, Texa s generate d a total  
of 3.5 GWh of energy . 9 applied materials Citizenship report 2015annU al w orldwide  
water Usa Ge2013 2014 2015
Worldwide total water usage ( ccF)1538,894 566,804 522,802
1  amounts for owned facilities include domestic, landscaping and process (if any) usage. amounts for leased facilities  
include domestic and process (if any) usage, while leased office-only facilities include domestic usage only.
Water
the company regularly analyzes its water usage patterns and determines ways to 
minimize water consumption across our operations. Water usage totals will fluctuate 
with business activity, research and development needs and product life cycle development.
in 2015, average water usage decreased by eight percent. a pplied implemented the 
austin i ndustrial Waste n eutralization ( iWn) program in s eptember 2015, which is 
anticipated to save the company 6 million gallons of water annually. i ts positive future 
impact was recognized by the c ity of a ustin for e xcellence in Water c onservation in 2015.
the table below shows water usage for the last three years ( ccF=100 cubic feet).
Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
applied’s greenhouse gas (G hG) emissions are a result of energy usage and equipment 
process emissions. t he company has a long-standing commitment to support efforts  
to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions through policies and programs, product  
manufacturing processes and solutions offered to customers. in 2015, our G hG emissions remained flat from 2014 due to a three percent increase  
in our electricity usage, coupled with a three percent decrease in our natural gas usage. 
scope 3 emissions (indirect releases) decreased 45 percent year-over-year primarily 
due to reduction in business-related air travel.
The company regularly seeks new ways to  
conserve and recycle its water. The Austin 
Industrial Waste Neutralization (IWN) Program, launched in September, 2015, is set to have a substantial future impact on water usage—a savings of approximately 16,000 gallons of water per day, or 6 million gallons per year. Its positive environmental impact was recognized by the City of Austin for Excellence in Water  Conservation in 2015.
Prior to the IWN program, the Austin wet tool 
manufacturing operations tested waste distilled water and used reverse osmosis to neutralize the water and then discharged it to the City of Austin publically-owned treatment works (POTW).  
The IWN reclamation program reuses treated 
industrial waste water in the cooling towers  
at the Austin manufacturing facility as make-up water. Each gallon of reclaimed IWN waste water added to the cooling towers for make-up directly replaces clean city water that would otherwise have been used. Excess volumes of reclaimed waste water continue to flow through the lift station to the City of Austin POTW.
During the cooler months, the recycled waste 
water is expected to provide over 90 percent of the total cooling tower make-up water and will augment the original make-up water source during hotter months.   Austin Water Reclamation Program 
to Save 6 Million Gallons Annually10 applied materials Citizenship report 2015annU al w orldwide GreenhoUse 
Gas emissions1 2013 2014 2015
total direct and indirect greenhouse gas  
emissions by weight (M tce) (scope 1+2)1 169,571 163,703 170,613
other relevant indirect greehouse gas emissions 
by weight (M tce) (scope 3 air travel)18,690 20,724 11,390
1 indicates applied’s worldwide direct and indirect GhG emissions for the last three years (M tce=metric tons of  
carbon equivalent); however, does not include renewable energy that is sold into the rec trading market. 
the table below shows a pplied’s worldwide direct and indirect G hG emissions for the 
last three years.
to address global-warming potential (GW p), the company takes a proactive, cost-effective 
approach to reduce gaseous chemicals used in products, such as perfluorocarbons ( pFcs) 
and sulfur hexafluoride ( sF6). For instance, the a pplied a eris™-G pre-pump plasma 
abatement solution, with more than 1,000 customer installations, uses less energy treating  
the actual process gas volume, a smaller and more concentrated volume than what is treated 
by post-pump abatement units. t he plasma dissociation, combined with the low volume of 
nitrogen in the a eris-G chamber during abatement, reduces nitrogen oxide emissions to near 
zero. t he product also saves subfab space, reduces utility and exhaust connections and 
minimizes installation costs, while improving abatement efficiency. u nits are synchronized 
with chamber operation and operate on-demand to lower electricity usage and reduce the cost of ownership.
applied has a long history of supporting employee programs that help reduce greenhouse 
gas emissions. s ome of these programs include: carpool/ride-matching and vanpool service 
for c alifornia, t exas and Massachusetts employees; public and alternative transportation 
incentives for c alifornia employees; electrical vehicle charging stations at our s anta c lara 
and s unnyvale campuses and a ustin site; and preferred parking for carpools, hybrid and 
electric vehicles in a ustin and s anta c lara. 
applied continues to offer its Work-From- home ( applied anywhere) program with 417  
participants and 18 telepresence rooms for virtual meetings.11 applied materials Citizenship report 2015annU al worldwide waste,  
reCYClinG and diVersion2013 2014 2015
total weight of waste by type and disposal 
method (metric tons): 
 hazardous waste treated off-site 610 458 223
 landfill (non-hazardous) 3,351 4,320 3,136
 recycled/ composted/ diverted 7,787 7, 276 7,906
 Diversion rate (%) 66.3 60.1 71.7
recycled/
composted/
diverted12%the company also provides employee discounts for the purchase and installation of solar 
panels for their homes. t hrough the e mployee s olar p rogram, eligible employees can receive 
a rebate of up to $1,500 through an approved vendor. t his program is offered in addition to 
state and/or local rebate programs in several areas in the u .s. with a pplied operations.
Waste and Recycling
applied consistently works to reduce its solid waste and hazardous and non-hazardous waste 
and to increase its recycling and diversion rates. t he total amount of hazardous waste or non-
hazardous waste generated depends on fluctuations and changes in business demand, facility 
system or process improvements and the use of enhanced materials controls and management. 
in 2015, the amount of hazardous waste decreased by 52 percent and non-hazardous waste 
decreased by 28 percent. t he reduction in hazardous waste was primarily due to removal of 
a santa c lara campus machine that generates copper-containing liquid waste, while a second 
machine had limited activity during the year. a dditionally, a newly-installed waste management 
process in s anta c lara was fully operational during 2015.
applied’s offices, campuses and manufacturing facilities globally implement recycling programs 
to decrease non-hazardous waste and increase waste diversion. a ctivities include recycling of 
solid materials, cafeteria items and building materials, as well as creation of reusable packaging 
for shipping and other uses. 2015 waste redUC tion
hazardous 
waste
landfill52%
28%12 applied materials Citizenship report 2015
as a responsible global citizen, we strive to make a positive contribution 
to the communities where we live and to the world around us. We live 
this core value through initiatives and programs that support community 
involvement, corporate philanthropy and employee engagement,  
working with organizations that offer programs and services without discrimination toward any group or individual.
the company and the a pplied Materials Foundation focus their  
community investments in four key areas: quality education, strong civic 
leadership, a vibrant arts and culture scene, and increased environmental 
awareness. a pplied also encourages employees to engage in their local 
community through volunteerism and giving, matching employee gifts and volunteer hours to not-for-profit organizations. in this s ection
 »Community i nvestments
 »responding t o disaster
 »employee e ngagementCOMMuNITY   13 applied materials Citizenship report 2015annU al C ommUnitY inVestment 2013 2014 2015
total community investments by applied and 
its applied Materials Foundation ($ millions) 
(excludes administrative)110.4 9.3 9.5
total Giving through the Foundation Match  
program (employee gifts plus match in $ millions)1 3.7 3.5 3.8
total Volunteer t ime Grant hours logged 15, 442 16, 917 14,325
total contributions issued by applied Materials 
Foundation based on t ime Grant hours44, 520 46,600 42,900
1  Data is for fiscal year.
examples of our 2015 work are highlighted in the following sections.
advancing e ducational a chievement
Because our business is built on the power of ideas, a pplied is committed to inspiring the 
next generation of innovators, adopting a collaborative approach to advancing education 
achievement and teacher professional development in specific neighborhoods.
applied’s e ducation i nitiative in silicon Valley, c alifornia and a ustin, t exas aims to narrow 
the academic achievement gap by working across sectors to benefit underserved students. 
the e ast side a lliance, comprised of eight school districts in s an Jose and numerous funders Community Investments 
applied Materials demonstrates its commitment to the community by investing in hundreds 
of organizations around the world. t he company directs its grantmaking towards the unique 
needs of each region, aligning investments with the company’s four philanthropic focus areas and geographies where we have a presence. 
in fiscal year 2015, applied and the a pplied Materials Foundation granted $9.5 million to  
communities around the globe. t he following c ommunity i nvestment table shows key data 
for the last three years.
Because our business  
is built on the power of 
ideas, applied is committed to inspiring the next  
generation of innovators.14 applied materials Citizenship report 2015
and nonprofit organizations, facilitates school district collaboration focused on ensuring 
approximately 85,000 k -12 e ast side students graduate from high school prepared to 
thrive in a college environment. similarly, e 3 alliance, a regional education collaborative 
in austin, convenes public and private partners to transform teaching and learning in 
middle schools that helps improve student achievement. 
in rehovot, i srael, a pplied enhanced its support of after-school centers for disadvantaged 
children in the o shiot neighborhood. a pplied Materials i srael also sustained its strong  
collaboration with sinai s chool, including cash support, employee volunteerism and  
student mentorship. additionally, through se Mi Foundation’s h igh t ech u niversity, the company joined other 
industry leaders in funding semiconductor career exploration workshops for students in 
the u .s., Japan and k orea, inspiring their interest in science, technology and engineering.
strengthening Communities
With the mission of improving the way people live around the world, a pplied acts on its  
responsibility to strengthen local communities through increased access to affordable  housing and building capacity of the nonprofit sector.
in 2015, the company participated in efforts to increase opportunities for families to 
secure stable housing. i n phoenix, a rizona, a pplied supported h ouse of r efuge to provide 
shelter to homeless families participating in a basic skills training. i n silicon Valley, the 
company funded t he h ousing t rust’s rental deposit program and took an active role in 
local efforts to increase the supply of affordable housing. o utside the u .s., applied  
employee volunteers leveraged a grant to h abitat for h umanity k orea to construct 
solar-powered houses for disadvantaged families.in support of building the capacity of the nonprofit sector to address community needs, 
the company worked with Mission c apital to convene a ustin, t exas grantees for the 2015  
applied Materials a dvancement a cademy. i n a post-workshop survey, nearly 100 
percent of the participants agreed that the program, which focused on nonprofit project 
management, would make both an immediate and long-term impact on their organization.   15 applied materials Citizenship report 2015
aligned with our sustainability 
principle to promote environmental 
awareness among employees and the public, a pplied invests in nature 
education programs for youth and community-based projects.
Championing arts and Culture 
as a company that thrives on innovation, a pplied continued its long-term commitment  
to creative expression by investing in local arts and culture activities. 
the company supported dozens of exhibitions and performances offered by local arts  
organizations in n orth a merica, including summer musical theatre in k alispell, Montana,  
symphony productions in Gloucester, Massachusetts and art exhibits in s an Jose, c alifornia. 
in taiwan, the company marked the 15th anniversary of the a pplied Materials t aiwan a rt  
Festival, celebrating public appreciation of the arts. since the program began, it has reached 
over 56,000 art and music enthusiasts, including 8,500 attendees in 2015.
applied also renewed its investment in the s hanghai c haryou y outh Volunteer s ervice c enter  
in china to support the a rts t alent c amp for western minority youth. t he program includes  
mentoring from artists, visits to art museums and exposure to multi-cultural environments.
Cultivating e nvironmental a wareness
aligned with our sustainability principle to promote environmental awareness among  
employees and the public, a pplied invests in nature education programs for youth and  
community-based projects.in Gloucester, Massachusetts, we invested in the launch of a new school gardens program, 
which enabled 1,600 pre- k through 6th grade students to plant, harvest and eat fresh  
vegetables from school gardens and local farms. t he company supports similar projects in 
austin and silicon Valley. 
applied also made a grant to t he Jane Goodall i nstitute s hanghai’s y outh for e nvironmental 
sustainability program, enabling more than 2,000 students from 55 schools in s hanghai,  
Xi’an, s uzhou, Wuxi and Beijing c hina to participate in environmental education. i n taiwan,  
funding for the is hare c ommunity Development a ssociation facilitated environmental  
education for 7,000 students across 12 h sinchu high schools.
in addition, company volunteers in i ndia, k orea and t aiwan joined with other local community 
members to plant native vegetation and trees at several regional parks, lakes and preserves 
throughout the year. 16 applied materials Citizenship report 2015
Responding to Disaster
as a global citizen, applied supports relief and recovery efforts in the aftermath of disasters  
impacting areas where the company, customers or employees have a presence or where 
there is significant community need. 
Following the 7.8 magnitude earthquake in nepal in april 2015, applied responded with 
a donation to the american red cross, which partnered with its nepal chapter to help 
550,000 victims in the country.  
in June 2015, after an explosi on that injured 500 at a recreati onal  water park i n new taipei, 
taiwan, applied employees and the company funded efforts by the sunshine social  
Welfare Foundation to provide burn rehabilitation services, including physical and  
occupational therapy, as well as psychosocial support. 
applied also renewed its funding of children Without Borders to support the long-term 
needs of victims from the March 201 1 Japan earthquak e and tsunami . the program's 
bus circulated am ong temporary hous ing areas providin g children with a place to do 
their homework and play with fri ends after schoo l. 
Emplo yee Engagement
applied facilitates and encourages global employee engagement through matching gifts, 
volunteer time grants and after-hours opportunities.
the company’s annual food drive efforts around the world provide nutritional food to  
those in need. applied’s 2015 north america Food Drive broke its previous record, raising 
$1.6 million for u.s. food banks. in india, the company held its fourth annual Food Drive, 
donating more than $33,000 usD for at-risk pop ulations. applied Materials singap ore  
raised over $34,000 usD for its Food From the heart project, benefiting over 3,800  low-
income individuals.  
2015 also marked 20 years of annu al fundraising for the Dublin  simon community  by 
applied Materials i reland. this year , the event rais ed approximately  $50,000 usD fo r 
housing refurbishment of 21 bedrooms and two apartments for the area’s underserved  
and homeless.
The tradition of Helping Hands Day began 
in 1995, when a small group of employees and their families helped pack boxes of food for Second Harvest Food Bank of Santa Clara and San Mateo Counties. 
The event has grown over the years into 
the company’s biggest annual employee volunteer event in Santa Clara, packing over 78,000 boxes with more than 25  
million pounds of food.
Over the years, Helping Hands Day has 
expanded to meet the increasing demand for food bank services in Silicon Valley. In 2015, a record 6,010 boxes of food were packed by 312 volunteers—some of whom have participated for all 20 years.
Through Helping Hands Day and other 
food drive activities, we are honored to partner with organizations to address food insecurity issues in the communities where we work and live.Helping Hands Day  
Celebrates 20 Years17 applied materials Citizenship report 2015
applied Materials’ innovation begins with our people. By achieving great 
results together in an environment where employees do their best, the 
company succeeds. 
this value is reflected in our culture of growth, diversity, safety and 
ethics focused on creating meaningful careers at the company. We 
foster personal and professional development opportunities for  
employees through a pplied Global university, experiences, exposure 
and education. a t the end of fiscal 2015, a pplied’s global workforce 
included approximately 14,000 regular employees (not including  
temporary employees or interns), spanning 81 locations in 18 countries. in this s ection
 »training & d evelopment
 »diversity
 »ethics
 »safety
 »human r ights
 »public p olicyWORkPlACE  18 applied materials Citizenship report 2015traininG & deVelopment 2013 2014 2015
average hours of training per year per person 
by category: regular full-time employees (rFt)
total (rFt , temps, contractors, interns)44 RFT
32 T otal41.5 RFT
28.5 T otal41 RFT
30 T otal
percentage of employees receiving regular 
performance and career development reviews1 98 98 95
1 every employee is encouraged to complete an annual performance evaluation. Following the performance evaluation, employees  
are also encouraged to set a development goal. in 2015, 63 percent of employees had a development goal in place.
Diversity 
at applied, we respect each individual, welcome diversity and embrace different perspectives 
as a key component of innovation. t he company commits to workplace diversity through  
its policies, programs and initiatives. t hese include recruiting, community involvement, 
employee resource groups ( erG), and recognition programs events in  
santa c lara, a ustin, i ndia and other global locations.
our er Gs, for example, provide an open forum to express a dimension of diversity or shared 
interest and help strengthen the connection to local communities. a pplied sponsors more than 
a dozen er Gs, including h ispanics in partnership ( hip); the Black e mployee n etwork; y oung 
professionals n etwork; and the Women’s p rofessional Development n etwork (W pDn).
some 2015 diversity program highlights included the 10th anniversary of the s anta c lara 
chapter of W pDn, annual Diversity Day celebrations in s anta c lara and a ustin; and 
decade-long recognition on the list of Victory Media’s “ top 100 Military Friendly e mployers.”Training and Development 
the table below reflects key data for the past three years on the company’s workforce internal 
formal training hours. i n addition, we support and encourage employees to develop their skills 
and knowledge in a variety of ways. t hese developmental opportunities include stretch,  
rotational and project assignments within the company, often on cross-functional teams.  
applied employees also benefit from educational offerings at local universities, through  
professional membership associations and via access to an in-house technical library. 
at applied materials, 
we respect each  
individual, welcome 
diversity and embrace different perspectives as a key component  
of innovation. 19 applied materials Citizenship report 2015
our ehs management s ystem 
aligns and integrates with our 
site business processes and  incorporates formal risk  
assessments and mitigation practices, validated by routine internal audits of major  
sites and periodic third-  
party audits of our certified manufacturing sites. Ethics
applied’s core values include responsibility, integrity, mutual trust and respect. t hese 
values are foundational to our success—they are a vital part of our culture and integral 
to the way we work with employees, customers, suppliers, competitors and the public. 
to reinforce our commitment to ethics, in n ovember 2015, a pplied Materials held its 
annual e thics Week, which included a variety of compliance communications from 
senior executives and interactive sessions in s anta c lara and a ustin. t he e thics Week 
events focused on our commitment to conduct all aspects of business with integrity  
and honesty, speak up if we see or suspect something is wrong, and be open and  
honest at all times. similar e thics Week events will occur at all of a pplied’s major 
global locations in 2016.in 2015, for the fourth consecutive year, a pplied was named a World’s Most e thical 
company® by the e thisphere i nstitute, an independent center of research promoting 
best practices in corporate ethics and governance.
Safety at Applied
applied conducts its business operations in a manner that protects the health and 
safety of workers, customers and neighboring communities. We are committed to  
complying with or exceeding all relevant regulatory requirements. 
our environmental, h ealth and s afety ( ehs ) Management s ystem aligns and integrates 
with our site business processes and incorporates formal risk assessments and mitigation 
practices, validated by routine internal audits of major sites and periodic third-party audits of our certified manufacturing sites. t he ehs Management s ystem includes 
safety self-inspections, walkthroughs, safety review board meetings and committees, training and new chemical approvals, among other ongoing activities. 
applied Materials’ manufacturing sites that are registered to o ccupational h ealth  
and s afety a ssessment s eries ( ohsas ) standard 18001 include: a ustin, t exas and 
santa c lara, c alifornia ( new p roduct i ntegration site); singapore; and t ainan, t aiwan.  
applied’s certification roadmap includes registration of five additional global  20 applied materials Citizenship report 2015saFetY perF ormanCe12013 2014 2015
north america
 total case incidence rate (tcir) 0.71 0.70 0.69
 injuries or illnesses resulting in days away 
from work, restricted work activity, or job transfer for every 100 employees (Days away & r estricted t ime or D art)0.47 0.38 0.46
 number of work-related fatalities 0 0 0
Worldwide
 tcir 0.48 0.46 0.46
 injuries or illnesses resulting in days away from work, restricted work activity, or job transfer for every 100 employees (Days away & r estricted t ime or D art)0.33 0.26 0.32
 number of work-related fatalities 0 0 0
 number of office ergonomic evaluations performed934 1,079 1,208
1 Data is for each of the fiscal years.
manufacturing sites: k alispell, Montana; Gloucester, Massachusetts; r ehovot, i srael;  
and a lzenau and h eimstetten, Germany. a ll non-registered sites utilize the same  
elements of the ehs Management s ystem to align with appropriate environmental,  
health and safety practices globally. 
the table below details the company’s safety performance metrics for the past three fiscal 
years. Worldwide safety results remained flat between 2014 to 2015. a dditionally, the 
company had no environmental, safety or regulatory notices of violations or fines in fiscal 2015. 21 applied materials Citizenship report 2015hUman riGhts indiC ator 2013 2014 2015
number and percentage of operations that have 
been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments, by country0 0 0
2015 THOMSON REUTERS
TOP 100
BAY AREA INNO VATORHuman Rights 
applied Materials is committed to human rights. We consistently strive to operate in an 
ethical and responsible manner, both with our workforce and through our supply chain. o ur 
standards of Business c onduct includes several important provisions about human rights, 
including prohibitions on the use of child labor or forced, bonded or indentured labor in our 
operations; and harsh or inhumane treatment, including corporal punishment or the threat of corporal punishment. i n 2013, a pplied reinforced and clarified its prohibition on child labor in 
all countries in which it operates by implementing a Global p olicy for c hild l abor a voidance.
  
Public Policy   
as a responsible corporate citizen, a pplied interacts with government officials, elected 
representatives and candidates, and provides information about the company, our business and stakeholders, including trade associations of which we are a member. t his includes 
efforts through our Government a ffairs group to shape public policy on certain issues that 
affect the company’s business. i n 2015, these issues included budget and appropriations, 
energy, immigration, natural resources, regulatory, and tax and trade issues. t he company’s 
lobbying activities are disclosed in periodic reports filed with the u .s. senate and u .s. house 
of representatives or the appropriate state agency (such as the c alifornia s ecretary of 
state, n ew y ork s tate Joint c ommittee on e thics, or s ecretary of the c ommonwealth of 
Massachusetts), as applicable.  
consistent with u .s. campaign finance law, the a pplied Materials, i nc. p olitical a ction  
committee ( aMpac ) may make campaign contributions to candidates for state or u .s. federal 
office, other political action committees and political party committees where permitted. we are honored to be consistently recognized for  
our achievements by many industry organizations  
and publications. s ome 2015 highlights include:
 »Corporate Responsibility  magazine’s annual list of  
100 Best Corporate Citizens for 12 years
 »FORTUNE  magazine’s w orld’s m ost a dmired  
Companies® for two decades, regularly ranking  
among the top 5 in the semiconductor industry 
 »Newsweek Magazine’s t op Greenest Companies  
in america since it began in 2009
 »Victory Media’s t op 100 m ilitary Friendly  
employers® for 10 years running
 »Computerworld’s  Best p laces to w ork in it for  
six years consecutively
 »listing on first Thomson Reuters ’ top Bay  
area i nnovators 
 »debut on Silicon Valley Business Journal’s  2015  
top h ealthiest e mployers in the Greater Bay a reaCommitted to  
Corporate Citizenship22 applied materials Citizenship report 2015politiC al C ontriBUtions 2013 2014 20152
total value of financial and in-kind  
contributions to political parties,  
politicians, and related institutions  by applied Materials, inc.
1$12,500 $6,500 $0
total value of financial and in-kind  
contributions to political parties,  politicians, and related institutions  by aMpac.
1$56,000 $68,000 $70,000
1  all contributions are made in the u.s. only. 
2 Detailed 2015 contributions by applied and aMpac can be found as part of the 2015 p olitical Disclosure r eport.
aMpac is funded through voluntary contributions from the company’s eligible employees 
(principally executives) and directors, although the company pays its administrative expenses. 
its activities are overseen by the a Mpac Board of Directors, consisting of a pplied employees, 
including several company vice presidents. a pplied’s state contributions committee  
(consisting of the same individuals who serve on the a Mpac Board) oversees corporate 
political spending.
the company occasionally makes financial and in-kind political contributions within the 
united s tates as permitted by applicable laws, such as contributions to candidates for  
california statewide offices and state legislatures. a ll contributions must be made for  
appropriate corporate purposes only, without regard for the private political preferences  
of executives. n either a pplied nor a Mpac makes contributions to so-called “super pac s” 
nor do they make political contributions outside the u nited s tates. a pplied does occasionally  
make independent expenditures in support of or in opposition to issue campaigns where 
permitted, but did not do so in 2015.   
additionally, a pplied belongs to various trade associations and similar organizations  
representing the range of issues that the company cares about and believes will benefit the 
company’s business activities.
More detailed information regarding political contributions or membership fees from a pplied 
and/or its a Mpac can be found as part of the 2015 Political Disclosure Report .23 applied materials Citizenship report 2015
resoUr Ces and reFerenCes
additional information regarding a pplied Materials’ business and its corporate  
citizenship activities are available on our website at the following links:
 »2015 a nnual r eport with 10- k 
 »awards and r ecognition
 »Carbon disclosure p roject (Annual Water Use and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reports)
 »Conflict m inerals p olicy and r eporting
 »Corporate Governance   
 »Corporate r esponsibility
 »Community 
 »sustainability
 »workplace
 »Corporate r esponsibility r eports
 »environmental, h ealth and s afety p olicy
 »how w e do it (A primer regarding our business, products, and industries we serve)
 »iso Certifications
 »2015 p olitical d isclosure r eport
 »press r eleases
 »organizational profile
 »transparency in s upply Chains a ct  legal disclosure
 safe harbor statement. t his report contains 
forward-looking statements, including those 
regarding applied’s performance, operations, strategies and goals, and other statements that 
are not historical facts. t hese statements are 
subject to risks and uncertainties that could 
cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements, and are not guarantees of future performance.  
information concerning these risks and  
uncertainties is contained in a pplied’s most 
recent reports filed with the securities and  
exchange c ommission. all forward-looking 
statements are based on management’s  
stimates, projections and assumptions as of June 17, 2016, and applied undertakes no  
obligation to update them. 
 © 2016 applied Materials, inc. applied Materials 
and the applied Materials logo are trademarks  of applied Materials, inc. and/ or its affiliates in the u.s. and other countries. t hird party 
trademarks mentioned are the property of their 
respective owners. Fortune World’s Most Admired 
Companies logo from FORTUNE Magazine, March 1, 2016 ©2016 Time Inc. Used under license. FORTUNE and Time Inc. are not affiliated with, and do not endorse products or services of, Applied Materials.APPENdIx
if you would like more information about a pplied Materials, visit our website at  
www.appliedmaterials.com . if you have specific questions or comments on the content of  
this report, contact our sustainability reporting team at: corporate_responsibility@amat.com .