COMP ANY 
OVER VIEWAPPLIED MA TERIALS
For ﬁscal y ear ended October 27, 2014 FY2014Regular F ull-Time 
Employees W orldwide
Number of Pa tents 
AwardedCompany F ounded 
and Headquarted in 
Silicon V alleyResear ch &
Development
Locations and C ountries
~10,50081 & 18
$9.1B$1.4B
11.10.67
Revenue~14, 000         PAGE 3 APPLIED MATERIALS c ITIzEnShIP REP oRT 2014
fRoM ThE
ceo
2014 was a landmark year for Applied Materials as we grew faster than  
our markets, made significant progress in our strategic and financial  
goals, accelerated product momentum and strengthened key areas of  
the organization. 
We continued to demonstrate our commitment to corporate responsibility 
and sustainability by helping to enrich employee culture and development in 
the workplace, creating a positive social impact in local communities where we 
work and live, and reinforcing our environmental stewardship with innovative 
products, manufacturing methods and workplace initiatives worldwide. 
In 2014, Applied was recognized by Corporate Responsibility Magazine  in its 
latest annual list of 100 Best c orporate c itizens for our performance in  
areas of the environment, employee relations, human rights, philanthropy 
and other key indicators.
I invite you to read the Applied Materials c orporate c itizenship Report to learn 
more about the company’s innovative programs and accomplishments that 
have had a positive impact on our employees, our communities and the world.  
Gary Dickerson  
President and c Eo
         PAGE 4 APPLIED MATERIALS c ITIzEnShIP REP oRT 2014
About This Report
This 2014 c itizenship Report is the ninth annual sustainability report of 
Applied Materials, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as 
“Applied” or “the company”). It follows the streamlined format of our 
2012 report and falls within the general guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative™ (GRI) Reporting f ramework (Version 3.1). This report includes 
information about the company’s economic, environmental and social performance, including resource metrics, community investments, work -
place and political activities. It reflects the global operations of Applied for 
calendar year 2014, except where indicated that data is for Applied’s fiscal 
year, which ends on the last Sunday in o ctober. Applied’s global operational 
footprint fluctuates with business acquisitions and divestitures, as well as 
the expansion, consolidation and relocation of its overall operations. These 
changes are, in part, a result of the highly cyclical and evolving nature of the primary industries the company serves. Acquired businesses and operations 
are included from the date of acquisition. 
A list of additional resources relating to Applied’s business and sustainability 
performance is located in the appendix of this report.CONTENTS
inTR oduc Tion  5
Corporate Responsibility  6
enviR onmenT  7
Environmental Impact  8
Energy   8
Water    9
Greenhouse Gas Emissions   10
Waste and Recycling   11
communiTy  12
Student Achievement  13
Environmental Awareness  14
Alleviating Hunger  15
Supporting the Arts 16
Responding to Disaster 17
woRkplA ce  18
Training and Development   19
Safety  20
Ethics   21
Human Rights   21
Public Policy  22
Appendix  23     PAGE 5
Being an industry leader isn’t just about market share,  
technology prowess or the size of a company’s workforce;  
it’s also about the way we interact with our employees, our 
customers, local communities where we operate and the  
environment we share. It is about acting responsibly with  
the highest business standards and integrity.
corporate responsibility is a fundamental principle of  
Applied Materials and a central part of our leadership in  
precision materials engineering solutions for the semiconductor, 
flat panel display and solar photovoltaic industries.
our business practices and programs are a reflection of the 
company’s commitment to employee development, engaging 
in projects around the world to enliven our communities and 
being a socially responsible corporate citizen.INTRODuCTION
CORPORATE RESPONSIbIlITy 
AT APPlIED MATERIAlS
Applied Materials focuses on three corporate citizenship  
areas integral to our business: Sustainability Practices,  
community Investments and the Workplace. 
SuSTAinAbiliTy pRA cTiceS
Applied Materials is committed to sustaining our business in an environmentally 
and socially responsible way, and we take strong measures to protect the 
health and safety of workers, customers and neighboring communities. 
communiTy inveST menTS
The company strategically invests its financial and human resources around 
the world in education, civic development, the environment and the arts to 
improve communities where we work and live.
woRkplA ce 
The company is dedicated to attracting, developing and retaining a world-
class global workforce and respecting the local culture of the regions where 
we do business. 
      I nTRoDUcTIon  |  PAGE 6 APPLIED MATERIALS c ITIzEnShIP REP oRT 2014  EnVIRonMEnT  |  PAGE 7
our commitment to being an environmentally and socially  
responsible company starts with four guiding principles:  
improving energy efficiency; designing for the environment; 
promoting environmental awareness among employees and 
the public; and minimizing pollution wherever possible.  
Applied’s commitment is further reinforced through its  
membership in the Electronic Industry c itizenship c oalition (EI cc). ENvIRONMENT* The GhG Protocol is a widely-used international accounting 
tool for quantifying and analyzing greenhouse gas emissions, 
created by a partnership between the World Resources Institute and the World Business c ouncil for Sustainable Development.
Direct energy consumption by primary 
energy sour ce (Gas) (Million T herms )ANNU AL W ORLD WIDE ENER GY 
CONSUMPTION
 4.2 4.0 4.0
Indir ect energy consumption by primary 
energy sour ce (Electricity)( GWh) 296 3041 318
Renewable Energy (Electricity) (GWh)2  41 75 772012 2013 2014APPLIED MATERIALS c ITIzEnShIP REP oRT 2014
       E nVIRonMEnT  |  PAGE 8
How w e manage o ur environmental i mpact
Applied’s environmental responsibility 
is demonstrated by many aspects of our 
business: from Manufacturing and Supply 
chain, to Engineering and field Service to 
Environmental h ealth & Safety (E hS) and 
Sustainability—all play a role in helping to minimize our environmental impact.  
As a team and as individuals, some of the 
ways we reduce our environmental foot -
print include: collaborating with suppliers 
and customers to use sustainable product 
materials, implementing recycling programs, designing energy efficient products and 
abating process air emissions from our labs.
Applied’s Supply c hain organization works 
with suppliers to support E hS practices and 
initiatives that can benefit both the environ -
ment and our respective businesses. Efforts 
are monitored through training, auditing 
and reporting.  
The company utilizes its Environmental 
Management System (EMS) to deliver consistent environmental performance; 
our EMS is modeled after the international 
standard IS o 14001. Third party certifica -
tion of Applied’s EMS began in 2004 and continues today with the addition of new manufacturing locations, as appropriate. 
The company also uses software called the 
Energy and Sustainability System (ESS) to 
accurately capture and track the company’s 
environmental impact. The ESS allows the company to collect, analyze, interpret, act 
on and report power and water consump -
tion, waste generation, business travel 
data and greenhouse gas (G hG) emissions 
(Scope 1 and 2 under the “Greenhouse Gas Protocol”*), with consistent units and  
correlation to global reporting standards. 
The data that are tracked and consolidated relies mostly on information provided on a 
calendar year basis from utilities and other 
third parties. 
EnERG y
The following Annual Worldwide Energy 
consumption table shows direct and  
indirect worldwide energy consumption at Applied’s facilities for the last three years, including the amount of energy obtained 
from renewable sources.
1  Excluding 650,000 square feet of leased office facilities for comparison to prior years, 2013 electricity 
consumption was 289 GWh, representing a 2% decrease from 2012.
2  Renewable energy consists of a combination of on-site generation and green power purchases.Worldwide total water usage (CCF)1ANNU AL W ORLD WIDE WATER USA GE 
 5 38,682    538,8 942 5 66,8042012 2013 2014
      E nVIRonMEnT  |  PAGE 9 APPLIED MATERIALS c ITIzEnShIP REP oRT 2014
WATER
The company regularly analyzes its water 
usage patterns to determine how to use this 
natural resource more efficiently. In 2014, 
average water usage increased slightly, which is attributable to increased lab R&D 
and manufacturing operations.
The table below shows water usage for the 
last three years ( ccf =100 cubic feet).
Research and Development water usage levels fluctuate with business activity and 
product life cycle development. In 2014, the Austin, Texas campus Industrial Waste 
neutralization (IW n) water recycling pro -
gram was commissioned and is anticipated 
to be completed by June 2015. This effort 
reclaims IW n wastewater so that it can be 
used as make-up water for cooling towers 
at the Austin manufacturing facility.(EnERG y con TInUED )
Applied’s sustainability strategy for  
energy usage is focused on two areas: 
maximizing the efficient use of the energy 
required for our business; and producing and procuring renewable energy that is 
generated at Applied facilities or purchased 
from local utilities.
In 2014, the company’s on-site renewable 
energy generation increased 18.4 percent, mainly from electricity generated by our 
Gloucester, Massachusetts wind turbine, 
which was installed in 2012. Additionally, nearly 3.5 GWh of energy was generated 
from our solar photovoltaic panels installed 
at company sites in the U.S., Singapore  
and c hina. 
1 Amounts for owned facilities include domestic, landscaping and process (if any) usage. Amounts for leased facilities 
include domestic and process (if any) usage, while leased office-only facilities include domestic usage only. 
2 Excluding 650,000 square feet of leased office facilities for comparison to prior years, 2013 worldwide water usage 
was 524,017 ccf , representing a 3% decrease from 2012.ANNU AL W ORLD WIDE 
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION S 2012 2013 2014
Total dir ect and indir ect greenhouse gas 
emissions by w eight (M TCe) (Scope 1 + 2) 186, 303 193, 2751 187,266
Other r elevant indir ect gr eenhouse gas emissions  
by weight (M TCe) (Scope 3 air travel) 35,069 18,690 20,275
APPLIED MATERIALS c ITIzEnShIP REP oRT 2014
       E nVIRonMEnT  |  PAGE 10
GREEnho USE  GAS  EMISSI onS 
Applied’s greenhouse gas (G hG) emissions 
are a result of energy usage and equipment 
processes. In 2014, our electricity usage 
increased and natural gas usage was  unchanged from 2013. The company’s total 
GhG emissions were reduced by approxi -
mately three percent due to a decrease in 
the equipment process emissions. Scope 3 
emissions air travel increased approximately 
10 percent due to international travel in support of business initiatives.
The table below shows Applied’s world -
wide direct and indirect Gh G emissions for 
the last three years (MT ce=metric tons of 
carbon equivalent).In 2014, a number of energy conservation 
projects were completed to reduce Gh G. 
Programs included replacing inefficient  
exterior lighting with LED lighting at  
Applied’s Santa c lara Bowers and Scott 
campuses, and reducing power require-ments by half through optimized computer air conditioning at the Singapore Data  
center. The G hG reduction from these 
projects as measured by our ESS is esti -
mated to be greater than 430 metric tons 
of co2e.
Additionally, examples of the many  
ongoing programs to help reduce green -
house gas emissions include: carpool/  
ride-matching service for c alifornia,  Texas and Massachusetts employees; 
public and alternative transportation  
incentives for c alifornia employees;  
electrical vehicle charging stations at our Santa c lara and Sunnyvale c ampuses;  
and preferred parking for carpool and  
hybrid vehicles. The company also  
sponsors Solar Education Workshops for 
U.S. employees to learn about discount 
incentives for installing solar energy power in their homes.
Applied also offers its Work- from- home 
(AppliedAnywhere) program with 343 
participants worldwide. The company also 
has 14 virtual meeting telepresence rooms, enabling employees in multiple locations to 
meet via telepresence.
1  Excluding 650,000 square feet of leased office facilities for comparison to prior years, 2013 Scope 1 and Scope 2 GhG 
was 181,591 MT ce, representing a 2.5% decrease from 2012.ANNU AL W ORLD WIDE WA STE, 
RECYCLING AND DIVERSION 2012 2013 2014
Total w eight of wa ste by type and disposal method  
(metric tons ): 
 2,201 610 458 Hazar dous w aste tr eated oﬀ -site
 1,352 3,351 4,320 Landﬁll (non-hazar dous )
 9,190 7,787 7,276 Recycled /composted/ diverte d
 87.1 66.31 60.1 Diversion rate (%)
      E nVIRonMEnT  |  PAGE 11 APPLIED MATERIALS c ITIzEnShIP REP oRT 2014
WASTE  AnD REcyc LInG
Applied’s sustainability team measures total solid waste, non-hazardous waste, recycled 
waste, hazardous waste and diversion (recycling) rates. In 2014, the amount of hazardous 
waste decreased by 25 percent and non-hazardous waste increased by 29 percent. The 
increase in non-hazardous waste can be partially attributed to increased business activity.  
There are recycling programs throughout Applied’s offices, campuses and manufacturing 
facilities. A partial list of the company’s efforts to recycle solid materials includes office 
items such as paper, cardboard, computers and monitors, batteries and toner cartridges; cafeteria items such as food, cooking grease, beverage cans and bottles; and building 
materials such as construction and demolition debris, fluorescent light bulbs, sheet metal 
and electrical wiring. Additionally, the company creates and utilizes reusable packaging materials where possible, such as specially-designed packages to protect machine 
components during transit.1  Excluding 650,000 square feet of leased office facilities for comparison to prior years, the diversion rate was 70.2%,  
representing a 19% decrease from the 2012 rate.Applied c onsistently Recognized for 
environmental Stewardship
For the past six years, Applied m aterials has been 
honored by government agencies, environmental  
organizations and national publications as a  
corporate and industry leader in sustainability.  
The company is committed to adopting and main -
taining best practices to preserve all aspects of 
our environment and reduce our carbon footprint wherever possible.
Since 2009, the u .S. e nvironmental p rotection 
Agency’s ( epA) Green p ower p artnership has 
recognized the company for its dedication to green 
energy. i n 2014, Applied was ranked #82 in Green 
power p artnership’s Top 100 list of the largest 
green power users in the u .S. Applied has also been 
included on new Sweek m agazine’s “America’s 
Greenest c ompanies” list each year since it debuted 
in 2009. i n 2014, the company placed #17 on the 
magazine’s corporate environmental ranking of the 500 largest American companies. 
For its performance across environment, employee 
relations, human rights, philanthropy and other key indicators in 2014, Applied was recognized on  
corporate Responsibility m agazine’s annual “100 
best c orporate c itizens l ist.” 
other honors include the c alifornia l eague of  
conservation v oters’ 2010 “Green c hampion” 
Award. That same year Acterra recognized  
Applied with its b usiness e nvironmental Award.   co MMU nITy  |  PAGE 12
We are a company committed to making a positive social 
contribution in communities where our employees work and 
live. In 2014 we sharpened our strategic focus on key  
philanthropic efforts and expanded our employee engagement programs around the world. Building on a strong legacy of  
community involvement, Applied made charitable investments of time and money to help improve the way people live.
In fiscal year 2014, Applied and the Applied Materials 
foundation granted $9.3M to programs supporting primary 
and secondary education, civic development, environmental stewardship and the arts. We continue to prioritize the needs of neighborhoods near our facilities where our investments 
can enhance education for underserved students, provide 
basic services to those less fortunate, promote environmental 
awareness and contribute to a vibrant, innovative arts sector. COMMuNITy
      co MMU nITy  |  PAGE 13 APPLIED MATERIALS c ITIzEnShIP REP oRT 2014
enhancing Student Achievement
Students can benefit from strong teachers and mentors, creative hands-on experiences and 
opportunities to broaden their thinking in order to succeed. Approximately 35 percent of 
charitable funding from Applied Materials and the Applied Materials f oundation are directed 
toward supporting educational initiatives. 
Some of the 2014 grantees included: 
•	New T eacher Center: Induction support for new teachers in San Jose, california;  
Austin, T exas; Portland, oregon; and Kalispell, Montana.
•	China Population Welfare Foundation: Reading rooms in rural elementary schools in 
Shaanxi Province, china. 
•	North East Community Development Council :  hands-on science workshops and  
environmental experiments in Singapore.
•	Arkadas: Mentoring immigrant children by high school students in Alzenau, Germany.
•	NPO Solar bear: Solar energy training and hands-on experiments for primary school 
students in f ukushima, Japan. 
•	breakthrough: Academic and college readiness program for underserved youth in grades 6–12 in San Jose, california and Austin, T exas.
•	Weizmann Institute of Science: Mobile science bus that encourages students’ interest 
in science in Rehovot, Israel.      co MMU nITy  |  PAGE 14 APPLIED MATERIALS c ITIzEnShIP REP oRT 2014
cultivating e nvironmental Awareness
Through grants and employee volunteerism, Applied works to increase awareness of  
environmental issues and to positively impact local communities.
2014 highlights included:
•	Ocean Alliance: Robotics lab to engage and educate cape Ann area students in ocean 
pollution, whale studies and ocean habitat sustainability in Gloucester, Massachusetts.
•	Jane Goodall Institute: y outh for Environmental Sustainability Program in 50 schools  
in five cities in china; “Roots & Shoots” public awareness and education program  
in T aiwan. 
•	Korea Federation for Environmental Movements (KFEM): Volunteers supported the planting of 12,000 trees to protect the environment; Applied received the “Environment Stewardship Award” from KfEM for this initiative.
•	Fujisan Club: Employee volunteer activity to remove 500 pounds of debris from  
Mt. f uji, Japan.
•	Collaborative on Clean Energy for the underserved with Santa Clara university:  
Accelerated the provision of clean energy to 1.3 billion people living off the grid worldwide, with emphasis on India.
•	Scuola Primaria 1 Maggio: Environmental education and tree planting for students  
assisted by Applied volunteers in T reviso, Italy.      co MMU nITy  |  PAGE 15 APPLIED MATERIALS c ITIzEnShIP REP oRT 2014
Alleviating Hunger
Applied and its employees work to provide nourishment for vulnerable populations by 
participating in food drives and other events to help those less fortunate.
Some 2014 activities included:
•	North America Food Drive: Donations from employees that were matched by the  
Applied Materials f oundation resulted in $1.5M raised for 47 food banks across the U.S.
•	Passover Food Drive: 500 employees packed 4,000 boxes of food distributed to  
benefit 20,000 individuals in Rehovot, Israel.
•	SOS Children’s v illages in India: food drive activities generated $18,000 in employee 
gifts and matching funds in India.  
•	Applied Materials Silicon v alley Turkey Trot: In its 10th year, the Thanksgiving Day 
tradition attracted 26,500 registrants and raised $950,000, benefiting five nonprofits, 
including two food banks in the Silicon Valley.
•	Huashan Social Welfare Foundation: home care and meal delivery for 500 senior  
citizens in T ainan, T aiwan.       co MMU nITy  |  PAGE 16 APPLIED MATERIALS c ITIzEnShIP REP oRT 2014
Raising the c urtain on Arts
The arts add vibrancy to communities, enrich lives and provide opportunities for people 
to come together in shared experiences that can transcend boundaries to foster under -
standing. Applied and the Applied Materials f oundation help make art more accessible to 
communities around the world. 
A partial list of 2014 programs included:
•	Chu-Chian Culture and Education Foundation: 13 seminars on opera and art history  
attracted 7,000 community members to the annual Applied Materials T aiwan Art f estival.
•	Gloucester Stage Company: offered subsidized tickets to encourage community  
members to enjoy live theatre in Massachusetts.
•	Glacier Symphony and Chorale: Supported public festival and events that bring music  
to Kalispell, Montana region.
•	Cinequest: Expanded the number of foreign films and regions represented in the 25th 
year of its film festival in San Jose, california.
•	Contemporary Austin Museum: Brought families together for affordable, accessible 
and engaging art-making activities inspired by art on view. WO RLD WIDE C OMMUNITY INVES TMENTS 2012 2013 2014
Total community inv estments by Applied 
and its Applied Materials F oundation ($M) 
(excludes administr ative costs and in-kind 
donations ) 110.7 10.4 9.3
Total Giving thr ough the F oundation Match 
Program ( employee gifts plus match in $M) 1  4 3.7 3.5
Total V olunteer T ime Gr ant hours logged  9,015 15,442 16,917
Total c ontributions issued by Applied Materials 
Foundation based on T ime Gr ant hour s $38,500 $44,5502 $46,600
      co MMU nITy  |  PAGE 17 APPLIED MATERIALS c ITIzEnShIP REP oRT 2014
Responding to d isaster
Applied and the Applied Materials f oundation respond when disasters strike areas where 
the company operates or employees live.
In 2014, the following relief and recovery efforts were supported:
•	Red cross operations in the Philippines, china and T aiwan in the aftermath of T yphoon haiyan.  
•	Red cross Society of the Republic of china activities after a series of gas explosions in 
downtown Kaohsiung c ity, T aiwan. 
•	china y outh Development f oundation efforts to build e-libraries in three schools damaged  
by an earthquake in the y unnan area in china. 
•	Japanese Red cross support following torrential rainstorms and mudslides caused by 
T yphoon neoguri.
1   Data is for fiscal year 
2  Reflects results of expanded volunteer program initiated in April 2013 that encouraged employees to log volunteer 
hours on an ongoing basis and increased matching grants from maximum of $250/year to $400/year per employee.employee m atching  
programs Go Global
For more than 15 years, employees in the u .S. have 
had the opportunity to make personal financial 
donations to charity and request a match for  
eligible contributions from the Applied m aterials 
Foundation. i n 2014, $3.5 m was distributed to 
community organizations and k –12 schools through 
this program, enabling employees to secure  
Foundation funds for causes of personal interest.  
in 2014 Applied expanded its e mployee Giving and 
matching p rograms to provide employees world -
wide with the opportunity to make a monetary 
donation to an eligible charity and request a 1:1 match from the Applied m aterials Foundation up to 
the equivalent of u S$2,000 per employee, per year. 
This program allows employees to increase their impact in the community and leverage Foundation resources for the benefit of non-governmental  
organizations that are focused on improving the way people live.   
employees can also take advantage of v olunteer 
Time Grants that recognize individuals who donate 
their personal time as a volunteer to eligible organi -
zations. e ach 10 hours volunteered by an employee 
and recorded via an online tool during a quarter results in a “gift card” equivalent to u S$100, which 
the employee can award to a charity. 
The m atching Gift and v olunteer Time Grant 
programs rolled out to non- u.S. regions in  
october, 2014 and underscore Applied’s  
dedication to making a positive social contribution 
wherever our employees work and live.     WoRKPLA cE  |  PAGE 18
Working in a safe and ethical workplace and building knowledge 
for personal and career development are central to Applied’s 
culture and values. At the end of fiscal 2014, Applied’s global 
workforce included approximately 14,000 regular employees 
(not including temporary employees or interns), spanning 81 
locations in 18 countries. WORKPlACE
WO RKPLA CE TRAINING AND DEVEL OPMENT 2012 2013 2014
Average hours of tr aining per ye ar per 
person by category —regular full-time 
employe es (RFT) and total (RFT , temps, 
contractors, interns ) 41 RFT 44 RFT 41.5 RFT
 28 T otal 32 Total 28.5 Total
Percentage of empl oyees receiving 
regular performance and career 
development reviews1 95 98 98APPLIED MATERIALS c ITIzEnShIP REP oRT 2014
       W oRKPLA cE  |  PAGE 19
Training and d evelopment 
As part of its learning and development efforts, Applied Global University (AGU) introduced new strategic educational programs in 
2014 to help employees strengthen competencies in three key areas:*  
•	Product Development Engine (PDE) Academy: This training focuses on a  disciplined methodology for product  
development to drive common Best 
Known Methods (BKMs) across the company. In 2014, more than 4,000 
employees completed the introductory 
web-based class and over 2,400 engineer -
ing, marketing and leadership employees 
finished the advanced in-class training. 
•	Customer Engagement Engine ( CEE): 
The goal of this program is to strengthen our customer-facing organization, further 
bringing the “the voice of the customer” into Applied to contribute to product 
roadmaps and help solve customers’  
high value problems. In 2014, the rigorous, three-day workshop was attended by more 
than 520 sales and business development 
employees, who also became certified in the Applied Sales Process.
•	Executive l eadership Series (ElS):   
Designed to enhance Applied leadership skills across the different business and functional organizations, the six-module program spans 12 days and is customized for its participants by Applied executive 
leaders and company subject matter 
experts. In 2014, 145 of the company’s executives began the ELS series and the 
rest are expected to complete the program 
in 2015. 
 
In 2014, the company transitioned its  
performance management, rewards and 
other talent processes to a single  
enterprise-level system called Workday.  Employees are able to manage and track their performance and development  activities, and share work experience, skills and career interests on a single webpage 
location. This “professional profile” in 
Workday enhances employees’ visibility for consideration of internal job opportunities 
and also helps Applied’s human resources 
team understand, develop and move talent to critical areas of business. f or managers, 
Workday provides a more streamlined way to manage their teams.
The table below reflects key data for the 
past three years about the company’s work -
force training and development.
*Attendee numbers are for fiscal year1  Every employee is encouraged annually to complete an online performance appraisal that becomes part of their permanent 
record and can serve as a basis for career development planning. While nearly all eligible employees receive performance 
ratings from their manager, not all employees complete the appraisal. In addition, employees are encouraged annually to complete an Individual Development Plan that includes skills assessment and a development roadmap. In 2014, 76 percent of employees had a development plan in place.SAFETY PERFORMANCE1 2012 2013 2014
North America
Total case incidence rate (T CIR)  0 .80 0.71 0.70
 
Number of w ork-related f atalities  0 0 0
 Percentage of empl oyees receiving Injuries 
or illnesses r esulting in days aw ay from 
work, restricted work activit y, or job 
transfer for every 100 employees (Days  
Away & Restricted T ime or DA RT) 0.43 0.47  0.38
Worldwide
Total case incidence rate (T CIR)  0.52 0.49  0.46
Number of w ork-related f atalities  0 0 0
 
Number of oﬃce ergonomic evaluations 
performe d 9 21 934 1,079
 Injuries or illnesses r esulting in days aw ay 
from w ork, restricted w ork activit y, or job 
transfer for every 100 employees (D ART) 0.31 0.33 0.26APPLIED MATERIALS c ITIzEnShIP REP oRT 2014
       W oRKPLA cE  |  PAGE 20
Safety at Applied
Providing a safe workplace for employees, 
customers and business partners is  
integral to Applied’s values. o ur ongoing 
efforts include an Environmental, h ealth 
and Safety (E hS) Management System,  
safety self-inspections, safety walk -
throughs, safety review board meetings and committees, training, new chemical 
approvals and many other ongoing  
programs throughout the company 
worldwide. 
As a result of these programs and  
management’s focus on this important 
area, Applied’s safety metrics improved 
from 2013 to 2014. Additionally, the  
company had no environmental, safety  
or regulatory notices of violations or  
fines in fy 2014.
The tables on this page reflect safety  
performance metrics for the past  
three years. 
1 Data is for fiscal year 2014.HUMAN RIGHT S INDIC ATOR 2012 2013 2014
Number and perc entage of oper ations that 
have been subject to human rights reviews 
or impact assessments, by country 0 0 0
      W oRKPLA cE  |  PAGE 21 APPLIED MATERIALS c ITIzEnShIP REP oRT 2014
ethics: e veryone, e very d ay
Ethics are an integral part of Applied culture,  
from the company’s employees to relation -
ships with customers, suppliers and others 
we do business with—we depend on this earned trust as a natural extension of  
Applied’s core values. 
In 2014, Applied Materials expanded its 
ethics program to the o ffice of Ethics and 
compliance. This organization oversees the 
Standards of Business c onduct, ethics  
training and awareness messaging, third 
party due diligence, various communication  
channels used by employees to raise  
concerns and internal investigations.
To reinforce the importance of ethical  
behavior in the workplace, Applied length -
ened its annual Ethics Day program to a full 
week in 2014, with events and communica -
tions focused on conducting business with integrity and honesty, and speaking up with concerns about upholding our values.In 2014, Applied was named a World’s Most Ethical company® for the third consecutive 
year by the Ethisphere Institute, an inde-pendent center of research promoting best  
practices in corporate ethics and governance.
Human Rights 
Applied Materials is committed to h uman 
Rights. We consistently strive to operate in 
an ethical and responsible manner, both with 
our workforce and through our supply chain. our Standards of Business c onduct include 
several important provisions about human rights, including prohibitions on the use of child labor or forced, bonded or indentured 
labor in our operations; and harsh or inhu -
mane treatment, including corporal punish -
ment or the threat of corporal punishment. In 2013, Applied reinforced and clarified its 
prohibition on child labor in all countries in which it operates by implementing a Global 
Policy for c hild Labor Avoidance.  new o n-Site w ellness c enters  
offer Host of Services
Applied is committed to supporting the overall 
health and well-being of its employees and their families. i n its continuing effort to foster a culture  
of wellness and encourage employees to embrace better health, the company offers wellness  
centers in Santa c lara, c alifornia; Austin, Texas;  
and Gloucester, m assachusetts.
Since opening in 2013, there have been a total of more than 17,000 visits by almost 4,000  
employees, with a satisfaction rate of 97 percent. 
These wellness centers focus on overall health  
from a holistic perspective—physical, emotional, 
financial and social. A wide range of integrated services and resources are offered and many  are covered by some of Applied’s medical  
insurance plans. The Santa c lara center also 
includes a fitness facility with personal training and group exercise classes.
For employees not located near wellness centers, 
remote services are offered, including health and behavioral coaching, messaging with the  
employee’s care team and online goal-tracking tools.POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS 2012 2013 20143
Total v alue of ﬁnancial and in-kind contributions 
to political par ties, politicians, and r elated 
institutions by Applied Materials, Inc.1 $274,9002 $12,500 $6,500
Total v alue of ﬁnancial and in-kind contributions 
to political par ties, politicians, and r elated 
institutions by AMP AC1 $89,000 $56, 000 $68, 000APPLIED MATERIALS c ITIzEnShIP REP oRT 2014
       W oRKPLA cE  |  PAGE 22
public p olicy   
As a corporate citizen, Applied Interacts 
with government and elected officials and 
candidates and provides information about 
the company, its businesses and stakeholders, as well as the industries in which we operate 
through the activities of our Government 
Affairs group. This includes efforts to shape public policy on certain issues that affect the 
company’s business. In 2014, these issues 
included budget and appropriations, energy, immigration, intellectual property, natural  
resources, regulatory, taxation and trade. The company’s lobbying activities are dis -
closed in periodic reports filed with the U.S.  
Senate and U.S. h ouse of Representatives 
or the appropriate state agency (such as the california Secretary of State or n ew y ork State 
Joint c ommittee on Ethics), as applicable.  
consistent with U. S. campaign finance law, 
the Applied Materials, Inc. Political Action committee (AMPA c) may make campaign 
contributions to candidates for state or 
U.S. federal office, other political action 
committees and political party commit -
tees where permitted. AMPA c is funded 
through voluntary contributions from the company’s eligible employees, directors, and shareholders. Through its state contri -
butions committee (comprised of the same persons who serve on the AMPA c board), 
the company occasionally makes financial 
and in-kind political contributions within the 
United States as permitted by applicable laws, such as contributions to candidates for 
california statewide offices and state legis -
latures. These contributions may be made 
for appropriate corporate purposes only.  
neither Applied nor AMPA c makes contri -
butions to so-called “super PA cs” or any in -
dependent expenditures in support of or in 
opposition to campaigns, nor do they make political contributions outside the U.S.  
contributions are reported as required in 
filings with the U.S. f ederal Elections c om-
mission or the appropriate state agency (such as the c alifornia Secretary of State), as 
applicable. In addition to these governance policies and other company controls, all per -
sons acting on Applied’s behalf must comply 
with our Standards of Business c onduct.  
Additionally, Applied belongs to various trade associations and similar organizations 
representing the range of issues that the 
company cares about and believes will  benefit the company’s business activities.   
More detailed information regarding polit -
ical contributions or membership fees from 
Applied and/or its AMPA c can be found as 
part of the 2014 Political Disclosure Report .
 1 All contributions are made in the U.S. only.
2 Includes contributions to Democratic and Republican governors’ associations. 
3 Detailed 2014 contributions by Applied and its AMPA c can be found as part of the 2014 Political Disclosure Report.APPLIED MATERIALS c ITIzEnShIP REP oRT 2014
       APPE nDIX  |  PAGE 23
Appendix
RESoURcES AnD REfEREncES
Additional information regarding Applied Materials’ business and corporate 
citizenship activities is available on our website at the following links:
 »2014 Annual Report with 10-k
 »Awards and Recognition 
 »carbon disclosure p roject  (Annual Water Use and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reports)
 »conflict minerals p olicy and Reporting 
 »corporate Governance
 »corporate Responsibility 
 »community
 »Sustainability
 »workplace
 »corporate Responsibility Reports
 »environmental, Health and Safety p olicy
 »Global c lean p ower Generation    
 »How w e do it  (A primer regarding our business, products, and industries we serve)
 »iSo certifications 
 »political disclosure Report
 »press Releases
 »organizational p rofile 
 »T ransparency in Supply chains Act
       APPE nDIX  |  PAGE 24 APPLIED MATERIALS c ITIzEnShIP REP oRT 2014
contact u s
If you would like more information about Applied Materials, visit our 
website at www.appliedmaterials.com. If you have specific questions 
or comments on the content of this report, contact our sustainability 
reporting team at: corporate_responsibility@amat.com .
legal disclosure
Safe h arbor Statement. This report contains forward-looking statements, 
including those regarding Applied’s performance, operations, strategies 
and goals, and other statements that are not historical facts. These state-
ments are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements, 
and are not guarantees of future performance. Information concerning 
these risks and uncertainties is contained in Applied’s most recent reports filed with the Securities and Exchange c ommission. All forward-looking 
statements are based on management’s estimates, projections and  
assumptions as of June 1, 2015, and Applied undertakes no obligation to update them.
© 2015 Applied Materials, Inc. Applied Materials and the Applied Materials logo are trademarks of  
Applied Materials, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. Third party trademarks  
mentioned are the property of their respective owners.