APPLIED MATERIALS CITIZENSHIP REPORT2016 2 APPLIED MATERIALS CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2016
At Applied Materials, our innovations make possible the technology shaping the future. 
We have played a key role in the evolution of the electronics industry over the past 
50 years and looking ahead, our role will become even more critical to enabling new 
semiconductor, display and other exciting technologies. Our expertise in materials engineering is at the foundation of the incredible advances transforming the world around 
us – from communications and entertainment to healthcare and transportation.
Our belief in the concept of “make possible” extends beyond the realm of technology. 
Engrained in our culture is the core value of Responsibility and Integrity, which includes 
a commitment to making positive contributions to the communities where we live and 
to the world around us. In fiscal 2016, we grew orders, revenue and earnings to the highest levels in the Company’s history. Amid this fast growth, we were able to keep 
direct energy use, water consumption and greenhouse gas emissions flat while making 
progress on other citizenship measures. Among our most notable achievements were a record-breaking Food Drive that raised over $2 million for food banks across the U.S., and 
an improved recycling program, which resulted in a more than 1,000 percent increase in 
waste diversion at our Santa Clara, California campus. These are but a few of the many accomplishments included in this Citizenship Report.  
Applied Materials’ innovation leadership, together with our commitment to making the 
world a better place, will help our company and communities thrive and grow sustainably over the long term.
Gary Dickerson  3 APPLIED MATERIALS CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2016
2016 APPLIED MATERIALS CITIZENSHIP REPORT
      About This Report
 First issued in 2007, the Applied Materials Citizenship 
Report is the annual sustainability report of Applied Materials, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as “Applied” or “the Company”). The 2016 report falls within the general guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative™ (GRI) Reporting Framework (Version 4.0) and includes information about the Company’s economic, environmental and social performance, including resource metrics, community investments, workplace and political activities. It reflects the global operations of Applied for calendar year 2016, except where indicated that data is for Applied’s fiscal year, which ends on the last Sunday in October. Applied’s global operational footprint fluctuates with business acquisitions and divestitures, as well as the expansion, consolidation and relocation of its overall op-erations. These changes are, in part, a result of the nature of the primary industries the Company serves. Information related to acquired businesses and operations are included from the date of acquisition.
  A list of additional resources relating to Applied’s business and sustainability performance is located in the appendix of this report.SUSTAINABILITY
 7 Managing Environmental Impact
 8 Energy
 9 Water
 9 Greenhouse Gas Emissions
11 Waste and RecyclingCOMMUNITY
13 Community Investments
14 Going Green and Sustainable
15 Increasing Access and Understanding
16 Empowering Neighbors in Need
17 Educating Beyond STEMWORKPLACE
19 Safety
20 T raining and Development
20 Diversity and Inclusion
22 Ethics
23 Human Rights
23 Public Policy
APPENDIX
25 Resources and References4 APPLIED MATERIALS CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2016
Applied Materials is the leader in materials engineering solutions used to produce 
virtually every new chip and advanced display in the world. Our expertise in modifying 
materials at atomic levels and on an industrial scale enables customers to transform 
possibilities into reality. At Applied Materials, our innovations make possible the technology shaping the future.
In fiscal year 2016, we grew orders, revenue and earnings to the highest levels in the 
Company’s history, and made significant progress towards our longer-term strategic, financial and sustainability goals. For fiscal year ended October 30, 2016FY2016 COMPANY OVERVIEW
$10.8 billion revenue >10,200 patents
AMAT stock listing 
on NASDAQHeadquartered in  
California’s Silicon Valley>15,600 employees  
82 locations in  
17 countries
$1.5 billion R&D  
investment5 APPLIED MATERIALS CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2016
At Applied Materials we believe that innovation is the key to making advanced technologies 
more affordable and accessible to consumers and businesses around the world.  
From the health and well-being of our employees and their communities, to our sustainable 
business practices and corporate governance, we are focused on building a better future.
The Company demonstrates this commitment through our corporate citizenship programs 
and investments that span three key areas: Sustainability, Community and the Workplace.
SUSTAINABILITY  
PRACTICES
Applied is committed to 
conducting our business in an 
environmentally and socially 
responsible way, and we take strong action to protect the health 
and safety of workers, customers 
and neighboring communities. COMMUNITY  
INVESTMENTS
Applied makes strategic investments around the world 
in education, civic engagement, 
the arts and the environment to improve the communities where 
we work and live.WORKPLACE  
CULTURE
Applied is dedicated to attracting, 
developing and retaining a global 
workforce and respecting the local 
culture of the regions where we do business.6 APPLIED MATERIALS CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2016
Applied Materials is committed to driving energy efficiency and minimizing potential 
environmental impacts. In 2016, the Company maintained sound sustainability practices 
to enhance and enrich the communities where we have a presence, and ensure a 
safe, thriving workplace for employees. Applied has five principles guiding its vision for sustainability: improve energy efficiency; design for the environment; promote 
environmental awareness among employees and the public; minimize pollution wherever 
possible; and conserve resources. Applied demonstrates these principles through the way we conduct our daily business. Our dedication to sustainability is reinforced through our 
ongoing membership in the Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC). SUSTAINABILITY
IN THIS SECTION
 »Managing Environmental Impact
 »Energy
 »Water
 »Greenhouse Gas Emission
 »Waste and Recycling7 APPLIED MATERIALS CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2016
How We Manage Our Environmental Impact
Applied Materials’ sense of responsibility for the environment is evident in our Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) 
program, manufacturing practices, business operations, supply chain initiatives, and the way we interact within our 
communities. We collaborate with suppliers to encourage and support best EHS practices and initiatives to benefit 
both the environment and our respective businesses. Results are monitored through training and routine reporting.
The Company uses its Environmental Management System (EMS), which is modeled on the International Organization 
for Standardization (ISO) 14001 standard, to measure Applied’s environmental performance. Applied began utilizing 
an EMS in 2004, when our Austin, T exas manufacturing site received ISO 14001 certification. Since then, we have obtained ISO 14001 certification at our manufacturing sites in Singapore, Israel, Montana, T aiwan, Italy and California. 
In 2016, our Alzenau, Germany operation was the eighth global location to obtain ISO 14001 certification. Applied’s 
certification roadmap includes registration of two additional global manufacturing sites: Gloucester, Massachusetts 
and Heimstetten, Germany.
In conjunction with the EMS, Applied uses its Energy and Sustainability System (ESS) software to accurately capture 
and track the Company’s environmental impact. The ESS enables the Company to collect, analyze, interpret, report and act on-power and water consumption, waste generation, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1 and 2 under 
the “Greenhouse Gas Protocol”*) and business travel data (Scope 3*). The data that are tracked and consolidated 
originate primarily from information provided on a calendar-year basis by utilities and other third parties.
* The GHG Protocol is a widely-used international accounting tool for quantifying and analyzing greenhouse gas emissions. It was created by a partnership between 
the World Resources Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development.
Applied Materials ISO 14001 
Manufacturing Sites: 
 »Austin, T exas
 »Santa Clara, California  
(New Product Integration)
 »Singapore 
 »Rehovot, Israel 
 »Kalispell, Montana 
 »T ainan, T aiwan
 »T reviso, Italy 
 »Alzenau, Germany8 APPLIED MATERIALS CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2016ANNUAL WORLDWIDE ENERGY CONSUMPTION 2014 2015 2016
Direct energy consumption by primary energy source (Gas) (Million Therms) 4.0 3.8 3.8
Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source (Electricity) (GWh)1327 331 345
Renewable energy (Electricity) (GWh)1, 268 65 59
1 Renewable energy consists of a combination of on-site generation and green power purchases.
Energy
Applied Materials’ sustainable energy strategy focuses on two core areas: minimizing the energy required for our business, 
through energy management control systems, facility equipment energy efficiency improvements, lighting and other facilities 
infrastructure upgrades and using renewable energy for operational needs where feasible. Dedication to this strategy enabled 
Applied to keep its direct energy consumption flat year-over-year despite it also being a period of rapid growth for the Company.
As an integral part of our clean energy initiatives, Applied seeks to minimize our carbon footprint through on-site renewable 
energy production and/ or purchasing green energy from local utilities. Applied installed a total of 2,674 kilowatt peak (kWp) 
photovoltaic (PV) solar panels at four facilities and installed a 2,500 kWp wind turbine at our Gloucester, Massachusetts 
facility in 2012, which has generated 23.6 Gigawatt hours (GWh) of energy, to date. Applied sells the renewable energy 
certificates (RECs) associated with the wind turbine in support of the Massachusetts Department of Energy Resources 
(DOER) Renewable Energy Portfolio Standard. Due to a technical problem in September 2015, the wind turbine was shut 
down for repairs. Once repairs were completed, the turbine resumed operation in June 2016. The loss of functionality of the 
wind turbine decreased the amount of renewable energy that Applied was able to generate during 2016. 
Applied’s Santa Clara, California and Austin, T exas facilities support their energy needs by purchasing green energy (renew -
able energy from wind or solar sources) from local utility providers.Green energy purchases supported 100 percent of the power demand for our two Santa Clara campuses and approximately 
28 percent of Austin’s power needs in 2016. In addition, solar panel arrays at Applied’s facilities in Sunnyvale, California; 
Singapore; Xi’an, China; and Austin, T exas generated a total of 3.5 GWh of energy in 2016. 
The following table shows direct and indirect worldwide energy consumption at Applied’s facilities for the last three years, 
including the amount of energy obtained from renewable sources.Green energy purchases supported 100% of the 
power demand for our two Santa Clara campuses  
and approximately 28% of Austin’s power needs in 2016 . In addition, solar panel arrays at Applied’s 
facilities in Sunnyvale, California; Singapore; Xi’an, China; and Austin, Texas generated a total of  
3.5 GWh of energy in 2016 . 9 APPLIED MATERIALS CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2016ANNUAL WORLDWIDE WATER USAGE 2014 2015 2016
Worldwide total water usage (CCF)1566,8041522,802 528,120
1  Amounts for owned facilities include domestic, landscaping and process (if any) usage. Amounts for leased facilities include domestic and process (if any) usage, 
while leased office-only facilities include domestic usage only.
Water
In 2016, average water usage indicated a minimal increase of approximately one percent, primarily due to higher 
manufacturing demand that resulted in a record year of production. Notwithstanding the higher production, the 
Applied Austin Industrial Waste Neutralization (IWN) Program that was implemented in September 2015, led to 
a total of 6.3 million gallons of water being successfully recycled during 2016. Water usage totals fluctuate with 
business activity, research and development needs and product life cycle development.
The table below shows water usage for the last three years (CC F=100 cubic feet).
Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
Applied Materials’ greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are a result of energy usage and equipment process emissions. 
The Company has a long-standing commitment to support the reduction of our greenhouse gas emissions through 
policies and programs, product manufacturing processes and solutions offered to customers. 
In 2016, our GHG emissions remained relatively flat to the results reported in 2015. This can be attributed to changes 
in Scope 2 emission factors as Applied’s utility providers have improved their energy-generation portfolio to include cleaner energy sources. Scope 3 emissions (indirect releases) indicated a modest increase of approximately 2 percent 
year-over-year, attributed to business-related air travel.
Since 2015, Applied’s Santa Clara, California campus has worked diligently to 
enhance and improve its waste diversion (recycling) capabilities. A multi-phase program, this strategic initiative was designed to help Applied under -
stand its various waste streams, identify potential opportunities and vendors for recycling support, and implement segregation and waste management practice improvements across the site.
One factor driving the impetus to improve recycling was an overall increase 
in the amount of waste wood (in the form of wooden crate packaging) and metal being generated; process and operational changes had resulted in the Company generating these materials in higher volumes. As a result of our improved efforts , Applied recycled approximately 32 tons of recycled waste in 2016, compared to the three tons recycled in 2015. This was a 1,100 percent increase in waste diversion for the campus, and it greatly reduced the amount of waste the Company is sending to landfills.Applied Boosts Recycling Efforts in Big WayANNUAL WORLDWIDE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS12014 2015 2016
T otal direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (MTCe) (Scope 1+2)1163,703 170,613 170,634
Other relevant indirect greehouse gas emissions by weight (MTCe) (Scope 3 air travel) 20,724 11,390 11,643
1Indicates Applied’s worldwide direct and indirect GHG emissions for the last three years (MTCe=metric tons of carbon equivalent).
10 APPLIED MATERIALS CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2016
The table below shows Applied’s worldwide direct and indirect GHG emissions for the last three years.
Applied has a long history of supporting employee programs that help reduce greenhouse gas emissions, including 
carpool/ride-matching and vanpool service for California, T exas and Massachusetts employees; public and alternative 
transportation incentives for California employees; electrical vehicle charging stations at our Santa Clara, California cam-
puses and Austin, T exas site; and preferred parking for carpools, hybrid and electric vehicles in Santa Clara and Austin. 
Applied has partnered with Scoop to give riders door-to-door transportation to the Company for just $2. A mobile app 
for carpooling in the San Francisco Bay Area, Scoop users make new connections with co-workers and neighbors, save an 
average of $2,000 a year, and help the environment. 
In addition, Applied offers a Work-From-Home (AppliedAnywhere) program with 421 participants in 2016, and maintains 
18 telepresence rooms for virtual meetings. 
The Company also provides employee discounts for the purchase and installation of solar panels for their homes. Through 
the Employee Solar Program, eligible employees can receive a rebate of up to $1,500 through an approved vendor. This 
program is offered in addition to state and/ or local rebate programs in several areas in the U.S. where Applied operates.11 APPLIED MATERIALS CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2016ANNUAL WORLDWIDE WASTE, RECYCLING AND DIVERSION 2014 2015 2016
T otal weight of waste by type and disposal method (metric tons): 
 Hazardous waste treated off-site 458 223 319
 Landfill (non-hazardous) 4,320 3,136 2,187
 Recycled/ composted/ diverted 7, 276 7,906 8,795
 Diversion rate (%) 60.1 71.7 78.0
Waste and Recycling
In 2016, the amount of non-hazardous waste generated decreased by approximately 30 percent, while hazardous waste 
increased by approximately 45 percent. The decrease in non-hazardous waste is the result of implementing additional 
recycling programs that enabled improved diversion rates. Among the factors contributing to the increase in hazardous 
waste was higher production rates of manufacturing equipment and an increase in research and development activities. 
While periods of strong business demand can sometimes necessitate greater use of hazardous materials, Applied remains 
committed to responsibly monitoring all our waste streams and working to minimize the use of hazardous materials to the best of our ability.
Applied’s offices, campuses and manufacturing facilities globally implement recycling programs to decrease non-hazardous 
waste generation and increase waste diversion. The total amount of hazardous waste or nonhazardous waste generated 
depends on fluctuations and changes in business volumes, facility system or process improvements and the use of enhanced 
materials controls and management. 
Activities currently in place to minimize waste production include recycling of solid materials, cafeteria items and building 
materials, as well as creation of reusable packaging for shipping and other uses. 2016 WASTE REDUCTION
Landfill
30%
Recycled/composted/diverted
Diversion rate12%
78%12 APPLIED MATERIALS CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2016
Applied Materials strives to positively impact the regions where our employees work 
and live through philanthropic investments and community engagement programs. As 
an industrial leader, we understand we also have the responsibility to be a leader in our 
communities. Accordingly, we focus our charitable support on efforts to protect and preserve the environment, enrich the arts and cultural scene, provide necessities to our 
neighbors, and improve educational opportunities for underserved students.
Applied employees extend our outreach in local communities around the world as they 
volunteer, donate to charities and participate in corporate-initiated drives and events that 
link employees and their families with local nonprofits.IN THIS SECTION
 »Community Investments
 »Going Green and Sustainable 
 »Increasing Access and Understanding
 »Empowering Neighbors in Need 
 »Educating Beyond STEMCOMMUNITY 13 APPLIED MATERIALS CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2016COMMUNITY INVESTMENT 2014 2015 2016
T otal community investments by Applied and its Applied Materials Foundation ($ millions) 
(excludes administrative)1 9.3 9.5 9.1
T otal Giving through the Foundation Match  Program (employee gifts plus match in $ millions)
1 3.5 3.8 4.1
T otal Volunteer Time Grant hours logged 16, 917 14,325 13,501
T otal contributions issued by Applied Materials Foundation based on Time Grant hours 46,600 42,900 36,100
1 Data is for fiscal year.
Community Investments 
We demonstrate our core values of responsibility and integrity by making a positive contribution to the world through the 
Company’s legacy of community involvement and our ongoing commitment to engagement.
We are especially focused on issues of importance to the communities near Applied’s facilities. In 2016 the Company and 
the Applied Materials Foundation made strategic grants of $9.1 million to charities and nonprofit agencies in ten coun-
tries around the world.
In addition, Applied employees invest their time, energy and personal funds in organizations that help improve people’s lives. 
By taking advantage of Matching Gift and Volunteer Time Grant Programs, employees can leverage the time and money 
they commit to nonprofit agencies by requesting matching funds from the Applied Materials Foundation. In 2016, generous employees directed $4.1 million in donations and matching funds to charities and nonprofit agencies across the globe. Because our business is built on the power 
of ideas, Applied is committed to inspiring the next generation of innovators.14 APPLIED MATERIALS CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2016
Going Green and Sustainable 
Urban gardening projects, tree planting activities and events encouraging sustainable practices received Applied support 
in 2016. Encouraging people of all ages to take advantage of outdoor activity to benefit themselves and the community 
is a small but impactful step toward creating a more sustainable and environmentally-friendly future. Applied’s efforts to 
promote a “green lifestyle” spread throughout the U.S., Europe, the Middle East and Asia.
The Backyard Growers in Gloucester, Massachusetts expanded their school garden programs while Israel’s Moatza le 
Shimur Atarim organic vegetable garden at the Pardesanut Museum involved children working the soil to grow fresh 
produce. Veggielution in San Jose piloted a middle school program to introduce students to the impact of sustainable agriculture on their health and the environment. In Austin, the Sustainable Food Center incentivizes low-income families to 
participate in gardening and healthy cooking classes to promote long-term wellness. 
As part of Earthworks, an annual internal campaign at Applied Materials to raise awareness of environmental issues and 
action, employee volunteers and their families worked on conservation activities on Mt. Fuji in Japan, helped create a forest 
in the T ancheon Wetland in Korea, and replanted pine trees in fire-ravaged Bastrop State Park with the Nobelity Project in 
Austin, T exas. 
Getting out of cars and onto the streets, employees in Alzenau, Germany and Silicon Valley, California participated in Bike 
to Work Days to spare the air and get some exercise. In Israel, employees and family members joined Etgarim’s bike ride to 
support the organization’s goal of engaging people of all abilities in outdoor sporting activities.
15 APPLIED MATERIALS CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2016
In Taiwan, more than 8,000 community 
members attended the 15th annual Applied Materials Arts Festival featuring an array of musical performances and arts and cultural heritage lectures.Applied Materials T aiwan 15th Annual  
Arts Festival
Increasing Access and Understanding
The arts bring people of diverse backgrounds together in shared experiences that cross boundaries, broaden perspec-
tives and fuel innovation. Applied Materials and its Foundation are proud to support a portfolio of cultural institutions and 
events that help make our shared communities places people want to live, work, play and participate in the arts. 
In 2016, the Applied Materials Foundation helped launch new and unique arts programming. We served as presenting 
sponsor of the inaugural Cape Ann Plein Air event in Gloucester, Massachusetts, attracting 170 artists to the picturesque 
seaport for a week of creativity and competition. In San Jose, California, Applied helped ensure that a set of oversized 
Musical Swings, which produce musical notes based on the participants’ interactions, was installed in a public park in the 
city’s center for use by visitors of all ages. The San Jose Museum of Art, supported by the Applied Materials Foundation, 
secured the prestigious Cooper-Hewitt Design T riennial exhibition, Beauty, for its first and only West Coast viewing. 
By supporting arts education and public access programming, Applied helps shape the audience of the future. In T aiwan, 
more than 8,000 community members attended the 15th annual Applied Materials Arts Festival featuring an array of 
musical performances and arts and cultural heritage lectures. The Ziker Theatre in Austin benefitted from Applied under -
writing admission to a summer production of Shrek for families, while Flathead Valley residents in Montana took advan-tage of free Glacier Symphony and Chorale concerts.16 APPLIED MATERIALS CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2016
Empowering Neighbors in Need
As an engaged corporate citizen, Applied Materials works to improve the lives of our most vulnerable community mem-
bers. Funding or managing specific programs to feed the hungry, provide safe housing and respond to natural disasters 
were included in our 2016 activities.
Applied employees in the U.S., India, Japan, Singapore and T aiwan are working to alleviate hunger in regions near our 
facilities. Through employee personal donations, which are matched by the Foundation, as well as programs to pack and 
distribute food items, Applied helps feed needy neighbors in our local communities.
In 2016, more than $500,000 was committed to increasing access to nutritional food for hungry families, seniors, and 
individuals. In its 12th year, in 2016, the Applied Materials Silicon Valley T urkey T rot attracted 26,000 walkers and runners, 
including 480 Applied Materials employees, who navigated 5K and 10K courses to raise over $900,000 for Silicon Valley 
safety net organizations. 
T o ensure safe, appropriate housing for those in need, Applied has supported organizations including Ireland’s Dublin 
Simon Center, the Housing T rust of Santa Clara County, and the House of Refuge in Mesa, Arizona. Employee volunteers 
have also collaborated with Habitat for Humanity in Austin, T exas and in the Flathead Valley of Montana to construct new housing units for families. 
Near Bangalore India, Applied sponsors a United Way Model Village that improves the livelihood of Kolar District residents 
through a multi-pronged approach that includes access to potable water, holistic education for youth, and training and 
seed funding for women interested in increasing their income through entrepreneurship.
In Singapore, the Company’s work with the Community Development Council (NECDC), resulted in Applied receiving the 
prestigious People’s Association Community Spirit (PACS) Excellence Award 2016. This annual award recognizes exem-
plary organizations that have demonstrated remarkable service in building social capital and contributing to the commu-
nity by supporting the People’s Association and its partner organizations.
Responding to humanitarian crisis in the aftermath of disasters in regions near Applied facilities remains an important 
component of our commitment to social responsibility. In 2016, the Applied Materials Foundation awarded grants to 
Habitat for Humanity to support its relief efforts following flooding in Chennai, India and to the Red Cross Society to assist 
with earthquake recovery in area surrounding T ainan, T aiwan.17 APPLIED MATERIALS CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2016
Educating Beyond STEM
As a company built on innovation, Applied Materials understands the importance of increasing the number of young 
people interested in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM). While supporting STEM programs, we also recog-
nize the role of a strong academic foundation in preparing the technological leaders of tomorrow.
Because reading on grade level is a critical indicator of future academic success, Applied invests in programs focused on 
increasing early literacy and access to books. This year, we funded the China Population Welfare Foundation’s reading 
rooms for elementary students in Shaanxi Provence, BookSpring in Austin, and the Start Making a Reader T oday (SMART) 
program in Hillsboro, Oregon. Other literacy and library programs are supported in T ainan, T aiwan; Kalispell, Montana; San 
Jose, California; and Israel.
With the goal of ensuring educators have the tools and training needed to provide high quality instruction in classrooms, 
Applied invests in a variety of professional development programs for teachers working near Company sites in Montana, 
Oregon, T exas and California. Applied funding for T each for T aiwan supports the organization’s efforts to recruit promising 
leaders to teach in rural elementary schools, while in Israel, employees dedicate significant time and resources to a local 
elementary school. 
T o encourage hands-on learning and the exploration of new ideas, Applied helped fund the Singapore Science Centre to 
develop a makerspace and to support Praxis in Korea to create an arts education project for students in Incheon City. In 
Shanghai, the Applied Materials Future Science Star competition attracts hundreds of teens from across the city to design 
innovative science projects. In Israel, Applied ensures that the Ofanim science bus delivers hands-on science learning to 
children living in remote areas of the country.  
In select cities in the U.S., Applied continued its long-term education initiative targeting student achievement in tradition-
ally underserved neighborhoods. Detailed information on the progress of this fifteen-year effort in San Jose, California and 
Austin, T exas is available in the 2016 Education Initiative Report.
The T ech Awards, presented by Applied Materials and a program of the T ech 
Museum of Innovation, paid tribute to the 294 innovators recognized during the first 15 years of the global awards program. The impact of these social entrepreneurs who have used technology to improve 2.6 billion lives around the world was celebrated at a November 2016 event in San Jose, California.
During the retrospective, Applied acknowledged the eleven recipients of the 
James C. Morgan Global Humanitarian Award, including Bill Gates, Al Gore and Queen Rania of Jordan, whose leadership and vision are shaping the future.
At the event, The T ech Museum announced that the T ech Awards would 
transition to a year-round program and include a series of exhibits featuring innovations addressing pressing global problems, educational offerings that incorporate social innovation, and new summits and events that celebrate innovation and inspire young people.T ech Awards18 APPLIED MATERIALS CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2016
Applied Materials’ innovation begins with our people. The Company succeeds by 
achieving great results in an environment where employees do their best. This value is 
reflected in our culture of growth, diversity, safety and ethics. We foster personal and 
professional development opportunities for employees through Applied Global University, online interactive learning tools, guest speaker lecture series and various other programs.
At the end of 2016, Applied’s global workforce included approximately 15,600 regular 
employees (not including temporary workers or interns), spanning 82 locations in 17 countries. IN THIS SECTION
 »Safety
 »T raining and Development
 »Diversity and Inclusion
 »Ethics
 »Human Rights
 »Public Policy
WORKPLACE 
SAFETY PERFORMANCE12014 2015 2016
North America  T otal case incidence rate (TCIR) 0.70 0.69 0.55
 Injuries or illnesses resulting in days away from work, restricted 
work activity, or job transfer for every 100 employees (Days Away and Restricted Time or DART)0.38 0.46 0.29
 Number of work-related fatalities 0 0 0
Worldwide  TCIR 0.46 0.46 0.44
 Injuries or illnesses resulting in days away from work, restricted work activity, or job transfer for every 100 employees (DART)0.26 0.32 0.26
 Number of work-related fatalities 0 0 0
 Number of office ergonomic evaluations performed 1,079 1,208 1,557
1 Data is for each of the fiscal years.
19 APPLIED MATERIALS CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2016
Safety at Applied
Applied conducts its business operations in a manner that protects the health and safety of workers, customers and neighboring commu-
nities. We are committed to complying with or exceeding all applicable regulatory requirements. 
Our EHS Management System aligns and integrates with our site business processes and incorporates formal risk assessments and 
mitigation practices validated by routine internal audits and periodic third-party audits of our certified manufacturing sites. The EHS Management System includes safety self-inspections, walkthroughs, safety review board meetings and committees, training and new chemical approvals, among other ongoing activities. 
Alzenau, Germany and Rehovot, Israel were both registered to OHSAS 18001 during 2016. Applied’s certification roadmap includes registration 
of three additional global manufacturing sites: Kalispell, Montana; Gloucester, Massachusetts; and Heimstetten, Germany. All non-registered sites utilize the same elements of the EHS Management System to align with appropriate environmental, health and safety practices globally.
The table below details the Company’s safety performance metrics for the past three fiscal years. We improved safety results from 2015 to 
2016 through continued efforts and management focus on EHS. However, the Company received one notice of violation in T aiwan in 2016, resulting from a lack of safety coordination meetings with contractors and suppliers at the Applied Materials T aiwan Hsinchu offices, as required by T aiwan Occupational Safety and Health laws. This issue was quickly mitigated by Applied EHS staff.
Applied Materials OHSAS 18001 
Manufacturing Sites: 
 »Austin, T exas
 »Santa Clara, California  
(New Product Integration)
 »Singapore 
 »Rehovot, Israel 
 »T ainan, T aiwan
 »Alzenau, GermanyTRAINING & DEVELOPMENT 2014 2015 2016
Average hours of training per year per person by category: regular full-time employees 
(RFT), total (RFT, temps, contractors, interns)41.5 RFT
28.5 T otal41 RFT
30 T otal41 RFT
30 T otal
Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews198 96 99
1 Every employee is encouraged to complete an annual performance evaluation. Following the performance evaluation, employees are also encouraged to set a 
development goal In 2016, 73 percent of employees had a development goal in place.
20 APPLIED MATERIALS CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2016
Training and Development 
The table below reflects the Company’s investment in formal internal workforce training over the past three years. We also 
support and encourage employees to develop their skills and knowledge in other ways including stretch, rotational and 
project assignments within the Company, often on cross-functional teams. Applied employees also benefit from educational 
offerings at local universities, through professional membership associations and via access to an in-house technical library.
Diversity and Inclusion 
Diversity and inclusion are foundational to the Company’s successful global talent strategy to attract, develop and retain world-class employees. When the best and brightest minds come together, their opinions, experiences, and backgrounds 
enhance teamwork and deliver better ideas and innovations. 
Our diversity footprint spans various cultures, backgrounds, ages, ethnicities and gender that help to weave a rich fabric 
of winning teams. Applied is working as an advocate to encourage more girls, women and ethnic minorities to participate in STEM (Science, T echnology, Engineering and Math) education and explore careers in technology.21 APPLIED MATERIALS CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2016
The Company actively promotes a rich and inclusive culture of understanding, empowerment and success through its 
policies, programs and initiatives. These include engaging with local universities and students through recruiting and 
mentoring programs, community involvement, employee resource groups (ERG), and recognition programs and events 
around the world.
Our ERGs, for example, provide an open forum to express viewpoints or shared interests to strengthen our connections 
with each other and local communities. Applied sponsors more than a dozen ERGs, including Hispanics in Partnership; 
the Black Employee Network; Y oung Professionals Network; the Women’s Professional Development Network and LGBT and Friends called Applied Pride.
2016 diversity program highlights included:Diversity and Inclusion days in Santa Clara, California and Austin, T exas offered guest speakers, interactive workshops, 
employee panels and an exclusive fireside chat featuring diverse male and female members of Applied’s Board of 
Directors who have deep technology and industry expertise and represent a range of work and life experiences. Key 
themes of Diversity and Inclusion Days included the importance of being bold and speaking up, appreciating differences 
to stimulate learning, and creating an inclusive and collaborative environment that is empowering and engaging.
African American and Hispanic ERG’s participated in student mentoring, community service and corporate philanthropic 
activities, including the Martin Luther King Y outh Legacy Awards and scholarship program in Austin and Greene Scholars 
Program Science Fair in Santa Clara campus. In addition, Applied has supported the Breakthrough Collaborative partner -
ship in Santa Clara and Austin for the past 15 years, helping more than 1,800 students become the first in their family to attend college.
A second military veteran ERG formed in Santa Clara, joining our existing group in Austin. Applied has a long history of 
recruiting at military bases and career fairs throughout the country in search of smart, innovative and dedicated team 
players who are looking to transition from military to civilian career opportunities. Additionally, the Company was rec-
ognized by Victory Media as a Military Friendly Employer for the 11th consecutive year recognizing Applied’s long-term 
commitment to hiring military professionals.
At Applied, we respect each individual, 
welcome diversity and embrace different perspectives as a key component of innovation. 22 APPLIED MATERIALS CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2016
In 2016, for the fifth consecutive year, Applied 
was named a World’s Most Ethical Company® by the Ethisphere Institute, an independent center of research promoting best practices in corporate ethics and governance.Ethics
Applied Materials maintains the highest ethical standard in our interaction with employees, customers, suppliers, com-
petitors and the public. We make ethics a shared responsibility between the Company and our employees. More than just 
following a set of rules, it’s a long-term commitment to doing business the right way, every day. We want our employees 
throughout the world to understand how their daily behavior and decisions impact the Company’s reputation as a trusted 
business partner and responsible and ethical corporate citizen.
T o reinforce our commitment to ethics, Applied Materials conducted numerous training reinforcement programs 
throughout 2016. Included among these was a multi-country “Ethics T our” with visits to Company offices in China, India, 
Israel, Singapore and the U.S. The goal was to remind employees of key ethical policies and best practices, and make 
them relatable across all languages and cultures. The Ethics and Compliance team worked closely with business unit 
general managers and senior leaders in each country to develop interactive sessions that engaged employees while high-
lighting the importance of making responsible business choices every day. Additional Ethics T our visits to Japan, Korea 
and T aiwan are planned for 2017.
Applied Materials also maintains Business Ethics Helplines, including toll-free phone numbers and an online form, 
globally and regionally in many local languages 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. These are confidentially administered by 
Navex, an industry leader for helpline solutions. Applied’s Ethics intranet site offers additional resources to help employ -
ees make responsible choices every day, including our Standards of Business Conduct and related policies, multiple train-ing materials, FAQs and executive videos. Employees can also email the Ombudsman to raise an issue or ask a question. 
These tools help create an environment where employees feel empowered and safe to speak up if they see or suspect something might be wrong, and to be open and honest at all times. 23 APPLIED MATERIALS CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2016HUMAN RIGHTS 2014 2015 2016
Number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or 
impact assessments, by country0 0 0
We are honored to be consistently recognized for our achieve-
ments by many industry organizations and publications. Some 2016 highlights include:
 »Corporate Knights’ Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations 
for the second year in a row  
 »Corporate Responsibility Magazine’s annual list of 100 Best 
Corporate Citizens for 13 years
 »FORTUNE magazine’s World’s Most Admired Companies® for two decades, regularly ranking among the top 5 in the semiconductor industry 
 »Newsweek Magazine’s T op Greenest Companies in America since it began in 2009
 »Victory Media’s T op 100 Military Friendly Employers® for 11 years running
 »Computerworld’s Best Places to Work in IT for seven years 
consecutively
 »Among Silicon Valley Business Journal’s T op Healthiest 
Employers in the Greater Bay Area for second year in a rowCommitted to  
Global Citizenship Human Rights 
Applied Materials is committed to human rights. We consistently strive to operate in an ethical and responsible man -
ner, both with our workforce and through our supply chain. Our Standards of Business Conduct includes several impor -
tant provisions on human rights, including prohibitions on the use of child labor or forced, bonded or indentured labor in 
our operations; and harsh or inhumane treatment, including corporal punishment or the threat of corporal punishment. In 
2013, Applied reinforced and clarified its prohibition on child labor in all countries in which it operates by implementing a 
Global Policy for Child Labor Avoidance.
Public Policy
As a responsible corporate citizen, Applied Materials interacts with government officials, elected representatives and candidates to provide information about the Company, our business and stakeholders, including trade associa-
tions of which we are a member. These efforts, led by our Government Affairs group, aim to shape public policy on 
certain issues that affect the Company’s business. In 2016, these issues included budget and appropriations, energy, 
immigration, natural resources, regulatory, and tax and trade issues. The Company’s lobbying activities are disclosed 
in periodic reports filed with the U.S. Senate and U.S. House of Representatives or the appropriate state agency (such 
as the California Secretary of State, New Y ork State Joint Committee on Ethics, or Secretary of the Commonwealth of 
Massachusetts), as applicable.201724 APPLIED MATERIALS CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2016POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS 2014 2015 20162
T otal value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, candidates, and 
related institutions by Applied Materials, Inc.1 $6,500 $0 $30,000
T otal value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, candidates, and related institutions by AMPAC.
1 $68,000 $70,000 $68,500
1  All contributions are made in the U.S. only. 
2 Detailed 2016 contributions by Applied and AMPAC can be found as part of the 2016 Political Disclosure Report.
Consistent with U.S. campaign finance law, the Applied Materials, Inc. Political Action Committee (AMPAC) may 
make campaign contributions to candidates for state or U.S. federal office, other political action committees and 
political party committees where permitted. AMPAC is funded through voluntary contributions from the Company’s 
eligible employees (principally executives) and directors, although the Company pays its administrative expenses. Its 
activities are overseen by the AMPAC Board of Directors, consisting of Applied employees, including several Company 
vice presidents.
Applied’s state contributions committee (consisting of the same individuals who serve on the AMPAC Board) over -
sees corporate political spending at the state level. The Company occasionally makes financial and in-kind political 
contributions within the United States as permitted by applicable laws, such as contributions to candidates for state-
wide offices and state legislatures. All contributions must be made for appropriate corporate purposes only, without 
regard for the private political preferences of executives. Neither Applied nor AMPAC makes contributions to so-
called “super PACs” nor do they make political contributions outside the United States.
Additionally, Applied belongs to various trade associations and similar organizations representing the range of issues the 
Company cares about and believes will benefit its business activities. More detailed information regarding political contribu-
tions or membership fees from Applied and/ or its AMPAC can be found as part of the 2016 Political Disclosure Report.25 APPLIED MATERIALS CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2016
RESOURCES AND REFERENCES
Additional information regarding Applied Materials’ business and its corporate citizenship activities are available on 
our website at the following links:
 »2016 Annual Report with 10-K 
 »Awards and Recognition
 »Carbon Disclosure Project (Annual Water Use and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reports)
 »Conflict Minerals Policy and Reporting
 »Corporate Governance  
 »Corporate Responsibility
 »Corporate Responsibility Reports
 »Environmental, Health and Safety Policy
 »How We Do It (A primer regarding our business, products, and industries we serve)
 »ISO Certifications
 »2016 Political Disclosure Report
 »Press Releases
 »Organizational Profile
 »T ransparency in Supply Chains ActLegal Disclosure
Safe Harbor Statement. This report contains forward-looking statements, including those 
regarding Applied’s industries and markets, performance, operations, strategies and goals, and other statements that are not historical facts. These statements are subject to risks and uncer -
tainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements, and are not guarantees of future performance.
Information concerning these risks and uncertainties is contained in Applied’s most recent 
reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements are based on management’s estimates, projections and assumptions as of June 29, 2017, and Ap-plied undertakes no obligation to update them.
© 2017 Applied Materials, Inc. Applied Materials and the Applied Materials logo are trademarks of 
Applied Materials, Inc. and/ or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. Third party trademarks mentioned are the property of their respective owners. Fortune World’s Most Admired Companies logo from FORTUNE Magazine, March 1, 2016 © 2016 From FORTUNE Magazine, March 1, 2016 © 2016 Time Inc. FORTUNE and The World’s Most Admired Companies are registered trademarks of Time Inc. and are used under license. FORTUNE and Time Inc. are not affiliated with, and do not endorse products or services of, Licensee.APPENDIX
If you would like more information about Applied Materials, visit our website at www.appliedmaterials.com. 
If you have specific questions or comments on the content of this report, contact our sustainability reporting team at:  
corporate_responsibility@amat.com.