APPLIED MATERIALS, INC.
www.appliedmaterials.com | a UGUst 20142013 CITIZENSHIP REPORT         PAGE 2 APPLIED MATERIALS c ITIzEnShIP REP oRT 2013         PAGE 3 APPLIED MATERIALS c ITIzEnShIP REP oRT 2013
Applied Materials has an enduring commitment to be a strong global 
corporate citizen. Environmental stewardship, investing in sustainable and 
responsible business practices and contributing to society are integral 
parts of Applied’s culture. These principles are a foundation to our success 
and provide value to our customers, stockholders and employees.
In 2013, we increased renewable energy generation at our global facilities 
by 140% compared to 2012. For the first time, all of Applied’s buildings in 
Santa Clara, California—home to our corporate headquarters—were 
powered by renewable energy purchases. Also, in communities where 
we operate around the world, the company extended its long-standing 
tradition of making a positive social contribution through charitable investments in a diverse range of education, civic development, arts 
and environmental programs.
We invite you to read our 2013 Citizenship Report and learn more about 
our sustainability, workplace and community-focused achievements.  
Gary Dickerson  
President and CEOLETTER
from 
theCEO
         PAGE 4 APPLIED MATERIALS c ITIzEnShIP REP oRT 2013
CONTENTS
1  introduction  5
 About This Report 6
 What c orporate Responsibility Means to Us  6
 
2  environment  7
 Energy  9
 Water 10
 Greenhouse Gas Emissions  11
 Waste and Recycling  12
3  Socie ty 13
 c ommunity Investment 14
 Employee Engagement 15 
 Public Policy and Political c ontributions  17
      
4   workplace 18
 Training and Development  19
 Safety  19
 h uman Rights  20
  
5  appendix 21
         PAGE 5
At Applied Materials, corporate responsibility has long been 
one of our fundamental values, playing a vital part in the 
company’s industry and technology leadership. As the global 
leader in providing innovative equipment and services for manufacturing advanced semiconductor, flat panel display 
and solar photovoltaic products, Applied also is committed  
to being a socially-responsible corporate citizen and creating  
a positive impact in the communities where we operate. This is reflected in our business practices and programs: from 
continually working to drive down our carbon footprint to engaging in community projects around the world to creating  
a thriving culture for our employees.  INTRODuCTIONaboU t tHis report
This 2013 c itizenship Report is the eighth annual sustainability report  
of Applied Materials, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as  
 “Applied” or “the company”). It follows the streamlined format of our 2012 
report and falls within the general guidelines of the Global Reporting 
Initiative™ (GRI) Reporting Framework (Version 3.1). This report includes 
information about the company’s economic, environmental and social 
performance, including resource metrics, community investments, 
workplace and political activities. It reflects the global operations of 
Applied for calendar year 2013, except where indicated that data is for 
Applied’s fiscal year, which ends on the last Sunday in o ctober.
Applied’s global operational footprint fluctuates with business  
acquisitions and divestitures, as well as the expansion, consolidation  
and relocation of its overall operations. These changes are, in part, a 
result of the highly cyclical and evolving nature of the primary industries 
the company serves. For divested businesses, historical environmental data has been adjusted retroactively to exclude discontinued operations.  
Acquired businesses and operations are included from the date of  
acquisition. In n ovember 2011, Applied completed its acquisition of 
Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates, Inc. (Varian), which added manufacturing and other facilities, plus over 1,000 employees, 
to Applied’s global operations.  
A list of additional resources relating to our business and sustainability 
performance is located in the appendix of this report. wHat c orporate r esponsibility m eans to Us
There are three key areas that Applied Materials focuses on in its  
corporate citizenship initiatives: Sustainability Practices, the  
Workplace and c ommunity Investments. 
Sustainability p ractices
Applied Materials conducts its business operations in a manner that works to preserve the environment. We also take strong measures 
to protect the health and safety of workers, customers and our 
neighboring communities. 
workplace
our greatest assets are the talented employees who are key to the 
company’s achievements and long-term success. Applied is dedicated  
to developing and retaining a world-class global workforce and integrating our core values and ethics into our business practices  
and the company’s culture. 
community i nvestments 
Applied Materials is committed to supporting the communities in which we work and live through charitable giving and strategic invest -
ments in education, civic development, the environment and the arts.
      I nTRoDUcTIon  |  PAGE 6 APPLIED MATERIALS c ITIzEnShIP REP oRT 2013Applied Materials is committed to protecting the environment 
and maintaining strong sustainability practice by: 
• Meeting or exceeding applicable regulatory requirements 
• Seeking ways to use energy resources more efficiently • Enhancing the environmental performance of our products
• Conducting our business with a positive impact on the   
   communities where we operate
Applied is a full member of the Electronic Industry Citizenship  
Coalition (EICC), an organization dedicated to cultivating  
strong corporate citizenship, stewardship principles and 
sustainability initiatives.  
  EnVIRonMEnT  |  PAGE 7
ENVIRONMENTcollaboration to sUstain  
tHe environment
Applied’s sustainability efforts are supported  
by our Supply c hain, Environmental h ealth 
and Safety (E hS) and Facilities organizations. 
The Supply c hain organization works with our 
suppliers on a regular basis to support sustain -
ability practices and initiatives that can benefit 
both the environment and our respective busi -
nesses. Applied encourages and helps guide our suppliers to improve the environmental, 
health and safety performance of their own  
operations and products. The company monitors these efforts through education, training, auditing and reporting.Global Footprint and  
environmental data c aptU re
As of December 31, 2013, Applied’s facilities  
footprint consisted of approximately 5.5  
million square feet of owned property and 1.8  
million square feet of leased property at 84 
sites located in 18 countries around the world. 
Applied’s key properties include both owned 
and leased facilities for research, development 
and engineering (RD&E); manufacturing; 
customer support; and corporate offices. 
Applied’s footprint also includes office space  for sales and marketing, engineering and 
customer support in various regions. In order  
to present a more comprehensive account  
of the company’s environmental footprint,  
the 2013 metrics in the tables include 650,000 square feet of leased office space not captured in previous reports (along with adjusted 
amounts to facilitate comparisons to prior years).
To accurately capture and track the company’s 
environmental impact, we use a specialized 
software solution known as an Energy and 
Sustainability System of Record (ESS). The ESS 
enables us to collect, analyze, interpret, act 
on and report power and water consumption, 
waste generation, business travel data and 
greenhouse gas (G hG) emissions (Scope 1, 2 
and 3 under the “Greenhouse Gas Protocol”
1), 
with consistent units and correlation to global  
reporting standards. Data is tracked and con  
solidated under a process that relies substan -
tially on information provided by utilities and other third parties on a calendar year basis.
      E nVIRonMEnT  |  PAGE 8 APPLIED MATERIALS c ITIzEnShIP REP oRT 2013
1The GHG Protocol is a widely-used international accounting tool for quantifying and analyzing greenhouse gas emissions, created by a partnership between the World Resources Institute and the World Business 
Council for Sustainable Development.ener Gy  
For its global operations, Applied utilizes both electricity and natural gas 
energy sources. In 2013, while natural gas consumption went down due to 
conservation efforts, Applied’s overall electricity usage increased due to 
the additional office facilities included in this year’s reporting. Significantly, 
25% of Applied’s total energy consumed worldwide was from renewable 
sources, including solar and wind power produced on-site at our facilities. 
The following table shows direct and indirect worldwide energy consump -
tion at Applied’s facilities for the last three years, as well as the amount  
of such usage that was obtained from renewable sources:
2011 2012 2013
Direct energy consumption by primary 
energy source (Gas) (Million Therms)4.3 4.2 4.0
Indirect energy consumption by primary source (Electricity) (GWh)292 296 304
1
Renewable Energy (Electricity)(GWh)237 41 75
1 Excluding 650,000 square feet of leased office facilities for comparison to prior years, 2013 
electricity consumption was 289 GWh, representing a 2% decrease from 2012.  
2 Renewable energy consists of a combination of on-site generation and green power purchases. annual w orldwide e nergy c onSumptionThe company remains dedicated to increasing its electricity sourcing from 
renewables, including clean energy installations at several of its facilities 
in the U.S., Europe and Asia, as well as supplementing energy requirements 
through green power purchases from local utility companies. 
Applied’s on-site renewable energy generation increased by 140% 
compared to 2012, driven by the 2.5 megawatt wind turbine installed at 
our Gloucester, Massachusetts site in 2012, which produced 7.1 GWh of 
energy and powered more than 25% of the campus in 2013. In addition, 
solar photovoltaic panels installed at company sites in the U.S., Switzerland, 
Singapore and c hina generated nearly 3.6 GWh of energy. This year also 
marked the first time that Applied’s headquarters in Santa c lara, c alifornia 
harnessed 100% of its power from green energy purchases. 
Some notable energy conservation projects completed in 2013 included 
those in the company’s c alifornia chiller and boiler energy plants, and its 
Austin, Texas cleanroom air conditioning, which are expected to reduce carbon dioxide equivalent ( co2e) emissions by 2,000 metric tons per year. 
In 2013, Applied pursued new advanced technology solutions and 
partnerships to help achieve savings at several of its domestic and 
international facilities. In c alifornia, as a participant in the Emerging  
Technologies Program sponsored by Pacific Gas & Electric (PG&E), Applied demonstrated the feasibility of advanced lighting controls in 
combination with daylight harvesting. The company also replaced 
existing lighting with LEDs and high-efficiency fluorescent bulbs in its 
Austin, Texas; Gloucester, Massachusetts; and Rehovot, Israel facilities.
      E nVIRonMEnT  |  PAGE 9 APPLIED MATERIALS c ITIzEnShIP REP oRT 2013water 
Applied’s environmental stewardship extends to all of the natural resources 
used in our operations—including water. Total water usage increased 
slightly from 2012 with the additional square footage reported in 2013. 
however, without this addition, water use declined 3% from 2012 to 2013, 
evidencing our ongoing efforts to be more environmentally-efficient in our manufacturing and lab operations. The following table shows water 
usage for the last three years ( ccF=100 cubic feet): 
2011 2012 2013
Total water withdrawal by 
source (cc F)74,582190,049272,1223
Worldwide total water usage (ccF)
3608,650 538,682 538,8944
1 Reflects withdrawals at Sunnyvale, California campus only, which contains a pump-and-treat 
system that is operated to mitigate a pre-existing groundwater condition. Amounts adjusted 
from prior year reports due to improved data integrity.  
2 Reflects withdrawals at Sunnyvale, California campus (per above) as well as a well operated 
at the Kalispell, Montana Birch Grove facility to supply domestic and process water (not captured in prior year reports).  
3 Amounts for owned facilities include domestic, landscaping and process (if any) usage. 
Amounts for leased facilities include domestic and process (if any) usage, while leased office-only facilities include domestic only.  
4 Excluding 650,000 square feet of leased office facilities for comparison to prior years, 2013 
worldwide water usage was 524,017 CCF, representing a 3% decrease from 2012.annual w orldwide water uS age
A significant portion of Applied’s water consumption is for irrigation of 
landscaping at our facilities. To help reduce usage, the company deployed 
smart irrigation controls at its Austin, Texas site, reducing 2013 irrigation 
water usage by over 50% at this location compared to 2012. 
      E nVIRonMEnT  |  PAGE 10 APPLIED MATERIALS c ITIzEnShIP REP oRT 2013
Largest Windmill   
in the Northeast U.S.  
Reaps Results
In 2012, we completed construction of a 2.5 MW wind turbine at our manufacturing and RD&E center in 
Gloucester, Massachusetts. In 2013, the turbine supplied 25% of the Gloucester campus’ electricity demand, or 
7,111,408 kWh—the equivalent of one year’s electricity 
use for approximately 675 homes. This clean energy 
source also avoids an estimated 2,400 tons of co 2e per 
year compared to fossil fuel-based energy. o verall, the 
turbine was responsible for nearly 10% of the renewable 
energy used by Applied Materials worldwide in 2013. 2011 2012 2013
Total direct and indirect 
greenhouse gas emissions by weight (MT ce) 
(Scope 1 + 2)163,000 186,303 193,275
1
other relevant indirect 
greenhouse gas emissions by weight (MT ce) 
(Scope 3 air travel)34,234 35,069 18,690
1 Excluding 650,000 square feet of leased office facilities for comparison to prior years, 2013 Scope 1 
and Scope 2 GHG was 181,591 MTCe, representing a 2.5% decrease from 2012.annual w orldwide g reenhou Se gaS emiSSion S 
      E nVIRonMEnT  |  PAGE 11 APPLIED MATERIALS c ITIzEnShIP REP oRT 2013
Green HoUse Gas e missions 
Applied works to reduce its energy usage by making improvements to  
facilities and streamlining its operations. o ur approach includes footprint 
consolidation, green team efforts and other continuous improvement 
process ( cIP) activities, as well as working with energy suppliers to identify 
renewable energy sources with little to no G hG emissions. As part of this 
objective, the company also provides incentives, programs and information 
to employees to encourage them to do their part to reduce pollution.  
The table below shows Applied’s worldwide direct and indirect G hG 
emissions for the last three years (MT ce=metric tons of carbon equivalent).  
The 4% increase in Scope 1 and 2 G hG in 2013 over 2012 is primarily 
attributable to the additional leased facilities captured in our 2013 reporting.
 Amps Up   
EV Charging  
Station Program 
In addition to existing Electric Vehicle (EV) charging stations 
at the Santa c lara/Sunnyvale, Austin and Gloucester sites,  
in February 2013 the company participated in a federal grant program to install over a dozen more electrical vehicle 
charging stations at its Santa c lara and Sunnyvale, c alifornia 
campuses for employees and members of the community. With the steady climb of users at all locations, the company 
is reviewing expansion plans for additional installations at 
its Sunnyvale and Austin campuses. Applied shows Applied’s worldwide waste, recycling and diversion rates for the last 
three years (in metric tons). h azardous waste treated off-site decreased 
in 2013, largely due to the company’s waste treatment project at its Santa c lara, c alifornia facilities. A temporary treatment system was 
installed to treat wastewater prior to discharge to the local public treatment plant, eliminating the need to collect and ship the wastewater off-site for 
disposal. A long-term system is expected to be completed in 2014.
The company has several recycling programs for construction materials, 
copper piping, wood and batteries. Applied’s battery recycling program 
captured 1,113 pounds of batteries in 2013, and has resulted in 4,000 pounds 
recycled in the last three-year period.total  weight o F wa Ste B y 
type & di SpoSal method  
(metric  ton S)2011 2012 2013
hazardous waste treated off-site 617 2,201 610
Landfill (non-hazardous) 1,167 1,352 3,351
Recycled/composted/diverted 6,545 9,190 7,787
Diversion Rate (%) 84.9 87.1 66.31
1  Excluding 650,000 square feet of leased office facilities for comparison to prior years, the 
diversion rate was 70.2%, representing a 19% decrease from the 2012 rate.annual w orldwide wa Ste,  
recycling and diver Sion
      E nVIRonMEnT  |  PAGE 12 APPLIED MATERIALS c ITIzEnShIP REP oRT 2013
waste and r ecyclin G 
In 2013, the amount of non-hazardous waste generated increased. This was due to inclusion of the additional footprint previously refer -
enced, where recycling programs are currently being developed, as well as improved data quality over 2011 and 2012. The table at right In 2013, Applied’s activities aimed at reducing G hG emissions  
included ongoing and new efforts, such as: 
•	carpool/ride-matching service for employees in california,  
T exas and Massachusetts
•	Public and alternative transportation incentives for employees  
in california
•	Preferred parking for carpool and hybrid vehicles 
•	Electric vehicle charging stations at Santa c lara/Sunnyvale,  
Austin and Gloucester campuses
•	Work-from-home (AppliedAnywhere) program with 435  
participants worldwide
•	T ele- and video-conferencing for virtual work groups and  
all-employee meetings 
•	14 virtual meeting telepresence rooms, reducing the need for  
business travel and enabling the avoidance of an estimated  
1,513 tons of co2e 
•	80% of the 3,000 classes available to employees through  
Applied Global University (AGU) are offered online 
•	Solar Education Workshops for U.S. employees to learn  
about discount incentives for installing solar energy power  
for their homesA long-time guiding principle of Applied Materials is that actively 
engaged corporate citizens contribute to the vibrancy of local 
communities. Based on this belief, Applied Materials and the 
Applied Materials Foundation are committed to making positive social contributions in regions where we operate.
In 2013, Applied and its Foundation awarded $10.4 million in  
strategic grants around the world to support students and  
teachers as they explore the power of ideas, local leadership 
in meeting basic needs, creativity as the foundation of innovation 
and environmental stewardship to ensure a brighter future for all.
  SocIETY  |  PAGE 13
SOCIETytHe power o F ideas in l ocal c omm Unities 
We are committed to inspiring the next generation of innovators.  
In fiscal year 2013, Applied and its Foundation funded a wide range  
of global programs to encourage critical thinking and promote young  
students’ interest in using science and math skills to address real 
world challenges.  
Below are just a few of the many projects we supported that encourage 
students to expand their perspectives and develop new skills that show -
case the power of their ideas to create a better world:
•	Supported middle school students’ participation in the Birdseye  
hammond T ech c enter at o’Maley Middle School in Gloucester, 
Massachusetts with hands-on design and drafting experience that 
aligns with their science and math curriculum
•	hosted the c lean T ech c ompetition in Singapore to inspire teams of 
high school students to design technological solutions to address  
the real-world problem of access to “c lean Water for All” 
•	Sponsored Shanghai’s Future Science Stars, enabling 300 youth to  
design and create projects for a city-wide science fair 
•	Funded the nonprofit We care Solar to create an opportunity for youth at the T ech Museum in San Jose, california to build “Solar  
Suitcases” used to produce lighting for medical clinics and maternity hospitals in Africa
•	collaborated with Semiconductor Equipment and Materials  
International (SEMI), a global industry association, to support high 
T ech U—a multi-day career exploration workshop for youth interested  
in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM), and 
hosted workshops in T exas, california, new Y ork, Japan and Korea •	Worked with the U.S. Department of Energy, china’s national Energy 
Agency and Peking University to launch the first Solar Decathlon in 
china—an international contest for teams of university students to 
design and build an attractive, energy-efficient and affordable solar home 
•	Supported the Science on Wheels program of the Weizmann Institute to bring fun, interactive science enrichment programs and hands-on 
activities to 30 schools in low-income areas in Israel
      S ocIETY  |  PAGE 14 APPLIED MATERIALS c ITIzEnShIP REP oRT 2013employee en GaGement
Applied and its Foundation have a long-standing tradition of supporting  
employee engagement and community giving through volunteer 
recognition and employee-matching gift programs. o ur employees 
participated in numerous charitable events and programs around the world in fiscal year 2013, including:
•	Annual EarthWorks campaign to raise environmental awareness and 
encourage employee participation in 24 educational and volunteer 
events in seven countries
•	An Employee Giving and Matching Program, which generated nearly $4 million for charities and schools
•	our Annual Food Drive, which raised $1.2 million for 38 food banks 
across the U.S. and for the World Food Program, the food aid arm of the United nations, which addresses food scarcity issues globally  
•	A Volunteer Time Grant program, under which employees logged over 
15,000 hours of volunteer services for nonprofit organizations into the 
company’s online GivingStation, which the Foundation matched with 
nearly $45,000 in donations to community organizations
Applied employees also rallied to support a diversity of volunteer 
programs where they gave time to community enhancement  
activities, including:
•	Building solar-powered homes with habitat for humanity in Korea
•	organizing the first food drive for the S oS children’s Village in 
Bangalore, India
•	Replanting trees after a wildfire in Bastrop, T exas
•	conducting blood drives in Kalispell, Montana•	Joining T each for America classrooms in Phoenix, Arizona 
•	Inspiring youth to pursue education beyond high school on  
“college Day” in San Jose, california
2011 2012 2013
Total community investments 
by Applied Materials and the Applied Materials Foundation  ($M) (excludes administrative costs and in-kind donations)11.7 10.7 10.4
Total Giving through Foundation Match Program (employee gifts plus match in $M)3.4 4.0 3.7
Total Volunteer Time Grant hours logged 8,945 9,015 15,442
Total contributions paid by Applied Materials Foundation based on Time Grant hours $33,250 $38,500 $44,550
2
1 Data is for calendar year 2013.  
2 Reflects results of expanded volunteer program initiated in April 2013 that encouraged  
employees to log volunteer hours on an ongoing basis and increased matching grants from  
maximum of $250/year to $400/year per employee. worldwide community inve Stment S1
      S ocIETY  |  PAGE 15 APPLIED MATERIALS c ITIzEnShIP REP oRT 2013    SocIETY  |   PAGE 16 APPLIED MATERIALS c ITIzEnShIP REP oRT 2013
Helping   
in Times of Disaster
over the years, Applied Materials has demonstrated 
its readiness to help in crises that affect areas 
where our employees work and live. In 2013, the company responded quickly to natural disasters in  
Europe, c hina and India to meet community needs 
and complement the work of relief agencies to help 
those affected by tragedies.
In Dresden, Germany, record-level rains and ensuing 
flooding in June 2013 destroyed parts of the region. Applied awarded grants of U.S. $5,000 each to help 
restore the facilities of three nonprofit agencies so they 
could resume operations. Employees in Germany also 
made personal contributions to these local relief efforts. 
china’s Sichuan province experienced a devastating 
earthquake in April 2013. The Applied Materials 
Foundation awarded a grant to the c hina Youth Development Foundation to build temporary class -
rooms and provide school supplies to students. Additionally, employees of Applied Materials c hina 
helped raise funds for relief operations. In total, more than U.S. $80,000 was contributed.
In June 2013, the mountainous Uttarakhand region 
of India was devastated by flash floods and landslides, 
leaving thousands homeless. The Applied Materials 
Foundation made a gift of U.S. $10,000 to h abitat for 
humanity India, helping to fund delivery of materials  
and a sustainable housing program to support rebuilding efforts. Employees in the region also gave 
donations through local fundraising efforts. 2011 2012 2013
Total value of financial and in-
kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by Applied Materi -
als, Inc.
1$303,3052$274,9002$12,500
Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by AMPA c.
1 $85,400 $89,000 $56,000
1 All contributions are made in the U.S. only.
2 Includes contributions of $50,000 each to the Democratic and Republican Governors 
Associations. No contributions were made to these associations in 2013.political contriB ution S
For additional information about the company’s political activities and 
associated governance processes, please see our 2013 Political Disclosure 
Report available at http:/ /www.appliedmaterials.com/files/political_dis -
closure_report.pdf .
      S ocIETY  |  PAGE 17 APPLIED MATERIALS c ITIzEnShIP REP oRT 2013
pUblic policy
As a corporate citizen, Applied engages in efforts to help shape 
public policy around selected key issues that affect the company’s 
business. In 2013, these issues included budget/appropriations, 
energy, immigration, natural resources, regulatory, taxation and trade. 
The company’s lobbying activities are disclosed in periodic reports  
filed with the U.S. Senate and U.S. h ouse of Representatives or the  
appropriate state agency (such as the c alifornia Secretary of State 
or n ew York State Joint c ommittee on Ethics), as applicable.  
The Applied Materials, Inc. Political Action c ommittee (AMPA c) 
may make campaign contributions to candidates for U.S. federal 
office, other political action committees and political party com -
mittees, and state candidates where permitted. AMPA c is funded 
through voluntary contributions from the company’s eligible  
employees and directors. The company occasionally makes  
financial and in-kind political contributions directly within the  
United States as permitted by applicable laws, such as contributions 
to candidates for c alifornia statewide offices and state legislatures 
or political party committees. These contributions may be made  for appropriate corporate purposes only. 
 neither Applied nor AMPA c makes contributions to so-called 
“super PA cs” or any independent expenditures in support of or in 
opposition to campaigns, nor do they make political contributions 
outside the United States. c ontributions are reported as required  
in filings with the U.S. Federal Elections c ommission or the  
appropriate state agency (such as the c alifornia Secretary of State), 
as applicable.As of the end of fiscal 2013, Applied’s global workforce included 
approximately 13,700 regular employees (not including 
temporary employees or interns), spanning 84 locations in 
18 countries.
Applied prides itself on being a company where employees can  
build their knowledge, skills and abilities for personal and career 
development, and work in a safe and ethical environment.
  WoRKPLA cE  |  PAGE 18
wORkPLACEThe tables that follow reflect key data for the past three years about the 
company’s workforce training and development, as well as safety metrics.
north america 2011 2012 2013
Total case incidence rate (T cIR) 1.05 0.80 0.71
Injuries or illnesses resulting in days 
away from work, restricted work activity, or job transfer for every 100 employees (Days Away & Restricted Time or DART)0.56 0.43 0.47
number of work-related fatalities 0 0 0
worldwide 2011 2012 2013
Total case incidence rate (T cIR) 0.81 0.52 0.49
Injuries or illnesses resulting in days away from work, restricted work activity, or job transfer for every 100 employees (Days Away & Restricted Time or DART)0.51 0.31 0.33
number of work-related fatalities 0 0 0
number of office ergonomic  
evaluations performed812 921 934
1 Data is for fiscal year 2013.SaFety metricS1
2011 2012 2013
Average hours of training per year per person by category—regular full-time employees (RFT)  
and total (RFT, temps, contractors, interns)40 r Ft 41 r Ft 44 r Ft
26 t otal 28 t otal 32 t otal
Percentage of employees receiving regular  
performance and career development reviews
194 95 95
1 Every employee is encouraged annually to complete an online performance appraisal that becomes 
part of their permanent record and can serve as a basis for career development planning. While 
nearly all eligible employees receive performance ratings from their manager, not all employees complete the appraisal. In addition, employees are encouraged annually to complete an Individual Development Plan (IDP) that includes skills assessment and a development roadmap.  In 2013, 75% of employees had an IDP in place.training and development1
      W oRKPLA cE  |  PAGE 19 APPLIED MATERIALS c ITIzEnShIP REP oRT 2013
As part of measuring our success, every year a global survey is conducted  
to gain employee insights and collect recommended changes and  
improvements. The 2013 Employee Pulse Survey achieved the highest 
engagement score to date. Improved results from 2012 reflected the 
company’s progress in providing employees with better direction and 
communication about the company’s strategy and vision, along with 
career development opportunities. In 2013, Applied introduced several new employee development resources through Applied Global University (AGU), including new online and 
classroom-based courses, an eBook subscription service available on mobile 
devices, and access to book summaries on topics such as conflict 
management, leadership development, presentation skills, change management and harassment prevention.2011 2012 2013
number and percentage 
of operations that have 
been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments, by country0 0 0human right S indicator
    W oRKPLA cE  |  PAGE 20 APPLIED MATERIALS c ITIzEnShIP REP oRT 2013
All employees are also required to complete annual training and 
certification on the company’s Standards of Business c onduct 
(available on Applied’s website ) in order to support ethical 
decision-making and conduct.
HUman r iGHts
Applied Materials demonstrates its commitment to h uman Rights 
by consistently striving to operate in an ethical and responsible 
manner. The Applied Materials Standards of Business c onduct 
—which applies to both our global workforce and supply chain—includes several important provisions pertaining to 
human rights. These include prohibitions on the use of child 
labor or forced, bonded or indentured labor in our operations. 
Additionally, the Standards of Business c onduct forbid harsh or 
inhumane treatment, including corporal punishment or the threat of corporal punishment.    
In 2013, Applied implemented its Global Policy for c hild Labor 
Avoidance, which clarifies and reinforces the prohibition on child 
labor in all countries in which we operate. Applied Acknowledged 
For Its Ethics
For the second year in a row, Applied Materials was named a 
Most Ethical c ompany® by the Ethisphere Institute, an indepen -
dent center of research promoting best practices in corporate ethics and governance. The award recognizes organizations 
around the world from multiple industries that demonstrate  
ethical corporate leadership.
Ethics are an integral part of Applied Materials’ culture and  
foundational to our success, not just as a business, but as a leading 
global corporate citizen. Applied’s Standards of Business c onduct are 
rooted in the guiding principles of our core values, namely mutual trust and respect. o ur relationships with customers, suppliers and 
others we do business with depend on that common trust and are  a natural extension of our core values.
 A key component of our Ethics program is educating and training our 
global workforce on the importance of doing the right thing—every 
day. o ur strong ethical culture is also reflected in our management 
team, who lead by example. We recognize ethics is a shared responsibility and appreciate our employees’ ongoing commitment 
to responsible business practices and ethical decision-making.      APPE nDIX  |  PAGE 21 APPLIED MATERIALS c ITIzEnShIP REP oRT 2013
APPENDIx
reSource S and re Ference S
Additional information regarding Applied Materials’ business and corporate 
citizenship activities is available on our website at the following links:
•	2013 annual r eport with 10-k
•	applied materials Blog
•	awards and r ecognition 
•	carbon disclosure p roject  (Annual Water Use and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reports)
•	company history 
•	conflict minerals p olicy and r eporting 
•	corporate governance
•	corporate r esponsibility 
•	community
•	Sustainability
•	workplace
•	corporate r esponsibility r eports
•	environmental, health and Safety 
•	global c lean p ower generation  (On-site solar- and wind-powered energy systems)
•	how w e do it  (A primer regarding our business, products, and industries we serve)
•	iSo certifications 
•	press r eleases
•	organizational p rofile 
 contact Us
If you would like more information about Applied Materials, please visit our website at 
www.appliedmaterials.com . 
If you have specific questions or comments on the content of this report, please contact our sustainability reporting team at: corporate_responsibility@amat.com .
leGal d isclos Ure
Safe h arbor Statement. This report contains forward-looking statements, including those regarding 
Applied’s performance, operations, strategies and goals, and other statements that are not historical 
facts. Forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that 
could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied, including uncertain 
global economic and industry conditions; technology trends; government policies and incentives; 
Applied’s ability to achieve the objectives of operational and strategic initiatives; and other risks 
described in Applied’s most recent reports filed with the Securities and Exchange c ommission. All 
forward-looking statements are based on management’s estimates, projections and assumptions as of June 1, 2014, and Applied undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
© 2014 Applied Materials, Inc.  Applied Materials and the Applied Materials logo are trademarks  
of Applied Materials, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. Third party trademarks 
mentioned are the property of their respective owners.
         PAGE 22 APPLIED MATERIALS c ITIzEnShIP REP oRT 2013