CONNECTING
THE FUTURE
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
REPORT 2014
ASM International NV (‘ASMI’) is a leading supplier of semiconductor wafer processing 
equipment. We have a strong position in leading edge technologies, and our customers include all of the top semiconductor device manufacturers. Our portfolio of atomic layer deposition (‘ALD’) products is an enabling technology for our customers, helping them to build faster, cheaper and more powerful semiconductors that bring greater opportunities for people to understand, create and share. 
Headquartered in Almere, the Netherlands, we have more than 1,600 employees with 
26 nationalities, in Europe, Asia and the US. ASMI common stock trades on Nasdaq (symbol ‘ASMI’) and the Euronext Amsterdam Stock Exchange (symbol ‘ASM’).  For more information, visit www.asm.com.
ABOUT ASMI
2
ASMI | CR REPORT 2014
SUPPLY CHAIN CEO MESSAGE AT A GLANCE CR AT ASM ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ABOUT OUR REPORTING
IN THIS REPORT
ABOUT THIS REPORT
Our Corporate responsibility report covers all aspects of our efforts to manage our business responsibly. The data provided covers our Front-end operations  for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2014, except where indicated otherwise.
3
ASMI | CR REPORT 2014
MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO  5
WE OPERATE AS A TRULY GLOBAL CITIZEN  5
ASM AT A GLANCE  6
KEY FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL FIGURES  6
CR AT ASM  8
MANAGING RESPONSIBILITY  9
OUR BUSINESS  9
OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY POLICY  10
ACHIEVEMENTS IN CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  11
OBJECTIVES FOR 2015  12
ENVIRONMENT  13
OUR APPROACH  14
PERFORMANCE  15SOCIAL  17
OUR APPROACH  18
PEOPLE  18
ETHICS  19
TALENT ATTRACTION AND DEVELOPMENT  20
OUR WORKFORCE  21
DIVERSITY  21
HEALTH AND SAFETY  22
COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT  23
SUPPLY CHAIN  24
OUR APPROACH  25
EICC SUPPLIER ASSESSMENTS  26
CONFLICT MINERALS  26
ABOUT OUR REPORTING  27
MATERIALITY  28
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT  28
SUPPLY CHAIN CEO MESSAGE AT A GLANCE CR AT ASM ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ABOUT OUR REPORTING
CONNECTING 
THE FUTURE
COMMITTED
TO CREvery day our groundbreaking deposition  
technologies are helping to connect the future. So we want to make sure it’s a good one.  One where people and the environment are kept safe from
 harm. One where our innovations 
bring communities together. One where we demand high ethical standards of ourselves and our suppliers. Because helping to create advanced chips is better when the advances we make are steps to a better future.
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
SUPPLY CHAIN
4
ASMI | CR REPORT 2014
SUPPLY CHAIN CEO MESSAGE AT A GLANCE CR AT ASM ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ABOUT OUR REPORTING
A LETTER FROM CHUCK DEL PRADO
PRESIDENT & CEO
Our company is a leading provider of technology solutions for semiconductor producers. 
With our atomic layer deposition (‘ALD’) and plasma enhanced ALD (‘PEALD’)technologies, we are well positioned to participate in future industry technology transitions. In the coming years, the ALD market is projected to have substantial growth opportunities. We are focused on continuing to leverage our ALD and other key technologies to create long-term value for our customers, shareholders and our society. 
We exist to drive the innovation that creates new opportunities 
for society. Our technology helps create the advanced circuitry and logic that drives societal development through computing, medicine, transportation, communications, education, and so many other innovations shaping the world around us. 
We also seek to be a leader in responsible, sustainable business 
practices. As the expectations of our customers, business partners and other stakeholders have increased, we have taken significant steps to strengthen our management of social and environmental performance and non-financial risk.
Important recent milestones include:
•
 Our commitment to Corporate Responsibility was reaffirmed through our Executive Commitment Statement.
•
 Our Environmental Management System received global certification and we established targets to further improve our environmental performance. •
 We implemented performance metrics for managing ethical conduct in our organization.
•
 We introduced the Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition (‘EICC’) Code of Conduct as our supplier code of conduct, and have established assessment goals for critical suppliers as we strive for a responsible supply chain. 
Our increased focus supported performance improvements. The number of workplace injuries have continued to decline in 2013 and 2014. Voluntary employee turnover also has dropped. We made progress toward the achievement of three of four environmental targets, and took corrective action to addr
ess 
an increase in water consumption. 
This report, our first formal corporate responsibility report, is just 
one more step toward our commitment to Deliver Excellence™ for all of our stakeholders around the globe. Looking forward, 2015 presents opportunities and challenges  for our company. We will continue our strong focus on R&D to Drive Innovation™, creating value for society. We will do this while making further progress embedding responsible business practices in our operations and ensuring we and our suppliers comply with the Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition (‘EICC’) Code of Conduct. 
Our objective is to realize profitable and responsible growth. 
Please read through our first Corporate responsibility report to see our progress and further aspirations.
  
Charles D. (Chuck) del PradoPresident & Chief Executive Officer
MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO
WE OPERATE AS A TRULY GLOBAL CITIZEN
5
ASMI | CR REPORT 2014
SUPPLY CHAIN CEO MESSAGE AT A GLANCE CR AT ASM ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ABOUT OUR REPORTING
ASMI AT A GLANCE
KEY FIGURES
2012 2013 2014
NET SALES* IN EUR MILLION 370 452 546
OPERATING RESULT* IN EUR MILLION 1 45 91
INITIAL PATENTS FILED 64 61 66
BASIC NET EARNINGS PER SHARE IN EUR 0.13 0.71 2.49**
STAFF AT YEAR END FULL TIME EQUIVALENT (FTE) 1,636 1,503 1,635
*  Data for wafer processing operations 
** Note: excluding effects sale of share ASMPT
2013-2015 ENVIRONMENT SCORECARD
OBJECTIVE unitPROGRESS
20142015 TARGET
(VS. 2012 BASELINE)
GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) REDUCING MEASURES METRIC TON EQUIV CO2 (MT-CO2E) 71% 0.8K
WATER USAGE REduction (M3) M336% 10K
RECYCLED SOLID WASTE DIVERSION RATE PERCENT (%) OF TOTAL SOLID WASTE 76% 85%
UNINTENDED DISCHARGES TOTAL COUNT 0 ZEro / YEar22% 
STAFF EMPLOYED IN R&D
 
1,266 
PATENTS IN FORCE AS OF  
DECEMBER 31, 2014
98% 
EMPLOYEES TRAINED  IN ETHICS
18 
NUMBER OF COUNTRIES  IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN2014 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE TARGETS
2012 2013 2014 TARGET
EMPLOYEE TURNOVER (%) 10.7% 7.4 % 6.9% 8.7%
RECORDABLE INJURY CASE RATE 0.54 0.30 0.35 0.30ASM AT A GLANCE 
KEY FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL FIGURES
6
ASMI | CR REPORT 2014
SUPPLY CHAIN CEO MESSAGE AT A GLANCE CR AT ASM ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ABOUT OUR REPORTING
NET SALES In EUR million
177
NET SALES In EUR million
95NET SALES In EUR million
274EMPLOYEES At years end (FTE)
600
EMPLOYEES At years end (FTE)
311EMPLOYEES At years end (FTE)
724SUPPLIERS 
259
SUPPLIERS 
211SUPPLIERS 
520ASMI WORLDWIDE
7
ASMI | CR REPORT 2014
SUPPLY CHAIN CEO MESSAGE AT A GLANCE CR AT ASM ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ABOUT OUR REPORTING
CR AT ASMI
Our company is all about innovation and the resultant benefit for society. We provide leading- 
edge technologies that enable electronic devices with superior performance and reduced energy consumption. By continually increasing processing power, and reducing device size, our customers  are able to further expand smart technology into the products that help improve quality of life for people everywhere. 
Our continued strong investment in research and development 
drives scientific research working with our research partners and customers to extend the boundaries of what was previously possible. Our technology inspires the leap of the imagination that has transformed communications, medicine, and information technology. Being a responsible company
We believe that being a responsible company creates value for our company, our stakeholders and society at large. We are continually focused on creating better products and a stronger brand. Our focus on managing all aspects of our business responsibly helps attract the key talent that drives our innovation. Today, the brightest minds focus on the big picture and want to be a part of a responsible company. 
• 
 Continue our strong focus on R&D 
and innovation to create value  for society through technology.
• 
 Manage all aspects of our business responsibly to meet or exceed stakeholder expectations.
• 
 Hold our suppliers to the same standard that we hold ourselves.CR STRATEGY
Our mission is to provide our customers with the most advanced, cost-effective, and reliable products, service and global support network in the semi
-
conductor industry, and  beyond.ASMI MISSION
As a truly global citizen, our vision is to make positive contributions to people and planet. CR VISION“ We believe that being 
responsible creates value 
for our  company, our 
stakeholders and society 
at large.”CR AT ASM
8
ASMI | CR REPORT 2014
SUPPLY CHAIN CEO MESSAGE AT A GLANCE CR AT ASM ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ABOUT OUR REPORTING
We know that customers seek to purchase from businesses 
that are managed ethically and responsibly, and our customers actively encourage us to put in place the right management processes for social responsibility and plan for the long term with
 objectives and goals. 
Our success is rooted in progress and wellbeing in society, which requires that we interact with and support society responsibly. We also understand the importance of having the right metrics and framework to measure and report our progress. 
MANAGING RESPONSIBLY
At ASMI, we are committed to upholding high standards in
 corporate governance and ethics practices. We believe 
our comprehensive internal policies and procedures provide a structure for the operation of ASMI that is consistent with the
 best interests of our shareholders and customers. 
As we are listed on both the NYSE Euronext Amsterdam Stock Exchange and Nasdaq, we
 are required to comply 
with Sarbanes-Oxley Act corporate governance requirements in the US, and applicable best practices set out by nasdaq, the US Securities and Exchange Commission (‘SEC’), and the Dutch Corporate Governance Code published in December 2008 (the ‘Code’).
More information about the systems of management and 
control, which form the basis for how we run our company, is
 available in the Corporate governance section of our 
Annual  report. Documents providing details about aspects 
of our corporate governance system are also on our website. OUR BUSINESS
Thermal products 
business unit
Almere, the Netherlands
Phoenix, AZ, US
Plasma products 
business unit
Tokyo, Japan
Cheonan, South KoreaResearchfacilities
Leuven, Belgium
Helsinki, Finland
Manufacturing
SingaporeMANAGING RESPONSIBILITY
OUR BUSINESS
9
ASMI | CR REPORT 2014
SUPPLY CHAIN CEO MESSAGE AT A GLANCE CR AT ASM ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ABOUT OUR REPORTING
The following documents are available at www.asm.com:
• Supervisory Board Profile; 
• Supervisory Board Rules;
• Management Board Rules;
• Audit Committee Charter;
• Nomination, Selection and Remuneration Committee Charter;
• Code of Ethics;
• Whistleblower Policy;
• Anti-Fraud Policy; 
• Rules concerning Insider Trading;
• Remuneration Policy.
We have embedded responsible management practices relating to the environment, health and safety in our operations. These efforts are coordinated and overseen globally by our Environment, Health, Safety and Corporate Responsibility team. With respect to safety, all safety incidents are monitored by and significant incidents and performance are reported to senior management. 
Our standards and stakeholder expectations
ASMI strives to meet all customer and stakeholder expectations in Corporate Responsibility. Corporate Responsibility expectations have increased in recent years, from customers, shareholders and other stakeholders. To meet these expectations, we align the management of our company with international and industry standards, such as the UN Global Compact Principles (regarding human rights and labor issues) and the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (‘EICC’) Code of Conduct (regarding environmental, health and safety, labor, ethics and management systems). We are regularly evaluated by customers on performance and progress in areas of Corporate Responsibility. Customer audits have been conducted to ensure that expectations are met and we have continually met the expectations across our operations.
The Disclosure Committee, consisting of senior managers 
from various functional areas within the Company, assists the Management Board in overseeing the Company’s disclosure activities. It ensures compliance with applicable disclosure and regulatory requirements arising under Dutch and US law.
EICC compliance
We have chosen the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (‘EICC’) as the framework for ensuring a comprehensive Corporate Responsibility program. The EICC Code of Conduct defines a structure for conducting our business responsibly in all areas of environment, health and safety, labor, ethics and the supply chain. The EICC Code of Conduct is updated periodically, and we are committed to upgrading our management practices to comply with the code as it evolves. Our adherence to the EICC Code of Conduct is the responsibility of every employee. Our Corporate Responsibility Policy and management system helps us to sustain corporate responsibility practices and the EICC Code of Conduct compliance.
ASMI made significant progress in 2013 and 2014 in assuring 
our own compliance with the EICC and the implementation and compliance within our supply chain.
In 2013, we conducted third-party EICC audits of our operations 
and facilities worldwide. This was followed up in May 2013 with a third-party audit of our Singapore manufacturing in which the site was validated as EICC-compliant. We also conducted EICC-ON based self-assessments at all sites in both 2013 and 2014. At the end of 2014, all ASM sites were rated as ‘Low Risk’ in the EICC system. In 2014, we adopted the EICC Code as our Supplier Code of Conduct and communicated to our suppliers the code compliance expectation. We delivered EICC Code and supplier self-assessment training to our critical suppliers. We are actively engaged with
 our critical suppliers around the 
world, measuring, validating, and  ensuring our suppliers are 
continuously improving in EICC compliance. We established monitoring and assessment measures to support our own EICC Code compliance, and drove continuous improvement in our own operations in 2014 through the formation of a global EICC committee. 
OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
POLICY
Our global Corporate Responsibility Policy establishes our 
commitment and expectations regarding the environment, labor, health and safety, ethics and supply chain management. Each of these areas of management is further supported by policies, systems, programs and metrics to ensure that our ongoing progress is related to longer-term objectives. The full text of our CR Policy is available online.OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY POLICY
10
ASMI | CR REPORT 2014
SUPPLY CHAIN CEO MESSAGE AT A GLANCE CR AT ASM ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ABOUT OUR REPORTING
ACHIEVEMENTS IN CORPORATE 
RESPONSIBILITY
Our strategy is to incorporate responsible practices throughout 
our business and our supply chain by adopting standards that reflect global norms and stakeholder expectations, and managing our performance with a robust set of performance indicators. We continually monitor our progress and adjust targets as performance improves. Improved indicators reflect industry standards, potential environmental impacts, and performance areas linked to developing and maintaining a positive improvement trend. 
Our greatest contribution to society is innovation that leads 
to
 faster computing, greater productivity and improved 
energy efficiency of electronics. In 2014, our investments in research and development totaled €58 million. The outcome of our research and development efforts are technological innovations, which can be measured by new patent filings. In 2014, we increased our
 intellectual property holdings with 
66 initial patent filings. For  further information on research 
and development, see  our Annual report. 
Partnerships with universities
As part of our efforts to increase innovation, we continue to pursue and enhance strategic research and development partnerships with universities, industry groups and customers. In 2013, we expanded our partnership with the Interuniversity MicroElectronics Center (‘imec’) in Leuven, Belgium. We have been partnering with imec since 1990. In
 addition, our 
partnership with the University of Helsinki, which supports further development of atomic layer deposition (‘ALD’) pr
ocesses 
and chemistries, which began in 2003, was extended for an additional five-year period. Our support of university and industry programs  also included:•
  Sponsorship of several PhD students at the University of
 Helsinki, and financial support for several other 
university  programs; 
•  Engagement in the Electronics Leaders Group (‘ELG’) in the
 implementation planning of the ‘European Industrial 
Strategic Roadmap for Micro- and Electronic Components and Systems’;
•
  Participation in defining the Multi-annual Strategic Research Innovation Agenda (‘MASRIA’) and Multi-annual Strategic Plan (‘MASP’) for the Electronic Components and Systems for  European Leadership;
•
  Membership in the Semicon Europe Semiconductor Technology Programs Committee;
•
  Continued participation in industry alliances such as SEMI (Semiconductor Equipment Manufacturer Industry) and SEAJ (Semiconductor Equipment Association Japan).PHASE 1
Risk  
Assessment PHASE 2
Training 
and Supplier  
Self-Assessment 
(SAQ)
PHASE 3
Auditing/
Corrective  
ActionsEICC
CODE OF  
CONDUCT
The Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition® (‘EICC’®) 
Code of Conduct establishes standards to ensure that 
working conditions in the electronics industry supply chain are safe, that workers are treated with respect and dignity, and that business operations are environmentally responsible and conducted ethically. 
The code facilitates a credible process for evaluation 
and management of supply chains covering labor, ethics, health and safety, environmental, and sourcing.ACHIEVEMENTS IN CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
11
ASMI | CR REPORT 2014
SUPPLY CHAIN CEO MESSAGE AT A GLANCE CR AT ASM ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ABOUT OUR REPORTING
We also made great strides in recent years in developing 
our talent management framework, reducing injury rates, 
training  employees to embed an ethical culture, and engaging 
critical suppliers in responsible management practices.
We have added a corporate responsibility section to our 
corporate website, including key policies and performance indicators to increase the robustness and transparency of our corporate responsibility practices and performance.
In 2013 and 2014, we have strengthened our corporate 
responsibility organization through key new hires. We added a Global Director of Environmental, Health, Safety (‘EHS’) and Corporate Responsibility
, a Corporate Responsibility (‘CR’) 
Manager, and an additional Regional EHS/CR Manager in our Asia region. These additions will help to drive ASM further to meet the expectations of customers, stakeholders, and society.OBJECTIVES FOR 2015
Building on the progress we made in 2013 and 2014, we
 will make further progress in globalizing and unifying our 
responsib
le business practices, ensuring greater synchronicity 
and effectiveness. Specifically, we are enhancing our ability to manage and measure performance relating to:•
 EICC compliance in our supply chain;
• workforce diversity;
• due diligence for conflict minerals. “ Our greatest contribution 
to society is innovation that leads to faster computing, greater productivity and improved energy efficiency of electronics.”OBJECTIVES FOR 2015
12
ASMI | CR REPORT 2014
SUPPLY CHAIN CEO MESSAGE AT A GLANCE CR AT ASM ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ABOUT OUR REPORTING
ENVIRONMENT
WE ENABLE 
INNOVATION FOR ENERGY MANAGEMENT
Energy is precious. Now our 
innovative technologies are enabling you to manage it yourself with ease. Helping to connect you to a new generation of intelligent devices that intuitively ‘know’ where you
 are. Objects that 
quickly learn how you behave and seamlessly provide what you need without you having to ask for it. Creating greater convenience for you. Conserving valuable resources for everyone. Using intelligence to be kinder to the planet.ENVIRONMENT
13
ASMI | CR REPORT 2014
SUPPLY CHAIN CEO MESSAGE AT A GLANCE CR AT ASM ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ABOUT OUR REPORTING
ENVIRONMENT
We strive to minimize our environmental impact across our operations globally. We believe 
that we can and should make the world a better place by enabling innovations in technology  without harming the environment. Carefully managing water and energy consumption and waste also contributes to lower costs.
OUR APPROACH
Our greatest contribution to eco-efficiency is through our 
technological innovations. Our innovative technology enables people everywhere to create and share more at lower costs, with less energy. The process of driving down computing power energy demands requires that we achieve more calculations per kilowatt hour. This leads to improvements in the energy efficiency of all electronic devices from computers, to phones, to medical devices. Our research and development efforts are therefore supporting greater energy efficiency throughout the world.
As part of our efforts to globalize our management processes, 
in 2013 we successfully attained global certification to the ISO
 14001 Environmental Management System Standard. 
In 2014, we successfully passed the first annual assessment audits with zero non-conformances or corrective actions. The
 global certification supersedes our previous site 
certifications, and further strengthens our commitment to minimize our environmental footprint and constantly strive for continuous improvement in our environmental performance. Four key areas
We set three-year environmental performance targets in 2013 in four key areas that are consistent with proposed environmental measures for the semiconductor industry: Greenhouse Gas (‘GHG’) emissions, water usage, recycled solid waste and unintended discharges. Our GHG emissions are more than 99% from our Scope 2 electrical consumption, and the three-year target is correlated to the implementation of sustained reductions against a 2012 baseline. We reorganized our internal environmental organization in 2012 to provide improved support to all operations globally. Significant continuous improvement opportunities were identified at that time, and our environmental targets reflect the strategy and goals related to those improvement opportunities.
 71%100 %
36%100 %
76%85%
ZEROProgress - End of 2014 Target 2015
Target 2015
Target 2015
Target alwaysProgress - End of 2014
In 2014GHG REDUCTION PROJECTS
WATER USAGE REDUCTION
RECYCLE DIVERSION RATE
Discharge violations 
in 2014
COMPLIANCE WITH DISCHARGE 
REQUIREMENTSZEROOUR APPROACH
14
ASMI | CR REPORT 2014
SUPPLY CHAIN CEO MESSAGE AT A GLANCE CR AT ASM ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ABOUT OUR REPORTING
PERFORMANCE
Our 2013 and 2014 environmental performance shows 
progress against the three-year targets in reducing greenhouse gas (‘GHG’) emissions and water consumption. In 2013, ASMI established a three-year GHG reduction target of 0.80 metric tons of CO
2 equivalents from the implementation 
of sustainable reductions against the 2012 existing operations.  This is equivalent to reducing 5% of our 2012 GHG emissions.  Through 2014, sustaining reductions totaling 3.7% of the 2012 baseline have been implemented, thus approximately 71% toward our three year target. These efficiency targets helped offset ASM’s growth through the same period, and ASM still achieved an overall reduction of 2.2% in greenhouse gas emissions. Our GHG emissions are primarily attributable to Scope 2 electrical consumption.
A 1.9% reduction in total water consumption has been achieved 
globally in 2014 over the 2012 baseline. This flat trend is primarily attributable to the installation of new equipment to support increased research and development offsetting gains made through improved utilization of existing equipment. To reduce associated GHG emissions, the new equipment uses environmental wet scrubbers. We have project plans in place for 2015 to bring water consumption improvement back to target. We believe these reduction efforts will put us back
 on track to meeting the 5% 
reduction target in 2015.
Recycling of solid waste has increased 55% from 2012 to 2014 
to a total recycling achieve of 76% of our solid waste. This increase is attributable to new recycling programs in multiple regions, and partnering with recycling vendors to increase the range of materials recycled. Some regions continue to be constrained by
 available recycling capabilities, but we are 
on target for achieving the 85% target by the end of 2015.
In 2013, ASMI did not incur any penalties or violations for any 
of our environmental discharge permits, and in 2014 a minor 
recordkeeping violation was issued at our Phoenix facility for not properly documenting maintenance on air emission control devices. The situation was promptly addressed and all corrective actions closed.“ We successfully attained  
global certification to the  ISO 14001 Environmental System Standard.”PERFORMANCE
15
ASMI | CR REPORT 2014
SUPPLY CHAIN CEO MESSAGE AT A GLANCE CR AT ASM ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ABOUT OUR REPORTING
2011
Global total2012 2013 2014GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS in mtCO2e
14.00014.50015.00015.50016.000
2011
Global total2012 2013 2014GLOBAL WATER CONSUMPTION in 1,000 m3
50100150200250300In October 2014, ASMI was awarded the Carbon Disclosure 
Project award for ‘Best Improver – Benelux Region’ for our improvement in reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and controls. This exemplifies our commitment and efforts to continue to improve in both our environmental performance and reporting.“ In October 2014, ASMI 
was awarded the Carbon Disclosure Project award for ‘Best Improver – Benelux Region’ for our improvement in reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and controls.”
2014GLOBAL RECYCLE DIVERSION RATE in %
020406080100
2013 201239495974
2011
16
ASMI | CR REPORT 2014
SUPPLY CHAIN CEO MESSAGE AT A GLANCE CR AT ASM ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ABOUT OUR REPORTING
SOCIAL
WE ENABLE 
COMMUNITIESTO CONNECT
We are a better world when we 
stay connected. Our innovations contribute to ensuring that it’s never been simpler for you to stay in touch no matter where you are on the planet. Enabling you to manage your work and social relationships more easily. Bringing you in touch with people who share your particular interests. Providing you with opportunities to crowdsource powerful solutions to everyday issues you face. Ensuring you can mobilize social action on things that matter to you and your world – and make change happen.SOCIAL
17
ASMI | CR REPORT 2014
SUPPLY CHAIN CEO MESSAGE AT A GLANCE CR AT ASM ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ABOUT OUR REPORTING
Our primary contribution to society is technology and process solutions that lead to faster, cheaper, 
more powerful semiconductors. Global demand for semiconductors is exploding, driven by rising numbers of smartphones, tablets, smart vehicles, and even the internet of things. 
OUR APPROACH
In 2014, we continued our investments in research and 
development totaling €64 million, leading to further innovations for improvements in societal productivity. At the end of 2014, 365 ASMI employees, or 22% of
 our staff, were employed in 
research and development. This is an increase from 315 employees in research and development in
 our wafer processing 
business at the end of 2013. For further information on our research and development, please refer to our
 Annual report.
 
PEOPLE
We set and maintain high standards for the way we conduct our
 business and upholding these standards is the responsibility 
of everyone at ASM. Our standards go beyond compliance with all applicable national and international laws and regulations, referencing global norms, industry codes of conduct, and sound business ethics practices. More simply, they are about mutual respect and support, and doing what is right for everyone.
Our Global Standards 
In 2013, we updated our Global Employment Standards to
 ensure consistent application of labor management 
programs  globally. Our standards are fully aligned with the EICC Code of Conduct, which includes standards for responsible management in all areas of labor, health and safety. We have found that the framework EICC provides brings considerable value to our business. 
The EICC Code of Conduct is updated periodically, and ASMI 
is
 committed to upgrading its management practices to comply 
with the code as it evolves. 
Our Global Employment Standards summarize our position 
on key human rights issues and our approach to respecting human rights throughout our global operations and supply chain. The
 standards reflect the principles laid out by the United Nations 
in the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. 
In 2013, we also introduced a Global Leveling Structure, 
which provides an objective categorization of ASMI positions in all 14 countries where we operate. ASMI is able to reward employees in comparable roles in a similar way. In addition, the
 new structure provides employees with clarity about career 
development opportunities, both in the same job family as  well 
as other career streams. Finally, it helps ASM to understand how to support employee development for future roles.SOCIAL365  
ASMI EMPLOYEES WORK  
IN R&D
€64
MILLION INVESTED  IN R&D
“ We introduced a 
Global Leveling Structure in all 14 countries where we operate.”OUR APPROACH
PEOPLE
18
ASMI | CR REPORT 2014
SUPPLY CHAIN CEO MESSAGE AT A GLANCE CR AT ASM ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ABOUT OUR REPORTING
ETHICS
Our Code of Ethics applies to all of our employees worldwide, as 
well as our Supervisory Board and Management Board. Our Code of Ethics is designed to promote honest and ethical conduct, as
 well as timely and accurate disclosure in our  reporting.
The true ethics of our company are not only found in our corporate commitments or policy statements, but rather in the daily behavior of our people. To that end, we are committed to build, and maintain an ethical culture that includes our entire workforce and supply chain. Our ethics training is required for new employees as well as refr
eshed every two years for all employees. 
To continually improve our ethics systems, we instituted an Ethics Committee in 2012 that reports to the CEO and CFO quarterly. In 2013 and 2014, the committee initiated a number of process improvements including:•
  The development and introduction of an Ethics scorecard to define and measure the performance of our ethics systems; 
•
  The introduction of SpeakUp!, an anonymous global reporting program for employees and suppliers to report potential ethics or compliance issues in their own languages;
•
  Expansion of the Ethics Committee with the inclusion of the Director of Global EHS and CR, helping to ensure alignment with the EICC framework and further diversify the committee;
•
 The introduction of the internal ethics homepage on the ASM
 intranet, to improve communication and transparency 
with our workforce.
In 2014 there were zero ethics issues reported to ASMI, neither through internal reporting mechanisms or through the anonymous external SpeakUp! system. In two unrelated instances, the SpeakUp! system was used in 2014 by employees to report concerns. Both cases wer
e investigated and deemed not to involved any ethics concerns or ethics policy violations. Even though both cases did not involve any ethics concerns, the cases helped confirm the SpeakUp! system meets our requirements for providing employee access and availability, reporting and investigation process efficiency, and anonymity protection of the reporting person.
Incidents involving irregularities of a financial nature are covered 
by our Whistleblower Policy, which provides for the reporting of
 alleged violations of the Code of Ethics by the Company’s 
employees or other stakeholders to the Management Board and/or the
 Supervisory Board without any fear of reprisal against 
the individual who reports the violation or irregularity.
Our Anti-Fraud Policy provides specific rules to promote ethical conduct and understanding of legal requirements regarding anti-corruption matters (such as bribery and corruption of governmental officials) and anti-fraud matters (such as maintaining accurate and complete Company records, protection and use of the Company’s r
esources, information 
security and conflicts of interest).PERFORMANCE CRITERIA 2014 TARGET SCOPE 
NEW 
HIRES2014 RESULT
ALL EMPLOYEES
ETHICS 
1 Received and admissible by the Ethics Committee.
2 Discovered via internal controls.Ethics System Improvements introduced  
Article published in Connect newsletter on EthicsANNUAL ETHICS SCORECARD 2014
100%100%100%100%
<2
0
<2
<4
0
<2
2
>3100%100%
98%98%Mandatory sign-off on having received, read, understood and agreed to the Code of EthicsSign-off to be registered in SAPTraining and passing the certiﬁcation exam
Number of employees trained annually (Conﬂict of Interest, Insider Trading, Fraud)Conﬂict of Interest complaints
1)
Insider Trading complaints1)
Fraud complaints1)
Conﬂict of Interests ethical incidents2)
Insider Trading ethical incidents2) 
Fraud ethical incidents2)000000
2
1ETHICS
19
ASMI | CR REPORT 2014
SUPPLY CHAIN CEO MESSAGE AT A GLANCE CR AT ASM ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ABOUT OUR REPORTING
TALENT ATTRACTION AND DEVELOPMENT
To drive innovation and deliver excellence for our customers, 
we must attract, develop, motivate and reward exceptional talent. We create exciting opportunities for rewarding careers in the communities in which we operate, which in turn strengthens both ASMI and the communities as a whole. In 2013 and 2014, we made great strides in developing our talent management framework. To support our global recruitment activities, we also launched a comprehensive careers section on our corporate website in both English and Japanese. In addition, we have expanded our website to include content and information that we know is of interest to potential employees. This includes additional information about our business, corporate responsibility policies and practices, and product and innovation information. In attracting and selecting employees, we use referrals, advertisements, search and selection agencies and social media. Our internships and traineeships, offered as paid positions throughout our organization, have always provided an important pipeline for new hires. We are convinced that internships are valuable both to us and to our interns. Interns are selected based on the quality of their application, with a typical internship period running for six months. In some cases, such as a thesis project, this period may be extended. We strongly believe in offering a career, not a position. We also foster conditions to support personal and career development in a global environment. All new employees are offered support through an onboarding program. After the initial onboarding phase, all employees are supported in their personal and career development through our global Talent Management program. Within ASM Talent Management is a holistic and integrated approach that includes key areas such as Assessment and Identification, Employee Engagement, Succession Planning, and Learning and Development. A Talent Management competency set and a new Talent scorecard was introduced and implemented in 2013. The scorecard contain assessment of performance and potential, mobility, available successors and career opportunities. To support succession planning, we also introduced a pilot phase of a new management-training curriculum in 2013. In 2014, we implemented the ASM Leadership Academy. The Academy defines three different leadership programs as part of the ASM Leadership Academy. The first program, called ‘Accelerate Strength’, is for people who are stepping into their first managerial position. The second program, called ‘Stimulate Others’, focuses on managers and senior managers. And the third program, aimed at directors and senior directors, is called ‘Mobilize Organization’.
FINDING THE RIGHT FIT FOR NEW GRADUATES
To drive innovation, we must find and attract the top 
scientific minds. 
We hire talented PhD graduates in physics, physical 
chemistry, chemistry, materials science and engineering. Employees recruited through ASM’s New College Graduate (‘NCG’) program, are given the resources, freedom and support to succeed in their careers. They begin working at the leading edge, alongside experienced innovators, to resolve some of our toughest scientific challenges. During the first two to three years of their career with us, program participants are based at our facilities in Helsinki, Finland or Leuven, Belgium. They then have opportunities to apply their advanced knowledge in different product areas and at other facilities. 
Shang was a PhD student majoring in Electrical 
Engineering at the University of Nagoya in Japan when he was offered an opportunity to join the NCG program in Finland in 2012. Recently, after getting to know ASMI through his two-year participation in the program, Shang chose to accept an engineering position with ASM Japan. 
“ASM is working at the cutting edge of the 
semiconductor industry. You feel like you are contributing to everybody’s life.” TALENT ATTRACTION AND DEVELOPMENT
20
ASMI | CR REPORT 2014
SUPPLY CHAIN CEO MESSAGE AT A GLANCE CR AT ASM ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ABOUT OUR REPORTING
OUR WORKFORCE
At the end of 2014, we had a total workforce of 1,635 
employees, representing 26 nationalities based in 14 countries. Full time permanent employees accounted for 95% of our workforce, while 5% were employed under flexible contracts.
In 2014, our workforce increase by 15% over 2013. This was 
due in part to our continued focus on innovation. Employees working on R&D increased from 315 in 2013 to 420 in 2014, a 33% increase.
Benchmark data for the high-tech industry shows a voluntary 
turnover rate of 8.7%. Our employee turnover was 6.9% in 2014, which is 2% better than the industry benchmark. 
ASMI respects prevailing labor relations and employment 
practices, the right to be represented by trade unions and other employee organizations within the framework of applicable laws and regulations. At the end of 2014, about 12% of our staff was covered by collective bargaining agreements. This includes 100% of our employees in the Netherlands and People’s Republic of China. 
DIVERSITY
The wide range of perspectives that we gain by hiring and developing talent from a diverse, global labor pool gives us a better understanding of the needs of our customers, suppliers and communities. Diversity in our workforce also helps support innovation. 
The percentage of women is 14% of our workforce which is 
a 1% increase from 2013. The Management Board is currently composed solely of men. While we recognize the importance of diversity, we have not achieved the requisite gender balance for the current Supervisory Board because the pool of suitable candidates, in terms of relevant expertise and industry experience, is very limited at the moment. 
2014
86%
14%1,635
26WORKFORCE
EMPLOYEES
NATIONALITIES
MALE 
FEMALE
14.3%
6.9%TOTAL TURNOVER RATE
VOLUNTARY TURNOVER RATE2011 2012 2013
87%
13%86%
14%87%
13%1,631
311,636
301,503
28
13.2%
10.5%18.0%
10.7%16.0%
7.4%HELPING SOUTH KOREAN EMPLOYEES 
BECOME NON-SMOKERS
In South Korea, smoking rates among men are higher 
than in nearly all other OECD countries. In 2012, about 40% of our employees in South Korea were smokers. 
South Korea has recently introduced stringent  
non-smoking policies, and smoking is now
 allowed 
in fewer and fewer places. To address the widespread societal concerns about smoking in South
 Korea, and 
the health concerns of our employees, we initiated a program to help our employees quit
 the habit. 
Employees are eligible for a flexible smoking cessation benefit, which they can choose to
 use for counseling 
or smoking cessation products. The flexible benefit was doubled during 2013, and was increased substantially yet again in 2014. 
The flexible smoking cessation benefit has not only 
been very popular with our South Korean employees, with 100% of smokers participating at some point in the program, but it has also been very successful. At of the end of 2014, less than 9.5% of our employees identify themselves as smokers, a
 drop of 30% from 2012. 
30%
REDUCTION  
OF SMOKERSOUR WORKFORCE DIVERSITY
21
ASMI | CR REPORT 2014
SUPPLY CHAIN CEO MESSAGE AT A GLANCE CR AT ASM ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ABOUT OUR REPORTING
When this situation changes, the Company shall make all 
reasonable efforts to increase the seats held by women, with a long term goal of 30% of the Supervisory Board seats.
HEALTH AND SAFETY
A healthy culture starts with healthy, safe employees. We believe all workplace injuries are preventable and with management commitment and employee engagement we can achieve a zero injury work environment. We also provide our employees with opportunities to improve their health and wellness. In 2013 and 2014, we have made significant progress on our health and safety systems. We have implemented a global plan aligning our management systems for health and safety, including not only improved safety programs, but increased focus through improved training, performance indicators, and closed loop incident reporting and investigations. 
Our programs focus not only on risk reduction and mitigation, 
but also on empowering employees to stop work whenever they feel unsafe. We introduced a global Stop Work Policy in 2013, which gives every employee the right to call a ‘Stop Work’ when a situation is unsafe or safety is uncertain. This approach sets in motion a system which minimizes risks at initial product and process design, but also at
 the moment of employee interaction 
with the task or procedure.
In 2014, 80 Stop Works were called, which led to 80 safer 
situations, and possibly more through continuous improvement actions following each situation. Demonstrating our commitment to safety across the industry, our key customers have provided support for this policy by communicating the expectation of using
 
Stop Works when our employees are at their production sites. Our Recordable Injury Case Rate (‘RCR’) of 0.35 in 2014 is a significant improvement from 0.54 in 2012 can be attributed to improved focus on prevention programs, training programs and content, incident investigations and the associated closed loop systems for
 responding. 
Another significant indicator of our safety performance is the total number of injuries per employee, which we call the Injury Rate. This is a measure of a first aid or greater injury per every 100 employees. As shown below, we continue to reduce the injury rate, and have set aggressive targets and supporting programs toward that goal.
We care about our employees’ health and offer many different 
options for supporting wellness. At several of our facilities, there
 is a health or wellness committee that helps plan activities 
that support employee health. 
2011
Recordable Injury Rate2012 2013 2014
Injury RateGlobal Injury and RCR RatEs
0,00,51,01,52,0SUPPORTING SENIOR CITIZENS 
IN SOUTH KOREA
In South Korea, our employees reach out in a unique 
but beneficial way to the local community. Employees visit a senior citizen community center in an effort to share the values of good health. With a local nurse and a health consultant, they help check vital signs and blood sugar levels, and shared the result so the citizens could take action if needed. HEALTH AND SAFETY
22
ASMI | CR REPORT 2014
SUPPLY CHAIN CEO MESSAGE AT A GLANCE CR AT ASM ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ABOUT OUR REPORTING
In the US, where more than two thirds of all adults are overweight 
or obese, ASM sponsors health and wellness programs targeting weight loss and control. We also provide additional tools to fight obesity and promote an overall healthy lifestyle in the US, including a fitness reimbursement benefit to promote physical activity. The program allows employees to be reimbursed for a significant portion of membership fees at a fitness facility. In 2014, 236 employees participated in the fitness reimbursement program, a significant increase from 181 participants in 2013. To get our US employees started on the road to fitness through this program, we have partnered with a major fitness center provider to cover the full membership costs during the first year of joining a fitness facility. This ‘no excuses’ approach led to 55 more employees joining fitness facilities in 2014 than 2013. 
Finally, we provide US employees with the opportunity to get an 
annual physical exam at a discounted rate. This benefit is offered in conjunction with health insurance benefits and is for both ASM employees and their co-insured spouse or partner. In
 2014, 
79% of our US employees took advantage of this benefit, which helps employees understand and manage their health and establish relationships with healthcare providers to lead healthy and productive lives. 
In South Korea, there are many sports teams and groups 
organized for and by ASM employees. There is also an annual sports day, where ASM South Korean employees engage in sports activities together. This provides the employees a day to find an interest in a sport, encourages exercise, and supports team building. This tradition has been going on for several years.COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT
Our business has roots in communities in Europe, Asia and the
 US. We have been in Europe since our founding in 1968, 
in the US since 1976 and in Asia since 1982. In the communities 
where we operate, we provide support for programs that are important to our employees and that address unmet community
 needs. 
Portions of Southeast Asia, particularly the Philippines, were devastated in November of 2013 by Typhoon Haiyan, a powerful tropical cyclone and the strongest storm ever recorded at landfall. Our employees in Singapore worked together to raise €1,738 (SG$2,957) to help survivors in the Philippines through Singapore’s Red Cross.
In Tokyo, Japan, we have taken on a voluntary role to help 
protect children in our immediate community
. ASM has 
coordinated with local police and operates as a safe shelter for
 children, where they can come into our offices for protection 
whenever they feel threatened or harassed by anyone on the street. The neighborhood in which we operate has many apartments and homes, and this is just one way we are proud to
 be of service to our neighbors.
At our headquarters in Almere, the Netherlands, we provide unique support for AAP , an animal sanctuary for primates and other animals near our offices. AAP rescues and cares for animals that have been abandoned by private owners, confiscated as a result of illegal trade or the closing of illegal zoos, or have been involved in animal testing or the
 entertainment industry. We have supported AAP’s work 
by collecting and donating used ink and toner cartridges for four
 years, and we look forward to continuing this effort. SUPPORTING AMERICAN MILITARY VETERANS 
AND THEIR FAMILIES
In the US, we sponsored employees participating in 
Pat’s  Run, a race that raises money for a scholarship fund 
for US military veterans and their spouses. The race and the scholarship fund honor the sacrifice of Pat
 Tillman, 
an American football player who joined the US Army following the September 11, 2001 attacks on the US. Tillman was killed in Afghanistan. 
ASM paid entry fees for employees participating in 2013 
and for employees and guests of employees participating in the 2014 race, which was held in April. In 2013, ASM paid €71.78 (US$100) towards entry fees for 5 participating employees. In 2014, ASM paid €1,849.70 (US$2,577) towards entry fees for 64 employees and guests of employees participating in the event.
Part of “Team ASM” at Pat’s Run this year. COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT
23
ASMI | CR REPORT 2014
SUPPLY CHAIN CEO MESSAGE AT A GLANCE CR AT ASM ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ABOUT OUR REPORTING
SUPPLY CHAIN
WE ENABLE  
PEOPLE TO  SHARE AND  CREATE
When we help create advanced 
chips we don’t act alone. We are part of a bigger supply chain. This is why we are committed to doing business following the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition principles to protect our employees, customers, communities, shareholders and environment. That brings opportunities for us to take a lead on issues that matter. Issues like ensuring that our suppliers avoid the use of ‘conflict minerals’. Issues like respecting the human rights of workers globally, regardless of where they work in the ‘supply chain’. SUPPLY CHAIN
24
ASMI | CR REPORT 2014
SUPPLY CHAIN CEO MESSAGE AT A GLANCE CR AT ASM ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ABOUT OUR REPORTING
SUPPLY CHAIN
We hold our suppliers accountable for operating with the the same standards that we expect of 
ourselves. We communicate our expectations clearly, work to  identify and address issues, and share 
our findings and best practices with industry partners. 
OUR APPROACH
We rely on suppliers across a wide range of commodities in 
18 countries around the globe. Our supply chain is diverse, 
not only in geography but also in categories of businesses. 
The main categories of suppliers include contract manufacturers, 
metal fabrication, gas systems, robotics, heaters, electronics, and high-tech chemistries, just to name a few. This diversity offers jobs at all skill levels, opening up opportunities to be a
 part of an exciting industry.
Our Corporate Responsibility Policy includes a commitment to ensure we are conducting business responsibly throughout our supply chain. As global sourcing is expanded to reduce manufacturing costs, the importance of managing risk in our
 supply chain increases. Our near term objective is to 
ensure critical suppliers are in compliance with the EICC Code of Conduct. Through this process, we ensure that worker safety and fairness, environmental responsibility, are managed throughout the supply chain.
In 2013 and 2014, we made substantial progress in engaging 
with the suppliers we deem to be most critical to our business. Suppliers are determined to be critical thr
ough a method 
incorporating criteria such as spend amount, number of similar or alternative suppliers, and the amount of time needed to switch suppliers if
 necessary. “ ASMI is committed to 
conducting business, both in our own operations and throughout our supply chain, 
in a manner consistent with the Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) tenets to protect 
our employees, customers, communities, shareholders and the environment.”
   
  
 UNIVERSITY RESEARCH/R&D INSTITUTES
ASMIMATERIALS
SUPPLIERSSEMICONDUCTOR
suPPLIERSELECTRONICS
INDUSTRYCONSUMERS
FAB EQUIPMENT
SUPPLIERSTHE VALUE CHAIN IN OUR INDUSTRYSUPPLY CHAIN SPEND BY REGION
34%
North America 
59%
Asia Paciﬁc7%
Europe, 
Middle East, AfricaOUR APPROACH
25
ASMI | CR REPORT 2014
SUPPLY CHAIN CEO MESSAGE AT A GLANCE CR AT ASM ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ABOUT OUR REPORTING
EICC SUPPLIER ASSESSMENTS
In September, 2014, we adopted the Electronic Industry 
Citizenship Coalition (‘EICC’) Code of Conduct as our supplier code of conduct. To enhance the overall supply chain accountability to the EICC code and standards, we also follow the EICC recommended risk assessment tools and processes introducing EICC Self-Assessments Questionnaires (‘SAQ’) to our critical suppliers. The SAQ helps to measure and better understand how our suppliers are meeting EICC code and standards, and what gaps remain. Our critical suppliers were introduced, trained and required to complete the self-assessment at the corporate level and at the facility level in 2014 to identify supply chain social, environmental and ethical risks. 
A full analysis of the results of the supplier self-assessments 
was conducted and we began the process of corrective actions and continuous improvement for a path to supply chain EICC code compliance. By adopting the EICC code and establishing sustainable management system per industry standard supplier assessment process, ASMI has set a high targets for our suppliers to assess, measure and comply with. Supplier compliance is overseen by our Global Procurement organization, with guidance from our Global EHS/Corporate Responsibility team. In 2014, 79% of our critical suppliers completed the required SAQ, which is equivalent to 92% of our baseline spend with the top critical suppliers.  CONFLICT MINERALS
‘Conflict minerals’ are those mined in the Democratic Republic of Congo (‘DRC’) or adjoining countries. Profits from the sale of these extracted minerals may directly or indirectly benefit those involved in rebel conflicts and human rights violations. These minerals and the metals created from them (tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold) can make their way into the supply chains for
 products used 
around the world, including the  semiconductor industry.
ASMI is committed to sourcing components and materials from companies that are committed to protecting human rights, upholding ethics, environmental and social sustainability. In 2013, we published our Conflict Minerals Policy and engaged with critical suppliers with Reasonable Country of Origin Inquiries (‘RCOI’). In 2014, ASMI joined the most established and widely recognizable Conflict Free Sourcing Initiative (‘CFSI’) and launched our supply chain due diligence process. We communicated, trained and surveyed our active suppliers and collected supply chain sourcing information on the sourcing of Tin, Tantalum, Tungsten and Gold with the industry standard Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative template – Conflict Minerals Reporting Template (‘CMRT’). 
By actively surveying our supply chain and working with suppliers to identify smelters they are sourcing from, we are establishing the process and traceability to eventually achieve our goal of DRC conflict free with our products and components.
As part of our compliance with US legislation, we filed our first 
Conflict Minerals Report with the US Securities and Exchange Commission in May 2014. The filing and current information on the Due Diligence process and our policy can be found on our website at www.asm.com, in the supply chain section under corporate responsibility.“ ASMI is committed to 
sourcing components and materials from companies that share our values concerning human rights, ethics and environmental and social sustainability. ASMI expects its suppliers to source materials from socially responsible suppliers.”EICC SUPPLIER ASSESSMENTS
CONFLICT MINERALS
26
ASMI | CR REPORT 2014
SUPPLY CHAIN CEO MESSAGE AT A GLANCE CR AT ASM ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ABOUT OUR REPORTING
Reporting is part of ASMI’s ongoing dialogue 
with stakeholders. This report is our first CR report. We also report on our commitment to manage responsibly and on non-financial dimensions of our
 performance in our 
Annual report and on our website. 
As part of our reporting obligations, we have also released 
a Conflict Minerals report, which details our due diligence 
efforts to trace the origins of certain minerals in our supply chain. ASMI’s Conflict Minerals Report can be found on our website.
In our reporting, we strive to provide increased levels of 
transparency about our activities. We
 believe that providing 
robust, comparable information that aligns with global reporting norms increases understanding of how we create value for our shareholders and society. 
We appreciate feedback. If you have thoughts about this report, 
or our reporting in general, please contact us.ABOUT OUR REPORTING
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK“ We believe that providing 
robust, comparable 
information that aligns with global reporting norms increases understanding of how we create value for
 our 
shareholders and society.”
      >        M
ISSION                                              >
        OBJECTIVES       >     VISION   
            STRATEGY        
   >         MANAGEMENT 
BOARD, 
SUPERVISORY 
BOARD AND 
COMMITTEES
VALUES AND 
ETHICS
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
POLICIES &  
REGULATORY 
FRAMEWORKS
MONITORING 
AND INTERNAL 
CONTROLRISK AND  
PERFORMANCE  
MANAGEMENTTRANSPARENCY 
AND  
ACCOUNTABILITYABOUT OUR REPORTING
27
ASMI | CR REPORT 2014
SUPPLY CHAIN CEO MESSAGE AT A GLANCE CR AT ASM ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ABOUT OUR REPORTING
MATERIALITY 
The content of this report reflects our approach to managing our 
business responsibly. Our  approach to responsible management 
involves prioritizing those issues that are most material to  our 
business: issues that either involve the potential for significant risk or opportunity or are critical to key stakeholders. 
The basis of our business is continual innovation and, therefore, 
this is the area that involves the greatest potential risks and opportunities for our business. Our investment in research and development, and our success in attracting and retaining the talented employees necessary for continual innovation, are key material issues.
To maintain and grow our business, it is necessary that we are 
a
 trusted partner for our customers and that we maintain our 
license to operate in the communities in which our facilities are based. Many of the material issues relating to our industry – human rights of workers, health and safety, environmental standards and ethics – are embedded in the EICC Code of Conduct. We have therefore adopted the EICC code as one of the key tools we use to
 prioritize the management and subsequent 
reporting of material issues.STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Understanding and being responsive to stakeholder expectations is an important part of managing responsibly. We seek to engage stakeholders across all our activities to gain their feedback on specific areas of our business. Working in partnerships is crucial to deliver on our vision of delighting customers, employees and shareholders by driving innovation with new technologies and delivering excellence with dependable products. 
We consider our key stakeholder groups to be our customers, 
shareholders, employees, regulators and governments, Non-Government Organizations (‘NGOs’), as
 well as the 
communities where we operate. We monitor trends relating to employee engagement, and conduct exit interviews to further understand employee concerns. In the past 2 years, we
 undertook an extensive customer audit process and 
we met the goals agreed upon and have set continuous 
improvement goals for 2015. 
The EICC Code, which we adhere to and also require 
our suppliers to implement and follow, is the product of a multi-stakeholder process. The EICC solicits feedback from external stakeholders to define its projects and standards, and to gain new perspectives on how the electronics industry and its supply chain can best contribute to social and environmental responsibility
. “ We collaborated with a key 
customer to complete a 
comprehensive audit of our 
EHS and CR systems at all 
of our key sites globally and 
met all agreed upon goals.”MATERIALITY
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
28
ASMI | CR REPORT 2014
SUPPLY CHAIN CEO MESSAGE AT A GLANCE CR AT ASM ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ABOUT OUR REPORTING
Safe Harbor Statement under the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: All matters 
discussed in this business and strategy update, except for any historical data, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. These include, but are not limited to, economic conditions and trends in the semiconductor industry generally and the timing of the industry cycles specifically, currency fluctuations, corporate transactions, financing and liquidity matters, the success of restructurings, the timing of significant orders, market acceptance of new products, competitive factors, litigation involving intellectual property, shareholder and other issues, commercial and economic disruption due to natural disasters, terrorist activity, armed conflict or political instability, epidemics and other risks indicated in the Company’s filings from time to time with the US Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, the Company’s reports on Form 20-F and Form 6-K. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect future developments or circumstances.
