Atmos Energy Corporation 
2019 Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Report
Safety is at the 
center of everything 
we do.
Fiscal 2019 Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Highlights
Environmental
	• Reduced methane emissions by replacing 890 miles of pipe
 • Delivered 10 Bcf of RNG and CNG; equivalent to removing 117,000 cars from the road annually
Social
 • Provided 288,000 training hours to our employees
 • Completed employee survey: 77 percent response rate, 95 percent positive work engagement score
 • Refreshed our inclusion and diversity statement
 • Contributed $5 million to charitable organizations
Governance
 • Formed Board Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, & Safety Committee
 • Adopted our Pipeline Safety Management System
 • Implemented Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS)
 • Improved transparency of our ESG-related communications to all stakeholderstmos Energy believes  
that meeting the  
needs of all stake -
holders is essential. Our 
long-standing guiding prin -
ciples summarize the values, 
beliefs and behaviors we 
embrace as a company: 
Inspire Trust, Be at Our Best, 
Bring Out the Best in Others, 
Make a Difference and Focus 
on the Future . 
  They are the foundation for 
all that we do and support 
the sustainability and environ -
mental, social and governance  
(ESG) considerations in our 
strategic thinking. Over the 
last year, we have made 
tremendous strides in enhancing 
our processes and procedures 
and communicating our results. Work remains as we 
strive for continued improvement. This report and our 
enhanced website will highlight the progress we made 
in fiscal 2019.
 In fiscal 2019, our Board of Directors established  
a new Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, & Safety  
Committee. This committee will oversee our ESG 
programs and processes and assist management with 
setting strategy, establishing goals and formally  
integrating ESG themes into tactical strategies and business 
activities across the company.
 Our commitment to safety remains at the center of 
everything we do. In fiscal 2019, we adopted our Pipeline 
Safety Management System. This system formally  
combines into one comprehensive framework the  
activities we have always performed to safely operate  
our system. Our strong safety culture will benefit from 
this improvement. Additionally, we continued to modernize 
our distribution and transmission systems that our  customers rely on for their natural gas service by  
replacing 890 miles of distribution and transmission pipe. 
 Our employees operate with integrity. We work very 
carefully to attract, develop and retain a diverse work -
force because we know inclusion and diversity foster the 
innovation and employee engagement that support our 
vision of being the safest provider of natural gas services. 
This year we refreshed our inclusion and diversity  
statement to reinforce that belief. 
 We invested almost 288,000 training hours in highly 
qualified gas professionals who are empowered to 
ensure they work in a safe operating environment. And 
we measured how our employees feel about working for 
Atmos Energy. Over 75 percent of our employees  
participated, with a 95 percent overall positive work 
engagement score.
 Long-term sustainability requires that we support the 
communities where we live and work. In fiscal 2019, we 
contributed $5 million to charitable organizations and 
causes. And we worked hard to provide over $6 million in 
financial assistance to over 33,000 households in need.
 Achieving our vision to be the nation’s safest natural 
gas company requires ongoing investments in our 
people, processes and technology while focusing on the 
needs of all our stakeholders. Our employees embrace 
the opportunity and look forward to achieving this vision. 
 Thank you for your interest in Atmos Energy.
Kim R. Cocklin
Executive Chairman of the Board
J. Kevin Akers
President and Chief Executive Officer
November 15, 2019To Our Stakeholders
Kim R. Cocklin
J. Kevin Akers
ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION   |    1A2    |   ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATIONAbout Atmos Energy
Execute Exceptionally Well
Mitigate Risk
Improve Every Day
Adapt Quickly
Develop Employees, Grow Leaders and Shape Culture
Build Relationships and Give Back1
2
3
4
5
6Our vision
We have a bold vision: to be the safest provider of natural gas services, to be  
recognized for exceptional customer service, to be an employer of choice and to 
achieve strong financial results. To achieve this vision, we must operate exceptionally   
well, invest in our employees and infrastructure and enhance our culture. Our 
operating principles are the framework to executing our strategy, mitigating risk and 
sustaining our operating and financial performance.
Our values
Our Atmospirit Principles are the foundation of what we do every day. They 
incorporate the importance of quality, service, respecting diversity and ethics in what 
we do every day as a company for our employees, customers, the communities in 
which we operate and the environment.
 Inspire Trust
 Be at Our Best 
 Bring Out the Best in Others
 Make a Difference
 Focus on the FutureATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION   |    3Safety
  • Continue to modernize our system
  • Invest in people, processes and technology to enhance safety
  • Strive for zero incidents
Employees
  • Attract and retain employees committed to our safety culture
  • Train and provide tools so employees are well-prepared to 
   perform their work
  • Provide opportunities for career development and advancement
Environment
  • Commitment to reduce methane emissions by 50 percent by 2035
  • Continue to reduce methane emissions through system 
   monitoring and replacement
  • Be a good steward of the environment
Communities  
  • Provide excellent customer service
  • Communicate transparently with all stakeholders
  • Donate time and resources to improve the communities in 
   which we operate
Governance
  • Maintain well-qualified, diverse and active board of directors
  • Foster a culture that mitigates risk
  • Promote a diverse and inclusive workforceOur Commitments
Safety Is Our Business
We live and work in the communities we serve
4    |   ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION
Safety Is Our Business
We live and work in the communities we serve
ith a commitment to being the safest provider of natural gas, we are doing our part to modenize the nation’s 
natural gas delivery network to ensure the communities where we live and work remain safe. Over the  
last 10 years, we spent almost $10 billion to modernize our pipeline infrastructure. Additionally, we plan to 
spend $10 billion to $11 billion through 2024 to make our safe system even safer.
Infrastructure replacement
We use a risk-based model to prioritize our pipeline replacement projects that includes factors such as age of pipe, 
materials, leak history, geology and location. Many of our pipeline replacement projects are submitted to our regulators 
before we start our work. As the miles of pipe replaced has increased, our system has become more modern.
ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION   |    5 Miles Percent
Pre-1970 3,001 44%
Post-1970 3,758 56%Age of Transmission Pipe Transmission Miles Replacement Rate
FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19Miles180
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
Source: 2018 DOT ReportCY2018 Miles Percent
Pre-1970 25,681 37%
Post-1970 44,188 63%Age of Distribution Pipe Distribution Miles Replacement Rate
FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19
Industry Identified Materials – Bare Steel, Cast Iron, Vintage Plastics
Other Risk-Based MaterialsMiles800
600
400
200
0
Source: 2018 DOT ReportCY2018WContinuous monitoring of our system 
We continuously monitor our system, repair leaks and operate an emergency hotline 24 hours day, seven days a week to 
respond to and investigate reports of natural gas leaks. We use advanced technologies to inspect distribution lines and 
monitor our right-of-ways to ensure the integrity of our assets. While these newer technologies have identified more leaks, 
they have also enabled us to repair more leaks, which makes our system safer and more environmentally responsible. 
6    |   ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION21 percent of transmission lines inspected 
Our transmission systems are monitored through a combination  
of technologically advanced in-line inspection tools, direct  
assessments and pressure tests. As we modernize our transmission 
system, we are expanding our ability to perform in-line inspections.   
At the end of fiscal 2019, approximately 65 percent of our system 
and 66 percent of our system in high consequence areas were 
capable of in-line inspection. The chart at left shows how we 
monitored 21 percent of our 6,700 miles of transmission pipe in 
fiscal 2019.CY2014 CY2015 CY2016 CY2017 CY201820,688
3,54722,767 22,54021,58427,890Distribution System Leaks Repaired In Thousands25
20
15
10
0Industry Identified Materials Are Being Replaced
Cast Iron
Vintage Plastics 
Bare Steel
Coated Steel
PlasticDistribution Pipeline Material
 Miles Percent
In-Line Inspection 862 60%
Direct Assessment 322 23%
Pressure Test 240 17%Miles of Transmission Pipe TestedCY2013
FY2019CY2018
Leaks Repaired
Active Leaks3,844 3,976 3,997 7,924
Source: DOT ReportsSource: DOT ReportsATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION   |    78    |   ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATIONPipeline safety management system 
Atmos Energy has always had processes and procedures 
in place to ensure the safety of our distribution and 
transmission network. During fiscal 2019, we adopted 
our Pipeline Safety Management System (PSMS), which 
formally documents our processes and procedures under 
a systematic and structured framework that builds on 
our established pipeline safety programs. PSMS was 
developed by the American Petroleum Institute and is 
a recommended practice for the pipeline industry. All 
Atmos Energy employees play a role in our PSMS through 
identification, prevention and remediation of operational 
safety risks. Commitment to cybersecurity
Information technology security is critical to our ability 
to keep our assets operating safely and our information 
secure. We are dedicated to keeping sensitive information 
about our employees, customers, vendors and company 
secure. We have a continuous cycle of process improve-
ment to help us respond to the changing cybersecurity 
landscape. We have employees who are cybersecurity 
experts who work with the industry and law enforcement to 
keep ahead of the ever-changing cybersecurity landscape. 
Additionally, we continuously educate our employees 
on their role in being diligent to ensure that our security 
is not breached. While there are continuous attacks on 
corporate information technology systems, we have not 
experienced a significant breach.Leadership and 
Management 
CommitmentContinuous
Improvement
Management
ReviewEmergency
Preparedness
and Response
Operational 
Controls
Competence
Awareness
and training
Documentation 
and Record 
Keeping
Stakeholder
EngagementPLAN
CHECKACT DORisk ManagementInputs
OutputsIncident Investigation, Evaluation
and Lessons Learned
Safety AssuranceOur Pipeline Safety Management System Mitigates RiskATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION   |    7Preventing third-party damage
The most common cause of hazardous natural gas leaks on 
our system is digging or construction that damages natural 
gas lines. In fact, more than 50 percent of our hazardous 
leaks in fiscal 2019 were caused by excavation damage.In fiscal 2019, we implemented several educational  
campaigns to underscore the importance of safe digging. 
April is National Safe Digging Month. During the month, 
social media posts appeared on 140,000 Facebook, 
Twitter and Instagram timelines. We also produced a 
video to encourage the public to call 811 before you 
dig. This video has been viewed by more than 47,000 
YouTube viewers. It was so effective that it was named the 
best external safety awareness video by the American Gas 
Association. Finally, our employees participated in 10  
broadcast and TV appearances that reached more than  
5 million people during the month.
 This effort produced tangible benefits during fiscal 
2019. Although the number of line locates increased 
nearly 9 percent, the number of damages on our system  
decreased almost 5 percent.15   Reportable pipeline incidents*
0   Corrective action orders
18   Safety-related condition reports
*10 related to third-party damageCalendar 2018 Federal Reports
ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION   |    9FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY20195,3221,909,0762,108,2062,145,0632,130,5492.313,456
5,668 5,736 6,020 5,733Number of Damages vs. Line Locates
Number of Line Locates Number of DamagesDuring fiscal 2019, the number of damages 
on our system decreased almost 5%.8    |   ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION
There’s safety in partnerships.
We own and operate over 75,000 miles of natural gas pipelines, serving some of the fastest growing communities in 
the country. Safely owning, operating and modernizing such a dynamic system requires strong partnerships between 
the communities we serve, the regulators who oversee our activities and the investors and creditors who ensure we 
have the financial resources necessary to continue to invest in our system.
10 |   ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATIONGus the Gopher and Rosie the Skunk are our 
natural gas safety ambassadors.
Partnering with the public
We have robust, multichannel safety outreach efforts through our public awareness campaigns, community involvement and 
continued relationships with regulators, city leaders and first responders. We communicate natural gas safety information  
to our customers and the public through bill inserts, on-hold messaging, signage, customer emails and social media 
campaigns. In fiscal 2 019, our safety outreach efforts received 225 million impressions.
 Our safety mascots, Gus the Gopher and Rosie the Skunk, actively promote calling 81 1 before digging and explain 
what to do if a gas leak is suspected. We also partner with fire departments and other first responders to provide  
a seamless response in the event of a natural gas emergency. Our First Responder Natural Gas Workshops provide 
emergency response teams with detailed information and procedures to safely work around natural gas.
Gus & Rosie
ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION   |  1112 |   ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATIONNew technologies keep everyone safer.
Partnering with the industry
At Atmos Energy, we leverage new technologies and 
practices to keep our employees, our distribution, trans-
portation and storage system and the public safe. We 
use multiple technologies to perform leak surveys, some 
of which include infrared-based leak detection, laser- 
based technologies and new technologies that have been 
developed for our industry. We are always working with industry and technology partners to develop and evaluate 
new technologies to enhance safety. For years we have 
partnered with the Gas Technology Institute (GTI), which 
develops technology-based solutions for the natural gas 
industry. We are among the early participants in our  
industry to evaluate technologies that have the potential to 
be adopted by our business. This partnership has produced  
tools we are incorporating into our daily processes, such 
as LocusView , a mobile technology that captures critical 
infrastructure data during construction and operations.
Partnering with suppliers
 
We partner with best-in-class suppliers who share our 
values while providing exceptional service and quality. We 
have a tradition of supporting small and diverse businesses  
across the communities we serve. In fact, at least 28 per-
cent of our budget has been spent with small and diverse 
businesses each of the last three years, and 99 percent of 
our vendors are headquartered in the United States.
 Since we rely extensively on contractors to perform our 
system modernization work, we work with contractors who 
share the same commitment to safety. We have robust 
systems to ensure that contractors are qualified to perform 
the work and we monitor the work to ensure it is completed  
to our high standards.
We are proud of the many success stories among our key suppliers. One involves a small, woman-owned business that provides 
pipeline inspection and operator training services. Over the course of a business relationship that has spanned more than 10 
years, that company’s revenues from Atmos Energy contracts 
have grown over 4,000 percent. This extraordinary success 
demonstrates not only our commitment to safety and reliability, 
but also our dedication to providing economic opportunities in 
the communities we serve. That dedication also includes the 
support of hiring initiatives that help ensure our communities’ 
local suppliers and contractors have an opportunity to work with  
us – such as the Mississippi Public Service Commission “Hire 
Mississippi” program which aims to boost economic develop-
ment and increase employment in the state.
Supplier Success
ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION   |  13Going the extra mile for customers
Among the core values that make our company sustain-
able is our dedication to exceptional customer service. 
We invest in technologies that enable our customers to 
efficiently interact with us, at times that are convenient  
for them.
 Customers certainly appreciate our relentless drive to 
keep them safe. But they also notice that we go out of 
our way to make every customer’s experience a pleasant 
one. We’re friendly and efficient, and we respond to their 
needs quickly.
 We handled 3.6 million calls in FY19. Whether speaking 
with an agent or scheduling a service technician, customers  
easily get what they need from our Customer Contact 
Centers. Our customer surveys of over 100,000 customers 
showed satisfaction is high. 98% of customers satisfied with call agents
 98% of customers satisfied with on-site technicians
 93% overall satisfaction with Atmos Energy
 Our advanced customer service system understands 
our customers’ needs and provides flexibility in how they 
interact with us. These efforts have resulted in bills that 
are easier to read and a convenient, user-friendly online 
Account Center. Since 2015, the number of customers 
handling their accounts online has increased by 42  
percent, while the number of calls to our Customer Contact  
Centers has decreased. When customers do use our call 
center, we score high marks on customer satisfaction.
 Our 24/7 online Account Center has made it easier  
for do-it-yourself customers, providing flexibility to our 
customers to interact with us when it is convenient for them.
Our Employees Execute Our Strategy
Our most important investment
14 |   ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION
Our Employees Execute Our Strategy
Our most important investment
ur employees are our greatest asset and our most important investment. We provide our employees the training 
and tools to be successful and build their careers at Atmos Energy. Because of our commitment to our  
employees, our employee satisfaction is high and voluntary turnover is 4 percent. This provides us the dedicated 
and focused workforce necessary to achieve our vision of being the safest provider of natural gas services.
Recent employee survey results:
77%   Employee participation 
86% Overall leadership effectiveness score 
95%   Overall work engagement score 
ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION   |  15We provide employees a variety of training opportunities from classroom 
team building to hands-on technical training. Several examples include:
We also want our employees to take their education as far as they desire, 
and we help them do so through the Robert W. Best Education Assistance 
Program, which provides support for employees to work toward advanced 
technical training or a college degree. Atmos Energy Essentials – New Hire Culture Training
 Gas Essentials – Technical Training
 Customer Service Training
Over the last five years, 
we’ve provided our employees 
more than $1 million in 
education assistance .
$1MO16 |   ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATIONRespect for others is core to our culture 
and to Atmospirit.
Diversity
We value the diversity in our leadership and workforce and are committed to having a workforce that reflects the diversity 
of each of the 1,410 unique communities we serve. In 2019 we refreshed our Diversity Statement to reinforce this  
commitment. We are constantly striving to enhance our talent pipeline by recruiting and hiring the best candidates.  
Respect for others is core to our culture and to Atmospirit. When Wesley Hawley first joined Atmos Energy as a meter reader in 2002, he had 
just graduated high school and was focused on gaining as much experience as possible  
to broaden his skills. After being elevated to the role of service technician a few years 
later, Wes began courses to earn his associate degree with support from the Robert 
W. Best Education Assistance Program, an Atmos Energy plan that reimburses employee 
education expenses including registration fees, tuition and textbooks. As his career 
advanced within the organization to roles including safety specialist, operations  
supervisor and operations manager, Wes’ manager encouraged him to continue his  
education even further by also earning his bachelor’s degree – once again leveraging  
the education assistance program. Today, looking back on more than 17 years of 
service with the company, Wes appreciates the opportunities made available to him  
for advancement within the organization as well as outside of it, including two 
degrees earned with support from the Robert W. Best Education Assistance Program.Education Assistance
Wesley Hawley
New Hire Demographics:
44.9%   Women or Minorities New Hires 
29.6%  Women or Minorities Senior Engineers
31.9 %  Women or Minorities Entry-Level Engineers ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION   |  17
A city built for training
We are proud of our 51 ,000-sqft. state-of-the-art Charles K. Vaughan Center training facility in Plano, Texas, which 
opened its doors in 2010. It’s home to Gas City, where employees receive hands-on technical training from full-time 
experienced trainers. All Atmos Energy operations employees who are new to their roles spend weeks at Gas City learning 
all aspects of their job and perfecting their skills. We also hold natural gas safety events for first responders, community 
officials and schoolchildren at the center.
23 Percent Reduction in OSHA Rate of Recordable Injuries 
 0 1 2 3 4 5 62014
2018
2014
2018
2014
2018 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0
 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.8OSHA – Recordable Injury Rate (per 200,000 hours worked)
DART – Days Away | Restricted Duty | Transfer Injury Rate (per 200,000 hours worked)
RMVC – Reportable Motor Vehicle Collision Rate (per 1,000,000 miles driven)Field employees spend about 20 percent of their time in the classroom plus receive training and education on the job. They  
also receive extensive training in the safest ways to work and in keeping customers and communities safe. As a company, 
we provided 91,000 hours of safety training in fiscal 2019 and over 1.3 million hours since our training center opened in 
2010. Our improved safety rates reflect the benefit of our training.The Environment
Protecting people, places and our planet
18 |   ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION
The Environment
Protecting people, places and our planet
e deliver the nation’s most abu ndant, affordable, efficie nt and cleanest fossil fuel. Thanks to advances 
in technology, America’s supply of natural gas will likely meet our energy needs for the next 100 
years. D elivering this vital energy resource safely, reliably and  with minimal impact is o ur top priority.
50 percent reduction in methane emissions by 2035
In addition to enhancing the safety of our system, our pipeline replacement program is also contributing to a reduction 
in methane emissions. Over the past five years, we have replaced 3,500 miles of pipe. In that time, we’ve decreased our inventory of cast iron and bare steel mains by over 17 percent. Our goal is to reduce methane emissions 50 percent by 2035 through system modernization.
ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION   |  19Natural gas is efficient. From extraction to delivery, natural gas is 91% energy efficient.
Electric transmission and generation is 36% energy efficient.
Switching from coal to natural gas to generate electricity reduces  greenhouse gas emissions
by an average of 53%.
Local gas distribution systems are estimated to account for only 0. 1%  natural gas emissions. Since 1990,
 emissions from gas distribution are down 74%.1
2
3Natural Gas FactsW20 |   ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATIONSafely operating our system protects 
our environment 
Atmos Energy uses a wide variety of practices in its day-
to-day operations to safely operate the company and  
to prevent or reduce methane emissions. One of the most  
important practices is the continuous monitoring of  
our system .
Leak detection technologies 
Atmos Energy uses state-of-the-art instrumentation for 
leak detection, monitoring and leak grading to enhance 
safety for the public, our customers and employees, while 
also protecting the environment. We review advances in 
technology as they are brought to market and incorporate 
them when appropriate for our leak detection and moni -
toring efforts. Advanced mobile leak detection technology  
includes Cavity Ring-Down Spectroscopy (CRDS), which 
surveys our distribution system and is 1,000 times more 
sensitive than legacy technologies. As of September 30, 
2019, Atmos Energy had 1 1 advanced mobile leak 
detection technology units mounted and operating in 
vehicles, with plans to add two more within the next year. 
 Additional leak detection technologies used:
  Remote Methane Leak Detection (Laser-based gas 
detector – RMLD)
 Flame Ionization Detector (FID) 
 Combustible Gas Indicator (CGI) 
 Optical Methane Detector (OMD) 
 Forward Looking Infrared Camera (FLIR) 
To monitor compressors and storage fields, we use FLIR 
cameras as well as RMLD, FID and CGI equipment. 
RMLD, CGI, CRDS and OMD equipment is used to 
conduct inspections and surveys of buried natural gas 
distribution and transmission pipelines. The equipment  
used to perform leak surveys is dependent on several  
different criteria, including but not limited to safety, 
weather, instrument capabilities, location, application and 
operating experience.
 Other practices we use to prevent or reduce methane emissions include:
  Drawing down transmission line pressure when repairing or working on the pipelines to reduce natural  
gas released to the atmosphere.
 Rerouting gas to minimize or prevent venting or blowdowns.
 Installing pipeline stopples and bypasses as necessary to maintain operations and minimize extent of blowdown.
 Using flares to combust methane instead of releasing methane to the atmosphere.Atmos Energy operates 11 vehicle-mounted 
advanced mobile leak detection units.ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION   |  2122 |   ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATIONReductions in carbon dioxide emissions from renewable natural 
gas and natural gas delivered by Atmos Energy are the equivalent 
of removing more than 1 17 ,000  cars from the road annually.
Conservation at Atmos Energy
In addition to reducing methane emissions, conserving natural resources is just as important to 
Atmos Energy.
    We practice sustainable facility designs using responsible materials and efficient building 
operations. We are proud to have built nine LEED-certified buildings, with four more underway 
as of September 30, 2019. Due to the sustainable design of our buildings, we have reduced our 
environmental footprint by approximately 541 metric tons of carbon dioxide, 4,868 grams  
of sulfur dioxide and 2,372 grams of nitrous oxide per year. Additionally, we estimate that our 
LEED-certified buildings reduce water usage by about 50 to 60 percent annually.
 We are among the industry leaders in promoting the use of electronic billing. Over 42 percent of our customers utilize 
our electronic billing feature. Based on a 2019 American Gas Association/Edison Electric Institute benchmarking survey, 
we have the highest electronic billing penetration rate in the natural gas distribution sector and the fourth highest for all 
gas, electric and combination utilities. Since we introduced this feature, our customers have saved $46 million. It has saved 
10,000 trees, which is equivalent to preserving 160 acres of forest land.*
*Based on information found at http://www.sbcounty.gov/calmast/sbc/html/healthy_forest.asp
Helping Customers Conserve
We are also helping our customers conserve. In fiscal 2019, we delivered almost 5 Bcf of natural gas to customers for use in their 
compressed natural gas fleets and delivered an additional 5 Bcf of renewable natural gas. Combined, the associated reductions 
in carbon dioxide emissions are the equivalent of removing more than 117,000 cars from the road annually.
 
42% e-bill adoption rate has preserved 10,000  trees.ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION   |  23Since 2014, Atmos Energy 
has partnered with Red 
Sun Farms. Red Sun Farms 
grows tomatoes and ships 
its fresh produce up and 
down the East Coast all year long. The use of natural  
gas has allowed Red Sun to reduce its heating costs 
relative to using propane or oil to heat its boilers. 
Additionally, the natural gas Atmos Energy provides 
is a clean source of CO2 that is used to nourish the 
plants. Red Sun currently operates 18 acres growing  
9 million panels of tomatoes a year, but there is an 
opportunity to expand to 48 acres and produce up 
to 2.5 million pounds of tomatoes a year.
Waste Management Partnership
One customer makes a difference. 513,257 Mcf is equivalent to:
3, 6 0 5, 3 21, 748  smartphones charged 
30,910,200  pounds of coal burned
6 9,13 0, 3 2 2 miles driven by an average passenger vehicle 
Atmos Energy is  
partnering with 
Waste Management 
to provide CNG to 
fuel its trash collection  
fleet. We are currently providing CNG to Waste  
Management at locations in Colorado, Kansas, 
Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas. Over the past 12 
months Atmos Energy has provided over 513,257 Mcf 
to Waste Management.
Red Sun Farms PartnershipCommunity
Making a difference in the communities we serve
24 |   ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION
Community
Making a difference in the communities we serve
e build strong partnerships with the communities we serve by building natural gas safety awareness, 
communicating planned and active projects in their neighborhoods and by donating time and financial 
support to community partners. In fiscal 2019, we increased our social media communications and have 
significantly increased the number of followers. Through social media we keep the public informed and promote our 
safety message. Additionally, this year we began providing maps down to the street level on our website that show the 
current pipe replacement projects underway and planned in all the neighborhoods.
Giving back where we operate
Both Atmos Energy and our employees contribute significant time and financial support to the communities in which we 
live and work. During fiscal 2019, we donated $5 million to communities to support education, health and community 
welfare. Over the past five years we have donated $24 million. On average, employees spend more than 35,000 hours 
annually donating their time and skills to cities and towns in which they live.
ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION   |  25How we give:
$24 million  donated over the last five years 
35,000  employee volunteer hours
70%  of employees report giving back to their communities 
Community Welfare – 70% 
Education – 24%
Health – 6%Breakout of Dollars Contributed by Type
FY2019WHabitat for Humanity
Atmos Energy has a long-standing collaboration with 
Habitat for Humanity, the nonprofit organization that 
helps families build and improve places to call home. 
Over the years we have donated significant funds and 
employees have volunteered countless hours to help 
build homes in our Mid-Tex, Mississippi, West Texas,  
Kentucky/Mid-States and Colorado-Kansas divisions. 
  One example of our partnership is in the Broadmoor 
District of Jackson, Miss., which is home to a neighbor -
hood established in the 1940s for soldiers returning from 
World War II. Unfortunately, this once vibrant area of 
town has faded over time, so we are happy to support a Habitat for Humanity initiative to build or restore 100 
houses in Broadmoor over the next five years.
  When it comes to the intersection of energy efficiency 
and affordability, our recent partnership with Habitat 
for Humanity of Montezuma County, Colo., is a ground -
breaking collaboration. Atmos Energy contributed 
$50,000 to the nonprofit’s 2020 project, which will use 
clean-burning natural gas appliances alongside solar 
power, energy-efficient insulation and other sustainable 
building materials. Recognizing that affordable housing 
starts with affordable energy, Atmos Energy is proud to 
support Habitat for Humanity and help play a critical role 
in building strong and stable communities.
26 |   ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION
 
2019 contribution to Habitat for Humanity:  $68,700 Living, working and raising families in the communities 
we serve makes them our communities. And we embrace 
our role there. We have a long history of contributing to 
charitable organizations that offer community services 
in the areas we care most about: health , education  and 
community development . We partner with agencies 
such as United Way and The Salvation Army; during our annual Week of Giving campaign, we offer our employees 
the opportunity to make a company-matched donation 
that supports the organization of their choice.
 We also host Science, Technology, Engineering and 
Math (STEM) camps for schools and youth organizations,  
where we share information about energy industry careers.
ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION   |  27We work with hundreds of community action agencies to help 
customers pay their bills and stay warm.
Some of Our Community Partners
28 |   ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATIONATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION   |  29Average Monthly Customer Bills
Although we invested 
almost $10 billion 
over the last 10 years, 
our average monthly 
bill is among the most 
affordable utility bill in 
the household.
 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19
Period EndingIn Dollars60
50
40
30
20$49
Sharing the Warmth
When the temperature drops, Atmos Energy generosity 
kicks in to help our most vulnerable customers. We work 
with hundreds of community action agencies to help 
customers pay their bills and stay warm. Our Share the 
Warmth program, supported by donations from customers 
and employees, distributes funds to local nonprofit 
organizations to help pay natural gas bills for eligible 
customers. We also participate in the federally funded 
Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program, which 
also helps meet the energy needs of underserved families. $49 Natural Gas
 $107 Cable/Satellite TV (Leichtman Research Group)
 $116 Water (circleofblue.org)
 $118 Electric (eia.gov)
 $157 Cell Phone (J.D. Power)Average Monthly Utility Bills
Donations, assistance and partners 2019:
$5,846,671  provided through LIHEAP 
33,234 households assisted through our energy assistance programs
404  number of community agencies supported Strong Corporate Governance
Is core to accomplishing our vision
t Atmos Energy, strong corporate governance is core to our culture and our values. It supports our vision to be 
the safest provider of natural gas services, it mitigates risk, and is the foundation of our long-term corporate 
sustainability effort. We expect everyone to take responsibility for doing what is right for all stakeholders. This 
means conducting business ethically, instilling accountability in our employees and working with business partners who 
share our high standards and principles.
  We are committed to continuous improvement as we work to achieve our vision of being the safest provider of natural 
gas. We provide an anonymous Compliance Helpline for employees, contractors and the public to give feedback or 
make recommendations for improvements in safety, risk identification, prevention and mitigation at:
  • 866.543.4065 or
  • www.compliancehelpline.com/welcomeAtmosEnergy.jsp
ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION   |  31Corporate governance highlights
Board Practices
l			Independent lead director
l			Separation of board chair and CEO
l			10 of 14 directors are independent
l			Annual election of all directors
l			Regular executive sessions of independent directors
l			Comprehensive and strategic risk oversight
l			Annual board and committee evaluations
Shareholder Matters
l			Robust shareholder engagement
l			Annual say-on-pay voting
l			Majority voting for director elections
l			No poison pill defense
Other Governance Practices
l			Executive and director stock ownership guidelines
l			Clawback policy
l			Prohibition on hedging or pledging stock
A 
  
  Leading with integrity
Atmos Energy’s Code of Conduct begins with our deep 
commitment to fairness, mutual respect and participation.  
We are committed to abide by the letter and spirit of all 
laws and regulations that apply to our business. These 
guidelines apply to all of us, and remind us that what we 
do every day and how we do it are critically important  
to help us achieve our vision of being the safest provider 
of natural gas services.
  In 2019, 100 percent of employees completed our 
annual Code of Conduct training. Our Code of Conduct 
training reinforces how to identify and deal with ethical 
issues such as conflicts of interest, gifts and entertainment, 
use of confidential information, fair dealing, protection 
of corporate assets, compliance with rules and regulations, 
and safety.
32 |   ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATIONIn fiscal 2019, 100% of our employees completed 
Code of Conduct training.
Key Points
71% Independent Board Members
43% Joined within 5 years
29% Women and Minorities 
We have a diverse, well-qualified board 
that has a balance between tenured and 
newer members.
Corporate Governance Guidelines assist the Board 
in exercising its responsibilities to the Company and our 
shareholders by providing a framework under which the 
Board may conduct business.
 
Insider Trading Prevention Program governs the 
purchase or sale of company securities by our directors 
and employees, especially when any material nonpub-
lic information relating to the Company may be in the 
possession of any director or employee.
 
 Political Activities Policy provides guidelines on  
company lobbying and political spending activities as 
well as engagement by our employees in the overall 
political process.
 
Risk Management and Compliance Committee  
meets regularly and oversees our safety practices and 
cybersecurity.
 
Diversity Statement underscores our commitment 
to a diverse workforce that reflects the diversity of the 
approximately 1 ,400 communities we serve and a work 
environment where all employees feel included with the 
opportunity to be at their best every day.   If you have suggestions, recommendations, questions, or 
have witnessed a potential violation of the Code of Conduct, 
you may contact Atmos Energy’s Compliance Helpline.  
All submissions to the Compliance Helpline are treated  
confidentially and we will not tolerate retaliation against 
anyone for submitting a concern or recommendation.
 In addition to our Code of Conduct, our Board has 
adopted several policies and guidelines that demon-
strate our commitment to strong corporate governance 
and diversity.
Board of Directors
Our Board’s leadership structure is designed to ensure 
independent oversight of corporate management and key 
issues related to strategy and risk. Our lead director is 
independent. All standing board committees are chaired 
by independent directors. Additionally, independent directors  
regularly hold executive sessions of the board outside 
the presence of the executive chairman, the president 
and CEO or any other company employee. Directors 
serve one-year terms upon election and are reelected to 
subsequent one-year terms by a shareholder vote at the 
annual shareholders meeting. The Board has a mandatory  
retirement age of 75, with members serving through the 
annual meeting following their 75th birthday.Board Tenure
< 5 years
5-10 years10-15 years
> 15 years21.4%
42.9%
7.1%28.6%
ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION   |  33 Board members are nominated annually based on their  
diversity of skills, background, financial literacy, availabili-
ty, independence and other relevant leadership qualities.
 We believe our board has the right balance of tenure, 
with 50 percent of the board members with 10-plus years 
of experience on the board, providing consistency and  
historical perspective, and 43 percent with less than five years  
of experience bringing new ideas and a fresh perspective.
Audit Committee
Our Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the 
risks associated with financial and accounting matters, 
including compliance with all legal and regulatory  
requirements, and internal controls over financial  
reporting. Additionally, the Audit Committee has oversight 
responsibility for overall business risk management  
process, including the identification, assessment, mitigation  
and monitoring of key business risks including cyber- 
security on a company-wide basis. All members of the 
Audit Committee have strong financial backgrounds and 
are independent.
Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability , 
& Safety Board Committee
At Atmos Energy, our commitment to corporate respon-
sibility and long-term sustainability starts with our board 
of directors. In fiscal 2019, we established the Corporate 
Responsibility, Sustainability, & Safety Board Committee.  
The committee is responsible for monitoring current and 
emerging political, social action, public policy and envi-
ronmental issues that may materially affect business  
operation. Additionally, the committee considers sustainable  
growth strategies to preserve and enhance long-term 
value of financial, environmental and social capital.  
Specifically, the committee oversees the following:  
 • Ethical and responsible business practices
 • Corporate culture and equality
 • Community relations
 • Employee and public safety
 • Environmental stewardship
Succession planning
Succession planning is an extensive annual process at 
Atmos Energy. It begins with our board and goes down 
through all levels of the organization to ensure that we 
are building a strong bench of talent. Not only is talent 
identified, but potential paths of development are dis-
cussed to ensure that employees have an opportunity to 
build their skills and are well-prepared for future roles. 
We have a long history of promoting our senior lead-
ership from within the organization. The seamless CEO 
transition in October 2019 is just one of many successful 
examples of our succession planning process. Leadership
Our Management Committee is comprised of five senior 
leaders responsible for the execution of company strategy 
as approved by the Board. The Management Committee 
meets regularly to actively monitor operations and  
financial performance; ensure compliance with policies, 
procedures and ethical business practices; and implement  
strategy to achieve sustainable, long-term performance.
 Additionally, we have a strong and diverse group of 
corporate officers. We have a long history of developing 
talent and promoting from within the organization. Over 
the past five years women and minorities have accounted 
for 64 percent of the officer appointments, including the 
promotion of two women to division president.
 20% Women and Minorities on Management 
 Committee
 28% Women and Minorities as Officers
 64% of recent leadership appointments are  
 Women and Minorities
 
Risk mitigation
In fiscal 2018, the Risk Management and Compliance 
Committee (RMCC) was formed to ensure that policies, 
procedures and practices are in place for the management  
of material risks across the organization. The RMCC 
reports directly to our Management Committee. Charter 
members include our SVP, General Counsel and  
Corporate Secretary, VP and Chief Information Officer, 
VP of Pipeline Safety, VP Governmental and Public Affairs 
and Director of Security and Risk Management.
34 |   ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATIONCorporate responsibility and long-term sustainability 
begins with our board.ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION   |    91  Execute Exceptionally Well
2  Mitigate Risk
3  Improve Every Day
4  Adapt Quickly
5  Develop Employees, Grow Leaders and Shape Culture
6  Build Relationships and Give BackSix Principles
ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION   |  35  
Atmos Energy at a Glance
Colorado-Kansas Division
Denver, CO
Kentucky/Mid-States Division
Franklin, TN
Louisiana Division
Baton Rouge, LAAtmos Energy Corporation
Headquarters, Dallas, TX
Mississippi Division
Flowood, MSWest Texas Division
Lubbock, TX
Carthage Hub
Katy HubWaha HubMid-Tex Division
Atmos Pipeline-Texas Division
Dallas, TX
Natural gas distribution areas
Division offices
Proprietary storage
Major gas delivery hubs
tmos Energy Corporation  is the nation’s largest fully regulated, natural gas-only distributor of safe, clean, 
efficient and affordable energy. As part of our vision to be the safest provider of natural gas services, we are 
modernizing our business and our infrastructure while continuing to invest in safety, innovation, environmental 
sustainability and our communities. An S&P 500 company headquartered in Dallas, Atmos Energy serves more than  
3 million distribution customers in over 1 ,400 communities across eight states and manages proprietary pipeline and 
storage assets, including one of the largest intrastate natural gas pipeline systems in Texas. 
36 |   ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATIONAAtmos Energy at a Glance
Atmos Energy Corporation 
P.O. Box 650205
Dallas, Texas 75265-0205
atmosenergy.com