Safe, Reliable, and Resilient
FOR OUR CUSTOMERS, COMMUNITIES, AND EMPLOYEES
ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION
2020 Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability ReportDuring these challenging times, 
Atmos Energy remains focused on 
our vision to be the safest provider 
of natural gas services. This year, 
reliable and affordable energy is 
 more essential than ever.To that end, we must operate exceptionally well, invest in  
our employees and infrastructure, enhance our culture,  
and continue to make a difference in the communities we serve.
ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION
2020 Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability ReportCorporate Governance
We’re fostering strong governance  
to achieve our vision.Safety
We’re investing in technologies of  
the future to improve safety today.
Employees
We’re supporting our people,  
the heart and soul of our company.
Environment
We’re doing our part to protect and 
preserve our environment today  
and for generations to come.Communities
We’re fueling safe and thriving  
communities every day.
Above:  Jacqueline, Service Technician 1 in Dallas, provides safe and courteous service as 
we continue to “Make Our Safe System Safer” during our pipeline replacement projects.
Cover:  Prior to March 2020, Phillip, a Service Technician 2 from Dallas, explains his findings 
after completing a safety check during the service restoration process.A MESSAGE FROM LEADERSHIP
Letter to Our Stakeholders
Atmos Energy is rooted in the belief that safety is 
at the center of everything we do, and it is our 
enduring vision to be the safest provider of 
natural gas services. To be sure, fiscal 2020 brought 
challenges; however, our steadfast commitment to safety 
paired with the guiding principles of our culture, 
AtmoSpirit, enabled us to emerge stronger and 
demonstrate the resiliency and reliability of natural gas.
As the public health crisis escalated in the 1,400 
communities we serve, the safety of our employees, our 
customers, and our communities remained our focus. 
Therefore, we implemented employee and customer 
safety practices and protocols to ensure continued safe 
and reliable delivery of natural gas service. Doing our 
part to help slow the spread, more than 95 percent of our 
4,700 employees safely transitioned to remote work and 
continued to perform at the highest level. We were able 
to accomplish this because our culture of teamwork and 
inclusion means we can move fast and adapt quickly.
We took the early step to voluntarily suspend natural 
gas disconnections and announced a $1.5 million 
donation to stock the shelves at local food banks around 
the country to support those in need. Additionally, we 
donated $1 million to energy assistance agencies in our 
service territories to support our friends and neighbors in 
need. We also helped arrange over $11 million in 
financial assistance through LIHEAP, our Sharing the 
Warmth program, and other assistance programs to 
help struggling customers manage past-due balances.
As part of our safety practices and protocols and to 
ensure the continued safe operation of our gas systems, 
employees wear face coverings and practice social 
distancing guidelines. We also implemented screening 
precautions to protect our customers and employees. 
Those actions provided us the ability to continue our 
system modernization work.Over the next five years, we plan to spend $11 billion  
to $12 billion to make our safe system even safer by 
replacing 5,000 to 6,000 miles of pipe. Despite the 
pandemic, we have a reasonable plan to complete the 
replacement of the remaining cast iron in our system by 
December 2021. Additionally, we remain on target to 
reduce methane emissions across our natural gas 
distribution system by 50 percent from 2017 to 2035. 
You can read more about our focus on safety and 
long-term sustainability on our website in the Corporate 
Responsibility section.
I want to thank all of our Atmos Energy employees, as 
they continue to provide our customers safe and reliable 
natural gas service. I am extremely proud of their 
dedication and commitment to keeping our 3.1 million 
customers, our 1,400 communities, themselves, and  
their families healthy and safe. At Atmos Energy, we 
take immense pride in fueling safe and thriving 
communities every day, and we pledge to continue that 
outreach as part of our ongoing commitment to deliver 
safe, reliable, affordable, and efficient natural gas.
Thank you for your support of Atmos Energy.
Kim R. Cocklin
Executive Chairman of the Board
J. Kevin Akers
President and Chief Executive Officer
Fiscal 2020 Corporate Responsibility  
and Sustainability Highlights
ENVIRONMENTAL
• Continued to reduce methane emissions by replacing 845 miles of pipe
•  Delivered 5.1 Bcf of RNG and CNG; equivalent to removing 58,000 cars from 
the road annually
• Joined Our Nation’s Energy Future Coalition (ONE Future)
SOCIAL
• Kicked off our rebranding efforts for Fueling Safe and Thriving Communities
•  Provided over 226,000 training hours to our employees; approximately  
40 percent were delivered virtually
• Contributed $14 million to charitable organizations
GOVERNANCE
• Transitioned 95 percent of our employees to a digital working environment 
•  Launched a Corporate Responsibility section on our website to provide  
greater transparency around our ESG practices
•  Formalized our corporate communications strategy to further improve 
engagement with all stakeholders
2ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION 3SAFETY
We’re investing in 
technologies of the future 
to improve safety today.
Our commitment to safety guides every decision we 
make because the safety of our employees, customers, 
and communities is essential. Because safety is our 
number one priority, we continually innovate and 
advance employee training, communicate safety 
messaging to our customers and communities,  
and invest in the modernization of our system.
Anthony is a Senior Construction Operator in Louisiana and is a 
Safety Team Lead at his local service center.SAFETY SAFETY
Remaining Resilient During Uncertain Times
During this year of uncertainty, our culture provided the foundation for Atmos Energy to be resilient and focused  
on our vision to be the safest provider of natural gas services.
Workforce
• At the end of our fiscal year, 95 percent of our employees were working in a digital 
working environment and continue to perform at the highest level.
• Employees have been trained and are following social distancing and other safety 
measures recommended by the CDC.
• Field operations personnel receive electronic work orders and report directly to the jobsite.
• Employees continue to receive high-quality technical training through virtual classrooms.
• Atmos Energy Wellness Workshops help support emotional, physical, and work-life 
well-being for employees during COVID-19.
Safety
• Safety remains our top priority; safety meetings are held virtually or on jobsites with 
employees maintaining social distancing.
• Employees are following the Occupational Health & Safety Administration (OSHA)’s 
Guidance on Preparing Workplaces for COVID-19.
• Employees are provided sanitizing products for themselves as well as for equipment  
and vehicle cleaning.
• New safety signage was placed to remind employees to follow social distancing  
and equipment cleaning protocols.
• A new mobile and desktop application for employees was developed to complete  
a daily wellness check-in.
Community
• Customer service agents use screening protocols to ensure customers and employees 
remain healthy and safe.
• We temporarily suspended disconnections for nonpayment, and temporarily waived 
late payment and reconnect fees during these challenging times.
• We communicated with customers who may be facing financial hardship that payment 
assistance is available through LIHEAP and our Sharing the Warmth program. We also 
provided payment flexibility by offering installment plans and accepting partial payments.
• Employees use updated safety signage on jobsites to remind the community of the 
protocols we are following to keep them safe.
Saluting Our Health Care Heroes
Nurses, doctors, paramedics, hospital administrators, and 
laboratory technicians have been working tirelessly throughout 
the pandemic. Many were unable to take a quick break or grab  
a sandwich at the hospital cafeteria, and some were even forced 
to live apart from loved ones in order to limit exposure and keep 
their own families healthy. During National Hospital Week in 
May, we saluted health care workers’ heroic efforts by  
delivering more than 12,000 meals to health care heroes in the 
eight states we serve. Our team members safely coordinated  
with local health care professionals caring for coronavirus 
patients to deliver hearty meals full of hometown flavor from  
local restaurants that offer expanded takeout and delivery 
services during the coronavirus pandemic.
Feeding Students and Families in Times of Need
Millions of U.S. workers filed for unemployment benefits in the wake of the economic shutdown, and many of those 
were parents with children who rely on school food programs for breakfast and lunch every day.
$1.5M
DONATIONAtmos Energy donated $1.5 million to quickly stock the 
shelves at local food banks.
By directing $1.5 million from the Atmos Energy/Robert W. Best Charitable Giving fund to numerous local food banks 
around the country that serve students and families most in need, organizations like the North Texas Food Bank 
(NTFB) were able to make a direct and immediate impact on the communities we serve. Every dollar donated to the 
NTFB provided access to three healthy meals, and 94 percent of every dollar goes directly to hunger relief programs 
in the 13 counties it serves.Atmos Energy employees showed their appreciation 
for our health care heroes with a drive-by truck parade 
and dropped off lunch at Texas Health Harris 
Methodist in Cleburne, Texas.
6ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION 7SAFETY SAFETY
Ambassador Program Boosts  
Damage Prevention Efforts
Because third-party damage represents one of the 
greatest threats to distribution systems, Atmos Energy 
administers a Damage Prevention Ambassador Program 
that empowers team members to identify and prevent 
potential digging accidents in the field. In fiscal 2020, 
ambassadors inspected more than 28,000 excavation 
sites, helping to prevent many potentially dangerous  
and costly accidents.
For example, in our West Texas Division, where new 
 home growth is flourishing, Damage Prevention 
Ambassadors in cities like Midland, Odessa, Big Spring, 
and Lubbock are always on the lookout for opportunities 
to raise awareness and strengthen relationships with 
contractors, homeowners, municipal utilities, and the public.
The program encourages personnel driving a company vehicle to visit active excavator sites and ask if the workers 
called 811 before digging. If not, employees are empowered to stop work, distribute 811 literature and take photos  
of the excavation site for documentation in a mobile app.
“We use the app to be proactive in engaging contractors before they can possibly damage us, to make sure they have 
called 811 and are digging safely around Atmos Energy underground facilities,” said the West Texas Compliance 
Manager. The West Texas Division has inspected more than 3,600 excavation sites to help ensure safe digging practices.Pictured is Darsey, a Crew Leader who takes part in the Damage 
Prevention Ambassador Program in the West Texas Division.
Safety Training Helps Save Lives
Training is an essential element of safety, empowering our employees to perform their jobs safely while also keeping  
our customers and the public safe. Drawing on their preparation and experience, several team members recently 
demonstrated compassion, skill, and selflessness that was beyond compare and ultimately helped save lives. 
While reading meters in a residential neighborhood, Service Technician Desmond witnessed a man fall off his roof. 
Desmond and a neighbor rushed to where the injured man lay on the ground, and Desmond coached the neighbor  
to assist the injured man according to his first aid and first responder training. When the paramedics arrived, 
Desmond was told by the ambulance attendant that his medical training was invaluable in keeping the man safe  
until help could arrive.
“ I was grateful the first aid and first responder training that I received  
allowed me to help in this situation until the ambulance arrived.”
– Desmond
In another instance, Senior Construction Operators Jacob and Kolby, and Crew Foreman Marcus, had just finished  
lunch when they came upon a woman holding a baby who was struggling to breathe. They quickly leaped into 
action, applying their CPR training to help the infant while simultaneously flagging down a passing ambulance. The 
paramedics stopped and quickly transported mother and baby to the hospital, and the team discovered later that day 
that the baby was fine. The employees credit their company safety training in helping to save the infant’s life. 
Calling 81 1 to locate and mark utility lines is crucial for safe digging. Clem, a Crew Leader, marks a natural gas line with  
temporary paint in Louisiana.Pictured from left to right: Senior Construction Operators Kolby and Jacob, and Crew Foreman Marcus
8ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION 9EMPLOYEES
We’re supporting our 
people, the heart and 
soul of our company.
Our employees are our greatest asset and our  
most important investment. We recruit and hire 
individuals with a variety of skills, talents,  
backgrounds, and experiences. We value our  
culture that respects and appreciates inclusion  
and diversity as it reflects the unique  
communities that we serve.
Sheila is a Damage Prevention Technician in Mississippi and is passionate about the 
safety of our employees and protecting the integrity of our distribution system. She is 
an enterprise leader in the company’s Damage Prevention Ambassador Program.EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES
Making a Difference for New Employees
For years, all new employees have traveled to the Charles K. Vaughan Center to participate in a three-day, in-person 
workshop to learn about our AtmoSpirit culture and the role each employee plays in making Atmos Energy the  
safest provider of natural gas services. When we pivoted to a digital work environment this year, members of our 
Workforce Development team introduced Virtual Atmos Energy Essentials, which is designed to remotely onboard  
10 new employees per session from any location. Two groups of new employees “virtually meet” throughout a  
single week – one group from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. and another group from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. each weekday.
“ We adjusted our existing AtmoSpirit content to function as a virtual  
curriculum after running a pilot workshop with a diverse cross-section of 
employees from across the enterprise,” said AtmoSpirit Facilitator  
Jack, who co-created the virtual orientation.
This partial-day format allows participants to learn and apply AtmoSpirit principles in their work and home life, and 
Microsoft Teams™ provides the technology to foster a true connection between the participants.
Growth and Diversity
Our company is a place where people with diverse 
backgrounds strive to create a great future – together. 
Investing in our people has allowed us to expand our 
workforce and reflect the changing demographics in 
the communities where we live, work, and play. We 
partner with local colleges and universities to identify 
and recruit qualified applicants in each of the cities 
and towns we serve, and we target jobs fairs  
including those focused on minority, veteran, and 
women candidates.
Over the last five years, of the approximately 2,000 
employees hired, 31 percent are women and 44 percent 
are minority.Culture of Leadership
Our culture of leadership begins before an applicant is  
offered a job and continues through performance planning, 
personal development, and succession planning.
Workforce performance enhances our leadership pipeline. 
Each year, employees participate in goal setting, regular  
check-ins with supervisors, and year-end reviews to capture 
what they will do to live AtmoSpirit, help achieve our vision, 
adapt to change, and continuously improve. One of the  
most important components of our AtmoSpirit culture is 
personal development.
In 2019, 64 percent of the participants in our five 
developing leaders learning tracks were minorities/
women. Currently, 25 percent of our leaders are 
women and more than 20 percent are minorities.
Our leadership development efforts and succession planning 
for all employees is reflected in the increase in leadership 
diversity over the last five years, including a 10 percent increase 
for women and an overall 34 percent increase for minorities.
RECENT HIRES   
BY GENDER
within 5 yearsL E A D E R S  
BY GENDER
 69% Men
 31% Women 75% Men
 25% Women
 2% Asian
 17% Black or African American
 19% Hispanic or Latino
 1% Native American or Alaska Native
 5% Two or more races
 56% White 4% Asian
 6% Black or African American
 10% Hispanic or Latino
 <1% Native American or Alaska Native
 1% Two or more races
 79% White
RECENT HIRES BY  
RACE/ETHNICITY
within 5 yearsL E A D E R S  BY 
RACE/ETHNICITY
Diana, a Measurement and Engineering Analyst in Dallas, is passionate about giving back and has volunteered  
with Susan G. Komen since 2001.
12 ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION 13EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES
Innovative Virtual Training Enhances Employee Skills  
and Development
When we temporarily suspended in-person training at the Charles K. Vaughan (CKV) Center to maintain the safety  
of our workforce, our technical training team was prepared to transition technical training classes to a virtual 
environment to ensure our employees continued to have access to the training they need to realize our vision of being 
the safest provider of natural gas services. Core functions such as meter reading and service & construction were 
delivered via Microsoft Teams™ with self-paced courses and hands-on practice. New materials were also developed to 
support virtual learning, including a class syllabus, new online courses, video demonstrations, and field assignments.
This new style of digital learning enhances our job skills training and supports our business modernization efforts.
The virtual training process features smaller class sizes and more one-on-one time for the instructors to spend with 
students through phone calls, video meetings, and online chat. The revised training schedule has also provided the 
opportunity to offer more classes and enables students to absorb training without traveling from other states to  
the DFW metroplex. Experienced employees have also been able to take advantage of virtual refresher training 
opportunities that reinforce their existing skills. This new style of digital learning enhances our job skills training and 
supports our business modernization efforts.
Training kits and props, such as this meter, were delivered to 
students in order to mimic the hands-on portion of training that 
would ordinarily be completed at the CKV training center.
Our Workforce Development team launched a successful pilot of our Virtual Reality (VR) Emergency Response  
Situation module with 50 students who provided overwhelmingly positive feedback. 
These pioneering solutions enhance our existing curriculum and perfectly complement the coaching that employees 
receive at our state-of-the-art CKV facility. Ongoing innovations in learning and development will continue to add  
value across our existing technical and job skills training as well as new employee development.
Continuous Training Leads to Safety Improvements
Because employee safety is paramount, our daily focus is to continuously improve on our safety training and  
protocols so that our essential workforce is always prepared to deliver safe, reliable natural gas.
OSHA
Recordable Injury Rate  
(per 200,000 hours worked)2014
2019
 2.80 2.85  2.90 2.95 3.0
DART
Days Away/Restricted Duty/  
Transfer Injury Rate  
(per 200,000 hours worked)2014
2019
 1.66 1.67 1.68 1.69  1.70  1.71 1.72
RMVC
Reportable Motor Vehicle  
Collision Rate (per 1,000,000  
miles driven)2014
2019
 5.0 5.1 5.2 5.3 5.4 5.5
Virtual Reality Lab at the Charles K. Vaughan Center in early 2020.
14 ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION 15ENVIRONMENT
We’re doing our part to protect  
and preserve our environment today  
and for generations to come.We provide clean, efficient, and innovative energy solutions for our customers  
and communities, and continue to invest in system modernization that reduces our  
environmental impact. Our goal of reducing methane emissions by 50 percent  
from 2017 to 2035 is essential to our environmental commitment.
Atmos Energy, Texas Trees Foundation, Texas 81 1, and local officials 
celebrate 81 1 Day by safely planting 500 trees in 25 cities across Texas.ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT
Innovative Natural Gas Technologies Provide Clean and  
Efficient Energy
We partner with customers and suppliers to apply innovative technologies that deliver sustainable solutions for a clean 
energy future, providing yet another pathway to protect and preserve our environment today and for generations to come.
Valued Partnerships Deliver Renewable Energy
The transportation of landfill gas is an important element of our strategy to 
responsibly reduce methane emissions. According to the EPA, municipal solid waste 
(MSW) landfills are the third-largest source of human-related methane emissions in 
the United States, and methane has a global warming potential more than 25 times 
greater than CO2. Reducing methane emissions can achieve significant near-term 
benefits in mitigating global climate change, so MSW facilities represent a unique 
opportunity to capture, convert, and use landfill gas as a renewable energy 
resource. Landfill gas producers need transmission companies like Atmos Energy  
to transport their renewable natural gas (RNG) to market.
Our relationship with River Birch landfill demonstrates how we are helping companies transport their RNG to market.  
The River Birch landfill is a 920-acre facility outside New Orleans that processes MSW emissions into approximately 
4,500 Mcf of RNG every day. Since 2010 we have collaborated with River Birch on quality specifications and,  
during non-peak demand periods, to blend pipeline-quality natural gas with RNG from the landfill and then sell the gas  
to a power generator and local distribution company. Following a planned expansion that will connect it to the nearby 
Jefferson Parish landfill, River Birch will soon be the largest facility in the country producing pipeline-quality gas.
We also work with partners like HAMM Waste Services, a landfill gas manufacturing facility in Lawrence, Kansas, that 
produces 1.5 million Mcf of RNG from 130 “wells” on capped areas of the landfill. After passing through a series of 
filters and separation processes, additional scrubbing is done by a thermal oxidizer using natural gas provided by  
Atmos Energy. The “cleaned” natural gas meets Southern Star Pipeline standards and is marketed to fuel compressed 
natural gas (CNG) vehicles in California, helping to offset nearly 5 million gallons of gasoline in that state.Combined Heat and Power Delivers Low-Carbon, Affordable 
Energy Solutions
Combined heat and power (CHP) is an efficient and clean approach to generating electric power and useful  
thermal energy from a single fuel source, typically natural gas. The heat created from producing electricity, which  
is typically wasted, is captured and turned into steam or hot water that can be used for space heating, cooling,  
domestic hot water, and industrial processes. A 2016 Department of Energy study cited CHP as a clean energy 
solution that has a number of benefits, including reducing greenhouse gas emissions and energy operating costs,  
in addition to increasing energy efficiency up to 75 percent when compared to electricity from the grid.
CHP is utilized in a variety of industrial facilities and commercial buildings to simultaneously supply electricity and 
provide thermal loads. CHP can also be integrated into district energy systems utilized by colleges, hospitals,  
downtown areas, and other campus-type facilities. A district energy system is a centralized facility that generates  
steam and hot and cold water that is piped through an underground network to buildings for space heating, air  
conditioning, and other energy needs.
WaterHeat Recovery 
Unit
Engine/Turbine Generator
ElectricitySteam or 
Hot Water
Building, Facility, 
or GridNatural GasCooling/
Heating
Hot Exhaust Gases
Natural Gas Fuels Microgrid to Provide  
Responsible Energy for Student Housing
Atmos Energy and Mississippi State University (MSU) teamed up with 
developer Greystar and Blue Sky Power to build College View Apartments. 
This innovative 130-unit student housing complex utilizes CHP technology to 
generate clean electricity that’s powered by an onsite natural gas generator  
to provide electricity, hot water, and heating to all units.
This clean energy infrastructure, known as the MSU Clean Energy Microgrid, 
will generate reliable and resilient energy with the ability to operate fully 
independent of the city’s electric grid. It also significantly reduces operating 
expenses by relying on a centralized electric and thermal energy system 
fueled by affordable natural gas. MSU will save approximately $116,000 
every year in electric utility costs and will reduce CO2 emissions by more than 
827 tons annually – the equivalent emissions of 162 passenger vehicles. This 
CHP project is the first in Mississippi for use in apartments, and MSU is 
already planning the next phase of this development.RENEWABLE ENERGY PROCESS
Biogas is methane captured from 
landfills, agricultural and food  
waste, and wastewaterBiogas-derived methane is 
conditioned, processed, and refined 
into pipeline-quality gasRenewable natural gas is injected 
into utility-owned pipelinesRenewable natural gas is used to 
fuel homes, businesses, industries, 
and vehicles5.1  Bcf
Of renewable natural  
gas transported
58,000
Equates to removing almost  
58,000 passenger vehicles  
from our roads every year
$1 16,000
In electric costs saved annually
827
Tons of CO2 emissions  
avoided annually
162
Equates to removing the 
emissions of 162  
passenger vehicles
18 ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION 19ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT
Helping Customers Save Money, Conserve Energy,  
Reduce Carbon Footprint
Efficiency is one of the main reasons why our customers choose natural gas as an essential energy source for their 
homes and businesses. To help our customers achieve energy savings and lower their environmental impact, we  
offer financial incentives for purchasing high-efficiency natural gas appliances and smart thermostats, plus installing 
weatherization materials in our Mississippi, Colorado, and Mid-Tex divisions.
45,000
Residential and commercial  
customers participated in  
energy efficiency programs1.2M
Therms of natural gas  
conserved7,10 0
Tons of CO2 emissions  
avoided annually
Natural Gas Provides Energy  
Efficiency, Lower Environmental 
Impact in New Home Construction
A 2019 National Association of Home Builders survey found 
that buyers are looking for energy-efficient homes that also 
have whole-house green certifications which are affordably 
and comfortably achieved with natural gas. We partnered 
with two Dallas-area builders, Hoffmann Homes and Urban 
Edge Developers, to provide marketing assistance and 
coordinate the infrastructure and installation of high-efficiency 
natural gas equipment so these builders could achieve Green 
Built Texas and Platinum LEED certified homes in Dallas. 
In the Mississippi and Mid-Tex divisions, builders can take 
advantage of rebates on high-efficiency appliances like 
furnaces and water heaters, in addition to smart thermostats. 
These financial incentives have encouraged 36 builders to 
install higher efficiency models that avoid close to 600 tons of 
CO2 emissions annually.Gerson, a Senior Utility Technician in Kansas, locates 
and marks underground natural gas pipelines with 
yellow temporary paint to ensure safe digging.
Atmos Energy Joins ONE Future
Our target to reduce methane emissions in our natural gas distribution system by 50 percent from 2017 to 2035  
is an essential component of our environmental sustainability strategy. In January, Atmos Energy joined Our Nation’s 
Energy Future Coalition (ONE Future), a voluntary alliance of leading companies across the natural gas supply chain 
focused on technology and policy solutions to drive continual improvement in the reduction of methane emissions. 
Joining ONE Future includes a commitment to measuring, reporting, and tracking key emissions metrics in accordance 
with ONE Future protocols, reflecting our continued commitment to responsible, sustainable practices in our natural 
gas distribution businesses and pipeline and storage operations.
20 ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION 21COMMUNITIES
We’re fueling safe and 
thriving communities 
every day.
Community service is woven into the fabric of Atmos 
Energy’s culture, and our employees take pride in 
fueling safe and thriving communities every day. We 
are committed to helping our children have a bright  
and healthy future by fighting childhood hunger and 
focusing on reading on level by third grade, showing 
appreciation to our hometown heroes, and providing 
assistance to our neighbors in need. Being a good 
neighbor also means providing helpful solutions for 
customers to pay their bills, and doing our part to 
support local economies so they can grow and  
flourish. Taking care of our communities is more  
essential now than ever.
Frank is a Colorado native who enjoys spending 
time with his family outdoors and volunteering at 
the Guadalupe Center in Greeley. COMMUNITIES COMMUNITIES
Fueling Safe and Thriving Communities Is 
Woven into Our Culture
Compassion to give back to communities we serve flows through the heart 
and soul of Atmos Energy’s 4,700 employees. Whether it is reading to 
students, working with local food banks, or showing appreciation to our 
hometown heroes, our employees have always invested in the communities 
we call home. In 2020, we formally rebranded what we have been doing 
for years – we call it Fueling Safe and Thriving Communities.
Fueling Bright Minds and Healthy Futures for Our Kids
Through our Fueling Safe and Thriving Communities program, we donated $2 million across the eight states we serve 
to provide resources that help students read on level by the third grade. Third grade marks the shift from “learning to 
read” to “reading to learn,” which means deficient readers are at greater risk of falling behind. According to the 
National Conference of State Legislatures, research shows that students struggling to read at the end of third grade 
are four times less likely to finish high school.
Sharing a similar passion to open doors, broaden horizons, and position kids for success, we proudly committed  
$1 million of the donation to United Way of Metropolitan Dallas to bring life-changing resources to our youngest 
learners and their families.
An estimated 18 million children face hunger nationwide, so we also donated $2 million to join forces with  
hundreds of local school districts, food banks, and other essential organizations to give the breakfasts, lunches, 
snacks, and healthy meals that all children need to grow, develop, and succeed.
Fueling safe and thriving communities means we are committed to enhancing childhood literacy and reducing food 
insecurity, and these donations will fuel bright minds and healthy futures for the kids in our communities.Fueling Hope for Our Neighbors in Need
Our average residential bill is one of the most affordable utility bills in the house, 
representing approximately 1 percent of the median household income in the eight 
states we serve. However, we recognize there are times when our customers need 
financial assistance with their bill. That is why we always stand ready to offer critical 
relief to families and businesses. In addition to our annual Sharing the Warmth 
contribution, we donated an additional $1 million directly to energy assistance 
agencies to help customers stay warm this winter. These funds are distributed in 
partnership with more than 100 energy assistance agencies and nonprofit 
organizations across the eight states we serve.
Beginning in March, we temporarily suspended natural gas disconnections for 
non-payment, in addition to offering additional flexible payment plans and raising 
awareness about financial help that is available to qualified households. To make  
sure homes and businesses have reliable and affordable natural gas, Atmos Energy 
continues to work with our customers and local assistance agencies to offer customers 
year-round relief and financial solutions including Atmos Energy’s Sharing the Warmth 
program and the federal Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP).
Atmos Energy continues to work with our customers and local assistance agencies to 
make sure homes and businesses have reliable and affordable natural gas when they 
need it the most.
Fueling Honor and Appreciation  
for Our Hometown Heroes
Firefighters, police, medical professionals, teachers, and other 
community role models are America’s everyday heroes, and we 
proudly support their continued dedication to the communities 
we serve. In September, Atmos Energy donated $105,000 to 
Colorado and Kansas fire departments that are essential in 
protecting public health, safety, and community well-being.
America’s firefighters respond to health and safety emergencies every day, while fire departments also offer safety 
classes to educate the public about topics including the proper use of fire extinguishers, the importance of fire alarms, 
and sound evacuation procedures. As part of our commitment to fueling safe and thriving communities, we partner 
with thousands of firefighter personnel each year to provide natural gas safety training, promote home safety 
guidance to residents, and support victims of natural disasters.
Atmos Energy’s donation helped to provide equipment and personal protective gear, raise awareness for community 
safety, support professional development, and expand volunteer fire departments.
“We are extremely grateful to Atmos Energy for their generosity and for their dedication to community safety, helping us 
prepare to deal with the vast array of emergencies we face,” said Chief Dale Lyman of the Greeley (Colo.) Fire Department.David, Colorado Operations Supervisor, shares his 
appreciation with the Greeley Fire Department Rescue team.
Atmos Energy employees Kurtis, David, and Frank donate backpacks, lunch boxes, and water bottles to a school in Greeley, CO. In attendance 
is Greeley-Evans Weld County School District 6 Superintendent, Dr. Deirdre Pilch, and Centennial Elementary Principal, Dr. Angie McDowell.
24 ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION 25$9,518,903
Customer assistance received 
through LIHEAP and other 
assistance programs
$1, 8 7 7,12 7
Financial assistance provided 
through our Sharing the 
Warmth program
37 ,424
Households assisted through 
energy assistance programsCOMMUNITIES COMMUNITIES
Employees Pledge $875,000 During Week of Giving
Our employees take enormous pride in their commitment to fuel safe and thriving communities. During our annual 
Week of Giving campaign, employees across the enterprise pledged more than $875,000 in donations to benefit 
United Way, No Kid Hungry, and The Salvation Army. Further amplifying the impact of this tremendous financial 
support, the company matched all employee donations to double the vital resources crucial organizations use to 
enrich childhood literacy, provide nutritious meals, and offer a helping hand to our most vulnerable neighbors.
During Week of Giving, employees across the enterprise participated in various activities to give back to  
communities where they work and live. Some employees participated in an online Back to School Drive that  
amassed school supplies for students at Mi Escuelita, a preschool network that develops English language  
vocabulary skills at 11 locations in the Dallas area. Other employees wrote thank you notes to health care heroes to 
express gratitude for their service and offer words of encouragement. These are just a couple of examples of how  
our employees support their communities.
Natural Gas Is Fundamental for Growing Economies  
and Communities
Since 2018, we have partnered with the Mississippi Public Service Commission to implement a service expansion 
program benefiting rural communities that would otherwise lack access to affordable and reliable natural gas.  
Atmos Energy has completed 54 projects in 28 communities since the program’s inception, with the most recent 
service extension occurring at the Mississippi Horse Park in Starkville as well as 50 current residences and another 
200 planned homes in the area.
This is a prime example of how public and private entities can work together to expand access to reliable,  
affordable, and environmentally responsible natural gas.
Employees participated in a logo design contest for Week of Giving. This is the winning logo by Bethany, Revenue Management 
Coordinator in Dallas, Texas.Jack, Senior Service Technician, and Tyler, Senior Construction Operator, work with local Mississippi contractors to provide natural gas 
service to new customers in the Starkville area.
26 ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION 27CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
We’re fostering  
strong governance to 
achieve our vision.
At Atmos Energy, strong corporate governance is core 
to our culture and our values. It supports our vision to  
be the safest provider of natural gas services, it 
mitigates risk, and is the foundation of our long-term 
corporate sustainability effort. We expect everyone to 
take responsibility for doing what is right for all 
stakeholders. Leading with integrity is essential for 
conducting our business ethically, instilling  
accountability in our employees and working with 
business partners who share our high standards and 
principles. We are committed to continuous 
improvement by providing an anonymous Compliance 
Helpline for employees, contractors, and the public to 
give feedback or make recommendations for 
improvements to safety, risk identification, prevention, 
and mitigation.
To access the Compliance Helpline, call  
1-866-543-4065  or visit our compliance website.
Doug, Operations Supervisor in the Golden Triangle area of Mississippi, has 
trained countless employees in his 40-year tenure with the company.Corporate Governance Highlights
Atmos Energy has adopted a number of practices to promote strong corporate governance to ensure the  
long-term sustainability of the Company.
Board Practices
• Independent lead director
• Separation of board chair and CEO
• 11 of 14 directors are independent
• Annual election of all directors
• Regular executive sessions of independent directors
• Comprehensive and strategic risk oversight
• Annual board and committee evaluations
Other Governance Practices
• Executive and director stock ownership guidelines
• Clawback policy
• Prohibition on hedging or pledging stockShareholder Matters
• Robust shareholder engagement
• Annual say-on-pay voting
• Majority voting for director elections
• No poison pill defense
Board Committees
• Audit Committee
• Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability,  
& Safety Committee
• Executive Committee
• Human Resources Committee
• Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee
Board of Directors
Our Board’s leadership structure is designed to ensure independent 
oversight of corporate management and key issues related to  
strategy and risk. Our lead director is independent. All standing 
Board committees are chaired by independent directors. 
Additionally, independent directors regularly hold executive sessions 
outside the presence of the executive chairman, the president and 
CEO, or any other company employee. Directors serve one-year 
terms upon election and are reelected to subsequent one-year terms 
by a shareholder vote at the annual shareholders meeting. The  
Board has a mandatory retirement age of 75, with members serving 
through the annual meeting following their 75th birthday.
Board members are nominated annually based on their diversity of 
skills, background, financial literacy, availability, independence, and 
other relevant leadership qualities. We believe our Board has the 
right balance of tenure, with 50 percent of the Board members with 
10-plus years of experience on the Board, providing consistency and 
historical perspective, and 43 percent with less than five years  
of experience bringing new ideas and a fresh perspective.CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
BOARD TENURE
 < 5 years
 5–9 years 10–15 years
 > 15 years21.4%28.6%
42.9%
7.1%
30 ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATIONCORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Leadership
Our Management Committee is comprised of five senior leaders responsible for the execution of company strategy as 
approved by the Board. The Management Committee meets regularly to actively monitor operations and financial 
performance; ensure compliance with policies, procedures, and ethical business practices; and implement strategy to 
achieve sustainable, long-term performance.
20%
Women and minorities on  
Management Committee 32%
Women and minorities  
as officers 56%
Women and minorities  
recently appointed to  
leadership
Employee safety meetings, like this one in Mississippi, were conducted monthly in service centers prior to March 2020.
Succession Planning
Succession planning is an extensive annual process at Atmos Energy. It begins with our Board and goes down  
through all levels of the organization to ensure that we are building a strong bench of talent. Not only is talent 
identified, but potential paths of development are discussed to ensure that employees have an opportunity to build 
their skills and are well prepared for future roles. We have a long history of promoting our senior leadership from 
within the organization. Over the past five years women and minorities have accounted for 56 percent of the  
officer appointments, including the promotion of two women to division president.Leading with Integrity
Atmos Energy’s Code of Conduct begins with our deep commitment to fairness, mutual respect, and participation.  
We are committed to abide by the letter and spirit of all laws and regulations that apply to our business. These 
guidelines apply to all of us, and remind us that what we do every day and how we do it are critically important to 
help us achieve our vision of being the safest provider of natural gas services. In 2020, 100 percent of active 
employees completed our annual Code of Conduct training. Our Code of Conduct training reinforces how to identify 
and deal with ethical issues such as conflicts of interest, gifts and entertainment, use of confidential information, fair 
dealing, protection of corporate assets, compliance with rules and regulations, and safety.
100%In 2020, 100 percent of active employees completed our 
annual Code of Conduct training.
If you have suggestions, recommendations, questions, or have witnessed a potential violation of the Code of  
Conduct, you may contact Atmos Energy’s Compliance Helpline. All submissions to the Compliance Helpline are 
treated confidentially and we will not tolerate retaliation against anyone for submitting a concern or  
recommendation. In addition to our Code of Conduct, our Board has adopted several policies and guidelines that 
demonstrate our commitment to strong corporate governance and diversity.
Leaders Learning from Leaders
Just like our vision of being the safest provider of natural gas 
services, learning how to lead is a continuous, never-ending 
journey. We support this journey in a way that is aligned with 
our vision and our AtmoSpirit principles.
We have a proven approach for growing leaders that is  
guided by our belief that you learn it by doing it, by getting 
opportunities, receiving coaching and feedback, and through 
self-reflection. Leadership training and a well-equipped 
Learning from Leaders Toolkit support our organic, learn by 
doing approach to growing leaders. Our leader-led 
development goes beyond just communicating with and 
coaching direct reports. Our leaders collaborate and share 
information about how they are connecting with their 
employees and other leaders across the enterprise.In addition to Learning from Leaders, Atmos Energy provides 
numerous professional development courses ranging from 
“Is Supervision for Me?” to “OQ Evaluator Training.”
32 ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION 33Appendix
a.  Sustainability Accounting Standards 
Board (SASB) Index
b.  Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index
c.  Methane Emissions Report
d. DOT ReportMatthew, Senior Utility Technician, checks for 
continuity to ensure company assets are  
isolated to maximize protection of our system.APPENDIX APPENDIX
Sustainability Accounting Standards
Board (SASB) Index
SASB 
CodeQuestion SASB Title Disclosure Title Response
IF-GU-
240a.1.1Energy 
AffordabilityAverage retail gas 
rate for (1) residential, 
(2) commercial, (3) 
industrial customers, 
and (4) transportation 
services onlyHistorical information is available in the Atmos Energy 
Corporation Statistical Summary, which is available on the  
Atmos Energy Website.
IF-GU-
240a.2.2Energy 
AffordabilityTypical monthly gas 
bill for residential 
customers for (1) 
50 MMBtu and (2) 
100 MMBtu of gas 
delivered per yearFor residential customers using 50 MMBtu per year the average 
bill is $47 .18.
For residential customers using 100 MMBtu per year the average 
bill is $74.05.
IF-GU-
240a.3.3Energy 
AffordabilityNumber of residential 
customer gas 
disconnections 
for non-payment, 
percentage 
reconnected within 
30 daysThis is a metric that we do not publicly disclose. However, we 
proactively work with customers to provide them with solutions 
should they experience financial hardship. We are able to 
provide our customers with financial assistance should the need 
arise through programs like Sharing the Warmth and LIHEAP. 
Beginning in March 2020 we temporarily suspended gas 
disconnections for non-payment to help those customers who 
were impacted by the economic effects of COVID-19.
IF-GU-
240a.4.4Energy 
AffordabilityDiscussion of impact  
of external factors on 
customer affordability  
of gas, including the 
economic conditions 
of the service territoryOur customers’ natural gas bills are some of the lowest in the 
home and make up approximately 1% of the median income in the 
jurisdictions where we operate. We provide a comparison of our 
monthly gas bill in our monthly investor report along with providing 
a detailed chart of our bills’ historical growth and factors that 
impact customer bills.
IF-GU-
420a.1.5End-Use 
EfficiencyPercentage of gas 
utility revenues from 
rate structures that  
(1) are decoupled 
or (2) contain a lost 
revenue adjustment 
mechanism (LRAM)In our distribution segment, we have weather normalization 
(WNA) mechanisms in all states, except for Colorado. This 
substantially mitigates the adverse effects of warmer-than-normal 
weather for meters in those service areas. We have one formal 
lost revenue adjustment mechanism called the DSM in Colorado. 
We also have formula rate mechanisms in place in four states 
that provide for an annual rate review and adjustment to rates. 
In our pipeline and storage segment, approximately 80% of this 
segment’s revenues are earned from delivery services to local 
distribution companies (including our MidTex Division).SASB 
CodeQuestion SASB Title Disclosure Title Response
IF-GU-
420a.2.6End-Use 
EfficiencyCustomer gas savings 
from efficiency 
measures by marketGas savings efficiency measures are only permissible in jurisdictions 
where it is allowed by our regulators. Currently we have four energy 
efficiency programs in our service areas.
Colorado (Tariff Sheet 8a)
Gas Demand-Side Management Cost Adjustment (G-DSMCA) 
All sales rate schedules for natural gas service are subject to a Gas 
Demand-Side Management Adjustment (“G-DSMCA”) designed 
to prospectively recover prudently incurred costs of Demand-Side 
Management Programs (“DSM Programs”) in accordance with 
Gas Demand-Side Management Rules 4750 through 4760 of the 
Commission’s Rules Regulating Gas Utilities and Pipeline Operators, 
4 Code of Colorado Regulations 723- 4 (“Gas DSM Rules”). The 
G-DSMCA Factor shall be separately calculated and applied to the 
Company’s base rates schedules for residential, small commercial, 
and commercial customers. The Company shall recover the annual 
expenditures projected for that year over a one-year period with the 
G-DSMCA Factor.
Kentucky (Tariff Sheet 30)
Applicable to Rate G-1 Sales Service, residential class only. Purpose: 
The Company offers a low-income weatherization program in order 
to improve efficiency and household safety for eligible customers. 
The program does not rehabilitate homes and does not include 
home additions, paint, carpet, or lead-based paint and asbestos 
abatements. The program may include, but not be limited to, the 
replacement of doors and windows, caulking, window stripping, 
installation of insulation, and/or the maintenance/replacement of 
natural gas appliances.
Mississippi (Energy Efficiency Rider Tariff)
The purpose of the Energy Efficiency Cost Recovery (EECR) Rider is 
to establish the EECR Rate(s) by which the Company will recover its 
energy efficiency Quick Start Plan program costs approved by the 
Mississippi Public Service Commission (“Commission”), including 
(1) the incremental energy efficiency program costs (“Incremental 
Program Costs”) and (2) lost contribution to fixed cost (“LCFC”) 
(collectively, the “Recoverable Costs”), all as described in Rule 29, 
“Conservation and Energy Efficiency Programs,” of the Commission’s 
Rules and Regulations Governing Public Utility Service, and as 
approved by the Commission in Docket 2010-AD-2 on July 11, 2013. 
Recovery of Incremental Program Costs is limited to the incremental 
costs which represent the direct program costs that are not already 
included in the then-current rates of the Company.
Mid-Tex (Conservation and Energy Efficiency Rider)
Atmos Energy Corporation’s Mid-Tex Division provides a 
Conservation and Energy Efficiency program which offers assistance 
to residential and commercial customers to encourage reductions in 
energy consumption and lower energy utility bills. The proposal is 
one where Atmos Energy shareholders will fund half the allowable 
expenses incurred annually, with a customer rate component 
providing the remainder of the funding. The programs offered under 
Rate Schedule CEE will be consistent with similar conservation and 
energy efficiency programs offered by other gas utilities and may 
include, but not be limited to, residential and commercial customer 
rebates for high-efficiency appliances and equipment, as well as a 
low-income customer weatherization assistance program.
IF-GU-
540a.1.7Integrity of 
Gas Delivery 
InfrastructureNumber of (1) 
reportable pipeline 
incidents, (2)  
Corrective Action 
Orders (CAO), and (3) 
Notices of Probable 
Violation (NOPV)Reportable Pipeline Orders – 6
Corrective Action Orders – 0
Notices or Probable Violation (NOPV) – 0
ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATIONSASB 
CodeQuestion SASB Title Disclosure Title Response
IF-GU-
540a.2.8Integrity of 
Gas Delivery 
InfrastructurePercentage of 
distribution pipeline 
that is (1) cast  
and/or wrought 
iron and (2) 
unprotected steelWe publish this information in our annual DOT Report Filings. 
Additionally, the data is made available on our website, in our 
annual Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Report, and in 
our monthly Investor Updates. As of September 30, 2020, we had 
356 miles of cast iron and 4,998 miles of unprotected steel which 
represents approximately 7 .6% of our distribution pipeline.
IF-GU-
540a.3.9Integrity of 
Gas Delivery 
InfrastructurePercentage of gas 
(1) transmission 
and (2) distribution 
pipelines inspected In fiscal year 2020 we inspected approximately 18% or 1,035 miles 
of the 5,684 total transmission miles.
Atmos Energy surveys the approximately 75,000 miles of our 
distribution and transmission pipelines at rates and frequencies that 
meet and often exceed state and federal guidelines. Monitoring 
frequency of pipelines is determined by federal and state pipeline 
safety codes, accepted industry standards, and internal Atmos 
Energy practices and procedures.
IF-GU-
540a.4.10Integrity of 
Gas Delivery 
InfrastructureDescription of 
efforts to manage 
the integrity of 
gas delivery 
infrastructure, 
including risks 
related to safety 
and emissionsAtmos Energy is committed to being the safest provider of natural gas. 
That’s why we invest approximately $2 billion a year to modernize our 
pipeline infrastructure.
Our system includes more than 75,000 miles of distribution and 
transmission pipelines, as well as smaller “service” pipelines that 
connect directly to homes and businesses. We bury much of our 
pipe underground, where it is away from weather and activities that 
commonly cause damage and leaks. Atmos Energy has always 
had processes and procedures in place to ensure the safety of our 
distribution and transmission network. During fiscal 2019, we adopted 
a Pipeline Safety Management System (PSMS), which formally 
documents our processes and procedures under a systematic and 
structured framework that builds on our established pipeline safety 
programs. PSMS was developed by the American Petroleum Institute 
and is a recommended practice for the pipeline industry. All Atmos 
Energy employees play a role in our PSMS through identification, 
prevention, and remediation of operational safety risks.
Additionally, because third-party damage represents one of the greatest 
threats to distribution systems, Atmos Energy administers a Damage 
Prevention Ambassador Program that empowers team members to 
identify and prevent potential digging accidents in the field. In fiscal 
2020, ambassadors inspected more than 28,000 excavation sites, 
helping to prevent many potentially dangerous and costly accidents. 
Additionally, we operate an emergency hotline 24 hours a day, seven 
days a week to respond to and investigate reports of natural gas leaks.
Atmos Energy is committed to practices that reduce methane emissions 
from our transmission and distribution systems, including infrastructure 
renewal programs to replace aging steel and cast iron distribution 
pipelines. Atmos Energy utilizes a number of practices in its day-to-
day operations to prevent or reduce methane emissions. Some of the 
practices include but are not limited to the following:
• Drawing down transmission line pressure when repairing or working 
on the pipelines to reduce natural gas released to the atmosphere.
• Rerouting gas to minimize or prevent venting or blowdowns.
• Installing pipeline stopples and bypasses as necessary to maintain 
operations and minimize extent of blowdown.
• Utilizing flares to combust methane instead of releasing methane to 
the atmosphere.SASB 
CodeQuestion SASB Title Disclosure Title Response
IF-GU-
000.A11Activity 
MetricNumber of: (1) 
residential, (2) 
commercial, and 
(3) industrial 
customers servedHistorical information is available in the Atmos Energy Corporation 
Statistical Summary, which is available on the Atmos Energy Website.
IF-GU-
000.B12Activity 
MetricAmount of natural 
gas delivered 
to: (1) residential 
customers, (2) 
commercial 
customers, (3) 
industrial customers, 
and (4) transferred 
to a third partyHistorical information is available in the Atmos Energy Corporation 
Statistical Summary, which is available on the Atmos Energy Website.
IF-GU-
000.C13Activity 
MetricLength of gas (1) 
transmission and 
(2) distribution 
pipelinesAt September 30, 2020, in our distribution segment, we owned 
an aggregate of 71,558 miles of underground distribution and 
transmission mains throughout our distribution systems. Through our 
pipeline and storage segment we also owned 5,684 miles of gas 
transmission lines.
This index is designed to provide information from the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) reporting framework. It identifies where 
we make certain disclosures and provides unaudited information for the Gas Utilities & Distributors industry section within the infrastructure sector.
ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATIONAPPENDIX APPENDIXAPPENDIX APPENDIX
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index
General Disclosures
GRI # GRI Standard Title Disclosure Title Response/Location
102-1 General disclosures Name of the organization Atmos Energy Corporation
102-2 General disclosures Activities, brands, products, and services• Atmos Energy 2020 10-K
• Part I Item 1. Business
• Atmos Energy 2020 Proxy Statement
102-3 General disclosures Location of headquartersAtmos Energy Corporation
5430 LBJ Freeway
Suite 1800
Dallas, Texas 75240
102-4 General disclosures Location of operations United States
102-5 General disclosures Ownership and legal form• Atmos Energy 2020 10-K
• Part I Item 1. Business
102-6 General disclosures Markets served• Atmos Energy 2020 10-K
• Part I Item 1. Business
102-7 General disclosures Scale of the organization• Atmos Energy 2020 10-K
• Part I Item 1. Business
102-8 General disclosuresInformation on employees and other 
workers• Atmos Energy 2020 10-K
• Part I Item 1. Business
• Atmos Energy 2020 Corporate Responsibility 
and Sustainability Report: Employees
• Atmos Energy Website
• Corporate Responsibility: Employees
• Careers: Working at Atmos Energy
102-9 General disclosuresSupply Chain: A description of the 
organization’s supply chain, including 
its main elements as they relate to the 
organization’s activities, primary brands, 
products, and servicesThe Supply Chain Management Group is part 
of the Atmos Energy shared services division. 
The mission is to provide best-value supply chain 
solutions through innovative insights with a strong 
focus on customer service and our company’s 
culture. Our core supply chain services include new 
product approvals, contract review and corporate 
and operational sourcing, fleet and equipment 
management, procurement and management of 
our small businesses and supplier relationships.
102-10 General disclosuresSupply Chain: Significant changes to the 
organization and its supply chain: changes 
in the location of, or changes in, operations, 
including facility openings, closings, and 
expansions; changes in the share capital 
structure and other capital formation, 
maintenance, and alteration operations (for 
private-sector organizations); changes in 
the location of suppliers, the structure of the 
supply chain, or relationships with suppliers, 
including selection and terminationThere were no significant changes to Atmos Energy 
Supply Chain in the past year.General Disclosures
GRI #GRI # GRI Standard TitleGRI Standard Title Disclosure TitleDisclosure Title Response/LocationResponse/Location
10 2-11 General disclosuresPrecautionary 
principle or approach• Atmos Energy 2020 10-K
• Part I Item 1A. Risk Factors
• Atmos Energy 2020 Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability 
Report: Environment
• Board Committee Charters:
• Audit Committee
• Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee
102-12 General disclosures External initiativesAtmos Energy 2020 Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability 
Report: Environment
102-13 General disclosuresMembership of 
associations• American Gas Association
• Belzoni Humphreys Development Foundation
• Building Owners and Managers Association
• Chamber of Commerce
• Common Ground Alliance
• Daughters of the American Revolution 
• Economic Development Council
• Gas Technology Institute
• Home Builders Association
• Iberia Industrial Development Foundation
• Kentucky Association of Manufacturers
• Kentucky Gas Association
• Louisiana Association of Business
• Louisiana Chemical Industry Alliance
• Louisiana Gas Association
• Louisiana Restaurant Association
• Middle Tennessee Industrial
• Mississippi Hospitality and Restaurant
• Mississippi Manufacturers Association Membership
• Mississippi Partnership for Economic Development Inc.
• National Energy and Utility Affordability Coalition
• Northeast Tennessee Regional Economic Partnership
• Operations Technology Development Co.
• Our Nation’s Energy Future (ONE Future)
• Pipeline Association for Public Awareness
• Prowers Economic Prosperity
• Rotary Club
• Southern Gas Association
• Society for Information
• Tarrant Regional Transportation Coalition
• Tennessee Economic Development Council
• Tennessee Gas Association
• Women’s Energy Network
102-14 General disclosuresStatement from senior 
decision-makerAtmos Energy 2020 Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability 
Report: Letter to Our Stakeholders 
102-15 General disclosuresKey impacts, risks,  
and opportunitiesAtmos Energy 2020 10-K
• Part I Item 1A. Risk Factors
• Part II Item 7 . Management’s Discussion and Analysis  
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
102-16 General disclosuresValues, principles, 
standards, and norms 
of behaviorOur vision is for Atmos Energy to be the safest provider of natural gas 
services. We will be recognized for exceptional customer service, for 
being a great employer, and for achieving superior financial results.
• Atmos Energy 2020 Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability 
Report:
• Employees
• Corporate Governance
• Atmos Energy Website: Careers; Diversity & Culture
ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATIONAPPENDIX APPENDIX
General Disclosures
GRI # GRI Standard Title Disclosure Title Response/Location
102-17 General disclosuresMechanisms for advice and 
concerns about ethicsAtmos Energy Code of Conduct
We are committed to continuous improvement as we work 
to achieve our vision of being the safest provider of natural 
gas. We provide an anonymous Compliance Helpline for 
employees, contractors, and the public to give feedback 
or make recommendations for improvements in safety, risk 
identification, prevention, and mitigation at:  
1.866.543.4065 or www.compliancehelpline.com/
welcomeAtmosEnergy.jsp.
102-18 General disclosures Governance structure• Atmos Energy 2020 Corporate Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report: Corporate Governance
• Atmos Energy Website 
• Corporate Responsibility: Corporate Governance
• Atmos Energy Governance Documents
• Atmos Energy About – Board of Directors
102-19 General disclosures Delegating authority• Atmos Energy’s Corporate Governance Guidelines 
generally speak to the delegation of authority to 
management.
• Atmos Energy’s Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, 
and Safety Committee Charter does not specifically state 
that the authority is delegated, but refers to the Committee 
overseeing company policies on these items, which 
presumably management is responsible for.
102-20 General disclosuresExecutive-level responsibility 
for economic, environmental, 
and social topics• Atmos Energy 2020 Corporate Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report: Corporate Governance
• Atmos Energy Website: About – Leadership
102-21 General disclosuresConsulting stakeholders on 
economic, environmental, 
and social topics• Atmos Energy 2020 Corporate Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report:
• Letter to Our Stakeholders
• Fiscal 2020 Corporate Responsibility and  
Sustainability Highlights
102-22 General disclosuresComposition of the highest 
governance body and its 
committeesAtmos Energy 2020 Proxy Statement
102-23 General disclosuresChair of the highest 
governance bodyKim R. Cocklin
102-24 General disclosuresNominating and selecting the 
highest governance body• Atmos Energy 2020 Proxy Statement
• Atmos Energy 2020 Corporate Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report: Corporate Governance
• Atmos Energy Corporate Governance documents
102-25 General disclosures Conflicts of interest• Atmos Energy 2020 Proxy Statement
• Atmos Energy Corporate Governance Guidelines
• Atmos Energy Code of Conduct
• Atmos Energy Corporate Responsibility Website: 
Governance
102-26 General disclosuresRole of highest governance 
body in setting purpose, 
values, and strategyAtmos Energy Corporate Responsibility Website:
• Corporate Governance
• Atmos Energy Governance DocumentsGeneral Disclosures
GRI # GRI Standard Title Disclosure Title Response/Location
102-27 General disclosuresCollective knowledge of highest 
governance bodyMeasures taken to develop and enhance the highest 
governance body’s collective knowledge include regular 
updates by senior management on financial, social, and 
environmental issues that impact Atmos Energy and the 
natural gas industry. Ad-hoc updates include operational 
reports, published articles, academic white papers, 
and research reports on the defined topics, and peer 
company publications. These updates are in addition to 
the Company’s quarterly Board and committee meetings 
where members of senior management provide and review 
educational materials on these topics.
102-28 General disclosuresEvaluating the highest 
governance body’s 
performanceAtmos Energy 2020 Proxy Statement
102-29 General disclosuresIdentifying and managing 
economic, environmental,  
and social impacts• Atmos Energy 2020 10-K
• Item 1A. Risk Factors
• Item 7 . Management’s Discussion and Analysis of 
Financial Condition and Results of Operations
• Atmos Energy 2020 Corporate Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report: Corporate Governance
• Board Committee Charters:
• Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability,  
& Safety Committee
• Audit Committee
102-30 General disclosuresEffectiveness of risk 
management processes• Atmos Energy 2020 10-K
• Item 1A. Risk Factors
• Item 7 . Management’s Discussion and Analysis of 
Financial Condition and Results of Operations
• Board Committee Charters: Audit Committee
• Risk Management and Compliance Committee Charter
• Atmos Energy 2020 Proxy Statement
102-31 General disclosuresReview of economic, 
environmental, and social topicsBoard Committee Charters:
• Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, & Safety 
Committee
• Audit Committee
102-32 General disclosuresHighest governance body’s role 
in sustainability reportingCorporate Responsibility, Sustainability, & Safety 
Committee of the Board of Directors
102-33 General disclosures Communicating critical concernsAtmos Energy 2020 Proxy Statement
• P.O. Box 650205, Dallas, Texas 75265-0205
• Company’s Compliance Helpline at 1-866-543-4065
• https:/ /www.compliance-helpline.com/  
welcomeAtmosEnergy.jsp
102-34 General disclosuresNature and total number of 
critical concernsThere were no critical concerns reported to the Board  
of Directors.
102-35 General disclosures Remuneration policiesAtmos Energy 2020 Proxy Statement:
• Executive Compensation Program Objectives  
and Strategy
ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATIONGeneral Disclosures
GRI # GRI Standard Title Disclosure Title Response/Location
102-36 General disclosuresProcess for determining 
remunerationAtmos Energy 2020 Proxy Statement:
• Executive Compensation Program Objectives  
and Strategy
102-37 General disclosuresStakeholders’ involvement in 
remunerationAtmos Energy 2020 Proxy Statement
102-38 General disclosuresAnnual total compensation 
ratioAtmos Energy 2020 Proxy Statement
102-39 General disclosuresPercentage increase in annual 
total compensation ratioAtmos Energy 2020 Proxy Statement
102-40 General disclosures List of stakeholder groups• Government and Regulatory Entities
• Governors Office, State Public Utility Commissions, and 
City Councils
• Customers and Communities
• Customer advocacy groups, economic development 
groups, NGOs, local news, engineering/consulting 
firms, commercial and industrial customers
• Peer Utilities and Associations
• Employees
• Investors
• Suppliers
• Midstream gas, RNG suppliers, contractors, materials 
suppliers, technology suppliers
102-41 General disclosuresCollective bargaining 
agreementsAtmos Energy does not have collective bargaining 
agreements in place.
102-42 General disclosuresIdentifying and selecting 
stakeholdersStakeholders are identified through their direct engagement 
with Atmos Energy (Employees, Customers, Investors, 
Suppliers, Regulators) and through the identification of 
stakeholders that have a unique and/or a vested interest 
in our organization (community partners, environmental 
agencies, customer advocacy groups, industry associations).
102-43 General disclosuresApproach to stakeholder 
engagementAtmos Energy engages with our stakeholders through 
multiple channels. The engagement is tailored to address 
the stakeholder audience and the information being 
communicated. For direct communications with stakeholders 
we engage using email, phone calls, and in-person or 
virtual meetings. For indirect engagement we utilize our 
website, social media platforms, surveys, printed mailings, 
and marketing campaigns. In addition to these methods we 
engage with investors through quarterly and annual earnings 
calls, through 1 x 1 meetings in conferences, virtual meetings, 
or upon request. We also engage with employees through 
satisfaction surveys and our annual review process. None 
of this engagement was undertaken in connection with the 
preparation of this report.General Disclosures
GRI #GRI # GRI Standard TitleGRI Standard Title Disclosure TitleDisclosure Title Response/LocationResponse/Location
102-44 General disclosuresKey topics and concerns raised 
(stakeholder engagement)Throughout the year we engage with stakeholder groups in a 
variety of ways to gather feedback related to Atmos Energy’s 
operations, policies, procedures, and industry-specific 
issues. This engagement allows us to proactively address 
topics and potential concerns raised by different stakeholder 
groups. Key topics include:
• The role of natural gas in the domestic energy portfolio of 
the future
• Methane emissions and environmental impact
• Establishing goals and targets and setting a timeline for 
each action
• Renewable natural gas
• Customer advocacy
102-45 General disclosuresEntities included in the 
consolidated financial 
statementsAtmos Energy 2020 10-K
• Part I Item 1. Business
102-46 General disclosuresDefining report content and 
topic boundaries (materiality)We are following the Global Report Indicator (GRI) 
Standards “Core” reporting methodology as the basis  
of our disclosures.
102-48 General disclosures Restatements of information No restatement of information
102-49 General disclosures Changes in reporting No changes in reporting
102-50 General disclosures Reporting period Fiscal Year 2020 (October 1, 2019 – September 30, 2020)
102-51 General disclosures Date of most recent reportThe Atmos Energy’s Corporate Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report, published in November 2020
102-52 General disclosures Reporting cycleIt is Atmos Energy’s intent to publish a Corporate 
Responsibility and Sustainability Report annually
102-53 General disclosuresContact point for questions 
regarding the reportinvestorrelations@atmosenergy.com
102-54 General disclosuresClaims of reporting in 
accordance with the GRI 
StandardsThis report references the 2016 GRI Reporting Standards
102-55 General disclosures GRI content index This index
ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATIONAPPENDIX APPENDIXAPPENDIX APPENDIX
Economic Performance
GRI # GRI Standard Title Disclosure Title Response/Location
201-1 Economic performanceDirect economic value 
generated and distributedAtmos Energy 2020 10-K
• Part II
201-2 Economic performanceFinancial implications and 
other risks and opportunities 
due to climate changeAtmos Energy 2020 10-K
• Part I Item 1A. Risk Factors
• Part II Item 7 . Management’s Discussion and Analysis of 
Financial Condition and Results of Operations
201-3 Economic performanceDefined benefit plan 
obligations and other 
retirement plansAtmos Energy 2020 10-K
• Part II Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
201-4 Economic performanceFinancial assistance 
received from governmentAtmos Energy received no government assistance in Fiscal  
Year 2020.
202-2 Economic performanceProportion of senior 
management hired from the 
local community100% of senior management is hired from the local community.
203-1 Economic performanceInfrastructure investments 
and services supportedThe infrastructure investments made by Atmos Energy support 
local economies and stakeholders. Through infrastructure 
investments we promote local economies by providing jobs in 
the communities where we operate and as customers to local 
business and suppliers. These investments allow us to provide 
a clean and reliable fuel source to our customers and operate 
safely which is to the benefit of all stakeholders.
203-2 Economic performanceSignificant indirect 
economic impactsAtmos Energy 2020 Corporate Responsibility and  
Sustainability Report:
• Communities
• Environment
Atmos Energy Website
• Fueling Safe and Thriving Communities
• Corporate Responsibility
• Communities
• EnvironmentEconomic Performance
GRI # GRI Standard Title Disclosure Title Response/Location
204-1 Economic performanceProportion of spending on 
local suppliersAtmos Energy partners with a variety of groups to ensure the 
safe delivery of natural gas. We are committed to enterprise 
decision making and a proactive approach in identifying 
opportunities through our suppliers, employees, and 
customers. We encourage our suppliers to build relationships 
with Atmos Energy employees, as the better they understand 
our needs the better product support they can provide. We 
also support local hiring initiatives to ensure local suppliers 
and contractors have the opportunity to work with us. At least 
28% of our budget has been spent with small and diverse 
businesses each of the last three years, and 99% of our 
vendors are headquartered in the United States.
205-1 Economic performanceOperations assessed for risks 
related to corruptionAtmos Energy Corporate Governance Documents:
• Corporate Governance Guidelines
• Director Independence
• Code of Conduct
• Political Activities Policy
205-2 Economic performanceCommunication and training 
about anti- corruption 
policies and procedures• Atmos Energy Code of Conduct
• 100% of Atmos Energy active employees completed our 
annual Code of Conduct training.
• Atmos Energy political activities policy
205-3 Economic performanceConfirmed incidents of 
corruption and actions takenAtmos Energy has had no confirmed incidents of corruption or 
actions taken.
206-1 Economic performanceLegal actions for anti- 
competitive behavior, anti-
trust and monopoly practicesAtmos Energy 2020 10-K 
• Part I Item 3. Legal Proceedings
ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATIONEconomic Performance
GRI # GRI Standard Title Disclosure Title Response/Location
305-1 EmissionsDirect (Scope 1) GHG 
emissionsAtmos Energy Corporate Responsibility Website: 
Environment – AGA voluntary reporting tool
• EPA filing subpart NN and W
305-2 EmissionsEnergy indirect (Scope 2) 
GHG emissionsAtmos Energy Corporate Responsibility Website: 
Environment – AGA voluntary reporting tool
• EPA filing subpart NN and W
305-4 Emissions GHG emissions intensityAtmos Energy Corporate Responsibility Website: 
Environment – AGA voluntary reporting tool
305-5 Emissions Reduction of GHG emissionsAtmos Energy Corporate Responsibility Website: 
Environment – AGA voluntary reporting tool
305-6 EmissionsEmissions of ozone-depleting 
substances (ODS)Atmos Energy does not release ozone-depleting substances.
305-7 EmissionsNitrogen oxides (NOX), 
sulfur oxides (SOX), and other 
significant air emissionsAtmos Energy Corporate Responsibility Website: 
Environment – AGA voluntary reporting tool
306-4 Effluents and waste Transport of hazardous waste Atmos Energy does not transport hazardous waste.
307-1Environmental 
complianceNon-compliance with 
environmental laws and 
regulationsAtmos Energy has had no material fine for non-compliance 
with environmental laws and regulations.Social Indicators
GRI # GRI Standard Title Disclosure Title Response/Location
401-1 EmploymentNew hires and employee 
turnoverAtmos Energy 2020 Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability 
Report: Employees
Over the last five years, of the approximately 2,000 employees hired, 
31% are women and 44% are minority.
Total employee turnover, including retirements, for calendar year 
2019 was 7%, including 4% voluntary turnover.
401-2 EmploymentBenefits provided to full-
time employees that are 
not provided to temporary 
or part-time employeesAtmos Energy does not provide health or life insurance benefits to 
temporary or part-time employees. Additionally, part-time employees 
receive a reduced allocation of time-off benefits.
403-1Occupational health  
and safetyWorkers representation in 
formal joint management-
worker health and safety 
committees100% of Atmos Energy employees are represented in formal joint 
management-worker health and safety committees.
403-2Occupational health  
and safetyTypes of injury and rates 
of injury, occupational 
diseases, lost days, 
absenteeism, and number 
of work-related fatalities• Atmos Energy 2020 Methane Emissions Report
• Atmos Energy 2020 Corporate Responsibility and  
Sustainability Report:
• Employees
• Atmos Energy Corporate Responsibility Website:
• Employees
403-3Occupational health  
and safetyWorkers with high 
incidence or high risk of 
diseases related to their 
occupationAtmos Energy has not identified a high incidence or risk of work-related 
diseases. In March 2020 we moved to a virtual work environment out 
of an abundance of caution due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
404-1 Training and educationAverage hours of training 
per year per employeeIn fiscal year 2020 we completed 226,235 training hours, which 
equals approximately 48 average training hours per employee.
Our internal training programs focus primarily on Operations, Safety, 
Customer Service, and our foundational employee & leadership 
development programs. Of the employees who participate in these 
trainings, the average hours of training is:
Average HoursAverage Hours
Technical Training 51.6
Employee Development 9.7
Client Service Organization 85.5
Safety Training 18.1
ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATIONAPPENDIX APPENDIXAPPENDIX APPENDIX
Social Indicators
GRI # GRI Standard Title Disclosure Title Response/Location
404-2 Training and educationPrograms for upgrading 
employee skills and transition 
assistance programsWe provide our employees with the training, tools, and 
opportunities to grow and develop, which is vital to our long-
term sustainability. Additionally, we want our employees to 
take their education as far as they desire. We provide support 
through the Robert W. Best Education Assistance program, 
which provides support for employees to work toward 
advanced technical training or a college degree.
404-3 Training and educationPercentage of employees 
receiving regular performance 
and career development reviewsSubstantially all of Atmos Energy’s full-time employees receive 
annual performance and career development reviews.
405-1Diversity and equal 
opportunityDiversity of governance bodies 
and employees• Atmos Energy 2020 Proxy Statement
• Atmos Energy 2020 Corporate Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report:
• Employees
• Corporate Governance
• Atmos Energy Corporate Responsibility Website:
• Employees
• Corporate Governance
407-1Freedom of association 
and collective 
bargainingOperations and suppliers in which 
the right to freedom of association 
and collective bargaining may 
be at riskThere is no significant risk.
411-1Rights of indigenous 
peoplesIncidents of violations involving 
rights of indigenous peoplesAtmos Energy has had no known incidents of violations 
involving rights of indigenous peoples.
412-2Human rights 
assessmentEmployee training on human 
rights policies or proceduresAtmos Energy Code of Conduct
100% of Atmos Energy active employees completed our 
annual Code of Conduct training.
413-1 Local communitiesOperations with local community 
engagement, impact assessments, 
and development programs• Atmos Energy 2020 Corporate Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report:
• Communities
• Environment
• Atmos Energy Website
• Fueling Safe and Thriving Communities
• Corporate Responsibility
• Communities
• Environment
413-2 Local communitiesOperations with significant actual 
and potential negative impacts on 
local communitiesAtmos Energy Website
• Pipeline Replacement Projects
• Corporate Responsibility
• EnvironmentSocial Indicators
GRI # GRI Standard Title Disclosure Title Response/Location
415-1 Public policy Political contributionsAtmos Energy’s Political Activities Policy provides guidelines 
on company lobbying and political spending activities as 
well as engagement by our employees in the overall political 
process.
Atmos Energy Corporate Governance Documents:
• Political Activities Policy
417-1 Marketing and labelingRequirements for product and 
service information and labelingAtmos Energy complies with all state and federal requirements 
related to identification and labeling as it applies to our 
natural gas distribution and transmission business.
417-2 Marketing and labelingIncidents of non-compliance 
concerning product and service 
information and labelingAtmos Energy has not had any non-compliance concerning 
product and service information and labeling.
417-3 Marketing and labelingIncidents of non-compliance 
concerning marketing 
communicationsAtmos Energy has not had any non-compliance concerning 
marketing communications.
418-1 Customer privacySubstantiated complaints 
concerning breaches of 
customer privacy and losses of 
customer dataAtmos Energy has received no substantiated complaints 
concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of 
customer data.
419-1Socioeconomic 
complianceNon-compliance with laws and 
regulations in the social and 
economic areaAtmos Energy has had no material fines for non-compliance 
with laws and regulations.
ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATIONThis index is designed to provide information from the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards. It identifies where we 
make certain disclosures and provides unaudited information related to the reporting standards.ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATIONAPPENDIX APPENDIX
2020 Methane Emissions Report
Atmos Energy is committed to practices that reduce methane emissions from our 
transmission and distribution systems, including infrastructure renewal programs to  
replace aging steel and cast iron distribution pipelines.
As part of Atmos Energy’s efforts to reduce methane emissions, we joined the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) 
Natural Gas Methane Challenge Program as a founding partner in March 2016. As part of the Natural Gas Methane 
Challenge Program, a voluntary partnership that encourages oil and natural gas companies to improve efficiency and 
reduce methane emissions, Atmos Energy set a goal to replace cast iron and unprotected steel mains at an annual rate 
of 1.5 percent. We have performed, and expect to continue to perform, above our stated goal. In 2020 Atmos Energy 
joined ONE Future, which is a coalition of natural gas companies working together to voluntarily reduce methane 
emissions across the natural gas value chain. In addition, Atmos Energy has a goal to reduce methane emissions by 
50 percent from 2017 to 2035 in its natural gas distribution system.* The Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability & 
Safety Committee of the Board of Directors oversees these goals as well as the Company’s other sustainability and 
environmental practices. The Committee’s charter can be found on atmosenergy.com .
Investing in Technology to Improve Safety
Atmos Energy utilizes state-of-the-art instrumentation for leak 
detection, monitoring, and leak grading to enhance safety for 
the public, our customers and employees, and to protect the 
environment. Atmos Energy reviews advances in technology 
as they are brought to market and incorporates them as 
deemed appropriate for our leak detection and monitoring 
efforts. This includes advanced mobile leak detection 
technology, including cavity ring-down spectroscopy (CRDS) 
for surveying our distribution system that is 1,000 times more 
sensitive than legacy technologies. As of December 31, 2019, 
Atmos Energy had 13 advanced mobile leak detection 
technology units mounted and operating in vehicles.
To monitor compressors and storage fields, we use FLIR 
cameras as well as RMLD, FID, and CGI equipment. RMLD, 
CGI, CRDS, and OMD equipment is used to conduct 
inspections and surveys of buried natural gas distribution and 
transmission pipelines. The equipment utilized to perform leak 
surveys is dependent on several different criteria, including  
but not limited to safety, weather, instrument capabilities, 
location, application, and operating experience.New Technologies Keep 
Everyone Safer
We are working with industry and technology 
partners to develop and evaluate new 
technologies to enhance safety. For years we 
have partnered with the Gas Technology 
Institute, which develops technology-based 
solutions for the natural gas industry. We were 
among the early participants in our industry to 
evaluate technologies that had the potential to 
be adapted to our business. This partnership has 
produced tools we are incorporating into our 
daily processes, such as mobile technology that 
captures critical infrastructure data during 
construction and operations.
Modernizing Infrastructure 
Reduces Carbon Footprint
Replacing pipelines reduces leaks and methane 
emissions. We track and report greenhouse gas 
emissions in accordance with the Environmental 
Protection Agency’s (EPA) Greenhouse Gas 
Reporting Rule, which requires reporting of 
greenhouse gas data and other relevant information 
from large sources and suppliers in the United 
States. In addition, all of our operating divisions 
report to various state agencies that have 
environmental jurisdiction over our activities. 
Since 2012, we’ve replaced over 4,400 miles of 
pipe. Over the next five years, we plan to replace 
between 5,000 and 6,000 miles of distribution and 
transmission pipes. Included in this total is the 
replacement of all remaining cast iron main by the 
end of 2021. To determine the schedule for non-cast 
iron pipeline replacements, we use a risk-based 
prioritization model that considers factors like the 
pipe’s age, location, material, leak history, 
environmental factors, and more.Distribution Miles Replacement Rate
1,000
800
600
400
200
0
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 21-25EMiles
Bare Steel, Cast Iron, Vintage Plastics
Other Risk-Based Materials
Transmission Miles Replacement Rate
200
180
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 21-25EMiles
*Based on 2017 DOT inventory, projected 2035 inventory, and calculated using 40 CFR 98, 
Subpart W Natural Gas Distribution Emission Factors. The 2017 baseline is 35,386 MT CH4.OSHA
Recordable Injury Rate  
(per 200,000  
hours worked)3.00
2014
2.88
2019
DART
Days Away/Restricted  
Duty/Transfer Injury Rate 
(per 200,000  
hours worked)1.72
2014
1.69
2019
RMVC
Reportable Motor  
Vehicle Collision Rate  
(per 1,000,000  
miles driven)5.46
2014
5.25
2019
Leak Detection Technologies we use:
• Remote methane leak detection (RMLD)
• Flame ionization detector (FID)
• Combustible gas detector (CGI)
• Optical methane detector (OMD)
• Forward-looking infrared camera (FLIR)ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATIONAPPENDIX APPENDIX
Leak Detection
Atmos Energy surveys the approximately 75,000 miles of our distribution and transmission pipelines at rates and 
frequencies that meet and often exceed state and federal guidelines. Monitoring frequency of pipelines is determined 
by federal and state pipeline safety codes, accepted industry standards, and internal Atmos Energy practices and 
procedures. The technology used to complete a pipeline leak survey may vary, depending on the conditions at the 
time of survey. It is our practice to use the instrument that is best suited for the existing conditions to complete pipeline 
surveys. Here is a brief summary of the frequency of leak surveys of our transmission and distribution systems:
Transmission Pipelines
• In many of our more densely populated areas, 
transmission pipelines are visually surveyed twice per 
month and incorporate the use of aircraft, where 
appropriate, to look for oxygen-starved vegetation, 
right-of-way encroachment, erosion, landslides, and 
possible security threats.
• Our Mississippi and West Texas divisions use aircraft 
to leak survey annually. Our Atmos Pipeline – Texas 
and Mid-Tex divisions use aircraft to leak survey twice 
per year.
• Technicians leak survey all pipeline road crossings 
quarterly using the appropriate leak survey equipment.
• Atmos Energy also completes annual visual 
vegetation/leak surveys on all transmission pipelines 
using highly trained technicians performing patrols.Distribution Pipelines
• Distribution mains located outside of business districts 
are surveyed at least as often as prescribed by federal 
and state regulations (with the maximum being five 
years) using the various technologies discussed on the 
previous left-hand page of this appendix under 
Investing in Technology to Improve Safety .
• For distribution pipelines located within business 
districts, a survey is required and completed at  
least annually.
• Our Texas jurisdictions, Mid-Tex and West Texas, 
contain over 95 percent of our unprotected steel 
distribution pipe inventory and Mid-Tex contains 100 
percent of our remaining cast iron pipe inventory. In 
these jurisdictions, we leak survey at intervals that are 
more frequent than the federal requirements. For 
coated steel pipe, we survey at least once every three 
years, bare steel we survey at least once every two 
years, and cast iron at least once every 12 months. 
We are committed to replacing all remaining cast iron 
main by 2021.
• In Texas, distribution main segments that are identified 
as high relative risk are scheduled for replacement or 
they are leak surveyed within 12 months.
• In Kansas, coated steel pipe and plastic pipe are 
surveyed at least once every three years, and bare 
steel is surveyed at least annually.
• For our other jurisdictions, we leak survey at least  
as often as state regulations prescribe. However, we 
evaluate performing leak surveys in accordance  
with the more stringent regulations of other states in 
our footprint.Grading a Leak
Leaks identified on the Atmos 
Energy transmission and 
distribution systems are 
investigated and graded in 
accordance with our procedures, 
which meet or exceed the 
requirements of state or federal 
regulation. As required by 
regulation, these procedures 
categorize leaks in three grades:
At Atmos Energy compressor stations subject to New Source Performance Standard Subpart OOOOa, leak surveys are conducted quarterly using a FLIR camera. Any detected leaks are 
tagged. Leaks are repaired within 30 days of detection or as soon as repair parts can be obtained. Any component found to be leaking is checked using a soap and water test within 
30 days after it has been repaired. Annual reports summarizing the results of all leak surveys are submitted to state regulatory authorities.Grade 1
Leaks which represent an immediate hazard to persons and/or property. 
These leaks are addressed and repaired immediately.
Grade 2
Leaks recognized as being non-hazardous at the time of detection but 
having the potential to become a future hazard. In general, these leaks 
must be scheduled for repair or eliminated within one year. Our Kansas, 
Mid-Tex, and West Texas distribution systems collectively make up  
60 percent of our total distribution system. Grade 2 leaks on these systems 
are repaired within six months.
Grade 3
Leaks that are non-hazardous at the time of detection and can be expected 
to remain non-hazardous. Grade 3 leaks on our Kansas, Mid-Tex, and West 
Texas distributions systems are repaired within three years and some within 
two and a half years. In jurisdictions that do not prescribe a repair interval 
for Grade 3 leaks, we target these to be repaired within 36 months.1
2
3ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATIONAPPENDIX
Frequency of Monitoring
The frequency of monitoring conditions along our transmission right-of-ways (ROWs) is based on criteria documented 
in our O&M Manual that have been established to meet or exceed federal and state regulations. Inspections and 
maintenance work are performed regularly and pipeline segments are replaced when deemed necessary to maintain 
the safe delivery of natural gas to Atmos Energy customers.
The Atmos Energy Federal Pipeline Integrity Management (PIM) program provides for enhanced preventive and 
mitigative measures already in place to maintain the safe and reliable operation of our transmission pipeline system. 
The PIM program includes risk modeling that takes into account both the risks posed to our pipeline systems and the 
potential impacts of those risks. High consequence areas (HCAs) along the pipeline are typically densely populated 
areas or rural areas containing identified sites adjacent to the pipeline that pose considerably more risk to human life. 
Identified sites may be churches, schools, hospitals, daycare centers, assisted-living facilities, campgrounds, or other 
buildings and outside areas where people congregate. Additional inspections of pipelines within HCAs, as well as 
certain pipelines outside of HCAs, are conducted in accordance with the Atmos Energy federal and state PIM programs.
The frequency of monitoring the conditions of our distribution pipelines is based on our O&M Manual and our 
Distribution Integrity Management (DIM) program, both of which have been established in conjunction with federal and 
state regulations. Distribution pipeline segments are regularly subjected to inspection and maintenance work, such as 
leak surveys and corrosion control, and are replaced as necessary. Our DIM program includes risk modeling that takes 
into account both the risks posed to our distribution pipeline systems and the potential consequences of those risks.
Commitment to Safety and Protecting Our Environment
We are committed to replacing all remaining cast iron main by the end of 2021.
In addition, Atmos Energy utilizes a number of practices in its day-to-day operations to prevent or reduce methane 
emissions. Some of the practices include, but are not limited to, the following:
• Drawing down transmission line pressure when repairing or working on the pipelines to reduce natural gas 
released to the atmosphere.
• Rerouting gas to minimize or prevent venting or blowdowns.
• Installing pipeline stopples and bypasses as necessary to maintain operations and minimize extent of blowdown.
• Utilizing flares to combust methane instead of releasing methane to the atmosphere.
Finally, the Company’s methane emissions intensity rates for 2019 are as follows:
• Atmos Energy – 0.40 percent based on the amount of natural gas received at city gate stations (34,134 MT CH4 
total emitted in 2019).
• The emission intensity is calculated using EPA-reported fugitive emissions data and Company data of natural gas 
distribution system volumetric throughput. The EPA-reported emissions data is based on a combination of EPA 
emission factors and data calculated using the leak testing described above.
You may find more information on our commitment to pipeline safety on our website at atmosenergy.com.APPENDIX APPENDIX
2019 DOT Report
Distribution
Miles of Main TN VA CO KS KY LA MS MTX WTX Total
Steel – Coated (Un) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4,086 0 4,086
Steel – Coated (Pr) 824 311 1,162 237 2,217 4,983 3,715 4,407 4,644 22,501
Steel – Bare (Un) 0 0 31 0 85 0 0 2,767 241 3,124
Steel – Bare (Pr) 0 0 38 1,381 25 218 43 169 0 1,874
Cast Iron 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 356 0 356
Plastic PVC 0 0 280 42 0 43 0 0 135 500
Plastic PE 2,821 400 1,702 2,461 1,740 3,469 2,842 19,558 2,761 37, 754
Plastic ABS 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 85 85
Plastic Other 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 273 0 273
Other 0 0 0 0 14 0 0 0 0 14
Total 3,645 712 3,214 4,120 4,081 8,713 6,601 31,615 7,8 6 6 70,566Distribution
Vintage TN VA CO KS KY LA MS MTX WTX Total
Pre-40s 0 1 0 15 4 28 306 363 470 1,187
40s 0 0 112 0 67 32 493 357 302 1,363
50s 106 1 238 4 328 676 789 1,171 2,232 5,543
60s 366 216 445 11 741 356 768 1,771 1,257 5,931
70s 270 55 461 25 366 2,297 926 3,262 788 8,450
80s 776 146 457 48 402 2,106 844 4,256 547 9,582
90s 987 140 458 66 583 1,535 892 4,193 643 9,497
00s 608 81 818 223 282 757 1,054 3,253 471 7, 547
10s 518 58 225 411 529 920 529 4,195 1,158 8,545
Unknown 15 14 0 3,316 780 4 0 8,795 0 12,924
Total 3,644 712 3,214 4,120 4,081 8,713 6,601 31,616 7,8 6 8 70,568
Services
Steel Services 14,839 1,758 29,548 33,980 73,882 234,329 113,013 106,543 204,008 811,9 0 0
Copper 0 0 0 0 0 0 171 0 0 171
Other 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 37 7, 870 0 37 7,870
Plastic 146,254 21,928 75,948 118 , 5 0 9 107,556 178,895 191,136 1,273,100 197, 016 2,310,342
Total 161,093 23,686 105,496 152,489 181,438 413,224 304,320 1, 757, 513 401,024 3,500,283
ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATIONAPPENDIX APPENDIX
ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATIONTransmission
Miles of Transmission Pipelines
Vintage TN/VA K Y/A E H MS MTX CO/KSLA/TLA/
PineWTX APT Total
Pre 40s 0 0 17 0 0 2 28 164 211
40s 0 0 1 23 1 0 6 428 459
50s 0 30 69 81 0 1 36 660 878
60s 5 29 90 25 1 0 15 1,132 1,297
70s 0 81 4 54 0 21 3 959 1,123
80s 9 8 24 39 3 50 4 229 367
90s 47 35 67 54 3 1 7 653 868
00s 4 0 22 9 0 0 2 360 397
10s 1 0 0 24 0 5 19 1,095 1,145
Unknown 0 8 0 0 0 0 0 3 11
Total 65 190 296 310 9 81 121 5,684 6,756
Diameter
< 6" 0 21 28 0 3 4 11 846 914
6" thru 10" 39 104 259 86 4 30 64 2,003 2,588
> 10" thru 20" 26 65 9 209 1 24 46 1,494 1,875
> 20" thru 28" 0 0 0 6 0 24 0 421 451
> 28" 0 0 0 8 0 0 0 919 928
Total 65 190 296 310 9 81 121 5,684 6,756Transmission
Miles of Transmission Pipelines
Class Location TN/VA K Y/A E H MS MTX CO/KSLA/TLA/
PineWTX APT Total
Class 1 HCA 0 0 2 1 0 0 1 12 16
Class 1 Non-HCA 12 134 198 74 9 34 78 4,676 5,215
Class 2 HCA 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 13 15
Class 2 Non-HCA 27 23 70 45 0 12 13 532 722
Class 3 HCA 8 1 29 97 0 13 4 191 344
Class 3 Non-HCA 18 27 0 85 0 22 25 256 433
Class 4 HCA 0 0 0 6 0 0 0 3 9
Class 4 Non-HCA 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1
Total 65 185 301 310 9 81 121 5,684 6,756
Pipe Material
Coated Steel (Un) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Coated Steel (Pr) 66 190 296 308 8 80 121 5,367 6,435
Bare Steel (Un) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Bare Steel (Pr) 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 175 177
Cast Iron 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Wrought Iron 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Plastic 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 143 144
Composite 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Other 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Total 66 190 296 310 9 81 121 5,684 6,757APPENDIX APPENDIX
ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATIONLeaks
Cause of Leak 
Corrosion CO KS KY LA MS MTX TN VA WTX Total
Hazardous Main 13 25 4 21 14 263 3 1 67 411
Non-Hazardous Main 46 128 42 264 63 1,288 13 7 296 2,147
Total Main 59 153 46 285 77 1,551 16 8 363 2,558
Hazardous Service 12 100 22 76 22 317 7 6 51 613
Non-Hazardous Service 36 100 91 469 38 487 21 6 164 1,412
Total Service 48 200 113 545 60 804 28 12 215 2,025
Total Corrosion  107 353 159 830 137 2,355 44 20 578 4,583
Equipment
Hazardous Main 2 5 2 13 21 206 2 0 22 273
Non-Hazardous Main 17 22 33 152 158 1,027 35 17 119 1,580
Total Main 19 27 35 165 179 1,233 37 17 141 1,853
Hazardous Service 9 25 21 86 125 1,180 30 12 56 1,544
Non-Hazardous Service 124 349 393 1,055 1,106 5,267 523 830 2,086 11,733
Total Service 133 374 414 1,141 1,231 6,447 553 842 2,142 13,277
Total Equipment 152 401 449 1,306 1,410 7, 6 8 0 590 859 2,283 15,130Leaks
Cause of Leak 
Excavation Damage CO KS KY LA MS MTX TN VA WTX Total
Hazardous Main 29 65 62 143 89 895 78 13 159 1,533
Non-Hazardous Main 1 0 1 8 5 24 1 0 1 41
Total Main 30 65 63 151 94 919 79 13 160 1,574
Hazardous Service 86 105 181 471 321 2,859 315 33 146 4,517
Non-Hazardous Service 1 4 15 33 25 71 2 0 10 161
Total Service 87 109 196 504 346 2,930 317 33 156 4,678
Total Excavation Damage 117 174 259 655 440 3,849 396 46 316 6,252
Incorrect Operations
Hazardous Main 1 2 1 5 5 1 0 1 7 23
Non-Hazardous Main 7 11 1 24 28 8 0 1 11 91
Total Main 8 13 2 29 33 9 0 2 18 114
Hazardous Service 3 5 4 8 23 8 1 2 17 71
Non-Hazardous Service 23 38 44 30 160 24 13 5 70 407
Total Service 26 43 48 38 183 32 14 7 87 478
Total Incorrect Operations 34 56 50 67 216 41 14 9 105 592APPENDIX APPENDIX
ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATIONLeaks
Cause of Leak 
Material or Welds CO KS KY LA MS MTX TN VA WTX Total
Hazardous Main 0 5 1 8 1 126 4 0 5 150
Non-Hazardous Main 3 14 2 101 17 707 6 0 12 862
Total Main 3 19 3 109 18 833 10 0 17 1,012
Hazardous Service 1 8 4 8 5 184 8 0 8 226
Non-Hazardous Service 9 32 17 65 29 255 79 1 15 502
Total Service 10 40 21 73 34 439 87 1 23 728
Total Material or Welds 13 59 24 182 52 1,272 97 1 40 1,740
Natural Forces
Hazardous Main 1 6 0 3 11 24 1 2 8 56
Non-Hazardous Main 0 24 8 0 13 47 5 3 35 135
Total Main 1 30 8 3 24 71 6 5 43 191
Hazardous Service 20 29 7 8 78 59 0 8 12 221
Non-Hazardous Service 5 90 17 4 195 89 12 26 33 471
Total Service 25 119 24 12 273 148 12 34 45 692
Total Natural Forces 26 149 32 15 297 219 18 39 88 883Leaks
Cause of Leak 
Other CO KS KY LA MS MTX TN VA WTX Total
Hazardous Main 0 1 0 4 0 12 0 0 3 20
Non-Hazardous Main 7 6 1 341 14 47 0 1 26 443
Total Main 7 7 1 345 14 59 0 1 29 463
Hazardous Service 6 17 3 20 7 32 1 1 7 94
Non-Hazardous Service 9 58 24 225 71 69 13 0 45 514
Total Service 15 75 27 245 78 101 14 1 52 608
Total Other 22 82 28 590 92 160 14 2 81 1,071
Other Outside  
Force Damage
Hazardous Main 0 3 1 7 7 24 0 0 9 51
Non-Hazardous Main 0 2 1 2 2 36 0 0 7 50
Total Main 0 5 2 9 9 60 0 0 16 101
Hazardous Service 30 87 57 218 56 120 21 7 649 1,245
Non-Hazardous Service 3 29 8 32 21 133 1 0 346 573
Total Service 33 116 65 250 77 253 22 7 995 1,818
Total Other Outside  
Force Damage33 121 67 259 86 313 22 7 1,011 1,919Leaks
Summary of All Causes CO KS KY LA MS MTX TN VA WTX Total
Hazardous Main 46 112 71 204 148 1,551 88 17 280 2,517
Non-Hazardous Main 81 207 89 892 300 3,184 60 29 507 5,349
Total Main 127 319 160 1,096 448 4,735 148 46 787 7,8 6 6
Hazardous Service 167 376 299 895 637 4,759 383 69 946 8,531
Non-Hazardous Service 210 700 609 1,913 1,645 6,395 664 868 2,769 15,773
Total Service 377 1,076 908 2,808 2,282 11,154 1,047 937 3,715 24,304
Total Leaks 504 1,395 1,068 3,904 2,730 15,889 1,195 983 4,502 32,170
Leaks Scheduled  
for Repair454 474 107 1,310 830 11,293 8 4 4,682 19,162APPENDIX
ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATIONCAUTIONARY STATEMENT
This material includes forward-looking statements. These statements can be identified because they use words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” 
“estimate,” “may,” “could,” “expect,” “forecast,” “target,” “goal,” “intend,” “objective,” “plan,” “projection,” “seek,” “strategy,” or similar words. 
Similarly, statements that describe future plans or strategies and future emissions reductions are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking 
statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the statements. 
These risks and uncertainties include the following: federal, state, and local regulatory and political trends and decisions; increased federal 
regulatory oversight and potential penalties; possible increased federal, state, and local regulation of the safety of our operations; the impact of 
climate change; the impact of greenhouse gas emissions or other legislation or regulations intended to address climate change; possible significant 
costs and liabilities resulting from pipeline integrity and other similar programs and related repairs; increased dependence on technology that may 
hinder the Company’s business if such technologies fail; our ability to continue to access the credit and capital markets to execute our business 
strategy; the impact of adverse economic conditions on our customers; and other risk factors discussed under Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, and Part II, 
Item 7 , Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Cautionary Statement for the Purposes of the Safe 
Harbor under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020, 
which should be read in conjunction with the forward-looking statements in this report. Atmos Energy undertakes no obligation to update or revise 
any of our forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION
1800 Three Lincoln Centre | 5430 LBJ Freeway | Dallas, Texas 75240