Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 1
Issued February 2018Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report
Table of contents
Letter from President/CEO  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 02
Preface   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 03
Our Company   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 05 
 Governance and Strategy   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 06 
 Ethics and Compliance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Our Associates   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29  
 Diversity and Inclusion  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 
 Associate Engagement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43 
 Fostering Employee Success  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46 
 Health, Wellness and Safety   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
Our Communities  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64 
 Volunteering and Giving   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65 
 Stakeholder Engagement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70 
 Commitment to Strengthening 
 Employability in Communities  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73Our Clients   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56 
 Research and Innovation at ADP  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
Our World  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83 
 Our Commitment to Environmental Sustainability  . . . . . . . . 84ADP is committed to being a more human resource for:Corporate Social Responsibility Report 02 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our WorldLetter from President/CEO
Since 1949, ADP has served as a trusted partner for human resources, payroll and benefits to 
thousands of employers around the world. Our mission is to help our clients attract, develop, engage and retain their most important investment – people – so they can focus on growing their business.
Today, we serve approximately 700,000 worldwide clients in more than 110 countries and 
territories, ranging from small, start-up businesses with a handful of employees to large, multinational companies with tens of thousands of employees spanning the globe. From our humble beginnings as a local New Jersey business, we have expanded internationally to become one of the world’s largest business-to-business outsourcers with 58,000 associates worldwide. We are committed to the health and well-being of our associates, as they are the hearts and minds who help us fulfill our mission. We can’t do what we do without them.
Each day, we play a vital role in helping our client organizations take care of their employees, 
too. Our clients entrust us to help them more effectively manage, deploy, compensate and serve the human resource needs of their people, while also handling and protecting their most sensitive data. With this trust comes great responsibility – a responsibility we take very seriously.
As a global corporate citizen, ADP also recognizes its responsibility to give back to and 
generate a lasting, positive impact upon the communities in which we work and live. This commitment to corporate social responsibility (CSR) is a core principle within ADP’s Mission, Vision and Values, and encompasses everything from corporate governance, ethics and environmental stewardship to diversity, philanthropy and promoting employee success around the world.
At ADP , we see business success and the needs of citizens and communities as inextricably 
linked – forces that must be in balance in order to drive and achieve forward progress. We also firmly believe that business can – and should – have a positive impact on the world. That’s why we constantly strive to embed socially responsible principles and practices into everything we do. Above all, we’re excited about the future and are committed to continue making positive contributions – today and tomorrow – that will benefit the world in which we live and future generations alike.
Sincerely,
Carlos Rodriguez 
President and CEOCorporate Social Responsibility Report 03 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our WorldOur purpose is simple: make the world a better 
place by unlocking the full potential of our 
people. We are a global company with local 
expertise and a deep appreciation for our 
most valuable investment – our people. ADP’s 
commitment to diversity and inclusion is central 
to how we leverage this investment. It begins at 
the top and is threaded throughout every part of 
our business. 
At the heart of work, people create the 
ecosystem of ideas that allows business to grow 
even as the global marketplace shifts. People, 
by definition, are diverse and unique yet need 
a culture that’s inclusive in order to thrive. 
Diversity and inclusion are distinctive though 
interconnected. Diversity is often measured by demographics, but the numbers tell only one part 
of this story. Each person offers unique value 
that – influenced by variations in age, gender, 
race, culture and other differences – builds 
a launching pad for revolutionary thoughts. 
This diverse thinking allows the “what-ifs” to 
transform into the breakthroughs that inspire 
and improve the world of work.For its part, inclusion enables diversity to thrive. It 
creates fertile ground that embraces differences 
and integrates them into effective business 
strategies. You can hire in diversity, but without 
an inclusive culture, it will not flourish. At ADP , 
we believe diversity and inclusion are not only 
good for business, they are also necessary for 
long-term business success. That means weaving 
diversity and inclusion into the fabric of who we 
are, what we do and how we do it. 
At ADP , technology has enabled great progress 
through tools that capture relevant data 
about hiring, attrition, advancement and other 
key indicators. These tools can strengthen 
our workforce and position us for future 
advancements. For example, Standout
®, 
by recently acquired The Marcus Buckingham 
Company, enables employers to build a more 
productive, engaged and collaborative workforce.Preface
By Rita Mitjans, Chief Diversity and Corporate  
Social Responsibility Officer Corporate Social Responsibility Report 04 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our WorldOur commitment extends well beyond our offices 
into the communities where we live, work and 
do business. We welcome the opportunity to 
invest across diverse areas and encourage our 
associates to do the same. While this report 
focuses on many programs in the U.S., we are 
expanding our ability to track and capture more 
initiatives globally and will include them in future 
reports. Additionally, ADP remains committed 
to environmental sustainability with campaigns 
that actively address renewable energy, waste 
management reduction and many other environmental impacts. We believe sustainability is about creating 
value for all of our stakeholders: our people, 
our clients, our partners, our investors and our 
community at large. We do this by attracting, 
engaging, retaining and growing high-performing talent that reflects the markets we serve. It is a 
concept that we embrace, and words that we live 
by – we are ADP: a more human resource.Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 05
Our 
companyIntroduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 06Governance and 
strategy
At ADP , we are dedicated to unlocking potential – not only for our 
clients and their businesses, but for our people, our communities 
and our world as a whole . As one of the world’s largest providers of 
human capital management (HCM) solutions, we have clients, 
associates, partners, investors and neighbors across the globe – 
and we have a commitment to each of them to be a conscientious 
corporate citizen . 
This commitment is based on three important tools: our Mission, 
Vision and Values .Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 07Mission, Vision and Values
Our mission:
Our vision:
Our values:Power organizations with insightful solutions that drive 
business success .
Be the world’s authority on helping organizations focus on 
what matters .
Integrity is everything:  We conduct our business with the highest level of 
integrity. We are straightforward and honor our commitments. We do the right thing.
Insightful expertise:  We thrive on turning knowledge into insight. Staying on top 
of our field and ahead of the curve is how we drive value for our clients.
Service excellence:  We are obsessed with all aspects of the client experience. 
The strength of our client relationships is the key to our growth and success.
Inspiring innovation:  We strive for constant improvement, always searching for 
new and better ways to serve our clients and grow the business. We created an entire 
industry. Innovation is in our DNA.
Each person counts:  We believe that each person counts. We respect and embrace 
the diversity of all our associates, clients and business partners.
Results driven:  We are driven by a strong work ethic that is results-oriented. 
We encourage prudent risk taking without the fear of occasional failure. By being accountable, we deliver measurable results.
Social responsibility:  We believe in giving back to the communities where we 
work and live. We encourage and support our associates’ commitment to giving back and helping improve their communities.Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 08Our strategy and business 
model are aligned with CSR
Our business strategy is based on the following three strategic 
objectives, which are designed to position ADP as the global market 
leader in technology-enabled human capital management 
(HCM) services:
These objectives have been built on the 
foundation of our Mission, Vision and Values. We 
are helping clients focus on what matters (Vision) 
by providing solutions that drive their business 
success (Mission). By turning our knowledge 
into insight, striving for constant improvement 
and being obsessed with all aspects of the client 
relationship, our Values are the engine that drives our business strategy. We believe it is critical to respect every single associate – as well as clients, 
partners and suppliers – and celebrate the 
diverse perspective that each one brings to our 
business. Aligning our business strategy with our 
corporate social responsibility is not only the right 
thing to do, it makes good business sense, too.Grow a complete suite of 
cloud-based HCM solutions .Invest to grow and scale our 
market-leading HRBPO (Human 
Resources Business Process 
Outsourcing) solutions by  
leveraging our platforms  
and processes .Leverage our global presence 
to offer clients HCM solutions 
wherever they do business .ADP Business StrategyIntroduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 09Corporate governance  
framework
ADP has a long and proud tradition of conducting 
business in accordance with the highest ethical 
standards and in full compliance with both 
the letter and spirit of all applicable laws. This 
tradition is reflected in our core value that 
Integrity is everything. ADP’s commitment to 
maintaining the highest ethical standards starts 
at the top and resides with every associate. 
Our Code of Business Conduct & Ethics applies to all ADP associates and our board of directors. 
In addition, our Anti-Bribery Policy prohibits 
all forms of bribery and corruption by our 
associates. We are also committed to sound 
corporate governance practices that provide 
our shareholders with meaningful rights and 
foster strong independent leadership in 
our boardroom.
Annual election of directorsStockholder right to act by 
written consent
Stockholder ability to call 
special meetings
Annual board assessment 
of corporate governance best practices
Significant board role in strategy 
and risk oversight
Annual succession 
planning review
Active shareholder engagement 
to better understand investor 
perspectivesMajority voting standard
One share, one vote
Proxy access by-law
No overboarding policy
No poison pill
Independent board chair and 
independent board committeesExecutive sessions of 
independent directors held regularlyCorporate Governance FrameworkIntroduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 10The ADP board of directors is elected annually 
by shareholders to oversee management 
and protect the long-term interests of our 
shareholders. There are currently 10 directors 
on our board, including Mr. Rodriguez, our 
president and CEO. All directors of our board are 
independent other than Mr. Rodriguez, who is 
the board’s sole management-director.
Our board has four committees:  an audit 
committee, compensation committee, 
nominating/corporate governance committee 
and corporate development and technology 
advisory committee. The responsibilities of 
the committees are set out in their respective 
charters. For more information on the board’s 
governance policies and practices, including standards for director independence, 
qualifications for board membership and the 
process for evaluations of the performance of 
the board, please refer to our Corporate 
Governance Principles. 
Our board takes a thoughtful approach to 
its composition to ensure alignment with 
the company’s evolving corporate strategy. 
We believe our board composition strikes a 
balanced approach to director tenure, which Independent (9 Directors)
Management (1 Director)
allows the board to benefit from a mix of newer 
directors, who bring fresh perspectives, and 
seasoned directors, who bring continuity and a 
deep understanding of our complex business. 
We refresh our board and assess our board 
succession plans regularly with this balance of 
tenure and experience in mind. 
In line with this approach, our nominating 
process ensures our board consists of a 
well-qualified and diverse group of leaders 
who bring an important mix of boardroom 
and operating experience. Our nominating/
corporate governance committee considers a 
wide range of other factors in determining the 
composition of our board of directors, including 
diversity of thought and background, as well as individual qualities such as professional 
experience, skills, education and training. While 
not a formal policy, our nomination process 
also considers a range of types of diversity, 
including race, gender, ethnicity, age, culture 
and geography.
All of our governance documents may be found 
at www.adp.com under Investor Relations in the 
Corporate Governance section.Director IndependenceIntroduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 11The board’s role in risk oversight
Our board of directors provides oversight 
with respect to the company’s enterprise risk 
assessment and risk management activities, 
which are designed to identify, prioritize, 
assess, monitor and mitigate the various risks 
confronting the company, including risks 
that are related to the achievement of the 
company’s operational and financial strategy. As 
discussed in this section, our board of directors 
performs this oversight function periodically 
as part of its meetings and also through three 
of its committees (audit, compensation and nominating/corporate governance), each of which examines various components of risk as part of 
its assigned responsibilities. 
In addition, our corporate development and 
technology advisory committee acts in an advisory capacity to the board with respect 
to certain risks assigned to oversight of the 
full board. Our committees report back on risk 
oversight matters directly to the board of directors 
on a regular basis. Management is responsible 
for implementing and supervising day-to-day risk 
management processes and reporting to the board 
and its committees as necessary.
Full Board Audit Committee Compensation Committee Nominating/Corporate 
Governance Committee
* Includes CSR and sustainability, as well as philanthropic activitiesStrategic Operations –
Front OfficeOperations – 
Back OfficeInformation
TechnologyFinancial &
ReportingLegal &
Compliance
Corporat e
Strategy &
InitiativesProduct
DevelopmentPeople/HRInformatio n
AssuranceTreasur y
ManagementLaws &
Regulations
External
CommunicationsService
Deliver yMoney
MovementInformatio n
Availability &
ContinuityReporting
Finance
Operations
Acquisitions &
Divestitu resService
OperationsTechnology
Strategy &
ManagementCapital Strategy
& ManagementDecision Suppor t
FP&ACorporat e
Governance*Third -Party
RelationshipsSales &
Marketin gPhysical AssetsIT Development
& Production
Suppor tTax Strategy &
ManagementEthics Pr ogram
External
Envir onmentIT OperationsRisk
ManagementLegalIntroduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 12Audit committee
Our audit committee focuses on financial risks, including reviewing with 
management, the company’s internal auditors and the company’s independent 
auditors, the company’s major financial risk exposures, the adequacy and 
effectiveness of accounting and financial controls and the steps management 
has taken to monitor and control financial risk exposures. In addition, our audit 
committee reviews risks related to compliance with applicable laws, regulations 
and ethical standards, and also operational risks related to information security and 
system disruption.
Compensation committee
Our compensation committee oversees risks related to compensation policies and practices, including management succession planning and our talent strategy, 
including the recruitment, development and retention of executive talent.
Nominating/corporate governance committee
Our nominating/corporate governance committee oversees risks associated with 
board structure and other corporate governance policies and practices, including 
matters of corporate citizenship and the review and approval of any related-person 
transactions under our Related Persons Transaction Policy .Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 13
Corporate social responsibility and  
sustainability governance
Our board of directors is squarely focused on 
the sustainability of our business for the long-
term. In line with this focus, the nominating/
corporate governance committee of ADP’s board 
of directors oversees the company’s policies 
and programs on issues of corporate citizenship, 
including our CSR and sustainability program, 
as well as ADP’s philanthropic activities. The 
committee receives periodic reports and updates 
from the company’s chief diversity and CSR 
officer (CSRO) and reports back on these matters 
to the full board. Our board members have complete and open access to senior members of 
management, including our CSRO. ADP’s CSR 
activities are coordinated by our CSRO, who 
reports to ADP’s chief human resources officer.  Our CSRO is tasked with providing leadership 
and direction on key corporate social 
responsibility issues including environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) and sustainability-
related factors. The CSRO works within a cross-
functional company structure in partnership 
with many teams and executives to create and 
drive CSR strategies, policies, initiatives and 
processes across the business. These teams and 
executives also spearhead the preparation of 
our CSR/sustainability report in terms of content 
development and aggregation of information, and they are supported by subject matter experts 
in the areas of ethics and compliance, enterprise 
risk management, environmental sustainability, 
health and safety, employability, associate and 
community engagement, innovation and research 
and development.  Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 14ADP’s executive committee is responsible for 
establishing and maintaining ADP’s business 
strategy and considers corporate responsibility 
and sustainability in the overall company 
strategy. Under the direction of the CSRO, cross-
functional subject matter experts (SMEs), who 
represent critical parts of the business related to 
sustainability (e.g., compliance, human resources, 
car fleet, real estate, sales and technology), meet regularly to identify issues that could impact 
ADP operations and associate engagement 
and ultimately ADP’s reputation and business 
potential. At regularly scheduled and ad hoc 
meetings, SMEs report on risks or opportunities 
identified by experts in their assigned areas. 
Information is then aggregated and analyzed and 
reported to the executive committee for action, 
if necessary. 
At ADP , sustainability is integrated beyond our formal governance structures and 
into the overall culture and ethos of the firm through many different teams:
Project management teams  are reporting on the amount of recycled 
construction waste as they transform ADP facilities and strive for Leadership in 
Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Certification wherever possible. 
Facility management leaders  are continuing to look for energy-saving 
measures through utility- and associate-inspired programs that conserve energy and decrease usage. 
Our 
engineering team  has been collecting the results on the fuel cell initiative 
in La Palma, California, auditing and replacing air conditioning units with highly 
efficient options and looking into solar energy projects. 
The office services team  is constantly seeking ways to improve the sustainability 
efforts launched by our food services vendors, including providing recyclable 
tableware and reusable coffee cups, as well as implementing a new coffee service 
that recycles disposable coffee pods.Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 15Identifying our ESG  
priorities by aligning with 
best practices
ADP has a multi-faceted approach to identifying 
the environmental, social and governance (ESG) 
priorities that have the most potential to impact 
the financial value of our business. First, we 
draw from our talented pool of associates who 
have an astounding breadth of knowledge as 
it pertains to human capital management and 
identifying the correlation between successful 
companies and engaged employees. Our 
associates also have deep expertise in the 
areas of risk management and sustainable 
operations, which gives us a well-rounded body of knowledge to draw from. In addition to our associates, we also benefit from interactions with other stakeholders such as our clients, 
investors, suppliers, communities, policymakers 
and both governmental and non-governmental 
organizations that have engaged with us over 
time on these topics.  
This context guides the initiatives that ADP 
ultimately pursues. As part of the annual 
planning process, these initiatives are reviewed 
and updated as necessary to reflect changing 
business conditions and industry best practices.Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 16Report development prioritization
As part of the development of our first sustainability report, we performed a benchmarking analysis 
in order to determine and prioritize our disclosures with regard to the environmental, social and 
governance activities and initiatives within our organization. This analysis was performed along 
multiple dimensions.
We prioritized alignment with our business strategy and assessed materiality based on our business 
priorities, including:
• Driving growth
• Meeting client and market needs
• Attracting, retaining and developing talent
• Operational efficiency
• Innovation that drives differentiation
• Risk management
We also conducted external benchmarking of peers with whom we both cooperate and compete for employees and business. 
We evaluated our initiatives and disclosures relative to business-relevant indicators identified by 
leading sustainability standards and reporting organizations, including GRI, SASB, the Dow Jones 
Sustainability Index (DJSI) and third-party ESG research providers.Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 17Data collection and analysis
To assess the relevance of our objectives, data 
elements from various publicly available data 
sources were evaluated for relevance and 
inclusion. We applied both a qualitative and 
quantitative lens to the data in order to classify 
the data points as having either high, medium 
or low relevance for our business and for our 
sustainability disclosures at this time. The results 
of this benchmarking exercise were shared with 
the relevant internal subject matter experts, who reviewed the results and helped make the final determination as to what content priorities are 
currently most relevant for the success of our 
business. The report contains disclosures on 
those indicators deemed to be priorities for our 
business and stakeholders. Our reporting will 
continue to evolve in line with best practices and 
input from our stakeholders. In some areas, we 
rely on U.S. statistics where global numbers are 
not available.Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 18Ethics and 
compliance
All of our stakeholders – clients, associates, partners and 
investors – trust us to act ethically and responsibly and to meet 
the highest standards when it comes to conducting business . ADP 
has a culture based on honoring our commitments and always 
doing the right thing. In fact, it is the first of our company’s core 
values: Integrity Is Everything.  
ADP has a long and proud tradition of conducting business in 
accordance with the highest ethical standards and in full 
compliance with both the letter and spirit of all applicable laws . 
Our Code of Business Conduct & Ethics and the Anti-Bribery 
Policy were developed at the direction of the ADP board of 
directors to provide clear guidance to all of our associates and to 
ensure a consistent approach to business practices throughout our 
expanding worldwide operations .  The Code of Business Conduct 
& Ethics and the Anti-Bribery Policy are reviewed by the board of 
directors on an annual basis .
The current versions of both policies can be found on our website, 
www  .adp .com, under the Corporate Governance tab of the 
Investor Relations page .Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 19Integrated assurance and  
risk management
All assurance functions, which include global compliance and global ethics, take 
an integrated, comprehensive approach to risk management. It is based on a 
coordinated model of coverage between business line management, which has 
responsibility for the day-to-day control environment and the assurance functions 
(see Figure 1). Our board of directors, acting directly and through its committees, 
is responsible for the oversight of ADP’s risk management activities. With board 
oversight, ADP has implemented programs and practices that are designed to 
encourage ethical behavior and manage and govern risk in order to protect the 
company’s brand and reputation and grow shareholder value.Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 20Figure 1 – Assurance Coverage
Risk 
Categories1st Line of Defense
Design & Operations
of Controls2nd Line of Defense
Management Assurance3rd Line of Defense
Independent Assurance
Strategi c
Financial
IT
Legal/
ComplianceOperational Fr ont/
Back Of ficeBusiness Lin e
ManagementEnterprise Risk Management (ERM )
Global Compliance & Global Ethics/Lega l
Global Security Org anization (GSO)
SOX
Service Org anizational Contro l Reportin g
 Data Governanc e
Vendor Risk ManagementInternal Audi t
ADP’s enterprise risk management (ERM) 
program spans across the organization to 
identify, assess, monitor and mitigate strategic, 
financial, operational, IT and legal/compliance 
risks that could impede strategic objectives or 
have a material impact on the company. The 
overall goal of the ERM program is to enable 
ADP to manage critical risks.
The enterprise risk management team, with 
oversight provided by the chief audit executive, 
administers the ERM process, which begins 
with a risk assessment across all categories of 
risk. Once enterprise-impacting critical risks are identified and assessed, risk facilitators 
coordinate the development of mitigation 
strategies; action plans are designed and 
implemented to aid in reducing overall exposure; 
and follow-up is tracked on a quarterly basis (see 
Figure 2). Additional assessments, which are 
more business-process or subject-matter focused, 
may be conducted by other assurance functions 
throughout the course of the year. All assurance 
functions share information and are aligned in 
identifying, assessing, prioritizing and reporting 
critical risks.Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 21Figure 2 – Enterprise-wide Risk Management Process
The results of the overall assessment drive internal audit’s risk-based audit planning process and 
are communicated to the executive committee and the audit committee of the board of directors 
annually. Internal audit also conducts monitoring and testing on behalf of global compliance, 
conducts Sarbanes-Oxley testing and oversees the Service Organizational Control (SOC) program.Severe
High
Moderate
Low
Unlikely Moderat e Likely Almost Certai nPotential Impac t
Likelihood of OccurrenceThe pr ocess by which management identifies
the risks that can aff ect goal achievementTo assess the magnitude of each
risk and calibrate accord ingly
The plan of action to r espond to each critical risk The periodic system for monitoring
the mitigation activitiesMilestone 1
Milestone 2
Milestone 3Operations:
Front Offic eOperations:
Front Office
Operations:
Back Office
Information
Technology
Financial
Mgmt .Legal &
ComplianceStrategic
MonitoringIdentification Assessment
MitigationIntroduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 22Global compliance
The global compliance function within the legal 
department seeks to elevate and promote our 
company’s strong culture of integrity and our 
ethical way of doing business. Its activities are 
designed to both minimize the likelihood of non-
compliance and contribute to ADP’s profitability 
and growth by making compliance a centerpiece 
of our products and services.
Global compliance focuses on the risks in the 
legal and compliance category identified in 
Figure 1 above. This includes, but is not limited 
to, risks such as data privacy, trade sanctions, 
anti-money laundering and anti-bribery. 
In addition to conducting an assessment to 
prioritize compliance risks and determine what 
type of activities need to occur to manage those 
risks at the enterprise and business unit levels, 
global compliance supports the execution of 
selected activities, such as those related to anti-
money laundering and trade sanctions. Global compliance also develops and implements compliance policies and procedures, training 
and communications, and it monitors business 
and functional compliance. All ADP associates 
are trained annually on the Code of Business 
Conduct & Ethics. 
Other training, such as those focused on anti-
bribery, information security and data privacy, 
among others, occurs at periodic intervals 
and may be required for certain associate 
audiences based on their function, level or 
roles and responsibilities. While most training 
is delivered online, some courses, such as anti-
bribery, are delivered in person to selected 
associate audiences. Training is supplemented 
by awareness programs such as articles on ADP’s intranet, blogs, videos and other communications 
disseminated by global compliance, other 
corporate functions and business management. Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 23Figure 3 – Global Compliance Program  
Oversight and Structure
General Counsel
(Chief Compliance Officer)
Overall r esponsibility for th e
compliance pr ogramCorporate Complianc e
Committee
Executive committee support,
oversight and guidance to the pr ogram
Global Complianc e
Compliance CommitteesDay-to-day operational r esponsibility
for the compliance pr ogram
Day-to-day management,
implementation and r eporting at
business unit/function levelAudit Committee
Oversight of the compliance pr ogramThe head of global compliance reports to ADP’s general counsel. Board-level oversight for the 
compliance program is provided by the company’s audit committee, which receives regular updates 
from both the general counsel, who serves as the chief compliance officer, and the head of global 
compliance. These reports focus on programmatic activities and actions being taken to mitigate potential 
compliance risk exposure. This structure, as well as the business unit and functional committees that 
support the compliance program, are depicted in Figure 3 below.Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 24
Fortune named ADP one of The 
World’s Most Admired CompaniesIntroduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 25In the normal course of business, ADP’s clients, 
associates, suppliers and business partners 
provide us with vast amounts of personal 
information. ADP classifies all client data as 
confidential and treats it accordingly. Protecting 
the privacy and security of this personal 
information is central to ADP’s mission.
ADP has a Global Privacy Policy that applies to 
all affiliates and associates worldwide. The Global 
Privacy Policy governs personal information 
collected by ADP as well as information provided 
to us as a data processor for our clients. This 
policy mandates protection of all personal 
information, regardless of collection method.Data privacy
Data Privacy Training
ADP requires all of its associates to complete a privacy training course at the beginning 
of their employment . Additional training 
and communication on privacy are frequently 
provided during an associate’s tenure . Topics 
addressed include: acceptable use of information, 
data classification and roles and responsibilities as 
it relates to privacy and data .ADP has a dedicated team of privacy professionals led by a chief privacy officer, who 
reports to the head of global compliance. The 
chief privacy officer is responsible for the design 
and implementation of ADP’s enterprise-wide 
compliance program in relation to the 
protection of personal information and in 
conformance with relevant privacy laws, 
regulations and standards, such as the EU’s 
General Data Protection Regulation.
For more information on ADP’s privacy policies, 
please visit www.adp.com/privacy.aspx.Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 26ADP’s Code of Business Conduct & Ethics 
explains that, “At times, ADP works with 
lawmakers and government agencies regarding 
policy and legislation that may affect the 
manner in which we conduct some aspects 
of our business, including the areas of payroll 
services, human resources services, health care 
administration services and professional employer 
organization services.”   
As the largest single source of U.S. tax payments 
and employment tax reports, ADP has developed 
substantial expertise in tax administration 
and many other areas of employment-related 
administrative matters. We contribute to sound 
government policy by educating policymakers Public policy and  
government relations
Campaign Contributions
ADP has a strict policy of “no financial support” 
for any political candidate, party or government 
office worldwide. ADP does not contribute funds 
to political campaigns of any sort and does not 
sponsor or maintain a Political Action 
Committee (PAC) .and government agencies as to feasible policy and systemic alternatives in areas where we have substantial subject matter expertise.
For example, to help mitigate the rise of income 
tax “refund theft,” ADP worked closely with the 
IRS to pioneer and pilot a new IRS Form W-2 “verification code,” which enables the IRS to 
independently validate W-2 data reported on 
individual income tax returns, and we advised 
congressional tax-writing staff as to the feasibility 
of earlier submissions of employer W-2 reports. 
Similarly, ADP actively supports electronic filing 
programs to improve accuracy and efficiency of 
government tax collections.Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 27Our first core value, Integrity Is Everything, 
includes a commitment to conducting business 
with the highest moral principles when making 
business decisions. At ADP , this includes 
maintaining a global ethics team within the legal 
department to provide ADP associates with 
advice and counsel on all aspects of the Code 
of Business Conduct & Ethics and Anti-Bribery 
Policy. The global ethics team also supports the 
development of training and awareness focused 
on the Code and related policies, and it conducts 
investigations of ethics matters. 
Global ethics is led by the head of global ethics, 
who reports to ADP’s general counsel. The head 
Ethics Helpline
ADP associates have access to a number of channels in order to report ethics concerns or to ask questions, including the Ethics 
Helpline that is available via telephone, a secure website, sending an 
email to the Ethics Helpline mailbox or sending a letter by regular 
mail . For more information, visit the following link on adp .com . The 
web and telephone channels of the ADP Ethics Helpline are 
operated by a third-party provider, with 24/7/365 functionality, 
international toll-free dial-in numbers and the capability to report in 
most languages spoken where ADP has direct operations through 
its subsidiaries .Ethics
of global ethics provides information regarding investigations and matters reported to 
ADP’s Ethics Helpline to the general counsel 
for reporting to the board of directors and 
audit committee.  
Global ethics, along with global compliance, 
support the execution of ADP’s Anti-Bribery 
Policy , which prohibits any improper or unethical 
payments anywhere in the world by any ADP officer, associate or third party acting on behalf 
of ADP . The Anti-Bribery Policy is administered 
by ADP’s anti-bribery committee, which consists 
of designees of the chief financial officer and the 
general counsel.Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 28At ADP , security is integral to our products, business processes and infrastructure. 
The mission of our global security organization (GSO) is to protect client data 
and funds and prevent security incidents. The expertise of our global team of 
experienced security practitioners, paired with our industry-leading platform 
defense, intelligent detection, automated data protection, and identity and access 
management, makes ADP’s security program among the strongest in the industry. 
Critical Incident Response Centers
ADP maintains four state-of-the-art Critical Incident Response Centers (CIRC) that are located in North America, Asia and Europe . 
By proactively monitoring for threats 24 hours per day, 7 days per 
week, 365 days per year, ADP is able to detect and respond to 
threats and events rapidly  . The CIRC leverages a world-class 
ecosystem of operational capabilities, technologies and controls to investigate events every day around the globe . The highly skilled 
and experienced CIRC associates actively focus on cyber and fraud 
prevention, intrusion detection, malware and spam analysis, 
intelligence development and incident handling . Data securityIntroduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 29
Our 
associates
At ADP , we never forget that success is driven by an organization’s most 
valuable asset: its people . And every service or solution we offer begins with 
our people . 
We are committed to attracting and retaining the world’s greatest talent; 
building diverse, inclusive teams; and being the kind of workplace where work aligns with passion . We believe that highly engaged, diverse associates are 
the foundation for building a better company – and a better world .Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 30Diversity and 
inclusion
As a global leader in human capital management, we know that 
attracting and retaining top talent are critical to ADP’s growth in the 
short- and long-term . At ADP , we strive to ensure our workplace is 
inclusive and values the contribution of every individual . In an 
increasingly competitive marketplace, our commitment to diversity is 
not only the right thing to do, but it allows us to deliver greater 
service to our clients and, more importantly, it enables us to be a 
more effective, empathetic and responsible global corporate citizen .
DiversityInc® Top 50
In 2017, ADP ranked #17 on DiversityInc magazine’s Top 50 Companies for Diversity
® . 
We are proud to have been named on this list 
every year since 2010 . Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 31Greater innovation 
More diverse experiences, perspectives, ideas 
and backgrounds help fuel new ideas that enable 
our clients to run their businesses better.
Better financial performance 
The business case for diversity and inclusion is 
clear. It is a win-win that is tied to our purpose as 
a company, which also helps our clients unlock 
the potential in their people, and everyone 
benefits financially. 
Better team engagement 
and productivity 
When we capitalize on the strengths of all our 
associates, leverage their differences and unique 
points of view, our associates are more engaged 
and productive.Reflects market demographics for 
clients and workforce 
At ADP , we seek to reflect the marketplace 
and the communities we serve all over the world 
by attracting and retaining a diverse 
associate population.
Ability to attract top talent 
Our commitment to a diverse associate population appeals to the talent we want to 
attract and retain in order to remain competitive 
in today’s market.Diversity and inclusion  
deliver impactIntroduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 32Our philosophy is simple – we must reflect the 
markets we serve, and to do that, we need to 
nurture a culture that embraces all forms of 
diversity, including gender, race, ethnicity, age, 
sexual orientation, veteran status and abilities, 
among others.
In 2017, ADP signed on to the CEO Action for 
Diversity & Inclusion, a CEO-led initiative of 
more than 300 organizations across industries 
committed to creating more inclusive workplaces. 
As part of the initiative, ADP and other 
companies committed to:
• Encourage difficult conversations  
• Implement/expand unconscious 
bias training 
• Share best practicesDiversity is integrated in all aspects of ADP’s 
talent process. From talent acquisition to 
talent management to succession planning, we 
consider diversity in our operating practices. This 
approach has resulted in marked improvements 
in the representation of women and minorities 
in management, as well as a meaningful 
improvement in engagement. 
ADP is proud to represent the markets we 
serve. As a leader in human capital management 
services, our workforce represents the rich talent 
available in the marketplace.
2018 Human Rights Campaign
For the ninth consecutive year, ADP received a 100 percent rating in the Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index (CEI) . The 
HRC’s CEI annually rates large U .S . employers based on their policies 
and practices pertaining to lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and 
queer employees . In addition, ADP also signed the Corporate 
Equality Pledge, an initiative by the Human Rights Campaign to help 
pass the Equality Act which would provide the same rights and basic 
protections to LGBTQ people as other protected groups under 
the law  . Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 33
• Our nominating/corporate governance committee oversees corporate 
 citizenship and receives regular reports from our CSRO
• Human capital metrics of associate diversity and engagement are components  
 of the strategic objectives in our executive compensation planDiversity and inclusion among our 
associates is a priorityIntroduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 3454% 54% 54% 54%52%
FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY1731%33% 34%37%
30%
FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17June 2013 – June 2017 Female 
Workforce Demographics (Global)
June 2017 Female Demographic 
(Global)June 2013 – June 2017 Minority 
Workforce Demographics* (U .S . only)
June 2017 Minority Demographic* 
(U .S . only)
Workforce Management Executive54%
40%
31%
Workforce Management Executive20%23%37%
* Minority includes the following EEOC categories (U.S. Only):  Black/African American, Hispanic, Asian, American Indian, Native Hawaiian,  
 Two or More RacesGlobal Workforce DemographicsIntroduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 35Women and minorities in  
executive roles
As part of our commitment to workforce diversity and inclusion, in fiscal year 2016 the company 
established three-year goals for improving the representation of women and minorities in executive 
roles. The goal is to achieve 33 percent female representation, which is in line with leading 
industry benchmarks. Minorities are expected to represent 20 percent of executive roles by the 
end of fiscal year 2019, a five-point improvement respectively over the three-year period. In order 
to support these goals, we have implemented the following improvements to our talent processes 
and several initiatives to specifically support the advancement of diversity in leadership:
• Business-level dashboards that track hiring, promotions, retention and 
engagement of workforce across diversity dimensions
• Diverse slates for executive-level openings
• Dedicated diversity recruiting efforts
• Monthly review of diversity metrics at executive committee level
• Targeted leadership opportunities to help develop high-potential women and minorities
• Expansion of unconscious bias training for leaders
• Development and recruitment programs through Business Resource Groups 
• Executive sponsorship of high-profile diverse organizationsIntroduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 36
Black Enterprise’s 50 Best Companies for Diversity (2016, 2017)  
Working Mother 100 Best Companies (2016)
Best Companies for Multicultural Women Award (2016, 2017)Best Companies for Women in India (2016, 2017)Working Mother
® magazine & AVTAR (India)
AnitaB.org Top Companies for Women Technologists (2016, 2017)Best Places to Work for LGBT Equality (2018, 9th consecutive year)
 
DiversityInc magazine’s Top 50 Companies for Diversity® (since 2010)Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 37A culture of inclusion
Celebrating cultural diversity
Connecting diversity and inclusion  
to the businessThroughout the year in the United States, we celebrate the heritage and history of our associates by 
offering special programming for nationally designated months. 
In celebration of Women’s History Month, we offered programming including networking jam 
sessions, a blog series and a panel event on “Engaging Men to Empower Women.” Two contests 
were launched, “Women of Distinction” and “Allies of Distinction,” where ADP associates recognized peers and leaders who partner on the journey for gender equality. Additionally, ADP hosts 
programming for Black History Month, Hispanic Heritage Month, Asian/Pacific American Heritage 
Month, National Disability Employment Awareness Month and LGBTQ Pride Month, among others.
ADP periodically shares its expertise in diversity management with clients and the marketplace by 
speaking at industry conferences and hosting workshops on culture, employee engagement and 
establishing a sustainable diversity strategy. Examples include participation in ADP’s Meeting of 
the Minds, Working Mother Media, DiversityInc and WorkHuman conferences. These activities also 
support ADP’s leading brand as a human capital management services provider by sharing our 
expertise with clients who are earlier in the diversity journey.At ADP , we live our brand as “a more human resource” every day  . We are 
committed to fostering a culture of inclusion . We continue to offer programs and 
benefits that meet the needs of an increasingly diverse workforce . Understanding trends in workforce demographics is a first step in meeting the needs of 
our associates .Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 38The ADP Foundation  
supports diversity
Transgender and same-sex  
marriage benefitsThrough the ADP Foundation, the company supports nonprofit organizations 
focused on enabling diversity.
We provide same-sex marriage and transgender benefits to our associates, as part 
of our commitment to equality.
Business Resource Groups
Business Resource Groups (BRGs) are voluntary groups of like-minded associates 
that help shape our culture and support key business initiatives. At ADP , we have 
several BRGs that help connect our associates to each other and serve as a platform 
for bridging diverse perspectives and cultivating an inclusive culture within the 
company. This area of our company has grown tremendously over the last few years, 
and we continue to launch new groups where we see there is interest or a need.Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 39
African American Business Resource Group
Virtual  
Connections
Engage. Connect. Anywhere. 
• Adelante (Hispanic)
• A.S.I.A. (Asian)
• Cultivate (Black/African-American)
• PRIDE (LGBTQ)
• Military Strong (Military)
• Inspire (Innovation)
• Generations (Multigenerational)
From 2013 to 2017, membership in the BRGs has more than quadrupled, from about 2,000 total 
members to more than 9,000 members as of June 2017. Engagement of BRG members is also higher 
than non-members, which is a benefit to our company, as well as to our associates.• Virtual Connections (Flexible Work)
• iWIN (International Women’s 
Inclusion Network)
• Women in Leadership (Executive Women)
• WiSL (Women in Sales Leadership) To support a connected, inclusive culture, we currently sponsor 
eleven different BRGs: 
Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 40
Local engagement and  
diversity committees
In addition to our Business Resource Groups (BRGs), ADP’s numerous local engagement and diversity 
committees engage leaders and associates throughout the U.S. to help execute its diversity and 
inclusion priorities. The BRG and committee chairs are appointed by senior leadership in conjunction 
with the Office of Diversity. These roles are leveraged as leadership development and 
stretch assignments.Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 41
BRGs align with  
business priorities
Cultivate your career
PRIDE and voluntary  
self-identification  Our Cultivate BRG focused one of its initiatives on advancing 
women of color. In 2015, Cultivate began sponsoring quarterly 
summits for high potential mid-career women. With support 
from Cultivate’s executive sponsor (ADP’s highest ranking black 
female executive) and the Office of Diversity, 38 women initially 
participated in targeted personal and professional development 
seminars, 42 percent of whom have been promoted into new roles.  
One of PRIDE’s primary goals is to create an inclusive, engaged 
environment where LGBTQ associates are respected, valued and able to do their best work. PRIDE initiated market 
research and developed the business case for introducing 
voluntary self-identification as part of ADP’s human resources 
personal information capture process to measure engagement, 
representation and need for benefits. Initial roll-out was launched 
in the U.S., with plans to expand availability globally subject to 
privacy regulations.Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 42iWIN and virtual career day
Military Strong
Inspire “battle of the minds”Providing members with access to career opportunities is one of the primary goals of ADP’s 
International Women’s Inclusion Network. iWIN’s steering committee designed a one-day virtual 
career day featuring leaders from all the major business units discussing their business strategies and 
career journeys. More than 1,200 associates participated in the nine live virtual sessions, and more 
than 500 listened to the on-demand recorded session. 
Engaging its members in helping veterans gain employment is one of Military Strong’s primary goals. 
Military Strong has established strategic partnerships with organizations like Hiring Our Heroes, the 
United Service Organization (USO) and the Military Spouse Employment Partnership (MSEP) to build 
our talent pipeline. Since 2015, the number of veterans hired annually has increased more than 800 
percent, and the growth in Military Strong membership has increased by 400 percent. By 2020, our goal is to have veterans represent 7 percent of our U.S. workforce.
True to its name, the members of Inspire ran a virtual contest among all associates to find the best ideas for simplifying, innovating and growing our business. Hundreds of new ideas surfaced. 
Leveraging technology, associates voted for their favorite idea using business success criteria, and 
the top five winners presented to a panel of executive “judges” who then selected among the most 
promising ideas for sponsorship. Among the ideas submitted is a new talent application to help with 
career development – something we can leverage with our associates and with clients.Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 43Index is the average level of agr eement for:
Overall, I am extre mely satisfied with ADP as a place to work .
I am pr oud to say that I work for ADP  .
I rare ly think about looking for a new job with another company .
I would r ecommend ADP as a gr eat place to work .Satisfaction
Associate Engagement IndexRetention
AdvocacyPrideAssociate 
engagement
We define associate engagement as the extent to which any 
company’s employees are motivated to contribute to the 
organization’s success and are willing to apply discretionary effort 
to accomplishing tasks that are important to the achievement of 
organizational goals . Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 44Why associate engagement 
is important to ADP
Simply put, stronger associate engagement 
means better productivity, better retention and 
better client service. When our associates are 
engaged at work, they feel a connection with the 
company. And when they have a connection to 
our company, they believe that the work they’re 
doing is worthwhile, and they will work harder to 
accomplish their goals.
Each year, ADP launches an extensive internal 
campaign to encourage employees to share their 
opinions. Within the survey, the Mission Vision 
Value Index questions correlate to each of the seven core values of ADP . Ninety percent of ADP’s associates participate in our engagement 
survey, which is well above the 80 percent 
industry benchmark.
Our goal is to be in the top quartile in terms of overall engagement. Overall Associate 
Engagement scores for 2017 improved by 
a remarkable 3 percent over the prior year, 
which was driven by associates’ feelings that 
they are treated fairly, they are valued for their 
contributions and they believe in the commitment 
of our company’s leadership.
Top Engagement Drivers
Valued Contribution
2015 2016 2017Committed
LeadershipTreated Fairly71%73%75%74%76%77%85%86%87%
Overall
Associate Engagement71% 71%74%Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 45A flexible work environment 
helps meet workforce  
expectations
In addition to our commitment toward cultivating an inclusive culture, engagement is positively 
affected by offering flexible programs that meet the personal and professional needs of our associates. 
Today, we operate in a 24/7 cycle, especially as technology and our global footprint grows. We need 
to be able to adapt to client demands and the way work gets done. One tool to respond to these 
trends is by being open to flexible work arrangements. Flexibility at ADP is our opportunity to consider how, where and when work gets done in a way that contributes to the success of our business and our 
clients. We find that workforce flexibility is valued by the talent in the market and helps us bring out the 
best in our associates.
Onsite day care centers
Innovations in technology facilitate 
flexible work arrangementsWe provide support for our associates with families through onsite day care centers in many locations, 
and we offer discounts to many offsite centers.
ADP has developed some innovative solutions for our clients, and our associates benefit from these 
technological advances too. With ADP Mobile Solutions, we are able to stay fully connected with 
associates around the globe, and we can also manage our work via mobile solutions, which enables 
increased productivity and flexible working arrangements.Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 46
Fostering employee 
success
At ADP , we want all of our associates to have every opportunity to grow 
and contribute to our company’s success.Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 47Talent pipeline development
Every company has an ongoing need to have a pool of talent readily available 
to fill positions as the company grows . At ADP , our talent pipeline development process includes campus activities and internships to enable us to discover and place talent quickly in a variety of opportunities at our company  .
Co-op and internship programs
ADP offers students co-op opportunities as well as internships. These positions afford students 
the opportunity to gain real-world experience in their field of study and exposure to a corporate 
environment. The goals of the internship or co-op are for the student to learn about our culture and 
the type of work they would be doing at our company, and for ADP to preview the individual’s work 
ethic, skills and employability.  
Internships are project-based, whereas co-ops are based on providing extensive training in a specific 
role, such as a client service support specialist. Both opportunities give our company the advantage 
of being able to convert them to a full-time hire immediately upon graduation. Internship and co-op 
positions are available in the following areas:  client service and implementation, HR, internal audit, 
ERM, finance, information technology, marketing and global security.Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 48ADP HCM Academy at UTEP
ADP has partnered with The University of Texas at El Paso to create the ADP HCM Academy. Through 
ADP’s collaboration with UTEP , an HCM certificate program was created. The goal of the academy 
is to teach students about the different areas of human resources in a corporate environment and 
for them to be able to apply what they have learned in a textbook to real-world situations. ADP has 
provided students with access to one of our HCM systems, allowing them to work in the system 
through a testing environment. While we realize not all students will join ADP as future associates, we 
take pride and satisfaction in knowing that we are providing these students, many of whom are first 
generation college students, an opportunity for success when they choose to join an HR function at 
any company.Given that an intern has spent anywhere from 200 to 400 hours with our company by the end of their 
engagement, there is significant value – both internally and externally – to ADP . 
• The onboarding time is reduced significantly.
• The turnover rate of these new hires is diminished because both parties know what 
is expected .  
• The first 30, 60 and 90 days of an average employment scenario usually entail learning the corporate culture and the organizational structure, as well as understanding one’s role and responsibilities . Having learned these foundational pieces during their internship, 
productivity can begin within the first 30 days of being hired.  
• Externally, the interns we hire become ambassadors, promoting and strengthening the 
ADP brand to their classmates and future colleagues .Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 49US FY17 Overall Campus Results
Female Minority MaleIntern Full-Ti me Employee Conversion
FY17 FY16
29% 19%
Diversity of Intern s
49%51%65%Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 50Associate development,  
career progression and  
talent retention
Based on our annual engagement survey, we 
recognize that career growth and development 
have been top engagement drivers for our 
associates for the last several years. With the 
right focus and programs, we can attract new 
associates into the organization, help them be 
successful early in their tenure and support their 
growth with ADP . 
Being a large, global organization with multiple 
business units, functions and areas of focus, 
we have the ability to offer our associates a 
wide array of career paths. This is a win for the 
associate and for ADP by enabling both the 
company and the associate to benefit from the 
growth in knowledge and experience. As a result, 
the client experience is also richer because of our associates’ deep knowledge and variety of 
experiences within the company.
 
 Programs include, but are not limited to:
• Onboarding programs designed to accelerate productivity and familiarity 
with our culture for new hires
• Ongoing programs focused on skill 
building, development and cross-business 
unit exposure 
• Knowledge Pay program offering financial 
incentives for specific certifications
• Diversity & Inclusion/anti-harassment training; human rights awarenessIntroduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 51Health, wellness 
and safety
ADP has long supported and promoted a culture of health and 
wellness throughout the company, and we are committed to 
implementing programs designed to keep our associates healthy 
while protecting our business from issues such as high absenteeism .  
ADP offers wellness and fitness programs that can help associates maintain and improve their overall well-being . And we offer 
other benefits, such as comprehensive safety programs designed 
to address ergonomics, indoor air quality, accident investigations 
and driver safety  . In addition, we are dedicated to maintaining a 
tobacco-free work environment for our associates and visitors at all ADP locations in the U .S .Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 52Health and wellness centers
ADP began offering onsite health centers in 1992. We have since expanded the number of health 
centers over the years and will soon have 12 sites in the U.S. Onsite medical services are also available 
at ADP’s larger locations in some countries outside the U.S. Associates value this benefit, with more 
than 70 percent of associates at sites with a health and wellness center using our services, and 
patient satisfaction levels at more than 95 percent. 
The Health and Wellness Centers are staffed with ADP-employed physicians, nurse practitioners, 
physician assistants and/or medical assistants. A large spectrum of mostly free services is provided to 
associates, such as: 
• Coordination and response to onsite medical emergencies
• Direct medical services including care for sick associates, lab services, annual physical exams, travel consultations, ergonomic assessments of work stations, 
skin cancer screenings and immunizations, including an annual flu shot program
• Coordination of mobile vision and mammography services at some locations 
provided by outside vendors
• Promotion of a culture of health at ADP through available resources such as healthy dining, fitness centers, walking trails, onsite massage and a nursing 
mothers program
• Outreach and expertise to all ADP locations – domestically and internationally – 
on public health issues in the workplace, such as response to natural disasters, 
potential exposure to contagious diseases, disease outbreak prevention and 
seasonal flu prevention
• Part of a cross-functional team with ADP’s corporate risk management and human resources, which focuses on finding the best solutions for associates with 
medical conditions that may require a work accommodation, allowing the 
associate to continue to work and be integrated into the ADP work environment
Additionally, onsite medical services are available in some countries outside the U.S. at ADP’s larger locations, including India, the Philippines and Brazil. These locations typically include a physician and 
a nurse onsite. In the UK, an occupational health nurse is available on a regular, part-time basis to 
address associate health needs.Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 53A comprehensive  
benefits program 
Just as we give our clients the tools they need to help their employees thrive, ADP has built a 
competitive benefits program as part of our associates’ total rewards package. Whether our 
associates are supporting a family or are single without dependents, ADP works hard to offer 
affordable, high-quality health care options to our full- and part-time associates. 
Outside the U.S., the comprehensive benefits offered vary by country but typically include health 
insurance, disability insurance, retirement programs and access to an onsite gym or discounted 
membership to an outside gym. We also provide an employee assistance program and wellness 
program in some countries.In the U.S., our comprehensive benefits package includes:
• Medical, prescription, dental, vision and long-term disability insurance, as well as flexible 
spending accounts and a health savings account
• Voluntary wellness program so that associates, and their eligible spouses, can better understand their health status and have tools and resources to help them reach health 
improvement goals
• 401(k) plan with company matching contributions
• Basic life, AD&D and short-term disability insurance coverages and an employee assistance 
program to U.S. associates at no cost
• Robust employee discount program on a variety of products and services, including automobile leasing/purchasing, electronics, school and office supplies and moreIntroduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 54Parental leave policies
Our goal is to provide a family-friendly and supportive work environment. As a complement to the 
unpaid leave U.S. associates are entitled to under the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA), ADP 
provides six weeks of paid family leave to new mothers under the short-term disability program. In 
addition, we enable parents in the U.S. to take two weeks of paid time off after a birth or adoption 
to bond with their new child, and we follow up to see that both fathers and mothers are utilizing this 
benefit. We also have nursing mothers’ rooms (and in some cases allow flexibility for new parents to 
work from home).
Safety
ADP’s corporate risk management department monitors the efficacy of its safety and health programs 
and recommends opportunities to make improvements and reduce the potential for accidents 
through a variety of initiatives:
• Developing a global occupational health and safety manual for all associates
• A comprehensive risk management website for associates to use that includes safety 
education and training material on a vast number of topics
• Forming safety committees at ADP’s larger facilities to enhance associate engagement
• An accident investigation process that engages facility, security, medical and risk management staff
• Ergonomic assessments and training conducted by third-party ergonomists for associates in the office and those who work from home
• Enhanced effort to identify and correct slip and fall hazards at ADP facilities
• Expanded indoor air quality program to include extensive training of facility managers on how to investigate and respond to any air quality or environmental health concern 
expressed by associatesIntroduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 55Internal efforts combined with ADP’s long-term partnerships with various facility 
maintenance vendors and third-party loss prevention consultants help reduce the 
potential for loss and accidents across the organization.  
ADP corporate risk management tracks injury data in a risk management database 
system which is analyzed on an ongoing basis to identify opportunities, target loss control efforts and improve safety and health programs at ADP . ADP is recognized 
by its insurers for its commitment to safety and loss prevention.
ADP is committed to providing a safe and healthful workplace.  Injuries in the ADP 
workplace occur infrequently as the ADP business segment is predominantly a white collar work environment, and ADP has established effective safety and 
ergonomic programs.
ADP is recognized by its 
insurers for its commitment to 
safety and loss prevention.Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 56
Good corporate citizenship doesn’t stop at taking care of our associates and 
our communities . In serving our clients, we connect with 40 million workers, 
providing a unique view into the human side of work . When our innovations 
in technology improve the employability and the quality of the workforce, as 
well as the workplace in general, ADP creates a positive societal impact that 
goes beyond profits. Our 
clientsCorporate Social Responsibility Report 57
 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World
Research and 
innovation at ADP
ADP was an early pioneer of business outsourcing cloud 
technology and is a recognized human capital management 
innovator  . Our global reach extends beyond 110 countries and 
territories, and our broad product depth addresses the human capital management needs of any business, from small “mom and 
pops” to multi-national corporations with 100,000+ employees. 
ADP’s solutions touch the lives of tens of millions of employees, 
from hire to retire . From recruitment to onboarding, talent, 
benefits and retirement, ADP global product and technology 
associates enjoy seeing their innovations adopted widely, making a 
difference for workers around the globe .Corporate Social Responsibility Report 58
 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World
Run Powered  
by ADPADP  
TotalSourceADP  
Workforce NowADP Vantage 
HCMADP 
GlobalViewInnovation Labs
ADP’s first Innovation Lab was established in 
2010 at our headquarters in New Jersey. Since 
that time, we opened the Chelsea Innovation 
Lab in Manhattan in 2013 and the Pasadena 
Innovation Lab, just outside Los Angeles, in 2015. 
ADP has significantly increased its investment 
in research and development to enhance our 
technology platforms and meet the dynamic 
needs of our clients. For example, across our 
portfolio, we dramatically improved the user 
experience for client employees, making our 
products better aligned with human behavior and how work gets done. These enhancements were instrumental in driving adoption of the 
ADP mobile app to 13 million users, making it a 
top free business app in the iTunes App Store. 
Also developed in our Innovation Labs, the ADP 
DataCloud leverages more than 30 million payroll 
and HR records to provide actionable workforce 
insights to clients, and the ADP Marketplace is 
the first human capital management “app store” 
enabling businesses to better tailor their HCM 
solution to their unique needs. These are just a 
few of the award-winning innovations that were “born” in ADP Innovation Labs.
Our Technology Solutions Have Won Numerous Awards and  
Recognition From Industry AnalystsCorporate Social Responsibility Report 59
 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our WorldApproximately 1,000 ADP associates are working 
in our Innovation Labs – app developers, user 
experience experts, data scientists and even 
anthropologists – to drive and create the next 
generation of human capital management 
solutions . These associates work in collaborative 
workspaces designed to foster creativity, share 
ideas and enhance productivity  . We engage their 
unique talents and perspectives and foster a culture that welcomes new ideas on how to do 
ADP DataCloud
Data is the lifeblood of any organization looking to improve their HCM strategy and 
operations. As a product of our Innovation Labs, 
ADP DataCloud has already made its mark by 
providing best-in-class data analysis tools to 
help professionals measure, compare, predict 
and apply insights uncovered in workforce data. 
Clients have access to reporting, analytics, things differently and better  . Ultimately, we 
want to ensure that our technologists are 
equipped to deliver their best thinking in service 
of our clients and drive their own personal 
professional growth . In the ADP Innovation 
Labs, we are inventing new and better ways 
to service our clients as we create targeted 
solutions that address their unique and diverse 
needs…with a keen focus on the 
human element . 
benchmarking and predictive analytics – powered 
by artificial intelligence and machine learning. 
From suggesting relevant metrics and reports, 
to proactively spotting potential attrition, ADP 
DataCloud gives organizations the unparalleled 
ability to put data to work and help move their 
organizations forward. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 60
 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our WorldADP Marketplace
ADP Marketplace was also born out of our 
Innovation Labs. As the first ever “OS for HR,” 
as coined by Forbes, and recipient of “Awesome 
New Technology” and “Top HR Product” awards 
at the 2015 HR Technology Conference, ADP 
Marketplace is a cloud-based HR app store and 
application programming interface (API) hub. 
ADP Marketplace allows companies to integrate 
employee data from ADP core services across 
other business systems, providers or platforms. 
Clients, industry partners and developers now 
have access to ADP’s APIs, allowing them to 
create a unified HCM ecosystem to meet their 
unique needs. Using secure, single sign-on 
One of the Best Places 
to Work in IT (Computer 
World magazine, 2017)functionality, clients can browse, compare and 
purchase new applications that integrate with 
ADP solutions. 
Whether clients need an app for finding new 
talent, rewarding their employees or tracking time and expenses, there are more than 225 apps 
available and approximately 1,450 developing 
partners. Each live integrated app undergoes 
ADP’s rigorous global security and penetration 
testing to ensure data security. This investment 
not only allows ADP to make positive ESG 
progress, but also allows our clients and partners 
to make ESG progress as well.Corporate Social Responsibility Report 61
 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World010203040506070Patents Granted
201643
201765Driving future innovation
Innovation drives ADP’s leadership in human capital management technology, and we protect our 
investment in innovation, in part, through patent protection. ADP recognizes the contributions of 
associates by offering cash rewards for their inventions for each patent application filed. The number 
of patents granted for our innovations has grown in recent years.
ADP gets some of its best ideas across the 
organization through the Voice of the Client 
and Voice of the Associate programs, which 
survey clients and associates for feedback. These 
initiatives provide direct insight from the front line that can be leveraged to enhance products 
and processes to create a better user experience. 
This feedback helps ADP prioritize its investment 
in innovation to achieve the greatest satisfaction 
for our clients.In recent years, we have increased overall R&D 
spend while significantly shifting our investment 
toward innovation. These investments helped 
ADP receive industry recognition from Frost & 
Sullivan, who named ADP the North American HR Management Solutions Company of the 
Year, citing our company’s development and 
delivery of innovative, user-friendly HRM 
solutions as major factors for the award.Corporate Social Responsibility Report 62
 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our WorldADP Research Institute®
ADP Workforce Vitality Report 
ADP National Employment ReportThe ADP Research Institute is the definitive source for exclusive, data-driven insights in today’s 
working world. The Institute conducts research on crucial trends shaping today’s workplace, 
from wage and employment data to other important workforce issues, such as pay equity, talent 
management and compliance. Leaders from both the private and public sectors turn to the Institute 
for valuable human capital management, employment and workforce insights that enable them to 
make informed decisions that can improve business performance.
Produced by the ADP Research Institute, the ADP Workforce Vitality Report helps business leaders better understand workforce dynamics, which helps them align their workforce and business 
strategies. The report provides details of the ADP Workforce Vitality Index (WVI), a comprehensive, 
quarterly measure of U.S. workforce dynamics that looks at key labor market indicators, such as employment growth, job turnover, wage growth and hours worked. This report yields deeper insights 
on labor market dynamics and trends than previously available. 
Also produced by the ADP Research Institute, the ADP National Employment Report has become a 
key indicator of the U.S. private sector labor market activity and has emerged as a reliable predictor 
of the U.S. government’s jobs report. Since its inception in 2006, the report has drawn conclusions 
about the U.S. workforce based on actual, anonymous payroll information – not survey data – of 
millions of Americans. ADP is able to draw conclusions about the workforce based on real numbers, 
not survey responses. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 63
 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our WorldMaking HCM technology  
accessible to all
ADP has partnered with AudioEye, a company that focuses on inclusion technology, 
to provide users with visual or cognitive disabilities access to our strategic user 
experience, MyADP .   The AudioEye reader is intended to enable an optimized 
experience for users with accessibility needs.Corporate Social Responsibility Report 64
 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World
Through many different initiatives and programs, we at ADP believe that 
our business is only as strong as the communities in which we operate . We 
apply our best assets – our technology, expertise, funding and volunteerism – 
toward helping communities where we live, work and do business .
From contributing time, skills and funds to organizations that do good work; 
to a commitment to working with diverse suppliers; to unlocking the potential 
of people by investing in education – our company encourages and enables 
these contributions to make our communities stronger  . Strong communities 
provide a foundation for our business to continue thriving .Our 
communitiesCorporate Social Responsibility Report 65
 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World
Volunteering 
and givingCorporate Social Responsibility Report 66
 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our WorldEncouraging individual 
philanthropy
At ADP , we believe in giving back to the 
communities where we work and live, and 
we encourage and support our associates’ 
commitment to helping improve their 
communities. To that end, we implement 
corporate programs that encourage our 
associates to give back through workplace 
giving, as well as volunteering their time, 
knowledge and experience to those in need.
ADP offers its U.S. associates the opportunity to 
donate their time during work hours through our 
Volunteer Paid Time Off Program. ADP provides 
associates with eight hours of volunteer paid 
time off per year to engage in community service 
during a regular workday. 
Through this benefit, associates can volunteer 
through team-building activities or as an 
individual at any charitable organization of their choice. In 2016, more than 5,700 associates donated their time to various charitable 
organizations, providing nearly 40,000 hours of 
service to our supported nonprofit agencies and 
charity partners.
In addition, ADP’s myGiving online giving tool 
allows associates to donate to their choice of 
thousands of charitable organizations through 
one-time or recurring payroll deductions, 
credit card or PayPal. ADP associates can also 
participate in our Matching Gift Program in which 
donations to eligible nonprofit organizations in 
the U.S. are matched up to $5,000 per associate 
per calendar year. Associate donations, including 
match, yielded a total of $5.7 million for 2016.
In 2016, more than 5,700 associates donated their time to 
various charitable organizations, providing nearly 40,000 
hours of service to our supported nonprofit agencies 
and charity partners.Corporate Social Responsibility Report 67
 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World
ADP’s Month of Caring
Actively supporting charitiesDuring ADP’s Month of Caring, which takes 
place during the month of May, we encourage 
associates to volunteer in their communities 
through team building events and individual 
service projects. Team building activities are 
offered and coordinated with global charity 
partners such as Junior Achievement, Habitat for 
Humanity, Rise Against Hunger and many local 
community charities. Smaller groups and remote-
work associates are also encouraged to volunteer. 
Other options include signing up for the bone 
marrow registry, donating blood or sending a 
Throughout the year, the ADP Foundation also 
supports teams of ADP associates all over the 
country by sponsoring charitable walks, runs or 
rides. These include American Heart Association 
Heart Walks, Susan G. Komen Race for the Cure 
Walks, Leukemia and Lymphoma Light the Night 
Walks, Pride Walks, American Cancer Society’s 
Making Strides Against Breast Cancer and others.  
In September of 2017, 133 ADP associates, 
including members of the executive committee, 
participated in the Cycle for the Cause, a charity 
bike ride from Boston to New York where participants raised more than $500,000 in 
support of the fight against HIV/AIDS.card to a troop member overseas. Associates may also coordinate volunteer opportunities to 
help out a local food pantry, read to a child with 
disabilities or help rebuild or refurbish a local 
school or church. These activities are a great way 
to improve collaboration, engage our associates 
and make a difference. In May 2017 more than 
7,000 associates participated in 111 organized 
events across 14 countries by volunteering 
17,000 hours and donating $500,000 to more 
than 1,100 nonprofit organizations. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 68
 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World
Humanitarian efforts
We believe that every person deserves a safe, 
satisfied and fulfilling life, and that starts with 
meeting basic needs. ADP is proud to actively 
address the issue of hunger in America and 
around the world. 
Since partnering with Feeding America in 2008, 
the ADP Foundation has donated more than $2.5 
million to their network of more than 200 food 
banks and pantries throughout the U.S. ADP 
also has given more than $850,000 to Oxfam 
International, which works directly with their 
charity partners and allies around the world to 
find lasting solutions to poverty and injustice 
by raising public awareness through education.  
In 2016, more than 1,500 ADP associates 
participated in 25 meal packaging events around the country with Stop Hunger Now, 
aka Rise Against Hunger, where they packaged 
more than 300,000 meals that were shipped 
to impoverished people in Zambia, Uganda, 
Swaziland, Belize, El Salvador and Haiti.
ADP has been a long-standing partner with 
Habitat for Humanity®, working since 2003 to 
help families in need of a decent and affordable 
place to call home. In 2017 alone, ADP donated 
more than $200,000 and helped build homes 
alongside Habitat homeowners in about 30 
locations. Overall, ADP has contributed more 
than $1.5 million to Habitat for Humanity, 
which has benefited more than 25 Habitat 
communities in the U.S., Chile, India, Romania 
and the Philippines. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 69
 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World
In our annual survey of 
employee engagement, ADP 
associates report being highly 
satisfied with the actions our 
company is taking to be socially 
responsible. The Associate 
Engagement Score on this 
topic is 87 percent favorable, 
among our highest scores, and 
has improved by 5 percent 
since 2014. This is supported 
by an increase in volunteer participation by 35 percent and 
associate giving by 9 percent 
from 2015 to 2016. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 70
 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World
During fiscal 2016, all 357 newly leased 
hybrid vehicles used by the sales team were purchased from minority-owned dealerships.Stakeholder 
engagementCorporate Social Responsibility Report 71
 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our WorldAs a global leader in business outsourcing solutions, ADP recognizes that creating partnerships 
with diverse suppliers is a major competitive advantage and a way to grow our presence with small 
businesses in our local communities.  ADP’s supplier diversity mission is to build relationships with 
and purchase goods and services from certified diverse enterprises owned by minorities, women, 
veterans, persons with disabilities, and lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender individuals, all of whom 
reinforce our commitment to diversity and help ADP achieve its growth objectives.
Our U.S. supplier diversity objectives include:
• Actively seeking certified diverse suppliers to meet our Tier 1 (“own purchase 
spend”) targets 
• Ensuring the inclusion of diverse suppliers as a part of our strategic sourcing and procurement process
• Communicating the value of supplier diversity both internally and externally to all stakeholders
• Leveraging our supplier diversity results to meet our clients’ supplier diversity requirements (also referred to as “Tier 2”) 
We measure our success based upon our ability to attain and exceed these objectives.Working with  
diverse suppliersCorporate Social Responsibility Report 72
 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World
Spend in Millions
2015 2014 2016 2017Supplier Diversity Spend
Fiscal Y ear Over Y ear (U.S. Only)
$54.8$155.3
$100.5$61.1$173.8
$112.7$69.2$236.6
$167.4$80.0$301.7
$221.711%
growt h36%
growt h27%
growt h
Tier 1 Tier 2In fiscal year 2017, ADP’s U.S. Supplier Diversity Program executed on a strategy 
that focused on hard-to-penetrate categories, mentoring suppliers, assisting top 
performers in securing new business, increasing Tier 2 spend (i.e., capturing what 
our suppliers spend with diverse suppliers) and improving program communications. 
Sustained efforts paid off, resulting in a 27 percent year-over-year increase in 
spending with diverse U.S. suppliers.Corporate Social Responsibility Report 73
 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our WorldUnlocking potential 
by investing in 
educationPreparing young 
people for the 
working worldJob training and 
assistanceCommitment to 
strengthening 
employability in 
communities 
We believe that employability – helping people around the world access the skills 
and opportunities they need to succeed – is core to sustaining our own 
business and, at the same time, good for society and the world economy  . Through 
education, job skills training, mentoring and career assistance for veterans, underserved youth and other groups, we are able to help people unlock their 
potential to find and maintain fulfilling employment, ultimately helping businesses 
and communities around the world grow and prosper  .
In our communities, our employability efforts fall into these focus areas:Corporate Social Responsibility Report 74
 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World
The ADP Foundation was founded in 1984 and has the mission of providing monetary support to the 
causes and nonprofit organizations that align with the company’s organizational values. One of those 
foundational values is that education is the key to unlocking economic potential for individuals and 
society. Through the ADP Foundation, we provide merit college scholarships to the children of our 
associates, and we support scholarship programs at several science, technology, engineering and 
mathematics (STEM)-oriented universities.Unlocking potential by  
investing in education
ADP Foundation
This past year, the ADP Foundation provided 
more than $1.5 million in education-based 
grants and scholarships. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 75
 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World
Taub Scholarship ProgramADP Cares
In 2016, the ADP Foundation launched ADP 
Cares as part of its commitment to supporting 
the company’s focus on enabling associates to 
be more engaged and productive. ADP Cares 
provides short-term financial assistance with 
In the words of our founder, Henry Taub, 
education is the ticket to prosperity. As the son of an immigrant, he understood the 
importance of hard work and access to higher 
education – values that he instilled in the 
company he founded in 1949. Henry cared 
deeply about his community and the people 
that helped make him successful. The Taub 
scholarship program, sponsored by the ADP 
Foundation, was started in 1974 as a way to 
support those values and pay it forward to the 
next generation of promising talent. 
The program is an example of ADP’s continued 
investment in the workforce of tomorrow and 
the need to maintain a highly educated talent 
pool to meet the needs of our business and 
the economy at large. Many of these students are pursuing careers in STEM, business 
administration and communications – key skills 
needed for the success of ADP in the future.Over the past 43 years, the ADP Foundation has helped more than 900 families pay for 
college. In 2012, in honor of Henry Taub, 
the ADP Foundation introduced The Henry 
Taub Scholars Award with an annual award 
stipend of up to $20,000 USD for each year of 
undergraduate school for up to four years. This 
elite scholarship recognizes the top five student 
applicants for academic and civic excellence. 
The Taub scholarship program is independently 
administered by the National Merit Scholarship 
Corporation (NMSC) in the U.S. and the International Scholarship and Tuition Services 
(ISTS). Collectively, the ADP Foundation has 
awarded more than $5 million in scholarships to 
children of ADP associates, once again linking 
our values to the importance of investing in our 
future workforce.basic living expenses caused by natural disaster, 
family emergency or other sudden, overwhelming 
or unexpected events.  Associate donations 
to ADP Cares are matched 100% by the ADP 
Foundation up to $5,000 per year/per associate.Corporate Social Responsibility Report 76
 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World
MIDAS Programme – Making a Meaningful Difference at Schools
ADP MaST Academy at The University of Texas at El PasoSince 2014, ADP associates in India have 
collaborated with the Pratham Education 
Foundation to implement the MIDAS project 
(Making an Impactful Difference at Schools), 
a program benefiting 60 government schools 
in Hyderabad and Pune, impacting more than 
15,000 children, including 150 visually impaired 
and more than 200 children with autism. MIDAS 
focuses on improving learning levels and 
ADP is investing in the future through the Math 
and Science Teachers (MaST) Academy at The 
University of Texas at El Paso (UTEP). Since the 
MaST Academy’s inception in 2007, the ADP 
Foundation has donated $2,175,000 to provide 
scholarships, professional development seminars, 
roundtables and workshops to UTEP students. 
In 2017, the MaST Academy was renamed ADP 
MaST Academy at UTEP in recognition of the 
ADP Foundation’s ongoing and sustained support of the academy and the students it serves.employable skills in children through the early childhood education program, primary grade 
interventions, upper primary grade interventions 
and computer courses. The MIDAS program 
is designed to enhance learning abilities and 
communication skills for low-performing students 
as well as providing necessities such as running 
water and solar-powered electricity.
Since the Academy’s inception 10 years ago, 
more than 100 students have completed the 
program, with 95 percent of the graduates 
continuing on as high school teachers today. 
UTEP estimates that the ADP MaST alumni have 
touched the lives of approximately 67,000 young 
people, and ADP MaST graduates now teach in 
eight states.SUPPORTED BYCorporate Social Responsibility Report 77
 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World
Junior Achievement
ADP has a long-standing commitment and 
relationship with Junior Achievement around 
the world. Junior Achievement’s pillars of 
work readiness, entrepreneurship and financial 
literacy align perfectly with ADP’s commitment 
to employability. ADP’s yearly financial support 
is more than $100,000 across many affiliates in 
the U.S. and abroad. Senior level executives sit 
on JA boards, and an average of 800 to 1,000 
associates volunteer close to 10,000 hours and 
fundraise for JA programs such as JA BizTown, 
JA Finance Park, JA for a Day and JA Discovery Centers.  
This year, the ADP Brazil Labs office partnered 
with Junior Achievement Rio Grande do Sul to 
build the unique curriculum “Girl for IT” that provides girls in underserved public schools 
in their first year of high school three days of 
logic, programming and fun. The instruction is 
delivered after school at the ADP Brazil Labs 
site delivered by ADP volunteers. In 2017, ADP 
was also honored with the President’s Volunteer 
Service Award for the 2015-2016 period from 
Junior Achievement of New Jersey.In Barcelona, ADP participated in the “Mini-
Empresas” program by assisting students in 
creating their business plans and inviting them to 
a Toastmasters event at a local ADP office.Preparing young people for 
the working worldCorporate Social Responsibility Report 78
 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World
In the U.S., ADP partners with organizations focused on empowering young women, 
such as Girls Inc.®, AnitaB.org and Dress for Success.
In the UK, ADP sponsors a “Young Enterprise” award program for 16 to 18-year-olds challenged with setting up and running their own businesses.Working to empower  
young women 
“Young Enterprise”  
award programCorporate Social Responsibility Report 79
 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our WorldIn India, ‘Jeevika’ is a women empowerment initiative that was started in 2014 with the help of the non-
governmental organization (NGO), Nirmaan. This program aims at providing financial independence 
and stability to women from some of the most impoverished communities of Hyderabad and Pune. 
Jeevika enables this by imparting vocational skills such as stitching, sewing and henna art. Over the 
last three years, approximately 500 women have been trained at these centers, and of these, 300 
women have been successful in earning a livelihood independently. In some cases, these women have 
become the primary income earner in their respective households. 
ADP India has partnered with Bhumika Women’s Collective, an NGO, in operating a toll-free helpline 
that supports women in distress. This initiative, started in 2015, receives over 2,500 calls each year 
with issues related to domestic violence, harassment, etc. Over the years, this helpline has become a 
lifeline for women in need. The toll-free number is now being published as part of a textbook in the 
government schools, which is a testimony to the success and the continued need of this helpline.Women’s vocational center
Women’s toll-free helplineCorporate Social Responsibility Report 80
 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World
Dress for Success®, Steps 2 Success Powered by ADP  
ADP associates support Dress for Success®, a nonprofit organization that provides interview suits, 
confidence boosts and career development to low-income women in more than 75 cities worldwide.
Steps 2 Success offers free job-readiness boot camps that empower women to land their next job 
opportunity. Participants learn how to develop multi-pronged job search strategies and how to interview 
with confidence to land their next job. This program provides tools, resources, strategy planning and necessary connections to get started in their job search. Our global associates, including executive 
women from Women in Leadership (WIL), support many local affiliates.Corporate Social Responsibility Report 81
 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our WorldADP’s Veterans’ Initiatives program exists to 
attract, hire and develop veteran talent for ADP 
in order to expand the pipeline of qualified 
veteran and military spouse talent necessary to 
address ADP’s business needs. The program is a 
collaborative effort among ADP’s global talent 
acquisition team, corporate social responsibility 
and diversity team, military business resource 
group (BRG), and key human resources and 
business leaders.  We are also increasing ADP’s 
visibility in the veteran community through 
associate engagement and the expansion of the Military Strong BRG.  
In just two years, veteran hires have 
increased by 800 percent, and we plan to double 
that number again in the upcoming year. Membership in the military BRG has more  Job training  
and assistance
ADP’s Veterans’ Initiatives 
than quadrupled since July 2015, and it has launched new chapters in 17 offices around  
the country, as well as two others internationally. 
Our #WeHireHeroes program is focused on 
building a veteran hiring, onboarding and 
mentorship program.
We believe that veterans are a great source of 
talent for ADP’s business needs, due to both the 
tangible and intangible skills they bring with them 
from the military. Their resilience, adaptability, 
innovative spirit and learning agility, combined 
with their leadership and management training, 
communications and team-building skills, and 
their deep sense of loyalty, integrity and service 
to something greater than themselves make them 
great ADP associates whose innate values align very closely with ADP’s seven core values. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 82
 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World
Top 25 Military Friendly 
Employer AwardTop 20 Military Friendly 
Spouse Employer 
AwardVeterans are making a big impact each and every 
day at ADP . These inspiring men and women bring their collective talents, work ethic and purpose to the workplace and to the communities in which we live. So, the fact that we are committed to hiring more veterans is not just the right thing to do, it is also the right business decision.“
“– ADP President and CEO, Carlos Rodriguez Corporate Social Responsibility Report 83
 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World
Our 
world“Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 84Our commitment 
to environmental 
sustainability
At ADP , we make proactive decisions every day 
in our offices, homes and communities to help 
protect the environment and conserve resources . 
ADP considers environmental sustainability to be 
a key initiative in our strategic corporate social 
responsibility program . Our goal is to reduce 
waste, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and our 
energy needs across the globe through many 
different initiatives including recycling programs, 
LEED certified buildings, environmental risks and 
disaster preparedness for our facilities; providing 
hybrid cars for our sales force; and constantly reviewing opportunities for alternative energy 
sources and reducing energy consumption in 
our buildings .
As a global corporate citizen, one of our 
priorities is to identify opportunities where our efforts can have the greatest impact . With initiatives that conserve both paper and energy, 
we are focused on driving efficiency throughout 
our operations to do good for the planet and 
for our business . In addition, we have created 
products, such as paperless payroll and delivery, 
that help our clients reduce their environmental 
impact as well . 
From water consumption and reducing emissions 
to energy conservation and working with 
vendors who share our values on sustainability, 
we track an array of activities and metrics to help 
us understand what we’re doing today – 
and what we can be doing tomorrow – to help 
protect and nurture our local and global 
resources, as well as create value for our company and clients .Corporate Social Responsibility Report 85
 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our WorldAt ADP , we are continually assessing and improving our efforts through cross-functional collaboration. 
With guidance from senior leaders in global procurement, global product and technology, human 
resources and corporate real estate and facilities, each discipline reviews risks by business unit and 
location. ADP monitors these challenges and opportunities through assessments of all worksites, data 
centers and ADP mobile assets.
We regularly review our identified risks and opportunities that may have a significant effect on our 
associates and our business. The criteria for determining priorities include: 
Because our clients have the opportunity to choose traditional paper-based products or mobile 
applications and electronic reports, we offer both options to meet the needs of their organizations 
and employees. As a result, paper usage, GHG emissions and energy use were identified as our company’s biggest environmental impacts.  
ADP continues to seek opportunities to reduce our GHG emissions, paper and energy usage as well 
as waste management through reduction, recycling and diversion.Prioritizing our 
environmental efforts
• The evaluation of the likelihood and severity of the risk or opportunity based on the nature 
and size of the risk or opportunity
• The scope of impact on stakeholder communities, including associates, clients, shareholders and local and global communities, which could be enough to damage the 
company’s reputation or result in business losses
• The investment required to implement changes 
• The potential financial and environmental return on investmentIntroduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 86ADP provides comprehensive payroll and HR 
services, and as such, had previously been a 
heavy generator of paper pay statements and 
related products. Our customers’ preferences 
have changed in recent years and many want 
to move away from paper products as they 
become more aware of environmental issues 
and appreciate the flexibility of access to 
immediate information. We have been able to 
take advantage of this opportunity by providing 
the same payroll and HR services through digital 
methods, mobile applications and employee paycards. By leveraging innovative technology Paper waste reduction
Office and print center 
paper recycling
ADP clients have a choice of receiving 
electronic or paper-based statements, which has 
dramatically reduced the amount of paper we 
generate. For the paper we do use, ADP chooses 
100 percent recycled office print in many larger 
locations such as our corporate headquarters in 
Roseland, New Jersey, and the major OneADP 
sites – Norfolk, Virginia; Maitland, Florida; and 
Tempe, Arizona. Paper discarded from the ADP 
print centers is 100 percent recycled.and alternate payment solutions, ADP can meet our clients’ needs while making our operations 
more sustainable.  
By working with our clients, the CSR team and 
sales teams encourage the use of paperless 
services and mobile applications. This has had 
a dual benefit of meeting customer needs and 
supporting the goal of making our company more sustainable. In our Small Business Solutions 
division, the number of clients that use the 
eDelivery products continues to rise.  Requests 
for electronic services have increased from 
5 percent in 2014 to 43 percent in 2016. 
Confidential information generated in the office 
is always shredded and recycled, and ADP is 
working in conjunction with our paper shred 
vendors on a program for associates to recycle all 
paper within the next year. 
During 2016, ADP’s paper and cardboard 
recycling initiatives saved 4,159 tons of waste and 
70,703 trees, which prevented 249,540 pounds of 
air pollutants from being released.Corporate Social Responsibility Report 87
 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our WorldDuring fiscal year 2016, all 357 newly leased 
hybrid vehicles used by the sales team were purchased from minority-owned dealerships.ADP is striving to reduce carbon dioxide 
emissions by a minimum of 10 percent in the 
next five years. As part of ADP’s strategy to 
reduce GHG emissions, managers of our sales 
vehicle fleet, real estate, technology and human 
resources teams helped us realize that our GHG 
emissions originate primarily from our facilities, 
and these emissions could continue to grow 
if no action were taken to mitigate them. This 
group therefore worked with the CSR team and 
ADP’s consulting partners to identify potential 
GHG-reducing initiatives. Assessment reports were presented to the company’s CSRO, chief 
procurement officer and vice president, corporate 
real estate and facilities to review and identify 
emissions-reduction projects. Feasibility analyses GHG emissions reduction
were conducted before implementing projects 
to determine the financial and environmental 
performance of the proposed projects. 
Building efficiency has been a priority in these 
new projects. For example, ADP upgraded HVAC units and installed LED lighting in facilities and 
parking lots. ADP also continually identifies 
opportunities to minimize climate impact in 
the future.
ADP continues to seek opportunities to reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions related to paper 
and tax statements requested by hundreds of 
thousands of clients. 
At ADP , we consider the GHG emissions 
within these primary areas:
Fleet Travel Data Centers Location-Based 
Savings  Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 88Fleet Cumulative Tons CO2 Avoided Over Time
3,970 tons of CO2 diverted since 2013562
20131,877
20143,018
20153,970
2016050010001500200025003000350040004500GHG – Fleet
To support our goal of reducing greenhouse gas 
emissions, we continue to work with our suppliers 
to select vehicles that reduce carbon emissions. 
ADP’s entire North American sales fleet has been 
replaced with vehicles that are more fuel-efficient, 
less polluting and more environmentally friendly.
Since ADP has been replacing the fleet with 
eco-friendly cars, the average fuel efficiency has 
increased, saving ADP on fuel purchases and 
saving the environment from approximately 4,000 
tons of carbon dioxide.
ADP , in coordination with our fleet asset 
management company, is currently analyzing associate vehicle usage to determine where fully 
electric vehicles can be successfully deployed 
with the goal of introducing them to the field 
in FY19.
This conversion is a major accomplishment for 
ADP and, together with the electric vehicle goal, 
demonstrates our leadership in green fleet and 
sustainability practices.Corporate Social Responsibility Report 89
 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our WorldAnnual Growth of Hybrid Vehicles in ADP FleetFleet Average Miles Per Gallon
020040060080010001200
2014 2015 2016 20171041
741802
225403
291
331075100.0%
90.0%
80.0%
70.0%
60.0%
50.0%
40.0%
30.0%
20.0%
10.0%
0.0%97%
72%
35%
18%2013 2014 2015 201625.9 mp g27.1 mp g30.0 mp g33.0 mp gAverage Miles per Gallo n36
3534
33
32
31
3029
28
2726
0Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 902016 Charging Stations, Ports and Impacts 
8,555 Charging
Sessions33,948 kg of
GHG Diverted10,112 Gallons
of Gas SavedGHG – Location-based savings
One of the criteria considered when selecting a new ADP location is accessibility to public 
transportation. In addition, ADP will often negotiate with landlords of leased locations for the 
installation of bike racks and electric vehicle charging stations. In buildings that ADP manages, there 
are designated carpool-preferred parking spaces.  
As of June 2017, the number of charging stations increased to 69 ports and 35 stations.Number of Stations 22
44Total
Number of PortsCorporate Social Responsibility Report 91
 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our WorldGHG – Travel
The ADP corporate travel team produces a 
quarterly associate newsletter that provides 
helpful environmentally friendly tips to use 
when traveling, such as flying non-stop and 
following the vendors’ recommendations for 
energy conservation.
ADP’s preferred travel vendors invest in and 
promote green initiatives; for example, ADP’s 
preferred car rental vendor recycles all motor 
oil, oil filters, parts and brake fluids. Car wash 
systems recycle and reuse a high percentage 
of wastewater. 
Our hotel partners reduce water and energy use 
throughout their processes and systems. Linen 
re-use during extended stay for towels and sheets is commonplace. Water-conserving bath 
fixtures and high efficiency heating and cooling 
systems are in place. Many partners have in-room 
key card switch controls, which turns all lights off 
when removing the key card. 
ADP’s preferred airline vendor has reported a 
40 percent improvement in fuel efficiency since 
1991 as a result of new fuel-efficient aircraft, the 
use of low-carbon bio-fuels and implementing 
operational and procedural changes to drive 
conservation. As a result, even though there was 
significant increase in the number of miles flown 
(more than 4 million versus prior year) by ADP 
associates, the cost per CO2 reduced 7 percent 
in 2016.Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 92ADP U.S. Travel
Departure  dates:  January 1 to December 31, 2016
Trip Info Summary
Miles Flown
Air C O2 Emissions (lbs.)
Cost per C O2
Long Haul 8,360
66,293
61,11827,665,268
73,537,942
22,674,17313,398,166
26,332,046
13,892,882Medium Haul
Short Hau l
Long Haul 1
0
1,4543,792
00
227,556809
26,575 70,471 3,827,48248,611Medium Haul
Short Hau l124,108,731
53,662,514
$0 .52Totals
Long Haul / Short Haul # of Segs Miles CO2 (lbs.)
Long Haul / Short Haul
Car Rental Summary# of Segs Miles CO2 (lbs.)
# Cars # Days CO2 (lbs.)Air
Rail
Car Rental0Corporate Social Responsibility Report 93
 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our WorldOur Data Centers are ISO Certified for 
the following:
9001:  Quality Management – ensures we provide consistent quality 
and meet the needs of customers and other stakeholders
27001:  Information Security Management – includes legal, physical 
and technical controls; ensures we follow ADP’s security policies; 
ensures confidentiality, availability and integrity of data
20000:  IT Service Management – DC Site Management and 
Mainframe/Midrange Services are covered; includes design, 
transition, delivery and improvement of servicesGHG – Data centers
ADP is not a large producer of direct GHG emissions; however, our main emission-generating sources 
are our facilities – both offices and data centers. ADP is working on reducing carbon emissions from 
our data centers primarily by improving energy efficiency. 
The most important components of ADP’s short-term strategy to reduce emissions at our data 
centers include identifying areas of passive design energy savings, such as better use of natural light, updating floor design in our office buildings and installing high-efficiency appliances 
and infrastructure.
For the second consecutive year, ADP has received an A- rating by CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) 
for our global efforts.Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 94Our global procurement and corporate real 
estate teams track environmental impacts in three 
categories: emission, diversion and utility usage, 
and they coordinate the collection of information 
regarding these impacts with ADP data and 
print centers. 
In corporate real estate, utility usage is tracked in 
large ADP managed facilities. For ADP’s smaller 
sites, electricity consumption was extrapolated 
based on the energy intensity (kWh per SF) of 
the facilities with empirical utility data from the Energy conservation
Facilities green initiatives
At ADP , we are initiating green initiatives to build 
awareness of every associates’ responsibility to 
do their part in conserving energy – from turning 
off computer monitors at the end of the workday, actively managed facilities. These small facilities 
represent a small portion of ADP’s overall 
portfolio, while the main facilities with empirical 
data represent a majority of ADP’s 
energy consumption.
Dashboards tracking trends in utility consumption 
of oil, gas, electric and water are gathered by 
our global procurement group and are reported 
semi-annually to the CSRO, chief procurement 
officer and vice president, corporate real estate 
and facilities.
to donating excess office supplies and furniture; 
recycling metal, glass, paper, electronics and 
cardboard; and virtual meetings to engage 
associates around the world.Corporate Social Responsibility Report 95
 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our WorldManaging energy, waste and  
emissions diversion
Recording energy usage enables ADP to strategically monitor improvements as a result of 
Building Management System installations and upgrades, and we continually evaluate opportunities 
for improvement.
Through energy conservation programs, 2016 utility 
consumption has decreased since 2015
Electric 
-6.9% -7.4%Water
-5.6%Gas 
Building management systems
LED lighting HVAC upgrades
Low-water landscaping
Installation of a fuel cel lIntroduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 962016 – 2017 projects
A sample of projects implemented in 2016 and 2017 includes: 
• The installation or replacement of 1.5 to 2 ton HVAC units in 12 locations 
to gain motor efficiencies, thus using less electricity to move the same 
amount of air
• Replacement or installation of 4-stroke generators in two locations, 
gaining efficiencies from emissions
• Replacement or installation of efficient LED lighting in parking lots and office interiors at ten locations
• Replacement of Building Management Systems in 11 locations to increase efficiency in upgraded HVAC systems
• Upgrading of outdated high-voltage electrical equipment in 10 locations with newer, more efficient technologies
• Improvement or replacement water treatment systems in two locations for better efficiencies and cleaner waterCorporate Social Responsibility Report 97
 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our WorldDesign with  
conservation in mind
Creating a sustainable workplace has so many more benefits than simply reducing our company’s 
ecological footprint. While we are mindful of using energy-conserving features – such as water-
reducing bathroom fixtures, Energy Star-rated appliances and LED lighting – we also benefit from 
interior design that brings in natural light and makes use of furniture and carpet made from recycled 
materials. An environmentally friendly workplace is not only good for the planet, but good for our 
associates as well.
Recycling: Paper Shred
The 2,471 tons r ecycled in 2016
saved over 17,297,000 gallon s of
water used to make new paper.
Electric Car Charging
In 2016 we avoided the GHG
from 
82,949 miles  of driving gas-
power ed vehicles.Solid W aste
In 2016, 194 fewer tons of soli d
waste went to the landfill, a 
10%
reduction  from 2015.Donations
In 2016 the 1,103 file cabinets that
we donated, lined up, would equal
the length of 9 football field s.
Electricity
12,592,039 fewer kWh wer e used in
2016 over 2015, enough electricity to
light 38,274 LED bulbs  for a year!
Recycling: PA G
Recycling 329.5 tons of PA G in
2016 saved over 258,359 gallon s
of oil.Construction Debris
143,294 kW h is the ener gy savings
in 2016 fro m recycling construction
debris metal.
Fleet
ADP’ s fleet of cars saved 952 ton s
of CO2 in 2016.Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 98ADP – La Palma, California Project  
2016
energ y generated1,175,599 kWh
CO2 reduction:
356,088Electricity output:
1,021,772 kWhpounds of coal not burned142,798
efficiency62%FuelInvestments in renewable energy
ADP intends to continue to invest in renewable energy to provide for our electricity needs, including 
fuel cell usage in California.
Fuel cell technology not only provides clean, sustainable energy, but the fuel cell provides enough 
electricity to support 80 percent of the building’s energy needs.Corporate Social Responsibility Report 99
 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our WorldLEED-certified buildings
Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design 
(LEED) is a green building certification program 
that recognizes best-in-class building strategies 
and practices. To receive LEED certification, 
construction projects must satisfy certain 
prerequisites, including innovations in design, 
water efficiency, materials and resources, 
and sustainability.
ADP is continuing to strive for and receive 
LEED certifications for our construction projects 
wherever possible. We have received four such 
honors to date, and we are currently tracking 
for two more. Our current locations with LEED 
certification are Pasadena, California; the Chelsea 
Lab in New York City; Augusta, Georgia; and 
the San Felipe building in El Paso, Texas. We are tracking for certification in our Augusta 
Expansion and our Norfolk, Virginia, One 
ADP Center.  
The project management and facilities teams 
consider exterior improvements, water efficiency, 
energy consumption and materials sourced 
with recycled content when carefully managing 
construction activities as key initiatives needed to 
pursue LEED certification. Consideration for best practices in design and construction are given to:
• Incorporating storm water quality and 
quantity control strategies
• Increasing the amount of native, adaptive, hardy planting and trees 
with shade cover 
• Installing a highly reflective roof, so 
the heat island from hardscape is 
reduced dramatically
• Utilizing exterior lighting that uses 
cut-offs, projecting light only where it 
is needed and reducing disruption to 
nocturnal life and habitats
Water efficiency is also something to consider 
as part of building standards when upgrading. Reducing the use of water through efficient 
fixtures will save a significant amount of water per 
year as compared with a conventional 
(non-LEED) project. 
Energy consumption is reduced through the 
use of efficient light fixtures, HVAC units and 
mechanical design, Energy Star equipment 
and appliances. Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 100Chelsea Labs, New Y ork City
135 W est 18th Str eetAugusta, Geor gia (original building)
One ADP Drive
Pasadena, California
55 South Lake Str eetLEED Gol d
El Paso, T exas
7650 San Felipe Drive
Norfolk, Vi rginia (In Pr ocess)
One Commer cial Place
Augusta, Geor gia Expansion (In Pr ocess)
One ADP DriveLEED Silver2 1
ADP Properties that have received LEED certification:Materials sourcing is managed carefully by 
selecting materials with high levels of recycled 
content. The demand for raw materials is 
therefore reduced, and the carbon impact of 
material sourcing is dramatically reduced by 
purchasing products harvested and manufactured 
within a 500-mile radius. An added benefit is 
that associate wellness is improved through the selection of low or no VOC (volatile organic 
compounds) materials and finishes. 
Construction activities are managed carefully by 
reducing construction activity pollution on the site, tracking and recycling all demolition waste 
and improving air quality for contractors and 
occupants with indoor air quality best practices.Corporate Social Responsibility Report 101
 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World
The Turn Off Monitors energy-reduction 
campaign is just one green initiative where ADP 
engages its associates in taking action toward 
sustainability. The corporate social responsibility 
group also works with local engagement 
volunteers on sustainability efforts that affect Resource use and  
waste management 
their communities, with activities that include cleaning out buildings and making donations of 
gifts in kind, tree planting, cleaning waterways 
and electric vehicle showcases. ADP publishes a 
monthly newsletter on our website to highlight 
sustainability efforts throughout our company.Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 102
Recycling and waste diversion
In 2016 we achieved a 16 percent increase in recycling plastic, metal and glass at each of our 
managed facilities. In 2017 and beyond, we are initiating campaigns to remind associates of the 
recycling receptacles and urging individuals to use reusable cups and dishware. Within the US, each 
ADP office with 50+ associates has a water filtration system, thus reducing the need for water bottles. 
Offices are also equipped with single-use coffee stations that use filtered tap water. As a result of 
these efforts, we are expecting a 20 percent decrease in the volume of recycled waste compared 
to last year.
Construction Debris
On all construction sites for ADP buildings, debris, packaging and demolition is 
recycled and recorded by project. In 2016, 92 percent of debris – 3,563 tons – 
was recycled. 
At our corporate headquarters in the U.S., recycled construction materials have 
been used in new building projects.Corporate Social Responsibility Report 103
 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our WorldPlastic, Aluminum and Glass Recycling
ADP has increased the plastic, aluminum and glass (PAG) program in all facilities. 
While details of the volume are only available for ADP managed facilities, the facility 
managers and corporate real estate teams work with landlords to ensure they are 
providing recycling services according to the local municipality.
Currently there are 38 ADP managed sites that represent two-thirds of the square 
footage real estate portfolio reporting plastic, metal and glass recycling information.
In 2016, ADP recycled 329 tons of plastic, aluminum and glass, which is up 16 
percent over 2015. The first two quarters of 2017 yielded 122.2 tons of 
recycled waste.
All buildings have designated recycling containers.  Most buildings recycle using 
single stream recycling, which means the trash is collected in the office and the 
commingled mixture of trash and recyclables are separated for reuse at a materials 
recovery facility.Gift-in-Kind Donations 
During office clean-out initiatives, many times our company finds we no longer need furniture or office supplies. Instead of sending these items to the landfill, we find 
local community nonprofit organizations and donate these items to them. To date, 
more than 7,711 pieces of furniture and office supplies have been donated, resulting 
in 479.8 tons being diverted from landfills.Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 104In 2015-16 the sear ch fo r
enhancements to the complimentary
coffee and filter ed water services
inspir ed the o ffice services team to
select a vendor that r ecycles
the cof fee pods and r educes th e
need for water bottles.
At all locations wit h
50+ associates
Biodegradable servewar e
available in cafeterias and cafes.Somat Food W aste Pulping
Systems in Alphare tta and Norfolk
reduce food waste to bags that
can be r eused as mulch.
Introduced r eusable lidded
cups or hot/cold drinks and
phased out Styr ofoam pr oducts
from in-house or dering.2016 Office Services ProjectsCafeteria Sustainable Products
Over the last few years, ADP has been working toward reducing disposable water 
bottle usage by installing filtered water systems at most sites. In addition, we are 
working with our coffee vendor to provide single use recyclable coffee pods to 
reduce waste. Cafeteria vendors in ADP’s cafeterias use biodegradable serving 
products, and all Styrofoam products have been eliminated from purchase through 
the procurement purchasing system.Corporate Social Responsibility Report 105
 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our WorldRecycled/Remarketed Materials at ADP FacilitiesElectronic Waste
ADP manages all unusable or dated electronic assets through an electronic 
waste recycler/reseller. The vendor provides services to either reuse or recycle all 
components of the electronic waste. This includes the disposition of ADP assets 
such as:
• Servers
• Network equipment (switches, routers, security appliances)
• Data storage libraries
• Desktops, workstations
• Laptops, notebooks
• Printers, copiers, fax machines, plotters
• PBX units
• Hard drives
ADP’s Electronic Waste Vendor Agreement mandates data eradication for all data 
storage media including, but not limited to, hard drives, tapes and other media by 
wiping, degaussing or shredding in order to render the drive or storage repository 
inoperable and ensure that the data is irretrievable prior to the equipment leaving 
any ADP location.
Sites in Europe and Asia go beyond required regulations aimed at ensuring 
environmentally responsible waste disposal and the recycling or remarketing of old 
computers and mobile phones.
Q4 2016
Q1 2017
Q2 2017Recycled
Weight
51,754
73,566
54,792Remarketed
Weight
115
2,244
1,019Recycled
Quantity
1,224
1,767
890Remarketed
Quantity
4
207
74Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 106Reduction in Office Paper Use
2015 2016110,432,014
pages94,359,906
pagesPrinter Toner
All ADP offices are equipped with multi-function device printers/scanners/copiers 
placed in strategic locations throughout the workspace. This has eliminated the 
need for personal printers, including additional cartridges and paper. As a result of 
reducing the number of printers, this initiative has also had the added benefit of 
reducing electricity consumption. 
Office paper usage has also been reduced, and all printer cartridges are recycled.Corporate Social Responsibility Report 107
 Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our WorldAspects of climate change that can influence or have influenced our company’s 
business, operations and culture include: potential business interruption due to 
weather-related issues that can affect the delivery of payroll; financial implications 
of increasing energy costs and property damage from weather-related incidents; 
potential regulatory changes; and the need to protect ADP’s brand 
and reputation. Climate change and ADP 
Climate change influences  
our operating practices
We are focused on changes in our operational practices as we move toward achieving lower 
emissions through energy-reduction activities. 
ADP is reducing carbon emissions from our 
offices and data centers by improving energy 
efficiency, consolidating and redesigning work 
space to optimize productivity, and selecting 
offices near public transportation. 
The most important components include 
identifying areas of passive design energy 
savings, such as retrofitting and updating floor 
design in our office buildings and installing 
high-efficiency appliances and infrastructure 
in our data centers. ADP has implemented 
emission-reducing activities including improving 
HVAC systems, optimizing working schedules and reducing the number of inefficient 
buildings with high vacancy.ADP periodically reviews all systems to 
accommodate any new opportunities or 
regulations. Business decisions to make equipment 
changes are integrated into the overall strategic 
capital plan and location strategy of the company 
to ensure that our long-term commitment toward 
energy use reduction is included at all steps within 
the decision process. 
ADP is striving to reach a reduction of 10 percent 
by 2020, and we expect to realize yearly 
emission reductions in the long term. One of our 
company’s long-term climate change objectives is to have more clients use our paperless services, 
including mobile apps, to help reduce paper use 
and the associated climate change impacts while 
improving service to our global clients.Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 108Looking ahead
ADP is committed to implementing new opportunities for increasing efficiencies and reducing our 
impact, including: 
• Reviewing opportunities for renewable energy options, such as fuel cell 
in California  
• Continuing to review and upgrade BMS (Building Management Systems) to gain efficiencies in facility operations
• Utilizing LED lighting in buildings and parking lots, whenever possible 
• Enhancing our recycling program 
• Pursuing LEED certifications, whenever possible
Our commitment
ADP is committed to delivering a more human, simple and sustainable business process for all of 
those we serve. We believe that our vision for corporate social responsibility will attract, engage and 
retain top talent, bolster continued business performance and conserve environmental resources for 
our company and our clients. The resulting financial edge, increased associate engagement scores 
and positive perceptions among our associates, investors, clients and the market at large will produce 
a competitive advantage. With powerful software, continuous innovation and a human touch, we 
pledge to help build a better workforce – for our company, our associates, our clients and our world. Introduction         Our Company         Our Associates         Our Clients         Our Communities         Our World Corporate Social Responsibility Report 109ADP , the ADP logo and ADP A more human resource are registered trademarks of ADP , LLC .  All other marks are the 
property of their respective owners . Copyright © 2018 ADP , LLC .  All rights reserved .