Innovating a Better 
Way to Work
Global Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report
Issued: November 2019Table of Contents
CEO Message
A message from Carlos Rodriguez 3Governance  4
Our Board 5
Ethics and compliance 7
Data privacy 9
Global security 11Innovation  12
ADP’s innovation strategy 13
Current trends driving  
our innovation 14
Facilitating our clients’  
sustainability performance 16Associates  18
Diversity and Inclusion 19
Talent recruitment  
and retention 24
Training and development 26
Awards and recognition 28
Community  29
Philanthropy and volunteering 30
Elevating communities  
around the world 35Environment  40
Energy and greenhouse  
gas reductions 41
Waste management 45
Green initiatives 47GRI Index  48Purple
|  2The world of work is constantly changing. Through every evo-
lution, it consistently creates a space for people from all walks 
of life to come together and achieve common goals. That prin-
ciple guides ADP as a trusted partner providing human capital 
management technology to employers around the world. From 
hire to retire and full-time to freelance, people are at the center 
of everything we do, and we are grateful for the opportunity 
to design a better world at work for everyone. 
From our humble beginnings as a New Jersey startup more 
than 70 years ago, we have expanded to become one of the 
world’s largest business-to-business outsourcers with 58,000 
associates worldwide. Today, ADP serves approximately 
810,000 clients in 140 countries and territories. Our progress 
over time means we have the experience and scale to perfectly  
tailor solutions for businesses of all sizes, across all industries.
Diversity and inclusion are business imperatives that drive 
innovation and productivity. This philosophy remains a priority 
for us as a good corporate citizen and technology leader for 
the global workforce. We know that ADP’s diverse, talented 
associates fuel the innovations that enable our success. As a 
company, we are committed to their health and well-being, as 
they are the hearts and minds driving our work and contrib-
uting to the global community. We are dedicated to nurturing 
and developing people, while creating a level playing field for 
all talent to reach their full potential.
We also play a vital role in helping our client organizations 
take care of their employees. Our clients entrust us to help 
them more effectively manage, deploy, compensate and  
serve the human resource needs of their people, while also handling and protecting their most sensitive data. With this 
trust comes great responsibility—a responsibility we take 
very seriously. We believe we have a duty to enable inclusion 
in the workforce for the benefit of all workers and the busi-
nesses they support. 
ADP also embraces our role in giving back and generating a  
lasting, positive impact on the communities in which we work 
and live. Along with 180 CEOs, we signed a public corporate 
purpose statement that pledges our commitment to the fair and 
ethical treatment of all of our stakeholders. Corporate social 
responsibility (CSR) is a core principle within ADP values, and 
it encompasses everything from corporate governance, ethics 
and environmental stewardship, to diversity, philanthropy and 
promoting associate success around the world.
At ADP, we see business success and the needs of citizens  
and communities as inextricably linked —forces that must be in 
balance in order to drive and achieve forward progress. We also 
firmly believe that business can—and should—have a positive 
impact on the world. That’s why we constantly strive to embed 
socially responsible principles and practices into everything we 
do. Above all, we’re excited about the future and are committed 
to continue making positive contributions that will benefit the 
world in which we live in today and future generations alike.
Sincerely,
 
Carlos Rodriguez 
President and CEO“   ADP also embraces 
our role in giving 
back and generating 
a lasting, positive 
impact on the 
communities in 
which we work  
and live.”
Letter from the President & Chief Executive Officer
Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index
|  3Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
Governance
ADP delivers on its brand promise 
through a culture of ethics, 
compliance and good governance. 
Our commitment to doing the right 
thing is integral to our business 
strategy and operating principles, 
and forms the foundation of the 
products we design for our clients. 
This culture starts with our Board of 
Directors and cascades through our 
organization, ensuring that every 
associate plays a role in living up to 
our own high expectations.
|  4
Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportOur Board of Directors is committed to sound corporate 
governance practices that provide our shareholders with 
meaningful rights and foster strong independent lead-
ership in our board room. We firmly believe that creating 
sustainable long-term value for shareholders is enabled 
through such strong governance practices and open dia-
logue through continuous direct engagement.
Risk and strategy oversight
Our Board of Directors provides oversight with respect to 
the Company’s enterprise risk assessment and integrated 
risk management activities, which are designed to identify, 
prioritize, assess, monitor and mitigate the various risks 
confronting the Company, including risks that are related 
to the achievement of the Company’s operational and 
financial strategy. Our directors also take an active role in 
the oversight of the Company’s strategy at both a board 
and committee level, with management responsible for the 
execution of our business strategy.ESG governance
Our Board of Directors is squarely focused on the sustain-
ability of our business for the long term. In line with this 
focus, the nominating/corporate governance committee 
oversees the Company’s environmental, social and gover-
nance (ESG) policies and programs. 
The committee receives periodic reports and updates from 
ADP’s Chief Diversity, Inclusion and CSR Officer (CSRO) 
and reports back on these matters to the full Board. Our 
Board has complete and open access to our CSRO.Our Board
For more information 
on the board’s com-
mittees, governance 
policies and practices, 
including standards 
for director indepen-
dence, qualifications 
for board membership 
and the process for 
evaluating board 
performance, please 
refer to the Corporate 
Governance Section   
of our website.
|  5
Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportMessage from the Chief Diversity, Inclusion and CSR Officer
ADP’s Chief Diversity, Inclusion and CSR Officer (CSRO) reports to the Chief Human Resources Officer and provides lead -
ership and direction on key corporate social responsibility issues, including ESG and sustainability-related matters. 
The CSRO spearheads our ESG Steering Committee and works in partnership with executives and teams across the 
Company to create and drive our CSR strategies, policies, initiatives and processes.
It is with deep appreciation that we bid farewell to Rita Mitjans. During her legacy as CSRO, ADP made great progress in 
continuing to build a diverse and inclusive workforce and impacting the communities we serve. The initiatives Rita lead, 
in alignment with our core values, helped strengthen our culture. As she retires, we are pleased to announce our incoming 
CSRO, Aisha Thomas-Petit. Read Bio
ESG Steering Committee
Aisha Thomas-Petit 
Chief Diversity, Inclusion  
and CSR Officer 
Read Bio
Sreeni Kutam 
Chief Human  
Resources Officer  
Read Bio
Stuart Sackman 
Corporate Vice President, 
Global Shared Services  
Read Bio
Michael Bonarti 
Corporate Vice President, 
General Counsel and Secretary  
Read Bio
Roland Cloutier 
Corporate Vice President,  
Global Security
Dorothy Wisniowski 
Vice President, Assistant 
Corporate Secretary
Christian Greyenbuhl 
Vice President, Investor 
Relations
Dawn Verrinder 
Program Leader, Corporate 
Social Responsibility 
|  6
Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportWe are proud of our culture and values—they are criti-
cal factors in our ongoing success. Our first core value, 
“Integrity is Everything,” sets the tone for our Company, 
and is one of our competitive differentiators. 
Important policies that guide ADP include:
• Code of Business Conduct & Ethics
•  Code of Ethics for Principal Executive Officer and Senior 
Financial Officers
• Anti-Bribery Policy
• Insider Trading Policy
• Modern Slavery Statement
• Vendor Code of Conduct
Global ethics
The Global Ethics Team offers ADP associates training, 
advice, counsel and support on all aspects of the Code 
of Business Conduct and Ethics and Anti-Bribery Policy. 
Global Ethics also conducts investigations of ethics mat-
ters and issues reported to ADP’s Ethics Helpline and 
supports the General Counsel in reporting to the Board of 
Directors and Audit Committee. 
Global compliance
The Global Compliance Team identifies and prioritizes 
compliance risks and determines whether such risks are 
effectively managed and/or mitigated. Global Compliance’s 
activities both reduce the likelihood of non-compliance with ADP Policies and applicable laws and contribute to 
ADP’s profitability and growth by supporting compliance 
as a centerpiece of our products and services. Ethics and compliance
General Counsel
(Chief Compliance Officer)
Overall responsibility for
the compliance programCorporate Compliance 
Committee
Executive committee  
support, oversight and 
guidance to the programAudit Committee
Global Compliance
Compliance CommitteesOversight of the compliance program
Day-to-day operational responsibility 
for the compliance program
Day-to-day management,  
implementation and reporting at 
business unit/function levelOversight and Structure
|  7
Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportIntegrated assurance and risk 
management
All assurance functions, which include global compliance 
and global ethics, take an integrated, comprehensive 
approach to risk management. It is based on a coordinated 
model of coverage between business line management, 
which has responsibility for the day-to-day control environ-
ment and the assurance functions. Our Board of Directors, 
acting directly and through its committees, is responsible 
for the oversight of ADP’s risk management activities. With 
board oversight, ADP has implemented programs and prac-
tices that are designed to encourage ethical behavior and 
manage and govern risk in order to protect the Company’s 
brand and reputation and grow shareholder value.
Facilitating our clients’ compliance
For examples of how we’ve designed compliance into 
our products and services, visit our Employment Tax and 
Compliance and Health Compliance Solution pages.
Ethics and compliance trainings
All ADP associates are trained annually on our Code of 
Business Conduct & Ethics, with 100 percent participation and completion in FY’19. In addition, we conduct special-
ized trainings specific to our associates’ roles. This training 
is supplemented by awareness programs and initiatives 
such as intranet articles, blogs, videos and other global 
compliance communications.
Public policy and government relations
As the largest single source of U.S. tax payments and 
employment tax reports, ADP has substantial expertise in 
tax administration and many other areas of employment- 
related administrative matters. We contribute to sound 
government policy by educating policymakers.
For example, to help mitigate the rise of income tax 
“refund theft,” ADP worked closely with the IRS to pio-
neer and pilot a new IRS Form W-2 “verification code,” 
which enables the IRS to independently validate W-2 data 
reported on individual income tax returns, and we advised 
congressional tax-writing staff as to the feasibility of ear-
lier submissions of employer W-2 reports. Similarly, ADP 
actively supports electronic filing programs to improve 
accuracy and efficiency of government tax collections.
Campaign contributions
ADP has a strict policy of “no financial support” for any political candidate, party or government office worldwide. 
ADP does not contribute funds to political campaigns of any sort and does not sponsor or maintain a Political 
Action Committee (PAC). Read more on our Political Contributions Policy.
|  8
Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportBy changing how people work, technology has introduced 
many new challenges to protecting privacy. Processing 
personal information of our Clients while staying on top of 
the mounting compliance challenges of privacy and data 
protection is one of our founding principles. 
As a service provider, we prioritize individuals’ privacy and 
data protection across our products and services. This is 
why thousands of multinational enterprises and millions of 
employees and workers worldwide entrust ADP with their 
most sensitive personal information.
As a company having to comply with privacy legislations 
covering the personal data we hold for our own employees 
and business contacts, we have embedded privacy princi-
ples within our processes. 
Data privacy throughout the  
organization
ADP has designed a governance structure for our privacy 
program that embeds data privacy in every level of our 
organization, as well as in every product we design. This 
includes:
•  Global Data Privacy team—Spearheads privacy efforts 
across our organization•  Privacy Leadership Council —Comprised of cross-  
disciplinary professionals including representatives  
from our business units
•  Privacy Stewards—Designated business leaders that 
take on management responsibilities for the controlled 
processing of your personal data within each ADP busi-
ness unit and function
Our Global Privacy Program is central to our approach to 
protecting our Clients’ data and revolves around the fol-
lowing privacy principles:
•  Privacy by Design 
Privacy principles are hardcoded within the ADP business 
model. We prioritize privacy and data protection at every 
stage as we design and develop new technology. 
•  Data Minimization and Access Control 
We collect and use only the minimum personal data nec-
essary to achieve the business purpose for which your 
data was collected. While ADP processes personal data, 
access to data is granted based on role and job function. 
•  Documented Data Processing Activities 
We perform data flow mapping and privacy assessments 
on our data processing activities, which enable us to hold 
an inventory of our processing activities.Data privacy 
|  9
Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report•  Standardized Record Information Management 
Across ADP, our record retention schedules govern the 
proper retention for every category of record that ADP 
maintains and when the records should be destroyed.
•  Incident Management Process 
Our incident response process is designed to ensure 
that any information security incidents are addressed 
promptly and effectively, in accordance with ADP secu-
rity policies, procedures and legal requirements.
•  Supervision of Third-Party Providers  
ADP Vendors must meet our data security and privacy 
standards. Our vendor assurance process enables ADP to 
assess its vendors prior to entering into a contract with 
them. Our vendors are contractually required to comply 
with ADP's privacy principles.
Binding corporate rules, approved by 
the EU
As of March 2018, ADP ranks among an elite group of 
companies worldwide to have gained regulators’ approval 
to implement BCRs as both a data processor (covering the 
processing of clients’ data) and data controller (covering 
the data of our employees and other business associates).
•  BCRs are policies developed internally among a group of 
companies that share a common parent
•  They provide a consistent set of rules on transferring the 
personal data of clients, employees and other individuals 
internationally, regardless of where such data is processed •  BCRs become legally binding once the EU Data Protection 
Authorities approve them (the DPAs are the regulators 
based in each of the EU’s Member States)
•  The EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) 
expressly recognizes BCRs as a way to safeguard the 
transfer of personal data out of the European Union (EU) 
•  Authorities regard BCRs as the best option for protecting 
individuals’ privacy rights in accordance with the GDPR 
requirements
Emerging privacy advancements  
and goals
Privacy changes are also underway in the United States. 
We are actively monitoring these changes and are ready to 
operationalize a U.S. privacy program based on the require-
ments of the California Consumer Privacy Act and other 
upcoming state-level privacy laws. 
Privacy and data protection trainings
As global privacy rules and legislation change, we make 
sure our associates are equipped with the tools and 
training they need to comply with relevant laws. ADP 
Associates and contingent workers are trained on the 
appropriate use and handling of personal data. We employ 
a variety of tools, techniques and programs to embed secu-
rity into our associates’ and contingent workers’ day-to-
day professional and personal lives.“ Implementing 
Binding Corporate 
Rules illustrates 
our commitment to 
protect personal 
data in accordance 
with the standards 
required in the EU, 
regardless of where 
the European data is 
processed, accessed 
or hosted.” 
— Carlos Rodriguez, President and 
Chief Executive Officer, ADP
|  10
Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportToday’s digital landscape means limitless possibilities, and 
also complex security risks and threats. At ADP, security 
is integral to our products, our business processes, and 
infrastructure. We use and deliver advanced services and 
technology for data security, data privacy, fraud preven-
tion, and crisis management.
ADP’s converged security organization has dedicated 
teams of security specialists who monitor for cyber secu-
rity threats, fraud attempts and business resilience inci-
dents 24/7/365 to pro-actively assist in addressing issues 
before they become incidents.
ADP provides the advantages of a global industry-leading 
advanced platform defense, intelligent detection, auto-
mated data protection, fraud defense, identity and access 
management, and so much more. By embedding multiple 
layers of protection into our products, business processes, 
and infrastructure, security remains at the forefront of 
our business.By collaborating with key government and industry part-
nerships, memberships and alliances, ADP uses threat-led 
intelligence to stay ahead of the risks.
Recognition for security excellence
We’ve been recognized with some of the top awards in our 
industries. Awards received at ADP include:
•  “Security Magazine” 2018, Security 500 (ranked #5 in 
the Information Technology category)
•  2020 CSO50 Award WinnerGlobal security
When you’re passionate about  
what you do, people notice
ADP’s proactive and comprehensive security 
program is award-winning—from our leadership 
to our technology and everything in between.
Data center  
certifications
•  ISO 9001: Quality 
Management—ensures 
we provide consistent 
quality and meet the 
needs of customers and 
other stakeholders
•  ISO 27001: Information 
Security Management—
includes legal, physical, 
and technical controls; 
ensures we follow ADP’s 
security policies, confi-
dentiality, availability 
and integrity of data24/7/365 global 
protection and 
advanced threat 
monitoring via our 
multiple, state-of- 
the-art Critical 
Incident Response 
Centers, which are 
located around  
the globe.
|  11
Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportInnovation
At ADP, we design for people. By 
working at the forefront of our 
clients’ needs, we anticipate trends 
and create solutions together. It’s a 
challenge we love.
|  12
Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportAt ADP, innovation is not just about our products and 
services, but also about how we deliver them to the client. 
Being innovative is part of our DNA. We gave birth to the 
payroll outsourcing industry and were first-to-market with 
mobile apps, putting our value in the palm of our clients’ 
hands, making their daily work easier. Our innovation 
strategy is simple: We innovate by anticipating the future 
of work, the future of HCM and the future of pay in order 
to meet the evolving and unique needs of our clients and 
their workers. Our investments in innovation have grown by double 
digits over the last several years, and the results speak 
for themselves. We’ve built Innovation Labs that host 
clients, listen to their needs and build the interfaces that 
help them succeed. Our Research Institute is expanding 
our understanding of how the modern-day workplace is 
evolving, publishing world-class studies and reports. With 
innovation, we’re transforming how great work is done.ADP’s innovation strategy
Our innovation 
strategy is simple:
We innovate by 
anticipating the 
future of work, the 
future of HCM and 
the future of pay in 
order to meet the 
evolving and unique 
needs of our clients 
and their workers.
|  13
Governance CEO Message Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report InnovationADP understands the trends driving the evolving work-
place, allowing us to build adaptive tools that help our 
clients work better. Here’s a look at key trends and how 
ADP is addressing them.
Evolution of work
The growth of the gig economy and the emergence of agile 
organizations are major factors in the changing workplace.
•  Our WorkMarket product helps our clients hire, organize 
and pay freelancers strategically and efficiently, and 
manages them through an entire project lifecycle. 
Evolution of pay
80 percent of employees prefer direct deposit and real-
time pay. In addition, increasing numbers of workers would 
like to choose how often they get paid. Understanding 
preferences like these is critical to attracting and keeping 
key employees. 
Through our products and services, we have insight into 
how people get paid, and how they spend. ADP has a unique 
ability to deliver pay and financial wellness solutions to end 
users, putting us at the forefront of the evolution of pay.•  Global Cash Card is an industry-leading HCM and digital 
payment platform that enables person-centric, on-demand 
pay vs. loans against future earnings.
•  Wisely is our new financial wellness app that empowers 
workers to gain control of their financial life.
Evolution of HR
While the world of human resources is becoming more ana-
lytical and data driven, companies are increasing focus on 
talent development and employee engagement. 
•  DataCloud is a powerful data analysis tool that allows 
companies to leverage the world’s richest, most accurate 
dataset: anonymized data from 30 million workers in more 
than 90,000 organizations across the United States. For 
instance, companies can benchmark data to find the most 
qualified candidates and develop a competitive compen-
sation package in line with industry standards.Current trends driving our innovation
80%
Percentage of U.S. 
employees prefer  
direct deposit and  
real-time pay
|  14
Governance CEO Message Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report InnovationEvolution of business
While the workforce continues to globalize, organizations 
are faced with tightening labor markets and growing regu-
latory pressures.
•  Celergo was strategically acquired by ADP in 2018.  
ADP Celergo offers managed payroll services through a 
platform to simplify and help ensure accurate sourcing, 
managing, and delivery of payroll services for mid-sized 
organizations across multiple countries.
•  ADP GlobalView helps to process payroll on time and 
accurately for large enterprise global workforces. Multi-
country organizations get the benefit of local experts 
who know the language while meeting country-specific 
compliance rules.
Evolution of tech
ADP research shows that today’s global companies use 
more than 30 applications or vendors to fulfill their HCM 
needs. At the same time, we are witnessing the rise of 
artificial intelligence (AI) across enterprises.•  ADP Marketplace currently hosts 280+ apps that help 
clients automate their HR processes.
•  Large volumes of HCM transactions provide ample oppor-
tunities for automation, and ADP is pioneering the field 
of AI robotics and machine learning for HCM. We are 
already using AI-driven machine learning in a variety of 
use-cases across the entire client lifecycle, while carefully 
researching and testing further applications.
StandOut: Accelerating Performance 
Through Engagement
Employee engagement is increasingly seen as an essential 
element of a highly productive, agile organization of the 
future. To support this, we have implemented StandOut,  
an employee engagement and performance management 
tool that makes it easier for team leaders to understand 
and unlock the full potential of their team members’ 
strengths. This platform recognizes that today’s employ-
ees often work beyond their departments, in dynamic, 
cross-functional and self-forming teams while also facili-
tating coaching and team leadership. See our accelerating 
performance section for more details.
CLIENT EXPERIENCE EMPLOYEE EXPERIENCE SECURITY
Service
Support
ImplementationExecutive & Manager Insights
Conversational User Interface
Financial WellnessFraud Prevention
Identity Prevention
|  15
Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportBy focusing on solutions for emerging trends, ADP is also 
addressing some of the most pressing issues facing the 
world today. Thanks to our always designing for people 
approach, we have a unique opportunity to influence the 
experience and well-being of our clients’ employees. Our 
products help organizations measure and improve their HR 
performance, particularly related to diversity and engage-
ment. We also address environmental aspects of business 
operations where possible. As of December 2018, 49 per-
cent of ADP’s Small Business Solutions clients are enrolled 
in paperless programs, up from 5 percent in 2014. As we 
further our investments in innovation, we are very excited 
to continue solving emerging sustainability challenges.
All of our HR products help our clients become more inclu-
sive by analyzing their demographics. Some features are 
particularly noteworthy:
•  Vantage, our all-in-one solution for strategic human cap-
ital management, now features a visual search capability 
that helps companies reduce unconscious bias in the hiring 
and promotion process. Users can perform a blind resume 
search, prioritizing the best-fit candidates based purely 
on skill-fit for the role, while hiding name, geography, 
school or other characteristics. •  Pay Equity Explorer uncovers inequitable payment 
for the same job. Its unique approach allows the user to 
understand the data behind such discrepancies, whether 
there are appropriate reasons and if corrective action 
should be taken. 
•  Our Next Gen HCM solution was designed to embrace 
a more fluid, team based structure. By providing teams 
access to AI-driven insights, we empower them to make 
data-driven decisions. Leaders can meet the unique 
needs of their organization and help drive performance. 
Global organizations can curate HR and employee expe-
riences by selecting apps and capabilities from ADP and 
third parties without sacrificing data integration, secu-
rity, or scalability. With next-gen HCM’s cloud-native, 
low-code technology platform, organizations can adapt, 
extend, and scale their solution easily and cost-effec-
tively to support changes in their business strategy.Facilitating our clients’ sustainability performance
49%
Percentage of ADP  
Small Business Solutions  
clients enrolled in our 
paperless programs.
|  16
Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report•  Next Gen Pay is ADP’s next generation Global Payroll 
platform that has been built to support the needs of our 
clients all over the world. Given the trends in the market 
around the evolution of work and pay, it provides clients 
with a tool that supports their future needs, due to its 
flexible, scalable and configurable platform. ADP Next Gen 
Pay has been built natively in the Public Cloud leveraging 
the latest technologies, including Artificial Intelligence 
(AI) and Machine Learning (ML) to improve the quality of 
our services and implementation times. Its person-centric 
approach allows workers of any type to be paid as soon 
as they have earned their wages, even at the end of their 
journey, in a fully compliant manner. •   Next Gen Tax Engine is the backbone of our tax com -
pliance solutions. With greater automation and real-time 
information, the engine’s built-in protections help with 
compliance, exposing where errors might exist and reduc-
ing opportunities for tax agency notices to occur. It was 
designed for scale, handling both high- and low-value 
transactions, and offering more client choice in payment 
settlement options.
|  17
Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportAssociates
Our long-term business success is 
closely linked to our commitment to 
creating an environment in which 
our associates thrive. We believe in 
a competitive, inclusive and diverse 
workforce that represents the 
communities we serve. This is vital 
in building a company where our 
employees feel valued, welcome, and 
can achieve their full potential. 
Learn more about Life at ADP.
|  18
Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportOur diversity and inclusion philosophy is simple: We cul-
tivate a culture that embraces all forms of gender, race, 
ethnicity, age, sexual identity and orientation, veteran 
status and ability. We embrace this philosophy at all 
levels of our Company, from entry level to management 
and executive positions. We believe an engaged, inclusive 
and diverse workforce attracts top talent, galvanizes our 
creativity, drives innovation and leads to better corporate 
performance. Our diversity efforts are simply the right 
thing to do ethically and economically. 
To learn more, please visit our website.Global workforce demographics
Our tens of thousands of ADP associates reflect the cul-
tural diversity of the markets we serve. In 2018, women 
represented 53 percent of ADP’s global workforce, our 
minority female workforce is growing, and more than 40 
percent of our managers are women.Diversity and Inclusion
“ The business case 
for diversity is about 
ensuring that all 
employees have 
the opportunity to 
contribute, grow 
and thrive, because 
the population we 
serve and those 
who consume ADP 
products are diverse.” 
— Rita Mitjans, ADP’s Chief 
Diversity, Inclusion and  
CSR Officer RetiredDec. 201754%
Dec. 201654%
Dec. 201853%60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%
Dec. 201736%
Dec. 201635%
Dec. 201837%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%Female Workforce Demographics (Global) Minority Workforce Demographics* (U.S. only)
* Minority includes the following EEOC categories (U.S. Only):  
Black/African American, Hispanic, Asian, American Indian, Native Hawaiian
|  19
Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report2018 Female Demographics (Global) 2018 Generation Demographics*
2018 Minority Demographics* (U.S. only)Management41% 41%54%53%
Executiv e32% 32%60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%
Workforce
Dec. 2017 Dec. 201860%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%
Gen X33%31%
Bab y Boomer9%13%53%57%
Millennial1% 3%
Gen Z
Dec. 2017 Dec. 2018
Management25%27%36%37%
Executiv e21%
19%40%
30%
20%
10%
0%
Workforce
Dec. 2017 Dec. 2018
* Minority includes the following EEOC categories (U.S. Only):  
Black/African American, Hispanic, Asian, American Indian, Native Hawaiian,  
Two or More Races* Baby Boomer 1946-1964, Generation X 1965-1979, Millennial 1980-1995, 
Generation Z  1996-present
|  20
Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportWomen and minorities in  
executive roles
The business case for workplace diversity is simple:  
Through establishing a culture of inclusion, businesses 
gain both intrinsic rewards and improved results.
Therefore, we have set directional targets that support our  
business objectives and allow us to measure progress. In 
2016, we issued three-year targets for female (33 percent)  
and minority (20 percent) representation in executive 
positions. As of December 2018, we’ve nearly reached 
the target for women (32 percent) and exceeded our  
target for minorities (21 percent).
ADP is one of the most-admired companies in the market-
place for the advancement of senior female executives. 
While we recognize that there is more ground to cover, we 
also know that it gets harder to make progress the better 
you do. It is with pride and confidence that we announce 
our new targets for executive roles for 2019 to 2022:
35%
Female representationWorkforce initiatives
Fair and equal hiring practices
Gender Decoder
ADP takes great care to ensure we do not discriminate 
against anyone in hiring. In 2018, we deployed Gender 
Decoder, software that enables us to use gender-neutral 
language and pronouns for job descriptions. We have 
already updated the descriptions for our most commonly 
hired positions and will continue to update all others.
Diverse slates and panels
For our leadership positions, director-level and above, we 
now require that our recruiters provide a diverse slate of 
candidates. We also ensure that diverse interview panels 
are evaluating the qualifications of our candidates to mini-
mize unconscious bias in the interview process. 
To help fill the recruiting pipeline with culturally diverse 
candidates, ADP continues to build and renew partnerships 
with Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU), 
Hispanic Serving Institutions, and other diverse campuses 
around the country.Approximately 45 
percent of college 
interns hired are 
diverse. 22%
Minority representation
|  21
Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportDoing our part to support “pay equity”
On average, women in the United States collectively earn 
only 83 percent of what men earn. Lower levels of pay 
for women appear universally, regardless of education, 
experience, industry, and profession. ADP’s research sug-
gests that incentive pay, especially at time of hire, is a key 
contributor to this gender pay gap. This may be due to soci-
etal norms/expectations, unconscious (or conscious) bias 
and employer practices such as using prior salary history 
to determine compensation. These factors can uninten-
tionally prolong the impact of gender discrimination that 
began years earlier with prior employers. 
In July 2018, ADP announced a proactive stance to pay 
equity and is no longer asking candidates for prior pay his-
tory anywhere in the U.S., not just where legislation to ban 
salary history has been enacted. We are also working with 
our colleagues outside the U.S. to examine the feasibility 
of expanding this practice globally.
Promoting multicultural women
ADP is especially proud of our programs and policies that 
enable us to successfully recruit, retain and profession-
ally advance multicultural women. We sponsor Cultivate, 
ADP’s African American and Black Business Resource 
Group, offer a Multicultural Leadership Development 
Program designed to advance minority talent and host  
the annual Black Enterprise Women of Power Summit.LGBTQ inclusion
All-inclusive benefits
With the passage of the marriage equality act, companies 
started giving benefits to married LGBTQ couples. At ADP, 
we go further. Our benefits, in accordance with local laws, 
are all-inclusive and awarded to any domestic partner—a 
major milestone development in 2018.
Human Rights Campaign
In 2018, for the ninth consecutive year, ADP received a 
100 percent rating on the Human Rights Campaign (HRC) 
Corporate Equality Index (CEI), which annually rates large 
U.S. employers based on their policies and practices per-
taining to LGBTQ employees. 
In addition, ADP also signed the Corporate Equality Pledge, 
an initiative by the HRC to help pass the Equality Act, 
which would provide the same rights and basic protections 
to LGBTQ people as other protected groups under the law. 
We proudly hire veterans
We highly value the specific skillsets veterans bring to the 
table and are eager to offer them fulfilling career oppor-
tunities. To learn more about how we make veterans feel 
welcome, and awards we have received for these efforts, 
please visit our veterans website.
|  22
Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportBusiness resource groups
Our business resource groups (BRGs) are voluntary groups 
of associates that help shape our culture and support key 
business initiatives. They are instrumental in allowing us 
to make everyone feel welcome and included. They also 
increase awareness, advance business objectives and  
support the recruitment and professional development  
of multicultural groups.
From 2013 to 2019, membership in the BRGs has grown 
six-fold from about 2,000 members to more than 13,000 
as of June 2019. Engagement measures of BRG members 
is also higher than non-members, indicating the important 
role that these organizations play in our associates’ lives. 
Diversity and inclusion trainings
To make sure new associates are connected to our culture 
of inclusion and diversity from the start, we introduce our 
diversity initiatives and CSR program during our onboard-
ing sessions. Diversity and Inclusion training is also a core 
component of our leadership development program.
Formal training for our associates and leadership includes:
• Anti-harassment 
• Patterns of Unconscious Bias in Talent Management
• Advancing Inclusion and Overcoming Bias 
Our business resource groups are instrumental in edu-
cating their colleagues as well. In 2018, our Pride group 
launched a series of 10 LGBTQ educational videos about 
workplace related topics.Active BRGs in 2018 included:
•  Thrive (for associates with visible and invisible dis-
abilities, added in 2018)
• Adelante (Hispanic)
• Elevate (Asian)
• Cultivate (Black/African-American)
• PRIDE (LGBTQ)
• Military Strong (Military)
• Inspire (Innovation)
• Generations (Multigenerational)
• iWIN (International Women’s Inclusion Network)
• WiSL (Women in Sales Leadership)
• Empower (Women in Technology)
• Women in Leadership (Executive Women)
|  23
Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportIn 2018, ADP 
Associates in the 
U.S. had an average 
tenure of 7 years, well 
above the U.S. Bureau 
of Labor Statistics 
average of 4.2 years.At ADP, we are constantly building an environment where 
all our associates contribute to our success and live their 
best life. We offer a wide range of benefits, flexible work 
options and health and wellness programs, and our commit-
ment to a diverse and inclusive workforce helps attract the 
great talent we seek.
Benefits
Our associates enjoy a competitive benefits package. 
While exact benefits vary by employee and region, they  
typically include health care coverage, retirement programs  
with Company matching contributions, free wellness ser-
vices, tuition reimbursement and more. We particularly 
emphasize benefits that support our associates’ individual 
and family needs (parental leave, adoption/fertility ben-
efits and programs to support caregivers). Benefits we 
enhanced in 2018 include:Flexible work options
ADP empowers its associates to create a solid work-life 
balance. We provide a comprehensive set of programs, 
practices, activities and resources to help associates 
choose productive and flexible work management solu-
tions that are best for them, ADP and our clients. This 
includes flexible scheduling, flexible locations and 
in-house resources such as day care centers. 
ADP was again recognized in 2018 as one of the Top 
100 Companies for remote, part-time and flexible jobs by 
Flexjobs.com. To see all of our awards and recognitions, 
please visit our website.Talent recruitment and retention
PAID PARENTAL LEAVE CHILDCARE LOAN REPA YMENT EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE
In addition to 6 weeks of paid 
maternity leave, paid parental 
leave extended from 2 to 4 
weeks in the U.S.Back-up childcare 
and parental careA student loan 
repayment program An employee  
assistance program 
in France
For a more comprehensive list of our benefits, please visit Life at ADP.
|  24
Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportSafety, health and wellness
ADP has a long tradition of promoting health, wellness  
and safety within our culture and embracing it as part  
of our corporate identity. We are committed to designing  
and implementing programs that help associates pursue  
a healthy lifestyle and reduce absenteeism and lost time 
due to injuries.
Our health and safety efforts include: 
•  a Company-wide health and safety manual and website 
•  safety education and training offered on our risk manage-
ment website
•  regular committee reviews of health and safety 
procedures 
•  a wellness program that allows associates to earn points 
and rewards for completing various wellness activitiesIn 2018, we added two new features to our ADP medical 
plans. We introduced Livongo, a diabetic management 
program, and integrated RxSavings Solution, a program 
designed to save associates’ money on their prescription 
medications. 
Wellness centers
We began offering onsite health centers in 1992 and have 
since expanded to 12 sites across the U.S. Associates 
appreciate and value this benefit, with more than 70 per-
cent capitalizing on their availability. Of survey respon-
dents, there was an over 95 percent satisfaction rating. 
Wellness centers are also available in some countries out-
side of the U.S.
95+%
Satisfaction rating  
at U.S. Wellness 
Centers
|  25
Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportThe ability to offer insightful expertise is one of our core 
values. Developing the skills and knowledge of our employ-
ees not only benefits the Company and our associates, it 
provides unmatched value for our clients. 
Trainings
To ensure that our associates are ready for now and tomor-
row, we invest heavily in trainings. These include:
•  Basic training: The ADP HCM Basic Certificate allows 
our associates to gain the knowledge and skills necessary 
to establish our value proposition, address clients’ HCM 
issues and deliver a consultative approach. 
•  Customer experience: Our Telephone Excellence training 
uses industry-leading best practices such as emotional 
intelligence training, which enables our associates to cre-
ate engaged and consistent customer experiences.
•  Data Privacy and compliance: In 2018, we augmented 
our compliance learning to proactively meet new require-
ments in the EU and global marketplace. We added course 
content to reinforce new data privacy and security mea-
sures and enhanced our code-of-conduct course.
•  Diversity and inclusion: We provide training at every 
stage of our associates’ careers, from entry-level to lead-
ership positions.Other key educational opportunities include trainings 
on remedial skills, safety, sales, IT skills and more. These 
courses are implemented through innovative presenta-
tion methods including in-person, peer-facilitated and 
virtual classroom modalities. Measures are taken pre- and 
post-learning to help us identify improvements, learning 
and return on investment. 
Career development 
We recognize that career growth and development are top 
engagement drivers for our associates. Therefore, we pro-
vide easy access to on-site and online world-class training 
and professional development programs for associates to 
increase productivity and personal satisfaction. Career 
development opportunities include:
• Ongoing skill-building programs 
• Leadership development programs 
• Development and cross–business unit exposure
•  Knowledge Pay programs offering financial incentives for 
specific certifications
• Leadership roles in Business Resource GroupsTraining and development
During 2018,  
72 percent of 
ADP associates 
participated in 
instructor lead 
training.
|  26
Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportSkill Builders is part of our continuous learning program. 
Led by high-performing ADP employees, it helps our 
associates round out their personal brand, and enables 
networking and shared experiences across business units. 
Active topics include emotional intelligence, Managers’ 
Worst Nightmares and Español Para Ti. 
ADP’s DriveY ourCareer program allows associates to 
include mobility and career preferences as part of their 
career profile. In turn, managers use this information to 
have productive discussions with associates about their 
career growth. We also created Centers of Excellence 
to enable synergies between business units and expand 
career opportunities in several local regions.
Accelerating Performance
We encourage our team leaders to give frequent attention 
and guidance to their team members rather than simply 
providing occasional “feedback,” which can come across 
as negative or demotivating. Since 2018, team leaders 
receive specific coaching tips from StandOut, our new 
employee engagement tool, based on the tool’s assess-
ment of each team member.
StandOut is also changing annual performance reviews 
at ADP. Instead of one annual meeting, we hold quarterly 
debrief conversations, informed by regular short perfor-
mance assessments that allow managers to quickly evalu-
ate their team members’ performance.Co-ops and internships
We recruit and evaluate students from 70+ colleges and 
national partners for full-time positions. We offer both 
co-op and internship opportunities that give them industry 
exposure and a chance to learn about our Company culture 
and operations.
Mentorship programs
These relationships provide invaluable guidance for new 
hires and help them unlock their full potential within the 
Company. We encourage new employees to find a mentor 
early in their career at ADP and support experienced asso-
ciates in offering mentorships. Business Resource Groups 
are a great resource for establishing mentor connections.
myVoice
Following the transition of our employee engagement 
measurement to StandOut, ADP initiated an annual culture 
survey, myVoice, which provides associates an opportunity 
to share their opinions on important topics, including ethics, 
social responsibility, innovation and leadership, among  
others. Eighty-one percent of our associates participated in 
the survey. Overall, ADP's culture ranked 75 percent favor-
able with ethics and social responsibility ranking highest.
|  27
Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportAwards and recognition
World’s Most Admired Companies (2006–2019) 
Fortune Magazine
NAFE Top Companies for Executive Women (2018) 
Working Mother® Magazine 
Bloomberg Gender Equality Index (2018–2019) 
Bloomberg
100% Corporate Equality Index Rating (2010–2019)  
Recognizing ADP as a best place for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual 
and Transgender (LGBT) employees to work 
Human Rights Campaign Foundation
America’s Best Employers for Diversity (2018–2019) 
Forbes Magazine 
Top 100 Innovators in Diversity & Inclusion (2018) 
Mogul 
Best Places to Work in Information Technology  
(2010–2017) 
Computerworld® MagazineBest Companies for Multicultural Women (2016–2019) 
Working Mother® Magazine 
Top 50 Companies for Diversity (2016–2019)  
DiversityInc® Magazine 
Corporate Inclusion Index (2016–2018) 
Hispanic Association on Corporate Responsibility 
(HACR) 
100 Best Companies (2016, 2018–2019) 
Working Mother® Magazine
Training Top 125 (Top Companies for Training, 2011–2019) 
Training Magazine
Top 100 Companies for remote, part-time and flexible jobs  
(2018)  
flexjobs.com
Top 10 Companies for Working Mothers India (2018) 
Working Mother® Magazine and AVTAR
For more information about awards and recognition, visit our website.
|  28
Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportCommunity
Responsibility to the world around 
us is at the heart of our business. 
We believe that our Company is 
only as strong as the communities 
in which we operate. By elevating 
our communities, we support critical 
causes and provide a foundation for 
our business to continue thriving. 
|  29
Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportThrough our technology expertise, volunteerism, charitable 
giving, and a growing commitment to diverse suppliers, 
ADP is committed to giving back to communities where we 
live, work and do business.
ADP Foundation
The ADP Foundation is the heart of our corporate social 
responsibility (CSR) initiatives. It amplifies the impact of 
associate giving to causes that align with our values and 
corporate social responsibility focus areas. Services provided by the Foundation include: 
•  Oversight of ADP Cares, our global associate  
hardship fund
•  Donation processing and matching program
•  Review/approval of grant requests from charitable  
organizations
•  Determination of eligible charitable organizations  
and volunteer options
•  Fundraising for eligible charitable organizationsPhilanthropy and volunteering
In 2018, the ADP 
foundation matched 
$4.5M of associate 
charitable donations, 
an increase of 11% 
compared to 2017.
ADP Foundation Contribution Allocation
Management25%27%36%37%
Executiv e21%
19%40%
30%
20%
10%
0%
Workforce
2017 20182017 2018Workplace Giving/Matching
Community Relations
Cultural
Diversity Initiatives
College/Education
Healthcare
Social Services
Other
|  30
Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportSupporting education and  
employability
We believe that improving employability is core to sus-
taining our business. By helping people around the world 
access the skills and opportunities they need to succeed, 
we are not only building a stronger foundation for our 
Company, but also for society and the world economy.
We provide 50 scholarships annually for college-bound 
children of ADP associates, through the Henry Taub 
Scholarship Program. Since the inception of the program, 
The ADP Foundation has awarded more than $5 million. In 
addition, we also offer scholarships to select colleges and 
universities that target academically strong minority stu-
dents with financial need. The ADP Foundation provided 
more than $1.5 Million for education-based grants and 
scholarships during the 2017–2018 academic year.
Advancing women in STEM
Women are significantly under-represented in the 
high-paying field of science, technology, engineering 
and math (STEM). ADP is doing its part to address this discrepancy by providing scholarships, internships, men-
toring and professional development opportunities to 
empower women pursuing STEM careers. ADP partners 
with organizations like AnitaB.org, Fairygodboss, Women 
in Technology and Catalyst to help us attract qualified 
women to STEM jobs and other roles. We also support Girls 
Who Code, an organization that introduces STEM educa-
tion early in the career pipeline. 
Beginning in 2018, the ADP Foundation initiated addi-
tional annual scholarships totaling $200,000 for students 
with specialties in STEM. 
MIDAS: Making an impactful difference at school 
Since being established in 2008 by ADP India, MIDAS has 
expanded from 5 schools to its current partnership with the 
Pratham Educational Foundation, supporting 20 schools.   
MIDAS remodels and transforms schools in India, creating 
early childhood education programs, primary and upper liter-
acy classes and computer courses. MIDAS has impacted over 
20,000 students, 150 of them with special needs. The pro-
gram has been brought to 65 schools across 80 communities 
in Hyderabad and Pune. 
Beginning in 2018, the ADP Foundation initiated additional 
annual scholarships totaling $200,000 for students with 
specialties in STEM.$1.5M+
Cumulative value of
ADP scholarships 
2017–2018
|  31
Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportHumanitarian initiatives
We believe that every person deserves a safe, satisfied 
and fulfilling life, and that starts with meeting basic 
needs. ADP is proud to actively address the issue of hun-
ger around the world.
The ADP Foundation has donated more than $2.5 million to 
Feeding America’s network of food banks throughout the 
U.S. since 2008. In 2018, we reached a major milestone in 
our support of Rise Against Hunger. ADP associates have 
now packed over one million meals for impoverished people 
in Cambodia, Haiti, El Salvador, the Philippines, Uganda, 
Vietnam and Zambia. In 2018 alone, 1,500 ADP associates 
helped package more than 300,000 meals. 
The ADP Foundation and our associates also give time and 
money to Habitat for Humanity, a long-standing partner 
since 2003. In 2018, ADP donated $175,000 and helped 
build homes alongside the future homeowners.Employee giving
ADP’s myGiving online tool allows associates to donate 
to their choice of thousands of charitable organizations. 
ADP associates in the U.S. can also participate in our 
Matching Gift Program, in which donations to eligible 
nonprofit organizations are matched up to $5,000 
per associate per calendar year. Executive Committee 
members are eligible to up to a $20,000 match, while 
executive level leaders are matched up to $10,000 for 
their donations. In 2018, associate donations, including 
matches, totaled $7.3 million, which represents a 22 per-
cent increase over the last two years.
In 2018 alone, 1,500 ADP associates helped package more than 
300,000 meals. $2.5M+
Donated to Feeding 
America since 2008.
|  32
Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportEmployee volunteering
Our associates report that they feel more engaged and  
purposeful when they can use their skills to benefit causes 
they care about. So, we do our best to encourage and 
reward their work as active citizens and foster their con-
tributions to their communities. 
In 2018, our associates around the world completed more 
than 100 volunteer initiatives during our global Month of 
Caring in May. Over 12,000 associates volunteered 24,000 
hours and donated over $530,000 to more than 1,200 
charitable organizations. In the U.S., we also have a Volunteer Paid Time Off Program 
that gives associates eight hours of paid time off per year 
to engage in community service during a regular workday. 
In 2018, associates volunteered 52,500 hours, a 16 per-
cent increase compared to 2017.
Y ear over Y ear Volunteer Hours
20175,00010,00015,00020,000
025,00030,000
201817,00024,000In 2018, associates 
volunteered 52,500 
hours, a 16 percent 
increase compared  
to 2017.
|  33
Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report84%
Diverse spend 
increase from 
2015 to 201822%
Supplier  
diversity  
spend in 2018Supplier diversity
We recognize that creating partnerships with diverse sup-
pliers, including women, veterans and the LGBTQ commu-
nity, is a powerful business advantage and an opportunity 
to recognize the world we want to live in.
Making progress 
ADP’s Supplier Diversity Program had a successful year in 
2018. Our achievements included:
•  In 2018, diverse spend was 22 percent of procurement 
spend, an increase of 2 percent from 2017.
•  84 percent diverse spend increase from 2015 to 2018
•  In 2018, overall diverse spend increased 6 percent year  
over year.
•  2018 Tier 2 spend increased by 31 percent, compared  
to 2017.Many diverse businesses are small businesses—some of 
which are also ADP clients. Supplier mentorship at ADP 
features one-on-one work, group discussions and summits 
to help new and existing suppliers improve their ability to 
do business with a large corporation.
Our supplier diversity goals
We are pleased with the progress we’ve made and want to 
keep moving the needle. Our goals for 2020 are:
• Increase diverse supplier spend by 10 percent
• Onboard up to 10 new diverse suppliers
• Increase business with LGBTQ suppliers
Supplier Diversity Spend
Fiscal Y ear over Y ear (U.S. Only)
2015$112.7$61.1$173.8Spend in Millions
2016$167.4$69.2$236.6
2017$221.7$80.0$301.7
2018$214.2$105.0$319.3
Tier 1—dir ect spend  
with div erse supplier s.Tier 2—indir ect spend  
with dive rse supplier s. 050100150200250300350 $350
$300
$250
$200
$150
$100
$50
$0Executiv e19%
2017 2018
|  34
Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportFollowing our mission to support the communities where 
we live and work, ADP is committed to making meaningful 
contributions to leading charitable organizations. In partic-
ular, our global offices and teams have found unique ways 
to contribute to their local communities. We’d like to high-
light some of these initiatives.
Netherlands 
At ADP Netherlands, we’re always looking for ways to help 
our community. We actively support charities and encourage 
individual, associate-driven philanthropy through various 
initiatives and programs.
Donate a Day 
Donate a Day was developed by ADP Netherlands in 
cooperation with UNICEF in 2016 in response to the 93 
million vacation days that go unused annually. This initia-
tive encourages employers to allow employees to donate 
the value of a vacation day to a cause of their choice. With only one donated day, UNICEF can provide eleven 
children clean drinking water for a year, save two children 
from malnutrition, or provide 140 vaccines. In 2018, ADP 
Netherlands raised $165,000 in partnership with four of 
our clients for UNICEF. 
Other examples of our 2018 initiatives included: 
•  Making new parent kits for struggling parents with 
Stichting Babyspullen, and organizing a fundraiser for 
baby garments to amplify our impact.Elevating communities around the world
In 2018, ADP 
Netherlands 
raised $165,000 in 
partnership with  
four of our clients  
for UNICEF. 
|  35
Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportIndia
ADP India has a comprehensive CSR program called Tarang 
(a wave). With the motto of working “Together for a Better 
Tomorrow,” Tarang aims to create a wave of positive change 
in society. We believe that our communities will develop 
by empowering women, and providing quality education 
and employment skills to children.
In 2018 approximately 5,600 associates spent more than 
6,500 hours helping more than 45,000 individuals and 
supporting 19 different charity organizations. Our efforts 
involved: 
•  Helping students through our Making an Impactful 
Difference at School program, which gained ADP recog-
nition as the Best Company for Educational Initiatives in 
2018 by Hyderabad Software Enterprises Association.
•  Installing two safe water ATMs in Hyderabad, benefitting 
around 8,000 people.
•  Hosting a blood donation drive, where 93 associates gave 
enough blood to save 279 lives. •  Sponsoring “Jog for a Cause” to fundraise for the United 
Way health charity. 
•  Rebuilding orphanages in the state of Kerala, which was 
hit with its deadliest flood in almost a century, helping 
over 400 children rebuild their lives. 
•  Our Jeevika initiative provides financial independence to 
women from some of the most impoverished communities 
of Hyderabad and Pune by offering training in vocational 
skills such as stitching, sewing and henna art. Over the 
last year, approximately 140 women have been trained at 
these centers.
|  36
Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportSpain
Throughout the year, our team in Spain worked hard to 
assist those in need through volunteering and fundraisers. 
For example, we helped by: 
•  Hosting multiple fundraisers for the Spanish Association 
Against Cancer, raising almost $2,500. Our Games Against  
Cancer event was recognized as the “Best Social Presence” 
action in 2018.
•  Teaming up with Red Cross for our Win as One charity 
event, where we invited all our associates to prepare  
and donate 150 necessity packs for at-risk children  
and families. 
•  Supporting 50 employees in planting 54 trees, setting 
up a specialized irrigation system and installing 20 shel-
ters for bats in a nature reserve as part of our Carbon 
Emission Offset project. 
Canada 
Our efforts in Canada supported diversity and inclusion, 
with programs designed for all people in the community. In 
2018, we upheld this mission by:  
•  Supporting Chez Doris, a day shelter that provides refuge 
for women.
•  Organizing and hosting a fundraiser for Y outh Without 
Shelter’s breakfast program, which gave students the 
nutrients they need to thrive.
•  Volunteering at Moisson Montreal, a charitable organiza-
tion that provides food donations to those in need.•  Giving lessons, instruction and mentorship to local stu-
dents in May and June through Junior Achievement,  
the largest youth business education organization in  
the country.
•  Supporting Fondation du Dr. Julien, a foundation ded-
icated to ensuring vulnerable children have access to 
social pediatric care, which improves their health and 
helps them develop their full potential. 
France 
Our charitable efforts in France focused on empowering 
people, now and into the future. Through volunteering and 
donations, we fostered an inclusive workforce internally 
and externally, prepared the next generation of workers, 
and helped our vulnerable populations. We accomplished 
this by: 
•  Hosting a charity race across France that raised $36,000 
for children battling cancer.
•  Organizing and hosting an “Olympic Games” fundraiser 
for multiple organizations that help France’s youth.
•  Connecting impoverished students with more than 30 
working mentors through our Y outh Program Challenge.
•  Hosting a charity sale to raise funds for Children of 
Mekong, an organization focused on helping the children 
of Southeast Asia. 
|  37
Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportCzech Republic 
From donations to blood drives, our Czech offices work 
hard to elevate their communities. In 2018, our major phil-
anthropic efforts included: 
•  Donating time and money to the House of Three Wishes, 
a local organization that supports children in need.
•  Hosting a charity run for both Svetluska, a blind commu-
nity, and TeriBear, an organization helping disadvantaged 
children.
•  Organizing a biannual blood drive through local hospitals, 
so our associates could donate from the office.
•  Collecting meal vouchers for Open Heart, an organization 
dedicated to supporting mothers in need. 
Great Britain 
In 2018 at ADP GBR, we organized 63 events, had 153 
associates volunteer 894 hours, and donated over $45,000 
to charities. We were recognized for our efforts, receiv-
ing the Business Contribution to the Community Award  
for 2018, given by the Runnymede Council. Our time  
was spent: 
•  Volunteering to help children with disabilities and their 
families at the White Lodge Center. 
•  Promoting our “Move in May” event to fundraise for chil-
dren fighting cancer.•  Raising awareness and funds for the homeless.
•  Helping maintain the grounds at St. Peter’s Hospital and 
the National Trust. 
Tunisia 
At ADP Tunisia, we work hard to help those less fortunate 
or in difficult situations by providing critical resources. 
From students in school to hospital patients, we helped 
others in 2018 by: 
•  Providing blackboards to schools in disadvantaged 
regions.
•  Organizing and hosting a Blood Donation Day, where 30 
of our associates stepped up and donated.
•  Organizing a food collection for Ramadan Basket, a 
charity that supports vulnerable families during the holy 
month of Ramadan, enabling us to feed 42 families for  
a month.
•  Collecting warm clothes and blankets during our Warm 
Winter Action, allowing us to provide winter appropriate 
attire to 21 families. 
In 2018 at ADP 
GBR, we organized 
63 events, had 153 
associates volunteer 
894 hours, and 
donated over $45,000 
to charities. 
|  38
Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportItaly 
Our associates in Italy made great strides in creating 
a more diverse and inclusive community. In 2018, we 
engaged by:
•  Supporting iWIN (International Women’s Inclusion 
Network) initiatives to improve female inclusion and 
empowerment at ADP.
•  Volunteering and fundraising for the World Food 
Programme.  
China 
Our philanthropic efforts in China focused on the medical 
issues afflicting our most vulnerable populations. Our 
2018 initiatives included:
•  Hosting the Charity Night Bike Ride, a fundraiser for chil-
dren with congenital heart disease.
•  Sponsoring associates across five teams in biking 8 km to 
raise funds for the Shanghai Baby’s Home, a charity that 
provides orphans with needed surgical care. 
•  Celebrating Earth Day by promoting recycling in and 
around our offices.Brazil
Our corporate social responsibility efforts in Brazil included:
•  625 lbs of food donated during the FIFA World Cup to 
Grandma & Grandpa Nursing Home.
•  Sponsored #Girls for IT through Junior Achievement 
Brazil, introducing girls aged 17–22 to information 
technology.
Philippines
In the Philippines, ADP’s 2018 initiatives were focused on 
education:
•  Over 800 associates participated in Rise Against Hunger, 
providing students with meals.
•  Donated 600+ back packs and school supplies, 65 pairs of 
school shoes and sponsored 10 college students. 
|  39
Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportEnvironment
At ADP, environmental sustainability 
is integral to both our corporate 
social responsibility program and our 
business strategy. We understand 
which environmental issues are 
relevant to our business and offer 
opportunities for us to make a 
meaningful impact. We also believe 
that creating sustainable products 
and streamlining our operations 
drives efficiency, innovation and, 
ultimately, long-term value-creation.
|  40Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportWe are committed to improving energy efficiency in our 
facilities and reducing our greenhouse gas emissions asso-
ciated with energy usage, vehicle fleets and air travel. 
ADP’s main sources of greenhouse gas emissions are our 
office and data center facilities, and our current goal is 
to reduce emissions by 10 percent by the year 2020 in 
the United States through investments in efficiency and 
conservation. 
Climate change and ADP
Climate change could have several potential impacts on 
our business. These include weather-related events inter-
rupting business operations, supply chain disruptions, dis-
ruptions to our clients’ businesses and possibly regulatory 
changes. Our ability to anticipate these impacts and take 
mitigation steps has clear implications for our business. Energy conservation
Throughout 2018, ADP invested in energy reduction ini-
tiatives that improved efficiency, reduced energy demand 
and decreased our Company’s contribution to climate change. 
Some examples include the installation of LED lighting; 
implementing new Building Management Systems (BMS) 
to automate control of ventilation, lighting and heating/
cooling systems efficiency; and repairing heating water 
valves. In aggregate, our conservation efforts are esti-
mated to have reduced our 2018 electricity consumption 
by about 3 million kilowatt hours, and will continue to 
reduce our annual consumption by 5 million kilowatt hours. 
ADP annually reports to the Carbon Disclosure Project 
(CDP) regarding its emissions-reduction initiatives. For 
more information on these efficiency projects and our 
2018 emissions, visit CDP’s website here.Energy and greenhouse gas reductions
In aggregate, our conservation efforts are estimated to 
have reduced our 2018 electricity consumption by about 3 
million kilowatt hours, and will continue to reduce our annual 
consumption by 5 million kilowatt hours. 
|  41Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportEmissions reduction
In 2018, ADP improved its data collection and management, and for the first time we are able to release both our 2018 
and 2017 greenhouse gas scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions. ADP’s direct emissions slightly increased from 2017 and 2018 while 
indirect emissions (scope 2 and 3) decreased.
Scope 1: Dir ect Emissions020,00040,00060,00080,000100,000120,000140,000
Scope 2: Indir ect Emissions2017 2018
Scope 3: Indir ect Emissions
Scope 1: Dir ect Emissions020,00040,00060,00080,000100,000120,000140,000
Scope 2: Indir ect Emissions2017 2018
Scope 3: Indir ect EmissionsGlobal Market-Based EmissionsGlobal Location-Based Emissions
|  42Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportFleet
As part of our commitment to reducing our greenhouse gas emissions, ADP is replacing its vehicle fleet with fuel-efficient 
vehicles. As a result of the improvement in ADP’s data quality, we are now able to provide an emissions figure for our vehi-
cle fleet: In 2018, our fleet emitted 11,000 metric tons of carbon, which r epresents approximately 5 percent of our total 
greenhouse gas emissions. This figure is accounted for in our scope 1 emissions in the figures on page 42.
Electric vehicle charging stations
In addition to ensuring access to public transportation and bike racks, ADP is increasing the availability of electric vehicle 
charging stations at our facilities. Part of all new lease negotiations include discussions between our Real Estate team 
and landlords regarding the possibility of installing electric vehicle (EV) charging units. From 2017 to 2018, the number of 
charging stations and ports increased, from 22 to 37 and 44 to 73, respectively. Miles Per Gallon vs Emission VehicleAverage emissions per v ehicle (g/km)
2013 Q3 2014 Q1 2014 Q3 2015 Q1 2015 Q3 2016 Q1
Calendar Quarter of Date2016 Q3 2017 Q1 2017 Q3 2018 Q1 2018 Q3 2019 Q1
 Average miles per gallon
262830323436
150
0 0175200Miles P er Gallon Avg. Emission per V ehicle
Stations20
0406080
Ports2017 2018Electric Vehicle Stations and Ports
|  43Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportIn 2019, ADP is investing in upgrading all EV charging 
units in our portfolio. The new units will provide infor-
mation on GHG emissions avoided and other information 
about EV usage at ADP. To accommodate the 150+ regis-
tered ADP electric vehicle drivers in the U.S., ADP plans to 
install four additional EV charging units. 
Renewable and alternative energy
To further reduce ADP's emissions footprint, we’ve 
invested in fuel cell technology that generates energy 
without water or greenhouse gas emissions. In 2018, the 
fuel cell in La Palma, California slightly decreased electric  
output; however, it is still operating at 90 percent capac-
ity. ADP will continue to look for opportunities to use 
alternative fuel technologies, like fuel cells and solar 
energy, in the future.  Building with LEED certification
ADP endorses and pursues certification according to the 
Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) 
green building certification program in our construction 
projects whenever feasible. Projects built in accordance 
with LEED’s guidance are more efficient and environmen-
tally sustainable, thereby reducing costs and minimizing 
environmental impacts. 
Data centers
To reduce ADP's overall greenhouse gas emissions, we 
continue to assess and improve the energy efficiency of 
our data centers. We look for ways to conserve energy 
by implementing passive design features, reconfiguring 
office design and investing in efficient hardware and 
cooling systems. 
We will continue to rationalize our data center network as 
we offload some ADP-hosted workloads. ADP has decom-
missioned 20 data center facilities since 2015, contributing 
to a reduction in carbon footprint.LEED Gold
LEED Silver
El Paso, Texas 
7650 San Felipe Drive
Norfolk, Virginia 
One Commercial Place
Augusta, Georgia  
Expansion
One ADP DriveAugusta, Georgia  
(original building) 
One ADP Drive
Chelsea Labs,  
New Y ork City
135 West 18th Street
Pasadena, California
55 South Lake Street
|  44Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportPaper
As a payroll and HR services provider, paper waste has 
historically been a major aspect of our environmental 
footprint. After recognizing the opportunity to reduce 
waste for both our clients and our own business, we 
began offering digitized services and launched paper 
waste reduction initiatives. Requests for electronic 
services in our Small Business Solutions division have 
increased from 5 percent in 2014 to 49+ percent in 
2018. Additionally, since ADP’s 2017 global “All Shred 
Campaign,” paper shred has decreased by 14 percent,  
due to a reduction in print in the U.S. In all locations,  
ADP recycles paper through the shred program, and we 
rejuvenated the campaign in 2019 to include all paper 
based materials with new training on recycling. 
Construction debris
ADP continues to require that construction debris from 
ADP buildings be recycled. Although we did not have 
any new construction projects in 2018, several build-
ings were updated. During the decommission process, 
workstations and unsalvageable items (that could not be 
donated) were recycled. Plastic, aluminum and glass recycling
All ADP buildings include designated recycling containers 
and we encourage all associates to partake in minimizing 
our waste footprint. In 2018, ADP continued its large-scale 
recycling efforts, increasing associate participation by 70 
percent from 2017. This translated into a 3.2x increase 
in plastic, aluminum and glass recycling and +500 tons of 
materials recycled.Waste management
Plastic, Metal, Glass Recycled
2017100200300400500
0600700800
2018Tons5%49%+
2014 to 2018Increase in Electronic 
Services in Small Business 
Solutions Division
+500 tons
A 70 percent increase in 
associate participation 
translated into a 3.2x 
increase in plastic, 
aluminum and glass 
recycling and +500 tons 
of materials recycled.This data is for 38 ADP managed sites, which represent two-thirds of 
the square footage real estate portfolio reporting plastic, metal and 
glass recycling.
|  45Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportElectronic waste
ADP partners with an electronic waste recycler/reseller 
to reuse or recycle all components of our electronic 
waste. Prior to recycling, the data is removed from the 
electronics, which are then returned to the vendor when 
the lease expires. In 2018, ADP recycled 225 tons of elec-
tronic waste. 
Gift-in-kind donations
During 2018, ADP continued to donate furniture and 
office supplies no longer needed to nonprofit organiza-
tions. In 2018, we donated 2,108 items valued at over 
$110,000, resulting in the diversion of 10 tons of waste  
in the United States.Cafeteria sustainable products 
ADP requires our cafeterias and bistros to use sustainable 
products whenever feasible. Disposable serviceware is 
made from biodegradable materials, and cutlery is made 
from recycled plastic material. Three of our cafeterias 
have Food Waste Pulping Machines, contributing to ADP’s 
mission of reducing our environmental impact. In 2018, we 
continued to prohibit all Styrofoam products and began 
recycling all cooking grease.
All of ADP’s non-
U.S. locations use 
biodegradeable 
flatware.
|  46Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportWe organize green initiatives to encourage ADP associates 
to participate in ADP’s sustainability efforts. In 2018, 
we continued the energy-reduction "Turn Off Monitors 
Campaign," donations of excess office supplies and furni-
ture, and virtual meetings to engage associates around the 
world. We also publish a monthly newsletter describing 
various Company sustainability efforts.ADP’s corporate social responsibility group partners with 
local engagement volunteers to plan sustainability activ-
ities that benefit the community. These include making 
donations when we renovate or vacate our buildings, 
planting trees, working with Habitat for Humanity,  
cleaning waterways, and ride sharing programs.Green initiatives
|  47Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportIn developing ADP's global corporate social responsibility report, we performed a 
benchmarking analysis to determine and prioritize our disclosures regarding the 
environmental, social and governance (ESG) activities and initiatives within our 
organization. We also prioritized alignment with our business strategy and  
priorities, namely:
• Driving growth
• Meeting client and market needs
• Attracting, retaining and developing talent
• Operational efficiency
• Innovation that drives differentiation
• Risk managementFurther, we evaluated our disclosures deemed to be priorities for our business and 
stakeholders against the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards.
Our multi-dimensional approach to prioritizing our ESG areas of focus first draws 
from our talented pool of associates who have an astounding breadth of knowledge 
as it pertains to HCM, risk management and sustainable operations. We also benefit 
from engagement with other stakeholders such as clients, investors, suppliers, com-
munities, policymakers and both governmental and non- 
governmental organizations. Our reporting will continue to evolve in line with best 
practices and input from our stakeholders.
In some areas, we rely on U.S. statistics where global numbers are not available.GRI Index
GRI Series GRI Sub-series GRI Disclosure # GRI Disclosure Title Source
102 
General Disclosures102—Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organizationhttps://s23.q4cdn.com/483669984/files/doc_finan -
cials/proxy/adp_courtesy-pdf.pdf
102  
General Disclosures102—Organizational Profile 102-2Activities, brands, products, and 
serviceshttps://www.adp.com/what-we-offer/products.aspx
102  
General Disclosures102—Organizational Profile 102-3 Location of headquarters https://s23.q4cdn.com/483669984/files/doc_finan -
cials/proxy/adp_courtesy-pdf.pdf
102  
General Disclosures102—Organizational Profile 102-4 Location of operations https://www.adp.com/worldwide-locations.aspx
and also  
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/  
8670/000000867019000021/q4fy1910kwithex -
hibits.pdf#page=3
|  48Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportGRI Series GRI Sub-series GRI Disclosure # GRI Disclosure Title Source
102  
General Disclosures102—Organizational Profile 102-5 Ownership and legal formhttps://s23.q4cdn.com/483669984/files/doc_finan -
cials/proxy/adp_courtesy-pdf.pdf
102  
General Disclosures102—Organizational Profile 102-6 Markets served https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/
data/8670/000000867019000021/q4fy1910kwi -
thexhibits.pdf#page=3
102  
General Disclosures102—Organizational Profile 102-7 Scale of the organization https://s23.q4cdn.com/483669984/files/doc_finan -
cials/annual/2019/ADP-10K.pdf
102  
General Disclosures102—Organizational Profile 102-6 Markets served https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/
data/8670/000000867019000021/q4fy1910kwi -
thexhibits.pdf#page=3
102  
General Disclosures102—Organizational Profile 102-7 Scale of the organization https://s23.q4cdn.com/483669984/files/doc_finan -
cials/annual/2019/ADP-10K.pdf
102  
General Disclosures102—Organizational Profile 102-8Information on employees and  
other workers Page 19 of CSR Report
102  
General Disclosures102—Organizational Profile 102-9 Supply chain Page 34 of CSR Report
102  
General Disclosures102—Strategy 102-14Statement from senior  
decision-maker Page 3 of CSR Report
102  
General Disclosures102—Strategy 102-1 5 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities https://s23.q4cdn.com/483669984/files/doc_finan -
cials/annual/2019/ADP-10K.pdf
102  
General Disclosures102 – Ethics and Integrity 102-16Values, principles, standards, and 
norms of behavior Page 4 of CSR Report
102  
General Disclosures102—Ethics and Integrity 102-17Mechanisms for advice and concerns 
about ethics Page 7 of CSR Report  
and also  
https://www.adp.com/about-adp/corporate-social-re -
sponsibility/ethics.aspx#V
102  
General Disclosures102—Governance 102-18 Governance structure https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/
data/8670/000120677419003299/adp3610941-de-
f14a.htm#CorporateGovernance
102  
General Disclosures102—Governance 102-19 Delegating authority Page 6 of CSR Report
|  49Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportGRI Series GRI Sub-series GRI Disclosure # GRI Disclosure Title Source
102  
General Disclosures102—Governance 102-20Executive-level responsibility for eco -
nomic, environmental,  
and social topicsPages 5–6 of CSR Report
102  
General Disclosures102—Governance 102-21Consulting stakeholders on economic, 
environmental,  
and social topicsPages 5–6 of CSR Report
102  
General Disclosures102—Governance 102-22Composition of the highest gover -
nance body and its 
committeeshttps://s23.q4cdn.com/483669984/files/doc_finan -
cials/proxy/adp_courtesy-pdf.pdf
102  
General Disclosures102—Governance 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/
data/8670/000120677419003299/adp3610941-de-
f14a.htm#BoardLeadershipStructure
102  
General Disclosures102—Governance 102-24Nominating and selecting the highest 
governance body https://s23.q4cdn.com/483669984/files/doc_finan -
cials/proxy/adp_courtesy-pdf.pdf   
as well as  
https://s23.q4cdn.com/483669984/files/doc_finan -
cials/proxy/adp_courtesy-pdf.pdf#page=24   
and   
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/
data/8670/000120677419003299/adp3610941-de-
f14a.htm#DirectorNominationProcess
102  
General Disclosures102—Governance 102-25 Conflicts of interest https://s23.q4cdn.com/483669984/files/doc_finan -
cials/proxy/adp_courtesy-pdf.pdf   
and also  
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/
data/8670/000120677419003299/adp3610941-de-
f14a.htm#CorporateGovernance
102  
General Disclosures102—Governance 102-27Collective knowledge of highest gov -
ernance body Pages 5–6 of CSR Report
|  50Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportGRI Series GRI Sub-series GRI Disclosure # GRI Disclosure Title Source
102  
General Disclosures102—Governance 102-28Evaluating the highest governance 
body’s performance Page 5 of CSR Report  
and also  
https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/
data/8670/000120677419003299/adp3610941-de-
f14a.htm#BoardCompositionandDirectorSuccession -
Planning
102  
General Disclosures102—Governance 102-29Identifying and managing economic, 
environmental,  
and social impactPage 5 of CSR Report
102  
General Disclosures102—Governance 102-30Effectiveness of risk management 
processes Page 5 of CSR Report
102  
General Disclosures102—Governance 102-31Review of economic, environmental, 
and social topics Pages 5–6 of CSR Report
102  
General Disclosures102—Governance 102-32Highest governance body’s role in sus -
tainability reporting Page 6 of CSR Report
102  
General Disclosures102—Governance 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Page 7 of CSR Report
102  
General Disclosures102—Governance 102-35 Remuneration policies https://s23.q4cdn.com/483669984/files/doc_finan -
cials/proxy/adp_courtesy-pdf.pdf
102  
General Disclosures102—Governance 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio https://s23.q4cdn.com/483669984/files/doc_finan -
cials/proxy/adp_courtesy-pdf.pdf
102  
General Disclosures102—Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups https://s23.q4cdn.com/483669984/files/doc_finan -
cials/proxy/adp_courtesy-pdf.pdf#page= 15
102  
General Disclosures102—Stakeholder Engagement 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders https://s23.q4cdn.com/483669984/files/doc_finan -
cials/proxy/adp_courtesy-pdf.pdf#page= 15
102  
General Disclosures102—Stakeholder Engagement 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement https://s23.q4cdn.com/483669984/files/doc_finan -
cials/proxy/adp_courtesy-pdf.pdf#page= 15
102  
General Disclosures102—Stakeholder Engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Page 27 of CSR Report 
and also  
https://s23.q4cdn.com/483669984/files/doc_finan -
cials/proxy/adp_courtesy-pdf.pdf#page= 15
|  51Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportGRI Series GRI Sub-series GRI Disclosure # GRI Disclosure Title Source
102  
General Disclosures102—Reporting Practice 102-45Entities included in the consolidated 
financial statements https://s23.q4cdn.com/483669984/files/doc_finan -
cials/annual/2019/ADP-10K.pdf
102  
General Disclosures102—Reporting Practice 102-46Defining report content and topic 
Boundaries Page 48 of CSR Report
102  
General Disclosures102—Reporting Practice 102-47 List of material topics Page 48 of CSR Report
102  
General Disclosures102—Reporting Practice 102-48 Restatements of information https://s23.q4cdn.com/483669984/files/doc_finan -
cials/annual/2019/ADP-10K.pdf
102  
General Disclosures102—Reporting Practice 102-53Contact point for questions regarding 
the report dawn.verrinder@adp.com
102  
General Disclosures102—Reporting Practice 102-55 GRI content index Page 48–54 of CSR Report 
200  
Economic201  
Economic Performance201-1Direct economic value generated and 
distributed https://s23.q4cdn.com/483669984/files/doc_finan -
cials/annual/2019/ADP-10K.pdf
200  
Economic201  
Economic Performance201-2Financial implications and other risks 
and opportunities due  
to climate changePage 40 of CSR Report
200  
Economic201  
Economic Performance201-3Defined benefit plan obligations and 
other retirement planshttps://s23.q4cdn.com/483669984/files/doc_finan -
cials/annual/2019/ADP-10K.pdf
200  
Economic203 series  
Indirect Economic Impacts203-1Infrastructure investments and ser -
vices supportedPage 30 of CSR Report
200  
Economic203 series  
Indirect Economic Impacts203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Page 12 of CSR Report
200  
Economic204 series  
Procurement Practices204-1Proportion of spending on local 
suppliersPage 34 of CSR Report
300  
Environmental301 series  
Materials3 01-1 Materials used by weight or volume Page 45 of CSR Report
300  
Environmental302 series  
Energy3 02-1Energy consumption within the 
organizationPage 43 of CSR Report
300  
Environmental302 series  
Energy302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Page 42 of CSR Report
|  52Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportGRI Series GRI Sub-series GRI Disclosure # GRI Disclosure Title Source
300  
Environmental305 series  
Emissions3 05 -1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Page 42 of CSR Report
300  
Environmental305 series  
Emissions305-2Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 
emissionsPage 42 of CSR Report
300  
Environmental305 series  
Emissions305-3Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG 
emissionsPage 42 of CSR Report
300  
Environmental305 series  
Emissions305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Page 42 of CSR Report
300  
Environmental306  
Effluents & Waste306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Page 45 of CSR Report
400  
Social401  
Employment401-2Benefits provided to full-time employ -
ees that are not provided to temporary 
or part-time employeesPage 24 of CSR Report
400  
Social401  
Employment401-3 Parental leave Page 24 of CSR Report
400  
Social403  
Occupational Health & Safety403-2Hazard identification, risk assess -
ment, and incident investigationPage 25 of CSR Report
400  
Social403  
Occupational Health & Safety403-3 Occupational health services Page 25 of CSR Report
400  
Social403  
Occupational Health & Safety403-5Worker training on occupational 
health and safetyPage 25 of CSR Report
400  
Social403  
Occupational Health & Safety403-6 Promotion of worker health Page 25 of CSR Report
400  
Social403  
Occupational Health & Safety403-7Prevention and mitigation of 
occupational health and safety 
impacts directly linked by business 
relationshipsPage 25 of CSR Report
400  
Social404  
Training & Education404-1Average hours of training per year  
per employeePage 26 of CSR Report
|  53Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportGRI Series GRI Sub-series GRI Disclosure # GRI Disclosure Title Source
400  
Social404  
Training & Education404-2Programs for upgrading employee 
skills and transition assistance 
programsPage 26 of CSR Report
400  
Social404  
Training & Education404-3Percentage of employees receiving 
regular performance and career devel -
opment reviewsPage 27 of CSR Report
400  
Social405  
Diversity & Equal Opportunity405 -1Diversity of governance bodies and 
employeesPage 19 of CSR Report
400  
Social406  
Non-discrimination406 Management approach disclosureshttps://www.adp.com/about-adp/corporate-social-re -
sponsibility/ethics.aspx
400  
Social413  
Local Communities41 3-1Operations with local community 
engagement, impact assessments, and 
development programshttps://jobs.adp.com/life-at-adp/diversity-inclusion/
400  
Social413  
Local Communities41 3-1Operations with local community 
engagement, impact assessments, and 
development programsPage 30 of CSR Report
400  
Social415  
Public Policy41 5 -1 Political contributions Page 8 of CSR Report
|  54Governance CEO Message Innovation Associates Community Environment GRI Index Global Corporate Social Responsibility ReportPurple
ADP, the ADP logo, and Always Designing for People are trademarks of ADP, LLC.  
Copyright © 2020  ADP, Inc. All rights reserved.