Creating a Helpful
and Hopeful World
Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
Issued: November 2020GOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  2
CEO Message
A Message from Carlos Rodriguez 3Governance  4
Our Board 5
Ethics and Compliance 6
Data Privacy 8
Global Security 10Innovation  11
Innovation Strategy 12
Modern Trends Driving  
our Innovation 13
Enhancing our Clients’  
HCM Landscape 14Associates  15
Diversity and Inclusion 16
Talent Acquisition  
and Retention 23
Training and development 26
Recognitions 31Community  32
Philanthropy and Volunteering 33
Globally Progressing the SDGs 35
Environment  37
Energy and GHG Reductions 38
Waste Management 40
Green Initiatives 41
Data Centers 42Commitment to ESG  43 Indices  44 
GRI Index 44
SASB Disclosure 47Highlights  50Table of ContentsGOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  3
Letter from President/CEO
The world of work relies on people having the tools, environment, and opportunity to do their best work. At ADP, we proudly share 
our dedication to unlocking potential for our clients, our people, and our global communities.
When ADP first started supporting businesses more than 70 years ago, 
our founders established values to guide our decisions. Today, those core 
values drive everything ADP does and central among them are Integrity is 
Everything and Each Person Counts. Our 58,000-person workforce builds 
and drives our technology and expertise... and they make it possible to provide 
cutting-edge tools and world-class service to more than 860,000 clients in 
more than 140 countries.
Drastic shifts in today’s world exposed a heightened need to address  
diversity, equity and inclusion at work and beyond. When social unrest  
and renewed calls for racial justice echoed across the U.S. and the world –  
ADP listened. As a global business leader, we have a responsibility to respond 
thoughtfully and to ensure we are part of the solution.
Our experience is consistent with the research: diverse workforces drive  
innovation and lead to better corporate performance. Beyond the business case, 
we value and intentionally choose to cultivate a culture that embraces all forms  
of gender, race, ethnicity, age, sexual identity and orientation, veteran status  
and ability. We are committed to attracting and retaining the world’s  
greatest talent; building diverse, inclusive teams; and being the kind of  
workplace where work aligns with passion. We embrace this philosophy at all 
levels of our Company, from entry level to management and executive positions.
ADP also plays a vital role in helping our client organizations take care of 
their employees. Our clients entrust us to help them more effectively manage, 
deploy, compensate and serve the human resource needs of their people, while 
also handling and protecting their most sensitive data. With this trust comes great responsibility – a responsibility we take very seriously. We believe we 
have a duty to enable diversity and inclusion to flourish in the workforce for  
the benefit of all workers and the businesses they support.
ADP also embraces our role in giving back to and generating a lasting, positive 
impact upon the communities in which we work and live. Corporate social 
responsibility (CSR) is a core principle within ADP values, and it encompasses 
everything from corporate governance, ethics and environmental stewardship 
to diversity, philanthropy and promoting employee success around the world.
This edition of ADP’s Annual Corporate Social Responsibility Report details 
with greater transparency our alignment to global sustainability and  
diversity goals. As we advise other companies to tackle these issues within 
their organizations, we want to share our journey as a good corporate citizen 
and technology leader for the global workforce.
At ADP, we constantly strive to embed socially responsible principles and  
practices into everything we do. Above all, we remain optimistic about the 
future and committed to making positive contributions that will benefit the 
world today and for generations to come.
Sincerely,
 
Carlos Rodriguez 
President and CEO
When social unrest and 
renewed calls for racial justice 
echoed across the U.S. and 
the world – ADP listened. As 
a global business leader, we 
have a responsibility to respond 
thoughtfully and to ensure we 
are part of the solution.”GOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
Governance
ADP delivers on its brand promise through a culture of ethics, compliance 
and good governance. Our commitment to operating responsibly is intrinsic 
to our business strategy and is the principle philosophy behind the 
products we design for our clients. This culture starts with our Board of 
Directors and cascades through our organization, ensuring that every  
associate plays a role in reaching our own high expectations.
•  4GOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  5Our Board of Directors is dedicated to sound corporate governance practices that provide  
our shareholders with meaningful rights and foster strong independent leadership in our  
board room. We understand that creating sustainable long-term value for shareholders is only  
possible by committing to strong governance practices and open dialogue through continuous 
direct engagement.
Risk and strategy oversight
Our Board of Directors oversees the Company’s enterprise risk assessment and integrated risk management activities. 
These are designed to identify, prioritize, assess, monitor and mitigate various risks confronting the Company, including 
risks related to the execution of the Company’s operational and financial strategy. Our directors also take an active role in 
the oversight of the Company’s strategy at both a board and committee level, while management teams are responsible for 
the execution of our business strategy.
ESG governance
Our Board of Directors is directly focused on the long-term sustainability of our business. In line with this goal, the  
nominating/corporate governance committee oversees the Company’s environmental, social and governance (ESG) policies 
and programs. The committee receives regular updates from ADP’s Chief Diversity, Inclusion and CSR Officer (CSRO), and 
reports back on these matters to the Board. This arrangement allows our Board to engage with the Company more freely 
and across a broad range of ESG topics. Our Board has complete and open access to our CSRO, who spearheads our ESG 
Steering Committee to lead our ESG efforts. This Steering Committee is comprised of senior leaders at ADP, and their 
meetings occur on a quarterly basis to more effectively communicate and manage sustainability-related issues affecting 
the Company, now and into the future.Our Board
For more information on the Board’s committees,  
governance policies and practices, including  
standards for director independence, qualifications 
for board membership and the process for evaluating 
board performance, please refer to the Corporate 
Governance Section of our website.GOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  6We are proud of our culture and values—they are the foundation of our ongoing success.  
Our primary core value, “Integrity is Everything,” sets the tone for our Company, and is one  
of our competitive differentiators. Essential policies that guide ADP include:
• Code of Business Conduct & Ethics
• Code of Ethics for Principal Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers
• Anti-Bribery Policy
• Insider Trading Policy
• Modern Slavery Statement
• Vendor Code of Conduct
Global ethics
ADP’s Global Ethics team offers our associates training, advice, counsel and support on all aspects of the Code of Business 
Conduct and Ethics and Anti-Bribery Policy. In addition, Global Ethics conducts investigations into ethical matters and 
issues reported through ADP’s Ethics Helpline and supports the General Counsel in reporting to the Board of Directors and 
Audit Committee.
Global compliance
The Global Compliance team identifies and prioritizes compliance risks, and decides if the y are suitably managed. Global 
Compliance activities not only reduce the likelihood of non-compliance with ADP Policies and applicable laws, but also  
contribute to ADP’s profitability and growth by supporting compliance as a centerpiece of our products and services.Oversight and StructureEthics and Compliance
Overall responsibility for the 
compliance programExecutive committee support, 
oversight and guidance to the 
program
Day-to-day operational 
responsibility for the 
compliance program
Day-to-day management 
implementation and reporting 
at business unit/function levelGeneral Counsel
(Chief Compliance Officer)Corporate Compliance 
Committee
Global Compliance
Compliance CommitteesOversight of the compliance programAudit CommitteeGOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  7Integrated assurance and risk management
All assurance functions, including both global compliance and global ethics, 
take an integrated, systemic approach to risk management. They are based on 
a coordinated model of coverage between business line management, which 
has responsibility for the day-to-day control environment and the assurance 
functions. Our Board of Directors, acting directly and through its committees, is 
responsible for the oversight of ADP’s risk management activities. With Board 
oversight, ADP has implemented programs and practices that are designed to 
inspire ethical behavior, manage and govern risk to protect the Company’s brand 
and reputation, and grow shareholder value.
Facilitating our clients’ compliance
ADP designs products and solutions to help our clients meet their compliance 
obligations. This includes delivering updates and best practices on the latest 
legislative and regulatory developments, through the ADP SPARK blog and the 
ADP Workplace Spotlight webinar series. To see examples of how ADP designs 
compliance into our products and services, visit our ADP COVID-19 Employer 
Preparedness Toolkit, ADP SmartCompliance®, and HR Compliance pages.
Ethics and compliance trainings
Every year, each associate completes our Code of Business Conducts & Ethics 
training, with 100% participation and completion in FY’20. We also conduct 
specialized compliance trainings specific to our associates’ roles. This training is 
supplemented by awareness programs and initiatives such as internal articles, 
blogs, videos and other global compliance communications.Public policy and government relations
As the largest single source of U.S. tax payments and employment tax reports, 
ADP has considerable expertise in tax administration and many other areas of 
employment-related administrative matters. We contribute to sound government 
policy by educating and collaborating with policymakers. For example, ADP 
worked with the Treasury Department and Small Business Administration on 
guidance needed to implement the Paycheck Protection Program under the 
2020 CARES Act; and with the Internal Revenue Service to establish required 
employer reporting and tax credit requirements associated with the Families 
First Coronavirus Response Act (FFCRA) 2020 and Employee Retention Credits 
under the CARES Act. Similarly, ADP worked with state agencies in CT, MA, OR 
and other states to design employer reporting and tax payment systems to  
support newly enacted paid sick leave and family leave programs.
Campaign contributions
ADP has a strict policy of “no financial support” for any political candidate, 
party or government office worldwide. ADP does not contribute funds to  
political campaigns of any sort and does not sponsor or maintain a Political 
Action Committee (PAC). Read more on our Political Contributions Policy.GOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  8Technology has changed how people work and has introduced new challenges to safeguarding everyone’s privacy. Processing  
personal data while staying on top of the mounting compliance challenges of privacy and data protection is one of our founding  
principles. As a service provider, we make individuals’ privacy and data security a priority for all of our products and services. This is  
the reason why thousands of multinational enterprises and millions of employees, workers and consumers entrust ADP with their  
personal data. As a company that complies with privacy legislation covering the personal data we hold for our own employees and  
business contacts, we have embedded privacy principles within our processes.
Data privacy throughout the organization
ADP has developed a governance structure for our privacy program that ingrains 
data privacy at every level of our organization and in every product we design. 
This includes:
•  Global Data Privacy team — Spearheads privacy efforts across our organization
•  Privacy Leadership Council — Made up of cross-disciplinary professionals 
including representatives from our business units
•  Privacy Stewards — Designated business leaders that manage the controlled 
processing of your personal data within each ADP business unit and function
Our Global Privacy Program is essential to our approach to protecting our 
Clients’ data and revolves around the following privacy principles:
•  Ethics in Artificial Intelligence 
As outlined in our Ethics in AI position statement, we have adopted a set of 
principles and processes to govern our ethical use of newer technologies such 
as artificial intelligence or machine learning.•  Privacy by Design 
Privacy principles are hardcoded within the ADP business model. We prioritize 
privacy and data protection at every stage as we design and develop new  
products and services.
•  Transparency and notice 
ADP publishes Privacy Statements to inform our associates, business  
contacts, client employees, workers, and job applicants as to how their  
personal data is collected and for which purposes it will be processed.
•  Data Minimization and Access Control 
We collect and use only essential personal data necessary to achieve the 
business purpose for which data was collected. While ADP processes personal 
data, internal access to data is granted based on role and job function.
•  Documented Data Processing Activities 
We perform data flow mapping and privacy assessments on our data processing 
activities, enabling us to hold an inventory of our processing activities.•  Standardized Record Information Management 
At ADP, our record retention schedules govern the proper retention for 
every category of record that ADP maintains and when the records should be 
destroyed.
•  Incident Management Process 
Our incident response process is designed to ensure that any information  
security incidents are addressed promptly and effectively, in accordance with 
ADP security policies, procedures and legal requirements.
•  Supervision of Third-Party Providers 
ADP vendors must contractually comply with our data security and privacy 
standards. Our vendor assurance process enables ADP to assess its vendors 
before entering into a contract with them.Data PrivacyGOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  9Binding corporate rules, approved by the EU
As of March 2018, ADP ranks among an elite number of companies worldwide 
to have gained regulators’ approval to implement BCRs as both a data processor 
(covering the processing of clients’ data) and data controller (covering the data 
of our employees and other business associates).
•  BCRs are policies developed internally among a group of companies that share 
a common parent
•  They provide a consistent set of rules for transferring the personal data of 
clients, employees and other individuals internationally, regardless of where 
such data is processed
•  BCRs become legally binding once the EU Data Protection Authorities approve 
them (the DPAs are the regulators based in each of the EU’s Member States)
•  The EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) expressly recognizes BCRs 
as a means to safeguard the transfer of personal data out of the EU
•  Authorities regard BCRs as the best option for protecting individuals’ privacy 
rights in accordance with the GDPR requirements
Emerging privacy advancements and goals
Privacy changes are also underway in the United States. We are actively  
monitoring these changes and have operationalized a U.S. privacy program  
based on the California Consumer Privacy Act requirements and other  
upcoming state-level privacy laws.Privacy and data protection trainings
As global privacy legislation evolves, we make sure to provide our associates 
with the tools and training they need to comply with all relevant laws. ADP 
Associates and contingent workers are trained on the appropriate use and  
handling of personal data. We employ various tools, techniques and programs  
to embed security into our associates’ and contingent workers’ day-to-day  
professional and personal lives.
Remote privacy during COVID-19
Keeping both our associates and our clients’ data safe is essential, especially 
during these trying times. To address both issues, work from home security 
processes are embedded in our Security and Privacy policies and standards. 
ADP limits access to our clients’ employee data to the ADP associates who are 
currently supporting the respective client. Additionally, we utilize technical 
controls such as data encryption and Network Access Control (NAC) to address 
the risk of unauthorized access. Our remote network requires the use of IPSEC 
VPN connectivity with two-factor authentication for connection. ADP requires 
all confidential information to be encrypted on all remote computing devices.GOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  10With an ever-changing digital landscape bringing limitless possibilities, new, complex security risks and threats are introduced.  
At ADP, security is integral to our products, our business processes, and infrastructure. We use and deliver advanced services and 
technology for data security, data privacy, fraud prevention, and crisis management.
ADP’s converged security organization has dedicated teams of security  
specialists who monitor for cyber security threats, fraud attempts and  
business resilience incidents 24/7/365 to proactively assist in addressing 
issues before they escalate.
ADP provides the advantages of a global industry-leading advanced platform 
defense, intelligent detection, automated data protection, fraud defense,  
identity and access management, and so much more. By embedding multiple 
layers of protection into our products, business processes, and infrastructure, 
security remains a priority for our business. By collaborating with key government 
and industry partnerships, memberships and alliances, ADP uses threat-led 
intelligence to stay ahead of the risks.
WISE – Women in Security Enterprises
As part of ADP’s Diversity & Inclusion strategy, we try to create diverse teams 
across all facets of our operations. This can be particularly difficult for divisions 
that are traditionally male dominated. Our Global Security Organization (GSO) 
recognized this challenge and created Women in Security Enterprises (W.I.S.E.) 
to better engage with ADP’s security-focused female associates. The W.I.S.E. 
program seeks to connect women in security-related fields to empower and 
support each other in advancing their careers. The program has grown to include 
almost 90 associates in its first year, and is poised to expand in the near future.Business continuity
With the world experiencing unrivaled uncertainty and disruptions due to 
COVID-19, ADP’s commitment to keeping services and operations running 
smoothly is essential, now more than ever. Our goal is to identify and mitigate 
any technological, environmental, process, or health risks that may prevent 
the delivery of our products and services to our clients. To accomplish this, we 
expanded upon our Business Resiliency Program, an integrated framework that 
establishes our mitigation, preparedness, response, and recovery process. To 
learn more, please visit our toolkit.
Recognition for security excellence
We’ve been recognized with some of the top awards in our industries. Awards 
received at ADP include:
•  “Security Magazine” 2019 and 2018, Security 500 (ranked #5 in the 
Information Technology category)
• 2020 and 2019 CSO50 Award Winner Global SecurityGOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
Innovation
At ADP, we design with people in mind. By basing our products and services 
on our clients’ needs, we create solutions together from the ground up.  
It’s a challenge we love.
•  11GOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  12As the creator of the payroll outsourcing industry, innovation is synonymous with ADP. Our 
strategy is simple: We innovate by anticipating the future of work, the future of human capital 
management and the future of pay to meet the evolving and unique needs of our clients and their 
workers. Our approach to innovation doesn’t end at products and services; it also extends to 
delivery methods for clients. We were first-to-market with HCM mobile apps, putting our value 
directly into our clients’ hands.
Our investments in innovation have grown by double digits in recent history, and the results speak for themselves. We’ve 
built Innovation Labs that host clients, listen to their needs and create the interfaces that help them reach their goals. Our 
ADP Research Institute® publishes world-class, data-driven studies and reports, continually building our understanding of 
how the modern-day workplace is evolving.
Our innovations around HCM focus on three different aspects. First, ADP provides clients with insights about their 
workforce, helping them better manage their human capital in new and unexpected ways. Second, we strive to advance 
the client-worker experience by enriching the user experience with intuitive controls and anticipatory problem solving,  
allowing the client to create solutions instead of managing problems. Finally, ADP delivers innovation by creating  
customized HCM ecosystems to suit each client’s individual needs, r esulting in a unique solution that isn’t offered  
elsewhere. With innovation, we’re transforming how great work gets done.
COVID-19 Response
In response to COVID-19, we produced a variety of solutions to help our clients navigate the pandemic and to prepare for 
recovery. We implemented over 1,000 feature changes in response to 2,000 legislative updates across 60 countries, and 
achieved record Net Promoter Scores in June 2020 as a result of this elevated level of service. To learn more, please see our 
COVID-19 Employer Preparedness Toolkit and Return to Workplace Solution.ADP’s innovation strategy
Women in  
STEM
We innovate by anticipating the future of work, the future of human capital 
management and the future of pay to meet the evolving and unique needs of 
our clients and their workers.GOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  13ADP’s extensive experience navigating the ever-evolving workplace allows us to build adaptive tools that help  
our clients work better. The following are the key trends and how ADP is addressing them.
Evolution of pay
Rapidly changing market dynamics are changing the HCM payments landscape. 
Worker expectations are influencing employers and HCM providers to offer 
flexible choices to receive wages, customize payment instruments and options, 
and enable financial wellness solutions that help workers achieve their financial 
goals and maintain worksite productivity. ADP’s offerings give workers control 
on how they get paid (e.g., paycards, direct deposit, etc.), how quickly pay is 
delivered, and the ability to collect earned wages between pay cycles, while 
maintaining compliance with regulations. Through payments-related products 
and services, we also gain insight into how people spend, putting us on the 
cutting edge of the evolution of pay and positioning us to enable employers to 
deliver financial wellness solutions to workers.
•  Wisely is an industry — leading suite of cost-effective, efficient payment 
solutions that delivers convenience, security, and financial wellness for  
workers, while ensuring employers can compliantly pay in all 50 states.
Evolution of HR
By leveraging HCM products that scale quickly across the globe, clients can 
improve the agility of employee interactions through insightful analytics.  
ADP’s team-based solution is key in helping our clients solve for how work  
is happening.•  Our Next Gen HCM solution was designed to embrace a fluid, team-based 
structure. By making insights driven by artificial intelligence (AI) accessible, 
we empower teams to make data-driven decisions. Leaders can then meet 
the unique needs of their organization and help drive performance. Global 
organizations can tailor HR and employee experiences by selecting apps 
and capabilities from both ADP and third parties, without sacrificing data 
integration, security or scalability. With Next-Gen HCM’s cloud-native,  
low-code technology platform, organizations can adapt, extend and scale  
their solution quickly and cost-effectively to support changes in their  
business strategy.
Evolution of business
While the workforce continues to globalize, organizations are faced with  
tightening labor markets and growing regulatory changes. Trying to navigate 
the culmination of all regulatory updates across multiple countries can be 
daunting to employers, especially during these trying times when solutions are 
needed quickly.
•  ADP DataCloud is a powerful data analysis tool that enables companies to 
leverage the world’s richest, most accurate dataset: anonymized data from 
30 million workers in more than 90,000 organizations across the United 
States. For instance, companies can benchmark data to find the most qualified 
candidates and develop a competitive compensation package in line with industry standards. ADP DataCloud was honored as the winner in the 2020 
AI Breakthrough Awards for the “Best AI-based Solution for Data Sciences” 
category, earning praise for breaking through the crowded field of AI to drive 
industry growth.
•  The ADP Coronavirus (COVID-19) Employer Preparedness Toolkit was designed 
to help clients navigate the challenges they and their workforce are facing.
Evolution of tech
ADP research shows that modern global companies use more than 30 
applications or vendors to meet their HCM needs. At the same time, we are 
witnessing the rise of Artificial Intelligence (AI) across enterprises.
•  ADP Marketplace is a digital HR storefront offering a collection of highly 
rated solutions, offered by ADP and external partners, ready to simply and 
securely share data with your ADP platform.
•  Large volumes of HCM transactions provide ample opportunities for automation, 
and ADP is pioneering the field of AI robotics and machine learning for HCM. We 
have evolved from using AI-driven machine learning in a variety of use-cases 
across the entire client lifecycle, to a new HCM system designed to create a 
work-life assistant that is always on and always learning, delivering insightful 
advice and organizing our client’s work life, with simplicity.Modern trends driving our innovationGOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  14By focusing on solutions for emerging trends, ADP is addressing some of the most pressing issues facing the world today. With  
our “always designing for people” approach, we have a unique opportunity to improve the experience and well-being of our clients’ 
employees. Our products help organizations quantify and enhance their HR performance, particularly related to diversity and 
engagement. The better our clients understand their unique HCM landscape, the better the solutions we can create. Some  
features are particularly noteworthy:
•  Vantage, our all-in-one solution for strategic human capital management,  
features a visual search capability, helping companies reduce unconscious bias 
in the hiring and promotion process. Users can perform a blind resume search, 
prioritizing the best-fit candidates based purely on skill-fit for the position, 
while hiding all other personal information.
•  ADP GlobalView helps clients with large, global workforces process payroll 
on time and accurately. Multi-country organizations get the benefit of local 
experts who know the language while helping them meet country-specific 
compliance laws.
•  Pay Equity Storyboard helps employers identify potential inequities in pay 
for the same job. Its unique approach gives the user tools to understand the 
data behind such discrepancies, so that employers can investigate valid  
reasons for the pay differential or take corrective action.
•  Next Gen Pay is ADP’s next generation Global Payroll platform, built to  
support our clients worldwide. Given market trends around the evolution of 
work and pay, it provides clients with a tool that supports their future needs 
thanks to its flexible, scalable and customizable platform. ADP Next Gen Pay 
has been built natively in the Public Cloud leveraging the latest technologies, 
including AI and Machine Learning (ML) to improve our service quality and 
implementation times.•  Our Next Gen Tax Engine is the foundation of our tax compliance solutions. 
With greater automation and real-time information, the engine’s built-in  
protections help with compliance, exposing errors and preventing tax  
violations. It was designed for scale, handling both high- and low-value  
transactions and offering more client choice in payment settlement options.
As a leading global provider of cloud-based HCM technology solutions to 
employers around the world, we have continued to process payroll and tax  
obligations and provide other HCM services to our clients, despite the  
unexpected challenges that our clients and their employees around the world 
are facing in light of the COVID-19 pandemic. ADP’s efforts have been focused 
on providing information and tools to help clients understand and navigate the 
governmental relief that has been adopted globally. As the global economy 
and landscape continues to evolve for our clients, whether due to legislative 
changes or other factors, ADP is committed to supporting our clients to help 
them navigate these challenges.Enhancing our clients’ HCM landscapeGOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
Associates
We built our purpose on a simple premise: That a company’s most valuable 
assets are its people. Designing a better way to work is both our purpose 
and passion. It’s what drives us. And it can’t happen without a strong  
commitment to valuing, growing, and engaging our people.
LEARN MORE ABOUT LIFE AT ADP
•  15GOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  16At ADP, we believe the best ideas thrive in an inclusive environment that values diverse 
perspectives. We want to be a place where everyone is appreciated for who they are. That’s  
why we make diversity and inclusion the cornerstone of our one-of-a-kind culture.
Since October 2017, our CEO Carlos Rodriguez has been a signatory f or the CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion Pledge. 
This pledge demonstrates how diversity & inclusion are top priorities at the company and exemplifies the buy-in from ADP 
leadership. This helps our organization to be recognized as an industry diversity & inclusion champion and leader.
We embrace gender identity and expression, race, ethnicity, nationality, age, sexual orientation, veteran and disability  
status. Associates from entry level through executive leadership have a deep sense of belonging.
To learn more, please visit our website.Aishwarya, Application Developer, VirginiaDiversity And Inclusion
“ I had my first child after I joined ADP and going 
through maternity leave was a breeze! And, after 
the maternity leave, the company also offers a  
separate parent-child bonding leave. I can 
confidently say that ADP provides the perfect 
work-life balance. They always put people first. All 
of the teams I have worked with here treat women 
with equality and respect their talent (a trait that is 
often hard to find in today’s corporate world).”CEO ACTION PLEDGE
We encourage our associates to utilize Marcus Buckingham’s 
Strengths Against Racism, where individuals can learn how their 
strengths can be applied to stop racism.GOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  17
The best organizations embody an 
inclusive culture that extends beyond 
the D&I function. Their leaders drive 
performance and innovation by 
demonstrating to their employees and 
to the world that people belong and are 
integral to the organization’s purpose.”
Bob Lockett, Chief Diversity and  
Talent Officer
ADP’s Commitment to  
Uniting on Diversity, Equity,  
and EqualityGOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  18Global workforce demographics
Our tens of thousands of ADP associates reflect the cultural diversity of the markets we serve. In June 2020, women represented 53% percent of ADP’s global  
workforce, with our minority female workforce growing, and 42% percent of our managers are women.
0102030405060
Workforce Management0%10%20%30%40%50%60%
Workforce53% 53%
Management42% 42%2020 Female Demographics (Global)
010203040
Workforce Management2020 Minority Demographics* (U.S. Only)
0%10%20%30%40%2020 Minority Demographic* (U.S. Only)2020 Female Demographics (Global)
Jun 2019 Jun 2020
0102030405060
Gen Z Millennial Gen X Baby Boomer0%10%20%30%40%50%60%
Baby Boomer8% 7%
Gen X31% 30%
Millennial58% 58%
Gen Z4% 5%Generation Demographics (Global) Generation Demographics (Global)
Jun 2019 Jun 2020Jun 2019 June 2020Management28%29%
Workforce38% 38%0102030405060
Workforce Management0%10%20%30%40%50%60%
Workforce53% 53%
Management42% 42%2020 Female Demographics (Global)
010203040
Workforce Management2020 Minority Demographics* (U.S. Only)
0%10%20%30%40%2020 Minority Demographic* (U.S. Only)2020 Female Demographics (Global)
Jun 2019 Jun 2020
0102030405060
Gen Z Millennial Gen X Baby Boomer0%10%20%30%40%50%60%
Baby Boomer8% 7%
Gen X31% 30%
Millennial58% 58%
Gen Z4% 5%Generation Demographics (Global) Generation Demographics (Global)
Jun 2019 Jun 2020Jun 2019 June 2020Management28%29%
Workforce38% 38%0102030405060
Workforce Management0%10%20%30%40%50%60%
Workforce53% 53%
Management42% 42%2020 Female Demographics (Global)
010203040
Workforce Management2020 Minority Demographics* (U.S. Only)
0%10%20%30%40%2020 Minority Demographic* (U.S. Only)2020 Female Demographics (Global)
Jun 2019 Jun 2020
0102030405060
Gen Z Millennial Gen X Baby Boomer0%10%20%30%40%50%60%
Baby Boomer8% 7%
Gen X31% 30%
Millennial58% 58%
Gen Z4% 5%Generation Demographics (Global) Generation Demographics (Global)
Jun 2019 Jun 2020Jun 2019 June 2020Management28%29%
Workforce38% 38%
* Minority includes the following EEOC categories (U.S. Only): Black/
African America, Hispanic/Latino, Asian, American Indian/Alaska Native, 
Native Hawaiian/Other Pac Islander, Two or More RacesJun 2019 Jun 2020
(U.S. Only) Management Workforce Management Workforce
American Indian/ 
Alaska Native0.2% 0.2% 0.2% 0.2%
Asian 7% 8% 8% 8%
Black or African American 7% 12% 7% 11%
Hispanic or Latino 11% 15% 11% 15%
Nat Hawaiian/ 
Oth Pac Islander0.2% 0.4% 0.2% 0.4%
Two or More Races 3% 3% 3% 3%
White 69% 57% 67% 56%
Not Specified 3% 5% 3% 5%
OVERALL MINORITY 28% 38% 29% 38%GOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  19Women and minorities in executive roles
The business case for workplace diversity is simple: By establishing a culture of 
inclusion, businesses gain intrinsic rewards and improved results.
Therefore, we have set directional targets that support our business objectives 
and allow us to measure progress. In 2018, after the successful conclusion of 
our last target cycle, we issued new three-year targets through 2022 for female 
and minority representation in executive positions.
As we approach 2021, we are pleased to announce that we reached our 2020 
executive goal of 33 percent female representation as of June 2020 and 
increased our minority representation to 23 percent, 3 percent above the  
2020 executive goal.
Workforce initiatives
Targeted development
Business resource groups
Our business resource groups (BRGs) are voluntary groups of like-minded  
associates that help shape our culture and foster engagement and talent  
development. They are instrumental in allowing us to make everyone feel  
welcome and included. They are also invaluable drivers of talent acceleration, 
talent referrals, increased retention, and facilitate entry to diverse markets.
BRGs are experiencing explosive growth at ADP. In 2019, global membership 
grew by 28% to 14,350 members, and 23% of ADP associates are now affiliated 
with at least one BRG. 30 new chapters were added in the United States and 
additional chapters have expanded into Canada, LATAM, APAC and Europe. 
During 2019, ADP launched a disabilities BRG to shape a culture that enables associates and those connected with disabilities to achieve their full potential. 
The importance of BRGs for ADP’s business objectives and our associates’ 
fulfillment at the job cannot be underestimated as 31% of employee referrals 
came from BRG affiliated associates, and both leaders and members of BRGs are  
promoted at a significantly higher rate than non-affiliated associates.
BRG Connect
BRG Connect is a pilot technology-enabled mentoring program that was 
launched by BRGs in 2019. During the pilot, 727 mentoring connections were 
made – the largest mentoring cohort ever at ADP - and close to 3,000 hours of 
mentoring recorded. The program was a huge success and will be expanded for 
availability to all BRG affiliated associates.
Advancing Women in Leadership (AWL)
ADP’s global Advancing Women in Leadership (AWL) program is designed to fill 
our pipeline of future executives in a way that is equitable and reflective of the 
workforce population. It gives high-performing women, starting at the manager 
level, the opportunity to define and bolster their career aspirations through 
facilitators, speakers and exposure opportunities to senior leadership.
Creating an inclusive workplace
Disrupt bias, drive inclusion initiative
To date, we’ve trained our Executive Committee members and over 800 of our 
hiring leaders around the United States on unconscious bias, with plans to 
expand across the enterprise in 2021. Training includes how unconscious bias 
affects talent decisions and how it can be minimized by modeling inclusive 
behaviors. In addition, training on inclusive leadership and allyship was provided 
to 480 leaders; with another 750 leaders receiving lean-in training during 
crisis. During 2020, ADP created an enterprise taskforce focused on hiring, 
development, promotion and pay retention for people of color.35%
Female  
Representation23%
Minority 
Representation
ACTIVE BRGs IN 2019 INCLUDED:
Thrive (Disabilities)
Adelante (Hispanic)
A.S.I.A (Asian)
Cultivate (Black/African-American)
PRIDE (LGBTQ)
Military Strong (Military)
Inspire (Innovation)
Generations (Multigenerational)
iWIN (International Women’s Inclusion Network)
• WiSL (Women in Sales Leadership)
• Empower (Women in Technology)
Women in Leadership (Executive Women)2022 U.S. EXECUTIVE GOALSGOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  20Fair and equal hiring practices
To help fill the recruiting pipeline with culturally diverse candidates, ADP  
continues to build and renew partnerships with Historically Black Colleges and 
Universities (HBCU), Hispanic Serving Institutions, and other diverse campuses 
around the country. Further, ADP works with community partnerships to 
increase our pipeline in underserved communities for roles that do not require  
a college degree.
Hiring for success
Our Talent, Performance and Acceleration team launched Hiring for Success —  
a new training course designed to teach managers how to interview the right 
way. It reinforces the messages of unconscious bias training and recommends 
diverse interview panels as best practice for each open requisition.
Diverse slates and panels
As we strive for greater gender diversity globally and greater ethnic 
representation within the U.S., ADP is committed to leveraging best-in-class 
strategies to achieve our goals. Beginning in 2020, to mitigate the risk of 
similarity bias that may favor those who think, act, or look like the hiring 
manager, we rely on diverse interview panels and diverse slates. We still 
select the most qualified candidate for each role, but these tools minimize 
bias and systemic barriers for women, people of color and other historically 
marginalized or underrepresented groups including people with disabilities, 
LGBTQ+, and Veterans.Supporting working mothers
In 2020, ADP was named one of the 100 Best Companies to work for by 
Working Mother® Magazine for the fourth time.
Doing our part to support “pay equity”
During the early stages of COVID-19, the global economy started to shrink due 
to business closures and a decrease in consumer spending. As the economy 
began to recover, wages started to increase back to pre-COVID levels. However, 
wages did not increase evenly across demographics. In a recently published 
article from the ADP Institute, it became clear that women’s wages were not 
increasing at the same rate as men’s wages.
At ADP, we are deeply committed to fair and equitable pay as it is critical to 
creating an inclusive and engaging culture to nurture and develop all associates 
so they can reach their full potential. We make pay decisions based on skills,  
job-related experience, the market value of the job, and performance.
As of July 2018, ADP took a proactive stance in no longer asking candidates for 
prior pay history anywhere in the U.S., not just where legislation to ban salary 
history has been enacted. We also implemented the salary history ban in Canada 
in 2019, and we continue to work with our colleagues outside of the U.S. and 
Canada to examine the feasibility of expanding this practice globally.
We also continue to build on our focus on global pay equity gap and better 
leadership representation of women globally and underrepresented groups in 
the U.S.
GOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  21Promoting multicultural women
ADP is especially proud of our programs and policies that enable us to  
successfully recruit, retain and professionally advance multicultural women.  
We sponsor Cultivate, our African American and Black Business Resource 
Group, and have been a proud host of the annual Black Enterprise Women of 
Power Summit for six years. Each year, our businesses sponsor approximately 
40 African American women leaders to participate. In addition to the Summit, 
ADP organizes a follow up Cultivate Y our Career leadership development event 
for the current-year summit cohort, as well as members of Cultivate, designed 
to advance multicultural talent.
Men as allies
Spearheaded by an Executive Committee member with a deep commitment to 
gender parity, ADP launched its Men as Allies program in late 2019. Key program 
goals are to engage men by including their voices in D&I and equity solutions, 
and to create a global sponsorship network of male influencers committed to 
advancing women and minorities in leadership. In early 2020, a first focus area 
was identified: advocate for and sponsor high-performing women of color at the 
Manager level and help them get promoted to Director-level roles. Our Men as 
Allies network supports programs like Advancing Women in Leadership in  
providing career insights, advocacy and sponsorship.LGBTQ inclusion
All-inclusive benefits
With the passage of the marriage equality act, companies started giving benefits 
to married LGBTQ couples. At ADP, we go further. Our benefits are all-inclusive 
and awarded to any domestic partner—a major milestone development in 2019.
Human Rights Campaign
In 2020, for the twelfth consecutive year, ADP received a 100 percent rating  
in the Human Rights Campaign (HRC) Corporate Equality Index (CEI), which 
annually rates large U.S. employers based on their policies and practices  
pertaining to LGBTQ employees.
We proudly hire veterans
ADP highly values the unique perspectives, dedication, adaptability, and 
leadership qualities veterans bring to the table. We strive to give them and 
their spouses a career they can be proud of. We designed several initiatives 
to attract veterans to ADP, ease them into their new positions and help them 
succeed. We have a dedicated veterans careers page, which was enhanced with 
a Military Occupational Specialty (MOS) translator in 2019. Now, candidates 
can enter their MOS, and the system will suggest positions best suited to their 
profile. We also actively look for veteran candidates as part of our campus 
recruiting program. Given ADP’s close proximity of OneADP locations to military 
installations (El Paso – Ft. Bliss, Norfolk – Norfolk Naval Station, Augusta – Ft. 
Gordon, Tempe – Luke Air Force Base, and Louisville – Ft. Knox), we have a very 
close relationship with our local military bases and non-profit organizations who 
assist transitioning service members to find new careers.Kristofer, Sr Inside Sales Rep
Leading our Veteran BRG makes my work at ADP 
even better. I’m excelling at my core position and  
I have something else very special inside ADP –  
a group that I can go with a meaningful shared  
purpose. Through community events, we are  
able to help other Veterans who are not yet  
transitioned or maybe having a hard time.  
Giving back in this way is important for me.
I love ADP. The company has treated me so well 
not only personally but professionally, all the way 
around. We’re encouraged to grow, to fly. We can 
be ourselves. And, if we need help, there is always 
someone here to help you. We’re a family.
GOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  22Our business resource group for veterans, “Military Strong & Allies,” provides 
veterans with invaluable networking opportunities as well as opportunities to 
continue to serve their communities. In 2019, the BRG also participated in BRG 
Connect. Newly hired veterans, who are members of our military resource group, 
can now formally be matched with an experienced associate from our existing 
military population or others from across ADP. The mentor will assist them 
with their specific needs as they transition to a corporate job. In addition to our 
unique company culture, we believe mentoring has helped ADP maintain a very 
low 13.6% voluntary turnover rate for our veteran population within the United 
States in 2019.
Hiring veterans is only one way that ADP supports veterans. We also partner 
closely with non-profit organizations that assist this community. One example 
is FourBlock, a non-profit that works with student veterans who are exploring 
future career options. ADP is also an important partner to the Johnny Mac 
Soldiers Fund, which honors military service and sacrifice by providing  
scholarships to veterans and military family members, especially to children  
of our nation’s fallen or disabled. Within the last year, ADP has begun a 
partnership with Bunker Labs, an organization committed to helping veterans 
start their own businesses. As part of our partnership, we have sponsored 
and hosted events and provided Human Capital Management (HCM) education 
to veteran business owners. In addition, we also provide discounts for ADP 
HCM solutions to the businesses working with Bunker Labs. We have won 
several awards for our supplier diversity program’s support of veteran owned 
businesses, including a 2020 Military Friendly Supplier Diversity Award.
To learn more about how we make veterans feel welcome, and awards we have 
received for these efforts, please visit our veterans website.Diversity Partnerships
ADP builds and nurtures partnerships with diverse external organizations that 
encourage action, learning, and collaboration. External partners are leveraged by 
our ADP BRGs, Executive Sponsors and Diversity Champions.
ADP has external diversity partnerships with 16 different organizations,  
across all diversity groups. The partnerships offer resume databases, events  
and networking opportunities/job boards.
Alongside our robust diversity and inclusion strategy, we leverage partnerships 
with research and benchmark organizations to establish best practices and 
influence the evolution of diversity, equity and inclusion.I had the opportunity and honor to  
organize events advancing gender  
equality and the empowerment of 
women, on topics such as domestic 
violence and fighting breast cancer, in 
partnership with other Diversity groups. 
I am very proud to work for a company 
in which gender equity is encouraged. 
Hearing from employees and even from 
clients that we are helping change the 
lives of girls and women is so gratifying. 
We are definitely stronger together.”
Paula, Member of IWIN, BrazilGOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  23Great companies are built by great people. Our talent strategy aims at attracting and retaining 
ambitious, passionate and overall top talent to continue to grow our diverse and unique culture. 
The wide range of benefits, flexible work options and health and wellness programs we offer  
contribute to an environment where all our associates add to our success and live their best life.
At ADP since 1988
Internship programs
To fill our pipeline with the best and brightest young talent, we have internship programs enterprise-wide globally.  
By immersing students into ADP’s culture, we can identify mutual fits with an end goal of full-time employment after 
graduation. In the United States, we also travel to campuses across the country to meet students who are sharp, creative, 
driven and friendly. Find out more on our website.
Great companies are made by great people
Our collaborative culture, leadership that provides purpose, and the direction and inspiration of our associates, who live 
and breathe our ADP values, allow us to be an employer of choice year after year. With just shy of 21,000 new associates 
globally, 2019 was our biggest hiring volume year yet. During FY 2020, ADP Associates in the U.S. had an average tenure 
of 7 years, well above the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics average of 4.1 years.Talent Acquisition and Retention
Sue, Technical Editor, New Jersey
Mina, Marketing Analyst“ My amazing journey at ADP began 32 years ago! Since then, I’ve held five  
positions in five different organizations, including IT, Marketing, and Sales, and 
earned a bachelor’s degree and two certifications. ADP offers so much in terms 
of growth and encourages success in all forms. They hire and retain the best 
associates, which in turn creates the great work environment we’ve come to 
know. Y ou can always expect to feel respected, valued, and important here.”“I had such an incredible intern experience at ADP, from the work that I was doing 
to my team. Being able to collaborate with them and truly have an impact on the 
business unit I was working on really made me feel important and wanted. I chose 
to stay here because I feel important at ADP. When you’re looking for a job it’s 
hard to find a corporation and a set of people that make you feel like you matter.”12.6%
Voluntary associate turnover rate
(As of June 30, 2020)GOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  24Benefits
Our associates receive a competitive benefits package, intended to help them 
enjoy physical, emotional and financial well-being and be productive members 
of their teams. While exact benefits vary by employee and region, they typically 
include health care coverage, a 401(k) plan with company matching contributions, 
free wellness services, tuition reimbursement, employee assistance programs and 
more. We particularly emphasize benefits that support our associates’ individual 
and family needs (parental leave, adoption/fertility benefits and programs 
to support caregivers). We constantly update our programs according to our 
associates’ needs. In 2019, we offered the following new or enhanced benefits:
•  Paid Parental Leave – We expanded benefits for US associates by an additional 
2 weeks providing mothers and fathers up to 4 weeks of paid parental leave. 
This is separate from traditional leave for mothers
•  Back-up Child Care and Adult Care – We introduced a program through Bright 
Horizons where an associate could receive up to 10 days of back-up care per 
year at centers for well children, or in-home care for well or mildly ill children 
and in-home adult and elder care
•  Student Loan Repayment Program – We offered a program through Tuition.io 
where eligible associates could receive a $50 contribution each month from 
ADP towards their own student loan debt or their child’s student loan debt,  
for up to 4 years
In addition, we expanded benefits eligibility to include same-sex and opposite-sex 
domestic partners for medical, dental, vision, Group Universal Life, Group Legal, 
Critical Illness and ADP’s Voluntary Wellness Program. So, although those benefits 
are not new, they are new to a portion of ADP’s population and their dependents.
Perks, perks and more perks
Dental Medical Life 
InsuranceCareer 
DevelopmentCommuter 
Savings
Tuition 
ReimbursementMentoring ADP Federal 
Credit UnionVision Match 401K
Charitable 
Contribution 
MatchEmployee Stock 
Purchase PlanHome & Auto 
Insurance Legal Service 
PlansAnnual Flu 
Immunization 
Program
Holidays, Personal 
Days, VacationPaid Volunteer 
Time OffCorporate 
DiscountsWellness 
OfferingsGOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  25Flexible work options
ADP empowers its associates to create a solid work-life balance. We provide 
a comprehensive set of programs, practices, activities and resources to help 
associates choose productive and flexible work management solutions that are 
best for them, ADP and our clients. This includes flexible scheduling, flexible 
locations and in-house resources such as day care centers.
During these uncertain times, working remotely while staying connected is 
more important now than ever before. We leverage a suite of collaboration tools 
such as WebEx to keep our global workforce connected. ADP is proud of the 
tools and methods we provide to our associates, so that they can continue their 
important work despite current events.
ADP was again recognized in 2019 as one of the Top 100 Companies for remote, 
part-time and flexible jobs by Flexjobs.com. To see all of our awards and  
recognitions, please visit our website 
myMoment Recognition Program
myMoment gives associates the opportunity to say thanks to each other and 
recognize those who go above and beyond to make ADP a great company. This 
platform is social, mobile and global. It lets associates nominate others, redeem 
rewards and stay connected through the social awards news feed — all accessible 
on the myMoment homepage and by mobile devices.
Safety, health and wellness
ADP has a long tradition of promoting health, wellness and safety within our 
culture and embracing it as part of our corporate identity. Our aim is to provide 
a holistic approach to the needs of our associates by offering programs that 
are physically and mentally beneficial, help them pursue a healthy lifestyle and 
reduce absenteeism and lost time due to injuries.Our health and safety efforts include:
• a company-wide health and safety manual and website
• safety education and training offered on our risk management website
• regular committee reviews of health and safety procedures
•  a wellness program that allows associates to earn points and rewards for  
completing various wellness activities
Beyond our medical plans, initiatives around physical and mental health vary 
across regions, but can include:
Physical wellness
• personal health checks
• annual sports fests
• regular exercise classes
• nutrition and fitness expert visits offering free consultation and programs
•  a “Benefits Caravan” where associates can receive free consultations from 
physicians from different fields of expertise
• a job bicycle leasing program
Mental wellness
• employee assistance programs
•  free therapy sessions to associates who require counselling and mental  
health assistance
• mindfulness, massages and yoga classes
•  year-round CSR program that allows associates to volunteer and  
donate to charitable causes close to their heart.
ADP sent nearly its entire workforce (~58,000) to 
work from home within one week in mid-March — all 
but essential workers. This was no small feat but was 
accomplished with relative efficiency and ease. Since 
the pandemic began, ADP’s Executive Committee has 
sent out weekly messages to all global associates, 
updating them on the most current information and 
reassuring everyone that the company has done all it 
can to protect their health and safety.GOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  26The ability to offer insightful expertise to our clients and associates is one of our core values.  
Our associates are encouraged to challenge themselves, share their strengths, take risks, and find 
community. We believe in investment in team members to teach skills necessary to succeed and 
grow their careers.
The ADP talent journey begins with onboarding supported by extensive training and mentorship. Associates are  
encouraged to get to know our culture by learning about our diversity and inclusion focus and our “Integrity is Everything” 
approach. To further enhance performance and career development, ADP associates have access to a wide range of 
professional and functional skills training well beyond their on-boarding period. All associates at ADP are also encouraged 
to join Business Resource Group communities where they can take advantage of mentoring programs, learning events, and 
even safely experiment with leadership skills as a local chapter leader. We also build leadership capabilities for current and 
future leaders with targeted and inclusive leadership development programs. At ADP, we focus on continuously improving 
our leadership development offerings to meet evolving business needs including a current focus on digital skills and our 
transformation into a strength-based organization.
ADP’s learning organization is a hybrid model, with three main divisions of learning:
1. Leadership Development and Performance
2. Enterprise learning
3. Worldwide Sales Operation Learning and Leadership
Career and Talent Development
We know that career growth and development are top engagement drivers for our associates. ADP’s strategy is to enable 
our associates to move forward towards accomplishments that excite and energize them while simultaneously elevating 
the company.
As a strengths-based organization, ADP believes all associates have unique strengths and capacity to grow. We focus our 
development conversations on how associates can best leverage their strengths. During regular check-ins in our StandOut Training And Development
Sonia, Inside Sales Manager
Sonia is an inside sales manager at ADP, where 
she wears many hats and performs varying 
roles. She says, “Before ADP, I worked for a local 
non-profit. I had never worked in sales before, 
so when I applied to ADP, I was nervous that I 
wouldn’t get the job or be a good fit because of 
my lack of experience. I’m very glad ADP thought 
differently! ADP is big on training, too, so when I 
first started I got extensive live/virtual training. I 
was also assigned my own personal mentor. I love 
that ADP gives us all of the necessary tools to 
be successful.”
GOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  27platform, managers and associates connect weekly about work priorities, how 
work activities make associates feel, and how managers can remove obstacles 
and barriers to work progress.
All ADP associates can access development resources and guidance through 
our internal myCareer site. Grounded in a clear Career Growth & Development 
(CG&D) philosophy and framework, our CareerDriver platform provides a simple 
access point based on where an individual is in their unique career journey. 
Further meeting associates where they are, the learning resources are varied – 
written guidance and articles; interactive worksheets; videos, recordings and 
webinars; plus 10 different instructor-led career courses offered monthly. We 
encourage associates to look for development experiences in addition to formal 
learning. These can include (but aren’t limited to): cross-functional exposure, 
leadership roles in Business Resource Groups, taking on additional responsibilities 
and/or stretch assignments.
Our professional skills program was enhanced through on-demand and  
self-paced learning paths on topics such as business acumen, client service, 
time management, teamwork and collaboration, communication and career 
management.
Twice a year we put on our CG&D Rally, a 1-hour live event broadcast globally to 
all associates. In 2020, our spring Rally was cancelled due to the pandemic. We 
more than made up for that in August, putting together our first ever 24-hour 
CG&D Rally – with 2 live broadcasts featuring our CEO, CHRO and Head of ADP 
Research Institute – as well as instructor-led career courses around the clock 
and on-demand video content from our business units, functions and BRGs.
In addition to regular manager/associate discussions, ADP also conducts formal 
talent planning conversations. Called Talent Touchpoints, these organizational 
conversations focus on associates who need new experiences or roles to further 
develop their careers. The goal of these discussions is to define and agree on Salvador, Tech Support Analyst
“It was not until StandOut arrived that I felt 
excited about HOW to approach my growth and 
development at ADP. I struggled at my previous 
jobs because I just kept going for what I thought 
was a move up due to a raise in pay or a higher 
role, instead of looking to find a role that played 
to my strengths and gave me the opportunity to 
grow naturally.
Now I am hopeful about my career and have seen 
the direct results of the program with a move to a 
new role, which I enjoy more every day.”Carol, Senior Director, Leadership Development and Talent 
Development Operations
As a leader, StandOut has totally transformed 
the way I approach the work aligned to each team 
member. Instead of assigning work by role, I assign 
the work the team needs to get done according to 
each team member’s strengths. My team is happier 
and more fully engaged as a result of this.
GOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  28next steps which may include a new role, assignment of a mentor, or providing an individual with a stretch assignment. 
We leverage an ADP created HR application called T3 to digitize discussion data to drive accountability and connect needs 
across the organization.
Accelerating performance through StandOut
StandOut powered by ADP is an innovative talent engagement and activation platform. We started deploying it at our own 
company in 2018. Less than two years later, our global workforce has been immersed in this new strength-based approach 
to talent and performance management - with huge success. The tool is built on an initial strength assessment of each team 
member, supported by weekly check-ins, identifying activities associates love and loathe. This information allows our leaders 
to utilize the different strength profiles of their team members more effectively and provide more targeted coaching. Our 
associates benefit through an increased understanding of their talents and interests, and productive interactions with their 
managers, which also helps them identify learning and career growth opportunities. In addition, the tool regularly provides 
targeted tips both to the associate and their manager based on individual strength profiles.
StandOut has also changed annual performance reviews at ADP. Instead of one annual review and rating, we hold quarterly 
debrief conversations, informed by regular, brief performance assessments that allow managers to quickly evaluate their 
team members’ performance. The platform allows us to eliminate cascading goals and formal performance rating calibration 
while maintaining our Pay for Performance culture.
We find that StandOut adoption is positively associated with employee engagement and commitment to ADP.
We also conduct an annual culture survey, myVoice, which provides another opportunity for our associates to share their 
opinions on important topics, including ethics, social responsibility, innovation and leadership. Particularly during the 
challenging events of 2020, it was extremely important to hear our associates’ thoughts on working at ADP. The results 
were overwhelmingly positive, with an overall culture score of 81% favorable, reflecting an increase of 6% over the prior 
year. In addition, during 2020, we were delighted to learn that Comparably ranked overall culture at ADP as an A+. 
In addition, career development opportunities include:
• Skill-building programs
• Leadership development programs
• Development and cross–business unit exposure
•  Knowledge Pay programs offering financial incentives for specific certifications
• Leadership roles in Business Resource GroupsOnboarding for 
Excellence
Guide yourself 
through an exciting 
time at ADP  
with interactive 
activities and help 
from your team 
and mentor.Professional 
Skills
Learn more and 
what it takes 
for your role and 
to succeed in 
a professional 
environment.Role Specific 
Training
Spruce up your 
skills and domain 
expertise to 
ensure you’re 
always on top.Career  
Pathing
Own your career 
and take advantage 
to your future 
opportunities with 
internal resources 
available at ADP 
associates.GOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  29Skill Builders is part of our continuous learning program. Led by high-performing 
ADP employees, it helps our associates round out their personal brand, and 
enables networking and shared experiences across business units. Active topics 
include emotional intelligence, Managers’ Worst Nightmares and Espanol Para Ti.
Leadership development
We want our leaders to use their individual strengths to lead successfully, 
while being grounded in ADP’s Leadership Priorities: Act Like an Owner, Make 
the Client your North Star, and Always Listen to Associates.
Our newly integrated leadership development strategy applies to “exploring 
leadership” all the way through to Executives and is based on three core 
principles:
•  creating development journeys vs. single training events to foster behavioral 
change
•  experiential activities and simulations of real-life relevant situations to model 
decision-making and engaging candidates’ existing strengths
•  using learning measurement theory and technology to provide performance 
and behavior change insights
As an example, we reimagined our Leader of Leaders program from a three-day 
event to a 6 week journey for Leader of Leaders. This learning experience is 
designed to help leaders build self-awareness, strong internal relationships, 
establish a leadership model that is unique to their strengths, and achieve  
better decision-making using systems thinking.Enterprise Learning
Enterprise Learning (EL) is the functional learning and performance division  
at ADP. We focus on developing associate capability through product and skills 
training and performance support. We also provide clients with training and  
performance support to facilitate their ability to gain full value from our  
products. Thus, EL congruently supports and complements the learning needs  
of internal associates, business partners (e.g., those integrating their products 
into ours), and clients while staying true to our mission of helping learners 
thrive as products, technologies, and business practices transform.
Redesigning training with AI
In 2019, we invested in a robotic process automation (RPA) for our Enterprise 
Learning program. This process took tasks that traditionally required manual 
input, and automated them, saving 11,336 hours of work.
We optimize personalized, modern learning experiences and outcomes 
throughout ADP by leveraging technology, data, design, and talent to ensure 
our programs are engaging, insightful, and impactful. In part, this is achieved 
through our investments in digitized learning solutions that help associates and 
clients do their jobs efficiently and effectively, including (but not limited to):
•  NextGen knowledge management — This online knowledge base houses 
information that helps associates service clients. It uses modern authoring 
techniques and advanced search technology to answer queries with relevant 
and fast search results in the moment of need, with content that is easy to 
scan and consume.Success Story: Matt, Director Learning Innovation  
and Analytics:
Matt was named among Training magazine’s top 
5 emerging training leaders for 2019. Through his 
role, Matt helped deliver two priority initiatives 
for ADP’s Enterprise Learning:
•  Recommended adding embedded learning to 
select ADP products, to provide click-by-click 
training for clients, directly in the workflow to 
reduce disruptions
•  Helped design and manage the implementation 
of learning-impact studies that EL now uses to 
quantify the impact of our training efforts on  
client and associate experiencesGOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  30•  In-product learning — We embed guided walk-thrus within ADP’s products 
that provide instructional support to clients and associates in-the-flow of 
work, thus reducing effort while affording them the opportunity to learn how 
to get optimal use out of our products while completing their day-to-day tasks. 
These walk-thrus can be added or updated quickly, so we can deliver new 
instruction whenever there are new technologies or legislative changes.
•  Learning Management System (LMS) — This system is our library for the 
virtual, on-demand training courses that we design, deliver, and manage for 
associates (myLink2Learn) and clients (myLearning@ADP) alike, providing 
instruction on everything from product knowledge to soft and technical skills.
We also support the learning needs of associates through instructor led training 
in both classroom and virtual environments. One example is our Learning Café, 
which offers virtual live and on demand mini-learning experiences to all  
associates quarterly with in-person sessions being offered on an as-needed 
basis at ADP locations. The virtual and in-person sessions cover a wide range of 
upskilling topics, including product knowledge, process, tools, technology, and 
interpersonal skills. Course offerings change each quarter and are selected by 
determining what topics the business needs associates to know and which  
topics associates have asked that we offer. The Learning Café is fully voluntary 
and its growing in popularity. In fact, more than 3,000 associates attended 
trainings offered during our last 2-day event, proving that associates have a 
desire to opt-in.
Worldwide Sales Operation Learning and Leadership
ADP pays special attention to our client facing sales organization in regard to 
on-boarding, tenured and leadership training. We support over 9,000 Sales  
associates comprised of direct sales, sales leaders and sales support.Our focus on Modern Sales includes an emphasis on ethical selling including a 
diverse and inclusive approach to our buyer personas, roles, industry and market 
needs. We believe this creates a sales force that can fit ADP’s solutions to each 
unique buyer for a positive and productive future for all.
With new salespeople added to ADP’s sales teams each year representing ADP 
in over 140 countries, each sales associate experiences a blended on-boarding 
learning involving their manager, mentor, peers and sales learning consultants, 
engaged with digital self-paced and instructor-led coaching and classes.
Classes average between 160-240 hours for on-boarding training, with the 
average length to first sales between 4-12 weeks, depending on the role and 
buying cycle of the targeted market.
By maximizing data driven sales, modern tools and a robust technology stack, 
ADP places huge emphasis on sales training and leadership training. Sales 
Leadership starts when our successful salespeople mentor their first peer. 
Entering a multifaceted leadership development program, intertwined with 
ADP Enterprise Learning’s Career Growth planning, our sales leaders value the 
unique characteristics of each of their team members. From the formal class 
work for developing leaders, new leaders and executive leaders, they engage in 
role supportive, timely and relevant On-Demand classes, Connection calls and 
Leadership Mentoring sessions to fine tune their leadership skills.
With a strong emphasis on promoting great talent within ADP, our commitment 
to learning and development is a keystone to ADP’s future success. By making 
significant and impactful connections with our associates and partner s, and 
employing effective and appropriate communication, we create a dynamic team 
culture that will drive performance.GOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  31• World’s Most Admired Companies (2006–2020) – Fortune Magazine
• 100% Corporate Equality Index Rating (2009-2020) – Human Rights Campaign Foundation
• Bloomberg Gender Equality Index (2018-2020) – Bloomberg
• America’s Best Employers for Diversity (2018-2020) – Forbes Magazine
• Top 50 Companies for Diversity (2016-2020) – DiversityInc® Magazine
• 100 Best Companies (2016, 2018-2020) – Working Mother® Magazine
• Best Companies for Multicultural Women (2016–2020) – Working Mother® Magazine• Diversity Best Practices Inclusion Index - Working Mother® Magazine
• Corporate Inclusion Index (2016 - 2020) – Hispanic Association on Corporate Responsibility (HACR)
• Top 100 Companies for remote, part-time and flexible jobs (2018-2020) – flexjobs.com
• Training Top 125 (Top Companies for Training, 2011–2019) – Training Magazine
• Top 10 Companies for Working Mothers India (2018) – Working Mother® Magazine and AVTAR
• 50 Best Companies for Diversity (2016-2018) – Black Enterprise® Magazine
For more information about awards and recognition, visit our website.RecognitionsGOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
Community
The heart of our business is centered around acting responsibly. ADP  
is only as strong as the communities in which we operate. By elevating  
our communities, we support vital causes and services, and construct a 
foundation for our business to continue thriving.
•  32GOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  33
CSR — Month  
of CaringThe world of work relies on people having the tools, environment, 
and opportunity to do their best work. At ADP, we proudly share 
our dedication to unlocking potential for our clients, our people, 
and our global communities.
Through our technology expertise, volunteerism, charitable giving, and a 
growing commitment to diverse suppliers, ADP is committed to giving back to 
communities where we live, work and conduct business. With the rise of recent 
social unrest across the US, we are now more committed than ever to pursuing 
inclusive philanthropic efforts.
ADP Foundation
The ADP Foundation is the center of our corporate social responsibility (CSR) 
initiatives. It magnifies the impact of associate giving to causes that align with 
our values and CSR focus areas.
Services provided by the Foundation include:
• Oversight of ADP Cares, our global associate hardship fund
• Donation processing and matching program
• Review/approval of grant requests from charitable organizations
• Determination of eligible charitable organizations and volunteer options
• Fundraising for eligible charitable organizationsPhilanthropy and Volunteering
TOTAL VOLUNTEER HOURS ACROSS THE US:
In 2019 our associates volunteered 51,914 hours,  
or 2,163 days of their time to non-profits in the USGOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  34Supplier Diversity
ADP is committed to extending the shared values that diverse suppliers bring to 
our business. We understand that creating partnerships with diverse suppliers 
is not only the right thing to do; it gives us a powerful business advantage.
Our Supplier Diversity Program supports
• Woman-owned business enterprises
• Minority-owned business enterprises
• Veteran-owned business enterprises
• Disabled-owned business enterprises
• LGBTQ+-owned business enterprises
• Small disadvantaged business enterprises
• Small business enterprises
Making progress
ADP’s Supplier Diversity Program continues to grow with proven success.  
Our FY 2020 achievements include:
• Overall FY 2020 total: $340.7M
• 14% of overall procurement spend with diverse suppliers
• 40% increase in spend with African American owned businesses
• 34% increase in spend with Hispanic American owned businesses
• 23% increase in contingent staffing spend
• $1.3M in savings attributed to using diverse suppliers
Many small businesses are diverse businesses—some of which are our clients. 
Supplier mentorship at ADP features one-on-one work, group discussions and 
summits to help new and existing suppliers improve their business acumen, 
especially with large corporations.Looking ahead
We are pleased with the progress we’ve made and want to keep moving the  
needle. Current initiatives include:
•  Increasing Minority, Veteran, and LGBTQ+ spend by finding opportunities with 
ADP business stakeholders
• Training and mentorship for new and existing suppliers
•  Partnering with local, regional, and national organizations that support  
supplier diversity
COVID-19 has caused significant disruptions to the global supply chain,  
 negatively impacting many small businesses. Some small businesses saw  
their revenue stream disappear; others pivoted to expand services to support 
COVID-19 relief. During these trying times ADP has relied on some of our 
diverse suppliers to help support and provide Personal Protective Equipment 
(PPE) and other needed essentials to allow ADP associates to work from home 
and safely return to the office successfully. We have offered payment term 
adjustments to help get our diverse suppliers paid more quickly so they can  
continue to run their day-to-day operations.ADP thanks all of its healthcare clients and all 
those who provided unwavering support and  
services during the global pandemic.
050100150200250300350
2020 2019 2018 FY 2020 FY 2019 FY 2018$98.7 $94.9$335.7$340.7
$319.3
$105.1
$214.2$240.8$242.0Supplier Diversity
Tier 1 — direct spend with diverse suppliers.
Tier 2 — indirect spend with diverse suppliers.GOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  35Continuing our mission to support the communities where we live and work, ADP is committed to making the world a better  
place. To help make this a reality, we have mapped our most significant philanthropic efforts against three of the United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to show how our global offices and teams have found unique ways to contribute to their 
local communities. Our most notable contributions are around access to education, creating sustainable cities and championing  
gender equality. Here is how we’re working to make a difference:
SDG 4: Quality Education
ADP values the education of our associates as well as those in our communities. 
Here is how we are contributing to the individual targets for SDG4:
4.1  Providing quality primary and secondary 
education
•  MIDAS – Making an Impactful Difference at School 
•  Founded in 2009, our MIDAS program seeks to bring quality education and 
learning opportunities to disadvantaged youth in India.
•  ONE ADP Educational Partnerships 
•  We partner with local elementary schools and colleges to host classes on 
topics including STEM, management, human resources and diversity &  
inclusion programs.
4.4 Providing and developing relevant job skills
•   Internship programs 
•  We have a variety of internship programs at over 12 universities and colleges 
around the world that help students prepare for a career in HCM.•  Global product and technology programs 
•  The HCM Academy programs help drive innovation and develop the pipeline 
for the next generation of technology leaders.
4.5  Eliminate gender disparities in education and 
ensure equal access to all levels of education
•  Women in Business program 
•  Our Women in Business program, which can be found at multiple colleges  
and universities, encourages and develops women in the traditionally 
male-dominant business sector.
4.6  Promoting literacy and numeracy for youth  
and adults
•  Book drives for local schools 
•  Our colleagues in Tunisia organized a book drive for the benefit of a local 
primary school. In addition, they provided school supplies to help children in 
disadvantaged families. The team even built a new library for the students, 
all from scratch!We Support Sustainable Development Goals Around the World
GOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  36SDG 11: Sustainable cities and communities
We are proud of our efforts to reduce our environmental footprint, ensure 
everyone is respected and valued, and encourage new behaviors that benefit 
the individual and their community.
11.2 Safe, accessible, sustainable transportation
•  Revised air travel policy 
•  Early in 2020, we introduced our revised air travel policy. The policy covers 
specific actions travelers can take to minimize their footprint as well as  
partnered airlines that utilize fuel efficient fleets.
11.4 Safeguarding the world’s cultures and heritages
•  Cultural business resource groups 
•  We are proud of our extensive selection of business resource groups. While 
there are many types, we have multiple BRGs built around different cultures 
from around the world. These BRGs help bridge cultural gaps, promote each 
culture individually, and provides a safe space for its participants.
11.6 Reduce environmental impacts per capita
•  Sustainable cafeteria utensils 
•  Wherever possible, our cafeterias replaced traditional plastic cutlery and 
utensils with biodegradable alternatives that get composted after use, 
instead of heading to a landfill.
•  Phase-out Styrofoam 
•  We have removed all Styrofoam cups and containers and replaced them with 
reusable or biodegradable alternatives.
SDG 5: Gender equality
At ADP, we believe diversity and inclusion programs are crucial resources for 
the company, not requirements on a checklist. To attract talented and diverse individuals, we extend our gender equality efforts to transgendered individuals 
and gender-non-conforming persons, instead of focusing on the traditional 
male-female paradigm that’s currently present in the SDG verbiage. This is not 
only the moral thing to do, it’s good for our business.
5.1 End all forms of discrimination against  
marginalized genders
•  Patterns of unconscious bias training 
•  Our recruiters are trained and equipped to uncover their individual unconscious 
biases during the hiring process. By understanding diversity and inclusion 
best-practices as well as utilizing appropriate tools, unconscious bias can be 
diminished in hiring procedures.
5.4 Recognize and value unpaid domestic work
•  Parental leave policies 
•  We provide more time off for new parents than the industry average,  
offered to fathers and mothers. We believe it is crucial to the longevity  
of our associates’ tenure to support new parents as much as possible.
•  Childcare programs 
• At certain locations, we provide onsite childcare for our associates.
5.5 Equal opportunities for leadership positions
•  Promoting multicultural women 
•  We are especially proud of our programs that help us recruit, retain, and 
advance multicultural women. We do this through multiple BRGs and  
other initiatives.
•  Women in sales leadership BRG 
•  A business resource group dedicated to fostering women as leaders in  
sales positions
•  Women in executive leadership BRG 
•  Another business resource group dedicated to fostering women as leaders in 
executive positions5.6 Universal sexual and reproductive health access
•  Health insurance packages 
•  Our comprehensive health insurance package includes fertility management 
and eligible employees can select a medical plan that provides services for 
medically necessary, transition-related care.
•  Parental leave policies 
• We provide our associates with competitive parental leave times.
5.A Reforms for economic equality
•  Company demographics 
•  Through insightful data analytics, ADP tracks hiring and advancement trends 
across associate demographics, creating programs to improve metrics.
5.B Enable and promote empowerment through I.T.
•  Pay Equity Storyboard 
• A virtual tool we designed to uncover inequitable payment for the same job
•  Empower BRG 
•  Our women in technology BRG, providing training and guidance to women 
seeking to advance their career in technology
•  Advancing women in S.T.E.M. 
•  With women being under-represented in STEM fields, we launched numerous 
initiatives and programs to encourage and provide opportunities for women 
looking to enter the field
5.C Enforceable legislation for gender equality
•  Anti-harassment policies 
• ADP has a zero tolerance policy for harassmentGOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
Environment
At ADP, environmental sustainability and stewardship are integral to both 
our corporate social responsibility program and our business strategy. We are 
continuously evaluating which environmental issues are most relevant to our 
business and offer opportunities for us to make a purposeful impact. We also 
believe that creating sustainable products and streamlining our operations 
drives efficiency, innovation and ultimately, long-term value-creation.
•  37GOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  38The ADP GoGreen logo has been replaced with our new BEGreen identifier. This icon appears on all ADP projects globally 
that have a significant environmental component. This not only translates to facility efficiency and clean-up related  
projects, it applies to all efforts, such as curbing the volume of on-site printing, turning off electronics, savings on travel, 
and offering digital services to our customers.
Whether the effort is energy conservation, printing with a conscious, product development, recycling, donations or  
emissions diversion, this new identifier will alert readers to the fact that this project, event, or ADP service, is making  
a mindful effort to BEGreen.
Increasing energy efficiency and reducing greenhouse gas emissions associated with our operations 
are central goals for our environmental sustainability program. ADP’s main sources of greenhouse 
gas emissions come from our offices and data centers, and we are on track to reach our current 
goal to reduce emissions by 10% by the end of calendar year 2020 in the United States through 
investments in efficiency and conservation.BEGreen for environmental communications
Energy and greenhouse gas reductionsClimate change and ADP
Climate change is an increasingly urgent topic that could have significant impacts on our business, and the world. These 
impacts from climate change include weather-related events interrupting business operations, supply chain disruptions, 
disruptions to our clients’ businesses and potential regulatory changes. Our ability to anticipate and mitigate these 
impacts has clear implications for our business.
Energy conservation
Throughout 2019, ADP invested in energy reduction initiatives that improved efficiency, reduced energy consumption and 
decreased our emissions. Some examples include installing LED lighting, implementing new Building Management Systems 
(BMS) to increase building efficiency, and a revised travel policy. In total, our conservation efforts are estimated to have 
reduced our 2019 electricity consumption by about 3 million kilowatt hours, and will continue to reduce our annual  
consumption by 5 million kilowatt hours. ADP annually reports to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) regarding its emissions-  
reduction initiatives. For more information on these efficiency projects and our 2019 emissions, visit CDP’s website here.
LED lighting projects in France and India
Our operations in France and India went through an intensive lighting-replacement project in 2019. France recently 
completed implementing LED lighting in our Nanterre facility, which covers over 12,000 m2. While France recently 
completed this project, India saw considerable energy savings from similar efforts, with over 234 MWh of energy and 
187 MT CO2e saved across their operations in 2019.GOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  39Greenhouse gas emissions
In 2019, ADP continued to improve its Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Inventory data collection and management process by relying less on estimations of emissions in favor of the application of improved 
calculation methods. This marks the 3rd year we will be reporting our greenhouse gas emissions in all 3 scopes. Despite our efforts to reduce our global emissions, they slightly increased from 2018 to 
2019 due to the expanded and increased visibility of ADP’s global operations that provided input for our annual GHG reporting.
Fleet
As part of our commitment to reducing carbon emissions, ADP is updating its 
vehicle fleet with fuel-efficient vehicles. As a result of the improvement in ADP’s 
data quality, we are now able to provide an emissions figure for our vehicle fleet: 
In 2019, our global fleet emitted 5,678 metric tons of carbon, which accounts for 
approximately 2% of our total greenhouse gas emissions.
Unified electric vehicle charging stations
With the conversion to ChargePoint EV charging units in 2019, we are now be 
able to capture GHG savings in real-time. To date, ADP has installed 73 charging 
ports located in 12 owned properties. Our goal is to increase this number to 100 ports over the next two years. When considering ADP location choices, the Real 
Estate Team also factors in access to public transportation, bicycle racks and  
storage and access to public EV charging stations in the area.
TwoGo carpooling expansion
ADP India is launching a new exciting internal tool called TwoGo, a ride-sharing 
application that allows our associates to carpool to work easier. The program 
is currently offered at operations in Spain and England. The TwoGo app is 
making our everyday commuting pleasant and smooth. It plays a significant 
role in reducing CO2 emissions by sharing cars instead of using one vehicle per 
associate, effectively halving emissions commuting and sometimes even more, 
depending on vehicle occupancy.Renewable and alternative energy
To further reduce ADP’s emissions footprint, we’ve invested in fuel cell technology 
that generates energy without water or greenhouse gas emissions. In 2018, 
the fuel cell in La Palma, California slightly decreased electric output; however, 
starting in 2019 and continuing to today, the cell is operating at 100% capacity. 
ADP will continue to look for opportunities to use alternative fuel technologies, 
like fuel cells and solar energy, in the future.
ADP also investigates opportunities to purchase renewable energy wherever 
it is economically viable. Our operations in Barcelona, Spain operated on 100% 
renewable energy supply in 2019! We will continue to investigate where we can 
use renewable energy to reduce our emissions further.05,00010,00015,00020,00025,000
201815,108
201923,449Global Scope 1 emissions
MT CO2e050,000100,000150,000200,000250,000
2018194,979
2019205,914Global Scope 3 emissions
MT CO2e040,000
20,00060,00080,000100,000120,000
96,924100,927
2018108,514114,213
2019Global Scope 2 emissions
Location based MT CO2e Market based MT CO2e05,00010,00015,00020,00025,000
201815,108
201923,449Global Scope 1 emissions
MT CO2e050,000100,000150,000200,000250,000
2018194,979
2019205,914Global Scope 3 emissions
MT CO2e040,000
20,00060,00080,000100,000120,000
96,924100,927
2018108,514114,213
2019Global Scope 2 emissions
Location based MT CO2e Market based MT CO2e05,00010,00015,00020,00025,000
201815,108
201923,449Global Scope 1 emissions
MT CO2e050,000100,000150,000200,000250,000
2018194,979
2019205,914Global Scope 3 emissions
MT CO2e040,000
20,00060,00080,000100,000120,000
96,924100,927
2018108,514114,213
2019Global Scope 2 emissions
Location based MT CO2e Market based MT CO2eGOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  40Paper
Since our core business revolves around payroll and HR services, paper waste 
has historically been a significant component of our environmental footprint. 
After recognizing the opportunity to reduce waste for both our clients and our 
own business, we started to offer digitized services and launched paper waste 
reduction initiatives. Within North America, approximately 85% of clients were 
paperless in 2019.
Construction debris
ADP continues to require construction debris from ADP projects be recycled.
In 2019, ADP did not have any new building greenfield construction projects. 
Some locations were vacated, moved and/or upgraded. During the decommission 
process, workstations and unsalvageable furniture (that could not be donated) 
were recycled.
Plastic, aluminum and glass recycling
All ADP buildings include designated recycling containers and we encourage all 
associates to manage their waste by using the proper receptacle responsibly.Recycling awareness campaign
As the new BEGreen branding unfolded, our Corporate Real Estate team  
partnered with another cross-functional team and Brand Marketing to create 
new, simple signage to remind associates that ADP recycles. Our goal is to 
increase recycling of plastics, metals and glass and decrease trash co-mingling 
with recyclables in trash bins.
New signage was also placed at shred bins, encouraging all paper to be recycled. 
We often think of shred bins for confidential information only. However, ADP 
arranged with our shred vendor to recycle all paper placed in the shred bin — 
confidential or otherwise, including newspapers, magazines, pictures, paper file 
folders and more.
Coffee pod recycling
At many of our locations, ADP offers filtered water and hot beverages to our 
associates. In 2019, we introduced a program to collect and recycle “freshpacks” 
used in single-cup machines for hot beverages. The freshpack contents are  
composted while the freshpacks are sold and used to create objects such as park 
benches and tables. In 2019, ADP US recycled 22 tons or 1.3 million freshpacks!Electronic waste
ADP partners with an electronic waste recycler and reseller to reuse or recycle 
our electronic waste components. Prior to recycling, all data is wiped from the 
electronics, then returned to the vendor when the lease expires. In 2019, ADP 
recycled 230 tons of electronic waste.
Gift-in-kind donations
In 2019, ADP continued to donate furniture and office supplies no longer 
needed to nonprofit organizations. In 2019, through our Project Refresh, we 
donated 3,049 items valued at $111,000, resulting in the diversion of nine tons 
of waste in the United States.
Cafeteria sustainable products
Per our policy, ADP requires our cafeterias and bistros to use sustainable products 
whenever possible. Disposable serviceware is made from biodegradable materials, 
and cutlery is made from recycled plastics. Three of our cafeterias have Food 
Waste Pulping Machines, reducing our waste volume. In 2019, we continued to 
prohibit all Styrofoam products and began recycling all cooking grease.Waste ManagementGOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  41Updated air travel policy
In 2019, we updated our corporate travel policy to make it easy for our associates 
to book green traveling arrangements. With the updated policy and company 
resources, considering the environmental impact when traveling doesn’t mean 
sacrificing comfort or productivity. ADP’s airline partners include some of the 
biggest names in air travel and have green operations that lower emissions by 
utilizing fuel-efficient fleets, optimizing flight plans and reducing engine idling 
on tarmacs. When our associates book through ADP Travel, it ensures the use  
of travel partners that have been vetted for sustainable practices, savings  
and security.
In response to COVID-19, ADP limits all non-essential business travel to reduce 
exposure. To compensate for this lack of mobility, ADP offers all of our conferences 
online to prevent transmission events for associates, prospects and clients. These 
efforts also benefit from reducing our travel costs and environmental impact due 
to emissions.
Energy savings from building management 
systems in the Philippines
In the Philippines, our equipment operational optimization via building  
management systems (BMS) has helped manage the reduction of energy use 
across operations in the country. This new system is designed to react to the 
occupants’ needs in real-time, so lighting, heating and cooling are delivered  
on an as-needed basis throughout the building, reducing overall energy use.  
In FY 2020, we saved 121,875 kWhr.Tree planting and forest stewardship in 
Spain
Associates planted 54 trees and bush species native to the area in Barcelona, 
and these trees are expected to remove approximately 2,600 lbs. of carbon from 
the atmosphere every year. Volunteers also installed 20 nest boxes to support 
the local bat population. These native bats are a critical part of the ecosystem 
and are essential to managing the population of insects and other pests, including 
mosquitoes, leafhoppers, beetles, rootworm larva, moths, grasshoppers, scorpions, 
centipedes, ants, flies, and crickets.
Terrace garden in the Czech Republic
Listening to associate feedback, the Facilities Team at our Prague office turned 
a portion of the terrace on the 4th floor into an herb garden. Planted are a host 
of herbs which associates can pick and add to their diet. This gar den promotes 
the sustainability of local and urban farming while serving as a pleasant outdoor 
area for our associates to enjoy.Green InitiativesGOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  42To reduce ADP’s overall greenhouse gas emissions, we continue to assess and improve the energy 
efficiency of our data centers. We look for ways to conserve energy by implementing passive design 
features, reconfiguring office design and investing in efficient hardware and cooling systems.
We continue to rationalize our data center network as we offload some ADP-hosted workloads. ADP has decommissioned 
24 data center facilities since 2015 and plans to rationalize another 4 through 2022, contributing to a reduction in  
carbon footprint.
ADP’s average data center Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) increased slightly from 1.5475 to 1.610 between 2018 and 
2019. However, energy usage [Scope 2 (Location-Based)] emissions from these facilities decreased from 36,856.40 in 
2018, to 30,762.64 in 2019, reflecting a 16% decrease!Data CentersGOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  43ADP has a multi-faceted approach to identifying the environmental, social and governance (ESG) priorities that have the most 
potential to impact the financial value of our business. First, we draw from our talented pool of associates who have an astounding 
breadth of knowledge as it pertains to human capital management and identifying the correlation between successful companies 
and engaged employees. Our associates also have deep expertise in the areas of risk management and sustainable operations, which 
gives us a well-rounded body of knowledge to draw from. In addition to our associates, we also benefit from interactions with other 
stakeholders such as our clients, investors, suppliers, communities, policymakers and both governmental and non-governmental 
organizations that have engaged with us over time on these topics.
Report development prioritization
As part of the development of our sustainability report, we performed a 
benchmarking analysis in order to determine and prioritize our disclosures with 
regard to the environmental, social and governance activities and initiatives 
within our organization. This analysis was performed along multiple dimensions.
We prioritized alignment with our business strategy and assessed materiality 
based on our business priorities, including:
• Driving growth
• Meeting client and market needs
• Attracting, retaining and developing talent
• Operational efficiency
• Innovation that drives differentiation
• Risk management
We also conducted external benchmarking of peers with whom we both cooperate 
and compete for employees and business.We evaluated our initiatives and disclosures relative to business-relevant  
indicators identified by leading sustainability standards and reporting  
organizations, including GRI, SASB, and third-party ESG research providers.
Data collection and analysis
To assess the relevance of our objectives, data elements from various publicly 
available data sources were evaluated for relevance and inclusion. We applied 
both a qualitative and quantitative lens to the data in order to classify the data 
points as having either high, medium or low relevance for our business and for 
our sustainability disclosures at this time. The results of this benchmarking 
exercise were shared with the relevant internal subject matter experts, who 
reviewed the results and helped make the final determination as to what  
content priorities are currently most relevant for the success of our business. 
The report contains disclosures on those indicators deemed to be priorities for 
our business and stakeholders. Our reporting will continue to evolve in line with 
best practices and input from our stakeholders. In some areas, we rely on U.S. 
statistics where global numbers are not available.Identifying our ESG priorities by aligning with best practicesGOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  44GRI Index
GRI Disclosure Title Source
102-1 Name of the organization Automatic Data Processing, Inc.
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Products and services
102-3 Location of headquarters One ADP Boulevard, Roseland, New Jersey, 07068
102-4 Location of operations 2020 10-K and also our list of worldwide locations
102-5 Ownership and legal form 2020 Proxy Statement
102-6 Markets served 2020 10-K
102-7 Scale of the organization 2020 10-K
102-8 Information on employees and other workers Page 15 of CSR report
102-9 Supply chain Page 34 of CSR report
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Page 3 of CSR report
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 2020 10-K
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Page 4 of this report
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Ethics Helpline
102-18 Governance structure 2020 Proxy Statement
102-19 Delegating authority Page 5 of CSR report
102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topic Page 5 of CSR report
102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics Page 5 of CSR report
102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 2020 Proxy Statement
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 2020 Proxy Statement
102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 2020 Proxy Statement
102-25 Conflicts of interest 2020 Proxy Statement
102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Page 5 of CSR reportGOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  45GRI Index
GRI Disclosure Title Source
102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance Page 5 of CSR report and also 2020 Proxy Statement
102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impact Page 5 of CSR report
102-30 Effectiveness of risk management process Page 5 of CSR report
102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Page 5 of CSR report
102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting Page 5 of CSR report
102-33 Communicating critical concerns Page 6 of CSR report
102-35 Remuneration policies 2020 Proxy Statement
102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 2020 Proxy Statement
102-40 List of stakeholder groups 2020 Proxy Statement
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 2020 Proxy Statement
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 2020 Proxy Statement
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 2020 Proxy Statement
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 2020 10-K
102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Page 43 of CSR report
102-47 List of material topics Page 43 of CSR report
102-48 Restatements of information 2020 10-K
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Dawn.Verrinder@adp.com
102-55 GRI content index Page 44 of CSR report
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2020 10-K
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change Page 38 of CSR report
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans See Note 10 in 2020 10-K
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Page 33 of CSR report
203-2 Significant indirect economic impact Page 12 of CSR reportGOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  46GRI Index
GRI Disclosure Title Source
204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Page 34 of CSR report
301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Page 40 of CSR report
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Page 38 of CSR report
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Page 38 of CSR report
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 23,449 MT CO2e
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 114,213 MT CO2e
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 205,914 MT CO2e
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Page 38 of CSR report
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Page 40 of CSR report
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees Page 23 of CSR report
401-3 Parental leave Page 23 of CSR report
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation Page 23 of CSR report
403-3 Occupational health services Page 23 of CSR report
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety Page 23 of CSR report
403-6 Promotion of worker health Page 23 of CSR report
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked by business relationships Page 23 of CSR report
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Page 26 of CSR report
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Page 26 of CSR report
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews Page 26 of CSR report
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Page 18 of CSR report
406 Non-discrimination management approach Code of Business Conduct & Ethics
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs Page 33 of CSR report
415-1 Political contributions Page 7 of CSR reportGOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  47SASB Disclosure
Topic Accounting Metric Disclosure Code
Environmental Footprint of 
Hardware and Infrastructure(1) Total energy consumed,  
(2) percentage grid electricity, 
(3) Percentage renewablePlease see ADP’s 2020 ESG Metrics Sheet, Energy and Greenhouse Gas Reductions and Data Centers sections of this report. TC-SI-130a.1
Data Privacy and Freedom  
of ExpressionDescription of policies and practices 
relating to behavioral advertising 
and user privacyThe collection, storage, hosting, transfer, processing, disclosure, use, security, retention and destruction of personal information required to provide our services is done in 
compliance with federal, state and foreign privacy, data protection and cyber security laws.
We are committed to respecting our users’ choices regarding their personal data. Only in rare circumstances, as described in our BCR, will we process user data for a legitimate 
secondary purpose. We do not transfer personal data to third-party providers other than to perform ADP services, after they have contractually agreed to follow our privacy 
principles. Further our products do not target children.
ADP does not have a unique retention schedule based on data or data types due to their varied nature across business units. To learn more, please see our Global Records 
Information Management Program.
For more information on the scope and implementation of our practices related to user privacy, please see ADP’s Privacy page.
For more information on our Binding Corporate Rules (BCR) regarding the collection, retention, protection and usage of personal data, please see ADP’s Global Privacy Policy. TC-SI-220a.1
Number of users whose information 
is used for secondary purposesADP does not currently track this information. TC-SI-220a.2
Total amount of monetary losses 
as a result of legal proceedings 
associated with user privacyPlease see ADP’s 10-K and 10-Qs for a description of any material monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with user privacy. TC-SI-220a.3
(1)  Number of law enforcement 
requests for user information, 
(2)  number of users whose informa-
tion was requested, 
(3) percentage resulting in disclosurePlease see our 10-K and 10-Qs for a description of any materials requests from law enforcement. TC-SI-220a.4Our responses to the SASB disclosures were written in an attempt to include as much of the requested information as possible. As this report reflects our first step in our  
SASB journey, only partial information is available at this time in some instances. We look forward to reporting more comprehensively under this framework in the years ahead.GOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  48SASB Disclosure
Topic Accounting Metric Disclosure Code
Data Security (1) Number of data breaches,  
(2)  percentage involving personally 
identifiable information (PII), 
(3) number of users affectedWhile ADP maintains and continually enhances its global security pr ogram, including extensive business, system, and network security controls and processes, issues that ADP 
characterizes as security incidents do occasionally occur. Such security incidents do not necessarily constitute security breaches as defined by law. ADP’s policy requires the 
prompt reporting of all such security incidents, and appropriate investigation and evaluation to ensure that all incidents are addressed timely and effectively, and in accordance 
with ADP policy and applicable legal requirements. All issues to date have been limited in scope and have included, for example, hard copy or electronic misdeliveries of client 
information. 
Given today’s threat landscape, all large organizations are targeted by cyber-attacks. ADP’s security program is designed to prevent or detect such attempts via ADP’s security 
intelligence platform, while leveraging partnerships with law enforcement and threat intelligence organizations to enhance our capabilities. ADP’s incident response process 
is initiated during any identified attempt. 
Within ADP’s global security program, comprehensive enterprisewide policies and procedures are in place for managing, tracking and reporting security incidents. ADP’s security 
policies require logging of all actual security incidents reported to ADP by its associates, clients or other third parties. Once a security incident is reported, ADP’s incident response 
process is designed to ensure that all incidents are addressed in a timely and effective manner and are in accordance with ADP security policies, procedures and legal requirements. 
When necessary, procedures for notifying clients without undue delay, as well as employees and all other parties who may be impacted by the incident, are initiated and 
appropriate remedial actions are taken. 
For more information please see our disclosure on Incident Management in our Data Security & Data Center sections.TC-SI-220a.1
Description of approach to 
identifying and addressing data 
security risks, including use of  
third-party cybersecurity standardsADP policy requires our management to promptly take appropriate actions and commit sufficient resources to reduce unacceptable loss exposures to acceptable levels. To meet 
this objective ADP has an operational risk management framework and has deployed supporting procedures and tools across the enterprise. ADP Operational Risk Management 
is responsible for maintaining the framework while integrating with Enterprise Risk Management for aggregation and escalation. The ADP Executive Committee provides 
operational risk governance through the Executive Security Council, which is chaired by the Chief Security Officer and includes the CEO, CFO, CIO, CHRO (Chief Human 
Resources Officer), and General Counsel.
The ADP operational risk management framework is based on the following industry standards: 
•  Overall Risk Process: Enterprise Risk Management–Integrated Framework (COSO-ERM); ISO 31000: 2009 Risk Management – Principles and Guidelines; The Risk IT Framework 
(ISACA); COBIT 5 for Risk (ISACA).
• Risk Analysis Approach: The Open Group Risk Taxonomy Standard (O-RT); The Open Group Risk Analysis Standard (O-RA).
We are focused on ensuring that we are safeguarding and protecting personal and business information and client funds, and we devote significant resources to maintain and 
regularly update our systems and processes. ADP’s vendors must meet our data security and privacy standards. Our vendor assurance process enables ADP to assess our vendors 
prior to entering into a contract with them. Our vendors are contractually required to comply with ADP’s privacy principles.
For more information please see our Data Security page.TC-SI-230a.2GOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  49SASB Disclosure
Recruiting & Managing a  
Global, Diverse & Skilled 
WorkforceEmployee engagement as a percent Please see the Training and Development on page 26 of this report. TC-SI-330a.2
Percentage of gender and racial/ 
ethnic group representations for  
(1) management, (2) technical staff, 
and (3) all other employeesPlease see the Diversity & Inclusion section on page 16 of this report. TC-SI-330a.3
Managing System Risk Number of (1) performance issues 
and (2) service disruptions; (3) total 
customer downtimeADP serves over 810,000 clients in more than 140 countries through an array of products and services that meet our clients’ unique human resource and compliance needs 
across the globe. While rare, there are times when our products may experience temporary, unplanned service disruptions due to unforeseen circumstances. Typically, these 
outages are limited to one targeted region, product or country and do not impact the majority of our clients.TC-SI-550a.1
Description of business continuity 
risks related to disruptions of 
operationsADP is committed to keeping our services and operations running smoothly to provide our clients with the best service possible. It’s our priority to identify and mitigate the 
technological, environmental, process and health risks that may interfere with the services we provide to our clients. For this reason, we have created an integrated framework 
that lays out our mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery process.
For more information, please see  our Business Resiliency Fact Sheet as well as the risks outlined in our 10-K and our proxy statement.  TC-SI-550a.2GOVERNANCE CEO MESSAGE INNOVATION ASSOCIATES COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT INDICES HIGHLIGHTS COMMITMENT TO ESG
 2020Global Corporate Social Responsibility Report
•  50Highlights
2020 AWARDS & RECOGNITION:
AnitaB.Org Top Company for Women 
Technologists
Diversity Best Practices
HRC Corporate Equality Index
India Great Places to Work
DiversityInc #4 Top Company for Diversity
BENEFITS:
Inclusive 
benefitsHealth
insuranceParental leave  
for all associatesELECTRONIC WASTE 
RECYCLED:
230 tons
Diverted over 230 tons of 
electronic waste from landfills
% FEMALE ASSOCIATES:
53%
In June 2020, women represented  
53% of ADP’s global workforceTOTAL FY 2020  
REVENUE:
$14.5 billion
Generated over $14.5 billion  
in revenue
% FEMALE BOARD COMPOSITION:
36%
36% female board composition
*as of November 2020TOTAL VOLUNTEER HOURS ACROSS THE US:
In 2019, our associates volunteered 51,914 hours, 
or 2,163 days of their time to non-profits in the USPAPER RECYCLED:
2,165 tons
Our offices recycled 2,165 
tons of paper
% ASSOCIATES RECEIVING 
ETHICS TRAINING:
100%
of our associates receive annual 
ethics training
AVERAGE ASSOCIATE TENURE:
7 Y ears
On average, our associates stay  
with us for 7 years ADP, the ADP logo, and Always Designing for People are trademarks of ADP, Inc. 
Copyright © 2020 ADP, Inc. All rights reserved.