2021 Integrated Sustainability 
and Annual Reports;  
2022 Proxy Statement
Making a  
Material Difference2021 Annual Report
2022  Notice and Proxy StatementSection I
Section II
Section IIIContents
2 About This Repor t
3 Letter from Our Chairman and CE O
4 Our Compan y
5 Our Stakeholder s
5 Our Values
6 Our Business Strategies
6 Financial Hi ghlights
Execu ting our strateg ies
8 Drive Outsized Growth in 
High-Value Categories
ȂȁHƑūǅ¡ƑūǶƥîċŕǋĿŠ ~ƭƑîƙĚƭƙĿŠĚƙƙĚƙ
12Focus Relentlessly on Productivit y
13Allocate Capital Effectively
14Lead in an Environmentally and
Socially Responsible Manne rAbout This Report
This report summarizes Avery Dennison’s 
performance against our strategic priorities, 
as well as our ﬁnancial performance for 
the ﬁscal year ending January 1, 2022. It 
includes our 2021 annual report and our 2022 
notice and proxy statement. Sustainability 
information in the report is a summary 
of the progress we’ve made toward the 
2025 sustainability goals we established 
in 2015 and the 2030 goals and targets we 
established in 2021. Sustainability data are 
unaudited. In addition to this report, our 
annual ESG Download and our policies on 
climate, human rights and water are publicly 
available  at esg.averydennison.com.
    2021 Integrated Repor t  |  Avery Dennison CorporationLetter from  
Our Chairman and CEO
Fellow Stakeholders,
Our team at Avery Dennison stepped up in extraordinary
ways to once again deliver strong results in 2021. In the face of the continuin
g pandemic, supply chain constraints 
îŠēĿŠǷîƥĿūŠîƑǋƎƑĚƙƙƭƑĚƙɈūƭƑƥĚîŞƙČūŠƥĿŠƭĚēƥūēĚŕĿǄĚƑ
impressive results, including our tenth consecutive year of stron
g top- and bottom-line growth, and a year of great 
progress toward our 2025 and 2030 sustainability goals. 
Hitting our 2017-2021 ﬁnanc ial target s
¹ĺĚūǄĚƑîƑČĺĿŠĳūċŏĚČƥĿǄ ĚūĲūƭƑŕūŠĳɠƥĚƑŞǶŠîŠČĿîŕ
targets is to deliver GDP+ growth and top-quartile returns 
on capital—a recipe to deliver superior value creation over 
the long term. 2021 marked an important milestone as
ƥĺĚǶŠîŕǋĚîƑūĲŞĚîƙƭƑĚŞĚŠƥĲūƑƥĺĚǶǄĚɠǋĚîƑǶŠîŠČĿîŕ
targets we announced in 2017. This is the third lon g-term 
performance cycle we’ve completed since introducin g
this discipline in 2012. I’m pleased to report that we once a
gain achieved our lon g-term goals and are on track to 
deliver on our new 2021-2025 tar gets. 
Progress on susta inab ility
We also continue to advance toward the sustainability
goals we set for 2025 and 2030 . This includes actions
to reduce the environmental footprint of our operations,substantially expand our port
folio o f sustainability-oriented
products, support communities where our employees live 
and work, and increase diversity, equity and inclusion.
Del ivering across our portfol io
We reported stron g 2021 results from all three of our 
businesses. L GM delivered another year of stron g mar gins
and exceptionally stron g top-line growth. RBIS continues 
to deliver impressive results, with mar gins expandin g
to anot her recor d, while IHM also ma de solid progress.
Our lar gest growth driver continued to be our Intelli gent
Labels platform, now a $0.7 billion business built on the 
foundational strengths o f our largest businesses—
ƙƎĚČĿǶČîŕŕǋɈƥĺĚŞîƥĚƑĿîŕƙƙČĿĚŠČĚĚǊƎĚƑƥĿƙĚîŠēƎƑūČĚƙƙ
technology of LGM and the data management capabilitiesand market access provided by RBIS. We are leveraging
our success in brin ging Intelli gent Labels to the apparel
industry to also make inroads into other key segments, particularly in food and logistics.
Con
tinuing to invest for growt h
As for capital allocation, we continue to execute a balanced
strate gy. Over the last couple of years, we have increased 
our pace of growth and capability-buildin g investments—
both or ganically and throu gh M&A. We have completed
several ac quisitions, ex panded our venture investment 
program and accelerated our pace o f organic investments. 
¹ĺĚūǄĚƑƑĿēĿŠĳĲūČƭƙūĲƥĺĚƙĚîČƥĿūŠƙĿƙƥūƙĿĳŠĿǶČîŠƥŕǋ
increase our capacity to grow in high-value categories. A great example o
f this is our recent acquisition o f Vestcom,
which is on track to achieve its performance goals while 
also advancing our strategic objectives of the company.
Stren gthen ing our leadersh ip
This February, we elected Deon Stander as president 
îŠēČĺĿĚĲūƎĚƑîƥĿŠĳūĲǶČĚƑɈĚĲĲĚČƥĿǄĚqîƑČĺȂɈȃȁȃȃɍƙ
vice president and general mana ger of RBIS since 2015,
Deon led the transformation of RBI S to be the extremely 
success ful business it is today. We have worked together 
for more than a decade, and I look forward to our 
continued partnership.
Crea ting excep tional value for all our stakeholders
Throu ghout 2021, we were able to deliver for all of our
ƙƥîŒĚĺūŕēĚƑ ƙċǋČūŠƥĿŠƭĿŠĳƥūĚǊĚČƭƥĚūŠūƭƑǶǄĚČūƑĚ
business strate gies and advancin g toward our lon g-term 
goals. Given the diversity of our end markets, our strongcompetitive advanta
ges, and, especially, our a gile and
ƥîŕĚŠƥĚēƥĚîŞɈǅĚîƑĚČūŠǶēĚŠƥĿŠūƭƑîċĿŕĿƥǋƥūČūŠƥĿŠƭĚ
to deliver as we move into 2022. M y thanks to the entire 
Avery Dennison team for their in genuity and dedication, 
and to you for your interest in Avery Dennison.
Mitch Butier 
Avery Dennison Corporation  |  2021 Integrated Report    3We are a global company with locations 
in over 50 countr ies, and we employ
approximately 36,000 people worldwide .We provide branding and in formation labeling solutions, 
including pressure-sensitive materials, radio-frequencyĿēĚŠƥĿ
ǶČîƥĿūŠɚ¤GT'ɛĿŠŕîǋƙîŠēƥîĳƙɈîŠēîǄîƑĿĚƥǋūĲ
converted products and solutions. We design and manu
facture a wide variety o f labeling and functional
materials that enhance branded packaging, carry or display information that connects the physical and the di
gital, and improve customers’ product performance. 
We lead in servin g a vast array of industries worldwide, 
including home and personal care, apparel, e-commerce, logistics, food and grocery, pharmaceuticals and automotive. 
Aver
y Dennison com prises three businesses:
Label and Graphic Materials (LGM)
Our LGM business is the leadin g solutions provider to 
both the pressure-sensitive label and graphics solution
industries worldwide. Our label materials enhance
shelf appeal for brands, in form sho ppers and im prove 
ūƎĚƑîƥĿūŠîŕƙƭƎƎŕǋČĺîĿŠĚĲǶČĿĚŠČǋɍ~ƭƑHƑîƎĺĿČƙ¬ūŕƭƥĿūŠƙ
business is a global leader in self-adhesive and specialtymedia for professional 
graphics providers and desi gners,
with a comprehensive portfolio of highly engineeredmaterials from vehicle wra
ps to architectural products.
LGM continues to play an important role in our growin g 
Intelli gent Labels plat form, providin g the materials 
science capabilities and process en gineerin g expertise
that are key to developing and manu facturing intelligent
labels at scale.
Retail Brandin g and Information Solutions (RBIS )
Our RBIS business provides physical and di gital labelin g
solutions that allow customers in the global apparel, 
food and general retail markets to optimize their on -
product brandin g and en gagement with consumers and 
enable item visibility and traceability from source to end
of life. RBI S solutions include variable data labels, shelf-
edge labels, tickets, tags, woven and fabric labels, heat
transfers, software, printers and consumables.Our Company
LGM
RBI S
IHM
4     2021 Integrated Report  |  Avery Dennison Corporation Our Stakeholders
Customer s
We provide innovative, high-quality products 
and solutions with industry-leading service.
Employee s
We cultivate a diverse, engaged, safe and 
healthy workforce.
Comm unities
We are responsible stewards of the environment and a force for good in our communities.
Inv
estors
We are committed to delivering superior 
shareholder returns over the long term.Inte grity
We are driven by doing the right
thing. Always.
Sustainabilit y
We are focused on the long-term 
health of our business, planet and 
communities.
Courag e
We are brave in the face o f adversity
and the unknown.
Innova tion
We use ima gination and intellect to 
create new possibilities .
External Focu s
We get out to get better .
Teamwork
We are better when we work together 
and put others ahead of ourselves.
Divers ity
We gain stren gth from diverse ideas 
and inclusive teams.
Excellence
We expect the best from ourselves
and each other .Our ValuesƥĺĚǅūƑŕēɫƙŕîƑĳĚƙƥƭŕƥƑîĺĿĳĺĲƑĚƐƭĚŠČǋɚÀOGɛ¤GT'
ɚîŕƙūŒŠūǅŠîƙ¤Ts¤GT'ɛƙūŕƭƥĿūŠƙƎƑūǄĿēĚƑɈǅĚ
leverage our data management capabilities, global supply 
chain and market access in the ongoing advancementof our Intelligent Labels platform. Our solutions enablecustomers in multiple industries across retail and industrialsegments to bridge the physical and the digital to gain
greater visibility into their supply chains, improve inventory
îČČƭƑîČǋɈĿŠČƑĚîƙĚîƭƥūŞîƥĿūŠîŠēŕîċūƑĚĲǶČĿĚŠČǋɈƑĚēƭČ Ě
waste and enhance the consumer experience. 
Industrial and Healthcare Materials (IHM )
Our IHM businesses provide highly engineered tape,
adhesive and fastener solutions for industrial, automotive, 
building and construction, personal care and healthcare 
markets worldwide. We enable custo mers to enhance 
their products’ performance and make their manufacturin g
ƎƑūČĚƙƙĚƙŞūƑĚĚĲǶČĿĚŠƥɍTOqƙūŕƭƥĿūŠƙĳūċĚǋūŠē
bondin g and attachin g to address customers’ most 
complex problems, and ultimately provide a betterend-user experience
.
Avery Dennison Cor poration  |  2021 Inte grated Report    5Our Business Strategies
We continue to deliver GDP+ growth and top-quartile 
return on capital by executing on these proven strategies for success, year after year.
Drive outsized growth in 
high-value categories
Allocate capital 
effectivelyGrow proﬁtably in our 
base businesses 
Lead in an 
environmentally and socially responsible mannerFocus relentlessly 
on productivity
Financial Highlights
2017–2021 Targets 2017–2021 Results(1)   
Sales Growt h 5%+ Ex. Currenc y
4%+ Organic6.6% Ex. Currenc y
4.6% Organic
GAAP Operating Margin 11%+ in 2021 12.6 %in 2021
Adjusted EPS Growth 10%+ 17.3%
Return on Total Capital (ROTC ) incl.
Acquisition Amortization17%+ in 202 1 18.4 %  in 2021
6     2021 Integrated Repor t  |  Avery Dennison Corporation On track to ach ieve 2025 tar gets
$8.83$8.91
2021$1,047
$798
2021  Reported Sales Growth
  Organic Sales Growt hɚȂɛ
  Reported EP S
  Adjusted EP SɚȂɛ  Net Cash Provided by Operatin g Activities
  Free Cash FlowɚȂɛ
ɚTŠŞĿŕŕĿūŠƙɛ
ɚȂɛ'ĚǶŠĿƥĿūŠƙɈŕĿŞĿƥîƥĿūŠƙîŠēƑĚČūŠČĿŕĿîƥĿūŠƙūĲƥĺĚƙĚŠūŠɠH ¡ǶŠîŠČĿîŕŞĚîƙƭƑĚƙĲƑūŞƥĺĚŞūƙƥēĿƑĚČƥŕǋČūŞƎîƑîċŕĚH¡ŞĚî ƙƭƑĚƙîŠē
additional information on certain percentages for the 2017–2021 and 2021-2025 targets are on pages 4, 5 and 53 of the 2022 prox y 
statement included herein.15.6%
2021-1.4%-3.4%
2020
$6.61$7.10
2020$751
$548
20202021–2025 Targets 2021 Results(1)   On Track
5%+ Ex. Currenc y 18.6%  Ex. Currency
15.6% Organic
Adjusted EBITDA Mar gin 16%+ in 2025 15.6% in 2021
Adjusted EPS Growth 10% 25%
ROTC excl. Acquisition Amortizatio n 18%+ in 2025 19.1%  in 2021
Avery Dennison Corporation  |  2021 Inte grated Report    7Intelli gent Labels: Nearl y 30% growth in 202 1
qūƑĚČūŞƎîŠĿĚƙîƑūƭŠēƥĺĚǅūƑŕēîƑĚċĚŠĚǶƥĿŠĳĲƑūŞƥĺĚ
value that our Intelli gent Labels platform delivers. With 
$0.7 billion in sales in 2021, Intelli gent Labels more than
ƥƑĿƎŕĚēĿŠƙĿǕĚūǄĚƑƥĺĚŕîƙƥǶǄĚǋĚîƑƙɈƎƑĿŞîƑĿŕǋēƑĿǄĚŠċǋ
adoption of the technolo gy across the apparel supply 
chain. While we continue to expect apparel to be the maingrowth driver in the coming years, we see even greaterlon
g-term opportunity in other key industries, includin g 
food and lo gistics .
In the food market se gment, we deepened relationships
with quick-service and fast-casual chains over the past
year, which are usin g our solutions to provide greater 
traceability o f the ingredients they buy, and to improve 
the speed and accuracy of mana ging store inventories 
through automation. And in logistics, several o f the 
world’s largest providers are using our RFID-based solutions. For example, one of the world’s largeste-commerce companies is using our complete, integrated so
lution to better ensure t hat shipments containing lithium
ion batteries are appropriately sorted for transport.We again delivered substantial growth in 
2021 in our h igh-value categor ies includ ing 
Intelligent Labels, industrial tapes, 
graphics, and both durable and specialt y 
label products. We continue to increase
our pace of investment and innova tion
in these h igh-value categor ies that serve
markets that are grow ing faster than GDP, 
represent large pools of poten tial pro ﬁt 
and leverage our core capab ilities.Drive Outsized 
Growth in Hi gh-Value
Categor ies
LGM’s specialty 
labels delivered high growth in our pharmaceutical portfolio.
Prov iding key components for the
COVID-19 res pons e
Several of our businesses played important roles in the 
world’s response to the second year of the pandemic. LGM’s specialty labels business saw high growth in our pharmaceutical portfolio, quickly rampin
g up production 
of labels for vaccine vials and syrin ges, which require 
engineerin g for extreme cold-chain environments. We 
have provided materials for hundreds of millions o f 
specialty labels as vaccination efforts have increased.
Avery Dennison Smartrac, our lead brand for our
Intelli gent Label platform, partnered with blockchain 
ƙƥîƑƥƭƎ¬ÀeÀƥūūĲĲĚƑîēĿĳĿƥîŕǄĚƑĿǶČîƥĿūŠƙūŕƭƥĿūŠĲūƑ
authenticatin g COVID-19 testin g kits and personal
protective equipment. The solution applies our Smartrac ĿƑČƭƙʭs
ĚîƑGĿĚŕē ūŞŞƭŠĿČîƥĿū ŠɚsG ɛƥîĳƙîŠē
ēĿĳĿƥîŕĿēĚŠƥĿƥǋƎŕîƥĲūƑŞƥūĚŠîċŕĚĿŠƙƥîŠƥǄĚƑĿǶČîƥĿūŠ
of a product’s provenance. It also allows healthcare 
organizations to access real-time data from the test 
kits to inform the allocation of resources, and to opencommunications c
hanne ls wit h patients to provi de 
guidance on next steps in the case of a positive result .
8    2021 Integrated Report  |  Avery Dennison Corporation Teamin g up with the Premier Lea gue on 
embellishment s
When superstar Cristiano Ronaldo rocked soccer last summer by announcin
g his departure from Juventus for
qîŠČĺĚƙƥĚƑÀŠĿƥĚēɈĿƥŞĚîŠƥƥĺĚƎūƥĚŠƥĿîŕƎƑūēƭČƥĿūŠ
ūĲŞĿŕŕĿūŠƙūĲqîŠČĺĚƙƥĚƑÀŠĿƥĚēŏĚƑƙĚǋƙǅĿƥĺ¤ūŠîŕēūɫƙ
name and number—and our sustainably desi gned RBIS
manufacturin g plant in Norway was ready. The Norway
team is a leadin g global player in the production of heat
transfers used for embellishing sports jerseys. 
We continue to supp ly all names, num bers an d sleeve 
badges—many of which are digitally enabled—to the 20 teams in the league, both for the uniforms the players wear
on the pitch and for jerseys sold to fans via retail. It’s an
important step forward in our strate gy to accelerate growth
in the team sports and performance market se gments. 
Growth in industrial ta pes
Sales of IHM’s industrial tapes products were stron g 
across all regions in 2021, driven by closer collaboration wi
th its custo mers to bette r understand their businesses  
and applications and by levera ging its capabilities for
developing pressure-sensitive materials to serve those needs. 
Growth was primarily driven by our specialty
tape solutions for use in a variety of high-value industrial app
lications, an d in the automotive, consumer app liance,
and building and construction industries, among others.Top: Cristiano Ronaldo’s jersey features names, numbers and sleeve bad ges produced by Avery Dennison .
Avery Dennison Corporation  |  2021 Inte grated Report    9From top: Sustainable ADvantage™;AD RDX™ labelsGrow Pro ﬁtabl y in
Our Base Bus inesse s
We grow our base label and apparel
businesses b y mana ging a portfolio of
products and solutions that address the 
most pressing needs of the markets we 
serve: speed, suppl y chain resilience, 
brand visibility and sustainability .
A new portfolio of sustainabilit y-oriented products 
In July, we launched Sustainable ADvanta geTM, our new 
ǷîĳƙĺĿƎƎūƑƥĲūŕĿ ūūĲƙƭƙƥîĿŠîċĿŕĿƥǋɠūƑĿĚŠƥĚ ēƎƑūēƭČƥƙɍ
Bringing these products under a sin gle banner makes it
easier for our customers to choose solutions to help themmeet their sustainability goals.
Levera
ging our materials science and adhesive knowled ge
and vertically inte grated manufacturin g capabilities, we
created a number of new Sustainable ADvanta ge products
durin g the year. Our AD RDXTMƎūƑƥĲūŕĿūūĲǶŕŞîŠēƎîƎĚƑ
solutions are made with less material , consume fewer
natural resources and generate fewer greenhouse gases.
We also introduced new adhesives made in part withrenewable and bio-based materials in place of petroleum
-
based materials. These move us closer to our 2030  goal of 
offerin g recycled or renewable content in all of our standard
ŕîċĚŕƎƑūēƭČƥƙɍ/ǄĚŠŞūƑĚƙĿĳŠĿǶČîŠƥŕǋ ɈċǋċĚĿŠĳēĚƙĿĳŠĚē
for a wide range of applications, these new adhesivessubstantially expand the opportunity for converters and brands to use a label adhesive that is more environmentally
friendly, without compromising per formance.Serv ing customers desp ite lockdown s
Supply chain resiliency allowed RBIS to grow both revenue
and mar gin in its core Apparel business. When strict 
COVID-19 lockdowns in Southeast Asia forced us to close several of our manufacturin
g sites, our Apparel team in 
Greater China quickly organized to serve as a backup. More than 9,000 apparel employees at 17 sites mobilized to process hundreds of thousands of orders. Thanks to theirefforts—and thanks to our data mana
gement capabilities, 
which allow our operating regions to easi ly share customer
data among different manufacturing sites—our Apparel 
division was a ble to deliver on our service commitments
with little to no impact on customers.
10    2021 Integrated Report  |  Avery Dennison Corporation Despite COVID-19 
lockdowns forcing site closures in Southeast Asia, our Apparel division was able to deliver on our service commitments with little to no impact  on customers.
Avery Dennison Corporation  |  2021 Inte grated Report    11Focus Relentlessl y
on Produc tivity
The year of returning to normal turned out
to be anything but. The ongoing pandemic, slowdowns throu
ghout the global suppl y chain, 
and the highest inﬂation in decades combinedto make 2021 as challeng
ing as its predecessor. 
Our businesses adapted quickly to manage 
increased demand, supply cha in challenges
and loca l lockdowns to minimiz e service
disruptions for customers, while innovatin g to
make our opera tions even more produc tive 
throu gh the pandemic and be yond .
Inves ting in automa tion and d igitization
Throug hout our enterprise, we ’re investing in automation
and digitization to streamline our processes and enable ūƭ
ƑƥĚîŞƙƥūǅūƑŒŞūƑĚĚĲǶČĿĚŠƥŕǋɍGūƑĚǊîŞƎŕĚɈgHq
teams in Europe are now a ble to use t heir time an d our
ŞîŠƭĲîČƥƭƑĿŠ ĳîŠēŕūĳĿƙƥĿČƙîƙƙĚƥƙŞūƑĚĚĲǶČĿĚŠƥŕ ǋɈ
ƥĺîŠŒƙƥūƥĺĚēǄîŠČĚē¡ŕîŠŠĿŠĳ¬ǋƙƥĚŞɚ¡¬ɛƥĺĚǋ
implemented in 2021. The AP S replaces simple, repetitive,
and time-consuming manua l tasks by automating
the plannin g of key manufacturin g processes and the 
distribution of our materials with mathematical al gorithms.
The system frees our teams to focus on more complex
customer nee ds as t hey arise, w hile almost instant ly 
arran ging for delivery o f materials to customers where
and when they need them—even when our stock levels are low due to raw material shorta
ges. The new system 
ĿƙĚǊƎĚČƥĚēƥūēĚŕĿǄĚƑƙĿĳŠĿǶČîŠƥƙîǄĿŠĳƙĿŠūƎĚƑîƥĿŠĳ
expenses and workin g capital .
RBIS continued its on going journey to di gitization in 2021
by imp lementin g a new c loud-based Enterprise Reportin g 
¡ŕîƥĲūƑŞɚ/¤¡ɛîƥĿƥƙ'ƭċîĿŞîŠƭĲîČƥƭƑĿŠ ĳƙĿƥĚɍ¹ĺĚ¤T¬ɠ
wide “One ERP” initiative to implement a common system
îČƑūƙƙƥĺĚċƭƙĿŠĚƙƙĚŠîċŕĚƙĳƑĚîƥĚƑĚĲǶČĿĚŠČǋîČƑūƙƙ
our network.Throughout our 
enterprise, we’re investing in automation and digitization to streamline our processes and enable our teams to work  more efficiently.
    2021 Integrated Repor t  | Avery Dennison Corporation Allocate Cap ital 
Effectivel y
We continue to execute a disciplined 
capital allocation strategy. We generate cons
istentl y stron g free cash ﬂow 
and have a healthy balance sheet. We continue to have ample capacit
y to invest
both or ganicall y and throu gh acquisitions,
while con tinuing to return cash to 
shareholders through a comb ination of
share repurchases and dividends. Continued investment in capability-building 
In 2021, we continued our strategy of building our capabilities 
through acquisitions, venture investments in external innovation and expansion of our manufacturing footprint.
Complementing our 2020 acquisitions of Smartrac and
ACPO, we closed three strate
gic acquisitions in 2021. We
acquired Vestcom, a provider o f shel f-edge pricing and
branded-labeling solutions that increases our presencein high-value categories, with the potential to 
further
accelerate our Intelligent Labels platform; JDC Solutions, a manu
facturer o f pressure-sensitive specialty tapes; and
ZippyYum, a startup that develops solutions enabling operational automation and inventory management 
for 
food retailers .
Our launch of our atma.io-connected product cloud in
March is an example of our investment in di gital innovation.
atma.io unlocks the power of connected products by assi
gning unique di gital identities to everyday items and
provides end-to-end transparency by trackin g, storin g and 
mana ging all the events associated with each item— from
source to consumer and beyond .
Recent venture investments in external innovation includeour stakes in PragmatI
C, a pioneer in the development
ūĲƭŕƥƑîɠŕūǅɠČūƙƥɈ ƭŕƥƑîɠƥĺĿŠǷĚǊĿċŕĚĿŠƥĚĳƑîƥĚēČĿƑČƭĿƥƙ
that can easily be embedded into everyday objects, and Wiliot, a maker of semiconductors that power themselves by harvestin
g ambient ener gy from cellular, Wi-Fi and
Bluetoot h networ ks.
A few of the capital projects in 2021 included construction 
of a new facility in São Paulo, Brazil, for producingRFID ta
gs, alon g with an expansion of our LGM plant in 
São Paulo and completion of a 100,000-square-foot, sustainably desi
gned LGM manufacturin g facility in Greater 
sūĿēîɈĿŠƥĺĚŠūƑƥĺĚƑŠTŠēĿîŠƙƥîƥĚūĲÀƥƥîƑ¡ƑîēĚƙĺɍ
Example o f atma.i o
Avery Dennison Corporation  |  2021 Integrated Report    13Lead in an 
Environmentally and Socially Responsible Manner
In everything we do, we strive to be a force 
for good that creates long-term value for all of our stakeholders. Among other things, that means innovating and operating in  ways that have a positive impact on people and the planet. 
We’re working toward two sets of 
sustainability goals—eight goals set in 2015 for 2025, and three broader goals set in 2021 to be met by 2030. We have exceeded our 2025 goal for reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and are closing in on many others. You can read about our progress toward our 2025 goals in more detail on page 8 of our proxy statement. We’re also off to a solid start toward our 2030 goals. In 2021, we continued to deliver on our GHG emissions reduction and certiﬁed paper usage, while focusing on building the governance and data-gathering mechanisms that will allow us to accurately track our Scope 3 emissions.
14    2021 Integrated Report   |  Avery Dennison Corporation  Deliver innovations that advance  
the circular economy 2021 ResultsProgress against our 2030 Goal 1
Satisfy the recycling, composting or reuse requirements of all single-use 
consumer packaging and apparel with our products and solutions.
RBISɇȂȁȁʣūĲūƭƑČūƑĚƎƑūēƭČƥČîƥĚĳūƑĿĚƙɚƎƑĿŠƥĚēĲîċƑĿČŕîċĚŕƙɈ
ǅūǄĚŠŕîċĚŕƙɈƎîƎĚƑɈĿŠƥĚƑĿūƑĺĚîƥɠƥƑîŠƙĲĚƑ ŕîċĚŕƙɈƎîČŒîĳĿŠĳîŠē¤GT'ɛ
ǅĿŕŕŞĚĚƥūƭƑƥĺĿƑēɠƎîƑƥǋ ǄĚƑĿǶĚē¬ƭƙƥîĿŠîċŕĚ'ǄîŠƥîĳĚ¬ƥîŠēîƑēɍ64%
ɚ¤T¬ƎƎîƑĚŕ~Šŕǋɛ
LGM: 100 % of our standard label products will contain recycled or
renewable content. All of our re gions will have labels that enable 
circularity of plastics.50%
ɚ¡ĚƑČĚŠƥîĳĚ ĿƙūĲƑĚǄĚŠƭĚĲƑūŞ
products that meet our Sustainable 
'ǄîŠƥîĳĚČƑĿƥĚƑĿîɛ
Crea ting c ircular ity w ith a care labe l
In May, we announce d our partners hip wit h Ambercyc le, 
a Los Angeles-based post-consumer garment recycler, 
as part o f our e fforts to advance our digital care-label 
solution. Ambercycle will recycle polyester garments tagged with our labels, turning them into its cycora™brand of yarns and fabrics to be used in new clothin
g, and
ēĿǄĚƑƥĿŠĳƥĺĚĳîƑŞĚŠƥƙĲƑūŞŕîŠēǶŕŕƙɍ
Our di gital care labels replace conventional care ta gs
by allowing consumers to scan a QR code and see their
garment’s sourcin g and manufacturin g history, alon g with
information on how and where to recycle their garment once ƥĺĚǋɫƑ
ĚǶŠĿƙĺĚēǅĿƥĺĿƥɍ¹ĺĚŕîċĚŕîŕƙūŞîŒĚƙĿƥĚîƙĿĚƑĲūƑ
brands to track how many of their garments are in circulation, 
and for recyclers and resellers to identify a garment’s 
materials for sortin g. Our labels offer a total solution,
providin g a physical tri gger for the di gital experience, an
underlyin g data platform and various applications for brands,
consumers and the wider apparel industry.
Winning APR approval for our ﬁlm label s
TŠcîŠƭîƑǋȃȁȃȂɈǅĚċĚČîŞĚƥĺĚǶƑƙƥŕîċĚŕŞîŠƭĲîČƥƭƑĚƑƥū
ūĲĲĚƑîČūŞƎŕĚƥĚƑîŠĳĚūĲǶŕŞƙūŕƭƥĿūŠƙƑĚČūĳŠĿǕĚēċǋƥĺĚ
ƙƙūČĿîƥĿūŠūĲ¡ŕîƙƥĿČ¤ĚČǋČŕĚƑƙɚ¡¤ɛîƙċĚĿŠĳČūŞƎîƥĿċŕĚ
for reclamation systems in North America. By adhering 
Ambercycle digital care labels
to containers wit hout impe ding t he recyc ling process,
our materials enhance the recyclability o f several kinds o f 
plastic packaging popular in multiple product segments,
and can increase the amount o f plastic that is recycled .
Aver y Dennison Cor poration  |  2021 Inte grated Report    15tells us is needed to prevent the most dama ging effects o f 
climate chan ge. SBTi also said that our company’s tar get
ĲūƑĚŞĿƙƙĿūŠƙĲƑūŞūƭƑǄîŕƭĚČĺîĿŠɚ¬ČūƎĚȄɛŞĚĚƥƙ¬¹Ŀɫƙ
criteria for ambitious value chain goals, meaning it too is 
aligned with current best practice .
Enhanc ing our pol icy for respons ible sourc ing
Our comprehensive responsible sourcin g policy for 
suppliers sets out our expectations for materials sourcing
as it applies to labor, endan gered species, animal welfare,
air emissions, forest-derived products, water use and more. 
It brings together and updates a number of individual supplier guidelines into one clear, cohesive policy. To date,ǅ
ĚƥƑîĿŠĚēȃȄȇƙƭƎƎŕĿĚƑƙūŠƥĺĚƎūŕĿČǋɍÀƎēîƥĿŠĳƥĺĚ
policy moves us closer to our 2030  goal of reducing the
environmental impact in our operations and supply chain.Reduce our environmental impact in our 
operations and supply chainProgress against our 2030 Goal 2
Reduce our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 70% from our 2015 baseline.
Work with our supply chain to reduce our 2018 baseline Scope 3 GHG emissions 
by 30 %, with an ambition of net zero by 2050 .48%
Scope 1 and 2*
Scope 3 tracking under
develo pment
¬ūƭƑČĚȂȁȁʣūĲƎîƎĚƑǶċĚƑĲƑūŞČĚƑƥĿǶĚēƙūƭƑČĚƙĲūČƭƙĚēūŠî
deforestation- free future .91%ČĚƑƥĿǶĚē
'ĿǄĚƑƥȊȆʣūĲūƭƑǅîƙƥĚîǅîǋĲƑūŞŕîŠēǶŕŕƙɈǅĿƥĺîŞĿŠĿŞƭŞūĲȉȁʣūĲūƭƑǅîƙƥĚ
recycled and the remainder either reused, composted or sent to ener gy recovery.94%ŕîŠēǶŕŕɠĲƑĚĚʱ
67% recycled
'ĚŕĿǄĚƑîȂȆʣĿŠČƑĚîƙĚĿŠǅîƥĚƑĚĲǶČĿĚŠČǋîƥūƭƑƙĿƥĚƙƥĺîƥîƑĚŕūČîƥĚēĿŠĺĿĳĺ
ūƑĚǊƥƑĚŞĚŕǋĺĿĳĺƑĿƙŒČūƭŠƥƑĿĚƙîƙĿēĚŠƥĿǶĚēĿŠƥĺĚØūƑŕē¤ĚƙūƭƑČĚƙTŠƙƥĿƥƭƥĚ
ɚØ¤TɛƐƭĚēƭČƥ¹ūūŕɍTracking under 
development
ɃHOHċîƙĚŕĿŠĚîŠēîČƥƭîŕēîƥîîƑĚĲƑūŞ£ȄÞ¹'ČūŞƎîƑĿƙūŠƙɚ£Ȅȃ ȁȂȆƥū£ȄȃȁȃȂɛɍ
ʱØîƙƥĚîŠēƑĚČǋČŕĿŠĳēîƥîîƑĚĲƑūŞ£ȄÞ¹'ɍ
Gaining SBTi approval of our
GHG emissions tar gets
In October, we were pleased to receive the Science Based
¹îƑĳĚƥƙĿŠĿƥĿîƥĿǄĚɫƙɚ¬¹ĿɛîƎƎƑūǄîŕūĲūƭƑȃȁȄȁHOH
emissions targets as consistent wit h levels require d to 
meet the goals of the Paris A greement, the bindin g treaty 
îēūƎƥĚēĿŠȃȁȂȆîƥƥĺĚÀŠĿƥĚēsîƥĿūŠƙ ŕĿŞîƥĚ ĺîŠĳĚ
 ūŠĲĚƑĚŠČĚɍ¬¹ĿɫƙîƎƎƑūǄîŕîĲǶƑŞƙƥĺîƥǅĚɫƑĚîĿŞĿŠĳ
at the ri ght level with the ambitious goals we’ve set for 
reducin g the carbon intensity of our business operations
and supply chain .
¬¹ĿǄîŕĿēîƥĚēƥĺîƥĚŞĿƙƙĿūŠƙĲƑūŞūƭƑūƎĚƑîƥĿūŠƙɚ¬ČūƎĚƙ
ȂîŠēȃɛîƑĚĿŠŕĿŠĚǅĿƥĺƑĚēƭČƥĿūŠƙƑĚƐƭĿƑĚēƥūŒĚĚƎ
warming to no more than 1.5°C, the most ambitious goal
of the Paris Agreement and what the latest climate science 2021 Results
16     2021 Integrated Repor t  |  Avery Dennison Corporation Using solar in our manufacturing process in Turnhou t
In July, as part of our effort to reduce our carbon 
emissions, we broke ground on a new Concentrated
¬ūŕîƑ¹ĺĚƑŞîŕɚ ¬¹ɛƎŕîƥĲūƑŞîƥūƭƑTOqƎƑūēƭČƥĿūŠƎŕîŠƥ
in Turnhout, Bel gium. Implemented in partnership with 
AZTE Q bv and the Belgium community group Campina 
Ener gie, the new technolo gy will employ a series of 
parabolic mirrors to concentrate sun light on a co llector 
ƥƭċĚǶŕŕĚēǅĿƥĺĺĚîƥɠČūŠēƭČƥĿŠ ĳŕĿƐƭĿēɍØĚɫŕŕƥĺĚŠƭƙĚƥĺĚ
collected ener gy to help run t he drying ovens harnesse d in
the coatin g process of pressure-sensitive adhesive tapes 
manufactured at the site. We expect to begin using the
CST platform in the second half of 2022. Once completed,it will be the largest installation of parabolic mirrors inan industrial setting in Europe. Its installation 
follows
installation of a windmill at the plant in 2017 .
Top: Inspiration for the new CST platform for our IHM 
production p lant in Turnhout. Photo ta ken at Proviron,
located in Ostend, Belgium. Image courtesy of AZTE Q bv.We innovate not 
only to reduce our environmental impact, but to go further by improving the planet, industries and communities we serve, helping the world move toward a regenerative future.
Avery Dennison Corporation  |  2021 Inte grated Report    17Make a positive social impact by enhancing the 
livelihood of our people and communities 2021 ResultsProgress against our 2030 Goal 3
Foster an engaged team and an inclusive workplace.
•Inclusion Index: 85%
•Employee En gagement: 82% 
•Females in manager level or above positions: 40% 
•¬îĲĚƥǋɇȁɍȃ¤ĚČūƑēîċŕĚTŠČĿēĚŠƥ¤îƥĚɚ¤T¤ɛɚƭƎĲƑūŞȉȁʣĿŠȃȁȂȆɛ
ɚƭƎĲƑūŞȄȃʣĿŠȃȁȂȆɛ
ɚēūǅŠĲƑūŞȁɍȄȂĿŠȃȁȂȆɛ81%
82% 
35%
0.21 RIR
Support the participation of our employees in Avery Dennison Foundation
grants and foster the well-being of the communities in which we and our 
supply chain operate .74% of countries in which we 
operate received a grant
Maintainin g an en gaged workforce—and
enhanc ing DE&I
We were proud to earn a score of 82% from our 2021 
engagement survey of our global workforce, continuin g our 
track record of stron g employee en gagement. As part of our
continuin g journey toward enablin g highly en gaging work 
experiences where every voice is valued, we undertook several actions to review our employment practices andrethink our strate
gies for ensurin g diversity, equity and 
ĿŠČŕƭƙĿūŠɚ'/ʨTɛĿŠūƭƑČūŞƎîŠǋɍØĚîƑĚƙĺîƑƎĚŠĿŠĳūƭƑ
focus on increasin g the numbers of women who hold 
leadership positions, enhancin g the experience of our shop 
ǷūūƑĚŞƎŕūǋĚĚƙɈĿŠČƑĚîƙĿŠ ĳ'/ʨTĲūƑƭŠēĚƑƑĚƎƑĚƙĚŠƥĚē
groups and makin g merit and transparency even more 
foundational to our employee experience .
Designated Best Place to Work for LGBTQ+ Equality
In January 2022, we were proud to receive a perfect
ƙČūƑĚūĲȂȁȁūŠƥĺĚOƭŞîŠ¤Ŀĳĺƥƙ îŞƎîĿĳŠɚO¤ ɛ
Foundation’s 2022 Cor porate E quality Index and the 
designation as a “Best Place to Work for L GBTQ+ 
Equality.” The Corporate Equality Index is a national 
benchmarking tool for measuring corporate policies,ƎƑîČƥ
ĿČĚƙîŠēċĚŠĚǶƥƙƎĚƑƥĿŠĚŠƥƥūgH¹£ʋĚŞƎŕūǋĚĚƙɍIncreas ing our Employee Resource Group s
~ƭƑ/ŞƎŕūǋĚĚ¤ĚƙūƭƑČĚHƑūƭƎƙɚ/¤HƙɛɜĳƑūƭƎƙ ČƑĚîƥĚē
and led by emp loyees based on s hared characteristics
or interests—provide opportunities for our employees
to learn, experience greater belon ging and collectively
amplify their voices. Nine new ER Gs were launched in 
2021, bringing our total to 24 ER Gs with a combined
global membership of more than 2,300. ERG members 
regularly help inform our DE&I strate gy.
Living our value s
Our teams ste pped up in extraordinar y ways to the 
challen ges of 2021. When a second wave of COVID-19 
straine d India’s healthcare system to its breaking point, a
number of our employees in the country—callin g their project
“The Li ght of Hope”—or ganized to provide desperately
needed medical equipment to hospitals in several cities 
where we have operations. With funds provided by our
ČūŞƎîŠǋîŠēƥĺĚǄĚƑǋ'ĚŠŠĿƙūŠGūƭŠēîƥĿūŠɚ'GɛɈƥĚîŞƙ
in Gurugram, Pune and Greater Noida provided ventilators,oxygen concentrators, hospital beds and more, with severalĚĲĲūƑƥ
ƙîĿŞĚēƙƎĚČĿǶČîŕŕǋîƥƙƭƎƎūƑƥĿŠĳ ƭŠēĚƑƙĚƑǄĚēƎîƥĿĚŠƥƙ
in rural areas. Teams donated a new cardiac ambulance for 
rural patients and provided a modular building to expand 
18     2021 Integrated Repor t  |  Avery Dennison Corporation ƙîŠĿƥĿǕĚƑƙɈƎĚƑƙūŠîŕƎƑūƥĚČƥĿǄĚĚƐƭĿƎŞĚŠƥɚ¡¡/ɛîŠēĳƑūČĚƑĿĚƙ
ĿŠČĿƥĿĚƙĿŠČŕƭēĿŠĳîŠĳîŕūƑĚîŠēeūŕŒîƥîɍTŠîŕŕɈƥĺĚgĿĳĺƥ
of Hope pro ject touched the lives of more than 100,000 
people. Personnel in India also arranged for the delivery o f 
medical care and equipment to our own employees living
in communities where supplies were scarce.
Employees in other regions rose to the occasion in
different ways. Some battled the isolation and fatigueof workin
g remotely by creatin g an online tournament, 
consisting of various competitions, to keep morale high. Our LGM technical team installed ma
jor assets at several 
of our manufacturin g sites, despite pandemic restrictions
preventing the equipment makers’ teams from being 
onsite to guide them. And in an incredible demonstrationof commitment durin
g strict government lockdowns in
×ĿĚƥŠîŞɈîŠƭŞċĚƑūĲūƭƑ¤T¬ƙĺūƎǷūūƑūƎĚƑîƥūƑƙĿŠHanoi and Ho Chi Minh City volunteered to live and work in 
our distribution centers, spendin g many weeks apart from
their families, so that we could avoid production shutdowns.
Increasin g and broadenin g our investment
in communitie s
We are proud to su pport the communities where we do 
business, primarily through the ADF, which advances 
education, sustainability and women’s empowerment in the 
places where our employees live and work. In 2021, the 
ADF continued to address these traditional funding areas, 
while also responding to the COVID-19 pandemic and
natural disasters. In addition, prompted by events in 2020,
and in recognition of the role we can play in acceleratingsociety’s journey toward 
greater equity, the ADF also made
grants to or ganizations promotin g DE&I globally, workin g
with employees to identify causes and or ganizations most
relevant to mar ginalized populations in each re gion.
Avery Dennison Corporation  |  2021 Inte grated Report    19Altogether, the ADF and our company made over 
$6 million in grants and other contributions in support of our
communities, more than double the amount of the year prior. 
Employees are critical to advancin g our community
investment efforts, and they participate throu gh both giving 
and volunteerin g. ADF en gages employees throu gh its 
Grantin g Wishes pro gram, which allows them to recommend
one-time grants—which usually include volunteer support 
from employees—to their local non- governmental 
ūƑĳîŠĿǕîƥĿūŠƙɚsH~ƙɛɍTŠȃȁȃȂɈĚŞƎŕūǋĚĚƙǅĚƑĚŞūƑĚ
engaged than ever, respon ding to increase d need. The ADF  
increased Grantin g Wishes fundin g, supportin g 80 NGOs in 
33 countries with a total of $800,000. In the decade since the ADF launched Grantin
g Wishes, more than 2,000 of our 
employees have made fundin g recommendations, enablin g 
grants to more than 350 organizations. 
In 2021, the ADF also continued to support the Employee
Assistance Fund, which ADF launched in 2020 to provide ǶŠîŠČĿî
ŕîƙƙĿƙƥîŠČĚƥūǄĚƑǋ'ĚŠŠĿƙūŠĚŞƎŕūǋĚĚƙ
impacted by COVID-19. Employee donations have ƙĿĳŠĿǶČîŠƥŕ
ǋƙƭƎƎŕĚŞĚŠƥĚ ēƥĺĚ'GĲƭŠēƙĚîƑŞîƑŒĚēĲū Ƒ
this effort. In all, more than $3.4 million was distributed in 
2021 to more than 4 ,200 individuals in 27 countries.
The Avery Dennison Foundation provided grants to Pro-Saber SP Institute in São Paulo, Brazil, to promote literacy through play.
Supporting women in the  
apparel value chain
Women wor kers an d entrepreneurs are essentia l
to the global apparel industry. In 2021, the ADF
ŞîēĚîĳƑîŠƥūĲɷȃȆȁɈȁȁȁƥūƥĺĚÀŠĿƥĚēsîƥĿūŠƙ
Foundation’s Resilience Fund for Women in
Global Value Chains , which invests in women-led , 
community-based or ganizations that champion
women’s sexual and reproductive health, alon g
with women’s sa fety and security, as long -
term drivers o f economic resilience. The ADF’s
support, in combination with funding from other 
companies, wi ll help the Resilience Fund exten d 
its grantmaking, currently focused in India and
Bangladesh, into Southeast Asia.
20     2021 Integrated Repor t  | Avery Dennison Corporation 2021
Annual ReportSection II
Aver y Dennison Cor poration  |  2021 Annual Re port   SECTION II2021 Annual Report
Contents
1 Safe Harbor Statement
2 Stockholder Return Performance
3 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations
20 Consolidated Financial Statements
20 Consolidated Balance Sheets
21 Consolidated Statements of Income
22 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
23 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity
24 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
25 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
56 Statement of Management Responsibility for Financial Statements
56 Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
57 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
60 Other InformationSafe Harbor Statement
The matters discussed in this Annual Report contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements, which are not statements of historical fact, contain estimates,
assumptions, projections and/or expectations regarding future events, which may or may not occur. Words such as “aim,”
“anticipate,” “assume,” “believe,” “continue,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “foresee,” “guidance,” “intend,” “may,” “might,”
“objective,” “plan,” “potential,” “project,” “seek,” “shall,” “should,” “target,” “will,” “would,” or variations thereof, and other
expressions that refer to future events and trends, identify forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements,
and financial or other business targets, are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, which could cause our actual results
to differ materially from the expected results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-lookingstatements.
We believe that the most significant risk factors that could affect our financial performance in the near-term include:
(i) the impacts to underlying demand for our produ cts and/or foreign currency fluctuations from global economic conditions,
political uncertainty, changes in environmental standards and governmental regulations, including as a result of COVID-19;
(ii) the availability of raw materials; (iii) competitors’ actions, includ ing pricing, expansion in key markets, and product
offerings; (iv) the degree to which higher costs can be offset with productivity measures and/or passed on to customers
through price increases, without a significant loss of volume; and (v) the execution and integration of acquisitions, including
our acquisition of CB Velocity Holdings, LLC (“Vestcom”).
Certain risks and uncertainties are discussed in more detail under “Risk Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
January 1, 2022 and include, but are not limited to, risks and uncertainties relating to the following:
• COVID-19• International Operations – worldwide and local economic and market conditions; changes in political conditions;
and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and other risks associated with foreign operations, including in
emerging markets
• Our Business – fluctuations in demand affecting sales to customers; fluctuations in the cost and availability of raw
materials and energy; changes in our markets due to competitive conditions, technological developments,environmental standards, laws and regulations, and customer preferences; the impact of competitive products and
pricing; execution and integration of acquisitions, including our acquisition of Vestcom; selling prices; customer and
supplier concentrations or consolidations; financial condition of distributors; outsourced manufacturers; product
and service quality; timely development and market acceptance of new products, including sustainable or
sustainably-sourced products; investment in development activities and new production facilities; successfulimplementation of new manufacturing technologies and installation of manufacturing equipment; our ability to
generate sustained productivity improvement; our ability to achieve and sustain targeted cost reductions; and
collection of receivables from customers
• Income Taxes – fluctuations in tax rates; changes in tax laws and regulations, and uncertainties associated with
interpretations of such laws and regulations; retention of tax incentives; outcome of tax audits; and the realizationof deferred tax assets
• Information Technology – disruptions in information technology systems or data security breaches, including
cyber-attacks or other intrusions to network security; and successful installation of new or upgraded information
technology systems
• Human Capital – recruitment and retention of employees; and collective labor arrangements• Our Indebtedness – credit risks; our ability to obtain adequate financing arrangements and maintain access to
capital; fluctuations in interest rates; volatility of financial markets; and compliance with our debt covenants
• Ownership of Our Stock – potential significant variability of our stock price and amounts of future dividends and
share repurchases
• Legal and Regulatory Matters – protection and infringement of intellectual property; impact of legal and regulatory
proceedings, including with respect to environmental, anti-corruption, health and safety, and trade compliance
• Other Financial Matters – fluctuations in pension costs and goodwill impairment
Our forward-looking statements are made only as of February 23, 2022. We assume no duty to update these forward-
looking statements to reflect new, changed or unanticipated events or circumstances, other than as may be required by law.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2021 Annual Report 1Stockholder Return Performance
Comparison of Five-Year Cumulative Total Return as of December 31, 2021
The graph below compares the cumulative stockholder return on our common stock, including reinvestment of
dividends, with the return on the S&P 500 Stock Index and the average return (weighted by market capitalization) of theS&P 500 Materials and Industrials subsets (the “Market Basket”), in each case for the five-year period ending
December 31, 2021.
$50$100$150$200$300
$250$350
12/31/2016 12/31/2017 12/31/2018 12/31/2019 12/31/2020 12/31/2021Avery Dennison Corporation
S&P 500 Index
Industrials and Materials (Weighted Average)
Total Return Analysis(1)
12/31/2016 12/31/2017 12/31/2018 12/31/2019 12/31/2020 12/31/2021
Avery Dennison $100 $167 $133 $197 $239 $338
S&P 500 Index 100 119 112 144 168 213Market Basket
(2) 100 130 118 155 183 230
(1)Assumes $100 invested on December 31, 2016 and reinvestment of dividends.
(2)Average weighted by market capitalization.
Historical performance is not necessarily indicative of future performance.
2 2021 Annual Report |Avery Dennison CorporationManagement’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations
ORGANIZATION OF INFORMATION
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations, or MD&A, providesmanagement’s views on our financial condition and results
of operations, should be read in conjunction with the
accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements andnotes thereto, and includes the sections identified below.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures ........................... 3
Overview and Outlook ................................... 4
Analysis of Results of Operations ......................... 6
Results of Operations by Reportable Segment ............. 8
Financial Condition ...................................... 9
Critical Accounting Estimates ............................. 1 5
Recent Accounting Requirements ......................... 1 8
Market-Sensitive Instruments and Risk Management ....... 1 8
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
We report our financial results in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the UnitedStates of America, or GAAP, and also communicate with
investors using certain non-GAAP financial measures.
These non-GAAP financial measures are not inaccordance with, nor are they a substitute for or superiorto, the comparable GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are intended to supplement the
presentation of our financial results that are prepared in
accordance with GAAP. Based on feedback from investorsand financial analysts, we believe that the supplementalnon-GAAP financial measures we provide are useful to
their assessments of our performance and operating
trends, as well as liquidity.
Our non-GAAP financial measures exclude the impact
of certain events, activities or strategic decisions. Theaccounting effects of these events, activities or decisions,
which are included in the GAAP financial measures, may
make it difficult to assess our underlying performance in asingle period. By excluding the accounting effects, positiveor negative, of certain items (e.g., restructuring charges,outcomes of certain legal proceedings, certain effects of
strategic transactions and related costs, losses from debt
extinguishments, gains or losses from curtailment orsettlement of pension obligations, gains or losses on salesof certain assets, gains or losses on venture investmentsand other items), we believe that we are providing
meaningful supplemental information that facilitates an
understanding of our core operating results and liquiditymeasures. While some of the items we exclude fromGAAP financial measures recur, they tend to be disparatein amount, frequency, or timing.We use these non-GAAP financial measures
internally to evaluate trends in our underlyingperformance, as well as to facilitate comparison to theresults of competitors for quarters and year-to-date
periods, as applicable.
We use the non-GAAP financial measures described
below in this MD&A.
•Sales change ex. currency refers to the increase or
decrease in net sales, excluding the estimatedimpact of foreign currency translation, and, where
applicable, an extra week in our fiscal year and the
calendar shift resulting from the extra week in theprior fiscal year and currency adjustment fortransitional reporting of highly inflationaryeconomies. The estimated impact of foreign
currency translation is calculated on a constant
currency basis, with prior period results translatedat current period average exchange rates toexclude the effect of currency fluctuations.
•Organic sales change refers to sales change ex.
currency, excluding the estimated impact of
acquisitions and product line divestitures.
We believe that sales change ex. currency and
organic sales change assist investors in evaluating
the sales change from the ongoing activities of our
businesses and enhance their ability to evaluate ourresults from period to period.
•Free cash flow refers to cash flow provided by
operating activities, less payments for property,
plant and equipment, software and other deferred
charges, plus proceeds from sales of property, plantand equipment, plus (minus) net proceeds frominsurance and sales (purchases) of investments.Free cash flow is also adjusted for, where
applicable, certain acquisition-related transaction
costs and the cash contributions related to thetermination of our U.S. pension plan. We believethat free cash flow assists investors by showing theamount of cash we have available for debt
reductions, dividends, share repurchases, and
acquisitions.
•Operational working capital as a percentage of
annualized current quarter net sales refers to trade
accounts receivable and inventories, net of
accounts payable, and excludes cash and cashequivalents, short-term borrowings, deferred taxes,other current assets and other current liabilities, aswell as net current assets or liabilities held-for-saledivided by annualized current quarter net sales. We
believe that operational working capital as a
percentage of annualized current quarter net salesassists investors in assessing our working capital
Avery Dennison Corporation |2021 Annual Report 3Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations
requirements because it excludes the impact of
fluctuations attributable to our financing and otheractivities (which affect cash and cash equivalents,deferred taxes, other current assets, and othercurrent liabilities) that tend to be disparate in
amount, frequency, or timing, and may increase the
volatility of working capital as a percentage of salesfrom period to period. The items excluded from thismeasure are not significantly influenced by our day-to-day activities managed at the operating leveland do not necessarily reflect the underlying trends
in our operations.
OVERVIEW AND OUTLOOK
Operational and Market Update
Our operations largely recovered in 2021 from the
prior-year impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, with highervolume across our businesses.
Uncertainty surrounding the global health crisis
remained elevated in 2021 as many parts of the worldexperienced an increased number of COVID-19 cases atsome point during the year. The greatest impact to ourcompany was in Southeast Asia, particularly in our RetailBranding and Information Solutions (“RBIS”) reportablesegment. The safety and well-being of employees hasbeen and continues to be our top priority. We have takensteps to ensure employee safety, quickly implementingworld-class safety protocols and continuing to adapt ourguidelines as the pandemic continues to evolve. Whereappropriate, we may take further actions required byinternational, federal, state or local authorities or that wedetermine are in the best interests of our employees,customers, shareholders and communities.
We worked to actively manage through a dynamic
supply and demand environment in which demand across themajority of businesses and regions was strong, while rawmaterial, freight and labor availability was constrained.Inflation was persistent and we implemented pricing andmaterial re-engineering actions to offset higher costs. Wealso leveraged our global scale, working closely withcustomers and suppliers to minimize disruptions anddemonstrating agility and preparedness through robustscenario planning.
Fiscal Year
Our fiscal years generally consist of 52 weeks, but
every fifth or sixth fiscal year consists of 53 weeks; our2021 and 2019 fiscal years consisted of 52-week periodsending January 1, 2022 and December 28, 2019,respectively. Our 2020 fiscal year consisted of a 53-weekperiod ending January 2, 2021.Net Sales
The factors impacting the reported sales change are
shown in the table below.
2021 2020
Reported sales change 21% (1)%
Foreign currency translation (3) 1
Extra week impact 1 (1)
Sales change ex. currency(1) 19% (2)%
Acquisitions and product line divestitures (3) (2)
Organic sales change(1) 16% (3)%
(1)Totals may not sum due to rounding
In 2021, net sales increased on an organic basis
primarily due to higher volume/mix and recovery from theprior-year impact of COVID-19. In 2020, net sales
decreased on an organic basis primarily due to the impact
of COVID-19 on our markets and customers.
Net Income
Net income increased from approximately
$556 million in 2020 to approximately $740 million in2021. The major factors affecting this increase in net
income were:
• Higher volume/mix• Lower restructuring charges• Favorable currency translation• Benefits from productivity initiatives, including
savings from restructuring actions, net of transition
costs
• Benefit from the Brazil indirect tax credit• Lower allowance for credit losses
Offsetting factors:
• Higher employee-related costs• Impact of prior-year temporary cost reduction
actions
• Net impact of higher selling prices, higher raw
material costs, and higher freight costs
• Higher income tax provision• Growth investments• Contingent liability related to patent infringement
litigation
Acquisitions
Vestcom Acquisition
On August 31, 2021, we completed our acquisition of
Vestcom, an Arkansas-based provider of shelf-edge pricing,productivity and consumer engagement solutions for retailers
and consumer packaged goods companies, for purchase
consideration of $1.47 billion. We funded this acquisitionusing a combination of cash and proceeds from commercial
4 2021 Annual Report |Avery Dennison CorporationManagement’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations
paper borrowings and issuances of senior notes. Refer toNote 4, “Debt,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements formore information.
We believe Vestcom’s solutions expand our position in
high value categories while adding channel access and datamanagement capabilities to our RBIS reportable segment.
Other 2021 Acquisitions
On March 18, 2021, we completed our acquisition of the
net assets of ZippyYum, LLC (“ZippyYum”), a California-baseddeveloper of software products used in the food service and
food preparation industries. We believe that this acquisition
enhances the product portfolio in our RBIS reportablesegment.
On March 1, 2021, we completed our acquisition of
the issued and outstanding stock of JDC Solutions, Inc.(“JDC”), a Tennessee-based manufacturer of pressure-
sensitive specialty tapes. We believe that this acquisition
expands the product portfolio in our Industrial andHealthcare Materials (“IHM”) reportable segment.
The acquisitions of ZippyYum and JDC are referred to
collectively as the “Other 2021 Acquisitions.”
The aggregate purchase consideration for the Other
2021 Acquisitions was approximately $43 million. Wefunded the Other 2021 Acquisitions using cash andcommercial paper borrowings. In addition to the cash paid
at closing, the sellers in one of these acquisitions are
eligible for earn-out payments of up to approximately $13million subject to the acquired company’s achievement ofcertain performance targets. As of the acquisition date, weestimated the fair value of these earn-out payments to be
approximately $12 million, which has been included in the
$43 million of aggregate purchase consideration.
The Other 2021 Acquisitions were not material,
individually or in the aggregate, to the ConsolidatedFinancial Statements.
2020 Acquisitions
On December 31, 2020, we completed our
acquisition of ACPO, Ltd. (“ACPO”), an Ohio-based
manufacturer of self-wound (linerless) pressure-sensitiveoverlaminate products, for consideration of approximately$88 million. We believe this acquisition expands ourproduct portfolio in the North American business of ourLabels and Graphic Materials (“LGM”) reportable segment.On February 28, 2020, we completed our acquisition of
Smartrac’s Transponder (RFID Inlay) division (“Smartrac”), amanufacturer of RFID products, for consideration ofapproximately $255 million ( €232 million). We believe this
acquisition enhances our research and developmentcapabilities, expands our product lines and providesadditional manufacturing capacity. Results for Smartrac’soperations were included in our RBIS reportable segment.
These acquisitions (the “2020 Acquisitions”) were not
material, individually or in the aggregate, to theConsolidated Financial Statements.
Refer to Note 2, “Acquisitions,” to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for more information.
Cost Reduction Actions
2019/2020 Actions
During fiscal year 2021, we recorded $13.3 million in
restructuring charges, net of reversals, related to our2019/2020 actions. These charges consisted of severanceand related costs for the reduction of approximately 360positions and asset impairment charges at numerouslocations across our company, primarily reflecting actions inour LGM and RBIS reportable segments. The actions in ourLGM reportable segment were primarily associated withconsolidations of operations in North America and its graphicsbusiness in Europe, in part in response to COVID-19. Theactions in our RBIS reportable segment were primarily relatedto global headcount and footprint reduction, with someactions accelerated and expanded in response to COVID-19.During fiscal year 2020, we recorded $56 million inrestructuring charges, net of reversals, related to our2019/2020 actions. These charges consisted of severanceand related costs for the reduction of approximately 2,160positions, as well as asset impairment charges. Our activitiesrelated to our 2019/2020 actions began in the fourth quarterof fiscal year 2019 and continued through fiscal year 2021.
Impact of Cost Reduction Actions
In both fiscal years 2021 and 2020, we realized
approximately $65 million, in savings from restructuring,net of transition costs, primarily from our 2019/2020actions.
Restructuring charges were included in “Other
expense (income), net” in the Consolidated Statements ofIncome. Refer to Note 13, “Cost Reduction Actions,” to theConsolidated Financial Statements for more information.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2021 Annual Report 5Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Accounting Guidance Updates
Refer to Note 1, “Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements for this
information.
Cash Flow
(In millions) 2021 2020 2019
Net cash provided by operating
activities $1,046.8 $ 751.3 $ 746.5
Purchases of property, plant
and equipment (255.0) (201.4) (219.4)
Purchases of software and
other deferred charges (17.1) (17.2) (37.8)
Proceeds from sales of property,
plant and equipment 1.1 9.2 7.8
Proceeds from insurance and
sales (purchases) ofinvestments, net 3.1 5.6 4.9
Contributions for U.S. pension
plan termination – – 10.3
Payments for certain
acquisition-relatedtransaction costs 18.8 – –
Free cash flow $ 797.7 $ 547.5 $ 512.3
In 2021, cash flow provided by operating activities
increased compared to 2020 primarily due to higher net
income, changes in operational working capital and lower
severance payments related to restructuring actions,partially offset by higher income tax payments, net of
refunds. In 2021, free cash flow increased compared to
2020 primarily due to higher cash provided by operating
activities adjusted for payments for certain acquisition-related transaction costs, partially offset by higher
purchases of property, plant and equipment.
Outlook
In addition to the continued uncertain impact of
COVID-19 on our businesses and including the impact of
our Vestcom acquisition, certain factors that we believe
may contribute to our 2022 results are described below.
• We expect net sales to increase by approximately
8% to 11%, reflecting in part a decrease of
approximately 3% from the effect of foreigncurrency translation and an increase ofapproximately 3% from the effect of acquisitions.
• Based on recent exchange rates, we expect foreign
currency translation to decrease our operatingincome by approximately $35 million.
• We expect fixed and IT capital expenditures to be
approximately $350 million.
• We expect our full year effective tax rate to be in
the mid-twenty percent range.ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Income before Taxes
(In millions, except
percentages) 2021 2020 2019
Net sales $8,408.3 $6,971.5 $7,070.1
Cost of products sold 6,095.5 5,048.2 5,166.0
Gross profit 2,312.8 1,923.3 1,904.1
Marketing, general and
administrative expense 1,248.5 1,060.5 1,080.4
Other expense (income), net 5.6 53.6 53.2Interest expense 70.2 70.0 75.8Other non-operating
expense (income), net (4.1) 1.9 445.2
Income before taxes $ 992.6 $ 737.3 $ 249.5Gross profit margin 27.5% 27.6% 26.9%
Gross Profit Margin
Gross profit margin in 2021 decreased slightly
compared to 2020 primarily reflecting the net impact ofhigher sales prices, higher raw material costs and higher
freight costs, the impact of prior-year temporary cost
reduction actions and higher employee-related costs,partially offset by favorable volume/mix and the benefitsfrom productivity initiatives, including temporary cost
reduction actions, material re-engineering and savings
from restructuring actions, net of transition costs.
Gross profit margin in 2020 increased compared to
2019 primarily reflecting the net benefit of pricing and rawmaterial input costs and the benefits from productivity
initiatives, including temporary cost reduction actions,
material re-engineering and savings from restructuringactions, net of transition costs, partially offset by the netimpact of lower volume and unfavorable product mix.
Marketing, General and Administrative Expense
Marketing, general and administrative expense
increased in 2021 compared to 2020 primarily due to higher
employee-related costs including the impact of acquisitions,
growth investments, the impact of prior-year temporary cost
reduction actions and unfavorable currency translation,partially offset by lower allowance for credit losses.
Marketing, general and administrative expense
decreased in 2020 compared to 2019 primarily due to
benefits from productivity initiatives, including temporary
cost reduction actions, and savings from restructuringactions, net of transition costs, as well as favorable foreigncurrency translation, partially offset by the impact of ourSmartrac acquisition, increased allowance for credit losses
and our contribution to the Avery Dennison Foundation.
6 2021 Annual Report |Avery Dennison CorporationManagement’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Other Expense (Income), Net
(In millions) 2021 2020 2019
Other expense (income), net by type
Restructuring charges:
Severance and related costs $10.5 $49.1 $45.3Asset impairment charges and lease
cancellation costs 3.1 6.2 5.1
Other items:
Transaction and related costs 20.9 4.2 2.6Loss (gain) on sale of assets, net .2 (.5) (3.2)Gain on venture investments, net (23.0) (5.4) –Gain on sale of product line (5.7) – –Outcomes of legal proceedings, net (.4) – 3.4
Other expense (income), net $ 5.6 $53.6 $53.2
Refer to Note 13, “Cost Reduction Actions,” to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.
Refer to Note 9, “Fair Value Measurements,” to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for more information
regarding gains on venture investments.
Refer to Note 15, “Segment and Disaggregated
Revenue Information,” to the Consolidated FinancialStatements for more information regarding outcomes of
legal proceedings.
Interest Expense
Interest expense in 2021 was comparable to 2020.
Interest expense decreased approximately $5.8 million in2020 compared to 2019, primarily reflecting lower
borrowing rates on our outstanding indebtedness.
Other Non-Operating Expense (Income), Net
Other non-operating income, net, increased in 2021
compared to 2020 as the components of net periodic benefitcosts other than service costs resulted in a net credit.
Other non-operating expense, net, decreased in 2020
compared to 2019 primarily due to the prior-year impactof the Avery Dennison Pension Plan (the “ADPP”)termination. In 2019, we recorded approximately $444million of settlement charges related to the termination of
the ADPP which increased other non-operating expense
compared to 2018.Refer to Note 6, “Pension and Other Postretirement
Benefits,” and Note 14, “Taxes Based on Income,” to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.
Net Income and Earnings per Share
(In millions, except percentages
and per share amounts) 2021 2020 2019
Income before taxes $992.6 $737.3 $249.5
Provision for (benefit from) income
taxes 248.6 177.7 (56.7)
Equity method investment (losses)
gains (3.9) (3.7) (2.6)
Net income $740.1 $555.9 $303.6Net income per common share $ 8.93 $ 6.67 $ 3.61
Net income per common share,
assuming dilution 8.83 6.61 3.57
Effective tax rate 25.0% 24.1% (22.7)%
Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes
Our effective tax rate in 2021 increased compared to
2020 primarily due to lower benefits from decreases incertain tax reserves, including interest and penalties, as a
result of closing tax years, and the tax charge related to
certain legal proceeding, partially offset by higher benefitsfrom return-to-provision adjustments related to GILTIexclusion elections in 2021. Our effective tax rate in 2020increased compared to 2019 primarily due to the tax
effects of the settlement charges associated with our
termination of the ADPP and a discrete foreign structuringtransaction in 2019.
Our effective tax rate can vary from period to period
due to the recognition of discrete events, such as changes
in tax reserves, settlements of income tax audits, changesin tax laws and regulations, return-to-provisionadjustments, and tax impacts related to stock-basedpayments, as well as recurring factors, such as changes in
the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory
tax rates and the execution of tax planning strategies.
Refer to Note 14, “Taxes Based on Income,” to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2021 Annual Report 7Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS BY REPORTABLE SEGMENT
Operating income refers to income before taxes,
interest and other non-operating expense (income), net.
Label and Graphic Materials
(In millions) 2021 2020 2019
Net sales including
intersegment sales $5,528.9 $4,795.4 $4,826.1
Less intersegment sales (98.5) (80.3) (80.2)
Net sales $5,430.4 $4,715.1 $4,745.9
Operating income(1) 801.7 688.8 601.5
(1)Included charges associated with
restructuring actions, transaction andrelated costs and gain/losses on saleof assets in all years, outcomes oflegal proceedings and gain on sale ofproduct line in 2021 and gain onventure investments in 2020
$ (28.1) $ 22.2 $ 28.3
Net Sales
The factors impacting reported sales change are
shown in the table below.
2021 2020
Reported sales change 15% (1)%
Foreign currency translation (4) 1
Extra week impact 1 (1)
Sales change ex. currency(1) 13 (1)
Acquisitions and product line divestitures (1) –
Organic sales change(1) 12% (1)%
(1)Totals may not sum due to rounding
In 2021, net sales increased on an organic basis
compared to the same period in the prior year due tofavorable volume/mix and pricing actions. On an organic
basis, net sales increased by a mid-teens rate in emerging
markets, a high-single digit rate in North America and alow double-digit rate in Western Europe.
In 2020, net sales decreased on an organic basis
primarily due to raw material deflation-related price
reductions, which more than offset higher volume/mix. On
an organic basis, net sales increased by a low-single digitrate in emerging markets and North America and decreasedby a low-to-mid single digit rate in Western Europe.
Operating Income
Operating income increased in 2021 compared to the
same period last year primarily due to favorable volume/mix, the Brazil indirect tax credit, lower restructuring
charges, favorable foreign currency translation, and lower
allowance for credit losses. These benefits were partiallyoffset by the net impact of higher sales prices, higher raw
material costs, and higher freight costs, as well as higheremployee-related costs.
Operating income increased in 2020 compared to
2019 primarily due to benefits from productivity initiatives,including temporary cost reduction actions, material re-engineering, savings from restructuring actions, net oftransition costs, and benefits from raw material deflation,
net of pricing and the impact of the extra week in our
2020 fiscal year. These benefits were partially offset byhigher employee-related costs, unfavorable volume/mixand increased allowance for credit losses.
Retail Branding and Information Solutions
(In millions) 2021 2020 2019
Net sales including
intersegment sales $2,239.1 $1,658.4 $1,670.9
Less intersegment sales (37.3) (27.5) (20.6)
Net sales $2,201.8 $1,630.9 $1,650.3
Operating income(1) 257.2 144.7 196.6
(1)Included charges associated with
restructuring actions and net gainson sales of assets and transactionand related costs in all years,outcomes of legal proceeding, losson sale of asset and gain on ventureinvestments in 2021 and loss onventure investments in 2020
$ 36.6 $ 22.7 $ 9.9
Net Sales
The factors impacting reported sales change are
shown in the table below.
2021 2020
Reported sales change 35% (1)%
Foreign currency translation (2) 1Extra week impact 2 (2)
Sales change ex. currency
(1) 35 (2)
Acquisitions (10) (7)
Organic sales change(1) 25% (10)%
(1)Totals may not sum due to rounding
In 2021, on an organic basis, net sales in the segment
related to Intelligent Labels increased over 20%. Net salesin the base business increased by a low double-digit rate,
partially due to the recovery from the prior-period impact
of COVID-19.
In 2020, sales ex. currency decreased from the prior
year due to a mid-teens rate decline in the base businessdriven by temporary closures of apparel manufacturing
sites and lower demand for apparel due to the impact of
COVID-19, partially offset by an approximate 40%increase in Intelligent Labels in the segment, including the
8 2021 Annual Report |Avery Dennison CorporationManagement’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations
benefit of our Smartrac acquisition. The substantial
majority of our sales of Intelligent Labels is reported withinour RBIS reportable segment. On an organic basis, sales inthe segment related to Intelligent Labels increased by amid-single digit rate. Company-wide, sales of Intelligent
Labels increased on an organic basis at a high-single digit
rate.
Operating Income
Operating income increased in 2021 compared to
2020 primarily due to higher volume, including the impact
of acquisitions, benefits from productivity initiatives,including savings from restructuring actions, net oftransition costs, and lower restructuring charges, partiallyoffset by higher employee-related costs, the impact of
prior-year temporary cost reduction actions, growth
investments, outcomes of legal proceedings, and highertransaction and related costs.
Operating income decreased in 2020 compared to
2019 primarily due to lower volume, higher long-term
growth-related investments, including costs associatedwith our Smartrac acquisition, higher restructuringcharges and increased allowance for credit losses, partiallyoffset by benefits from productivity initiatives, including
temporary cost reduction actions and savings from
restructuring actions, net of transition costs.
Industrial and Healthcare Materials
(In millions) 2021 2020 2019
Net sales including intersegment
sales $789.4 $631.9 $682.7
Less intersegment sales (13.3) (6.4) (8.8)
Net sales $776.1 $625.5 $673.9
Operating income(1) 81.6 58.2 60.0
(1)Included charges associated with
restructuring actions in all years andtransaction and related costs and gain on
sale of assets in 2021.
$ 2.4 $ 8.4 $ 9.4
Net Sales
The factors impacting reported sales change are
shown in the table below.
2021 2020
Reported sales change 24% (7)%
Foreign currency translation (4) –
Extra week impact 2 (2)
Sales change ex. currency(1) 22 (9)
Acquisitions (4) –
Organic sales change(1) 18% (9)%
(1)Totals may not sum due to roundingIn 2021, net sales increased on an organic basis
compared to the same period in the prior year primarilydue to an increase over 20% in industrial categories and a
low-single digit rate increase in healthcare categories,
partially due to the recovery from the prior-period impactof COVID-19.
In 2020, net sales decreased on an organic basis due
to a high single-digit rate decline in industrial categoriesand a mid-single digit decline in healthcare categories due
to lower demand as a result of the impact of COVID-19.
Operating Income
Operating income increased in 2021 compared to
2020 primarily due to higher volume/mix and lower
restructuring charges, partially offset by the impact ofprior-year temporary cost reduction actions, the netimpact of higher sales prices, higher raw material costs,and higher freight costs and higher employee-related
costs.
Operating income decreased in 2020 compared to
2019 primarily due to lower volume, partially offset bybenefits from productivity initiatives, including temporary
cost reduction actions and savings from restructuring
actions, net of transition costs.
FINANCIAL CONDITION
Liquidity
Operating Activities
(In millions) 2021 2020 2019
Net income $ 740.1 $555.9 $ 303.6
Depreciation 167.3 154.2 140.3Amortization 76.8 51.1 38.7Provision for credit losses and
sales returns 35.7 64.0 58.7
Stock-based compensation 37.2 24.0 34.5Pension plan settlements and
related charges 1.6 .5 444.1
Deferred taxes and other
non-cash taxes 2.6 9.3 (216.9)
Other non-cash expense and
loss (income and gain), net 10.1 44.9 28.3
Trade accounts receivable (113.2) 14.7 (42.2)Inventories (182.7) (6.0) (18.1)Accounts payable 255.2 (68.2) 46.4Taxes on income (7.3) (35.2) 5.4Other assets 4.1 18.2 38.4Other liabilities 19.3 (76.1) (114.7)Net cash provided by operating
activities $1,046.8 $751.3 $ 746.5
Avery Dennison Corporation |2021 Annual Report 9Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations
In 2021, cash flow provided by operating activities
increased compared to 2020 primarily due to higher netincome, changes in operational working capital and lowerseverance payments related to restructuring actions,partially offset by higher income tax payments, net of
refunds.
In 2020, cash flow provided by operating activities
increased compared to 2019 primarily due to higher netincome, lower pension plan contributions, lower incentivecompensation payments and lower severance paymentsrelated to restructuring actions, partially offset by higher
income tax payments, net of refunds, and changes in
operational working capital primarily related to the timingof vendor payments.
Investing Activities
(In millions) 2021 2020 2019
Purchases of property, plant
and equipment $ (255.0) $(201.4) $(219.4)
Purchases of software and
other deferred charges (17.1) (17.2) (37.8)
Proceeds from sales of
property, plant andequipment 1.1 9.2 7.8
Proceeds from insurance and
sales (purchases) ofinvestments, net 3.1 5.6 4.9
Proceeds from sale of product
line 7.6 – –
Payments for acquisitions, net
of cash acquired, andinvestments in businesses (1,477.6) (350.4) (6.5)
Net cash used in investing
activities $(1,737.9) $(554.2) $(251.0)
Purchases of Property, Plant and Equipment
In 2021, we invested in equipment to support growth
in the U.S. and certain countries in Europe and Asia Pacific
for our LGM reportable segment, in the U.S. for our IHM
reportable segment, and in the U.S. and certain countriesin Asia Pacific for our RBIS reportable segment. In 2020and 2019, we invested in equipment and expandedmanufacturing facilities to support growth, and
productivity improvement primarily in the U.S. and certain
countries in Asia Pacific, including Thailand, India, andChina, for our LGM reportable segment and in China, the
U.S., and Malaysia for our RBIS reportable segment.
Purchases of Software and Other Deferred Charges
In 2021, 2020 and 2019, we invested in information
technology upgrades worldwide. In 2019, we also
invested in enterprise resource planning systemimplementations in North America.
Proceeds from Sales of Property, Plant and Equipment
In 2021, the majority of the proceeds from sales of
property, plant and equipment was related to the sale ofequipment in Asia Pacific. In 2020, the majority of theproceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment was
related to the sale of a property in Europe. In 2019, the
majority of the proceeds from sales of property, plant andequipment was related to the sale of three properties inNorth America, Asia Pacific and Europe.
Proceeds from Insurance and Sales (Purchases) of
Investments, Net
In 2021, we had lower proceeds from insurance
associated with our company-owned life insurance
policies.
Proceeds from Sale of Product Line
In 2021, proceeds from the sale of a product line
were in our LGM reportable segment.
Payments for Acquisitions, Net of Cash Acquired, and
Investments in Businesses
In 2021, we paid consideration, net of cash acquired,
of approximately $1.44 billion and $32 million for the
Vestcom acquisition and Other 2021 Acquisitions,respectively. We funded the Vestcom acquisition usingthe net proceeds from the $500 million and $300 million
senior notes we issued in August 2021, commercial paper
borrowings and cash. We funded the Other 2021Acquisitions using cash and commercial paperborrowings. In 2020, we paid consideration, net of cashacquired, of approximately $255 million to acquire
Smartrac, which we initially funded through commercial
paper borrowings, and approximately $88 million toacquire ACPO. We also made certain venture investmentsin 2021, 2020 and 2019.
Refer to Note 2, “Acquisitions,” to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for more information.
10 2021 Annual Report |Avery Dennison CorporationManagement’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Financing Activities
(In millions) 2021 2020 2019
Net increase (decrease) in
borrowings with maturities ofthree months or less $ 259.2 $(110.4) $ (5.3)
Additional borrowings under
revolving credit facility – 500.0 –
Repayments of borrowings
under revolving credit facility – (500.0) –
Additional long-term borrowings 791.7 493.7 –Repayments of long-term debt
and finance leases (13.4) (270.2) (18.6)
Dividends paid (220.6) (196.8) (189.7)Share repurchases (180.9) (104.3) (237.7)Net (tax withholding) proceeds
related to stock-basedcompensation (25.4) (19.7) (17.4)
Other (6.3) – (1.6)
Net cash provided by (used in)
financing activities $ 604.3 $(207.7) $(470.3)
Borrowings and Repayment of Debt
During 2021, 2020, and 2019, our commercial paper
borrowings were used to fund acquisitions, dividend
payments, share repurchases, capital expenditures and
other general corporate purposes.
In August 2021, we issued $500 million of senior
notes, due February 15, 2032, which bear an interest rateof 2.250%, payable semiannually in arrears. Our net
proceeds from the issuance, after deducting underwriting
discounts and offering expenses, were $493.7 million.Additionally, in August 2021, we issued $300 million ofsenior notes, due August 15, 2024, which we can repay
without penalty on or after August 15, 2022 and bear an
interest rate of 0.850%, payable semiannually in arrears.Our net proceeds from this issuance, after deductingunderwriting discounts and offering expenses, were $298million. We used the net proceeds from these two debt
issuances to finance a portion of the Vestcom acquisition.
During 2020, commercial paper borrowings were also
used for the Smartrac acquisition, with those borrowingssubsequently repaid using a portion of the net proceeds of$493.7 million from the $500 million of senior notes we
issued in March 2020. We used the remaining proceeds
from these notes to repay the $250 million aggregateprincipal amount of senior notes that matured in April2020. We also repaid $15 million of medium-term notes
that matured in June 2020.
In the first quarter of 2020, in light of uncertainty as a
result of COVID-19 regarding the availability ofcommercial paper, which we typically rely upon to fundour day-to-day operational needs, and the relatively
favorable terms under our recently-extended $800 million
revolving credit facility (the “Revolver”), we borrowed$500 million from the Revolver with a six-month duration.We repaid this amount in June 2020.
Refer to Note 2, “Acquisitions,” and Note 4, “Debt,” to
the Consolidated Financial Statements for more
information.
Dividends Paid
We paid dividends per share of $2.66, $2.36 and
$2.26 in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. In April
2021, we increased our quarterly dividend rate to $.68 pershare, representing an increase of approximately 10%from our previous quarterly dividend rate of $.62 per
share. In October 2020, we increased our quarterly
dividend to $.62 per share, representing an increase ofapproximately 7% from our previous dividend rate of $.58per share.
Share Repurchases
From time to time, our Board authorizes the
repurchase of shares of our outstanding common stock.Repurchased shares may be reissued under our long-term
incentive plan or used for other corporate purposes. In
2021, 2020 and 2019, we repurchased approximately.9 million, .8 million and 2 million shares of our commonstock, respectively. We temporarily paused sharerepurchase activity in March 2020 as a result of
COVID-19 and resumed repurchases late in the third
quarter of 2020.
In April 2019, our Board authorized the repurchase of
shares of our common stock with a fair market value of up
to $650 million, excluding any fees, commissions or other
expenses related to such purchases, in addition to theamount outstanding under our previous Boardauthorization. Board authorizations remain in effect untilshares in the amount authorized thereunder have been
repurchased. As of January 1, 2022, shares of our
common stock in the aggregate amount of $359.6 millionremained authorized for repurchase under this Boardauthorization.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2021 Annual Report 11Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Net (Tax Withholding) Proceeds Related to Stock-Based
Compensation
In 2021, tax withholding for stock-based
compensation increased compared to 2020 primarily as aresult of equity awards vesting at higher share prices. In
2020, proceeds from stock option exercises decreased
compared to 2019, with tax withholding for stock-basedcompensation also decreasing, primarily as a result oflower vesting of equity awards.
Approximately .02 million, .05 million and .3 million
stock options were exercised in 2021, 2020 and 2019,
respectively. Refer to Note 12, “Long-Term Incentive
Compensation,” to the Consolidated Financial Statementsfor more information.
Analysis of Selected Balance Sheet Accounts
Long-lived Assets
Property, plant and equipment, net, increased by
approximately $134 million to $1.48 billion at year-end
2021, which primarily reflected purchases of property,
plant and equipment and the acquisitions of Vestcom andthe Other 2021 Acquisitions, partially offset bydepreciation expense and the impact of foreign currencytranslation.
Goodwill increased by approximately $745 million to
$1.88 billion at year-end 2021, which reflected acquiredgoodwill associated with the acquisition of Vestcom andthe Other 2021 Acquisitions, partially offset by the impact
of foreign currency translation.
Other intangibles resulting from business
acquisitions, net, increased by approximately $687 millionto $911 million at year-end 2021, which reflected thevaluations of other intangibles from the acquisitions of
Vestcom and the Other 2021 Acquisitions, partially offset
by amortization expense and the impact of foreigncurrency translation.
Refer to Note 3, “Goodwill and Other Intangibles
Resulting from Business Acquisitions,” to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.
Shareholders’ Equity Accounts
The balance of our shareholders’ equity increased by
approximately $440 million to $1.92 billion at year-end2021. Refer to Note 11, “Supplemental Equity andComprehensive Income Information,” to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for more information.
Impact of Foreign Currency Translation
(In millions) 2021 2020
Change in net sales $201 $ (67)
In 2021, international operations generated
approximately 75% of our net sales. Our future results aresubject to changes in political and economic conditions in
the regions in which we operate and the impact of
fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and interestrates.
The favorable impact of foreign currency translation
on net sales in 2021 compared to 2020 was primarily
related to euro-denominated sales and sales in China.
Effect of Foreign Currency Transactions
The impact on net income from transactions
denominated in foreign currencies is largely mitigatedbecause the costs of our products are generally
denominated in the same currencies in which they are
sold. In addition, to reduce our income and cash flowexposure to transactions in foreign currencies, we enterinto foreign exchange forward, option and swap contractswhere available and appropriate. Refer to Note 5,
“Financial Instruments,” to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for more information.
Analysis of Selected Financial Ratios
We utilize the financial ratios discussed below to
assess our financial condition and operating performance.We believe this information assists our investors in
understanding the drivers impacting our cash flow other
than net income and capital expenditures.
Operational Working Capital Ratio
Operational working capital, as a percentage of
annualized current-quarter net sales, is reconciled toworking capital below. Our objective is to minimize ourinvestment in operational working capital, as a percentageof annualized current-quarter net sales, to maximize our
cash flow and return on investment. Operational working
capital, as a percentage of annualized current-quarter net
12 2021 Annual Report |Avery Dennison CorporationManagement’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations
sales, in 2021 was lower compared to 2020. Further
discussion of the components of operational workingcapital is provided below.
(In millions, except percentages) 2021 2020
(A) Working capital $ 186.7 $ 490.2
Reconciling items:
Cash and cash equivalents (162.7) (252.3)Other current assets (240.2) (211.5)Short-term borrowings and current
portion of long-term debt andfinance leases 318.8 64.7
Current income taxes payable and
other current accrued liabilities 930.3 810.4
(B) Operational working capital $1,032.9 $ 901.5
(C) Fourth-quarter net sales, annualized $8,732.8 $7,394.8
Operational working capital, as a
percentage of annualized current-quarter net sales (B) ÷ (C) 11.8% 12.2%
Accounts Receivable Ratio
The average number of days sales outstanding was 59
days in 2021 compared to 61 days in 2020, calculated using
the accounts receivable balance at year-end divided by the
average daily sales in the fourth quarter of 2021 and 2020,respectively. The decrease in average number of days salesoutstanding was primarily due to higher volume and theimpact of foreign currency translation, partially offset by the
timing of collections and the impact of acquisitions.
Inventory Ratio
Average inventory turnover was 7.0 in 2021
compared to 7.5 in 2020, calculated using the annualizedfourth-quarter cost of products sold in 2021 and 2020,respectively, and divided by the inventory balance at therespective year-end. The decrease in average inventory
turnover primarily reflected inventory build to manage
supply chain disruptions and anticipated increaseddemand.
Accounts Payable Ratio
The average number of days payable outstanding
was 74 days in 2021 compared to 73 days in 2020,calculated using the accounts payable balance at year-enddivided by the annualized fourth-quarter cost of products
sold in 2021 and 2020, respectively. The increase in the
average number of days payable outstanding from theprior year primarily reflected the impact of higher accountspayable balances due to our inventory build to managesupply chain disruptions and anticipated increaseddemand, partially offset by the impact of acquisitions and
foreign currency translation.
Capital Resources
Capital resources include cash flows from operations,
cash and cash equivalents and debt financing, includingaccess to commercial paper supported by our Revolver.We use these resources to fund operational needs.
At year-end 2021, we had cash and cash equivalents
of $162.7 million held in accounts at third-party financial
institutions. Our cash balances are held in numerous
locations throughout the world. At year-end 2021, themajority of our cash and cash equivalents was held by ourforeign subsidiaries, primarily in Asia Pacific and Europe.
To meet U.S. cash requirements, we have several
cost-effective liquidity options available. These optionsinclude borrowing funds at reasonable rates, includingborrowings from foreign subsidiaries, and repatriatingforeign earnings and profits. However, if we were torepatriate foreign earnings and profits, a portion would be
subject to cash payments of withholding taxes imposed
by foreign tax authorities. Additional U.S. taxes may alsoresult from the impact of foreign currency movementsrelated to these earnings and profits. Refer to Note 14,“Taxes Based on Income,” to the Consolidated FinancialStatements for more information.
In February 2020, we amended and restated the
Revolver, eliminating one of the financial covenants andextending its maturity date to February 13, 2025. Thematurity date may be further extended for a one-year
period under certain circumstances. The commitments
under the Revolver may be increased by up to $400million, subject to lender approvals and customaryrequirements. The Revolver is used as a back-up facilityfor our commercial paper program and can be used forother corporate purposes.
The Revolver contains a financial covenant that
requires us to maintain a maximum leverage ratio
(calculated as a ratio of consolidated debt to consolidated
EBITDA as defined in the agreement) of not more than3.50 to 1.00; provided that, in the event of an acquisitionby us that exceeds $250 million, which occurred when weacquired Vestcom, the maximum leverage ratio increases
to 4.00 to 1.00 for the fiscal quarter in which the
acquisition occurs and three consecutive fiscal quartersimmediately following that fiscal quarter. As of January 1,2022 and January 2, 2021, our ratio was substantiallybelow the maximum ratio allowed by the Revolver.
In addition to the Revolver, we have significant short-
term lines of credit available in various countries ofapproximately $358 million in the aggregate at January 2,2021. These lines may be cancelled at any time by us or
Avery Dennison Corporation |2021 Annual Report 13Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations
the issuing banks. Short-term borrowings outstanding
under our lines of credit were $11.2 million and $22.2million at January 2, 2021 and January 2, 2021,respectively, with a weighted average interest rate of4.97% and 3.6%, respectively. Refer to Note 4, “Debt,” to
the Consolidated Financial Statements for more
information.
We are exposed to financial market risk resulting
from changes in interest and foreign currency rates, and topossible liquidity and credit risks of our counterparties.
Capital from Debt
The carrying value of our total debt increased by
approximately $988 million to $3.10 billion at year-end2021 compared to $2.12 billion at year-end 2020,
primarily reflecting our issuance of the $500 million and
$300 million senior notes in August 2021 and a netincrease in commercial paper borrowings.
Credit ratings are a significant factor in our ability to
raise short- and long-term financing. The credit ratings
assigned to us also impact the interest rates we pay andour access to commercial paper, credit facilities, and otherborrowings. A downgrade of our short-term credit ratingscould impact our ability to access commercial paper
markets. If our access to commercial paper markets were
to become limited, as it did in the first quarter of 2020 as aresult of COVID-19 when we drew down on the Revolver,we believe that the Revolver and our other credit facilities
would be available to meet our short-term fundingrequirements. When determining our credit rating, we
believe that rating agencies primarily consider our
competitive position, business outlook, consistency ofcash flows, debt level and liquidity, geographic dispersionand management team. There has been no change to thecredit ratings assigned to us as a result of COVID-19. We
remain committed to maintaining an investment grade
rating.
Fair Value of Debt
The estimated fair value of our long-term debt is
primarily based on the credit spread above U.S. Treasurysecurities or euro government bond securities, asapplicable, on notes with similar rates, credit ratings andremaining maturities. The fair value of short-term
borrowings, which includes commercial paper issuances
and short-term lines of credit, approximates their carryingvalue given their short duration. The fair value of our totaldebt was $3.25 billion at January 1, 2022 and $2.34billion at January 2, 2021. Fair value amounts were
determined based primarily on Level 2 inputs, which are
inputs other than quoted prices in active markets that areeither directly or indirectly observable. Refer to Note 1,“Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.
Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
Material Cash Requirements at End of Year 2021
Payments Due by Period
(In millions) Total 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 Thereafter
Short-term borrowings $ 313.2 $313.2 $ – $ – $ – $ – $ –
Long-term debt 2,795.3 – 250.0 300.0 595.3 – 1,650.0Interest on long-term debt 537.0 75.1 71.0 66.8 64.0 54.9 205.2Finance leases 18.3 6.1 5.3 5.0 1.7 .2 –Operating leases 204.4 51.5 40.1 29.8 22.9 14.4 45.7
Total contractual obligations $3,868.2 $445.9 $366.4 $401.6 $683.9 $69.5 $ 1,900.9
The table above does not include:
• Purchase obligations or open purchase orders at
year-end – It is impracticable for us to obtain or
provide a reasonable estimate of this information
due to the decentralized nature of our purchasingsystems. In addition, purchase orders are generallyentered into at fair value and cancelable withoutpenalty.
• Cash funding requirements for pension benefits
payable to certain eligible current and future retireesunder our funded plans – Benefits under our funded
pension plans are paid through trusts or trustequivalents. Cash funding requirements for ourfunded plans, which can be significantly impacted by
earnings on investments, the discount rate, changes
in the plans, and funding laws and regulations, arenot included as we are not able to estimate requiredcontributions to the trusts or trust equivalents. Referto Note 6, “Pension and Other Postretirement
Benefits,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements
14 2021 Annual Report |Avery Dennison CorporationManagement’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations
for information regarding our expected contributions
to these plans and plan terminations and settlements.
• Pension and postretirement benefit payments – We
have unfunded benefit obligations related todefined benefit plans. Refer to Note 6, “Pension
and Other Postretirement Benefits,” to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for moreinformation, including our expected benefitpayments over the next 10 years.
• Deferred compensation plan benefit payments – It
is impracticable for us to obtain a reasonable
estimate for 2022 and beyond due to the volatility
of payment amounts and certain events that couldtrigger immediate payment of benefits toparticipants. In addition, participant accountbalances are marked-to-market monthly and
benefit payments are adjusted annually. Refer to
Note 6, “Pension and Other PostretirementBenefits,” to the Consolidated Financial Statementsfor more information.
• Cash-based awards to employees under incentive
compensation plans – The amounts to be paid to
employees under these awards are based on ourstock price and, as applicable, achievement ofcertain performance objectives as of the end of their
respective performance periods. Therefore, we
cannot reasonably estimate the amounts to be paidon the respective vesting dates. Refer to Note 12,“Long-term Incentive Compensation,” to theConsolidated Financial Statements for more
information.
• Unfunded termination indemnity benefits to certain
employees outside of the U.S. – These benefits aresubject to applicable agreements, local laws andregulations; however, the timing of these payments
cannot be reasonably estimated. Refer to Note 6,
“Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits,” to theConsolidated Financial Statements for moreinformation.
• Unrecognized tax benefits of $74 million – The
resolution of the balance, including the timing ofpayments, is contingent upon various unknownfactors and cannot be reasonably estimated. Referto Note 14, “Taxes Based on Income,” to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for more
information.CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES
The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with GAAP requires our management to make estimatesand assumptions for the reporting period and as of the
financial statement date. These estimates and
assumptions affect our reported amounts of assets andliabilities, disclosure of contingent liabilities and reportedamounts of revenue and expense. Actual results coulddiffer from these estimates.
Critical accounting estimates are those that are
important to our financial condition and results, and which
require us to make difficult, subjective and/or complexjudgments. Critical accounting estimates cover accountingmatters that are inherently uncertain because their futureresolution is unknown. We believe our critical accounting
estimates include accounting for goodwill, businesscombinations, pension and postretirement benefits, taxes
based on income and long-term incentive compensation.
Goodwill
Business combinations are accounted for using the
acquisition method, with the excess of the acquisition costover the fair value of net tangible assets and identified
intangible assets acquired considered goodwill. As a
result, we disclose goodwill separately from otherintangible assets. Our reporting units are composed ofeither a discrete business or an aggregation of businesseswith similar economic characteristics.
We perform an annual impairment test of goodwill
during the fourth quarter. Certain factors may cause us toperform an impairment test prior to the fourth quarter,including significant underperformance of a business
relative to expected operating results, significant adverse
economic and industry trends, significant decline in ourmarket capitalization for an extended period of timerelative to net book value, or a decision to divest a portionof a reporting unit. In performing impairment tests, we
have the option to first assess qualitative factors to
determine whether it is necessary to perform aquantitative assessment for goodwill impairment. If thequalitative assessment indicates that it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than
its carrying value, we perform a quantitative assessment.
A quantitative assessment primarily consists of a
present value (discounted cash flow) method to determinethe fair value of reporting units with goodwill. Wecompare the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying
amount, and, to the extent the carrying amount exceeds
the unit’s fair value, we recognize an impairment ofgoodwill for the excess up to the amount of goodwill of
Avery Dennison Corporation |2021 Annual Report 15Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations
that reporting unit. In consultation with outside specialists,
we estimate the fair value of our reporting units usingvarious valuation techniques, with the primary techniquebeing a discounted cash flow analysis. A discounted cashflow analysis requires us to make various assumptions
about our reporting units, including their respective
forecasted sales, operating margins and growth rates, aswell as discount rates. Our assumptions about discountrates are based on the weighted average cost of capitalfor comparable companies. Our assumptions about sales,operating margins and growth rates are based on our
forecasts, business plans, economic projections,
anticipated future cash flows, and marketplace data. Wealso make assumptions for varying perpetual growth ratesfor periods beyond the long-term business plan period.We base our fair value estimates on projected financial
information and assumptions that we believe are
reasonable. However, actual future results may materiallydiffer from these estimates and projections. The valuationmethodology we use to estimate the fair value ofreporting units requires inputs and assumptions that
reflect current market conditions, as well as the impact of
planned business and operational strategies that requiremanagement judgment. The estimated fair value couldincrease or decrease depending on changes in the inputs
and assumptions.
In our annual impairment analysis in the fourth quarter
of 2021, the goodwill of all reporting units in our LGM,
RBIS, and IHM reportable segments, were tested utilizing a
qualitative assessment. Based on this assessment, we
determined that the fair values of these reporting units
were more-likely-than-not greater than their respective
carrying values. Therefore, the goodwill of our reporting
units was not impaired.
Business Combinations
The results of acquired businesses are included in our
Consolidated Financial Statements from their acquisitiondate. Assets and liabilities of an acquired business are
recorded at their estimated fair values on the acquisition
date. We engage third-party valuation specialists to assistus in determining these fair values as necessary. Anyexcess consideration over the fair value of assets acquiredand liabilities assumed is recognized as goodwill.
The allocation of purchase price requires
management to make significant estimates andassumptions. While we believe our assumptions andestimates are reasonable, they are inherently uncertainand based in part on experience, market conditions,
projections of future performance and information
obtained from management of the acquired companies.Critical estimates include, but are not limited to, the
following:
• future revenue and profit margins;
• royalty rates;
• discount rates;• customer retention rates;• technology migration curves; and• useful lives assigned to acquired intangible assets.
Acquired identifiable finite-lived intangible assets are
amortized on a straight-line basis over their respectiveestimated useful lives to marketing, general andadministrative expense.
Pension and Postretirement Benefits
Our assumptions used in determining projected
benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets for ourdefined benefit pension plans and other postretirement
benefit plans are evaluated by management in
consultation with outside actuaries. In the event that wedetermine that changes are warranted in the assumptionswe use, such as the discount rate, expected long-term rateof return or health care costs, future pension and
postretirement benefit expenses could increase or
decrease. Due to changes in market conditions orparticipant population, the actuarial assumptions we usemay differ from actual results, which could have a
significant impact on our pension and postretirement
liability and related costs.
Discount Rate
In consultation with our actuaries, we annually review
and determine the discount rates we use in valuing ourpostretirement obligations. Our assumed discount ratesfor our international pension plans reflect market rates forhigh quality corporate bonds currently available. Our
discount rates are determined by evaluating yield curves
consisting of large populations of high quality corporatebonds. The projected pension benefit payment streamsare then matched with the bond portfolios to determine a
rate that reflects the liability duration unique to our
pension and postretirement benefit plans. As of January 1,2022, a .25% increase in the discount rates associatedwith our international plans would have decreased ouryear-end projected benefit obligation by $44 million anddecreased expected periodic benefit cost for the coming
year by approximately $1 million. Conversely, a .25%
decrease in the discount rates associated with ourinternational plans would have increased our year-endprojected benefit obligation by approximately $44 millionand increased expected periodic benefit cost for the
coming year by approximately $2 million.
16 2021 Annual Report |Avery Dennison CorporationManagement’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations
We use the full yield curve approach to estimate the
service and interest cost components of net periodicbenefit cost for our pension and other postretirementbenefit plans. Using this approach, we apply multiplediscount rates from a yield curve composed of the rates ofreturn on several hundred high-quality, fixed incomecorporate bonds available at the measurement date. Webelieve this approach provides a more precisemeasurement of service and interest cost by aligning thetiming of these plans’ liability cash flows to thecorresponding rates on the yield curve.
Long-term Return on Plan Assets
We determine the long-term rate of return assumption
for plan assets by reviewing the historical and expected
returns of both the equity and fixed income markets, taking
into account our asset allocation, the correlation betweenreturns in our asset classes, and our mix of active andpassive investments. Additionally, current market conditions,including interest rates, are evaluated and market data isreviewed for reasonableness and appropriateness. Anincrease or decrease of .25% on the long-term return onassets associated with our international plans would havedecreased or increased our periodic benefit cost for thecoming year by approximately $2 million.
Taxes Based on Income
We are subject to income tax in the U.S. and multiple
foreign jurisdictions, whereby judgment is required inevaluating and estimating our worldwide provision,accruals for taxes, deferred taxes and for evaluating ourtax positions. Our provision for (benefit from) incometaxes is determined using the asset and liability approachin accordance with GAAP. Deferred tax assets representamounts available to reduce income taxes payable infuture years. These assets arise because of temporarydifferences between the financial reporting and tax basesof assets and liabilities, as well as from net operatinglosses and tax credit carryforwards. These amounts areadjusted, as appropriate, to reflect changes in tax ratesexpected to be in effect when the temporary differencesreverse. We evaluate the realizability of these future taxdeductions and credits by assessing the period over whichrecoverability is allowed by law and the adequacy offuture expected taxable income from all sources, includingreversal of taxable temporary differences, forecastedoperating earnings and available tax planning strategies.Our assessment of these sources of income relies heavilyon estimates. Our forecasted earnings by jurisdiction aredetermined by how we operate our business and anychanges to our operations may affect our effective taxrate. For example, our future income tax rate could beadversely affected by earnings being lower thananticipated in jurisdictions in which we have significant
deferred tax assets that are dependent on such earningsto be realized. We use historical experience along withoperating forecasts to evaluate expected future taxableincome. To the extent we do not consider it more-likely-than-not that a deferred tax asset will be recovered, avaluation allowance is established in the period we makethat determination.
We calculate our current and deferred tax provision
based on estimates and assumptions that could differfrom the actual results reflected in income tax returns filedin subsequent years. Adjustments based on filed returnsare recorded when identified.
Tax laws and regulations are complex and subject to
different interpretations by taxpayers and governmental
taxing authorities. We review our tax positions quarterlyand adjust the balances if and as new informationbecomes available. Significant judgment is required indetermining our tax expense and evaluating our taxpositions, including evaluating uncertainties. Our estimateof the potential outcome of any uncertain tax issue issubject to our assessment of relevant facts andcircumstances existing at the balance sheet date, takinginto consideration existing laws, regulations and practicesof the governmental authorities exercising jurisdiction over
our operations. We recognize and measure our uncertain
tax positions following the more-likely-than-not thresholdfor recognition and measurement for tax positions we takeor expect to take on a tax return. For example, wecontinue to monitor developments regarding the EuropeanCommission state aid investigations for jurisdictions inwhich we have significant operations, such as theNetherlands and Luxembourg.
Refer to Note 14, “Taxes Based on Income,” to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.
Long-Term Incentive Compensation
Valuation of Stock-Based Awards
We base our stock-based compensation expense on
the fair value of awards, adjusted for estimated forfeitures,
amortized on a straight-line basis over the requisite
service period for stock options and restricted stock units(“RSUs”). We base compensation expense forperformance units (“PUs”) on the fair value of awards,adjusted for estimated forfeitures, and amortized on a
straight-line basis as these awards cliff-vest at the end of
the requisite service period. We base compensationexpense related to market-leveraged stock units (“MSUs”)on the fair value of awards, adjusted for estimatedforfeitures, and amortized on a graded-vesting basis over
their respective performance periods.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2021 Annual Report 17Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Compensation expense for awards with a market
condition as a performance objective, which includes PUsand MSUs, is not adjusted if the condition is not met, aslong as the requisite service period is met.
We determine the fair value of RSUs and the component
of PUs that is subject to the achievement of a performanceobjective based on a financial performance condition based
on the fair market value of our common stock as of the date of
the grant, adjusted for foregone dividends. Over theperformance period of the PUs, the estimated number ofshares of our common stock issuable upon vesting is adjustedupward or downward based on the probability of achievingthe performance objectives established for the award.
We determine the fair value of stock-based awards
that are subject to achievement of performance objectivesbased on a market condition, which includes MSUs and
the other component of PUs, using the Monte-Carlo
simulation model, which utilizes multiple input variables,including expected stock price volatility and otherassumptions appropriate for determining fair value, toestimate the probability of satisfying the respective target
performance objectives established for the award.
Forfeiture Rate
Changes in estimated forfeiture rates are recorded as
cumulative adjustments in the period estimates arerevised.
Certain of our assumptions are based on
management’s estimates, in consultation with outside
specialists. Significant changes in assumptions for future
awards and actual forfeiture rates could materially impactour stock-based compensation expense and results ofoperations.
Valuation of Cash-Based Awards
Cash-based awards consist of long-term incentive
units (“LTI Units”) granted to eligible employees. LTI Unitsare classified as liability awards and remeasured at each
quarter-end over the applicable vesting or performance
period. In addition to LTI Units with terms and conditionsthat mirror those of RSUs, we also grant certainemployees LTI Units with terms and conditions that mirrorthose of PUs and MSUs.
RECENT ACCOUNTING REQUIREMENTS
Refer to Note 1, “Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements for thisinformation.MARKET-SENSITIVE INSTRUMENTS AND RISK
MANAGEMENT
Risk Management
We are exposed to the impact of changes in foreign
currency exchange rates and interest rates. We generallydo not purchase or hold foreign currency or interest rate or
commodity contracts for trading purposes.
Our objective in managing our exposure to foreign
currency changes is to reduce the risk to our earnings andcash flow associated with foreign exchange rate changes.As a result, we enter into foreign exchange forward,option and swap contracts to reduce risks associated with
the value of our existing foreign currency assets, liabilities,
firm commitments and anticipated foreign revenues andcosts, when available and appropriate. The gains andlosses on these contracts are intended to offset changes
in the related exposures. We do not hedge our foreign
currency translation exposure in a manner that wouldentirely eliminate the effects of changes in foreignexchange rates on our net income.
Our objective in managing our exposure to interest
rate changes is to reduce the impact of interest rate
changes on earnings and cash flows. To achieve thisobjective, we may periodically use interest rate contractsto manage our exposure to interest rate changes.
Additionally, we enter into certain natural gas futures
contracts to reduce the risks associated with natural gas
we anticipate using in our manufacturing operations. Theseamounts are not material to our financial statements.
In the normal course of operations, we also face other
risks that are either non-financial or non-quantifiable.
These risks principally include changes in economic orpolitical conditions, other risks associated with foreignoperations, commodity price risk, and litigation andcompliance risk, which are not reflected in the analyses
described below.
18 2021 Annual Report |Avery Dennison CorporationManagement’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Foreign Exchange Value-At-Risk
We use a Value-At-Risk (“VAR”) model to determine
the estimated maximum potential one-day loss in earningsassociated with our foreign exchange positions and
contracts. This approach assumes that market rates or
prices for foreign exchange positions and contracts arenormally distributed. VAR model estimates are madeassuming normal market conditions. The model includesforeign exchange derivative contracts. Forecastedtransactions, firm commitments, accounts receivable and
accounts payable denominated in foreign currencies,
which certain of these instruments are intended to hedge,are excluded from the model.
The VAR model is a risk analysis tool and does not
represent actual losses in fair value that we could incur,nor does it consider the potential effect of favorablechanges in market factors.In both 2021 and 2020, the VAR was estimated
using a variance-covariance methodology. The currencycorrelation was based on one-year historical dataobtained from one of our domestic banks. A 95%
confidence level was used for a one-day time horizon.
The estimated maximum potential one-day loss in
earnings for our foreign exchange positions and contractswas not significant at year-end 2021 or 2020.
Interest Rate Sensitivity
In 2021 and 2020, an assumed 9 and 18 basis point,
respectively, increase in interest rates affecting ourvariable-rate borrowings (10% of our weighted average
interest rate on floating rate debt) would not have had a
significant impact on interest expense.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2021 Annual Report 19Consolidated Balance Sheets
(Dollars in millions, except per share amount)January 1,
2022January 2,
2021
Assets
Current assets:
Cash and cash equivalents $ 162.7 $ 252.3
Trade accounts receivable, less allowances of $33 and $44.6 at year-end 2021 and 2020, respectively 1,424.5 1,235.2Inventories 907.2 717.2
Other current assets 240.2 211.5
Total current assets 2,734.6 2,416.2
Property, plant and equipment, net 1,477.7 1,343.7
Goodwill 1,881.5 1,136.4
Other intangibles resulting from business acquisitions, net 911.4 224.9Deferred tax assets 130.2 197.7
Other assets 836.2 765.0
$ 7,971.6 $ 6,083.9
Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity
Current liabilities:
Short-term borrowings and current portion of long-term debt and finance leases $ 318.8 $ 64.7Accounts payable 1,298.8 1,050.9
Accrued payroll and employee benefits 299.0 239.0
Accrued trade rebates 176.3 140.2
Income taxes payable 74.9 86.3
Other current liabilities 380.1 344.9
Total current liabilities 2,547.9 1,926.0
Long-term debt and finance leases 2,785.9 2,052.1
Long-term retirement benefits and other liabilities 474.9 503.6Deferred tax liabilities and income taxes payable 238.5 117.3Commitments and contingencies (see Notes 7 and 8)Shareholders’ equity:
Common stock, $1 par value per share, authorized – 400,000,000 shares at year-end 2021 and 2020;
issued – 124,126,624 shares at year-end 2021 and 2020; outstanding – 82,605,953 and 83,151,174shares at year-end 2021 and 2020, respectively 124.1 124.1
Capital in excess of par value 862.3 862.1
Retained earnings 3,880.7 3,349.3
Treasury stock at cost, 41,520,671 and 40,975,450 shares at year-end 2021 and 2020, respectively (2,659.8) (2,501.0)Accumulated other comprehensive loss (282.9) (349.6)
Total shareholders’ equity 1,924.4 1,484.9
$ 7,971.6 $ 6,083.9
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
20 2021 Annual Report |Avery Dennison CorporationConsolidated Statements of Income
(In millions, except per share amounts) 2021 2020 2019
Net sales $8,408.3 $6,971.5 $7,070.1
Cost of products sold 6,095.5 5,048.2 5,166.0
Gross profit 2,312.8 1,923.3 1,904.1
Marketing, general and administrative expense 1,248.5 1,060.5 1,080.4
Other expense (income), net 5.6 53.6 53.2
Interest expense 70.2 70.0 75.8
Other non-operating expense (income), net (4.1) 1.9 445.2
Income before taxes 992.6 737.3 249.5
Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 248.6 177.7 (56.7)Equity method investment (losses) gains (3.9) (3.7) (2.6)
Net income $ 740.1 $ 555.9 $ 303.6
Per share amounts:
Net income per common share $ 8.93 $ 6.67 $ 3.61
Net income per common share, assuming dilution $ 8.83 $ 6.61 $ 3.57
Weighted average number of shares outstanding:
Common shares 82.9 83.4 84.0
Common shares, assuming dilution 83.8 84.1 85.0
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Avery Dennison Corporation |2021 Annual Report 21Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
(In millions) 2021 2020 2019
Net income $ 740.1 $ 555.9 $ 303.6
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax:
Foreign currency translation:
Translation gain (loss) 30.7 (3.0) 2.3
Pension and other postretirement benefits:
Net gain recognized from actuarial gain/loss and prior service cost/credit 27.9 6.2 66.4Reclassifications to net income 4.4 2.9 266.1
Cash flow hedges:
Gains (losses) recognized on cash flow hedges 5.4 (7.5) .5Reclassifications to net income (1.7) (.1) (1.4)
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax 66.7 (1.5) 333.9
Total comprehensive income, net of tax $ 806.8 $ 554.4 $ 637.5
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
22 2021 Annual Report |Avery Dennison CorporationConsolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity
(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)Common
stock, $1
par valueCapital in
excess of
par valueRetained
earningsTreasury
stockAccumulated
other
comprehensive
loss Total
Balance as of December 29, 2018 $124.1 $872.0 $2,864.9 $(2,223.9) $(682.0) $ 955.1
Net income – – 303.6 – – 303.6Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax – – – – 333.9 333.9Repurchase of 2,222,937 shares for treasury – – – (237.7) – (237.7)Issuance of 665,380 shares under stock-based
compensation plans – 2.0 (13.6) 28.0 – 16.4
Contribution of 200,742 shares to 401(k) Plan – – 13.9 8.5 – 22.4Dividends of $2.26 per share – – (189.7) – – (189.7)
Balance as of December 28, 2019 $124.1 $874.0 $2,979.1 $(2,425.1) $(348.1) $1,204.0
Net income – – 555.9 – – 555.9Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax – – – – (1.5) (1.5)Repurchase of 792,997 shares for treasury – – – (104.3) – (104.3)Issuance of 389,102 shares under stock-based
compensation plans – (11.9) (3.4) 20.2 – 4.9
Contribution of 188,229 shares to 401(k) Plan – – 14.5 8.2 – 22.7Dividends of $2.36 per share – – (196.8) – – (196.8)
Balance as of January 2, 2021 $124.1 $862.1 $3,349.3 $(2,501.0) $(349.6) $1,484.9
Net income – – 740.1 – – 740.1Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax – – – – 66.7 66.7Repurchase of 925,425 shares for treasury – – – (180.9) – (180.9)Issuance of 257,189 shares under stock-based
compensation plans – .2 (7.2) 16.6 – 9.6
Contribution of 123,015 shares to 401(k) Plan – – 19.1 5.5 – 24.6Dividends of $2.66 per share – – (220.6) – – (220.6)
Balance as of January 1, 2022 $124.1 $862.3 $3,880.7 $(2,659.8) $(282.9) $1,924.4
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Avery Dennison Corporation |2021 Annual Report 23Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(In millions) 2021 2020 2019
Operating Activities
Net income $ 740.1 $ 555.9 $ 303.6
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:
Depreciation 167.3 154.2 140.3
Amortization 76.8 51.1 38.7
Provision for credit losses and sales returns 35.7 64.0 58.7Stock-based compensation 37.2 24.0 34.5
Pension plan settlements and related charges 1.6 .5 444.1Deferred taxes and other non-cash taxes 2.6 9.3 (216.9)Other non-cash expense and loss (income and gain), net 10.1 44.9 28.3
Changes in assets and liabilities and other adjustments:
Trade accounts receivable (113.2) 14.7 (42.2)
Inventories (182.7) (6.0) (18.1)
Accounts payable 255.2 (68.2) 46.4
Taxes on income (7.3) (35.2) 5.4
Other assets 4.1 18.2 38.4
Other liabilities 19.3 (76.1) (114.7)
Net cash provided by operating activities 1,046.8 751.3 746.5
Investing Activities
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (255.0) (201.4) (219.4)Purchases of software and other deferred charges (17.1) (17.2) (37.8)Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 1.1 9.2 7.8Proceeds from insurance and sales (purchases) of investments, net 3.1 5.6 4.9Proceeds from sale of product line 7.6 – –
Payments for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, and investments in businesses (1,477.6) (350.4) (6.5)
Net cash used in investing activities (1,737.9) (554.2) (251.0)
Financing Activities
Net increase (decrease) in borrowings with maturities of three months or less 259.2 (110.4) (5.3)Additional borrowings under revolving credit facility – 500.0 –Repayments of borrowings under revolving credit facility – (500.0) –Additional long-term borrowings 791.7 493.7 –Repayments of long-term debt and finance leases (13.4) (270.2) (18.6)Dividends paid (220.6) (196.8) (189.7)
Share repurchases (180.9) (104.3) (237.7)
Net (tax withholding) proceeds related to stock-based compensation (25.4) (19.7) (17.4)Other (6.3) – (1.6)
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 604.3 (207.7) (470.3)Effect of foreign currency translation on cash balances (2.8) 9.2 (3.5)Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (89.6) (1.4) 21.7
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year 252.3 253.7 232.0
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year $ 162.7 $ 252.3 $ 253.7
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
24 2021 Annual Report |Avery Dennison CorporationNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
NOTE 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING
POLICIES
Nature of Operations
Our businesses produce pressure-sensitive materials
and a variety of tickets, tags, labels and other convertedproducts. We sell most of our pressure-sensitive materials
to label printers and converters that convert the materials
into labels and other products through embossing,printing, stamping and die-cutting. We sell otherpressure-sensitive materials in converted form as tapesand reflective sheeting. We also manufacture and sell avariety of other converted products and items not
involving pressure-sensitive components, such as
fasteners, tickets, tags, radio-frequency identification(“RFID”) inlays and tags, imprinting equipment and relatedsolutions, and shelf-edge pricing, productivity, andconsumer engagement solutions.
Principles of Consolidation
Our Consolidated Financial Statements include the
accounts of majority-owned and controlled subsidiaries.Intercompany accounts, transactions, and profits are
eliminated in consolidation. We apply the equity method
of accounting for investments in which we havesignificant influence but not a controlling interest.
Fiscal Year
Our fiscal years generally consist of 52 weeks, but
every fifth or sixth fiscal year consists of 53 weeks; our2021 and 2019 fiscal years consisted of 52-week periods
ending January 1, 2022 and December 28, 2019,
respectively. Our 2020 fiscal year consisted of a 53-weekperiod ending January 2, 2021.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in theUnited States of America, or GAAP, requires management
to make estimates and assumptions for the reporting
period and as of the date of our financial statements.These estimates and assumptions affect the reportedamounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure ofcontingent liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue
and expense. The business and economic uncertainty
caused by the COVID-19 pandemic has made theseestimates and assumptions more difficult to determine. Asfuture events and their effect cannot be determined withprecision, actual results could differ significantly from
those estimates.Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents generally consist of cash
on hand, deposits in banks, cash-in-transit, and bankdrafts and short-term investments with maturities of three
months or less when purchased or received. The carrying
value of these assets approximates fair value due to theshort maturity of these instruments.
Inventories
We state inventories at the lower of cost or net
realizable value and categorized as raw materials,work-in-progress, or finished goods. Cost is determined
using the first-in, first-out method. We record inventory
that is damaged, obsolete, excess and slow-moving tocost of products sold and we establish a lower cost basisfor the inventory. Slow-moving inventory is reviewed bycategory and may be recognized partially or fully to cost of
products sold depending on the type of product, level of
usage, and length of time the product has been included ininventory.
Trade Accounts Receivable
We record trade accounts receivable at the invoiced
amount. Our allowance for credit losses reflects customertrade accounts receivable that are estimated to be partially
or entirely uncollectible. These allowances are used to
reduce gross trade receivables to their net realizablevalues. We record these allowances based on estimatesrelated to the following:
• The financial condition of customers;
• The aging of receivable balances;
• Our historical collection experience; and
• Current and expected future macroeconomic and
market conditions.
Property, Plant and Equipment
We generally compute depreciation using the
straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of therespective assets, ranging from ten to 45 years for
buildings and improvements and three to 15 years for
machinery and equipment. Leasehold improvements aredepreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the assetor the term of the associated leases. We expensemaintenance and repair costs as incurred; we capitalize
renewals and improvements. Upon the sale or retirement
of assets, the accounts are relieved of the cost and therelated accumulated depreciation, with any resulting gainor loss included in net income.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2021 Annual Report 25Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Leases
Our leases primarily relate to office and warehouse
space, machinery, transportation, and equipment for
information technology. We determine if an arrangement
is a lease or contains a lease at inception. For leaseaccounting purposes, we do not separate lease and
nonlease components, nor do we record operating or
finance lease assets and liabilities for short-term leases.We have options to renew or terminate some of ourleases. We evaluate renewal and termination options
based on considerations available at the lease
commencement date and over the lease term to determineif we are reasonably certain to exercise these options. As
most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use
our incremental borrowing rate based on the informationavailable at the lease commencement date to determine
the present value of lease payments. We recognize
expense for operating leases using a straight-line basisover the lease term, with variable lease paymentsrecognized in the periods in which they are incurred.
Software
We capitalize software costs incurred during the
application development stage of software development,
including costs incurred for design, coding, installation to
hardware, testing, and upgrades and enhancements thatprovide the software or hardware with additional
functionalities and capabilities. We expense software costs,
including internal and external training costs andmaintenance costs, incurred during the preliminary projectstage and the post-implementation and/or operation stage.
In addition, we capitalize implementation costs incurred
under a hosting arrangement that is a service contract.Capitalized software, which is included in “Other assets” in
the Consolidated Balance Sheets, is amortized on a straight-
line basis over the estimated useful life of the software,which is generally between five and ten years.
Impairment of Long-lived Assets
We record impairment charges when the carrying
amounts of long-lived assets are determined not to be
recoverable. We measure recoverability by comparing the
undiscounted cash flows expected from the applicableasset or asset group’s use and eventual disposition to its
carrying value. We calculate the amount of impairment
loss as the excess of the carrying value over the fair value.Historically, changes in market conditions andmanagement strategy have caused us to reassess the
carrying amount of our long-lived assets.
Goodwill and Other Intangibles Resulting from Business
Acquisitions
We account for business combinations using the
acquisition method, with the excess of the acquisition costover the fair value of net tangible assets and identified
intangible assets acquired considered goodwill. As aresult, we disclose goodwill separately from other
intangible assets. Other identifiable intangibles include
customer relationships, patented and other developedtechnology, and trade names and trademarks.
We perform an annual impairment test of goodwill
during the fourth quarter. Certain factors may cause us to
perform an impairment test prior to the fourth quarter,including significant underperformance of a business
relative to expected operating results, significant adverse
economic and industry trends, significant decline in ourmarket capitalization for an extended period of time
relative to net book value, or our decision to divest a
portion of a reporting unit. In performing impairment tests,we have the option to first assess qualitative factors todetermine whether it is necessary to perform a
quantitative assessment for goodwill impairment. If the
qualitative assessment indicates that it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than
its carrying value, we perform a quantitative assessment.
A quantitative assessment primarily uses a present value(discounted cash flow) method to determine the fair value
of reporting units with goodwill.
We compare the fair value of each reporting unit to its
carrying amount, and, to the extent the carrying amount
exceeds the unit’s fair value, we recognize an impairment
of goodwill for the excess up to the amount of goodwill ofthat reporting unit.
In consultation with outside specialists, we estimate the
fair value of our reporting units using various valuation
techniques, with the primary technique being a discountedcash flow analysis. A discounted cash flow analysis requires
us to make various assumptions about our reporting units,
including their respective forecasted sales, operatingmargins and growth rates, as well as discount rates. Our
assumptions about discount rates are based on the
weighted average cost of capital for comparable companies.
Our assumptions about sales, operating margins and growth
rates are based on our forecasts, business plans, economic
projections, anticipated future cash flows, and marketplacedata. We also make assumptions for varying perpetualgrowth rates for periods beyond our long-term business
plan period. We base our fair value estimates on projected
financial information and assumptions that we believe arereasonable. However, actual future results may materially
differ from these estimates and projections. The valuation
methodology we use to estimate the fair value of reportingunits requires inputs and assumptions that reflect current
market conditions, as well as the impact of planned business
and operational strategies that require managementjudgment. The estimated fair value could increase ordecrease depending on changes in the inputs and
assumptions.
26 2021 Annual Report |Avery Dennison CorporationNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
We test indefinite-lived intangible assets, consisting
of trade names and trademarks, for impairment in the
fourth quarter or whenever events or circumstances
indicate that it is more-likely-than-not that their carryingamounts exceed their fair values. In performing theimpairment tests, we have the option to first assessqualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to
perform a quantitative assessment for indefinite-lived
intangible asset impairment. If we decide not to perform aqualitative assessment, or if the qualitative assessmentindicates that it is more-likely-than-not that the fair valueof an indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its
carrying value, we perform a quantitative assessment. Fair
value is estimated as the discounted value of futurerevenues using a royalty rate that a third party would payfor use of the asset. Variation in the royalty rates couldimpact our estimate of fair value. If the carrying amount of
an asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is
recognized in an amount equal to that excess.
We amortize finite-lived intangible assets, consisting
of customer relationships, patented and other developedtechnology, trade names and trademarks, and other
intangibles, on a straight-line basis over the estimated
useful life of the assets.
See Note 3, “Goodwill and Other Intangibles
Resulting from Business Acquisitions,” for moreinformation.
Foreign Currency
We translate asset and liability accounts of
international operations into U.S. dollars at current rates.Revenues and expenses are translated at the weighted
average currency rate for the fiscal year. We record gains
and losses resulting from hedging the value ofinvestments in certain international operations and fromthe translation of balance sheet accounts directly as acomponent of other comprehensive income.
We account for our operations in Argentina as highly
inflationary, as the country’s three-year cumulativeinflation rate exceeded 100%. As a result, the functionalcurrency of our Argentine subsidiary is the U.S. dollar.
Financial Instruments
We enter into foreign exchange derivative contracts
to reduce our risk from exchange rate fluctuationsassociated with receivables, payables, loans and firm
commitments denominated in certain foreign currencies
that arise primarily as a result of our operations outsidethe U.S. From time to time, we enter into interest ratecontracts to help manage our exposure to certain interestrate fluctuations. We also enter into futures contracts to
hedge certain price fluctuations for a portion of our
anticipated domestic purchases of natural gas. Themaximum length of time for which we hedge our exposure
to the variability in future cash flows is 36 months forforecasted foreign exchange and commodity transactions
and 10 years for cross-currency swap transactions.
On the date we enter into a derivative contract, we
determine whether the derivative will be designated as ahedge. Derivatives designated as hedges are classified aseither (1) hedges of the fair value of a recognized asset or
liability or an unrecognized firm commitment (“fair value”
hedges) or (2) hedges of a forecasted transaction or thevariability of cash flows that are to be received or paid inconnection with a recognized asset or liability (“cash flow”hedges). Other derivatives not designated as hedges arerecorded on the balance sheets at fair value, with changes
in fair value recognized in earnings. Our policy is not to
purchase or hold any foreign currency, interest rate orcommodity contracts for trading purposes.
We assess, both at the inception of any hedge and on
an ongoing basis, whether our hedges are highly effective. If
we determine that a hedge is not highly effective, we
prospectively discontinue hedge accounting. For cash flowhedges, we record gains and losses as components of othercomprehensive income and reclassify them into earnings in
the same period during which the hedged transaction
affects earnings. In the event that the anticipated transactionis no longer likely to occur, we recognize the change in fairvalue of the instrument in current period earnings. Werecognize changes in fair value hedges in current period
earnings. We also recognize changes in the fair value of
underlying hedged items (such as recognized assets orliabilities) in current period earnings and offset the changesin the fair value of the derivative.
In the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows,
hedges are classified in the same category as the item
hedged, primarily in operating activities.
See Note 5, “Financial Instruments,” for more
information.
Fair Value Measurements
We define fair value as the price that would be received
from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in anorderly transaction between market participants at the
measurement date. In determining the fair value
measurements for assets and liabilities required to berecorded at fair value, we consider the principal or mostadvantageous market in which we would transact and themarket-based risk measurements or assumptions that
market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability.
We determine fair value based on a three-tier fair
value hierarchy, which we use to prioritize the inputs usedin measuring fair value. These tiers consist of Level 1,which are observable inputs such as quoted prices in
active markets; Level 2, which are inputs other than
Avery Dennison Corporation |2021 Annual Report 27Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
quoted prices in active markets that are either directly or
indirectly observable; and Level 3, which are unobservable
inputs in which little or no market data exists, and require
us to develop our own assumptions to determine the bestestimate of fair value.
Revenue Recognition
We recognize sales when or as we satisfy a
performance obligation by transferring control of aproduct or service to a customer, in an amount that
reflects the consideration to which we expect to be
entitled for the product or service. We consider a numberof factors in determining when we have transferredcontrol to a customer, including the following: (i) ourpresent right to payment; (ii) the customer’s legal title tothe asset; (iii) physical possession of the asset; (iv) the
customer’s significant risks and rewards of ownership of
the asset; and (v) the customer’s acceptance of the asset.
Our payment terms with our customers are generally
consistent with those used in the industries and the
regions in which we operate.
We accept sales returns in certain limited
circumstances. We record an estimate for return liabilitiesand a corresponding reduction to sales, in the amount weexpect to repay or credit customers, which we base on
historical returns and outstanding customer claims. We
update our estimates each reporting period.
Sales rebates, discounts, and other customer
concessions represent variable consideration and arecommon in the industries and regions in which we
operate, which we account for as a reduction to sales
based on estimates at the time at which products are sold.We base these estimates on our historical experience, aswell as current information such as sales forecasts. We
review our estimates regularly and, as additional
information becomes available, we adjust our sales andthe respective accruals as necessary.
We exclude sales tax, value-added tax, and other
taxes we collect from customers from sales. We account
for shipping and handling activities after control of a
product is transferred to a customer as fulfillment costsand not as separate performance obligations. As apractical expedient, we have elected not to disclose thevalue of unsatisfied performance obligations for contracts
with an original expected length of less than one year. We
generally expense sales commissions when incurredbecause the amortization period would have been oneyear or less. We record these costs in “Marketing, generaland administrative expense” in the Consolidated
Statements of Income.Research and Development
Research and development costs are related to
research, design and testing of new products andapplications, which we expense as incurred.
Long-Term Incentive Compensation
No long-term incentive compensation expense was
capitalized in 2021, 2020 or 2019.
Valuation of Stock-Based Awards
We base our stock-based compensation expense on
the fair value of awards, adjusted for estimated forfeitures,amortized on a straight-line basis over the requisiteservice period for stock options and restricted stock units
(“RSUs”). We base compensation expense for
performance units (“PUs”) on the fair value of awards,adjusted for estimated forfeitures, and amortized on astraight-line basis as these awards cliff-vest at the end of
the requisite service period. We base compensation
expense related to market-leveraged stock units (“MSUs”)on the fair value of awards, adjusted for estimatedforfeitures, and amortized on a graded-vesting basis overtheir respective performance periods.
Compensation expense for awards with a market
condition as a performance objective, which includes PUsand MSUs, is not adjusted if the condition is not met, aslong as the requisite service period is met.
We estimated the fair value of stock options as of the
date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing
model. This model requires input assumptions for ourexpected dividend yield, expected stock price volatility,risk-free interest rate and expected option term.
We determine the fair value of RSUs and the
component of PUs that is subject to the achievement of aperformance objective using a financial performancecondition based on the fair market value of our commonstock as of the date of grant, adjusted for foregone
dividends. Over the performance period of the PUs, the
estimated number of shares of our common stock issuableupon vesting is adjusted upward or downward from thetarget shares at the time of grant based on the probabilityof the financial performance objectives established for the
award being achieved.
We determine the fair value of stock-based awards
that are subject to achievement of performance objectivesbased on a market condition, which includes MSUs andthe other component of PUs, using the Monte-Carlo
simulation method, which utilizes multiple input variables,
including expected stock price volatility and otherassumptions appropriate for determining fair value, toestimate the probability of satisfying the targetperformance objectives established for the award.
28 2021 Annual Report |Avery Dennison CorporationNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Certain of these assumptions are based on
management’s estimates, in consultation with outside
specialists. Significant changes in assumptions for future
awards and actual forfeiture rates could materially impactstock-based compensation expense and our results of
operations.
Valuation of Cash-Based Awards
Cash-based awards consist of long-term incentive
units (“LTI Units”) granted to eligible employees. We
classify LTI Units as liability awards and remeasure them
at each quarter-end over the applicable vesting orperformance period. In addition to LTI Units with terms
and conditions that mirror those of RSUs, we also grant
certain employees LTI Units with terms and conditionsthat mirror those of PUs and MSUs.
Forfeitures
We estimate expected forfeitures in determining the
compensation cost to be recognized each period, rather
than accounting for forfeitures as they occur. We record
changes in estimated forfeiture rates as cumulativeadjustments in the period estimates are revised.
See Note 12, “Long-term Incentive Compensation,”
for more information.
Taxes Based on Income
We are subject to income tax in the U.S. and multiple
foreign jurisdictions, whereby judgment is required in
evaluating and estimating our worldwide provision,
accruals for taxes, deferred taxes and for evaluating ourtax positions. Our provision for income taxes isdetermined using the asset and liability approach in
accordance with GAAP. Under this approach, deferred
taxes represent the expected future tax consequences oftemporary differences between the carrying amounts and
tax bases of assets and liabilities. We record a valuation
allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets whenuncertainty regarding their realizability exists. Werecognize and measure our uncertain tax positions
following the more-likely-than-not threshold for
recognition and measurement for tax positions we take orexpect to take on a tax return.
See Note 14, “Taxes Based on Income,” for more
information.Recent Accounting Requirements
In November 2021, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board (“FASB”) issued an accounting guidance update that
requires entities to provide disclosures on material
government assistance transactions for annual reportingperiods. The disclosures include information around the
nature of the assistance, the related accounting policies used
to account for government assistance, the effect ofgovernment assistance on the entity’s financial statements,
and any significant terms and conditions of the agreements,
including commitments and contingencies. This guidance iseffective for our annual disclosures for our fiscal year
beginning January 2, 2022. We are currently assessing the
impact of this guidance on our disclosures.
In October 2021, the FASB issued an accounting
guidance update that requires entities to recognize andmeasure contract assets and liabilities acquired in a
business combination in accordance with revenue
recognition guidance. The update will generally result in
an entity recognizing contract assets and liabilities at
amounts consistent with those recorded by the acquireeimmediately before the acquisition date rather than fair
value. This guidance is effective on a prospective basis for
fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2022, with early
adoption permitted. We will adopt this guidance at the
beginning of our fiscal year on January 2, 2022.
NOTE 2. ACQUISITIONS
Vestcom Acquisition
On August 31, 2021, we completed our acquisition of
CB Velocity Holdings, LLC (“Vestcom”), an Arkansas-
based provider of shelf-edge pricing, productivity and
consumer engagement solutions for retailers and
consumer packaged goods companies, for purchase
consideration of $1.47 billion. We funded this acquisitionusing a combination of cash and proceeds from
commercial paper borrowings and issuances of senior
notes. Refer to Note 4, “Debt,” to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for more information.
We believe Vestcom’s solutions expand our position
in high value categories while adding channel access and
data management capabilities to our Retail Branding and
Information Solutions (“RBIS”) reportable segment.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2021 Annual Report 29Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
The table below summarizes the preliminary fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the Vestcom
acquisition.
(In millions)
Cash and cash equivalents $ 24.3
Trade accounts receivable 98.7
Other current assets 28.5
Property, plant and equipment 56.3
Goodwill 756.6
Other intangibles resulting from business acquisition 727.0
Other assets 22.7
Total assets 1,714.1
Current liabilities 47.5
Other liabilities 17.2
Deferred and non-current income tax liabilities 184.3
Total liabilities 249.0
Net assets acquired $1,465.1
The final allocation of purchase consideration to
assets and liabilities is ongoing as we continue to evaluatecertain balances, estimates and assumptions during the
measurement period (up to one year from the acquisition
date). Consistent with the allowable time to complete ourassessment, the valuation of certain acquired assets andliabilities, including environmental liabilities and incometaxes, is currently pending finalization.
The impact of the Vestcom acquisition was not
material to the proforma net sales or net income of ourcombined operations for the periods presented. Net salesand net income related to Vestcom post-acquisition were
not material to the Consolidated Statements of Income for
the periods presented.
Other 2021 Acquisitions
On March 18, 2021, we completed our acquisition of
the net assets of ZippyYum, LLC (“ZippyYum”), aCalifornia-based developer of software products used in
the food service and food preparation industries. We
believe this acquisition enhances the product portfolio inour RBIS reportable segment.
On March 1, 2021, we completed our acquisition of
the issued and outstanding stock of JDC Solutions, Inc.
(“JDC”), a Tennessee-based manufacturer of pressure-
sensitive specialty tapes. We believe that this acquisitionexpands the product portfolio in our Industrial andHealthcare Materials (“IHM”) reportable segment.
The acquisitions of ZippyYum and JDC are referred to
collectively as the “Other 2021 Acquisitions.”
The aggregate purchase consideration for the Other
2021 Acquisitions was approximately $43 million. Wefunded the Other 2021 Acquisitions using cash andcommercial paper borrowings. In addition to the cash paid
at closing, the sellers in one of these acquisitions are
eligible for earn-out payments of up to approximately$13 million subject to the acquired company’sachievement of certain performance targets. As of the
acquisition date, we estimated the fair value of these earn-
out payments to be approximately $12 million, which hasbeen included in the $43 million of aggregate purchaseconsideration.
The Other 2021 Acquisitions were not material,
individually or in the aggregate, to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.
2020 Acquisitions
On December 31, 2020, we completed our
acquisition of ACPO, Ltd. (“ACPO”), an Ohio-basedmanufacturer of self-wound (linerless) pressure-sensitive
overlaminate products, for consideration of approximately
$88 million. We believe this acquisition expands ourproduct portfolio in the North American business of ourLabels and Graphic Materials (“LGM”) reportable segment.
On February 28, 2020, we completed our acquisition
of Smartrac’s Transponder (RFID Inlay) division
(“Smartrac”), a manufacturer of RFID products, forconsideration of approximately $255 million(€232 million). We believe this acquisition enhances our
research and development capabilities, expands our
product lines and provides additional manufacturing
capacity. Results for Smartrac’s operations were includedin our RBIS reportable segment.
These acquisitions (the “2020 Acquisitions”) were not
material, individually or in the aggregate, to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
30 2021 Annual Report |Avery Dennison CorporationNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
NOTE 3. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLES RESULTING FROM BUSINESS ACQUISITIONS
Goodwill
Results from our annual goodwill impairment test in the fourth quarter of 2021 indicated that no impairment
occurred during 2021. The assumptions used in our assessment of these assets were primarily based on Level 3 inputs.
Changes in the net carrying amount of goodwill for 2021 and 2020 by reportable segment were as follows:
(In millions)Label and
Graphic
MaterialsRetail Branding
and Information
SolutionsIndustrial and
Healthcare
Materials Total
Goodwill as of December 28, 2019 $407.8 $ 349.3 $173.7 $ 930.8
Acquisitions(1) 45.8 112.7 – 158.5
Translation adjustments 27.3 9.8 10.0 47.1
Goodwill as of January 2, 2021 480.9 471.8 183.7 1,136.4
Acquisitions(2) – 774.5 6.9 781.4
Acquisition adjustment(3) 1.2 – – 1.2
Translation adjustments (25.7) (10.3) (1.5) (37.5)
Goodwill as of January 1, 2022 $456.4 $1,236.0 $189.1 $1,881.5
(1)Goodwill acquired in 2020 related to the acquisitions of Smartrac, which is included in our RBIS reportable segment, and ACPO, which is included in our LGM reportable segment.
We expect the recognized goodwill related to the Smartrac acquisition not to be deductible for income tax purposes and the recognized goodwill relate d to the ACPO acquisition to
be deductible for income tax purposes.
(2)Goodwill acquired related to the acquisitions of Vestcom, JDC and ZippyYum. We expect nearly all of the recognized goodwill related to the Vestcom and JDC acquisitions not to be
deductible for income tax purposes and the recognized goodwill related to the ZippyYum acquisition to be deductible for income tax purposes.
(3)Measurement period adjustment related to the finalization of the purchase price allocation for the acquisition of ACPO completed in December 2020.
The carrying amounts of goodwill at January 1, 2022 and January 2, 2021 were net of accumulated impairment
losses of $820 million recognized in fiscal year 2009 by our RBIS reportable segment.
Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets
In connection with our acquisition of Vestcom, we acquired approximately $135 million of identifiable indefinite lived
intangible assets consisting of trade names and trademarks. We utilized the income approach to estimate the fair valuesof acquired identifiable intangibles, primarily using Level 3 inputs. We applied significant judgment in determining the fair
value of intangible assets, which included our estimates and assumptions with respect to estimated future revenue and
related profit margins, royalty rates, discount rates, and economic lives assigned to the acquired intangible assets.
Results from our annual indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment test in the fourth quarter indicated that no
impairment occurred in 2021. The carrying value of indefinite-lived intangible assets resulting from business acquisitions,consisting of trade names and trademarks, was $155.6 million and $22.2 million at January 1, 2022 and January 2, 2021,
respectively.
Finite-Lived Intangible Assets
In connection with our acquisition of Vestcom, we acquired approximately $592 million of identifiable finite-lived
intangible assets, which consisted of customer relationships and patented and other developed technology. We utilized
the income approach to estimate the fair values of acquired identifiable intangibles, primarily using Level 3 inputs. We
applied significant judgment in determining the fair value of intangible assets, which included our estimates andassumptions with respect to estimated future revenue and related profit margins, customer retention rates, technologymigration curves, royalty rates, discount rates, and economic lives assigned to the acquired intangible assets.
The table below summarizes the amounts and useful lives of these intangible assets as of the acquisition date.
Amount
(in millions)Amortization
period
(in years)
Customer relationships $ 492.0 12
Patented and other developed technology 100.4 7
Avery Dennison Corporation |2021 Annual Report 31Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
The intangible assets from the Other 2021 Acquisitions were not material to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
In connection with the 2020 Acquisitions, we acquired approximately $106 million of identifiable finite-lived
intangible assets, which consisted of customer relationships, trade names and trademarks and patented and other
developed technology. We utilized the income and cost approaches to estimate the fair values of acquired identifiableintangibles, primarily using Level 3 inputs.
The table below summarizes the amounts and weighted average useful lives of these intangible assets as of the
acquisition date.
Amount
(in millions)Weighted average
amortization
period
(in years)
Patented and other developed technology $ 62.5 11
Customer relationships 41.4 7
Trade names and trademarks 2.2 5
Refer to Note 2, “Acquisitions,” for more information.
The table below sets forth our finite-lived intangible assets resulting from business acquisitions at January 1, 2022
and January 2, 2021, which continue to be amortized.
2021 2020
(In millions)Gross
Carrying
AmountAccumulated
AmortizationNet
Carrying
AmountGross
Carrying
AmountAccumulated
AmortizationNet
Carrying
Amount
Customer relationships $ 862.5 $277.2 $585.3 $373.3 $254.1 $119.2
Patented and other developed technology 247.7 84.7 163.0 147.3 69.8 77.5Trade names and trademarks 14.8 9.7 5.1 28.2 22.2 6.0Other intangibles 3.2 .8 2.4 .2 .2 –
Total $1,128.2 $372.4 $755.8 $549.0 $346.3 $202.7
Amortization expense for finite-lived intangible assets
resulting from business acquisitions was $44.6 million for2021, $19.9 million for 2020 and $13.5 million for 2019.
We expect estimated amortization expense for finite-
lived intangible assets resulting from business acquisitionsfor each of the next five fiscal years to be as follows:
(In millions)Estimated
Amortization
Expense
2022 $ 43.5
2023 42.52024 40.82025 40.02026 36.9
NOTE 4. DEBT
Short-Term Borrowings
We had $189 million of outstanding borrowings from
U.S. commercial paper issuances with a weighted averageinterest rate of 0.32% as of January 1, 2022 and no
outstanding borrowings from U.S. commercial paper as of
January 2, 2021.We have a Euro-Commercial Paper Program under
which we may issue unsecured commercial paper notes
up to a maximum aggregate amount outstanding of$500 million. Proceeds from issuances under this program
may be used for general corporate purposes. The
maturities of the notes vary, but may not exceed 364 daysfrom the date of issuance. Our payment obligations withrespect to any notes issued under this program are backed
by our $800 million revolving credit facility (the
“Revolver”). There are no financial covenants under thisprogram. We had balances of $113.1 million and
$36.9 million outstanding under this program as of
January 1, 2022 and January 2, 2021, respectively.
Short-Term Credit Facilities
In February 2020, we amended and restated the
Revolver, eliminating one of the financial covenants and
extending its maturity date to February 13, 2025. The
maturity date may be further extended for a one-year periodunder certain circumstances. The commitments under theRevolver may be increased by up to $400 million, subject to
lender approvals and customary requirements. We use the
Revolver as a back-up facility for our commercial paperprogram and for other corporate purposes.
32 2021 Annual Report |Avery Dennison CorporationNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
No balance was outstanding under the Revolver as of
January 1, 2022 or January 2, 2021. Commitment fees
associated with the Revolver in 2021, 2020 and 2019
were $.9 million, $.8 million and $1.2 million, respectively.
In addition to the Revolver, we have short-term lines
of credit available in various countries of approximately$358 million in the aggregate at January 1, 2022. These
lines may be cancelled at any time by us or the issuing
banks. Short-term borrowings outstanding under theselines of credit were $11.2 million and $22.2 million atJanuary 1, 2022 and January 2, 2021, respectively, withweighted average interest rates of 4.97% and 3.6%,
respectively.
From time to time, we provide guarantees on certain
arrangements with banks. Our exposure to theseguarantees is not material.
Long-Term Borrowings
In August 2021, we issued $500 million of senior
notes, due February 15, 2032, which bear an interest rateof 2.250%, payable semiannually in arrears. Our net
proceeds from this issuance, after deducting underwriting
discounts and offering expenses, were $493.7 million.Additionally, in August 2021, we issued $300 million ofsenior notes, due August 15, 2024, which we can repaywithout penalty on or after August 15, 2022 and bear an
interest rate of 0.850%, payable semiannually in arrears.
Our net proceeds from this issuance, after deductingunderwriting discounts and offering expenses, were$298 million. We used the net proceeds from these two
debt issuances to finance a portion of the Vestcom
acquisition.
In March 2020, we issued $500 million of senior
notes, due April 2030. These senior notes bear an interestrate of 2.65% per year, payable semiannually in arrears.
Our net proceeds from the issuance, after deducting
underwriting discounts and offering expenses, were$493.7 million, which we used to repay both existingindebtedness under our commercial paper program used tofund our Smartrac acquisition and our $250 million of
senior notes that matured in April 2020.Our long-term debt, and their respective interest
rates, at year-end 2021 and 2020 is shown below.
(In millions) 2021 2020
Long-term debt
Medium-term notes:
Series 1995 due 2020 and 2025 $ 30.0 $ 30.0
Long-term notes:
Senior notes due 2023 at 3.4% 249.5 249.3Senior notes due 2024 at 0.85% 298.3 –Senior notes due 2025 at 1.25%
(1) 563.3 612.1
Senior notes due 2028 at 4.875% 495.3 494.6Senior notes due 2030 at 2.650% 494.8 494.2Senior notes due 2032 at 2.25% 493.9 –Senior notes due 2033 at 6.0% 149.1 149.0
Less amount classified as current – –
Total long-term debt
(2) $2,774.2 $2,029.2
(1)These senior notes are euro-denominated.
(2)Includes unamortized debt issuance costs and debt discounts of $12.9 million and
$8.2 million, respectively, as of year-end 2021 and $8.7 million and $4.9 million,respectively, as of year-end 2020.
At year-end 2021 and 2020, our medium-term notes
had accrued interest at a weighted average fixed rate of7.5%. In the second quarter of 2020, we repaid $15 million
of medium-term notes that matured in June 2020.
We expect maturities of our long-term debt for each
of the next five fiscal years and thereafter to be as follows:
Year (In millions)
2022 $ –
2023 250.02024 300.02025 595.32026 –2027 and thereafter 1,650.0
Refer to Note 7, “Commitments and Leases,” for
information related to finance leases.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2021 Annual Report 33Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Other
Prior to its amendment and restatement in February
2020, the Revolver contained financial covenants requiringthat we maintain specified ratios of total debt and interestexpense in relation to certain measures of income. InFebruary 2020, one of the financial covenants waseliminated. The remaining financial covenant requires us tomaintain a specified ratio of total debt in relation to a certainmeasure of income. As of January 1, 2022 and January 2,2021, we were in compliance with our financial covenants.
Our total interest costs in 2021, 2020 and 2019 were
$75 million, $73.9 million and $81.1 million, respectively,of which $4.8 million, $3.9 million and $5.3 million,respectively, was capitalized as part of the cost ofproperty, plant and equipment and capitalized software.
The estimated fair value of our long-term debt is
primarily based on the credit spread above U.S. Treasurysecurities or euro government bond securities, asapplicable, on notes with similar rates, credit ratings andremaining maturities. The fair value of short-termborrowings, which includes commercial paper issuancesand short-term lines of credit, approximates their carryingvalue given their short duration. The fair value of our totaldebt was $3.25 billion at January 1, 2022 and$2.34 billion at January 2, 2021. Fair value amounts weredetermined based primarily on Level 2 inputs, which areinputs other than quoted prices in active markets that areeither directly or indirectly observable. Refer to Note 1,“Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” for moreinformation.
NOTE 5. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
As of January 1, 2022, the aggregate U.S. dollar
equivalent notional value of our outstanding commoditycontracts and foreign exchange contracts was $3.5 million
and $1.67 billion, respectively.
We recognize derivative instruments as either assets
or liabilities at fair value in the Consolidated BalanceSheets. We designate commodity forward contracts onforecasted purchases of commodities and foreign
exchange contracts on forecasted transactions as cashflow hedges. We also enter into foreign exchange
contracts to offset certain of our economic exposures
arising from foreign exchange rate fluctuations.
Cash Flow Hedges
For derivative instruments that are designated and
qualify as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of thegain or loss on the derivative is reported as a component
of “Accumulated other comprehensive loss” and
reclassified into earnings in the same period(s) duringwhich the hedged transaction impacts earnings. Gains andlosses on these derivatives, representing either hedgeineffectiveness or hedge components excluded from theassessment of effectiveness, are recognized in current
earnings. Except for the cross-currency swap discussed
below, cash flow hedges were not material in 2021, 2020or 2019.
Cross-Currency Swap
Following our Smartrac acquisition and issuance of
senior notes in March 2020, we entered into U.S. dollar toeuro cross-currency swap contracts with a total notional
amount of $250 million to have the effect of converting
the fixed-rate U.S. dollar-denominated debt into euro-denominated debt, including semiannual interestpayments and the payment of principal at maturity. Duringthe term of the contract, which ends on April 30, 2030, we
pay fixed-rate interest in euros and receive fixed-rate
interest in U.S. dollars. These contracts have beendesignated as cash flow hedges. The fair value of thesecontracts was $(10.3) million and $(36.7) million as of
January 1, 2022 and January 2, 2021, respectively, and
included in “Long-term retirement benefits and otherliabilities” in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Refer toNote 9, “Fair Value Measurements,” to the ConsolidatedFinancial Statements for more information.
We recorded no ineffectiveness from our cross-
currency swap to earnings during 2021 or 2020.
Other Derivatives
The following table shows the fair value and balance sheet locations of other derivatives as of January 1, 2022 and
January 2, 2021:
Asset Liability
(In millions) Balance Sheet Location 2021 2020 Balance Sheet Location 2021 2020
Foreign exchange contracts Other current assets $ 6.3 $ 5.1 Other current liabilities $ 2.9 $ 8.4
Commodity contracts Other current assets – .1 Other current liabilities – .1
$ 6.3 $ 5.2 $ 2.9 $ 8.5
34 2021 Annual Report |Avery Dennison CorporationNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
For other derivative instruments not designated as
hedging instruments, the gain or loss is recognized in
current earnings.
The following table shows the components of the net
gains (losses) recognized in income related to thesederivative instruments:
(In millions)Statements of
Income Location 2021 2020 2019
Foreign exchange
contractsCost of products
sold $ 1.4 $ 1.9 $ (1.5)
Foreign exchange
contractsMarketing, general
and administrativeexpense 21.0 (14.2) 3.5
$ 22.4 $(12.3) $ 2.0
NOTE 6. PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT
BENEFITS
Defined Benefit Plans
We sponsor a number of defined benefit plans, the
accrual of benefits under some of which has been frozen,covering eligible employees in the U.S. and certain other
countries. Benefits payable to an employee are based
primarily on years of service and the employee’scompensation during the course of his or her employmentwith us.
We are also obligated to pay unfunded termination
indemnity benefits to certain employees outside the U.S.,
which are subject to applicable agreements, laws andregulations. We have not incurred significant costs relatedto these benefits, and, therefore, no related costs have
been included in the disclosures below.
In 2019, we terminated and settled the Avery
Dennison Pension Plan (the “ADPP”), a U.S. definedbenefit plan. In connection with this termination, wesettled approximately $753 million of ADPP liabilities by
entering into an agreement to purchase annuities primarily
from American General Life Insurance Company andthrough a combination of annuities and direct funding tothe Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation for a smallportion of former employees and their beneficiaries. Thesesettlements resulted in approximately $444 million of
pretax charges in 2019, partially offset by related tax
benefits of approximately $179 million.
Plan Assets
Assets in our international plans are invested in
accordance with locally accepted practices and primarilyinclude equity securities, fixed income securities,
insurance contracts and cash. Asset allocations and
investments vary by country and plan. Our target planasset investment allocation for our international plans inthe aggregate is approximately 32% in equity securities,60% in fixed income securities and cash, and 8% ininsurance contracts and other investments, subject to
periodic fluctuations among these asset classes.
Fair Value Measurements
The valuation methodologies we use for assets
measured at fair value are described below.
Cash is valued at nominal value. Cash equivalents and
mutual funds are valued at fair value as determined by
quoted market prices, based upon the net asset value(“NAV”) of shares held at year-end. Fixed income treasurysecurities are valued at fair value as determined by quotedprices in active markets. Fixed income municipal and
corporate bonds are valued at fair value based on quoted
prices for similar instruments in active markets or otherinputs that are observable or can be corroborated byobservable market data. Pooled funds are structured as
collective trusts, not publicly traded, and valued by
calculating NAV per unit based on the NAV of theunderlying funds/trusts as a practical expedient for the fairvalue of the pooled funds. Insurance contracts are valuedat book value, which approximates fair value and is
calculated using the prior-year balance plus or minus
investment returns and changes in cash flows.
These methods may produce a fair value calculation
that may not be indicative of net realizable value or
reflective of future fair values. While we believe these
valuation methods are appropriate and consistent withother market participants, the use of differentmethodologies or assumptions to determine the fair valueof certain financial instruments could result in a differentfair value measurement at the reporting date.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2021 Annual Report 35Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
The following table sets forth, by level within the fair value hierarchy (as applicable), international plan assets at fair value:
Fair Value Measurements Using
(In millions) TotalQuoted
Prices
in Active
Markets
(Level 1)Significant
Other
Observable
Inputs
(Level 2)Significant
Other
Unobservable
Inputs
(Level 3)
2021
Cash $ 10.1 $10.1 $ – $ –
Insurance contracts 37.9 – – 37.9Pooled funds – real estate investment trusts 11.0 – – 11.0Pooled funds – fixed income securities
(1) 464.4
Pooled funds – equity securities(1) 302.8
Pooled funds – other investments(1) 48.4
Total international plan assets at fair value $874.62020
Cash $ 3.8 $ 3.8 $ – $ –
Insurance contracts 41.2 – – 41.2Pooled funds – fixed income securities
(1) 469.9
Pooled funds – equity securities(1) 332.8
Pooled funds – other investments(1) 49.5
Total international plan assets at fair value $897.2
(1)Pooled funds that are measured at fair value using the NAV per unit (or its equivalent) practical expedient have not been classified in the fair value hi erarchy. The fair value amounts
presented in this table are intended to reconcile to total international plan assets.
The following table presents a reconciliation of Level 3 international plan asset activity during the year ended
January 1, 2022:
Level 3 Assets
(In millions) Insurance ContractsPooled Funds –
Real Estate
Investment Trusts Total
Balance at January 2, 2021 $41.2 $ – $41.2
Net realized and unrealized gain .7 – .7Purchases 3.3 – 3.3
Settlements (4.6) – (4.6)
Transfers into Level 3
(1) – 11.0 11.0
Impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates (2.7) – (2.7)
Balance at January 1, 2022 $37.9 $11.0 $48.9
(1)Transfers into Level 3 were primarily driven by the use of unobservable inputs in the pricing of the underlying assets.
As a result of the ADPP settlements, there were no U.S. plan assets remaining as of January 1, 2022.
Plan Assumptions
Discount Rate
In consultation with our actuaries, we annually review
and determine the discount rates used to value our pension
and other postretirement obligations. The assumed
discount rate for each pension plan reflects market ratesfor high quality corporate bonds currently available. Ourdiscount rate is determined by evaluating yield curvesconsisting of large populations of high quality corporate
bonds. The projected pension benefit payment streams are
then matched with bond portfolios to determine a rate thatreflects the liability duration unique to our plans.We use the full yield curve approach to estimate the
service and interest cost components of net periodicbenefit cost for our pension and other postretirement
benefit plans. Under this approach, we apply multiple
discount rates from a yield curve composed of the rates ofreturn on several hundred high-quality, fixed incomecorporate bonds available at the measurement date. We
believe that this approach provides a more precise
measurement of service and interest cost by aligning thetiming of a plan’s liability cash flows to its correspondingrates on the yield curve.
36 2021 Annual Report |Avery Dennison CorporationNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Long-term Return on Assets
We determine the long-term rate of return assumption for plan assets by reviewing the historical and expected
returns of both the equity and fixed income markets, taking into account our asset allocation, the correlation between
returns in our asset classes, and our mix of active and passive investments. Additionally, we evaluate current marketconditions, including interest rates, and review market data for reasonableness and appropriateness.
Measurement Date
We measure the actuarial value of our benefit obligations and plan assets using the calendar month-end closest to
our fiscal year-end and adjust for any contributions or other significant events between the measurement date and ourfiscal year-end.
Plan Balance Sheet Reconciliations
The following table provides a reconciliation of benefit obligations, plan assets, funded status of the plans and
accumulated other comprehensive loss for our defined benefit plans:
Plan Benefit Obligations
Pension Benefits
2021 2020
(In millions) U.S. Int’l U.S. Int’l
Change in projected benefit obligations
Projected benefit obligations at beginning of year $ 77.3 $ 953.9 $ 75.7 $ 811.7Service cost – 19.0 – 17.8
Interest cost 1.0 8.9 1.8 11.0
Participant contribution – 4.7 – 3.7
Amendments – (.9) – .4
Actuarial (gain) loss (1.7) (15.6) 7.1 53.5
Benefits paid (9.8) (23.3) (7.3) (21.1)
Settlements – (3.7) – (2.4)
Foreign currency translation – (60.6) – 79.3
Projected benefit obligations at end of year $ 66.8 $ 882.4 $ 77.3 $ 953.9Accumulated benefit obligations at end of year $ 66.8 $ 806.4 $ 77.3 $ 883.6
Plan Assets
Pension Benefits
2021 2020
(In millions) U.S. Int’l U.S. Int’l
Change in plan assets
Plan assets at beginning of year $ – $ 897.2 $ – $ 734.4Actual return on plan assets – 37.3 – 91.5Employer contributions 9.8 20.7 7.3 17.2Participant contributions – 4.7 – 3.7Benefits paid (9.8) (23.3) (7.3) (21.1)
Settlements – (3.7) – (2.4)
Foreign currency translation – (58.3) – 73.9
Plan assets at end of year $ – $ 874.6 $ – $ 897.2
Avery Dennison Corporation |2021 Annual Report 37Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Funded Status
Pension Benefits
2021 2020
(In millions) U.S. Int’l U.S. Int’l
Funded status of the plans
Other assets $ – $ 113.6 $ – $ 92.4
Other accrued liabilities (7.0) (1.0) (9.1) (1.5)
Long-term retirement benefits and other liabilities(1) (59.8) (120.4) (68.2) (147.6)
Plan assets less than benefit obligations $ (66.8) $ (7.8) $ (77.3) $ (56.7)
(1)In accordance with our funding strategy, we have the option to fund certain of our U.S. liabilities with proceeds from our company-owned life insuranc e policies.
Pension Benefits
2021 2020
U.S. Int’l U.S. Int’l
Weighted average assumptions used to determine year-end benefit obligations
Discount rate 2.49% 1.57% 2.02% 1.26%
Compensation rate increase – 2.33 – 2.15
For U.S. and international plans combined, the projected benefit obligations and fair values of plan assets for pension
plans with projected benefit obligations in excess of plan assets were $261 million and $73 million, respectively, atyear-end 2021 and $295 million and $69 million, respectively, at year-end 2020.
For U.S. and international plans combined, the accumulated benefit obligations and fair values of plan assets for
pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets were $228 million and $67 million,respectively, at year-end 2021 and $265 million and $69 million, respectively, at year-end 2020.
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss
The following table shows the pre-tax amounts recognized in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss” in the
Consolidated Balance Sheets:
Pension Benefits
2021 2020
(In millions) U.S. Int’l U.S. Int’l
Net actuarial loss $ 15.6 $ 41.5 $ 18.2 $ 83.3
Prior service (credit) cost – (4.0) – (3.9)
Net amount recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss $ 15.6 $ 37.5 $ 18.2 $ 79.4
The following table shows the pre-tax amounts recognized in “Other comprehensive loss (income)”:
Pension Benefits
2021 2020 2019
(In millions) U.S. Int’l U.S. Int’l U.S. Int’l
Net actuarial loss (gain) $ (.7) $ (34.8) $ 3.5 $ (13.5) $ (44.6) $(42.7)
Prior service credit – (.9) – .4 – 1.8Amortization of unrecognized:
Net actuarial gain (.8) (6.1) (.6) (5.2) (.5) (4.0)Prior service credit (cost) – .4 – .4 – .4
Settlements (1.1) (.5) (.2) (.3) (442.8) (.6)
Net amount recognized in other comprehensive loss (income) $ (2.6) $ (41.9) $ 2.7 $ (18.2) $ (487.9) $ (45.1)
38 2021 Annual Report |Avery Dennison CorporationNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Plan Income Statement Reconciliations
The following table shows the components of net periodic benefit cost, which are recorded in net income for our
defined benefit plans:
Pension Benefits
2021 2020 2019
(In millions) U.S. Int’l U.S. Int’l U.S. Int’l
Service cost $ – $ 19.0 $ – $ 17.8 $ – $ 15.6
Interest cost 1.0 8.9 1.8 11.0 2.7 14.8Actuarial loss (gain) (1.1) – 3.7 – 2.5 –Expected return on plan assets – (19.8) – (18.5) – (21.0)Amortization of actuarial loss .8 6.1 .6 5.2 .5 4.0Amortization of prior service (credit) cost – (.4) – (.4) – (.4)Recognized loss on settlements
(1) 1.1 .5 .2 .3 443.5 .6
Net periodic benefit cost (credit) $ 1.8 $ 14.3 $ 6.3 $ 15.4 $ 449.2 $ 13.6
(1)In 2021, settlements in the U.S. related to a non-qualified plan; settlements in our international plans related to lump-sum payments in Belgium and S witzerland. In 2020,
settlements in the U.S. related to a non-qualified plan; settlements in our international plans related to lump-sum payments in Belgium, France and f or certain expatriate employees.
In 2019, settlements in the U.S. related to the ADPP termination; settlements in our international plans related to lump-sum payments in Switzerland .
Service cost and components of net periodic benefit cost other than service cost were included in “Marketing, general
and administrative expense” and “Other non-operating expense (income), net” in the Consolidated Statements of Income,respectively.
The following table shows the weighted average assumptions used to determine net periodic cost:
Pension Benefits
2021 2020 2019
U.S. Int’l U.S. Int’l U.S. Int’l
Discount rate 2.20% 1.26% 2.89% 1.66% 3.73% 2.39%
Expected return on assets – 2.61 – 2.79 – 3.38Compensation rate increase – 2.15 – 2.21 – 2.23
Plan Contributions
We make contributions to our defined benefit plans sufficient to meet the minimum funding requirements of
applicable laws and regulations, plus additional amounts, if any, we determine to be appropriate. The following table setsforth our expected contributions in 2022:
(In millions)
U.S. pension plans $ 7.1
International pension plans 13.5
Future Benefit Payments
The future benefit payments shown below reflect the expected service periods for eligible participants.
Pension
Benefits
(In millions) U.S. Int’l
2022 $ 7.1 $ 20.1
2023 6.3 22.5
2024 6.1 23.6
2025 6.1 22.2
2026 5.9 27.1
2027-2031 22.5 138.5
Avery Dennison Corporation |2021 Annual Report 39Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Postretirement Health Benefits
We provide postretirement health benefits to certain of
our retired U.S. employees up to the age of 65 under a cost-sharing arrangement and provide supplemental Medicare
benefits to certain of our U.S. retirees over the age of 65. Our
postretirement health benefit plan was closed to neweligible participants retiring after December 31, 2021. Ourpolicy is to fund the cost of these postretirement benefitsfrom operating cash flows. While we do not intend toterminate these postretirement health benefits, we may do
so at any time, subject to applicable laws and regulations. At
year-end 2021, our postretirement health benefits obligationand related loss recorded in “Accumulated othercomprehensive loss” were approximately $2 million andapproximately $12 million, respectively. At year-end 2020,
our postretirement health benefits obligation and related
loss recorded in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss”were approximately $3 million and approximately$10 million, respectively. Net periodic benefit cost was notmaterial in 2021, 2020 or 2019.
Defined Contribution Plans
We sponsor various defined contribution plans
worldwide, the largest of which is the Avery DennisonCorporation Employee Savings Plan (“Savings Plan”), a
401(k) plan for our U.S. employees.
We recognized expense of $24.6 million, $22.7 million
and $22.4 million in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively,related to our employer contributions and employer matchof participant contributions to the Savings Plan.
Other Retirement Plans
We have deferred compensation plans and programs
that permit eligible employees and directors to defer aportion of their compensation. The compensation
voluntarily deferred by the participant, together with
certain employer contributions, earns specified andvariable rates of return. As of year-end 2021 and 2020,we had accrued $96.1 million and $95.1 million,respectively, for our obligations under these plans. Aportion of the interest on certain of our contributions may
be forfeited by participants if their employment terminates
before age 55 other than by reason of death or disability.
Our Directors Deferred Equity Compensation
Program allows our non-employee directors to elect toreceive their cash compensation in deferred stock units
(“DSUs”) issued under our equity plan. Additionally, two
legacy deferred compensation plans had DSUs that wereissued under our then-active equity plans. Dividendequivalents, representing the value of dividends per sharepaid on shares of our common stock and calculated with
reference to the number of DSUs held as of a quarterly
dividend record date, are credited in the form of additionalDSUs on the applicable dividend payable date. DSUs areconverted into shares of our common stock upon adirector’s separation from our Board. Approximately
.1 million DSUs were outstanding for both year-end 2021
and 2020, with an aggregate value of $24 million and$22 million, respectively.
We hold company-owned life insurance policies, the
proceeds from which are payable to us upon the death of
covered participants. The cash surrender values of these
policies, net of outstanding loans, which are included in“Other assets” in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, were$272.2 million and $254.8 million at year-end 2021 and
2020, respectively.
NOTE 7. COMMITMENTS AND LEASES
Supplemental cost information related to leases is shown below.
(In millions) 2021 2020 2019
Operating lease costs $68.8 $63.1 $65.4
Lease costs related to finance leases were not material in 2021, 2020 or 2019.
40 2021 Annual Report |Avery Dennison CorporationNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Supplemental balance sheet information related to leases is shown below.
(In millions) Balance Sheet Location 2021 2020
Assets
Operating Other assets $ 183.0 $ 161.3Finance
(1) Property, plant and equipment, net 28.9 38.2
Total leased assets $ 211.9 $ 199.5
Liabilities
Current:
Operating Other current liabilities $ 47.3 $ 44.3Finance Short-term borrowings and current portion of long-term debt and finance
leases 5.5 5.6
Non-current:
Operating Long-term retirement benefits and other liabilities 135.3 116.0Finance Long-term debt and finance leases 11.7 22.9
Total lease liabilities $ 199.8 $ 188.8
(1)Finance lease assets are net of accumulated amortization of $10.4 million and $8.3 million as of January 1, 2022 and January 2, 2021, respectively.
Supplemental cash flow information related to leases
is shown below.
(In millions) 2021 2020 2019
Cash paid for amounts
included in themeasurement of operatinglease liabilities $ 54.2 $ 54.9 $ 53.1
Operating lease assets
obtained in exchange foroperating lease liabilities 58.0 48.4 32.6
Cash flows related to finance leases were not material
in 2021, 2020 or 2019.
Weighted average remaining lease term and discount
rate information related to leases as of January 1, 2022 isshown below.
2021 2020
Weighted average remaining lease term
(in years):
Operating 6.5 6.2
Finance 3.3 3.2
Weighted average discount rate
(percentage):
Operating 3.0% 4.3%
Finance 2.9 2.9
Operating and finance lease liabilities by maturity
date from January 1, 2022 are shown below.
(In millions) Operating Leases Finance Leases
2022 $ 51.5 $ 6.1
2023 40.1 5.32024 29.8 5.0
2025 22.9 1.7
2026 14.4 .2
2027 and thereafter 45.7 –
Total lease payments 204.4 18.3Less: imputed interest (21.8) (1.1)
Present value of lease
liabilities $182.6 $17.2As of January 1, 2022, we had no significant
operating or finance leases that had not yet commenced.
NOTE 8. CONTINGENCIES
Legal Proceedings
We are involved in various lawsuits, claims, inquiries,
and other regulatory and compliance matters, most ofwhich are routine to the nature of our business. When it is
probable that a loss will be incurred and where a range of
the loss can be reasonably estimated, the best estimatewithin the range is accrued. When the best estimatewithin the range cannot be determined, the low end of therange is accrued. The ultimate resolution of these claims
could affect future results of operations should our
exposure be materially different from our estimates orshould liabilities be incurred that were not previouslyaccrued. Potential insurance reimbursements are not
offset against potential liabilities.
We are currently party to a litigation in which ADASA
Inc. (“Adasa”), an unrelated third party, alleged that certainof our radio-frequency identification (“RFID”) productsinfringed on its patent. We recorded a contingent liability
related to this matter in the second quarter of 2021 in the
amount of $26.6 million based on a jury verdict issued onMay 14, 2021.
During the third quarter of 2021, the first instance
judgment associated with the jury verdict was issued. This
resulted in additional potential liability of $35.8 million for,
among other things, royalties on a higher number of tagsand royalties on tags sold after March 31, 2021. We didnot increase the contingent liability we recorded for thisadditional potential liability. With continued evaluation of
the matter and our defenses, as well as consultation with
our outside counsel, we continue to believe that Adasa’spatent is invalid and that, even if valid, we have not
Avery Dennison Corporation |2021 Annual Report 41Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
infringed it, and that the royalty rate used as the basis for
the jury’s determination is unreasonable under prevailing
industry standards, as well as that any liability related to
this matter would be substantially lower than that which isreflected in either the jury verdict or the first instancejudgment. On October 22, 2021, we appealed thejudgment to the United States Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit and continue to believe meritorious
defenses exist to significantly reduce the liability wecurrently have recorded. As our appeal is still pending, wemaintained our current contingent liability of $26.6 millionfor this matter as a reasonable estimate within the range
of probable outcomes. We have largely completed our
migration to alternative encoding methods used in ourother RFID tags.
Because of the uncertainties associated with claims
resolution and litigation, future expenses to resolve these
matters could be higher than the liabilities we have
accrued; however, we are unable to reasonably estimate arange of potential expenses. If information were tobecome available that allowed us to reasonably estimate arange of potential expenses determined to be probable in
an amount higher or lower than what we have accrued,
we would adjust our accrued liabilities accordingly.Additional lawsuits, claims, inquiries, and other regulatoryand compliance matters could arise in the future. Therange of expenses for resolving any future matters would
be assessed as they arise; until then, a range of potential
expenses for such resolution cannot be determined. Basedupon current information, we believe that the impact ofthe resolution of these matters would not be, individually
or in the aggregate, material to our financial position,
results of operations or cash flows.
Environmental Expenditures
Environmental expenditures are generally expensed.
When it is probable that a loss will be incurred and wherea range of the loss can be reasonably estimated, the best
estimate within the range is accrued. When the best
estimate within the range cannot be determined, the lowend of the range is accrued. The ultimate resolution ofthese matters could affect future results of operationsshould our exposure be materially different from our
estimates or should liabilities be incurred that were not
previously accrued. Potential insurance reimbursementsare not offset against potential liabilities. We review ourestimates of the costs of complying with environmentallaws related to remediation and cleanup of various sites,
including sites in which governmental agencies havedesignated us as a potentially responsible party (“PRP”).
Environmental expenditures for newly acquired assets and
those that extend or improve the economic useful life ofexisting assets are capitalized and amortized over theshorter of the estimated useful life of the acquired asset orthe remaining life of the existing asset.
As of January 1, 2022, we have been designated by
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) and/or
other responsible state agencies as a PRP at twelve wastedisposal or waste recycling sites that are the subject ofseparate investigations or proceedings concerning allegedsoil and/or groundwater contamination. No settlement of
our liability related to any of these sites has been agreed
upon. We are participating with other PRPs at these sitesand anticipate that our share of remediation costs will bedetermined pursuant to agreements that we negotiatewith the EPA or other governmental authorities.
These estimates could change as a result of changes
in planned remedial actions, remediation technologies, siteconditions, the estimated time to complete remediation,environmental laws and regulations, and other factors.Because of the uncertainties associated with
environmental assessment and remediation activities, our
future expenses to remediate these sites could be higherthan the liabilities we have accrued; however, we areunable to reasonably estimate a range of potential
expenses. If information were to become available that
allowed us to reasonably estimate a range of potentialexpenses determined to be probable in an amount higheror lower than what we have accrued, we would adjust ourenvironmental liabilities accordingly. In addition, we may
be identified as a PRP at additional sites in the future. The
range of expenses for remediation of any future-identifiedsites would be addressed as they arise; until then, a rangeof expenses for such remediation cannot be determined.
The activity related to our environmental liabilities in
2021 and 2020 was as follows:
(In millions) 2021 2020
Balance at beginning of year $21.1 $21.4
Charges, net of reversals 2.9 3.0
Payments (2.1) (3.3)
Balance at end of year $21.9 $21.1
Approximately $2 million and $9 million, respectively,
of the balance was classified as short-term and includedin “Other current liabilities” in the Consolidated Balance
Sheets as of January 1, 2022 and January 2, 2021.
42 2021 Annual Report |Avery Dennison CorporationNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
NOTE 9. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS
Recurring Fair Value Measurements
The following table provides the assets and liabilities carried at fair value, measured on a recurring basis, as of
January 1, 2022:
Fair Value Measurements Using
(In millions) TotalQuoted
Prices in
Active
Markets
(Level 1)Significant
Other
Observable
Inputs
(Level 2)Significant
Other
Unobservable
Inputs
(Level 3)
Assets
Investments $33.9 $27.1 $ 6.8 $ –
Derivative assets 7.1 .6 6.5 –Bank drafts 14.1 14.1 – –
Liabilities
Cross-currency swap $10.3 $ – $10.3 $ –Derivative liabilities 3.6 – 3.6 –Contingent consideration liabilities 7.6 – – 7.6
The following table provides the assets and liabilities carried at fair value, measured on a recurring basis, as of
January 2, 2021:
Fair Value Measurements Using
(In millions) TotalQuoted
Prices in
Active
Markets
(Level 1)Significant
Other
Observable
Inputs
(Level 2)Significant
Other
Unobservable
Inputs
(Level 3)
Assets
Investments $33.6 $27.4 $ 6.2 $ –
Derivative assets 5.2 .1 5.1 –Bank drafts 12.8 12.8 – –
Liabilities
Cross-currency swap $36.7 $ – $36.7 $ –
Derivative liabilities 9.5 .3 9.2 –
Investments include fixed income securities (primarily
U.S. government and corporate debt securities) measuredat fair value using quoted prices/bids and a money market
fund measured at fair value using NAV. As of January 1,
2022, investments of $.5 million and $33.4 million wereincluded in “Cash and cash equivalents” and “Othercurrent assets,” respectively, in the Consolidated BalanceSheets. As of January 2, 2021, investments of $1 million
and $32.6 million were included in “Cash and cash
equivalents” and “Other current assets,” respectively, inthe Consolidated Balance Sheets. Derivatives that areexchange-traded are measured at fair value using quotedmarket prices and classified within Level 1 of the valuation
hierarchy. Derivatives measured based on foreignexchange rate inputs that are readily available in public
markets are classified within Level 2 of the valuationhierarchy. Bank drafts (maturities greater than threemonths) are valued at face value due to their short-term
nature and were included in “Other current assets” in the
Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Contingent consideration liabilities relate to estimated
earn-out payments associated with one of the Other 2021Acquisitions. These payments are based on the acquiredcompany’s achievement of certain performance targets
based on the terms of the purchase agreement, and our
estimates are based on the expected payments related tothese targets. We have classified these liabilities asLevel 3. As of January 1, 2022, contingent consideration
Avery Dennison Corporation |2021 Annual Report 43Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
liabilities of approximately $2 million and $6 million were
included in “Other current liabilities” and “Long-term
retirement benefits and other liabilities,” respectively, in
the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The activity related to contingent consideration in
2021 is shown below.
(In millions)
Acquisition $11.6
Payments (2.6)Adjustments (1.4)
Balance at year end $ 7.6
In addition to the investments described above, we also
hold venture investments in privately held companies andutilize the measurement alternative for equity investments
that do not have readily determinable fair values, measuring
these investments at cost less impairment plus or minusobservable price changes in orderly transactions. Werecognized net gains of $23 million and $5.4 million in 2021and 2020, respectively, in “Other expense (income), net” in
the Consolidated Income Statements related to these venture
investments. The total carrying values of our ventureinvestments were $49.3 million and $22 million as ofJanuary 1, 2022 and January 2, 2021, respectively, and
included in “Other assets” in the Consolidated Balance
Sheets.
NOTE 10. NET INCOME PER COMMON SHARE
Net income per common share was computed as
follows:
(In millions, except per share
amounts) 2021 2020 2019
(A) Net income $740.1 $555.9 $303.6
(B) Weighted average number of
common shares outstanding 82.9 83.4 84.0
Dilutive shares (additional
common shares issuableunder stock-based awards) .9 .7 1.0
(C) Weighted average number of
common shares outstanding,assuming dilution 83.8 84.1 85.0
Net income per common share
(A) ÷ (B) $ 8.93 $ 6.67 $ 3.61
Net income per common share,
assuming dilution (A) ÷ (C) $ 8.83 $ 6.61 $ 3.57Certain stock-based compensation awards were not
included in the computation of net income per commonshare, assuming dilution, because they would not have
had a dilutive effect. Stock-based compensation awards
excluded from the computation were not significant in2021, 2020 or 2019.
NOTE 11. SUPPLEMENTAL EQUITY AND
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME INFORMATION
Common Stock and Share Repurchase Program
Our Amended and Restated Certificate of
Incorporation authorizes five million shares of $1 par valuepreferred stock (of which no shares are outstanding), with
respect to which our Board may fix the series and terms of
issuance, and 400 million shares of $1 par value votingcommon stock.
From time to time, our Board authorizes the
repurchase of shares of our outstanding common stock.
Repurchased shares may be reissued under our long-term
incentive plan or used for other corporate purposes. In2021, we repurchased approximately .9 million shares ofour common stock at an aggregate cost of $180.9 million.In 2020, we repurchased approximately .8 million shares
of our common stock at an aggregate cost of
$104.3 million.
In April 2019, our Board authorized the repurchase of
shares of our common stock with a fair market value of upto $650 million, exclusive of any fees, commissions orother expenses related to such purchases, in addition tothe amount then outstanding under our previous Boardauthorization. Board authorizations remain in effect untilshares in the amount authorized thereunder have beenrepurchased. Shares of our common stock in theaggregate amount of $359.6 million as of January 1, 2022remained authorized for repurchase under this Boardauthorization.
Treasury Shares Reissuance
We fund a portion of our employee-related expenses
using shares of our common stock held in treasury. Werecord net gains or losses associated with our use of
treasury shares to retained earnings.
44 2021 Annual Report |Avery Dennison CorporationNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss
The changes in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss” (net of tax) for 2021 and 2020 were as follows:
(In millions)Foreign
Currency
TranslationPension and
Other
Postretirement
BenefitsCash Flow
Hedges Total
Balance as of December 28, 2019 $(245.1) $(101.8) $(1.2) $(348.1)
Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications, net of tax (3.0) 6.2 (7.5) (4.3)Reclassifications to net income, net of tax – 2.9 (.1) 2.8
Net current-period other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax (3.0) 9.1 (7.6) (1.5)
Balance as of January 2, 2021 $(248.1) $ (92.7) $(8.8) $(349.6)
Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications, net of tax 30.7 27.9 5.4 64.0Reclassifications to net income, net of tax – 4.4 (1.7) 2.7
Net current-period other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax 30.7 32.3 3.7 66.7Balance as of January 1, 2022 $(217.4) $ (60.4) $(5.1) $(282.9)
The amounts reclassified from “Accumulated other comprehensive loss” to increase (decrease) net income were as
follows:
(In millions) 2021 2020 2019 Statements of Income Location
Cash flow hedges:
Foreign exchange contracts $ 1.3 $ .7 $ 2.1 Cost of products soldCommodity contracts .9 (.6) (.2) Cost of products sold
Total before tax 2.2 .1 1.9
Tax (.5) – (.5) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes
Net of tax 1.7 .1 1.4Pension and other postretirement benefits (6.0) (3.8) (445.4) Other non-operating expense (income), net
Tax 1.6 .9 179.3 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes
Net of tax (4.4) (2.9) (266.1)Total reclassifications for the period $(2.7) $(2.8) $(264.7)
The following table sets forth the income tax (benefit) expense allocated to each component of other comprehensive
income (loss):
(In millions) 2021 2020 2019
Foreign currency translation:
Translation gain (loss) $ (23.2) $ 27.5 $ (5.5)
Pension and other postretirement benefits:
Net gain recognized from actuarial gain/loss and prior service cost/credit 8.5 3.1 19.4Reclassifications to net income 1.6 .9 179.3
Cash flow hedges:
Gains (losses) recognized on cash flow hedges 1.7 (2.3) .2Reclassifications to net income (.5) – (.5)
Income tax (benefit) expense allocated to components of other comprehensive income (loss) $ (11.9) $ 29.2 $192.9
Avery Dennison Corporation |2021 Annual Report 45Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
NOTE 12. LONG-TERM INCENTIVE COMPENSATION
Stock-Based Awards
Stock-Based Compensation
We grant our annual stock-based compensation awards to eligible employees in March and non-employee directors in
May. Certain awards granted to retirement-eligible employees one year or more before their retirement date vest uponretirement; these awards are accounted for as fully vested one year from the date of grant.
Our 2017 Incentive Award Plan (the “Equity Plan”), a long-term incentive plan for employees and non-employee directors,
allows us to grant stock-based compensation awards – including stock options, RSUs, PUs, MSUs and DSUs – or acombination of these and other awards. Under the Equity Plan, 5.4 million shares are available for issuance, and each full valueaward is counted as 1.5 shares for purposes of the number of shares authorized for issuance. Full value awards include RSUs,PUs and MSUs.
S t o c k - b a s e dc o m p e n s a t i o ne x p e n s ea n dt h er e l a t e dr e c o g n i z e dt a xb e n e f i tw e r ea sf o l l o w s :
(In millions) 2021 2020 2019
Stock-based compensation expense $37.2 $24.0 $34.5
Tax benefit 4.6 2.9 4.3
This expense was included in “Marketing, general and administrative expense” in the Consolidated Statements of
Income.
As of January 1, 2022, we had approximately $47 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to
unvested stock-based awards, which is expected to be recognized over the remaining weighted average requisite serviceperiod of approximately two years.
Stock Options
Stock options may be granted to employees and non-employee directors at no less than 100% of the fair market
value of our common stock on the date of the grant and generally vest ratably over a four-year period. Options expire tenyears from the date of grant.
No stock options were granted in fiscal years 2021, 2020 or 2019.The following table summarizes information related to stock options:
Number of
options
(in thousands)Weighted average
exercise priceWeighted average
remaining
contractual life
(in years)Aggregate
intrinsic value
(in millions)
Outstanding at January 2, 2021 162.1 $ 68.84 4.86 $ 14.0
Exercised (20.1) 34.19
Outstanding at January 1, 2022 142.0 $ 73.76 4.40 $ 20.3
Options vested and expected to vest at January 1, 2022 142.0 73.76 4.40 20.3Options exercisable at January 1, 2022 142.0 $ 73.76 4.40 $ 20.3
The total intrinsic value of stock options exercised
was $3.5 million in 2021, $4 million in 2020 and$23.5 million in 2019. We received approximately
$1 million in 2021, $2 million in 2020 and $10 million in
2019 from the exercise of stock options. The tax benefitassociated with these exercised options was $.9 million in2021, $1 million in 2020 and $5.7 million in 2019. Theintrinsic value of a stock option is based on the amount by
which the market value of our stock exceeds the exercise
price of the option.Performance Units (“PUs”)
PUs are performance-based awards granted to
eligible employees under the Equity Plan. PUs are payablein shares of our common stock at the end of a three- orfour-year cliff vesting period provided that the designated
performance objectives are achieved at the end of the
period. Over the performance period, the estimatednumber of shares of our common stock issuable uponvesting is adjusted upward or downward based on theprobability of achieving the performance objectives
established for the award. The actual number of shares
issued can range from 0% to 200% of the target shares atthe time of grant. The weighted average grant date fair
46 2021 Annual Report |Avery Dennison CorporationNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
value for PUs was $191.86, $115.07 and $104.43 in
2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
The following table summarizes information related to
awarded PUs:
Number of
PUs
(in thousands)Weighted
average
grant-date
fair value
Unvested at January 2, 2021 356.6 $ 112.31
Granted at target 73.1 191.86Adjustment for above-target
performance
(1) 54.3 122.96
Vested (156.1) 122.96Forfeited/cancelled (5.8) 132.92
Unvested at January 1, 2022 322.1 $ 127.33
(1)Reflects adjustments for the vesting of awards based on above-target performance
for the 2018-2020 performance period.
The fair value of vested PUs was $19.2 million in
2021, $20.4 million in 2020 and $25.6 million in 2019.
Market-Leveraged Stock Units (“MSUs”)
MSUs are performance-based awards granted to
eligible employees under our equity plans. MSUs arepayable in shares of our common stock over a four-year
period provided that the designated performance
objective is achieved as of the end of each vesting period.MSUs accrue dividend equivalents during the vestingperiod, which are earned and paid only at vesting provided
that, at a minimum, threshold-level performance is
achieved. The number of shares earned is based upon ourabsolute total shareholder return at each vesting date andcan range from 0% to 200% of the target amount ofMSUs subject to vesting. Each of the four vesting periods
represents one tranche of MSUs and the fair value of each
of these four tranches was determined using the Monte-Carlo simulation model, which utilizes multiple inputvariables, including expected stock price volatility andother assumptions, to estimate the probability of achieving
the performance objective established for the award. The
weighted average grant date fair value for MSUs was$216.06, $94.55 and $135.85 in 2021, 2020 and 2019,respectively.The following table summarizes information related to
awarded MSUs:
Number of
MSUs
(in thousands)Weighted
average
grant-date
fair value
Unvested at January 2, 2021 235.9 $ 110.89
Granted at target 61.2 216.06Adjustments for above-target
performance
(1) 62.7 113.24
Vested (160.1) 110.99Forfeited/cancelled (4.5) 141.78
Unvested at January 1, 2022 195.2 $ 143.16
(1)Reflects adjustments for the vesting of awards based on above-target performance
for each of the tranches of awards vesting in 2021.
The fair value of vested MSUs was $17.8 million in
2021, $17.6 million in 2020 and $15.9 million in 2019.
Restricted Stock Units (“RSUs”)
RSUs are service-based awards granted to eligible
employees and non-employee directors under our equityplans. RSUs granted to employees generally vest ratably overa period of three or four years. RSUs granted tonon-employee directors generally vest in one year. Thevesting of RSUs is subject to continued service through theapplicable vesting date. If that condition is not met, unvestedRSUs are generally forfeited. The weighted average grantdate fair value for RSUs was $196.26, $111.71 and $107.18in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
The following table summarizes information related to
awarded RSUs:
Number of
RSUs
(in thousands)Weighted
average
grant-date
fair value
Unvested at January 2, 2021 51.4 $ 109.47
Granted 11.2 196.26Vested (26.1) 104.70Forfeited/cancelled (.4) 108.44Unvested at January 1, 2022 36.1 $ 139.82
The fair value of vested RSUs was $2.7 million,
$3.8 million and $4.4 million in 2021, 2020 and 2019,respectively.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2021 Annual Report 47Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Cash-Based Awards
Long-Term Incentive Units (“LTI Units”)
LTI Units are cash-based awards granted to employees
under our long-term incentive unit plan. LTI Units are service-based awards that generally vest ratably over a four-yearperiod. The settlement value equals the number of vested LTIUnits multiplied by the average of the high and low marketprices of our common stock on the vesting date. Thecompensation expense related to these awards is amortizedon a straight-line basis and the fair value is remeasured usingthe estimated percentage of units expected to be earnedmultiplied by the average of the high and low market pricesof our common stock at each quarter-end.
We also grant performance-based, cash-based awards
in the form of performance and market-leveraged LTI Unitsto eligible employees. Performance LTI Units are payable incash at the end of a three-year cliff vesting period providedthat certain performance objectives are achieved at the endof the performance period. Market-leveraged LTI Units arepayable in cash and vest ratably over a period of four years.The number of performance and market-leveraged LTI Unitsearned at vesting is adjusted upward or downward basedupon the probability of achieving the performance objectivesestablished for the respective award and the actual numberof units issued can range from 0% to 200% of thedesignated target units subject to vesting. Performance andmarket-leveraged LTI Units are remeasured using theestimated percentage of units expected to be earnedmultiplied by the average of the high and low market pricesof our common stock at each quarter-end over theirrespective performance periods. The compensation expenserelated to performance LTI Units is amortized on a straight-line basis over their respective performance periods. Thecompensation expense related to market-leveraged LTI Unitsis amortized on a graded-vesting basis over their respectiveperformance periods.
The compensation expense related to LTI Units was
$21.3 million in 2021, $13.8 million in 2020 and$19.1 million in 2019. This expense was included in“Marketing, general and administrative expense” in theConsolidated Statements of Income. The total recognized tax
benefit related to LTI Units was $5.1 million in 2021,
$3.3 million in 2020 and $4.4 million in 2019.
NOTE 13. COST REDUCTION ACTIONS
Restructuring Charges
We have plans that provide eligible employees with
severance benefits in the event of an involuntarytermination. We calculate severance using the benefit
formulas under the applicable plans. We record
restructuring charges from qualifying cost reductionactions for severance and other exit costs (including asset
impairment charges and lease and other contract
cancellation costs) when they are probable and estimable.
2019/2020 Actions
During fiscal year 2021, we recorded $13.3 million in
restructuring charges, net of reversals, related to our2019/2020 actions. These charges consisted of severance
and related costs for the reduction of approximately 360
positions and asset impairment charges at numerouslocations across our company, primarily reflecting actionsin our LGM and RBIS reportable segments. The actions inour LGM reportable segment were primarily associatedwith consolidations of operations in North America and its
graphics business in Europe, in part in response to
COVID-19. The actions in our RBIS reportable segmentwere primarily related to global headcount and footprintreduction, with some actions accelerated and expanded in
response to COVID-19. During fiscal year 2020, we
recorded $56 million in restructuring charges, net ofreversals, related to our 2019/2020 actions. These chargesconsisted of severance and related costs for the reductionof approximately 2,160 positions, as well as asset
impairment charges. Our activities related to our
2019/2020 actions began in the fourth quarter of fiscalyear 2019 and continued through fiscal year 2021.
2018/2019 Actions
In April 2018, we approved a restructuring plan (the
“2018 Plan”) to consolidate the European footprint of ourLGM reportable segment, which reduced headcount by
approximately 390 positions, including temporary labor, in
connection with the closure of a manufacturing facility. Thisreduction was partially offset by headcount additions inother locations, resulting in a net reduction of approximately150 positions. During fiscal years 2021 and 2020, net
restructuring reversals related to the 2018 Plan were not
material. The cumulative charges associated with the 2018Plan consisted of severance and related costs for theheadcount reduction, as well as asset impairment charges.
Our activities related to the 2018 Plan were substantially
completed as of the end of the second quarter of 2019.
Net restructuring reversals during fiscal years 2021 and
2020 related to other 2018/2019 actions were not material.
Accruals for severance and related costs and lease
cancellation costs were included in “Other current
liabilities” in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Assetimpairment charges were based on the estimated marketvalue of the assets, less selling costs, if applicable.Restructuring charges were included in “Other expense
(income), net” in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
48 2021 Annual Report |Avery Dennison CorporationNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
During 2021, restructuring charges and payments were as follows:
(In millions)Accrual at
January 2,
2021Charges,
Net of
ReversalsCash
PaymentsNon-cash
ImpairmentForeign
Currency
TranslationAccrual at
January 1,
2022
2019/2020 Actions
Severance and related costs $28.3 $10.3 $(26.2) $ – $(.9) $11.5Asset impairment charges – 2.4 – (2.4) – –Lease cancellation costs – .6 (.6) – – –
2018/2019 Actions
Lease cancellation costs .3 – (.3) – – –
Total $28.6 $13.3 $(27.1) $(2.4) $(.9) $11.5
During 2020, restructuring charges and payments were as follows:
(In millions)Accrual at
December 28,
2019Charges,
Net of
ReversalsCash
PaymentsNon-cash
ImpairmentForeign
Currency
TranslationAccrual at
January 2,
2021
2019/2020 Actions
Severance and related costs $21.9 $49.8 $(45.7) $ – $2.3 $28.3Asset impairment charges – 6.2 – (6.2) – –
2018/2019 Actions
Severance and related costs 6.5 (.7) (6.0) – .2 –Lease cancellation costs .3 – – – – .3
Total $28.7 $55.3 $(51.7) $(6.2) $2.5 $28.6
The table below shows the total amount of restructuring charges incurred by reportable segment and Corporate.
(In millions) 2021 2020 2019
Restructuring charges by reportable segment and Corporate
Label and Graphic Materials $ 3.4 $ 27.9 $ 29.0
Retail Branding and Information Solutions 7.6 18.7 9.8Industrial and Healthcare Materials 1.6 8.4 9.4
Corporate 1.0 .3 2.2
Total $13.6 $ 55.3 $ 50.4
NOTE 14. TAXES BASED ON INCOME
Taxes based on income were as follows:
(In millions) 2021 2020 2019
Current:
U.S. federal tax $ 7.3 $ 1.1 $ 11.0
State taxes 5.3 1.9 .5
International taxes 229.9 168.5 148.1
242.5 171.5 159.6
Deferred:
U.S. federal tax (1.1) 5.0 (168.0)
State taxes (5.3) 1.6 (8.9)
International taxes 12.5 (.4) (39.4)
6.1 6.2 (216.3)
Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $248.6 $177.7 $ (56.7)
Avery Dennison Corporation |2021 Annual Report 49Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
The principal items accounting for the difference between taxes computed at U.S. federal statutory rate and taxes
recorded were as follows:
(In millions) 2021 2020 2019
Tax provision computed at U.S. federal statutory rate(1) $208.5 $154.8 $ 52.4
Increase (decrease) in taxes resulting from:
State taxes, net of federal tax benefit(1) 4.5 6.9 (12.8)
U.S. pension plan settlements and related charges(1) – – (76.6)
Foreign earnings taxed at different rates(2) 75.4 51.4 56.2
GILTI high-tax exclusion election, net(3) (22.8) (12.5) –
Foreign tax structuring and planning transactions(4) – – (47.9)
Excess tax benefits associated with stock-based payments (4.1) (3.2) (7.8)Valuation allowance (4.8) (3.3) 2.0
U.S. federal research and development tax credits (6.2) (6.2) (6.1)Tax contingencies and audit settlements 3.9 (5.5) (11.8)Other items, net (5.8) (4.7) (4.3)
Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $248.6 $177.7 $(56.7)
(1)Included in 2019 are tax effects of the pension plan settlement charges associated with the termination of the ADPP. In 2019, tax benefit of $102 millio n on the pretax charge was
reflected in the tax provision computed at U.S. federal statutory rate and state taxes, net of federal tax benefit. Moreover, in 2019, the tax benefit o f $77 million related to the
release of stranded tax effects in AOCI through the income statement was reflected in U.S. pension plan settlements and related charges.
(2)All years included certain U.S. international tax provisions and foreign earnings taxed in the U.S., net of credits.
(3)In 2021, we recognized $14.1 million and $8.7 million of benefit related to GILTI exclusion elections made on our amended 2018 and originally filed 202 0 U.S. federal tax returns,
respectively. In 2020, we recognized $12.5 million of benefit related to a GILTI exclusion election we planned to make on our amended 2019 U.S. federal tax return.
(4)In 2019, we recognized a net tax benefit of $47.9 million related to a foreign structuring transaction. This net benefit resulted from the elimination of recapture conditions to which
our previously recognized net operating losses were subject. By eliminating these conditions, our losses became permanent, and the offsetting defe rred tax liability related to future
recapture was released.
Income before taxes from our U.S. and international
operations was as follows:
(In millions) 2021 2020 2019
U.S. $ 88.0 $123.8 $(355.4)
International 904.6 613.5 604.9
Income before taxes $992.6 $737.3 $ 249.5
Our effective tax rate was 25%, 24.1% and (22.7)%
for fiscal years 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
Our 2021 provision for (benefit from) income taxes
included (i) $28.5 million of net tax charge related to thet a xo ng l o b a li n t a n g i b l el o w - t a x e di n c o m e( “ G I L T I ” )o fo u rforeign subsidiaries and the recognition of foreignwithholding taxes on current year earnings, partially offsetby the benefit from foreign-derived intangible income(“FDII”); (ii) $14.1 million of return-to-provision benefitrelated to a GILTI exclusion election made on our amended2018 U.S. federal tax return; and (iii) $11.3 million ofreturn-to-provision benefit, including $8.7 million related toa GILTI exclusion election and a higher FDII deduction
reflected on our 2020 U.S. federal tax return.
In fiscal year 2020, the U.S. Department of Treasury
issued final regulations that provide certain U.S. taxpayerswith an annual election to exclude foreign income subject toa high effective tax rate from their GILTI inclusions. Thisannual election included an option for retroactive applicationto tax years 2018 through 2020. We recognized related taxbenefits for tax years 2018 through 2020 as of January 1,
2022. We have not yet determined whether to make theelection for tax year 2021. We continue to evaluate theimpact of these regulations and currently anticipate that the
benefit from making this election on our 2021 U.S. federal
tax return may be significant.
Our 2021 provision for (benefit from) income taxes
also reflected (i) net tax benefit primarily from the releaseof valuation allowance against certain deferred tax assetsin the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions; (ii) net tax benefitprimarily from decreases in certain tax reserves, includinginterest and penalties, as a result of closing tax years; and(iii) net tax charges related to the tax effects of outcomesof certain legal proceedings.
Our 2020 provision for (benefit from) income taxes
included (i) $22.1 million of net tax charge related to the
tax on GILTI of our foreign subsidiaries and the recognitionof foreign withholding taxes on current year earnings,partially offset by the benefit from FDII; (ii) a $12.5 millionreturn-to-provision adjustment related to an election weplanned to make on our 2019 amended U.S. tax return;and (iii) net tax benefit primarily from decreases in certaintax reserves, including interest and penalties, as a result ofclosing tax years in foreign jurisdictions, partially offset byincreases in reserves from changes in judgment andadditional interest and penalty accruals.
Our 2019 provision for (benefit from) income taxes
included $179 million of tax benefit related to the effectivesettlement of the ADPP, $102 million of which was the
50 2021 Annual Report |Avery Dennison CorporationNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
related tax effect on the pretax charge of $444 million and
$77 million of which was related to the release of stranded
tax effects in AOCI through the income statement. The tax
e f f e c t sw e r es t r a n d e dp r i m a r i l ya sar e s u l to ft h eU . S .f e d e r a ltax rate change under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Refer to
Note 6, “Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits,” for
more information. Our 2019 provision for (benefit from)income taxes also reflected the following items: (i)
$47.9 million of tax benefit from a foreign tax structuring
transaction resulting in previously recognized tax lossesbecoming permanent; (ii) $24.7 million of net tax charge
related to the tax on GILTI of our foreign subsidiaries and the
recognition of foreign withholding taxes on current yearearnings, partially offset by the benefit from FDII; (iii) net taxbenefit primarily from the effective settlement of certain
German tax audits and decreases in reserves as a result of
closing tax years; and (iv) excess tax benefits associatedwith stock-based payments.
Our accumulated earnings in foreign subsidiaries are
not indefinitely reinvested and can generally berepatriated to the U.S. without material tax consequences.
As of January 1, 2022, we recorded a deferred tax liability
of $16.2 million related to future tax consequences fromrepatriating our accumulated earnings in foreign
subsidiaries that are not indefinitely reinvested.
Deferred Taxes
Deferred taxes reflect the temporary differences
between the amounts at which assets and liabilities are
recorded for financial reporting purposes and the amounts
utilized for tax purposes. The primary components of thetemporary differences that gave rise to our deferred tax
assets and liabilities were as follows:
(In millions) 2021 2020
Accrued expenses not currently deductible $ 34.6 $ 28.1
Net operating loss carryforwards 154.4 161.4Tax credit carryforwards 34.6 55.9
Stock-based compensation 13.6 10.7
Pension and other postretirement benefits 38.8 52.4
Inventory reserve 14.7 12.9
Lease liabilities 42.5 39.0Other assets 25.3 16.1
Valuation allowance (70.1) (68.2)
Total deferred tax assets
(1) 288.4 308.3
Depreciation and amortization (268.9) (80.2)
Repatriation accrual (16.2) (39.0)Foreign operating loss recapture (3.4) (3.6)
Lease assets (43.8) (38.7)
Total deferred tax liabilities
(1) (332.3) (161.5)
Total net deferred tax assets (liabilities)(2) $ (43.9) $ 146.8
(1)Reflect gross amounts before jurisdictional netting of deferred tax assets and liabilities.
(2)2021 included deferred tax liabilities recognized as a result of the acquisition of
Vestcom described in Note 2, “Acquisitions.”We assess the available positive and negative
evidence to estimate if sufficient future taxable income isexpected to be generated to use existing deferred tax
assets. On the basis of our assessment, we record
valuation allowances only with respect to the portion ofthe deferred tax asset that is not more-likely-than-not tobe realized. Our assessment of the future realizability ofour deferred tax assets relies heavily on our forecastedearnings in certain jurisdictions determined by the manner
in which we operate our business and the relevant
carryforward periods. Any changes to our operations mayaffect our assessment of deferred tax assets consideredrealizable if the positive evidence no longer outweighs thenegative evidence.
Net operating loss carryforwards of foreign
subsidiaries at January 1, 2022 and January 2, 2021 were$508 million and $563 million, respectively. Tax creditcarryforwards of both domestic and foreign subsidiaries atJanuary 1, 2022 and January 2, 2021 totaled $35 million
and $56 million, respectively. If unused, foreign net
operating losses and tax credit carryforwards will expireas follows:
(In millions)
Year of Expiry Net Operating Losses(1) Tax Credits
2022 $ 1.7 $ .4
2023 3.8 .42024 2.9 .22025 3.2 .22026 9.4 1.02027-2041 19.9 28.2Indefinite life/no expiry 467.0 4.2
Total $507.9 $34.6
(1)Net operating losses are presented before tax effects and valuation allowance.
Certain indefinite-lived foreign net operating losses
may require decades to be fully utilized under our currentbusiness model.
At January 1, 2022, we had net operating loss
carryforwards in certain states of $547 million before taxeffects. Based on our estimates of future state taxableincome, it is more-likely-than-not that the majority ofthese carryforwards will not be realized before they
expire. Accordingly, a valuation allowance has been
recorded on $479 million of these carryforwards.
As of January 1, 2022, our provision for (benefit from)
income taxes did not materially benefit from applicable taxholidays in foreign jurisdictions.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2021 Annual Report 51Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Unrecognized Tax Benefits
As of January 1, 2022, our unrecognized tax benefits
totaled $74 million, $68 million of which, if recognized,would reduce our annual effective income tax rate. As of
January 2, 2021, our unrecognized tax benefits totaled
$72 million, $63 million of which, if recognized, wouldreduce our annual effective income tax rate.
Where applicable, we accrue potential interest and
penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in incometax expense. The interest and penalties we recognized
during fiscal years 2021, 2020 and 2019 were not
material, individually or in aggregate, to the ConsolidatedStatements of Income. We have accrued balances of$19 million and $22 million for interest and penalties, netof tax benefit, in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at
January 1, 2022 and January 2, 2021, respectively.
A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amounts
of unrecognized tax benefits is set forth below.
(In millions) 2021 2020
Balance at beginning of year $72.0 $69.9
Additions for tax positions of current year 9.1 6.5Additions (reductions) for tax positions of prior
years, net 1.2 5.2
Settlements with tax authorities (1.1) (3.3)Expirations of statutes of limitations (5.2) (8.7)Changes due to translation of foreign currencies (2.0) 2.4
Balance at end of year $74.0 $72.0
It is reasonably possible that, during the next 12
months, we may realize a decrease in our uncertain taxpositions, including interest and penalties, of approximately
$9 million, primarily as a result of closing tax years.
The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to
ongoing audits by taxing jurisdictions around the world.Our estimate of the potential outcome of any uncertain taxissue is subject to our assessment of the relevant risks,
facts, and circumstances existing at the time. We believe
we have adequately provided for reasonably foreseeableoutcomes related to these matters. However, our futureresults may include favorable or unfavorable adjustments
to our estimated tax liabilities in the period the
assessments are made or resolved, which may impact oureffective tax rate. The final determination of tax audits andany related legal proceedings could materially differ from
amounts reflected in our tax provision for (benefit from)income taxes and the related liabilities. To date, we andour U.S. subsidiaries have completed the IRS’ ComplianceAssurance Process Program through 2018. With limited
exceptions, we are no longer subject to income tax
examinations by tax authorities for years prior to 2010.
NOTE 15. SEGMENT AND DISAGGREGATED REVENUE
INFORMATION
Segment Reporting
We have the following reportable segments:
• Label and Graphic Materials – manufactures and sells
pressure-sensitive label and packaging materials andfilms for graphic and reflective products;
• Retail Branding and Information Solutions – designs,
manufactures and sells a wide variety of branding and
information solutions, including brand and price
tickets, tags and labels (including RFID inlays), andrelated services, supplies and equipment; and
• Industrial and Healthcare Materials – manufactures
and sells performance tapes and other adhesiveproducts for industrial, medical and otherapplications, as well as fastener solutions.
Intersegment sales are recorded at or near market
prices and are eliminated in determining consolidated
sales. We evaluate our performance based on incomefrom operations before interest expense and taxes.Corporate expense is excluded from the computation ofincome from operations for the segments.
We do not disclose total assets by reportable
segment since we neither generate nor review thatinformation internally. As our reporting structure is neitherorganized nor reviewed internally by country, results byindividual country are not provided.
Disaggregated Revenue Information
Disaggregated revenue information is shown below in
the manner that best depicts how the nature, amount, timingand uncertainty of our revenue and cash flows are affectedby economic factors. Revenue from our LGM reportablesegment is attributed to geographic areas based on the
location from which products are shipped. Revenue from our
RBIS reportable segment is shown by product group.
52 2021 Annual Report |Avery Dennison CorporationNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
(In millions) 2021 2020 2019
Net sales to unaffiliated
customers
Label and Graphic Materials:
U.S. $1,462.5 $1,294.3 $1,246.6Europe 2,025.5 1,758.1 1,767.9Asia 1,224.5 1,040.8 1,065.0Latin America 395.4 340.3 375.4Other international 322.5 281.6 291.0
Total Label and Graphic
Materials 5,430.4 4,715.1 4,745.9
Retail Branding and Information
Solutions:
Apparel 1,839.1 1,432.3 1,458.5Identification Solutions
(1)and
Vestcom 362.7 198.6 191.8
Total Retail Branding and
Information Solutions 2,201.8 1,630.9 1,650.3
Industrial and Healthcare
Materials 776.1 625.5 673.9
Net sales to unaffiliated
customers $8,408.3 $6,971.5 $7,070.1
(1)Previously referred to as Printer Solutions
Revenue by geographic area is shown below.
Revenue is attributed to geographic areas based on thelocation from which products are shipped.
(In millions) 2021 2020 2019
Net sales to unaffiliated
customers
U.S. $2,065.2 $1,683.6 $1,638.8Europe 2,541.4 2,164.7 2,160.2Asia 2,914.5 2,378.5 2,458.5Latin America 537.6 440.3 498.3Other international 349.6 304.4 314.3
Net sales to unaffiliated
customers $8,408.3 $6,971.5 $7,070.1
Net sales to unaffiliated customers in Asia included
sales in China (including Hong Kong) of $1.68 billion in2021, $1.31 billion in 2020 and $1.38 billion in 2019.
No single customer represented 10% or more of our
net sales in year-end 2021, 2020 and 2019. During 2021,2020 and 2019, our ten largest customers by net sales inthe aggregate represented approximately 16%, 17% and16% of our net sales, respectively.Additional Segment Information
Additional financial information by reportable
segment is shown below.
(In millions) 2021 2020 2019
Intersegment sales
Label and Graphic Materials $ 98.5 $ 80.3 $ 80.2Retail Branding and Information
Solutions 37.3 27.5 20.6
Industrial and Healthcare
Materials 13.3 6.4 8.8
Intersegment sales $ 149.1 $ 114.2 $ 109.6Income before taxes
Label and Graphic Materials $ 801.7 $ 688.8 $ 601.5Retail Branding and Information
Solutions 257.2 144.7 196.6
Industrial and Healthcare
Materials 81.6 58.2 60.0
Corporate expense (81.8) (82.5) (87.6)Interest expense (70.2) (70.0) (75.8)Other non-operating expense
(income), net 4.1 (1.9) (445.2)
Income before taxes $ 992.6 $ 737.3 $ 249.5Capital expenditures
(1) (2)
Label and Graphic Materials $ 133.6 $ 87.3 $ 137.8
Retail Branding and Information
Solutions 96.3 101.6 63.1
Industrial and Healthcare
Materials 36.7 17.3 24.2
Capital expenditures $ 266.6 $ 206.2 $ 225.1Depreciation and amortization
expense
(1)
Label and Graphic Materials $ 114.3 $ 107.0 $ 100.2
Retail Branding and Information
Solutions 102.2 71.6 52.6
Industrial and Healthcare
Materials 27.6 26.7 26.2
Depreciation and amortization
expense $ 244.1 $ 205.3 $ 179.0
Other expense (income), net by
reportable segment
Label and Graphic Materials $ (28.1) $ 22.2 $ 28.3Retail Branding and Information
Solutions 36.6 22.7 9.9
Industrial and Healthcare
Materials 2.4 8.4 9.4
Corporate (5.3) .3 5.6
Other expense (income), net $ 5.6 $ 53.6 $ 53.2
(1)Corporate capital expenditures and depreciation and amortization expense are
allocated to the reportable segments based on their percentage of consolidated netsales.
(2)Capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment include accruals.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2021 Annual Report 53Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Other expense (income), net by type were as follows:
(In millions) 2021 2020 2019
Other expense (income), net
by type
Restructuring charges:
Severance and related costs $ 10.5 $ 49.1 $ 45.3Asset impairment charges
and lease cancellationcosts 3.1 6.2 5.1
Other items:
Transaction and related
costs 20.9 4.2 2.6
Loss (gain) on sales of
assets, net .2 (.5) (3.2)
Gain on venture
investments, net (23.0) (5.4) –
Gain on sale of product line (5.7) – –
Outcomes of legal
proceedings, net
(1) (.4) – 3.4
Other expense (income), net $ 5.6 $ 53.6 $ 53.2
(1)2021 includes an indirect tax credit based on a Brazilian Federal Supreme Court
ruling in our favor in the amount of $29.1 million, partially offset by a contingentliability related to a patent infringement lawsuit in the amount of $26.6 million. Refer
to Note 8, “Contingencies” for more information related to the patent infringement
lawsuit.
Property, plant and equipment, net, in our U.S. and
international operations were as follows:
(In millions) 2021 2020 2019
Property, plant and
equipment, net
U.S. $ 524.0 $ 403.1 $ 366.9International 953.7 940.6 843.8
Property, plant and equipment,
net $ 1,477.7 $ 1,343.7 $ 1,210.7
Property, plant and equipment, net, located in China
(including Hong Kong) was approximately $290 million in2021, approximately $297 million in 2020 and
approximately $282 million in 2019.
NOTE 16. SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Inventories
Inventories at year-end were as follows:
(In millions) 2021 2020
Raw materials $ 393.6 $ 268.6
Work-in-progress 233.1 210.3Finished goods 280.5 238.3
Inventories $ 907.2 $ 717.2Property, Plant and Equipment
Major classes of property, plant and equipment,
stated at cost, at year-end were as follows:
(In millions) 2021 2020
Land $ 28.6 $ 26.1
Buildings and improvements 777.6 746.4Machinery and equipment 2,582.2 2,538.6Construction-in-progress 237.8 165.2
Property, plant and equipment 3,626.2 3,476.3
Accumulated depreciation (2,148.5) (2,132.6)
Property, plant and equipment, net $ 1,477.7 $ 1,343.7
Software
Capitalized software costs at year-end were as
follows:
(In millions) 2021 2020
Cost $ 403.9 $ 506.5
Accumulated amortization (280.6) (370.1)
Software, net $ 123.3 $ 136.4
Software amortization expense was $30.1 million in
2021, $29 million in 2020 and $20.8 million in 2019.
Allowance for Credit Losses
Given the short-term nature of trade receivables, our
allowance for credit losses is based on the financialcondition of customers, the aging of receivable balances,
our historical collections experience, and current and
expected future macroeconomic and market conditions,including as a result of COVID-19. Balances are writtenoff in the period in which they are determined to beuncollectible.
The activity related to our allowance for credit losses
was as follows:
(In millions) 2021 2020
Balance at beginning of year $ 44.6 $ 27.1
(Reversal of) provision for credit losses(1) (4.7) 20.3
Amounts written off (7.7) (5.7)Other, including foreign currency
translation .8 2.9
Balance at end of year $ 33.0 $ 44.6
(1)For 2020, our provision for credit losses reflected impacts on customers as a result of
COVID-19.
The provision for credit losses was $10.6 million in
2019.
54 2021 Annual Report |Avery Dennison CorporationNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Research and Development
Research and development expense, which is
included in “Marketing, general and administrativeexpense” in the Consolidated Statements of Income, was
as follows:
(In millions) 2021 2020 2019
Research and development
expense $ 136.6 $ 112.8 $ 92.6
Supplemental Cash Flow Information
Cash paid for interest and income taxes was as
follows:
(In millions) 2021 2020 2019
Interest $ 62.8 $ 69.6 $ 74.3
Income taxes, net of refunds 253.4 203.4 155.0
Foreign Currency Effects
Gains and losses resulting from foreign currency
transactions are included in income in the period incurred.Transactions in foreign currencies (including receivables,
payables and loans denominated in currencies other than
the functional currency), including hedging impacts, werenot material in 2021, 2020 or 2019.Deferred Revenue
Deferred revenue primarily relates to constrained variable
consideration on supply agreements for sales of products, aswell as to payments received in advance of performance
under a contract. Deferred revenue is recognized as revenue
as or when we perform under a contract.
The following table shows the amounts and balance
sheet locations of deferred revenue as of January 1, 2022and January 2, 2021:
(In millions) January 1, 2022 January 2, 2021
Other current liabilities $24.7 $18.9
Long-term retirement
benefits and otherliabilities 1.9 1.4
Total deferred revenue $26.6 $20.3
Revenue recognized from amounts included in
deferred revenue as of January 2, 2021 was $18.4 millionin 2021. Revenue recognized from amounts included in
deferred revenue as of December 28, 2019 was
$12 million in 2020. Revenue recognized from amountsincluded in deferred revenue as of December 29, 2018was $10.8 million in 2019. This revenue was included in“Net sales” in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2021 Annual Report 55STATEMENT OF MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The consolidated financial statements and accompanying information are the responsibility of and were prepared by
management. The statements were prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the UnitedStates of America and, as such, include amounts that are based on management’s best estimates and judgments.
Oversight of management’s financial reporting and internal accounting control responsibilities is exercised by our
Board of Directors, through its Audit and Finance Committee, which is comprised solely of independent directors. TheCommittee meets periodically with financial management, internal auditors and our independent registered public
accounting firm to obtain reasonable assurance that each is meeting its responsibilities and to discuss matters concerning
auditing, internal accounting control and financial reporting. The independent registered public accounting firm and ourinternal audit department have free access to, and periodically meet with, the Audit and Finance Committee withoutmanagement present.
MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as
that term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f) and 15(d)-15(f). Under the supervision and with the participation ofmanagement, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control – Integrated
Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on our
evaluation under the framework in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) , management has concluded that
internal control over financial reporting was effective as of January 1, 2022. The effectiveness of internal control overfinancial reporting as of January 1, 2022 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered
public accounting firm, as stated in their report included herein.
We have excluded Vestcom from our assessment of internal control over financial reporting as of January 1, 2022
because we acquired the company in a purchase business combination during the third quarter of fiscal year 2021.
Vestcom is a wholly-owned subsidiary, whose total assets (excluding goodwill and other intangibles, which are in thescope of our assessment) represents 3% and whose total revenue represents 2% of the related consolidated financialstatement amounts as of and for the year ended January 1, 2022.
Mitchell R. Butier Gregory S. LovinsChairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
56 2021 Annual Report |Avery Dennison CorporationReport of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Avery Dennison Corporation
Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Avery Dennison Corporation and its subsidiaries
(the “Company”) as of January 1, 2022 and January 2, 2021, and the related consolidated statements of income, ofcomprehensive income, of shareholders’ equity, and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
January 1, 2022, including the related notes (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). We also
have audited the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of January 1, 2022, based on criteria establishedinInternal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO).
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of the Company as of January 1, 2022 and January 2, 2021, and the results of its operations and its cashflows for each of the three years in the period ended January 1, 2022 in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective
internal control over financial reporting as of January 1, 2022, based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated
Framework (2013) issued by the COSO.
Basis for Opinions
The Company’s management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective
internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financialreporting, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our
responsibility is to express opinions on the Company’s consolidated financial statements and on the Company’s internal
control over financial reporting based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public CompanyAccounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent with respect to the Companyin accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities andExchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of
material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective internal control over financial reporting wasmaintained in all material respects.
Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included performing procedures to assess the risks of material
misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures thatrespond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and
disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used
and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidatedfinancial statements. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internalcontrol over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the designand operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for
our opinions.
As described in Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting, management has excluded CB
Velocity Holdings, LLC (“Vestcom”) from its assessment of internal control over financial reporting as of January 1, 2022,because it was acquired by the Company in a purchase business combination during 2021. We have also excludedVestcom from our audit of internal control over financial reporting. Vestcom is a wholly-owned subsidiary whose total
assets and total revenues excluded from management’s assessment and our audit of internal control over financial
reporting represent 3% and 2%, respectively, of the related consolidated financial statement amounts as of and for theyear ended January 1, 2022.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2021 Annual Report 57Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes inaccordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes
those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactionsare recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accountingprinciples, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations ofmanagement and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timelydetection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may becomeinadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures maydeteriorate.
Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current period audit of the consolidated
financial statements that were communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (i) relate toaccounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated financial statements and (ii) involved our especially
challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way ouropinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit
matters below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which theyrelate.
Income Taxes
As described in Notes 1 and 14 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company is subject to income tax in the
U.S. and multiple foreign jurisdictions, whereby management applies judgment in evaluating and estimating the
Company’s worldwide provision, accruals for taxes, deferred taxes and for evaluating the Company’s tax positions. As ofand for the year ended January 1, 2022, management recorded a provision for income taxes of $248.6 million, recordedtotal deferred tax assets of $130.2 million and disclosed unrecognized tax benefits of $74 million. As disclosed bymanagement, significant judgments and estimates are required by management when determining the Company’s tax
expense and evaluating tax positions, including uncertainties. Management’s estimate of the potential outcome of
uncertain tax issues is subject to management’s assessment of relevant facts and circumstances existing at the balancesheet date, as well as existing laws, regulations and practices of any governmental authorities exercising jurisdiction overthe Company’s operations. Management’s assessment of the future realizability of the Company’s deferred tax assetsrelies heavily on forecasted earnings in certain jurisdictions, and such forecasted earnings are determined by the manner
in which the Company operates its business.
The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures relating to income taxes is a critical
audit matter are (i) the significant judgment by management when accounting for income taxes, including evaluating thepotential outcome of various uncertain tax issues and the realizability of deferred tax assets; (ii) a high degree of auditorjudgment, subjectivity, and effort in performing procedures and evaluating evidence related to the potential outcome of
uncertain tax issues and the realizability of deferred tax assets on a jurisdictional basis; and (iii) the audit effort involved
the use of professionals with specialized skill and knowledge.
Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our
overall opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of controlsrelating to accounting for income taxes, including controls over the identification and recognition of uncertain tax issues
and the realizability of deferred tax assets on a jurisdictional basis. These procedures also included, among others, (i)
testing the income tax provision and the rate reconciliation and (ii) evaluating management’s process for assessing thepotential outcome of uncertain tax issues and the future realizability of deferred tax assets. Evaluating management’sprocess for assessing the potential outcome of certain uncertain tax issues included evaluating management’sassessment of existing laws and regulations and practices of governmental authorities exercising jurisdiction over the
Company’s operations. Evaluating management’s process for assessing the future realizability of certain deferred tax
assets on a jurisdictional basis included evaluating estimates of future taxable income, evaluating management’s
58 2021 Annual Report |Avery Dennison Corporationapplication of income tax law, and testing the completeness and accuracy of underlying data used in management’s
assessment. Evaluating management’s estimates of future taxable income involved evaluating whether the estimatesused by management were reasonable considering the current and past performance of the Company on a jurisdictionalbasis and whether the estimates were consistent with evidence obtained in other areas of the audit. Professionals withspecialized skill and knowledge were used to assist in evaluating the reasonableness of management’s assessment of thepotential outcome of uncertain tax issues and the future realizability of deferred tax assets, including the application ofrelevant foreign and domestic income tax laws and regulations, the provision for income taxes and the reasonableness ofmanagement’s assessment of whether it is more-likely-than-not that certain tax positions will be sustained.
Acquisition of CB Velocity Holdings, LLC (“Vestcom”)
As described in Notes 2 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements, on August 31, 2021, the Company
completed the acquisition of CB Velocity Holdings, LLC (“Vestcom”), a provider of shelf-edge pricing, productivity andconsumer engagement solutions for retailers and consumer packaged goods companies. The Company acquired Vestcom
for a purchase price of $1.47 billion. In connection with its acquisition of Vestcom, the Company acquired approximately
$727 million of identifiable intangible assets consisting of customer relationships, trade names and trademarks, andpatented and other developed technology. Management utilized the income approach to estimate the fair values ofacquired identifiable intangibles, primarily using Level 3 inputs. Management applied significant judgment in determiningthe fair value of intangible assets, which involved the use of estimates and assumptions with respect to estimated future
revenue and related profit margins, customer retention rates, technology migration curves, royalty rates, discount rates,
and economic lives assigned to the acquired intangible assets.
The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures relating to the acquisition of CB
Velocity Holdings, LLC (“Vestcom”) is a critical audit matter are (i) a high degree of auditor judgment and subjectivity inperforming procedures relating to the fair value of intangible assets acquired due to the significant judgment bymanagement when developing the estimates; (ii) the significant audit effort in evaluating the significant assumptions
related to profit margins and discount rates; and (iii) the audit effort involved the use of professionals with specialized skill
and knowledge.
Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our
overall opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of controlsrelating to the acquisition accounting, including controls over management’s valuation of the intangible assets andcontrols over the development of significant assumptions related to profit margins and discount rates. These proceduresalso included, among others (i) reading the purchase agreement and (ii) testing management’s process for estimating the
fair value of intangible assets. Testing management’s process included evaluating the appropriateness of the valuation
methods, testing the completeness and accuracy of data provided by management, and evaluating the reasonableness ofsignificant assumptions related to profit margins and discount rates. Evaluating the reasonableness of the profit marginsinvolved considering economic and industry factors and the past performance of the acquired business. The discount
rates were evaluated by considering the cost of capital of comparable businesses and other industry factors.
Professionals with specialized skill and knowledge were used to assist in the evaluation of management’s valuationmethods and the discount rate assumptions.
Los Angeles, CaliforniaFebruary 23, 2022
We have served as the Company’s auditor since at least 1960, which were the Company’s first financial statements
subject to SEC reporting requirements. We have not been able to determine the specific year we began serving as auditor
of the Company or a predecessor company.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2021 Annual Report 59Other Information
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
601 South Figueroa Street, Suite 900Los Angeles, California 90017
(213) 356-6000
Registrar and Transfer Agent
Broadridge Corporate Issuer Solutions, Inc.
P.O. Box 1342Brentwood, New York 11717
(888) 682-5999
(720) 864-4993 (international)(855) 627-5080 (hearing impaired)https://investor.broadridge.com
Annual Meeting
Our Annual Meeting of Stockholders will be held
virtually, with attendance via the internet at 1:30 p.m.Eastern Time on April 28, 2022. For more information on
attending and asking questions during the virtual meeting,
please refer to our 2022 Proxy Statement.
The Direct Share Purchase and Sale Program
Shareholders of record may reinvest their cash
dividends in additional shares of our common stock atmarket price. Investors may also invest optional cash
payments of up to $12,500 per month in our common
stock at market price. Investors not yet participating in theprogram, as well as brokers and custodians who hold ourcommon stock on behalf of clients, may obtain a copy ofthe program by contacting Broadridge Corporate Issuer
Solutions, Inc.
Direct Deposit of Dividends
Shareholders may receive their quarterly dividend
payments by direct deposit into their checking or savingsaccounts. For more information, contact Broadridge
Corporate Issuer Solutions, Inc.Certification Information
We are including, as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 to our
Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2021 filedwith the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”),
certificates of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We submitted to the New York StockExchange (“NYSE”) an unqualified annual writtenaffirmation, along with the Chief Executive Officer’scertificate that he is not aware of any violation by the
Company of NYSE’s corporate governance listing
standards, on April 28, 2021.
Annual Report on Form 10-K Requests
A copy of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed
with the SEC, will be furnished to shareholders andinterested investors free of charge upon written request to
our Corporate Secretary. Copies are also available on our
investor website at www.investors.averydennison.com.
Corporate Headquarters
Avery Dennison Corporation8080 Norton ParkwayMentor, Ohio 44060
Phone: (440) 534-6000
Stock and Dividend Data
Our common stock is listed on the NYSE.
Ticker symbol: AVY
2021 2020
Dividends per Common Share
First Quarter $ .62 $ .58Second Quarter .68 .58Third Quarter .68 .58Fourth Quarter .68 .62
$ 2.66 $ 2.36
Number of shareholders of record as of fiscal
year-end 3,952 4,195
60 2021 Annual Report |Avery Dennison CorporationSection III
2022
Notice and  
Proxy Statement
Aver y Dennison Corporation  |  2022  Prox y Statemen t   SECTIO N III[THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]NOTICE OF ANNUAL
MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS
RECORD DATE February 28, 2022
MEETING DATE April 28, 2022
MEETING TIME 1:30 p.m. Eastern Time
MEETING FORMAT Virtual, at www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/AVY2022
MEETING AGENDA
1Elect the 8 directors nominated by our Board to serve a one-year term
2Approve, on an advisory basis, our executive compensation
3Ratify the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as our independent
registered public accounting firm for fiscal year 2022
4Transact any other business properly brought before the meeting or any adjournmentor postponement thereof
Our Board recommends that you vote FOR each of our 8 director nominees inItem 1 and FOR Items 2 and 3.
Stockholders of record as of February 28, 2022 are entitled to notice of, and to vote in
connection with, the meeting and any adjournment or postponement thereof. Thisnotice and our proxy materials are being mailed or made available to stockholders onor about March 15, 2022.
We want your shares to be represented and voted . We encourage you to vote
promptly as this will save us the time and expense of additional proxy solicitation. Asshown on the right, you can vote online, by telephone, by mail or, in certain
circumstances, during the meeting.
On behalf of our Board of Directors, management and team members worldwide,
thank you for your investment in us and our company. We look forward to engaging
with you during the virtual Annual Meeting.
Vikas Arora
Vice President, Associate General Counsel andCorporate Secretary
March 10, 202227FEB202014052926
Online
You can vote online at
www.proxyvote.com by 11:59 p.m.Eastern Time on April 27, 2022.You will need the 16-digit controlnumber on your Notice of InternetAvailability or proxy card.
By Telephone
In the U.S. and Canada, you canvote by calling 1.800.690.6903by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time onApril 27, 2022. You will need the16-digit control number on yourNotice of Internet Availability orproxy card.
By Mail
You can vote by mail bycompleting, dating and signingyour proxy card and returning itin the postage-paid envelope orotherwise to Vote Processing, c/oBroadridge, 51 Mercedes Way,Edgewood, New York 11717.
During Meeting
Unless your shares are heldthrough our Employee SavingsPlan, you can vote during theAnnual Meeting. Beneficialholders must contact their brokeror other nominee to be able tovote during the meeting.TABLE OF CONTENTS
PROXY SUMMARY 1
GOVERNANCE 19
Values and Ethics 19
Complaint Procedures for Accounting and Auditing Matters 21Stock Ownership Policy 21Insider Trading Policy 22
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY 23
Engaging Our Stakeholders 23
Progress Toward Achieving Our 2025 and 2030 Goals 24Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DE+I) 25Other Talent Management Matters 25Community Investment 26
OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS 28
Overview 28
Governance Guidelines 29Director Independence 29Board Leadership Structure 30Board Committees 31Executive Sessions 33Risk Oversight 33Director Education 36Board and Committee Evaluations 37Stockholder Engagement 38Contacting Our Board 38
ITEM 1 – ELECTION OF DIRECTORS 39
Selection of Director Nominees 39
Board Refreshment and Director Succession Planning 40Director Diversity 412022 Director Nominees 42Director Compensation 46Director Compensation Table 48
ITEM 2 – ADVISORY VOTE TO APPROVE EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION 49
TALENT AND COMPENSATION COMMITTEE REPORT 50COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (CD&A) 51
Executive Summary 51
Summary of Compensation Decisions for 2021 61Discussion of Compensation Components and Decisions
Impacting 2021 Executive Compensation 63
Compensation-Setting Tools 75Independent Oversight and Expertise 75Other Considerations 77
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION TABLES 78
2021 Summary Compensation Table 78
2021 Grants of Plan-Based Awards 792021 Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End 802021 Option Exercises and Stock Vested 812021 Pension Benefits 822021 Nonqualified Deferred Compensation 83Payments Upon Termination as of January 1, 2022 84Equity Compensation Plan Information as of January 1, 2022 86
CEO PAY RATIO 87
ITEM 3 – RATIFICATION OF APPOINTMENT OF
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM89
AUDIT MATTERS 90
AUDIT AND FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT 93SECURITY OWNERSHIP INFORMATION 95
Security Ownership of Management and Significant Stockholders 95
Related Person Transactions 96
VOTING AND MEETING Q&A 97
RECONCILIATION OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
FROM GAAP102
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement |Table of ContentsPROXY SUMMARY
This proxy summary includes key messages related to this proxy statement and does not contain all the information
you should consider before voting. We strongly encourage you to read the entire proxy statement before voting.
DISTRIBUTION OF PROXY MATERIALS
We will mail our Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials, which includes instructions on how to access these
materials online, on or about March 15, 2022. If you previously elected to receive a paper copy of our proxy materials, onor about the same date, we will mail you our 2021 integrated report, which includes a letter to stockholders from our
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO); our 2021 annual report; our notice and proxy statement for the 2022 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders (the “Annual Meeting”); information regarding our businesses, financial performance andstrategic achievements, including our continued progress as it relates to environmental, social and governance (ESG)matters; and a proxy card.
TIME, DATE AND FORMAT OF ANNUAL MEETING
The Annual Meeting will take place at 1:30 p.m. Eastern Time on April 28, 2022. Due to continued public health
concerns about large, indoor in-person gatherings given the coronavirus/COVID-19 pandemic (“COVID-19”), the meetingwill be held virtually, with attendance via the internet. To attend the virtual Annual Meeting, you will need to log in to
www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/AVY2022 using the 16-digit control number on your Notice of Internet Availability
of Proxy Materials or proxy card.
Online access to the live audio webcast of the Annual Meeting will open at 1:15 p.m. Eastern Time to allow time for
you to log in and test your device’s audio system. We encourage you to access the meeting in advance of its designatedstart time as we plan to begin conducting the meeting promptly. For additional instructions on how to attend the virtualAnnual Meeting, please refer to the Voting and Meeting Q&A section of this proxy statement.
ITEMS BEING VOTED ON DURING ANNUAL MEETING
You are being asked to vote on the items of business shown below during the Annual Meeting. Our Board of
Directors (our “Board”) recommends that you vote FOR each of our 8 director nominees and FOR the other 2 items beingbrought before the stockholder vote.
ItemBoard
RecommendationVote
RequiredDiscretionary
Broker VotingPage
Reference
1Election of directorsFOR
each nomineeMajority of votes cast No 39
2Advisory vote to approve executive
compensation FORMajority of shares
represented and entitled
to voteNo 49
3Ratification of appointment of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP asindependent registered publicaccounting firm for FY 2022FORMajority of shares
represented and entitled
to voteYes 89
VOTING PRIOR TO OR DURING ANNUAL MEETING
You may vote your shares by submitting a proxy in advance of the Annual Meeting or, in certain circumstances, voting
during the meeting. You may not vote during the meeting if your shares are held through our Employee Savings Plan.Beneficial holders may only vote during the meeting if they properly request and receive a legal proxy in their name from
the broker, bank or other nominee that holds their shares. Whether or not you plan to attend the virtual Annual Meeting,
we urge you to vote and submit your proxy in advance of the meeting by following the instructions contained in theVoting and Meeting Q&A section of this proxy statement.
ASKING QUESTIONS DURING ANNUAL MEETING
We have designed the virtual Annual Meeting to ensure that you have the same rights and opportunities to
participate as you would at an in-person meeting, using easy-to-use online tools that allow you to attend, vote andask questions . After the business portion of the Annual Meeting concludes and the meeting is adjourned, our
Chairman/CEO will lead a Q&A session during which we intend to answer all questions submitted on the day of or during
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 1the meeting that are pertinent to our company and the items being brought before stockholder vote. Answers to
questions not addressed during the meeting, if any, will be posted promptly after the meeting on the investors section ofour website. For information on how to submit questions during the Annual Meeting, please refer to the Voting and
Meeting Q&A section of this proxy statement.
OUR COMPANY
We are a global materials science company specializing in the design and manufacture of a wide variety of labeling
and functional materials. Our products and solutions, which are used in nearly every major industry, include pressure-sensitive materials for labels and graphic applications; tapes and other bonding solutions for industrial, medical and retail
applications; tags, labels and embellishments for apparel; and radio-frequency identification (RFID) solutions serving
apparel and other markets. We have approximately 36,000 employees in more than 50 countries.
Our company is comprised of the following businesses: Label and Graphic Materials (LGM), Retail Branding and
Information Solutions (RBIS) and Industrial and Healthcare Materials (IHM).
STRATEGY OVERVIEW
We are committed to ensuring the continuing success of all our stakeholders – our employees, customers, investors
and communities. In 2021, we continued to invest in the long-term success of our company and advance our ESG
priorities. To mitigate the challenges presented by the continued impact of COVID-19, we focused on ensuring the
safety and well-being of our employees; managing a dynamic supply/demand environment and supply chain
pressures to deliver for our customers; minimizing the impact of pandemic-related effects for our stockholders; andsupporting our communities . Our key strategies and 2021 achievements are shown below and on the following page.
Our overriding focus remains the long-term success of all of our stakeholders, and we have a clear set of objectives andstrategies to deliver for them.
1
Drive outsized growth in high-value categories
• We seek to increase the proportion of our portfolio in high-value products and solutions, both organically and through
acquisitions; high-value categories serve markets that are growing faster than GDP, represent large pools of potentialprofit and leverage our core capabilities. These products and solutions include our specialty and durable label
materials, graphics and reflective solutions, industrial tapes, Intelligent Labels that use RFID tags and inlays, external
embellishments, and, with our recent acquisition of CB Velocity Holdings, LLC (“Vestcom”), shelf-edge pricing,productivity and consumer engagement solutions.
• In 2021, we achieved organic sales change in high-value product categories that outpaced that of our base
businesses by a high-single digit rate driven by growth in specialty labels, external embellishments and IntelligentLabels; added to our capabilities and expanded our position in high-value product categories through our acquisition
of Vestcom; and more than tripled the size of our Intelligent Labels platform over the last five years, reaching net sales
of $0.7 billion in 2021
2
Grow profitability in our base businesses
• We strive to grow profitability in our base businesses by carefully balancing volume, price and mix, reducing
complexity and tailoring our go-to-market strategies
• In 2021, we heightened our focus on material reengineering to drive productivity and mitigate the impact of rising
input costs
3
Focus relentlessly on productivity
• We employ product reengineering and enterprise lean sigma to expand our margins, enhance our competitiveness
(particularly in our base businesses) and provide a funding source for reinvestment
• In 2021, we continued expanding operating margins, with approximately $65 million in savings from restructuring, net
of transition costs
22022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison Corporation4
Allocate capital effectively
• We balance our investments in organic growth, productivity, and acquisitions and venture investments, while
continuing to return cash to stockholders through dividends and share repurchases
• In 2021, leveraging our strong balance sheet, we invested $272.1 million in fixed and information technology (IT)
capital expenditures to support organic growth; completed three acquisitions and made three venture investments for
a total of $1.48 billion; increased our quarterly dividend rate by ~10%; and repurchased $180.9 million in shares of our
common stock
5
Lead in an environmentally and socially responsible manner
• We aim to deliver innovations that advance the circular economy and reduce the environmental impact of our
operations; build a more diverse workforce and inclusive and equitable culture; maintain operations that promotehealth and safety; and support our communities through contributions from the Avery Dennison Foundation (ADF),
supplemented by contributions from our company
• In 2021, we continued to make progress toward our 2025 sustainability goals, reducing the environmental impact of
our operations and investing in strategic innovation platforms focused on material circularity and waste reduction/elimination; driving sustainable change in diversity, equity and inclusion (DE+I), with a sharpened focus on increasingworkforce racial/ethnic diversity, as well as representation from other underrepresented communities such asLGBTQ+, veteran or disabled individuals; and using the $10 million we contributed to ADF in 2020 to significantly
increase grant-making in our communities, resulting in over $6 million of charitable contributions from ADF and our
company in 2021. We also announced more ambitious 2030 sustainability goals.
PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS
COVID-19 Response
Our top priority in 2021 as the COVID-19 pandemic continued to evolve and impact our global teams was to
safeguard the safety and well-being of our employees by continually adapting our world-class safety protocols. Wealso were highly focused on delivering for our customers, leveraging our global scale to manage elevated lead times
caused by constrained raw material, freight and labor availability and persistent inflation. To minimize the effects of
the pandemic on our investors, we maintained a strong balance sheet to ensure financial flexibility. We also more thandoubled our financial support for communities in 2021 compared to the prior year.
Strong 2021 Performance
In 2021, by consistently executing our strategies, we delivered our tenth consecutive year of strong top- and bottom-
line growth, expanded operating margins and achieved record free cash flow, despite the continued impact of COVID-19and related supply chain, labor, freight and inflationary challenges. These results reflected the extraordinary effortsundertaken by our leaders and teams globally to respond to the difficult macroeconomic environment and mitigate its
impacts on our company. Our performance reflects our rigorous scenario planning, which has enabled us to be prepared
for a wide range of financial situations. We advanced our key strategies and delivered strong performance, whilecontinuing to deliver for all of our stakeholders.
Our fiscal year 2021 performance reflects the strength of our markets, our industry-leading positions, the strategic
foundations we have laid and our talented team. Our key financial achievements for the year are described below and onthe following page.
•Reported net sales of $8.41 billion , up ~21%, reflecting volume growth across our businesses and recovery
from the prior-year impact of COVID-19
• Excluding the impact of currency, sales increased ~19%; sales on an organic basis increased by ~16% driven by
continued strong demand for consumer packaged goods and the accelerated shift to e-commerce in LGM, as
well as significant organic growth in Intelligent Labels
•Reported earnings per share (EPS) increased ~34% from $6.61 in 2020 to $8.83 in 2021 , in part due to the
prior-year impact of COVID-19
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 3• Adjusted EPS increased ~25% from $7.10 to $8.91, driven by strong growth and operating margin expansion;
adjusted EPS for the year was substantially higher than the top end of the $7.65 to $8.05 annual guidance rangewe provided to investors in February 2021
• With reported net cash provided by operating activities of $1,046.8 million , delivered record free cash flow of
$797.7 million, $250+ million higher than 2020 and substantially exceeding our initial 2021 outlook of $600+
million
•O n reported net income of $740.1 million , achieved return on total capital (ROTC) including acquisition
amortization of ~18% and ROTC excluding acquisition amortization of ~19%
Sales change excluding the impact of currency (sales change ex. currency), organic sales change, adjusted EPS, free
cash flow and ROTC both including and excluding acquisition amortization – as well as adjusted EBITDA margin, which is
used later in this proxy summary – are supplemental non-GAAP financial measures that we provide to assist investors in
assessing our performance and operating trends. These measures are defined, qualified and reconciled from generallyaccepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP) in the last section of this proxy statement. Thesenon-GAAP financial measures are not a substitute for or superior to the comparable financial measures under GAAP.
2019 2020 2021Reported Sales Change
Sales Change Ex. Currency
(1.2)%2.0%
(1.4)% (1.7)%20.6%
18.6%Reported EPS
Adjusted EPS
$6.61$8.83
$6.60$7.10$8.91
2019 2020 2021$3.57Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities
Free Cash Flow
(In millions)
2019 2020 2021$746.5 $751.3$1,046.8
$512.3$547.5$797.7
Delivering Financial Targets
Our objective is to deliver GDP+ growth and top-quartile returns on capital to create superior value over the long
term. In March 2017, we announced five-year financial targets through 2021. As shown below, we exceeded each of
these commitments we made to our investors.
This is the third set of long-term financial targets we have delivered . Our consistently strong performance reflects
the strength of our industry-leading market positions, the strategic foundations we have laid, and our agile and talentedworkforce. Given the diversity of our end markets, strong competitive advantages and resilience as an organization, we
are confident in our ability to continue delivering for you through a wide range of business cycles.
For the 2017-2021 period, on a five-year compound annual basis (with 2016 as the base period), GAAP reported
net sales, net income and EPS increased by 6.7%, 18.2% and 20.1%, respectively.
2017-2021 Targets 2017-2021 Results(1)
Sales Growth(2)5%+ ex. currency(3)
4%+ organic6.6% ex. currency
4.6% organic
GAAP Operating Margin 11%+ in 2021 12.6% in 2021
Adjusted EPS Growth(2) 10%+ 17.3%
ROTC incl. Acquisition Amortization 17%+ in 2021 18.4% in 2021
EXCEEDED 2017-2021 FINANCIAL TARGETS
(1) Results for non-GAAP measures are reconciled from GAAP in the last section of this proxy statement.
(2) Percentages for targets and results reflect five-year compound annual growth rates, with 2016 as the
base period.
(3) Target for sales growth ex. currency reflects the impact of completed acquisitions as of March 2017 ofapproximately one point.
42022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationIn March 2021, we announced five-year financial targets through 2025. As shown below, based on the first year of
this five-year period, we are on track to achieve these commitments.
In 2021 (with 2020 as the base period), GAAP reported net sales, net income and EPS increased by 20.6%,
33.1% and 33.6%, respectively.
2021-2025 Targets 2021 Results(1)
Sales Growth(2)5%+ ex. currency(3)18.6% ex. currency
15.6% organic
Adjusted EBITDA Margin 16%+ in 2025 15.6% in 2021
Adjusted EPS Growth(2) 10% 25%
ROTC excl. Acquisition Amortization 18%+ in 2025 19.1% in 2021
ON TRACK TO ACHIEVE 2021-2025 FINANCIAL TARGETS
(1) Results for non-GAAP measures are reconciled from GAAP in the last section of this proxy statement.
(2) Percentages for targets reflect five-year compound annual growth rates, with 2020 as the base period.
Percentages for results reflect one-year annual growth rates, with 2020 as the base period.
(3) Target for sales growth ex. currency reflects the impact of completed acquisitions as of March 10, 2021,which represents (0.2)%.
Effective Capital Allocation
We have been consistently disciplined in executing our capital allocation strategy, balancing our investments in
organic growth, productivity, and acquisitions and venture investments with continuing to return cash to stockholders
through dividends and share repurchases. In 2021, we invested $272.1 million in fixed and IT capital expenditures to
support future growth and further productivity improvement and allocated $1.48 billion to acquisitions and ventureinvestments; we also paid $220.6 million in dividends and repurchased $180.9 million in shares of our common stock .
We have invested in our businesses to support organic growth and pursued complementary and synergistic
acquisitions. Our fixed and IT capital spending in 2021 was nearly 25% higher than in 2020, reflecting our continued
investment in high-value categories, including our fast-growing Intelligent Labels platform, and lower-than-plannedcapital expenditures in 2020 to mitigate the impact of COVID-19. During the year, we acquired Vestcom, an Arkansas-based provider of shelf-edge pricing, productivity and consumer engagement solutions for retailers and consumerpackaged goods companies, for $1.47 billion, as well as ZippyYum, LLC (“ZippyYum”), a California-based developer of
software products used in the food service and food preparation industries, and JDC Solutions, Inc. (“JDC”), a Tennessee-
based manufacturer of pressure-sensitive specialty tapes, collectively for approximately $43 million. During 2021, wealso made three venture investments in companies developing innovative technological solutions that we believe havethe potential to advance our businesses.
In 2021, we deployed $401.5 million to pay dividends of $2.66 per share and repurchase 0.9 million shares of our
common stock. We raised our quarterly dividend rate by approximately 10% in April 2021 .
As shown below, over the last five years, we have allocated over $2 billion to acquisitions and venture
investments and nearly $2 billion to dividends and share repurchases .
*  Amounts for acquisitions include venture investments.  $155.5 $175.0 $196.8 $220.6$129.7$392.9
$189.7$6.5 $350.4
$180.9$319.3$3.8
$237.7 $104.3$1,477.6
$0$400$1,200
$800$2,000
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021($ millions)Capital Allocated to Dividends,
Share Repurchases and Acquisitions*
Dividends Share Repurchases Acquisitions
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 5Total Stockholder Return (TSR) Outperformance
By generating substantial economic value added (EVA), we drove strong TSR in 2021 despite the continued
uncertain macroeconomic environment as a result of COVID-19 and related supply chain, labor, freight and inflationarychallenges. Our TSR of over 40% outperformed the S&P 500 and the median of the S&P 500 Industrials and Materialssubsets, two comparator groups we use to assess our relative performance. We believe that our longer-term TSR is amore meaningful measure of our performance than our one-year TSR, which can be significantly impacted by short-termmarket volatility that may be unrelated to our performance. Both our three-year and five-year TSR substantiallyoutperformed these two comparator groups. We focus on TSR because it measures the value we create for ourstockholders, including stock price appreciation and dividends paid (assuming reinvestment of dividends). We compareourselves to the median of the S&P 500 Industrials and Materials subsets because we are a member of the Materialssubset, and also share many characteristics with members of the Industrials subset; investors have indicated that theyalso look at both subsets in evaluating our performance relative to that of our peers.
5-Year Cumulative TSR
237%
133%
122%
0%40%80%120%160%200%240%
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021AVY S&P 500 S&P 500 Indus. & Mats. (median)1-, 3- and 5-YEAR TSR
AVY S&P 500 S&P Indus. & Mats.*
2017 67% 22% 28%
2018 (20)% (4)% (14)%
2019 49% 32% 34%
2020 21% 18% 17%2021 41% 29% 24%
3-Year TSR 154% 100% 94%
5-Year TSR 237% 133% 122%
* Based on median of companies in both subsets as of December 31, 2021
ESG GOVERNANCE
We have been consistently focused on advancing our ESG profile, establishing our priorities, setting ambitious goals
and making consistent progress toward their achievement. Our sustained progress reflects the commitment and passionof our management and employees, as well as the robust engagement and oversight of our Board. Our ESG governance
structure is shown on the following page.
62022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationESG GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE
Sustainability Council
Business and Functional
Sustainability TeamsGlobal Environmental
Sustainability Lead
Global and Regional
DE+I Councils
Business and
Functional
DE+I TeamsGlobal DE+I &
Community Lead
ESG Program
Management Ofﬁce
Enterprise Material
Data OwnersGovernance CommitteeBoard
Oversight
Quarterly Governance and
Performance Monitoring
ESG Accountability and
Functional Support
Strategy, Priority and
Policy Development
Management of Sustainability
Goal Progress; Business
Team ExecutionTalent and Compensation
Committee
Company Leadership TeamBoard of Directors
We believe that strong data governance ensures consistency and accuracy of information in support of our ESG
priorities and enhances transparency to our stakeholders. Our ESG data is organized and indexed to the Global ReportingInitiative (GRI) and Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) frameworks to facilitate stakeholder usage and
comparability with other companies. We have also responded to Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Climate, Water and
Forests since 2010, 2015 and 2016, respectively. The volume of ESG information we disclose has significantly increasedin recent years and our scores from ESG rating agencies have continued to improve.
During 2021, we evolved our ESG data governance program by establishing an ESG Program Management Office to
assess our reporting in accordance with frameworks such as the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures(TCFD); engage with targeted ESG rating agencies; manage our data collection and reporting processes; create
assurance guidance and controls, and provide reports, data and information for publication. In addition, we engaged an
independent third party to review our energy and GHG emissions data ; requested our Internal Audit team to perform
walkthroughs of key metrics and provide ongoing advisory engagement; and formalized our processes for data owner
sign-off, ESG Disclosure Committee review and senior management approval .
Our March 2022 ESG Download, published concurrently with this proxy statement on our ESG website at
esg.averydennison.com, reflects the organizational focus we have on these matters. It includes 120 categories covering
our policies, goals, strategies, risks, outcomes/metrics and certifications. This information comes from multiple dataowners and sources, including our enterprise-wide Sustainability Council, the sustainability teams in our businesses, andrepresentatives from corporate and business functions such as EHS, Operations/Supply Chain, Procurement, HR and
Law. The ESG Download and other information on our website are not and should not be considered part of, nor are they
incorporated by reference into, this proxy statement.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 7ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY
Sustainability is one of our core values and has long been integral to our way of doing business. To create value for all
our stakeholders, we aim to advance our strategic innovation platforms on material circularity and waste reduction/elimination, build a more diverse workforce and inclusive and equitable culture, maintain operations that promote healthand safety, and support our communities. Integrating sustainability into our business strategies has helped us deliversustained strong financial performance and engage employees at all levels.
In the first six years of the 10-year horizon for our 2025 sustainability goals, we have made substantial progress, as
shown in the scorecard below. You can find additional information on our ESG progress in our 2021 integrated
sustainability and annual report, as well as on our ESG website at esg.averydennison.com. The 2021 integrated
sustainability and annual report and other information on our website are not and should not be considered part of, norare they incorporated by reference into, this proxy statement.
2021 SCORECARD OF PROGRESS TOWARD 2025 SUSTAINABILITY GOALS
Focus Area Goal(s) Baseline Year Highlights of Progress
Greenhouse
Gas Emissions
Achieve at least 3% absolute reduction year-over-year and at least 26% overall reduction by 20252015Reduced absolute GHG emissions by ~7% in 12
months through Q3 2021 compared to same period
in prior year; reduced GHG emissions by ~48%
compared to baseline year
Paper
Source 100% certified paper, of which at least 70%
is Forest Stewardship Council®-certified2015Of total volume of paper procured in 2021, ~91%
was certified, with ~81% of face stock Forest
Stewardship Council®-certified
Films
Ensure that 70% of films we buy conform to, or
enable end products to conform to, our
environmental and social guiding principlesN/A~97% of 2021 film volume conformed to LGM’s
restricted substance list (RSL)
Chemicals
Ensure that 70% of chemicals we buy conform to,
or enable end products to conform to, our
environmental and social guiding principlesN/A~96% of 2021 chemical volume conformed to
LGM’s RSL
Products and
SolutionsThrough innovation, deliver above-average growthin sales from sustainability-driven products and
services
Ensure that 70% of our products and solutions
conform to, or enable end products to conform to,our environmental and social guiding principles2015~55% and ~50% of RBIS Apparel and LGM sales,
respectively, in 2021 came from sustainability-
driven products that are responsibly sourced,
enable recyclability, contain recycled content or useless material, without compromising performance
Waste
Be 95% landfill-free, with at least 75% of our
waste reused, repurposed or recycled
Eliminate 70% of the matrix and liner waste from
our value chain2015Diverted ~94% of solid waste from landfills and
recycled ~67% of waste as of Q3 2021, our most
recently available data
PeopleContinue to cultivate diverse (40%+ female at level
of manager and above), engaged, safe (recordable
incident rate (RIR) of <0.25), productive and healthy
workforce
Continue to invest in our employees and the
communities in which they live and work2015Increased female representation at level of manager
and above by ~3% from baseline year, reaching
35% at YE 2021
Continued world-class safety record, with 2021
RIR of 0.21, substantially better than manufacturingindustry average of 3.1 in 2020 (most recently
available data)
Transparency
Commit to goals publicly and be transparent in
reporting progressN/AContinued to enhance transparency by providing
more frequent and comprehensive ESG disclosures,including by launching ESG website and making
new commitments to external standards (e.g.,
Science Based Targets initiative) in 2021
82022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationAfter updating our materiality assessment in 2020 to better understand the environmental and social sustainability
challenges facing our company and our stakeholders, we reframed our eight 2025 goals into three broader goals that weare aiming to achieve by 2030. Within each of these goals, we have specific targets related to environmental and socialsustainability. We show our progress against the targets shown below in our 2021 integrated annual and sustainabilityreport.
2030 SUSTAINABILITY GOALS AND TARGETS
GOALS TARGETS
Deliver innovations thatadvance the circular economySatisfy the recycling, composting or reuse requirements of all single-use
consumer packaging and apparel with our products and solutions
RBIS: 100% within our core product categories (printed fabric labels,
woven labels, paper, interior heat-transfer labels, packaging and RFID)will meet our third-party verified Sustainable ADvantage Standard
LGM: 100% of our standard label products will contain recycled or
renewable content; all of our regions will have labels that enable
circularity of plastics
Reduce the environmental impact in our
operations and supply chainReduced our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 70% from our 2015
baseline. Work with our supply chain to reduce our 2018 baseline Scope3 GHG emissions by 30%, with an ambition of net zero by 2050
Source 100% of paper fiber from certified sources focused on a
deforestation-free future
Divert 95% of our waste away from landfills, with a minimum of 80% of
our waste recycled and the remainder either reused, composted or sent
to energy recovery
Deliver a 15% increase in water efficiency at our sites that are located in
high or extremely high risk countries as identified in the World
Resources Institute Aqueduct Tool
Make a positive social impact by enhancingthe livelihood of our people and communitiesFoster an engaged team and an inclusive workplace.
• Inclusion Index: 85%
• Employee Engagement: 82%• Females in manager level or above positions: 40%• Safety: 0.2 RIR
Support the participation of employees in Avery Dennison Foundation
grants and foster the well-being of the communities in which we and oursupply chain operate.
DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION (DE+I)
Diversity is one of our core values, reflecting our commitment to ensuring an inclusive and equitable environment
for people of all backgrounds and orientations and our belief that we gain strength from diverse ideas and teams .W e
are holding ourselves accountable for DE+I progress, with quantitative targets for employee engagement, inclusion and
workforce gender diversity in our 2030 sustainability goals. Over the past several years, we have made consistent
progress in our DE+I journey, as shown on the following page. Our 2021 EEO-1 statistics , which we collect as required
by the U.S. Equal Opportunity Commission and reflect the voluntary self-identification by our U.S. employees, can be
found in our March 2022 ESG Download.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 9HIGHLIGHTS OF DE+I JOURNEY
2015• Established 2025 goal of 40%+ female at manager level and above
• Employees established Northeast Ohio Chinese Employee Resource Group (ERG)
2016• Launched unconscious bias training for managers globally• Released DE+I Talkabout Toolkit• Initiated Women.Empowered development program• Expanded flexible work arrangements• Added inclusion index to employee engagement survey
2017• Employees established Elevate, women’s ERG• Began requiring gender diverse hiring slate goals globally• Joined CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion• Formally added Diversity as one of our company values
2018• Established Regional DE+I Councils• Employees established BERG, our Black ERG• Launched Men as Allies program• Reviewed director+ level gender pay equity, making adjustments where appropriate
2019• Employees established Veterans ERG and UNITE, our LGBTQ+ ERG• Launched North America iBelong employee engagement campaign• Expanded gender pay equity review, making adjustments where appropriate
2020• Employees established Voz Latina ERG• Launched regional DE+I town halls• Began enhancing DE+I transparency with increased ESG reporting• Started to recruit for enterprise-wide DE+I leader• Continued expanding gender pay equity review and began evaluating U.S. racial/ethnic
pay equity, making adjustments where appropriate
2021• Engaged third party expert to assess our baseline and help us establish our global DE+I
priorities
• Established DE+I infrastructure with global leader and dedicated regional resources• Developed global DE+I strategy with four pillars and supporting regional focus areas
• Increased DE+I transparency, including by publishing EEO-1 data and committing to
do so annually
• Further enhanced pay equity review by engaging third party expert to analyze racial/
ethnic equity
• Invested to further develop ERG leaders• Employees established ERGs focused on mental awareness, single parenting and
young employees
• Sponsored 50+ diverse leaders in externally-facilitated leadership academies
• Ensured more equitable benefits for LGBTQ+ employees and their families, resulting in
100% score on Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s 2022 Corporate Equality Index
10 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationSTOCKHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
In addition to our extensive investor relations program through which our CEO, Chief Financial Officer (CFO), business
leaders and Investor Relations team engage with our investors throughout the year, we have a longstanding practice ofsemiannual engagement with stockholders to further discuss and solicit their feedback on our strategies, performance,executive compensation and ESG matters.
Offer top 30 investors meeting
with independent members of
Board and/or management to
discuss items being brought
before stockholder vote ;
on day of annual meeting,
discuss preliminary vote results
with BoardSpring Engagement
Robust and
Ongoing
Stockholder
EngagementFall Engagement
Contact top 30 investors to
request meeting with members
of Board, generally our Lead
Independent Director,  to discuss
our strategies, performance,
executive compensation and
ESG matters
Board/Committee Discussions
Report on process, results and feedback from
engagement to senior management and Board;
consider whether changes to programs are
advisable and reﬂect feedback in next year’s
proxy materials   
Summary of 2021 Engagement Feedback
Our Board and management believe that regular stockholder engagement fosters a deeper understanding of our
investors’ evolving expectations on ESG matters and helps us ensure our programs continue to align with best practices.
The objectives of our stockholder engagement program are to maintain thoughtful dialogue and further strengthen
our relationships with our top investors; gather feedback on the prior proxy season and identify potentialimprovement opportunities based on evolving expectations; and discuss our company strategies, Board matters,executive compensation, and ESG progress.
In 2021, we contacted our top 30 investors in the spring and the fall. Board members, in particular our Lead
Independent Director, and management were made available to answer questions and address concerns. We engaged
with every stockholder who accepted our invitation to meet, and our Lead Independent Director led the majority ofour off-season engagements.
We discussed the process, results and feedback from our 2021 engagement with the Talent and Compensation
Committee (the “Compensation Committee”) and the Governance Committee of our Board, and also shared highlightswith the full Board to supplement the reports from those Committee Chairs.
A summary of the results from our 2021 stockholder engagement is shown on the following page.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 112021 ENGAGEMENT RESULTS
Outreach
~63%Responses
~50%Conversations
~33%
Governance Feedback
With respect to governance, our 2021 engagements focused primarily on the matters described below.
•Board oversight of ESG matters , including the allocation of responsibilities among Board Committees and our
full Board
•Board composition , with investors noting that the diversity of skills, qualifications and demographic backgrounds
on our Board was appropriate given our company’s strategies and ESG priorities
•Board refreshment , including actions underway to mitigate the risk from upcoming concentrated director
retirements and the skills and backgrounds we would seek in any new director to complement those of ourexisting directors
•Board leadership structure , including our rationale for maintaining a combined Chairman/CEO with a robust
Lead Independent Director role
•Director commitments, given the lower level of stockholder support at the 2021 Annual Meeting received by one
of our current directors whose board memberships do not comply with certain of our investors’ voting policies
• Our shareholder rights profile
Environmental Sustainability Feedback
Investors uniformly commended our significantly expanded ESG transparency with the disclosures contained in our
integrated annual and sustainability reports, proxy statements and ESG Downloads and on our ESG website atesg.averydennison.com. Environmental sustainability was a key area of focus for many of our investors in 2021. During
our conversations, we primarily discussed the matters described below.
• The strong linkage between ESG and our company strategies , as well as the ways in which our environmental
and social sustainability creates market opportunity and provides competitive advantage
•Our reframed sustainability framework, progress toward our 2025 goals and our new 2030 goals , reviewing
the step-change advancement between these sets of goals, including our more objective and ambitious 2030targets, including those related to Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions reduction and water to address evolvedstakeholder expectations
• Our launch of strategic innovation platforms focused on waste reduction/elimination and material circularity
• The approval by the Science Based Targets initiative of our 2030 Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions reduction
targets as consistent with reductions required to keep warming to no more than 1.5 degrees Celsius, and ourambition to achieve net zero GHG emissions by 2050
Executive Compensation Feedback
The stockholders with whom we spoke sought information regarding the consideration of ESG matters in our
executive compensation program, seeking to ensure that the Compensation Committee is discussing evolvingexpectations regarding ESG-executive compensation linkage . We discussed our current approach of establishing
performance objectives for our annual incentive program based on quantitative financial metrics, supplemented by a
qualitative individual assessment of executives that includes consideration of their ESG-related goals . We also
explained our Board’s view that our financial success in recent years has been inextricably linked to our ESG focus and
progress and that we have made substantial ESG progress as part of our commitment to deliver for all our stakeholders.
Investors noted the need to be thoughtful and objective if we were to add ESG performance objectives, cautioning
against setting targets without sufficient time and data to assess their appropriateness. To provide additional perspective
on the Compensation Committee’s views on the linkage between ESG and executive compensation, we have includedadditional disclosure in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis section of this proxy statement.
12 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationSocial Sustainability and Talent Management Feedback
Social sustainability and talent management continued to be significant areas of investor focus in 2021. In addition to
the general feedback on our ESG program noted above, discussions related to these topics included the following:
•Training and development opportunities we provide our employees with a view to ensuring an informed and
ethical workforce
• Our efforts to attract team members from underrepresented communities and ensure diverse hiring slates
• The programs we offer to make our company an attractive place to work
•Employee retention and attrition
DE+I continued to be a key topic of engagement. The matters described below were areas of DE+I focus.
• The ways in which DE+I aligns with our business strategies, allowing us to recruit and retain an engaged
workforce committed to advancing their success and ours
• Given our focus on building a more diverse workforce and inclusive and equitable culture , sharing our
quantitative achievements, as well as information related to our qualitative efforts to continuously improve
• The Compensation Committee’s discussion of our DE+I initiatives and progress at each of its regular meetings in
2021, with supplemental engagement on these matters by our full Board with our CEO, Chief Human ResourcesOfficer (CHRO), business leaders and DE+I leaders
•Our disclosure of EEO-1 data for the first time in 2021, with investors expressing their interest in learning more
about the demographics of our workforce, what drives employee engagement and how our company plans toensure the continued success of this key stakeholder group
We also candidly discussed our projected inability to achieve our goal of 40%+ women at the manager level and
above by 2025, including the challenges we experienced, our key learnings and the organizational enhancements we
have made in recent years to ensure we can deliver this renewed goal by 2030.
2022 DIRECTOR NOMINEES (ITEM 1)
Director’s Decision Not to Stand for Reelection
In February 2022, Director Mark Barrenechea notified our Board of Directors of his decision not to stand for reelection
at the 2022 Annual Meeting so that he can focus on other endeavors.
Matrix of Director Nominee Skills, Qualifications and Demographic Backgrounds
Our director nominees bring a balance of skills, qualifications and demographic backgrounds to their roles of
providing oversight of our company, as shown by individual in the matrix on the following page, which we have modifiedslightly from prior year to conform with the areas of industry expertise by which we now classify directors given our
evolved strategic profile. This matrix reflects information received from each of our directors in their responses to our
annual director questionnaire. At least annually, the Governance Committee evaluates and reports to our Board on the
skills, qualifications and demographic backgrounds desirable for our Board to best advance our business strategies andserve the interests of all our stakeholders.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 13BOARD MATRIX
B. ALFORD
 J. STEWART
 K. HICKS
 M. SULLIVAN
 P . SIEWERT
 A. LOPEZ
 A. ANDERSON
 M. BUTIER
Governance Guidelines Criteria
Independent ✓✓✓✓✓✓ ✓
Senior Leadership Experience(1) ✓✓✓✓✓✓✓
Industry Experience(2) ✓ ✓✓✓✓✓✓
Global Exposure(3) ✓✓✓✓✓✓✓✓
Board Experience(4) ✓✓✓✓✓✓ ✓
Financial Expertise(5) ✓✓ ✓
Industry Expertise
Software/Digital/Cybersecurity(6)
Retail/Dining ✓✓
Packaging ✓✓
Consumer Goods ✓✓ ✓
Industrial Goods ✓✓
Materials Science ✓
Demographic Background
Tenure (years) 5 9 12 19 14 9 5 16
Gender
Female ✓✓
Male ✓ ✓ ✓✓✓ ✓
Non-Binary Gender
Age 59 66 65 66 69 65 50 66
Mandatory Retirement Year 2035 2028 2029 2028 2025 2029 2044 2028
Race/Ethnicity
Black or African American ✓
Hispanic or Latino ✓
White ✓ ✓✓✓✓✓✓
Asian (including South Asian)Native Hawaiian or Pacific IslanderNative American or Alaska Native ✓
LGBTQ+Veteran ✓
Lives/Has Lived Abroad ✓✓ ✓ ✓
(1)Service as president, chief executive officer or in similar senior executive positions.
(2)Experience in the software/digital/cybersecurity, retail/dining, packaging, consumer goods, industrial goods or materials science industries .
(3)Seniority in a global enterprise or significant experience in international markets.
(4)Prior or concurrent service on other U.S. public company boards.
(5)Expertise in accounting, auditing, tax, banking, insurance or investments.
(6)Departing director Mark Barrenechea had this expertise, which is among the skills the Governance Committee and our Board will seek in new directors.
14 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationBoard Performance Highlights
Our Board provides strong oversight of our management team and company, with highlights of its notable
accomplishments in recent years described below.
• Supported management in navigating our evolving response to COVID-19, including related labor, freight and
inflationary challenges in 2021 by ensuring we protected employee safety and well-being, delivered for ourcustomers, mitigated supply chain risk, maintained a strong balance sheet to provide financial flexibility and
supported our communities, while continuing to invest in our company’s future growth and further productivity
• Oversaw consistent execution of our business strategies, which delivered significant operating margin expansion
and double-digit compound adjusted EPS growth and exceeded our 2017-2021 financial targets, as well as2017-2021 TSR of 237%, substantially outperforming the S&P 500 and the median of the S&P 500 Materialsand Industrials subsets
• Acquired 10 companies through year-end 2021 that added new capabilities and expanded our position in high-
value product categories that serve markets that are growing faster than GDP, represent large pools of potentialprofit and leverage our core capabilities
• Advanced Board and management focus on advancing ESG priorities, with consistent progress toward achieving
our 2025 sustainability goals, more ambitious 2030 goals and increased transparency with more frequent andcomprehensive disclosures, resulting in improved scores with key ESG rating agencies
• Implemented thoughtful Board refreshment and succession planning, adding 3 new directors in the last 6 years,
transitioning Patrick Siewert into Lead Independent Director role and appointing new Chairs for the Audit andGovernance Committees, and proactively working to mitigate the impact of upcoming concentrated retirementsunder our mandatory retirement policy and further enhance Board diversity
• Conducted regular executive leadership development and succession planning, resulting in several experienced
leaders promoted to senior executive positions, including our new President and Chief Operating Officer (COO),
new leaders of our RBIS Apparel Solutions and IHM businesses, and our CHRO and Chief Legal Officer (CLO) in2020 who effectively transitioned into their roles during 2021
Board Governance Highlights
Our governance program ensures independent Board oversight of our company. Highlights of our program, which we
believe is generally consistent and aligned with the Investor Stewardship Group’s Corporate Governance Principles
for U.S. Listed Companies , are shown below.
Stockholder
Rights✓Market-standard proxy access
✓No supermajority voting requirements
✓No poison pill
✓No exclusive forum or fee-shifting bylaws
Board
Governance✓Annual election of directors
✓Majority voting in director elections
✓Single class of outstanding voting stock
✓Current directors 89% independent; director nominees 88% independent
✓Robust Lead Independent Director role
✓Regular director succession planning and Board refreshment
✓Continuous executive succession planning and leadership development
✓Annual Board evaluations
✓Mandatory director retirement policy at age 72 with no exemptions or waivers allowed or
granted
✓Governance Guidelines
✓Strong Committee governance
✓Direct access to management and experts
APPROVAL OF EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (ITEM 2)
The Compensation Committee oversees our executive compensation program, which delivers pay for performance,
with realized compensation dependent on our company achieving challenging annual and long-term financial targets andvalue creation objectives that advance the interests of our stockholders.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 15Election of President and COO
In late 2021 and early 2022, during Board meetings and executive sessions with our Chairman/CEO, but no other
members of management present, and further one-on-one conversations between our Chairman/CEO and each director,our Board conducted leadership planning, among other things, discussing the potential election of Deon M. Stander, theVice President and General Manager of our RBIS business, as President and COO. As a result of this thorough planningand these robust discussions, in February 2022, Mr. Stander was elected by our Board as our President and COO,effective March 1, 2022. Mr. Butier served as our President through the end of February 2022 and now serves only in theroles of Chairman and CEO.
Performance-Based Compensation
Target total direct compensation (TDC) for our corporate Named Executive Officers (NEOs) is comprised of the
elements shown below.
ELEMENTS OF TARGET TDC FOR CORPORATE NEOs
ANNUALAdjusted EPS
60%
Adjusted Sales
Growth
20%Free Cash Flow
20%AIP AwardBase Salary
•  Generally set around market median
LONG-TERMPerformance Units (PUs)
•  50% Relative TSR
•  50% Cumulative EVA
•  3-year cliff vestingLTI Awards
Market-leveraged Stock Units (MSUs)
•  100% Absolute TSR
•  4-year ratable vesting•  Avg. performance period of 2.5 years 50%50%
The Compensation Committee approves the target TDC of our NEOs to incent strong operational and financial
performance and stockholder value creation. As shown below, the substantial majority of this compensation is
performance-based, meaning that our executives ultimately may not realize the value of the at-risk components of
TDC if we fail to achieve our strategic, financial and ESG objectives. Our business NEO’s 2021 AIP award and PUs had
different performance objectives than those of our corporate NEOs.
2021 TARGET TDC MIX 
Performance-Based CompensationSalary
30%AIP
Award
18%
PUs
26%
MSUs
26%Other NEOs
AVG. 70%
at risk Salary
12%AIP
Award
17%
PUs
36%CEO
88%
at risk 
MSUs
35%
16 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationPay for Performance
As shown in the graph below, in recent years, our CEO’s compensation increased commensurate with our cumulative
TSR, with his 2021 pay reflecting the longer-term approach to CEO compensation approved by the CompensationCommittee in 2021. See the Compensation Discussion and Analysis section of this proxy statement for more information.
$9.0 $8.7 $8.5 $8.7$12.4
$100$337
12/31/2016Five-Year CEO Pay and Cumulative TSR
CEO Pay ($M) TSR Indexed to 12/31/162017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Executive Compensation Best Practices
As summarized below and described in further detail in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis section of this
proxy statement, our executive compensation program aligns with our financial goals and business strategies and reflects
best practices.
Pay-for-Performance✓88% of CEO 2021 target TDC tied to company performance
✓71% of CEO 2021 target TDC equity-based to incent delivery of long-term stockholder value
✓Rigorous stock ownership policy; requires CEO to own ~6x base salary, 50%+ of which must
be vested shares; does not count unvested PUs and only counts 50% of unvested MSUs
Compensation
Best Practices✓Double-trigger equity vesting requires termination of employment after change of control
✓YE 2021 three-year average burn rate of 0.58%, in line with 50thpercentile of S&P 500
companies
✓Compensation clawback in event of accounting restatement
✓Independent compensation consultant retained and serving at direction of Compensation
Committee
✓Annual Compensation Committee evaluation and charter review
✓Periodic formal risk assessment of compensation policies and practices
✓Releases from liability and restrictive covenants for departing executives
✓Compensation Committee review of NEO tally sheets reflecting all compensation
components
✓No NEO employment contracts
✓No guaranteed AIP awards; NEO AIP awards based on company, business and ESG
performance
✓No excise tax gross-ups on change of control severance benefits
✓No tax gross-ups on perquisites
✓No above-market interest rates for deferred compensation
✓No re-pricing of stock options without stockholder approval
✓No payout of MSU dividend equivalents until vesting
✓No grant of stock options below fair market value
✓No supplemental retirement benefits
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 17RATIFICATION OF APPOINTMENT OF PwC (ITEM 3)
Our Board’s Audit and Finance Committee has appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) as our independent
registered public accounting firm for fiscal year 2022 and our Board is seeking stockholder ratification of the appointment.PwC is well-qualified to continue serving as our independent registered public accounting firm, has a deep understandingof our operations and accounting practices, and maintains rigorous procedures to ensure auditor independence. Thecommittee considered the qualifications, performance and independence of PwC, the quality of its discussions with PwC,and the fees charged by PwC for the level and quality of services provided by the firm during 2021 – as well asconsiderations regarding PwC’s tenure as our independent auditor – and determined that the reappointment of PwC wasin the best interest of our company and stockholders.
18 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationGOVERNANCE
With oversight from our Board, we have designed our governance program to comply with applicable laws and
regulations – including the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the listing standards of the NewYork Stock Exchange (NYSE) – and to reflect best practices as informed by the practices of other large public companies,
recommendations from our outside advisors, the voting guidelines of our stockholders and the policies of proxy advisory
firms. The key features of our program are described in the Board Governance Highlights section of the proxy summary.
We encourage you to visit the investors section of our website under Corporate Governance, where you can view and
download the current versions of the documents shown below and referenced in this proxy statement.
• Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation
• Amended and Restated Bylaws (our “Bylaws”)• Corporate Governance Guidelines (our “Governance Guidelines”)• Charters for our Board’s Audit and Finance Committee (the “Audit Committee”), Talent and Compensation
Committee (the “Compensation Committee”) and Governance Committee
• Code of Conduct• Code of Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers• Audit Committee Complaint Procedures for Accounting and Auditing Matters
Information on our website is not and should not be considered part of, nor is it incorporated by reference into, this
proxy statement. You can receive copies of these documents, without charge, by writing to our Corporate Secretary at
8080 Norton Parkway, Mentor, Ohio 44060.
VALUES AND ETHICS
Our Code of Conduct applies to all of our directors, officers and employees and reflects our values of Integrity,
Courage, External Focus, Diversity, Sustainability, Innovation, Teamwork and Excellence. The Code includes leadership
messages, detailed information regarding higher risk areas, and case studies to provide guidance on situations that raise
complex ethical questions. It has been translated into over 30 languages and our leaders affirm their commitment to
complying with it when they first join our company and thereafter as part of our compliance certification process. Weregularly train employees on Code topics in instructor-led sessions held in person or virtually, in addition to our onlinetraining program generally consisting of four courses per year that our computer-based employees are required tocomplete.
To ensure that the policies and principles encompassed in our Code of Conduct reach all our employees, we develop
and launch three “Talkabout” Toolkits (also in over 30 languages) globally each year, which managers are required to use
to engage in meaningful discussion with their teams regarding topics from the Code of Conduct. These toolkits consist of
presentation slides and an introductory subtitled video, which includes messages from our Chief Compliance Officer andother company leaders.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 19Ethics-Based Corporate Culture and Policies
Reflecting the culture of our company, the ethics-based corporate policies and other matters discussed in our Code of
Conduct are shown below. Our global supplier standards extend our commitment to our third party service providers,establishing our expectation that they do business in an ethical manner.
Our Workplace Our Marketplace Our World
Trade Compliance
Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery
Governmental Cooperation
Sustainability and Environmental Respect
Community and Social Responsibility
Social Media EngagementAvoidance of Conﬂicts of Interest
Appropriate Gifts, Meals and Entertainment
Respecting Corporate Opportunities
Supplier Standards
Honest Sales and Marketing
Fair Dealing and Antitrust ComplianceEqual Employment Opportunity
Anti-Nepotism
Harassment-Free Workplace
Safe and Drug Free Work Environment
Accurate Business and Financial Records
Compliance with Laws and Internal Controls
Protection of Company Assets and
Intellectual Property
Records Retention and Insider Trading
Respecting Privacy and Protecting
Personal DataCode of Conduct
Business Conduct GuideLine
Our Business Conduct GuideLine (the “GuideLine”) is a whistleblower hotline available at all hours for employees or
third parties to report potential violations of our Code of Conduct or applicable laws, anonymously if they so choose.
The GuideLine may be reached by (i) calling 800.461.9330 toll-free in the U.S., +1.720.514.4400 direct with applicable
charges from any location, or toll-free outside of the U.S. using the country-specific toll-free numbers found in our Code ofConduct or (ii) visiting www.averydennison.com/guidelinereport (www.averydennison.com/guidelinereport-eu in Europe).The hotline is operated by an independent third party and accepts reports in any language to accommodate the needs of
our global workforce and customer/supplier base. Reports are investigated under the direction of our Chief Compliance
Officer, in consultation with our law department and senior management and with oversight from the GovernanceCommittee. We prohibit retaliation for good-faith reporting.
Financial Code of Ethics
We have adopted a Code of Ethics that requires our CEO, CFO and Controller/Chief Accounting Officer (CAO) to act
professionally and ethically in fulfilling their responsibilities. Only the Audit Committee or the Governance Committee can
amend or waive the provisions of our Code of Ethics, and any amendments or waivers must be posted promptly on ourwebsite or timely filed with the SEC on a Current Report on Form 8-K. We last amended our Code of Ethics in April 2014and we have made no exemptions or granted any waivers since its inception.
Code of Ethics Responsibilities
• Avoid actual or apparent conflicts of interest• Ensure complete and accurate SEC filings• Respect confidentiality of financial and other information
• Employ corporate assets responsibly
• Report Code of Ethics violations to Chair of Audit or Governance Committees
Supporting fulfillment of these responsibilities, our controllership and internal audit functions ensure that we maintain
a robust internal control environment, with the leaders of these functions regularly reporting to, and periodically meetingin executive session with, the Audit Committee.
20 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationCOMPLAINT PROCEDURES FOR ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING MATTERS
The Audit Committee has adopted procedures for the confidential, anonymous submission of complaints related to
accounting, accounting standards, internal accounting controls and audit practices.
These procedures relate to reports of (i) fraud or deliberate error in the preparation, evaluation, review or audit of our
financial statements or other financial reports; (ii) fraud or deliberate error in the recording or maintenance of our financial
records; (iii) deficiencies in, or noncompliance with, our internal accounting controls; (iv) misrepresentation or falsestatement regarding any matter contained in our financial records, statements or other reports; or (v) deviation from fulland fair reporting of our financial condition. Any person, including third parties, may submit a good faith complaintregarding accounting and auditing matters and employees may do so without fear of retaliation. The Audit Committeeoversees these procedures, with investigations conducted under the direction of our internal audit department in
consultation with our Corporate Secretary, Chief Legal Officer and senior management to the extent appropriate under
the circumstances.
Stockholders and other interested parties interested in communicating regarding these matters may make a
confidential, anonymous report by contacting the GuideLine or writing to the Audit and Finance Committee Chair, c/o
Corporate Secretary, 8080 Norton Parkway, Mentor, Ohio 44060.
STOCK OWNERSHIP POLICY
Our stock ownership policy requires that non-employee directors acquire and maintain a minimum ownership
interest in our company of $500,000 and our CEO, Level 2 executives and Level 3 executives acquire and maintain aminimum ownership interest in our company equal to 6x, 3x and 2x their base salary, respectively, at least 50% of
which must be held in vested shares .
The values of the following shares/units are considered in measuring compliance with our stock ownership policy:
shares beneficially owned or deemed to be beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, under federal securities laws; for
officers, shares or units held in qualified and non-qualified employee benefit plans, unvested restricted stock units (RSUs)
subject to time-based vesting, and 50% of the value of unvested MSUs at the target payout level; and, for non-employeedirectors, deferred stock units (DSUs). Neither stock options nor unvested PUs are considered in measuring compliance.
Until a director or officer achieves his or her respective ownership requirement, he or she is required to retain shares
acquired, net of taxes, from the exercise of stock options or vesting of stock awards until the requirement is met. Theseindividuals are not allowed to transact in company stock until they certify that they will remain in compliance with our
stock ownership policy after giving effect to the transaction they plan to effectuate.
The Compensation Committee and the Governance Committee reviewed the stock ownership of our non-employee
directors in November 2021 and February 2022, respectively. Both Committees determined that all of our non-employee
directors were in compliance with the policy, with average ownership of 12x the ownership requirement , helping
ensure their interests remain aligned with those of our stockholders and further incenting their focus on long-term
stockholder value creation. The relatively high average ownership level by our non-employee directors is largely due to
the inclusion of DSUs for purposes of our stock ownership policy; DSUs represent annual cash retainers deferred at adirector’s election. DSUs are included as owned under the policy because they are earned upon receipt and would be paidout to a director upon his or her separation from our Board.
The Compensation Committee reviewed executive stock ownership in November 2021 and determined that all of our
executive officers, including all NEOs, were in compliance with our stock ownership policy . The compliance of our
directors and NEOs with our stock ownership policy as of year-end 2021 is shown on the following page.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 21STOCK OWNERSHIP POLICY COMPLIANCE
Minimum
Requirement(1)Shares(2)as of
2021 FYE (#)Requirement
Multiple
AchievedPolicy
Compliance
Non-Employee Directors $ 500,000
Bradley Alford 42,930 18x ✓
Anthony Anderson 16,069 6x ✓
Mark Barrenechea 6,892 2x ✓
Ken Hicks 43,810 18x ✓
Andres Lopez 8,390 3x ✓
Patrick Siewert 16,842 7x ✓
Julia Stewart 63,471 27x ✓
Martha Sullivan 28,727 12x ✓
Chairman & CEO
Mitchell Butier $7,200,000 269,668 8x ✓
Level 2 NEOs
Gregory Lovins $1,983,780 46,051 5x ✓
Deon Stander $1,707,021 35,663 4x ✓
Level 3 NEOs(3)
Deena Baker-Nel $ 832,000 4,005 1x ✓
Ignacio Walker $ 850,750 6,948 1x ✓
(1)Minimum requirements for CEO, Level 2 NEOs and Level 3 NEOs reflect 6x, 3x and 2x, respectively, of their respective base salary as of
year-end 2021.
(2)Reflects shares/units considered in measuring compliance with our stock ownership policy rather than vested shares, based on theaverage closing price of our common stock from October 1 to December 31, 2021.
(3)Minimum requirements for Ms. Baker-Nel and Mr. Walker increased from 1x to 2x their respective base salaries in connection with theirpromotions in September 2020.
INSIDER TRADING POLICY
Our insider trading policy prohibits our Board members, officers and employees from engaging in transactions in our
company’s stock while in the possession of material non-public information; engaging in transactions in the stock of othercompanies while in possession of material non-public information that they become aware of in performing their duties;
and disclosing material non-public information to unauthorized persons outside our company.
Limited Trading Windows
Our insider trading policy restricts trading by Board members, officers (including our NEOs) and director-level
employees during blackout periods, which generally begin two weeks before the end of each fiscal quarter and end twobusiness days after the release of earnings for the quarter. Additional blackout periods may be imposed with or without
notice, as the circumstances require.
Prohibitions on Hedging and Pledging
Our insider trading policy prohibits our directors, officers (including our NEOs) and employees from purchasing
financial instruments (such as prepaid variable forward contracts, equity swaps, collars and exchange funds)
designed to hedge or offset any decrease in the market value of shares of our common stock they hold, directly or
indirectly. In addition, directors and officers are expressly prohibited from – and our non-officer employees are strongly
discouraged from – pledging shares of our common stock to secure personal loans or other obligations, including byholding such shares in a margin account.
To our knowledge based on our review of their written representations in our annual director and officer
questionnaire, all of our Board members and executive officers complied with our insider trading policy during 2021,and none of them has hedged or pledged shares of our common stock.
22 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY
Sustainability and Diversity are two of our core values and have long been part of our approach to doing business,
driving us to work within our company and across our entire value chain to address the environmental and social impactsof our products and practices . We aim to continually improve the environmental sustainability of our products and
processes, build a more diverse, equitable and inclusive workforce, and provide meaningful support for our
communities .
With strategic guidance and direction provided by Mitch Butier, our Chairman/CEO, responsibility over ensuring that
we continue to make progress toward achieving our sustainability goals resides with Deon Stander, now our President
and COO. Our enterprise-wide Sustainability Council, led by Mr. Stander and comprised of a cross-divisional and cross-
functional group of leaders to drive broad accountability and continually accelerate our progress, met regularly during2021 to develop our 2030 sustainability goals and targets, as well as formulate our go-forward ESG strategy.
Board oversight over environmental sustainability and community investment is primarily conducted by the
Governance Committee, which receives a report from management on each of these topics at least once a year. Inaddition, our full Board engages with business leaders on their sustainability initiatives during its regular review of theirbusiness strategies. In July and October 2021, our full Board held strategy sessions focused on environmental
sustainability, our innovation efforts to address the increasing need and demand for more sustainable products, our
strategic innovation platforms focused on waste reduction/elimination and material circularity, and our overall ESG
strategy, priorities and progress.
Board oversight over social sustainability is conducted primarily through the Compensation Committee, which
reviewed our DE+I progress at each of its meetings in 2021 and regularly discusses other matters related to talent
management. In December 2021, our full Board engaged with, and challenged, management on our DE+I progress ,
including by reviewing the four pillars of our enterprise DE+I strategy, as well as its supporting regional focus areas.
ENGAGING OUR STAKEHOLDERS
We seek to ensure that our sustainability efforts are consistent with the expectations of our stakeholders. We
regularly communicate with individuals and organizations interested in how we do business generally and oursustainability efforts in particular, and also conduct stakeholder interviews as part of our biennial materiality assessments.
These assessments help set our sustainability agenda, focusing us on the areas in which we can have the most impact. In
2020, we partnered with Environmental Resources Management to refresh our materiality assessment and reprioritizethe sustainability topics most significant to our stakeholders. The resulting materiality map showing the importance of
various ESG topics to our company and external stakeholders may be found in our March 2022 ESG Download. We
have begun working on our next biennial materiality assessment, which we plan to share with our stakeholders in March
2023.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 23SUSTAINABILITY STAKEHOLDERS
1
Industry
Trade Associations Cross-Industry Working Groups Conferences
2
Customers and Brand Owners
Product Collaborations Surveys Site Audits Working Groups
3
Employees
Engagement Survey Works Councils Employee Resource Groups Intranet/Town Halls
Code of Conduct Training Business Conduct GuideLine
4
Investors
Annual Meetings Quarterly Earnings Calls Investor Meetings Stockholder Engagement Program
5
Non-Governmental Organizations
Consultations on Issues of Concern Specific Initiatives (e.g., responsibly sourcing paper, reducing GHG emissions)
6
Policymakers and Regulators
Permitting Audits Certifications
7
Communities
Foundation Grant-making Employee Volunteerism Civic Collaboration
8
Suppliers
Supplier Standards Compliance Training Supplier Audits Joint Projects
PROGRESS TOWARD ACHIEVING OUR 2025 AND 2030 GOALS
We present our scorecard showing progress against our 2025 sustainability goals through 2021 in the proxy
summary. We present our progress against our 2030 goals in our 2021 integrated annual and sustainability report. Youcan find additional information in our ESG Downloads available in the investors section of our website at
investors.averydennison.com and on our ESG website at esg.averydennison.com. Our 2021 integrated sustainability and
annual report, ESG Downloads and other information on our website are not and should not be considered part of, nor arethey incorporated by reference into, this proxy statement.
24 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationWe disclose our ESG metrics using the frameworks of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB),
the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and CDP Worldwide. We are a member of the United Nations Global Compactand have made commitments to the UN Sustainable Development Goals and the Science Based Targets initiative(SBTi), with our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions reduction targets having been approved by SBTi as consistent withlevels required to meet the goals of the Paris Agreement.
DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION (DE+I)
Diversity is one of our core values, reflecting our desire to ensure an equitable and inclusive environment for
people of all backgrounds and orientations and our recognition that we gain strength from diverse ideas and teams .
The importance of DE+I to our company is evidenced by the engagement, inclusion and gender diversity-related targets
included in our 2030 sustainability goals. Highlights of our DE+I journey are shown in the proxy summary.
Beginning in 2020, we redoubled our efforts on DE+I, engaging with our employees across the globe to gather
information on areas where we most needed to focus. After listening and learning from our employees, our leadersregularly met to discuss areas of focus, and each of our business’ strategies include quantitative DE+I goals, with theirleaders evaluated on the progress they make.
In 2021, we engaged a third party expert to help us perform DE+I baselining, which included an enterprise-wide
inclusion assessment and pipeline analysis, provide external benchmarking and obtain independent anonymous and
focus group feedback from our team members worldwide. With this information, we identified our DE+I priorities and
developed our go-forward DE+I strategy, which includes the following four pillars: increasing the number of women
who hold leadership positions; enhancing the experience of our shop floor employees; increasing DE+I forunderrepresented groups; and making merit and transparency even more foundational to our employee experience .
These pillars, as well as the supporting regional focus areas, have been communicated to our employees worldwide.
Each of our strategic pillars is sponsored by members of our Company Leadership Team. To ensure we achieve our
goals, we have advanced our internal DE+I capability and leadership, with a Global DE+I Director and additional resourcesin each of our regions, together forming a global infrastructure of fully-dedicated resources. To keep ourselvesaccountable, we are committed to continuing to enhance external transparency into our DE+I journey through regularreporting and engagement with our stakeholders so they may critically assess our progress and provide feedback to help
us achieve our goals.
OTHER TALENT MANAGEMENT MATTERS
Succession Planning
The Compensation Committee and our full Board conduct executive succession planning at least semiannually,
reviewing succession plans for our CEO and other senior executives. Consistent with this practice, in April 2021, the
Compensation Committee discussed potential successors to the members of our Company Leadership Team, andaligned on a process and timeline to enhance focus on CEO succession planning as a matter of strong corporategovernance . In October 2021, the Compensation Committee again reviewed talent that is ready – or, with continued
development on their current trajectory with mentorship and coaching from our current leaders, will be ready – to fill
senior executive positions in the event of a vacancy . These assessments were further discussed with our full Board. In
addition, in July and December 2021, our full Board conducted CEO succession planning to ensure ready-now
successors over multiple time horizons. The Compensation Committee also reviews executive new hires, promotions,
transfers and departures in connection with each of its meetings to assist with executive succession planning and
leadership development.
Leadership Development
The Compensation Committee oversees our company’s talent management programs to assist with identifying and
developing our future leaders. We maintain a robust performance review process and provide leadership development
opportunities for our employees. Senior management reports to the Compensation Committee or our full Board on
leadership at executive levels of our organization by identifying high-potential talent and critical experts, cultivatingthe skills and capabilities to allow identified individuals to become our future leaders, and ensuring that they haveappropriate development plans in place to progress them toward greater responsibility . Through regular reports from
management, our Board has the opportunity to meet our business leaders and functional leaders in law, finance,
information technology and human resources. In addition, Board members have freedom of access to all our employees,and are encouraged to visit our facilities to meet with local management and attend company events.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 25COMMUNITY INVESTMENT
With Board oversight from the Governance Committee, our community investment efforts help strengthen the
communities around the world in which we operate. We make most of our community investments through the AveryDennison Foundation (ADF), which annually distributes at least 5% of its assets from the prior year. ADF’s grant-making,our primary means of giving, is aided by our employees worldwide who help identify deserving nonprofit organizationsserving communities where our employees live and work. Historically, ADF has given to organizations advancing
education, women’s empowerment and sustainability. In 2021, ADF continued to address these funding areas, whilealso responding to the COVID-19 pandemic, natural disasters and the call for greater DE+I worldwide.
In 2021, ADF and our company collectively made $6.3 million in grants and other financial contributions, more than
double that of the prior year. In the discussion that follows, we provide an overview of this giving.
COVID-19 and Disaster Response
Beginning in 2020, ADF shifted its resources to support the response to COVID-19 in communities where our
company has a presence. We continued that support in 2021. In a joint effort with the company, ADF provided grants tohelp fund COVID-19 relief efforts by nonprofit organizations in our global communities, including those described below.
•India: A grant of $230,000 to support the American India Foundation in helping meet the acute shortage of
portable hospital beds in the city of Gurgaon, where our company has facilities; a second grant of $235,000 tothe American India Foundation helped source vaccines, supply diagnostic and medical emergency equipment,
raise vaccination awareness and mitigate nutrition gaps in the city of Bangalore, where our company also has
operations
•Brazil: A grant of $100,000 supported Doctors Without Borders/Médecins Sans Frontières’ with vaccine
coordination and the purchase and distribution of medical supplies
•Sri Lanka: A grant of $50,000 helped the Rotary Club in the city of Kandy provide ICU beds at a rural hospital
and purchase ventilators and other needed medical equipment
•Vietnam: Two grants totaling $70,000 helped support the Red Cross Vietnam’s COVID-19 response in Long An
and Bac Ninh
In 2021, ADF also continued to support the Employee Assistance Fund it launched in 2020, which provides financial
assistance to our employees who have been significantly adversely impacted by COVID-19. The fund was designed tohelp provide for basic needs such as housing and utilities, medical care, dependent care and other pandemic-relatedexpenses. The fund also provides support to families of employees who have died from COVID-19. Employee donations
have significantly supplemented ADF funds for this effort. In all, more than $3.4 million was distributed in 2021 to more
than 4,200 individuals in 27 countries. The fund is administered by Global Impact, an independent third party.
ADF also partnered with third-party nonprofit GlobalGiving to facilitate donations from our employees to disaster
relief efforts, ensuring that their donations support legitimate and vetted nonprofit organizations in affected communities.All donations made through GlobalGiving are matched by ADF, and employees receive regular reports from theorganizations they support describing accomplishments with the funding received. In 2021, our employees supported 43charitable organizations through GlobalGiving, with donations totaling $60,000.
DE+I Support
Prompted in part by events in the U.S. in 2020, and in recognition of the role it can play in accelerating society’s
journey toward greater equity, ADF made grants to organizations promoting DE+I globally. ADF worked with our regionalDE+I councils and ERGs around the world to identify organizations most relevant to underrepresented communities ineach region. A selection of these grants is described below.
•Education: Included grants of $200,000 to World Vision Honduras to teach life skills to at-risk women;
$132,000 to Associação Beneficente ABID to enhance foster care services in São Paulo, Brazil; $17,000 toFundacion Leer to support literacy programs in Buenos Aires, Argentina; and $5,000 to Boys and Girls Club ofPasadena, California
26 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison Corporation•Sustainability: Included grants of $200,000 to Waste and Resource Action Program to support public-private
partnerships aimed at reducing food waste in Indonesia and $50,000 to Lake-Geauga Habitat for Humanity toprovide housing for low-income families in Painesville, Ohio
•Women’s Empowerment : Included grants of $250,000 to UN Foundation Resilience Fund to support women in
South and Southeast Asia; $124,000 to The Smile Foundation to support women’s empowerment in Delhi, India;
$100,000 to Right to Play to provide educational opportunities for girls in refugee camps and underserved
communities in Pakistan and Burundi; and $88,000 to Gesanghua Education Foundation to provide hygiene carepackages for girls in Qinghai, China
•DE+I: Included grants of $200,000 to HOLA Ohio to support a new Hispanic community center in Painesville;
$50,000 to Youth Opportunities Unlimited to provide job readiness and training to African American youth inCleveland, Ohio; $25,000 to the LGBT Community Center of Greater Cleveland to support LGBTQ+ awarenessand programming in Northeastern Ohio; $25,000 to the Wounded Warrior Project to support veteran mental
health; and $10,000 to Stichting – Women in Higher Technical Education to support gender diversity in STEM
programs in the Netherlands
Employee Engagement
As the heart and hands of our company, our employees are critical to advancing our community investment efforts
through both their giving and volunteerism. More than 150 employee teams coordinate volunteerism locally at our global
locations. Examples of employee engagement in 2021 are described below.
• Employees in India supported The Smile Foundation’s “Health Cannot Wait” campaign to boost distribution of
oxygen concentrators and ventilators to government health institutions
• Team members in Ireland honored International Women’s Day by donating to Longford Women’s Link, an
organization providing education and training opportunities for women
• Our RBIS employees produced limited-edition, iron-on patches designed to celebrate healthcare and frontline
workers and promote health and safety, with net proceeds benefiting Doctors Without Borders/Médecins Sans
Frontières
• Business partnerships with local organizations promoting DE+I, as well as our company hiring interns from
community partners such as Esperanza, the National Society of Black Engineers and Black ProfessionalsCharitable Foundation
ADF also engages employees through its Granting Wishes program, which allows employees to recommend
one-time grants to their local non-governmental organizations (NGOs). Given increased need in 2021, employees weremore engaged than ever in nominating charitable organizations for funding and volunteering to support thoseorganizations, resulting in grants of $10,000 each to 80 NGOs in 33 countries. In the 10 years since ADF launched
Granting Wishes, more than 2,000 of our employees have submitted funding recommendations, resulting in grants to
more than 350 organizations.
Scholarship Programs
ADF continues to provide scholarships to the children of our U.S. employees in the U.S. To date, over 660
scholarships have been awarded. This program is administered by Scholarship America, an independent third party.
ADF has also partnered with our company to develop a Children of Employees Scholarship Program outside the U.S.
Initial countries proposed for the program include Bangladesh, Mexico, Sri Lanka and Vietnam. This program, which is
expected to launch in 2022, will be administered by the Institute for Internal Education, an independent third party.
ADF’s InvEnt Scholarships have for more than a decade supported the next generation of innovators in science,
technology, engineering and mathematics. Scholarships have provided undergraduates in China and India with tuition
assistance, the opportunity to participate in an invention competition and professional development opportunities. To
date, scholarships have been awarded to over 100 students in China and nearly 100 students in India who havedemonstrated outstanding innovative spirit and strong practical competence.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 27OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS
OVERVIEW
Our Board oversees, counsels and ensures management is serving the best interests of our company and
stockholders, with the goal of maximizing the performance of our businesses and delivering long-term value for all ourstakeholders.
PRIMARY BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES
• Establish strong governance, with Board/Committee structure and responsibilities providing independent
oversight
• Review Board composition and conduct director succession planning to maintain engaged and diverse Board
with balance of skills, qualifications and demographic backgrounds
• Oversee businesses, strategy execution, ESG priorities and progress, and risk mitigation
• Approve annual operating plan and strategic decisions, including significant fixed and IT capital expenditures
and acquisitions
• Maintain integrity of financial statements
• Evaluate performance of senior leaders and determine executive compensation
• Conduct executive succession planning and ensure effective talent management
Our Board’s top priority in 2021 given the continuing public health crisis of COVID-19 was supporting
management in protecting the health, safety and well-being of our employees, delivering for our customers,minimizing the impact of the pandemic on our investors and supporting our communities .
2022 Director Nominees
Our Bylaws provide that our Board be comprised of between 8 and 12 directors, with the exact number fixed from
time to time by Board resolution. Our Board has fixed the current number of directors at 9. In February 2022, directorMark Barrenechea notified our Board of his decision not to stand for reelection at the 2022 Annual Meeting so he canfocus on other endeavors; as a result, our Board expects that it will fix the number of directors at 8 in April 2022assuming that all nominees are reelected.
Our 2022 director nominees are shown in the chart below.
Name Age Director Since Principal Occupation Independent AC CC GC
Bradley A. Alford 65 2010 Retired Chairman & CEO, Nestlé USA ✓ ŠŠ
Anthony K. Anderson 66 2012 Retired Vice Chair & Managing Partner, Ernst & Young LLP ✓ ŠŠ
Mitchell R. Butier 50 2016 Chairman & CEO, Avery Dennison Corporation
Ken C. Hicks 69 2007 Chairman, President & CEO, Academy Sports + Outdoors ✓ Š
Andres A. Lopez 59 2017 President & CEO, O-I Glass, Inc. ✓ Š
Patrick T. Siewert /pentastar3 66 2005 Managing Director & Partner, The Carlyle Group ✓ Š Š
Julia A. Stewart 66 2003 Chair & CEO, Alurx, Inc. ✓ Š Š
Martha N. Sullivan 65 2013 Retired CEO, Sensata Technologies Holding PLC ✓ Š
AC = Audit and Finance Committee CC = Talent and Compensation Committee GC = Governance Committee
/pentastar3= Lead Independent Director Š= Chair Š= Member
The ages of our director nominees range from 50 to 69, with an average age of approximately 63. Their lengths of
service range from 5 to 19 years, with an average tenure on our Board – after Mr. Barrenechea’s scheduled departure inApril 2022 – of approximately 11
1/2years.
Our director nominees bring a balance of skills, qualifications and demographic backgrounds in overseeing our
company, as shown by individual in the Board matrix included in the proxy summary.
28 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationBoard Meetings and Attendance
Our Board met five times and acted once by unanimous written consent during 2021. There were 14 Board
Committee meetings and one Committee action by unanimous written consent during the year. All directors attended atleast 75% of their respective Board and Committee meetings, with average attendance of 99%. In addition, our directors
regularly discussed matters of critical importance with our Chairman/CEO throughout the year outside of meetings,particularly with regard to our COVID-19 response; related supply chain, labor, freight and inflationary challenges;
potential acquisitions; and ESG priorities and progress. Directors are strongly encouraged to attend our annual
stockholder meetings under our Governance Guidelines and all directors attended the virtual 2021 Annual Meeting .
GOVERNANCE GUIDELINES
Our Governance Guidelines provide the governance framework for our company and reflect the values of our Board,
as highlighted below. They are reviewed at least annually and amended from time to time to reflect changes in regulatoryrequirements, evolving market practices, recommendations from our advisors and feedback from our stockholders. Our
Governance Guidelines were most recently amended in December 2021.
BOARD GOVERNANCE HIGHLIGHTS
Board
Composition✓ Reasonable Board size of 9 directors; after Annual Meeting, 8 directors
✓ Mandatory retirement after age 72 with no exemptions or waivers allowed or granted; no
term limits
✓ On average, director nominee age of 63 years and tenure of 111/2years
✓ 63% of director nominees are female or from underrepresented communities
Director
Independence✓ Current directors and director nominees 89% and 88% independent, respectively
✓ Executive sessions of independent directors held at all five 2021 Board meetings
Board
Leadership
Structure✓ Annual review of Board leadership structure
✓ Robust Lead Independent Director role and independent Committee Chairs
Board Committees✓ 100% independent
✓ Annual composition review and periodic Chair/members rotation
✓ Act under annually reviewed charters reflecting best practices and stakeholder
expectations
✓ Directors required to attend Board/Committee and stockholder meetings
Board Duties✓ Regular CEO/senior executive succession planning
✓ Ongoing review of long-term strategic plans, including key risks and mitigating
strategies
✓ Directors entitled to rely on independent legal, financial or other advisors at our expense
Continuous
Board
Improvement✓ New directors participate in initial orientation to familiarize themselves with our company
and after joining Board committees to understand their responsibilities
✓ Continuing education through meetings with management, visits to our facilities and
participation in director education programs
✓ Annual evaluation process ensures Board, Committees, Chairman, Lead Independent
Director and Committee Chairs are functioning effectively; includes peer evaluation
Director
Qualifications✓ Regular review of Board composition (skills, qualifications, demographic backgrounds
including with respect to gender, race and ethnicity, and board commitments) anddirector succession planning
DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
Our Governance Guidelines require that our Board be comprised of a majority of directors who satisfy the criteria for
independence under NYSE listing standards and that our audit, compensation and nominating committees be comprisedentirely of independent directors. An independent director is one who meets the independence requirements of the NYSE
and who our Board affirmatively determines has no material relationship with our company, directly or indirectly as a
partner, stockholder or officer of an entity with which we have a relationship.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 29Each year, our directors complete a questionnaire designed to solicit information that may have a bearing on our
Board’s independence determination, including all relationships they have with our company, directly or indirectly throughour company’s sale or purchase of products or services to or from the companies or firms by which they are employed.The Governance Committee reviews any relevant disclosures made in the questionnaires with our Corporate Secretary, aswell as any transactions our company has with director-affiliated entities. In February 2022, after review of the facts andcircumstances relevant to each director, the Governance Committee concluded that only Mr. Butier had a relationship thatwas disqualifying under NYSE listing standards, otherwise material or impairing of director independence. Upon therecommendation of the Governance Committee, our Board affirmatively determined the 8 current directors named belowto be independent; as shown below, 88% of our director nominees are independent.
Independent Directors
Bradley Alford
Anthony Anderson
Mark Barrenechea
Ken Hicks
Andres Lopez
Patrick Siewert
Julia Stewart
Martha SullivanDirector Nominee Independence
For a discussion of the potential impact of tenure on director independence, see the Board Refreshment and Director
Succession Planning section of this proxy statement.
BOARD LEADERSHIP STRUCTURE
Our Governance Guidelines give our Board – acting through its independent directors – the discretion to separate or
combine the roles of Chairman and CEO as it deems appropriate based on the needs of our company at any given time.To facilitate this decision-making, the Governance Committee annually reviews our Board leadership structure, providing
its recommendation on the appropriate structure for the following one-year term to our independent directors giving
consideration to, among other things, our financial position, business strategies, ESG priorities and any feedback receivedfrom our stockholders.
Robust Lead Independent Director Role
Our robust Lead Independent Director role balances our combined Chairman/CEO role by exercising critical duties to
ensure independent decision-making in the boardroom. Mr. Siewert began serving as our Lead Independent Director in
April 2020 and was reelected by our independent directors for another one-year term in April 2021. Our Governance
Guidelines clearly define his primary responsibilities, which are shown below.
LEAD INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR PRIMARY RESPONSIBILITIES
Designee:
Patrick Siewert•Preside over executive sessions of independent directors and Board meetings
where Chairman/CEO is not present
•Serve as liaison between Chairman/CEO and independent directors
Selected annually by independent directors • Approve Board meeting agendas and schedules
•Call meetings of independent directors
•Consult and meet with stockholders
Mr. Siewert also performed the activities described below and on the following page as Lead Independent Director in
2021.
• Led majority of our off-season stockholder engagement discussions
• Frequently engaged with Chairman/CEO to help guide strategic direction, including COVID-19 response and
related supply chain, labor, freight and inflationary challenges, review of business strategies, mitigation of relatedrisks, assessment of potential acquisitions and ESG progress
• Consulted frequently with other independent directors and interviewed each of them as part of annual Board/
Committee evaluation process
30 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison Corporation• Provided feedback to Chairman/CEO based on discussions with independent directors
• Met with members of senior management other than Chairman/CEO
Supplementing our Lead Independent Director in providing independent Board leadership are our Committee Chairs,
all of whom are independent.
Board Leadership Structure
During our Board evaluation process conducted during the fourth quarter of 2021, Messrs. Butier and Siewert each
received uniformly positive feedback from our independent directors in their respective roles as Chairman/CEO and Lead
Independent Director, indicating that our current Board leadership structure is enabling effective oversight of our
company. During our 2021 engagement with stockholders, only one investor expressed a preference that the positions ofChairman and CEO be separated at our company, which we believe reflects support for our robust and clearly delineatedLead Independent Director role and Mr. Siewert’s participation and strong engagement in the majority of our off-seasonmeetings.
In February 2022, the Governance Committee evaluated our Board leadership structure and recommended to our
Board that Mr. Butier be elected to continue serving as Chairman, noting that he has successfully led our company asCEO for the last six years and remains best positioned to lead our Board in overseeing our strategies to deliver long-termvalue for our employees, customers, investors and communities. The committee further noted that Mr. Butier has
articulated and worked to realize a long-term vision for our company that has delivered top quartile TSR performance
and exceeded our 2017-2021 financial targets and that we can best continue to advance our strategies and ESG
progress toward achieving our 2025 sustainability goals – as well as our 2021-2025 financial targets and more ambitious2030 sustainability goals – continuing with combined leadership in the boardroom at this time. Upon the recommendation
of the Governance Committee, our Board unanimously elected Mr. Butier (with him abstaining) to serve as our Chairman,
effective immediately after the Annual Meeting subject to his reelection.
At that time, the Governance Committee also recommended that Mr. Siewert (with him not participating in the
discussion) continue serving as Lead Independent Director. Having a long-serving director with financial expertise and
substantial international experience serve as Lead Independent Director has provided Mr. Butier valuable mentorshipand guidance while ensuring robust independent Board oversight of management. The committee also recognizedMr. Siewert’s valuable support and substantial effort with our stockholder engagement program. The Governance
Committee determined that, in light of his demonstrated commitment, engagement and leadership in the second year in
which he served in this capacity, Mr. Siewert should continue in the role of ensuring independent stewardship of our
Board in its oversight of our strategies to deliver long-term value for all our stakeholders. The committee’s decision tookinto account his significant contribution to the Board’s responsibilities as a member of the Audit Committee since joiningour Board and as its Chair for five years, as the current Chair of the Governance Committee, and his extensiveinternational experience in Asia, a region from which approximately 35% of our sales originated and approximately 58%
of our employees were located in 2021. Upon the recommendation of the Governance Committee, our independent
directors unanimously selected Mr. Siewert (with him abstaining from the vote) to serve as Lead Independent Director,effective immediately after the Annual Meeting subject to his reelection.
BOARD COMMITTEES
Each of our Board Committees has a written charter that describes its purposes, membership and meeting
structure, and responsibilities. These charters may be found on the investors section of our website under CorporateGovernance and are reviewed by the respective committee at least annually, with any recommended changes adopted
upon approval by our Board. Amended charters are promptly posted on our website. The Charters of the Audit,
Compensation and Governance Committees were most recently amended in February 2021.
Each of our Board Committees has the ability to form and delegate authority to subcommittees and may obtain advice
and assistance from internal or external consultants, legal counsel or other advisors at our expense. In addition, each
committee annually evaluates its performance. The primary responsibilities, current membership and 2021 meeting andattendance information for the three standing committees of our Board are summarized on the following pages.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 31AUDIT AND
FINANCE COMMITTEE PRIMARY RESPONSIBILITIES
Current Members:
Martha Sullivan (Chair)
Anthony AndersonAndres LopezPatrick Siewert
2021 meetings: 82021 average attendance: 100%Audit committee financial experts:
Anderson and Siewert
All members satisfy NYSE enhanced
independence standards•Oversee financial statement and disclosure matters , including quarterly and
annual earnings release documentation and SEC reports, internal controls, criticalaccounting policies and practices, and major financial risk exposures
•Appoint and oversee independent registered public accounting firm , including
evaluating its qualifications and independence, as well as scope, staffing and feesfor annual audit and other audit, review or attestation services and annuallyreviewing its performance and regularly considering whether to change firm
•Oversee internal audit function , including appointing/dismissing senior internal
auditor, evaluating his performance, reviewing significant issues identified ininternal audits and management’s response, and discussing annual internal auditplan, budget and staffing
•Perform compliance oversight responsibilities , including overseeing cybersecurity
risk management and risks related to information technology controls andsecurity; maintaining procedures for complaints regarding accounting, internal
accounting controls or auditing matters; reviewing financially material legal matters;and making determinations regarding certain Code of Ethics violations
•Conduct finance oversight responsibilities , including reviewing capital structure
and financing plans, capital allocation strategy, funding status of pension plans, andsignificant tax matters
•Approve Audit and Finance Committee Report for proxy statement
TALENT AND
COMPENSATION COMMITTEE PRIMARY RESPONSIBILITIES
Current Members:
Julia Stewart (Chair)
Bradley AlfordMark BarrenecheaKen Hicks
2021 meetings: 42021 average attendance: 100%All members satisfy NYSE enhanced
independence standards and qualify as“non-employee directors” under ExchangeAct Rule 16b-3• Review and approve corporate goals and CEO objectives and evaluate company
and individual performance to determine annual CEO compensation
• Review and approve senior executive compensation , including base salaries and
incentive compensation
•Oversee CEO succession planning and conduct succession and development
planning for other senior executives ; regularly review executive new hires,
promotions and role changes, departures and open positions
•Oversee appropriate compensation strategy , incentive plans and benefit programs
•Review and provide oversight of policies and strategies related to talent
management , including DE+I ; leadership compensation plans, benefit programs,
recruiting and retention strategies, and development programs; and employee
engagement
•Review stockholder engagement process, results and feedback related to
executive compensation and talent management
•Approve CD&A and Talent and Compensation Committee Report for proxy
statement
•Oversee stockholder approval of executive compensation matters , including
say-on-pay votes and frequency of such votes
•Ensure no encouragement of excessive risk-taking in compensation policies/
programs
•Recommend non-employee director compensation
32 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationGOVERNANCE
COMMITTEE PRIMARY RESPONSIBILITIES
Current Members:
Patrick Siewert (Chair)
Bradley AlfordAnthony AndersonJulia Stewart
2021 meetings: 22021 average attendance: 100%
All members satisfy NYSE independence
standards•Identify potential or incumbent Board members and recommend director
nominees
•Annually consider Board leadership structure and recommend whether to
separate or combine positions of Chairman and CEO; if combined, recommend LeadIndependent Director
•Recommend Board and Committee structure, Chairs and members
•Recommend independent directors based on NYSE independence standards
• Review and approve related person transactions
•Oversee annual performance evaluation of Board and Committees
•Review Governance Guidelines and recommend changes
• Review and provide oversight of governance, environmental sustainability and
community investment initiatives, policies and programs
•Review stockholder engagement process, results and feedback related to
governance, environmental sustainability and community investment
•Review stockholder proposals
•Oversee values and ethics program and Code of Conduct , evaluate significant
conflicts of interest and make determinations regarding certain Code of Ethicsviolations
EXECUTIVE SESSIONS
Our Board believes it is important to have executive sessions with our Chairman/CEO, without other members of
management present, and without him, both of which are held at each Board meeting. Our independent directors haverobust and candid discussions at the executive sessions that exclude Mr. Butier during which they critically evaluate the
performance of our company, Chairman/CEO and management. As Lead Independent Director, Mr. Siewert presided
over the five executive sessions of independent directors held during 2021.
In 2021, implementing feedback from our annual Board evaluation process, our Board began starting each of its
meetings with one of two executive sessions with our Chairman/CEO, but no other members of management, todiscuss key focus areas and frame meeting discussions; the second such session at the end of the meeting provides
time for the Board to reflect and align on key priorities, after which our independent directors meet in executive session
without our Chairman/CEO.
Executive sessions are also generally scheduled for meetings of the Audit, Compensation and Governance
Committees. These executive sessions exclude our Chairman/CEO and other members of management, unless theCommittee requests one or more of them to attend a portion of the session to provide additional information orperspective.
RISK OVERSIGHT
Management is responsible for managing the day-to-day risks confronting our businesses, and our Board has
responsibility for overseeing enterprise risk management (ERM) .In performing its oversight role, our Board is
responsible for ensuring that the ERM processes designed and implemented by management are functioning
effectively, and that our culture promotes risk-adjusted decision-making. The teams leading our businesses have
incorporated ERM into developing and executing their strategies, assessing the risks impacting their businesses, andidentifying and implementing appropriate mitigating actions on an ongoing basis. In addition, in consultation with ourleader of Risk Management and senior management, these teams semiannually prepare a risk profile consisting of a heatmap and a summary of their key risks and mitigating strategies, which are used to prepare a company risk profile based
on identified business-specific risks as well as enterprise-wide risks, including risks related to ESG matters such as
climate change, GHG emissions and energy use; materials management; advancing the circular economy; DE+I; waste;and employee health and safety.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 33We have global processes that support our strong internal control environment and promote the early identification
and continued mitigation of risks by our company’s leadership. Our legal and compliance functions report into our CLO toprovide independent evaluation of the challenges facing our businesses and our Vice President of Internal Audit reportsto the Audit Committee in the conduct of his operational responsibilities, ensuring his independence from management.
In 2021, we enhanced our already robust ERM program by meeting to prepare risk profiles with an expanded group
of functional leaders for our RBIS and IHM businesses and each of the regions of our LGM business, in addition to the
global risk profiles we have routinely prepared for each of our reportable segments and our company as a whole. We
also prepared standalone compliance and information technology risk profiles to enable greater focus on these critical
risk areas, and designated risk champions from our Law Department to partner with our Risk Management team in
facilitating future ERM discussions with our business leadership teams. These advancements have embedded ERMdeeper into our organization, allowing us to benefit from the engagement and critical thinking of a broader cross-section of corporate and business leaders. We plan to continue advancing our ERM program, with leadership from ourERM Steering Committee comprised of members of senior management and oversight by our Board.
Our Board as a whole oversees risks related to our company and business strategies and operations, exercising this
responsibility by considering the risks related to its decisions. Each year, our Board receives reports on the ERM process
and the strategic plans and risks facing our businesses and company as a whole; these risks include financial risks,geopolitical risks, legal and regulatory risks, supply chain risks, competitive risks, compliance risks, ESG risks,
information technology risks and other risks related to the ways in which we do business . Employees who lead various
risk areas – such as law, information technology, tax, compliance, sustainability, DE+I and community investment – reportperiodically to Board Committees and occasionally to our full Board.
Our Board has delegated elements of its risk oversight responsibility to its Committees to better coordinate with
management to serve the long-term interests of all our stakeholders. Our Board receives reports from the Committee
Chairs regarding topics discussed at committee meetings, including the areas of risk they primarily oversee, and engageswith our leaders on these risk areas during its regular review of our business strategies.
Risk Oversight
Board of Directors
• Business strategies
• Annual operating plan and significant fixed and IT capital
expenditures
• Corporate governance• Acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions• Enterprise risk management
Audit Committee Compensation Committee Governance Committee
• Financial reporting processes and
statements, and internal controls
• Capital structure• Financing, including debt, liquidity,
capital allocation and pension planfunding
• Stockholder distributions (dividends
and stock repurchases)
• Information technology and
cybersecurity
• Certain legal, compliance and
regulatory matters• Executive compensation and CEO/senior
executive succession planning
• Annual and long-term incentive plans• Compensation plans and benefit programs• Non-employee director compensation• Social sustainability and talent
management, including DE+I; leadershipcompensation plans, benefit programs,recruiting and retention strategies anddevelopment progress; and employeeengagement• Board and Committee structure and
composition
• Director succession planning• Values and Ethics/Code of Conduct• Conflicts of interest and related person
transactions
• Governance, environmental sustainability
and community investment
• Certain legal, compliance and regulatory
matters
Management
• Day-to-day management of risks facing our businesses
34 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationThe Audit Committee oversees our internal control environment and evaluates the effectiveness of our internal
controls at least annually. Supplementing these processes, the Audit Committee regularly meets in executive session witheach of our CFO, Controller/CAO, Vice President of Internal Audit and representatives of our independent registeredpublic accounting firm and meets as needed in executive session with other members of management such as our CEOand CLO. The Governance Committee meets semiannually with our Chief Compliance Officer to discuss, among otherthings, the investigation of allegations reported to the GuideLine.
During 2021, our Board was particularly focused on the risk areas described below.
2021 Risk Focus Areas
•Impact of COVID-19 – Prioritizing safety and well-being of global team members, followed immediately by
delivering for customers. Among other things, COVID-19 response encompassed risks related to businesscontinuity; governmental regulations impacting manufacturing operations; cybersecurity and information
technology security in work-from-home environment for office-based employees; and finance matters such as
cash management and collections
•Delivering for customers – Managing constrained raw material, freight and labor availability and elevated lead
times to continue providing high-quality service to customers
•Inflation management – Offsetting impact of inflation through productivity and pricing
•Intelligent Labels – Further accelerating primary long-term profitable growth driver, including risks related to
acquisition and integration of Vestcom
•Innovation – Advancing innovation through strategic innovation platforms on material circularity and waste
reduction/elimination
•M&A – Being bolder to expand robust pipeline of acquisition opportunities, including evaluating risks related to
our acquisitions and integrations of Zippy Yum and JDC, as well as our venture investments, while maintainingour disciplined approach to capital allocation
•ESG – Heightening focus on ESG matters, resulting in more frequent and comprehensive disclosures contained in
our integrated sustainability and annual reports, proxy statements and ESG Downloads
•Sustainability – Increasing focus on more sustainable packaging, including strategies and risks related to the
strategic innovation platforms described above
•DE+I – Raising the bar to drive sustainable change with new 2030 goals and more robust global infrastructure
Risks Associated with Compensation Policies and Practices
As described in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis section of this proxy statement, we maintain best
practices in compensation that collectively encourage ongoing risk mitigation. The Compensation Committee annually
discusses with management and its independent compensation consultant, WTW, whether our executive compensation
programs are meeting the committee’s objectives. In addition, the Compensation Committee periodically engages WTWto undertake a more formal assessment of our compensation programs to ensure they do not provide incentives thatencourage our employees to take excessive risks in managing their respective businesses or functional areas. Thecommittee most recently conducted this evaluation in February 2022.
The Compensation Committee noted the risk-mitigating features of our compensation program described on the
following page.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 35Risk-Mitigating Compensation Features
Governance and
Oversight✓Compensation Committee has discretion to decrease Annual Incentive Plan (AIP) awards
and long-term incentive (LTI) grants to penalize potentially risky actions
✓Clawback policy deters fraud or other misconduct that results in financial restatement,
providing means to recoup inappropriately received AIP and LTI awards
✓Incentive compensation plan structure and targets are reviewed within context of market
practices, tied to operating business plans and corporate goals, and approved byCompensation Committee
✓Compensation Committee annually evaluates CEO/senior executive performance against
challenging strategic, financial and ESG goals
✓Rigorous stock ownership policy is consistent with best practices, with minimum
ownership level of 6x for CEO; requires net shares acquired to be retained untilcompliance is achieved
✓Officers prohibited from hedging or pledging company stock and required to engage in
stock transactions only during limited trading windows
Pay Philosophy
and Structure✓Focus on incenting stockholder value creation, balanced by retention and other
considerations
✓Substantial majority of leadership compensation delivered in long-term equity or cash-
based awards to motivate pursuit of superior performance and sustainable growth
✓Executive severance plans consistent with market practices, with double-trigger change of
control benefits and only for most senior NEOs
✓Incentive compensation designed to incent strong annual financial performance and long-
term economic and stockholder value creation, and balance growth and efficient capital
deployment
Incentive
Program Design✓AIP and LTI awards incent annual profitable growth and long-term financial value
creation, using multiple performance objectives
✓AIP awards not guaranteed, with below-threshold performance resulting in zero payout,
payments subject to overall cap of 200%, and NEO individual modifiers generally capped
at 100%
✓Equity awards use multiple performance objectives, vest over multiple time horizons and
are subject to threshold and maximum payout opportunities• Performance units (PUs) cliff vest at end of three years with payout for relative total
stockholder return (TSR) component capped at 100% of target if absolute TSR is
negative
• Market-leveraged stock units (MSUs) vest over one-, two-, three- and four-year
performance periods (average performance period of 2.5 years), with threshold
performance at absolute TSR of (15)% and target performance at absolute TSR of 10%
Given low risk in each of these categories and other factors, WTW advised the Compensation Committee that our
compensation program strikes an appropriate pay-risk balance and presents no risk-related concerns.
The Compensation Committee has concluded that our compensation policies and practices do not create risks that
are reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on our company.
DIRECTOR EDUCATION
Initial Orientation
Our initial director orientation generally covers (i) our performance and leadership; (ii) investor messaging; (iii) the
strategies, risks and mitigating strategies, and ESG priorities of our businesses; (iv) finance matters, including our financial
reporting policies and practices, internal control environment, internal audit deployment, tax planning and compliance,
and capital allocation; (v) legal and compliance matters, including our Board composition, governance policies andprocedures, Values and Ethics program, and ERM; (vi) executive compensation and talent management matters, includingsuccession planning, leadership development, DE+I and community investment; and (vii) information technology andcybersecurity.
36 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationContinuing Education
Our continuing director education program consists of periodic visits to our facilities and regular management
presentations regarding our business operations, performance, strategies and risk mitigation activities. We provideupdates on these topics to our Board during and between meetings throughout the year, and provide access to aboardroom news resource platform for them to keep informed of emerging best practices. We also reimburse directorswho attend continuing director education programs for fees and related expenses.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE EVALUATIONS
The Governance Committee oversees an annual performance evaluation of our Board, Chairman, Lead Independent
Director and Board Committees, including the Committee Chairs. As part of this process, our directors evaluate the
performance of their peers serving on the Board, providing candid feedback to enable continuous boardroom
improvement and assist with director succession planning . Our Board views the evaluation process as integral to
assessing its effectiveness and identifying improvement opportunities in the pursuit of continued excellence. We have
continually improved our Board processes as a result of this annual evaluation process, as shown below and on the
following page.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE EVALUATIONS
1
Process
• Written evaluations on Board/Committee
• Composition, including diversity of skills, qualifications and demographic backgrounds• Meeting materials
• Meeting mechanics and structure
• Fulfillment of responsibilities• Meeting content and conduct• Overall performance• Effectiveness of Chairman, Lead Independent Director and Committee Chairs
• One-on-one interviews with Governance Committee Chair to provide additional perspectives and discuss feedback
• Verbal peer reviews to identify potential improvement opportunities for individual directors
2
2021 Review of Results
• Discussion of evaluation results and feedback
• Chairman/CEO, Lead Independent Director/Governance Committee Chair, Corporate Secretary, and CLO• Joint Governance Committee and Board discussion in executive session with Chairman/CEO, aligning on improvement
opportunities for implementation
3
Recent Improvement Actions
• Sharpened focus on strategic and risk oversight , highlighting one business group during each Board meeting,
establishing mentorships between individual directors and key business leaders, and ensuring meeting discussions
prioritize discussion of challenges and opportunities rather than presentation of information
• Heightened focus on financial scenario planning, cybersecurity preparedness, ESG priorities and progress, and
compliance matters
• Enhanced discussion of M&A pipeline and potential targets , as well as performance of acquired companies and
integration learnings
• Expanded review of potential CEO successors and their development plans to ensure ready-now successors over
multiple time horizons and increased engagement with leaders below NEO level to enhance executive succession
planning and leadership development
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 37• Increased engagement on investor relations, stockholder engagement andcompetitive landscape to bring external
perspectives into boardroom
• Conducted annual post-investment reviews of returns on significant fixed capital expenditures, acquisitions and IT
investments
• Sharpened focus on director succession planning , selecting new Lead Independent Director, appointing new Chairs
for Audit and Governance Committees and refreshing Committee memberships; proactively aligning on steps to
mitigate impact of upcoming concentrated retirements; and focusing on software/digital/cybersecurity and materials
science industry expertise and increased Board diversity for future directors
• Increased Chairman/CEO engagement with directors between meetings , with frequent updates and one-on-one
discussions between him and each director, which were important in 2021 as we continued responding to COVID-19,mitigated related supply chain, labor, freight and inflationary challenges, advanced ESG focus and transparency, and
redoubled efforts to advance DE+I
• Refined Board schedule and meeting process to maintain robust dialogue despite move to primarily virtual meetings
given COVID-19, including establishing annual strategic discussion calendars, beginning each meeting in executive
session with Chairman/CEO, but no other members of management, to discuss key focus areas and frame meetingdiscussions; holding another such executive session to reflect on the meeting and align on key priorities, after whichour independent directors meet in executive session without our Chairman/CEO; and planning to hold certain
Committee meetings off-cycle (not coincident with Board meetings) and future Board meetings as a mix of virtual and
in-person meetings given equally high level of engagement and discussion in both formats
STOCKHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
We value stockholder feedback on our governance program and we actively solicit input through stockholder
engagement to ensure that we reflect not only our evolving business strategies but also the expectations of ourstakeholders. In addition to our extensive investor relations program through which members of management engage
with our investors throughout the year, this supplemental engagement program is depicted – and the feedback we
received on governance matters is described – in the proxy summary.
CONTACTING OUR BOARD
Our Board welcomes feedback from all our stockholders. We review correspondence submitted by stockholders,
discussing feedback received with senior management and/or our Board as appropriate.
Stockholders and other interested parties may contact our Board, Chairman, Lead Independent Director, any
Committee Chair, or any other individual director concerning business matters by writing to Board of Directors (orparticular Board subgroup or individual director), c/o Corporate Secretary, 8080 Norton Parkway, Mentor, Ohio 44060.
38 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationITEM 1 – ELECTION OF DIRECTORS
Our Bylaws provide for a Board of between 8 and 12 directors, with the exact number fixed by resolution of our
Board. Our Board has fixed the current number of directors at 9. In February 2022, director Mark Barrenechea notified ourBoard of his decision not to stand for reelection at the 2022 Annual Meeting so he can focus on other endeavors; as a
result, our Board expects that it will fix the number of directors at 8 in April 2022 assuming that all nominees are
reelected. All nominees are standing for election for a one-year term expiring at the 2023 Annual Meeting.
In voting for the election of directors, each share has one vote for each position to be filled and there is no cumulative
voting. Each of our nominees is presently serving on our Board and has consented to being named in this proxy statementand serving if elected by stockholders.
Majority Voting Standard; Unelected Director Resignation Requirement
Our Bylaws provide for the approval by a majority of votes cast for the election of directors in uncontested elections
like this one and require that an incumbent director who is not reelected tender his or her resignation from our Board. Our
Board, excluding the tendering director, is required to determine whether to accept the resignation – taking into account
the recommendation of the Governance Committee and any other factors it considers appropriate – and publicly discloseits decision regarding the tendered resignation, including the rationale for its decision, within 90 days from the dateelection results are certified. In contested elections, plurality voting is the standard for the election of directors.
Recommendation of Board of Directors
Our Board of Directors recommends that you vote FOR each of our 8 director nominees . The persons named as
proxies will vote for their election, unless you specify otherwise. If any director nominee were to become unavailable prior
to the Annual Meeting, your proxy would be voted for a substitute nominee designated by our Board or we would
decrease the size of our Board.
SELECTION OF DIRECTOR NOMINEES
Director nominees are generally recommended by the Governance Committee for nomination by our Board and
election by our stockholders. Director nominees may also be recommended by the Governance Committee forappointment to our Board, with their election by stockholders taking place at the next Annual Meeting. Our director
nominees reflect a balance and diversity of skills, qualifications and demographic backgrounds, as shown in the
Board matrix contained in the proxy summary, that allows them to effectively discharge their oversightresponsibilities.
In evaluating whether to recommend a new or incumbent director nominee, the Governance Committee primarily
uses the criteria in our Governance Guidelines, which are described below.
•Independence , to ensure substantial majority of Board remains independent
•Business and leadership experience , including industry experience and global exposure and considering
factors such as size, scope and complexity
•Board service at other U.S. publicly-traded companies
•Experience in finance, accounting and/or executive compensation
• For incumbent directors, attendance andcompliance with our stock ownership policy
•Time commitments , including service on other boards; any new directors joining our Board who are executive
officers of a public company may not serve on more than one other public company Board
• Potential conflicts of interest
•Demographic characteristics (including, without limitation, gender, race and ethnicity); when evaluating new
nominees, the committee will seek to consider (and ask any search firm engaged to provide) candidates that
include highly qualified women and individuals from underrepresented communities
• Ability to contribute to oversight, governance and sustainability of our company
• Ability to represent balanced interests of all stockholders, as well as the interests of our other stakeholders ,
rather than those of any special interest group
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 39For incumbent directors, the Governance Committee also considers their contributions to our Board and Committees,
mandatory retirement dates to assist with director succession planning, and feedback received during our annual Boardevaluation process. The Governance Committee does not assign specific weights to the criteria and no particular criterionis necessarily applicable to all nominees.
The Governance Committee reviews the skills, qualifications and demographic background of any candidate with
those of our current directors to assess how our Board can most effectively fulfill its oversight responsibilities. Sources foridentifying potential nominees include current Board members, senior management, executive search firms and investors.
Stockholder Submission of Director Nominees
Advance Notice Nominees
Stockholders may recommend director candidates by submitting the candidate’s name, together with his or her
biographical information, professional experience and written consent to nomination, to Governance Committee Chair, c/oCorporate Secretary, 8080 Norton Parkway, Mentor, Ohio 44060. To be considered at the 2023 Annual Meeting, advance
notice stockholder nominations must comply with the requirements described in the Voting and Meeting Q&A section of
this proxy statement. The Governance Committee considers stockholder nominees on the same basis as it considers allother nominees.
Proxy Access Nominees
A stockholder, or a group of no more than 20 stockholders, owning at least 3% of our company’s stock continuously
for at least three years is permitted to submit director nominees (up to 20% of the Board) for inclusion in our proxymaterials, subject to the requirements described in our Bylaws. For information on submitting proxy access nominees for
the 2023 Annual Meeting, please refer to the Voting and Meeting Q&A section of this proxy statement.
BOARD REFRESHMENT AND DIRECTOR SUCCESSION PLANNING
Our Board’s ongoing director succession planning is designed to ensure an independent, well-qualified Board, with
diversity in skills, qualifications and demographic backgrounds that enables effective independent oversight and alignswith our business strategies and ESG priorities.
No Term Limits
Our Governance Guidelines reflect our Board’s belief that directors should not be subject to term limits. While term
limits could help facilitate new viewpoints being brought to the boardroom, our Board believes they could also result inthe premature loss of a director who over a period of time has gained valuable experience and is continuing tosignificantly contribute to Board deliberations assessing our strategies, operations, risks and mitigating strategies, andESG priorities and progress. We believe that our Board’s decision not to establish term limits at this time is consistent
with the prevailing practice among companies in the S&P 500 .
Our Board recognizes that certain governance stakeholders have suggested that longer-serving directors may have
decreased independence and objectivity. However, our Board believes that, except as required by our mandatory
retirement policy arbitrarily removing knowledgeable directors and losing the oversight consistency they bring,
particularly during periods of executive management change, such as our new President and COO, the new leaders forour RBIS Apparel Solutions and IHM businesses, and our CHRO and CLO elected in 2020 weighs against implementingterm limits at this time. Ultimately, our Board believes it is responsible for establishing appropriate board refreshmentpolicies in light of our strategies, financial position and ESG priorities at any particular time, exercising its discretion in the
best interest of our company and stockholders. To assist in discharging this responsibility, in November 2021 and
February 2022, the Governance Committee reviewed the skills, qualifications and demographic backgrounds of our
Board members and conducted director succession planning to ensure that our Board continues to meet the needs ofour businesses, align with our strategies and advance the interests of all our stakeholders.
40 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationPolicies and Events Supporting Regular Board Refreshment
Our Board has adopted the policies described below to facilitate regular refreshment and ensure that it continues to
independently oversee and challenge our management team.
Policy Description Events Occurring at or Since 2021 Annual Meeting
Mandatory Resignation
PolicyIncumbent directors not elected by stockholders
must tender their resignationAll incumbent directors standing for election were
elected at the 2021 Annual Meeting
Mandatory Retirement
PolicyDirectors must retire on date of annual meeting
of stockholders that follows their reaching age72; no exemptions or waivers allowed orgrantedPeter Barker retired under this policy on the date of the
2021 Annual Meeting
Resignation Tendered
Upon Change in
Principal EmploymentDirectors who change their principal
occupation, position or responsibility mustvolunteer to resignNo directors changed their principal employment since
the 2021 Annual Meeting
Prior Notice Requirement
to Prevent OverboardingDirectors must give prior notice before
accepting another U.S. public companydirectorship so that his/her ability to fulfill Boardresponsibilities may be evaluated if he/sheserves on more than four other such boardsNo directors joined another U.S. public company board
since the 2021 Annual Meeting
Upon the recommendation of the Governance Committee, Messrs. Barrenechea and Lopez were appointed to our
Board as independent directors in September 2018 and February 2017, respectively. In connection with his becoming ourCEO, Mr. Butier joined our Board in May 2016. Mr. Barker retired from our Board in April 2021 and Mr. Barrenechea will
leave our Board in April 2022. We believe that this recent experience with both joining and departing directors
demonstrates our Board’s commitment to regular refreshment.
Both the Governance Committee and our full Board plan to regularly discuss director succession planning in 2022 to
mitigate the impact of upcoming concentrated retirements, develop a candidate profile for one or more new directorsthat would both complement and advance the skills and qualifications currently represented on our Board, and further
enhance Board diversity.
DIRECTOR DIVERSITY
Our Board supports and reflects our values, recognizing the benefits of diversity in the boardroom, including the
healthy debate that results from different viewpoints that may stem from diverse backgrounds.
Age and Tenure
The average age of our director nominees is 63, which is consistent with the average director age in the S&P 500 and
within the 60 to 63-year band in which the plurality of these companies fall. The average tenure of our director nomineesis 11
1⁄2years; were it not for our most recently appointed director’s decision not to stand for reelection, our average
tenure of 101⁄2years would have been comparable to the average tenure for companies in the S&P 500, the majority of
which have average tenure of six to ten years. Our director nominees reflect a balance between newer directors whobring fresh ideas and insights and longer-serving directors with deep institutional knowledge of our Board and company.
Director Nominee
Age and Tenure
50-59
60-68
69+AVG.
63 YEARSAge Tenure
5-10
11-14
15+AVG.
11½ YEARS
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 41Demographic Background
Our Governance Guidelines reflect that the Governance Committee’s assessment of director candidates includes
consideration of their demographic backgrounds, including, without limitation, race, gender and ethnicity. Although wehave no formal policy regarding the consideration of diversity in selecting director nominees, the Governance Committeeseeks to recommend individuals with a broad diversity of experience, skill, geographic representation and demographicbackground. While diversity is a consideration and area of focus in recommending future nominees, a given nomineewould not be chosen or excluded solely or primarily on that basis; rather, the Governance Committee would focus on anoverall candidate profile that would complement our existing Board in light of the diverse and global nature of ourbusinesses and operations. When evaluating new nominees, the Governance Committee will seek to consider (and ask
any search firm engaged to provide) candidates that include highly qualified women and individuals from
underrepresented communities; 2 of our 4 most recently appointed independent directors increased the racial, ethnicor gender diversity on our Board.
Director Nominee Diversity
From
Underrepresented
Communities
38%
Female
25%~63%
DIVERSE
2022 DIRECTOR NOMINEES
The following pages provide information on the directors nominated for election, including his or her age, current
Board roles, and business experience during at least the past five years. We also indicate the name of any other U.S.public company board on which each nominee currently serves or has served during the past five years.
We also present each nominee’s experience and qualifications that led our Board to conclude that he or she should
serve as a director, which includes senior leadership experience, industry expertise, global exposure, U.S. public companyboard experience, and/or financial expertise as defined in the Board matrix shown in the proxy summary. Each nominee
also has demonstrated the ability to exercise sound judgment, fulfill the time commitments necessary to serve on our
Board and advance the long-term interests of our stockholders, as well as those of our other stakeholders .
42 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationANDRES A. LOPEZ
Age 59
Director since February 2017
IndependentRECENT BUSINESS EXPERIENCE
O-I Glass, Inc., a glass container manufacturer andsupplier to food and beverage brands
• President & CEO since January 2016• COO & President, Glass Containers, from
February 2015 to December 2015
• President, O-I Americas, from July 2014 to
January 2015
• President, O-I Latin America, from April 2009
to July 2014
BOARD ROLES
Audit Committee Member
OTHER PUBLIC COMPANY BOARDS
Current:
O-I Glass, Inc.
Past Five Years:
NoneSELECT SKILLS AND QUALIFICATIONS
Senior leadership experience
• Oversees company with $6.4 billion in
revenues and more than 24,000 employeesin 2021
Industry expertise and global exposure
• Leads multinational packaging company in
food and beverage segment of consumergoods industry into which our LGM business
sells
• Led Latin America and Americas divisions,
after having worked in positions of increasingresponsibility throughout the region
U.S. public company board experience
• Concurrent service on one other board
ANTHONY K. ANDERSON
Age 66
Director since December 2012IndependentRECENT BUSINESS EXPERIENCE
Ernst & Young LLP, an assurance, tax, transactionand advisory services firm
• Vice Chair, Managing Partner and Member of
Executive Board from 2000 to March 2012
BOARD ROLES
Audit Committee Member
Governance Committee Member
OTHER PUBLIC COMPANY BOARDS
Current:
AAR CorporationExelon CorporationMarsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.
Past Five Years:
First American Financial CorporationSELECT SKILLS AND QUALIFICATIONS
Senior leadership experience
• Served on executive board of Ernst & Young
for 12 years, and as managing partner ofMidwest and Pacific Southwest regions
Financial expertise
• 45+ years of financial statement and internal
control expertise acquired through auditingglobal public companies
• Substantial experience advising audit
committees of large multinationalcorporations
• Certified public accountant (now inactive)
U.S. public company board experience
• Concurrent service on three other boards and
prior service on other boards
BRADLEY A. ALFORD
Age 65
Director since April 2010IndependentRECENT BUSINESS EXPERIENCE
Nestlé USA, a nutrition, health and wellnesscompany
• Chairman & CEO from January 2006 to
October 2012
Nestlé Brands Company, an operating unit of Nestlé
USA
• President & CEO from 2003 to December
2005
BOARD ROLES
Compensation Committee MemberGovernance Committee Member
OTHER PUBLIC COMPANY BOARDS
Current:
Perrigo Company PLC
Past Five Years:
Conagra Brands, Inc.SELECT SKILLS AND QUALIFICATIONS
Senior leadership experience
• Led company then with over $12 billion in
annual revenues and more than 26,000employees
Industry expertise and global exposure
• 41+ years in consumer goods industry• Knowledge of food and beverage segments
into which our LGM business sells
• Substantial M&A and integration experience
U.S. public company board experience
• Concurrent service on one other board and
prior service on other boards
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 43JULIA A. STEWART
Age 66
Director since January 2003
IndependentRECENT BUSINESS EXPERIENCE
Alurx, Inc., a health and wellness company
• Founder, Chair & CEO since January 2020
Dine Brands Global, Inc. (formerly DineEquity, Inc.),
owner, operator and franchisor of IHOP andApplebee’s restaurants
• Chairman & CEO from June 2008 to March
2017
BOARD ROLES
Compensation Committee ChairGovernance Committee Member
OTHER PUBLIC COMPANY BOARDS
Current:
Bite Acquisition Corp.
Past Five Years:
Dine Brands Global, Inc.SELECT SKILLS AND QUALIFICATIONS
Senior leadership experience
• Led company then with over $600 million in
annual revenues and nearly 1,000 employees
Industry expertise and global exposure
• Substantial operational and marketing
experience in retail/dining industry
• Expertise in brand positioning, risk
assessment, financial reporting andgovernance
U.S. public company board experience
• Concurrent service on one other board and
prior service on other boards
KEN C. HICKS
Age 69
Director since July 2007IndependentRECENT BUSINESS EXPERIENCE
Academy Sports + Outdoors, a sports andrecreation retailer
• Chairman, President & CEO since May 2018
Foot Locker, Inc., a specialty athletic retailer
• Executive Chairman from December 2014 to
May 2015
• Chairman, President & CEO from February
2010 to November 2014
• President & CEO from August 2009 to
February 2010
BOARD ROLES
Compensation Committee Member
OTHER PUBLIC COMPANY BOARDS
Current:
Academy Sports + Outdoors
Past Five Years:
Whole Foods CorporationSELECT SKILLS AND QUALIFICATIONS
Senior leadership experience
• Leads company with more than 250 U.S.
locations, over $5 billion in annualrevenues and more than 23,000employees
Industry expertise
• 34+ years of senior marketing and
operational experience in retail industryinto which our RBIS business sells
U.S. public company board experience
• Concurrent service on one other board
and prior service on other boards
MARTHA N. SULLIVAN
Age 65
Director since February 2013
IndependentRECENT BUSINESS EXPERIENCE
Sensata Technologies Holding PLC, a supplier of
sensors and controls
• President & CEO from January 2013 to
March 2020
• President & COO from September 2010 to
December 2012
• COO from April 2006 to August 2010
Texas Instruments, Inc., Sensata’s predecessor
entity
• Vice President of Sensor Products from 1997
to 2006
BOARD ROLES
Audit Committee Chair
OTHER PUBLIC COMPANY BOARDS
Current:
Sensata Technologies Holding PLC
Past Five Years:
Goldman Sachs Acquisition Holding Company
Corp IISELECT SKILLS AND QUALIFICATIONS
Senior leadership experience
• Led company then with approximately
$3.5 billion in revenues and more than21,000 employees
Industry expertise and global exposure
• Oversaw all business segments, global
operations and strategic planning
• Strong technology background, including
experience overseeing an RFID business
U.S. public company board experience
• Concurrent service on one other board and
prior service on another board
44 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationMITCHELL R. BUTIER
Age 50
Director since April 2016Not IndependentRECENT BUSINESS EXPERIENCE
Avery Dennison Corporation
• Chairman & CEO since March 2022• Chairman, President & CEO from April 2019
to February 2022
• President & CEO from May 2016 to April
2019
• President & COO from November 2014 to
April 2016
• Senior Vice President & CFO from June 2010
to October 2014; continued serving as CFOuntil March 2015
• Vice President, Global Finance & Chief
Accounting Officer from March 2007 to May2010
BOARD ROLESChairman
OTHER PUBLIC COMPANY BOARDS
Current:
None
Past Five Years:
NoneSELECT SKILLS AND QUALIFICATIONS
Senior leadership experience
• Held roles of increasing responsibility at our
company, including CAO, CFO, COO and
CEO
Industry expertise and global exposure
• Served in positions in our primary business
segments, including international
assignments in Europe, gaining packaging,industrial goods and materials scienceindustry expertise
Financial expertise
• Served as CAO for 3 years and CFO for 5
years
PATRICK T. SIEWERT
Age 66
Director since April 2005IndependentRECENT BUSINESS EXPERIENCE
The Carlyle Group, a global alternative investmentfirm
• Managing Director and Partner since April
2007
The Coca-Cola Company, a beverage company
• Executive Committee member and Group
President, Asia, from August 2001 to March2007
BOARD ROLES
Lead Independent DirectorGovernance Committee Chair
Audit Committee Member
OTHER PUBLIC COMPANY BOARDS
Current:
Mondele ¯ z International, Inc.
Past Five Years:
NoneSELECT SKILLS AND QUALIFICATIONS
Industry expertise and global exposure
• Led division of global consumer goods
company in beverage segment of consumer
goods industry into which our LGM business
sells
• Work experience, citizenship and residency
in Asia, region in which we generatesubstantial amount of sales and majority ofour employees is located
Financial expertise
• Advises on investments in consumer goods
businesses globally, particularly in Asia
U.S. public company board experience
• Concurrent service on one other board
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 45DIRECTOR COMPENSATION
In recommending non-employee director compensation to our Board with the independent expert advice of WTW,
the Compensation Committee seeks to target compensation at the median of similarly sized companies with which we
compete for director talent. Compensation is reviewed periodically (generally every three years) to ensure market
competitiveness and consistency. The majority of compensation is delivered in equity to align director interests with
those of our stockholders.
Median Target Compensation
The components of our non-employee director compensation program are summarized in the charts below and
described thereafter.
NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR COMPENSATION
$280K Cash RetainerCharitable Match
RSUsTarget Grant Date Fair Value of Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) $170,000
Cash Retainer $100,000Match of Charitable/Educational Contributions $ 10,000Additional Cash Retainer for Lead Independent Director $ 30,000Additional Cash Retainer for Audit Committee Chair $ 25,000Additional Cash Retainer for Compensation Committee Chair $ 20,000Additional Cash Retainer for Governance Committee Chair $ 20,000
Our 2017 Incentive Award Plan, under which RSUs are granted to our non-employee directors, limits the sum of the
grant date fair value of equity awards and the amount of any cash compensation granted to any non-employee directorduring any calendar year to $600,000. In 2021, all non-employee directors except for our Lead Independent Director/
Governance Committee Chair and our Audit Committee Chair received less than half of this maximum compensation
amount.
Compensation Setting
In February 2021, at the Compensation Committee’s request, its independent compensation consultant analyzed
trends in non-employee director compensation and assessed the competitiveness of the components of our program,
including total cash compensation (Board and Committee Chair retainers), annual equity grant, charitable match, total
direct compensation (annual cash plus equity), our stock ownership policy and the additional retainer for our LeadIndependent Director.
Using benchmark data from public filings of companies ranked in the Fortune 350-500, WTW recommended that the
additional cash retainers for our Audit, Compensation and Governance Committee Chairs each increase by $5,000 andthe target grant date fair value of our annual equity grant to non-employee directors increase by $15,000. Modestlyincreasing the annual equity grant would bring total direct compensation for regular Board service to $270,000 (or
$280,000 with the charitable match), the projected median of Fortune 350-500 companies in 2024, the next time the
Compensation Committee plans to review non-employee director compensation. Giving consideration to, among otherthings, the advice of WTW, the Compensation Committee recommended to our Board that the additional cash retainersfor our Audit, Compensation and Governance Committee Chairs be increased to $25,000, $20,000 and $20,000,respectively, and the target grant date fair value of RSUs granted annually to our non-employee directors be increased to
$170,000.
Based on the recommendation of the Compensation Committee and further discussion, our Board approved the
revised non-employee director compensation program, effective as of the date of the 2021 Annual Meeting.
46 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationStock Ownership Policy
Our stock ownership policy requires non-employee directors to own $500,000 of our company stock, 50% of which
must be held in vested shares. Only shares owned directly or in a trust, deferred stock units (DSUs) and unvested RSUs,which are subject only to time-based vesting, count for these purposes. Our non-employee directors are prohibited fromhedging or pledging our common stock.
All of our non-employee directors have achieved the minimum ownership required by our stock ownership policy;
average non-employee director ownership was ~12x the required level at year-end 2021 . Based on our review of
their written representations in our 2021 director questionnaire, none of our non-employee directors has hedged or
pledged our common stock.
Equity Compensation
The 2021 equity grant to non-employee directors consisted of RSUs that vest on the one-year anniversary of the
grant date, consistent with the one-year term to which directors are elected. Unvested RSUs (i) fully vest upon a director’sdeath, disability, retirement from our Board after reaching age 72 or termination of service within 24 months after achange of control and (ii) are cancelled in the event a director voluntarily resigns, is not reelected by stockholders or isotherwise asked to leave our Board, unless otherwise determined by the Compensation Committee. On May 1, 2021,
each of our then-serving non-employee directors was granted 792 RSUs with a grant date fair value of $167,809.
In connection with his mandatory retirement from our Board on the date of the 2021 Annual Meeting and as
permitted by our 2017 Incentive Award Plan, the Compensation Committee determined to accelerate the vesting of the
RSUs granted to Peter Barker in May 2020 that were scheduled to vest a few days after his separation from our Board. In
making its determination, the Compensation Committee noted that Mr. Barker had served nearly the entire one-year termfor which he had been elected by our stockholders.
Deferrable Cash Compensation
Cash retainers are paid semiannually and prorated for any director’s partial service during the year. Directors are also
reimbursed for travel expenses incurred to attend Board meetings and continuing director education events.
Our non-employee directors may choose to receive this compensation in (i) cash, either paid directly or deferred into
an account under our Directors Variable Deferred Compensation Program (DVDCP), which accrues earnings at the rate of
return of certain bond and equity investment funds managed by a third party; (ii) DSUs credited to an individual accountpursuant to our Directors Deferred Equity Compensation Program (DDECP); or (iii) a combination of cash and DSUs.None of our non-employee directors participates in the DVDCP and 7 of them currently participate in the DDECP.Dividend equivalents, representing the value of dividends per share paid on shares of our common stock calculated with
reference to the number of DSUs held as of a dividend record date, are reinvested on the applicable payable date in the
form of additional DSUs credited to the accounts of directors participating in the DDECP. When a director participating inthe DDECP ceases serving as a director, the dollar value of the DSUs in his or her account is divided by the closing priceof our common stock on the last date of the director’s service, with the resulting number of shares of our common stockissued to the director.
Charitable Match
We match up to $10,000 per year of each non-employee director’s documented contributions to charitable
organizations or educational institutions.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 47DIRECTOR COMPENSATION TABLE
NameFees
Earned
or Paid
in Cash(1)Stock
Awards(2)All Other
Compensation(3) Total
Bradley A. Alford $100,000 $167,809 $10,000 $277,809
Anthony A. Anderson $100,000 $167,809 — $267,809
Peter K. Barker(4) —— — —
Mark J. Barrenechea $100,000 $167,809 — $267,809
Ken C. Hicks $100,000 $167,809 $10,000 $277,809
Andres A. Lopez $100,000 $167,809 — $267,809
Patrick T. Siewert $150,000 $167,809 $10,000 $327,809
Julia A. Stewart $120,000 $167,809 $10,000 $297,808
Martha N. Sullivan $125,000 $167,809 $10,000 $302,809
(1) Mr. Butier does not appear in the table because he serves as CEO of our company and does not receive any additional compensation to serve as director or
Chairman. Amounts represent retainers earned as shown in the table below. At their election, the following currently-serving directors deferred th eir cash
compensation through the DDECP, with the indicated following number of DSUs in their accounts as of January 1, 2022, the last day of our 2021 fiscal year :
Mr. Alford – 20,575; Mr. Anderson – 11,895; Mr. Barrenechea – 2,356; Mr. Hicks – 14,808; Mr. Lopez – 1,275; Ms. Stewart – 41,829; and Ms. Sullivan – 12,067 .
Mr. Barker’s DDECP account was paid out to him in shares of our common stock after he left our Board in April 2021 in accordance with program terms.
Director Board Leadership Roles Board Retainer Committee Chair Retainer Lead Director Retainer
Alford $100,000 — —
Anderson $100,000 — —
Barker —— —
Barrenechea $100,000 — —
Hicks $100,000 — —
Lopez $100,000 — —
Siewert Lead Independent Director,
Governance Committee Chair $100,000 $20,000 $30,000
Stewart Compensation Committee Chair $100,000 $20,000 —
Sullivan Audit Committee Chair $100,000 $25,000 —
(2) Amounts reflect the grant date fair value of 792 RSUs granted on May 1, 2021 in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification Topic 718, Compensat ion,
Stock Compensation) (ASC 718). Fair value was determined based on the fair market value of our common stock on the grant date, adjusted for foregonedividends, of $211.88. Each non-employee director serving as of January 1, 2022 held 792 unvested RSUs.
(3) Amounts reflect our match of documented director contributions made to charitable organizations or educational institutions.
(4) Mr. Barker retired from the Board on the date of our 2021 Annual Meeting. Although he served as a non-employee director for four months of the year, hereceived no cash fees during this time since fees for the second half of a non-employee director’s term are paid in December of the previous year. In addi tion, he
received no stock awards during the year, which are granted only to elected directors after the date of the Annual Meeting. However, in connection with his
mandatory retirement from our Board on the date of the 2021 Annual Meeting and as permitted by our 2017 Incentive Award Plan, the Compensation
Committee determined to accelerate Mr. Barker’s RSUs granted in May 2020 that were scheduled to vest a few days after his separation from our Board. Inaccelerating the vesting, the Compensation Committee noted that he had served nearly the entire one-year term for which he had been elected by stockho lders.
48 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationITEM 2 — ADVISORY VOTE TO APPROVE EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
After considering the voting results of the advisory vote on the frequency of our say-on-pay vote at the 2017 Annual
Meeting, our Board determined to hold say-on-pay votes annually, at least until the next advisory vote on the frequencyof our say-on-pay vote (which will take place at the 2023 Annual Meeting).
The advisory vote is a vote to approve the compensation of our NEOs, as described in the Compensation Discussion
and Analysis and Executive Compensation Tables sections of this proxy statement. It is not a vote on our general
compensation policies or any specific element of compensation, the compensation of our non-employee directors, ourCEO pay ratio, or the features of our compensation program designed to prevent excessive risk-taking as described in the
Risks Associated with Compensation Policies and Practices section of this proxy statement.
Recommendation of Board of Directors
We are committed to maintaining ongoing engagement with our stockholders to seek their feedback and discuss why
we believe our executive compensation program aligns with our strategies and incents our leaders to deliver strongfinancial performance and consistent ESG progress, creating superior long-term, sustainable value for our customers,
employees, investors and communities. Our Board recommends that you vote FOR approval, on an advisory basis, of
our executive compensation . Properly dated and signed proxies will be so voted unless you specify otherwise.
Meaning of Advisory Vote
The results of the advisory vote are not binding on our Board. However, in accordance with SEC regulations, the
Compensation Committee will disclose its consideration of the results of the vote in the Compensation Discussion and
Analysis section of our 2023 proxy statement.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 49TALENT AND COMPENSATION COMMITTEE REPORT
The Talent and Compensation Committee (referred to in this report as the “Committee”) of our Board of Directors has
reviewed and discussed the Compensation Discussion and Analysis (CD&A) required by Item 402(b) of Regulation S-Kwith management and, based on its review and those discussions, has recommended to our Board of Directors that the
CD&A be included in our 2022 proxy statement and incorporated by reference into our 2021 Annual Report on
Form 10-K.
The Committee welcomes feedback regarding our executive compensation program. Stockholders may communicate
with the Committee by writing to the Talent and Compensation Committee Chair, c/o Corporate Secretary, 8080 Norton
Parkway, Mentor, Ohio 44060.
Julia A. Stewart, Chair
Bradley A. Alford
Mark J. Barrenechea
Ken C. Hicks
50 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationCOMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (CD&A)
This CD&A* describes our executive compensation program and the decisions of our Board’s Talent and
Compensation Committee (referred to in this CD&A as the “Committee”) on 2021 executive compensation. It includes thesections shown below.
Executive Summary 51
Business Strategy Overview 51
Delivering Financial Targets 53
2021 Financial Performance 53
Effective Capital Allocation 54
TSR Outperformance 55
2021 Say-on-Pay Vote and Feedback During Stockholder Engagement 55
Strong ESG-Executive Compensation Linkage 56
2021 Named Executive Officers (NEOs) 57Overview of Pay Philosophy and Executive Compensation Components 57
Change in Approach to CEO Compensation 59
Strong Compensation Governance Practices 60
Summary of Compensation Decisions for 2021 61
Discussion of Compensation Components and Decisions Impacting 2021 Executive Compensation 63
Base Salary 63
2021 AIP Awards 63
2021 Grants of LTI Awards 68
2021 Vesting of Previously Granted LTI Awards 71
Perquisites 72
General Benefits 73
Severance Benefits 74
Compensation-Setting Tools 75
Independent Oversight and Expertise 75Other Considerations 77
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Business Strategy Overview
We have consistently executed our business strategies, delivering long-term, sustainable value for our
employees, customers and investors and improving the communities in which we operate . From our investors’
perspective, we believe that this value is best measured by our total stockholder return (TSR) and cumulative economic
value added (EVA), both of which are performance objectives used in our long-term incentive (LTI) program and informhow we set our goals for sales growth, operating margin improvement, asset efficiency, return on total capital (ROTC)and capital allocation.
Our key strategies and 2021 achievements are shown on the following page. Our overriding focus remains on
ensuring the long-term success of all of our stakeholders, and we have a clear set of strategies to deliver for them.
* This CD&A contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-lookin g statements are
subject to certain risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from the results, performance or achievements exp ressed or implied
thereby. For a detailed discussion of these risks, see Part I, Item 1a, “Risk Factors” and Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Fin ancial Condition
and Results of Operations,” in our 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on February 23, 2022 with the SEC (our “2021 Annual Report”). Stockholders sho uld note
that statements contained in this CD&A regarding our company and business performance targets and goals should not be interpreted as management’s ex pectations,
estimates of results or other guidance.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 511
Drive outsized growth in high-value categories
• We seek to increase the proportion of our portfolio in high-value products and solutions, both organically and through
acquisitions; high-value categories serve markets that are growing faster than GDP, represent large pools of potentialprofit and leverage our core capabilities. These products and solutions include our specialty and durable label
materials, graphics and reflective solutions, industrial tapes, Intelligent Labels that use RFID tags and inlays, external
embellishments, and, with our recent acquisition of Vestcom, shelf-edge pricing, productivity and consumerengagement solutions.
• In 2021, we achieved organic sales change in high-value product categories that outpaced that of our base
businesses by a high-single digit rate driven by growth in specialty labels, external embellishments and Intelligent
Labels; added to our capabilities and expanded our position in high-value product categories through our acquisitionof Vestcom; and more than tripled the size of our Intelligent Labels platform over the last five years, reaching net salesof $0.7 billion in 2021
2
Grow profitability in our base businesses
• We strive to grow profitability in our base businesses by carefully balancing volume, price and mix, reducing
complexity and tailoring our go-to-market strategies
• In 2021, we heightened our focus on material reengineering to drive productivity and mitigate the impact of rising
input costs
3
Focus relentlessly on productivity
• We employ product reengineering and enterprise lean sigma to expand our margins, enhance our competitiveness
(particularly in our base businesses) and provide a funding source for reinvestment
• In 2021, we continued expanding operating margins, with approximately $65 million in savings from restructuring, net
of transition costs
4
Allocate capital effectively
• We balance our investments in organic growth, productivity, and acquisitions and venture investments, while
continuing to return cash to stockholders through dividends and share repurchases
• In 2021, leveraging our strong balance sheet, we invested $272.1 million in fixed and IT capital expenditures to
support organic growth; completed three acquisitions and made three venture investments for a total of $1.48 billion;increased our quarterly dividend rate by ~10%; and repurchased $180.9 million in shares of our common stock
5
Lead in an environmentally and socially responsible manner
• We aim to deliver innovations that advance the circular economy and reduce the environmental impact of our
operations; build a more diverse workforce and inclusive and equitable culture; maintain operations that promotehealth and safety; and support our communities through contributions from the Avery Dennison Foundation (ADF),
supplemented by contributions from our company
• In 2021, we continued to make progress toward our 2025 sustainability goals, reducing the environmental impact of
our operations and investing in strategic innovation platforms focused on material circularity and waste reduction/elimination; continuing to drive sustainable change in diversity, equity and inclusion (DE+I), with a sharpened focus on
increasing workforce racial/ethnic diversity, as well as representation from other underrepresented communities such
as LGBTQ+, veteran or disabled individuals; and using the $10 million we contributed to ADF in 2020 to significantlyincrease grant-making in our communities, resulting in over $6 million of charitable contributions from ADF and ourcompany in 2021. We also announced more ambitious 2030 sustainability goals.
52 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationDelivering Financial Targets
Our objective is to deliver GDP+ growth and top-quartile returns on capital to create superior value over the long
term. In March 2017, we announced five-year financial targets through 2021. As shown below, we exceeded each of
these commitments we made to our investors.
Sales change ex. currency, organic sales change, adjusted EPS and ROTC, including and excluding acquisition
amortization – as well as free cash flow and adjusted EBITDA margin, which are referenced later in this CD&A – arenon-GAAP financial measures we provide investors to assist them in assessing our performance and operating trends.
These non-GAAP financial measures are not a substitute for or superior to progress toward the comparable financial
measures under GAAP and are defined, qualified and reconciled from GAAP in the last section of this proxy statement.
For the 2017-2021 period, on a five-year compound annual basis (with 2016 as the base period), GAAP reported
net sales, net income and EPS increased by 6.7%, 18.2% and 20.1%, respectively.
2017-2021 Targets 2017-2021 Results(1)
Sales Growth(2)5%+ ex. currency(3)
4%+ organic6.6% ex. currency
4.6% organic
GAAP Operating Margin 11%+ in 2021 12.6% in 2021
Adjusted EPS Growth(2) 10%+ 17.3%
ROTC incl. Acquisition Amortization 17%+ in 2021 18.4% in 2021
EXCEEDED 2017-2021 FINANCIAL TARGETS
(1) Results for non-GAAP measures are reconciled from GAAP in the last section of this proxy statement.
(2) Percentages for targets and results reflect five-year compound annual growth rates, with 2016 as the
base period.
(3) Target for sales growth ex. currency reflects the impact of completed acquisitions as of March 2017 ofapproximately one point.
In March 2021, we announced five-year financial targets through 2025. As shown below, based on the first year of
this five-year period, we are on track to achieve these commitments.
In 2021 (with 2020 as the base period), GAAP reported net sales, net income and EPS increased by 20.6%,
33.1% and 33.6%, respectively.
2021-2025 Targets 2021 Results(1)
Sales Growth(2) 5%+ ex. currency(3)18.6% ex. currency
15.6% organic
Adjusted EBITDA Margin 16%+ in 2025 15.6% in 2021
Adjusted EPS Growth(2) 10% 25%
ROTC excl. Acquisition Amortization 18%+ in 2025 19.1% in 2021
ON TRACK TO ACHIEVE 2021-2025 FINANCIAL TARGETS
(1) Results for non-GAAP measures are reconciled from GAAP in the last section of this proxy statement.
(2) Percentages for targets reflect five-year compound annual growth rates, with 2020 as the base period.
Percentages for results reflect one-year annual growth rates, with 2020 as the base period.
(3) Target for sales growth ex. currency reflects the impact of completed acquisitions as of March 10, 2021,which represents (0.2)%.
2021 Financial Performance
In fiscal year 2021, we delivered another year of strong top- and bottom-line growth, expanded operating margins
and record free cash flow. We substantially exceeded our goals for the year, achieving the financial results shown on the
following page.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 53NET SALES
$8.41B
Reported sales increased by ~21%, reflecting
volume growth across our businesses and prior-year impact of COVID-19; sales ex. currencyincreased by ~19% and organic sales increasedby ~16% driven by strong demand for consumer
packaged goods and accelerated shift to
e-commerce in LGM and significant organicsales growth in Intelligent LabelsREPORTED EPS
$8.83
Reported EPS substantially increased by ~34%,in part due to prior-year impact of COVID-19;adjusted EPS increased by ~25% to $8.91driven by strong growth and operating marginexpansion; adjusted EPS substantially exceeded
top end of February 2021 guidance range
CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
$1,046.8M
Free cash flow of $797.7 million was used to
fund three acquisitions and three ventureinvestments, pay dividends of $220+ million andrepurchase 0.9 million shares of our commonstockNET INCOME
$740.1M
Achieved ROTC including acquisitionamortization of ~18% and ROTC excludingacquisition amortization of ~19%
Effective Capital Allocation
We have been consistently effective in executing our capital allocation strategy, balancing our investments in organic
growth, productivity, and acquisitions and venture investments with continuing to return cash to stockholders through
dividends and share repurchases. In 2021, we invested $272.1 million in fixed and IT capital expenditures to support
future growth and further productivity improvement and allocated $1.48 billion to acquisitions and ventureinvestments; we also paid $220.6 million in dividends and repurchased $180.9 million in shares of our common stock .
We have invested in our businesses to support organic growth and pursued complementary and synergistic
acquisitions. Our fixed and IT capital spending in 2021 was nearly 25% higher than in 2020, reflecting our continuedinvestment in high-value categories, including our fast-growing Intelligent Labels platform, and lower-than-plannedcapital expenditures in 2020 to mitigate the impact of COVID-19. During 2021, we acquired Vestcom, an Arkansas-based provider of shelf-edge pricing, productivity and consumer engagement solutions for retailers and consumer
packaged goods companies, for $1.47 billion, as well as ZippyYum, a California-based developer of software products
used in the food service and food preparation industries, and JDC, a Tennessee-based manufacturer of pressure-sensitivespecialty tapes, collectively for approximately $43 million. During 2021, we also made three venture investments incompanies developing innovative technological solutions that we believe have the potential to advance our businesses.
In 2021, we deployed $401.5 million to pay dividends of $2.66 per share and repurchase 0.9 million shares of our
common stock. We raised our quarterly dividend rate by approximately 10% in April 2021 . As shown on the following
page, over the last five years, we have allocated over $2 billion to acquisitions and venture investments and nearly
$2 billion to dividends and share repurchases .
54 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison Corporation$319.3
$3.8 $6.5$350.4$1,477.6
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021Acquisitions*
($M)
$155.5$175.0$189.7 $196.8$220.6
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021Dividends
($M) ($M)
$129.7$392.9
$237.7
$104.3$180.9
2018 2019 2020 2021 2017Share Repurchases
* Includes venture investments
TSR Outperformance
By generating substantial EVA, we drove strong TSR in 2021 despite the uncertain macroeconomic environment
during the year due to the continued impact of COVID-19 and related supply chain, labor, freight and inflationarychallenges. Our TSR of over 40% outperformed the S&P 500 and the median of the S&P 500 Industrials and Materialssubsets. More important, both our three-year and five-year TSR substantially outperformed these two comparator
groups.
5-Year Cumulative TSR
237%
133%
122%
0%40%80%120%160%200%240%
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021AVY S&P 500 S&P 500 Indus. & Mats. (median)1-, 3- and 5-Year TSR
AVY S&P 500 S&P Indus. & Mats.*
2017 67% 22% 28%
2018 (20)% (4)% (14)%
2019 49% 32% 34%
2020 21% 18% 17%2021 41% 29% 24%
3-Year TSR 154% 100% 94%
5-Year TSR 237% 133% 122%
* Based on median of companies in both subsets as of December 31, 2021
2021 Say-on-Pay Vote and Feedback During Stockholder Engagement
In 2021, we maintained proactive engagement with stockholders regarding executive compensation and talent
management. The Committee regularly reviews our executive compensation program, making changes as needed to
address feedback from our stockholders or more closely align the program with our financial profile, business strategies
and ESG priorities. We believe this process and the specific actions taken over time demonstrate the Committee’scommitment to paying for performance and being responsive to investor feedback. In 2021, during our ongoing
stockholder engagement program, we discussed elements of our executive compensation program with some of ourstockholders, who generally expressed support for its structure .
Results and Analysis of 2021 Vote
At the 2021 Annual Meeting, nearly 96% of our stockholders approved, on an advisory basis, our executive
compensation . The level of strong support we received was consistent with the high approval rates we have received in
recent years. The Committee believes that these strong say-on-pay vote results, as well as the generally positive
feedback we have received during our ongoing engagement with stockholders, reflects strong support of our executive
compensation program and our consistently improving CD&A disclosure.
Stockholder Engagement
We actively solicit feedback through stockholder engagement to ensure that we reflect not only our evolving business
strategies but also the expectations of our investors. In addition to our extensive investor relations program throughwhich members of management engage with our investors throughout the year, this supplemental engagement program
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 55is depicted – and the feedback we received on executive compensation, social sustainability and talent management are
described – in the proxy summary.
Strong ESG-Executive Compensation Linkage
Information on our ESG progress may be found in the proxy summary and the Environmental and Social Sustainability
section of this proxy statement. Additional information may be found in our 2021 integrated sustainability and annualreport and our March 2022 ESG Download being published concurrently with this proxy statement, as well as on our ESG
website at esg.averydennison.com. The 2021 integrated sustainability and annual report, March 2022 ESG Download
and other information on our website are not and should not be considered part of, nor are they incorporated by referenceinto, this proxy statement.
The stockholders with whom we spoke during 2021 asked about the Committee’s consideration of ESG matters in
our executive compensation program. In recent years, the Committee has engaged in frequent discussions with its
compensation consultant, WTW, and management regarding ESG–executive compensation linkage, in part due toincreasing investor interest in the topic, and reviewed market practices to explore the potential to further incorporateESG into our program . The Committee noted that our key company strategies include leading in an environmentally and
socially responsible manner, and that the committee seeks to approve executive compensation that reflects company
strategy and incents achievement of company goals.
The Committee has determined that our existing compensation practices and talent management priorities reflect our
ESG strategies, hold our leaders accountable and reward results. The Committee noted, among other things, the items
described below.
• Nearly half of the measures on our annual business group scorecards using the objectives, goals, strategies
and measures (OGSM) framework are ESG-related, aligning our leaders with these objectives and providing
visibility and accountability to enable continuous improvement. With their concise format and use of color-codingto indicate progress, these OGSMs surface ESG underperformance relative to our goals and offer an assessmenttool in year-end discussions with our business leaders on their annual performance.
•Our senior leadership, including our NEOs and Vice Presidents, have accountability for driving our ESG
progress ,with responsibility for executing toward our goals and targets cascaded throughout our
organization. People managers are expected to discuss the progress their team members make toward their
annual goals as part of our performance evaluation process. In approving base salary increases, AIP award
individual modifiers, structural pay increases and promotions, our managers consider not only financial orbusiness achievements, but also a leader’s success in advancing our ESG priorities, consistent with ourcompany’s strategies and values.
• Although the financial modifier in the AIP does not include ESG metrics, our financial performance in part reflects
our ESG progress and a key component in determining an AIP award is the individual modifier, which relies on
a qualitative assessment of annual performance. For our leaders, this process includes consideration of their
ESG-related contributions. In determining their 2021 AIP awards, the Committee discussed the ESG
achievements of our CEO and other NEOs in assessing their performance and determining their individualmodifiers.
•Diversity and Sustainability are two of our company’s values , reflecting the priority with which we hold ESG
matters. Our annual Leadership Excellence Awards are granted to teams globally in each of these categories,with winners receiving at least a 120% individual modifier on their AIP award, subject to the overall AIP awardcap of 200%. In 2021, over 70 employees globally received awards for diversity and sustainability, a substantial
increase from the 10 awards granted in 2018; over 20 additional individuals received awards related to their
leadership in the community.
As described in this proxy statement, we have made substantial ESG progress in recent years, and our Board and the
Committee are committed to delivering for all our stakeholders. The Committee shares our Board’s view that our financial
success in recent years has been inextricably linked to our ESG progress. We have consistently delivered more
sustainable solutions, which have provided significant competitive advantage, fueling our success in the marketplace andstrong financial performance. While our compensation programs have played an important part in advancing our ESG
initiatives, ESG has become embedded into our workplace culture. We are working diligently to advance our journey
because we believe that our company can have a long-term positive impact on people and our planet.
56 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationAfter reviewing benchmark data on current market practices, the Committee noted that, consistent with our existing
practice, the majority of S&P 500 companies consider ESG performance in their executive compensation programs, withmost doing so in ways similar to the way in which we do. The Committee is committed to regularly reviewing
stakeholder expectations and market practices, and pressure testing the continued appropriateness of its currentapproach, in consultation with management and WTW .If or when the Committee determines to include additional ESG
metrics as performance objectives in any of our incentive programs, it would establish targets that are as rigorous andobjectively measurable as our financial performance objectives.
2021 Named Executive Officers (NEOs)
In this CD&A and the Executive Compensation Tables section of this proxy statement, we provide compensation
information for our 2021 NEOs, who are identified in the chart below. Subsequent to year-end 2021, Mr. Stander was
elected by our Board to serve as President and Chief Operating Officer effective March 1, 2022; in connection withthis election, Mr. Butier ceased serving in the capacity of President. References in this proxy statement to Level 2 NEOs
are to Messrs. Lovins and Stander and references to Level 3 NEOs are to Ms. Baker-Nel and Mr. Walker.
NEOs
Name Title in 2021
Mitchell R. Butier Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer
Gregory S. Lovins Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
Deena Baker-Nel Vice President & Chief Human Resources Officer
Deon M. Stander Vice President & General Manager, RBIS
Ignacio J. Walker Vice President & Chief Legal Officer
Overview of Pay Philosophy and Executive Compensation Components
Our executive compensation program reflects the Committee’s philosophy that a substantial majority of
compensation should be tied to our success in achieving our financial objectives and creating stockholder value, providing
higher realized compensation when we deliver superior, sustained performance. The objectives of this strategy are to
motivate our executives to achieve our annual and long-term financial goals, giving consideration to their contributions todelivering strong performance. In support of our increased focus on ESG matters and greater transparency with all our
stakeholders, the Committee considers our ESG progress in evaluating the individual performance of our CEO andother NEOs .
The Committee implements its pay-for-performance philosophy as follows:
• Establishing target total direct compensation (TDC) to incent strong operational and financial performance and
stockholder value creation ,giving consideration to median pay at similarly sized companies, role
responsibilities, individual performance, tenure, retention, and succession
• Aligning our annual incentives for executives with our company’s annual operating plan and financial goals for
the year
• Rewarding long-term performance using absolute and relative TSR, as well as cumulative EVA, to focus our
executives on delivering consistent and sustainable stockholder value creation
Incentive compensation consists of target award opportunities under our AIP and our LTI compensation program,
with payouts determined based on our performance against objectives established by the Committee. The Committee
structures annual incentive compensation to reward NEOs based on corporate and/or business performance to align theircompensation with stockholder interests, giving consideration to their individual contributions to our performance. AIP
targets are established at or above the midpoint of the guidance we give to our stockholders on our anticipatedperformance for the year and consistent with achieving our long-term financial goals. Our LTI awards provide higher
realized compensation for exceeding performance targets and downside risk (up to and including cancellation) for
failing to achieve threshold performance, with EVA targets that are consistent with our long-term goals for earningsgrowth and ROTC.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 57ELEMENTS OF TARGET TDC FOR CORPORATE NEOs
ANNUALAdjusted EPS
60%
Adjusted Sales
Growth
20%Free Cash Flow
20%AIP AwardBase Salary
•  Generally set around market median
LONG-TERMPerformance Units (PUs)
•  50% Relative TSR
•  50% Cumulative EVA
•  3-year cliff vestingLTI Awards
Market-leveraged Stock Units (MSUs)
•  100% Absolute TSR
•  4-year ratable vesting•  Avg. performance period of 2.5 years 50%50%
As shown in the graph below, the substantial majority of each of our NEOs’ 2021 target TDC was performance-
based, meaning that they may not ultimately realize the value of the at-risk components of TDC if we fail to achieve thedesignated performance objectives. As a business NEO in 2021, Mr. Stander’s AIP award and PUs had different
performance objectives than those of our corporate NEOs.
2021 Target TDC
CEO’S 2021 TARGET TDC 88% PERFORMANCE-BASEDPerformance-Based Compensation
Base Salary
12%AIP Award
17%PUs
36%MSUs
35%
Mr. ButierBase Salary
24%AIP Award
18%PUs
29%MSUs
29%
Mr. LovinsBase Salary
38%AIP Award
19%PUs
22%MSUs
21%
Ms. Baker-NelBase Salary
30%AIP Award
18%PUs
26%MSUs
26%
Mr. StanderBase Salary
37%AIP Award
19%PUs
22%MSUs
22%
Mr. Walker
58 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationAs shown in the graph below, in recent years, our CEO’s compensation increased commensurate with our cumulative
TSR, with his 2021 pay reflecting the longer-term approach to CEO compensation described below.
$9.0 $8.7 $8.5 $8.7$12.4
$100$337
12/31/2016Five-Year CEO Pay and Cumulative TSR
CEO Pay ($M) TSR Indexed to 12/31/162017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Change in Approach to CEO Compensation
In the few years prior to 2021, the Committee discussed how best to ensure that it was compensating our CEO
optimally and in alignment with the long-term interests of our stockholders. The Committee’s objectives were to:
• Recognize our company’s performance and delivery of value to our customers, employees, investors and
communities during his tenure as our CEO
• Enhance his incentive to continue creating value for these stakeholders, including by driving superior TSR• Encourage his retention for the long term
The Committee sought to maintain market-competitive target TDC for our CEO well-aligned with our company’s
performance and ensure that his target TDC did not fall substantially below the median of similarly sized companies,
without relying on the traditional approach of annual review and periodic increase to the components of his TDC – basesalary, target AIP opportunity and target LTI opportunity – to maintain consistency with continually rising market CEO pay.
With expert advice and guidance from its independent compensation consultant, WTW, and giving consideration to
the feedback received in 2020 and 2021 during engagement with our investors , the Committee determined to shift
from considering annual increases to our CEO’s base salary and target AIP and LTI opportunities to a longer-term
approach that generally holds his target TDC constant for a three-year period. At the end of the period, the Committee
will evaluate both his and our company’s performance, as well as market conditions, before determining the appropriatelevel of his go-forward compensation, continuing to give consideration to factors such as tenure, retention andsuccession. The Committee intends for this approach to CEO compensation to be more consistent with the long-term
approach we take to planning our strategies, setting our financial targets and sustainability goals, and creating value
for all our stakeholders.
To ensure our CEO’s compensation remained competitive and mitigate the potential for his target TDC to
substantially fall behind his peers over the next three years, the Committee set our CEO’s compensation roughly halfwaybetween the 50
thand 75thpercentiles of companies with annual revenues between $6 billion and $10 billion, reflecting
his strong performance during his tenure in the role, during which our company consistently delivered top quartileperformance. The Committee’s expectation is that – at the end of the three-year period during which our CEO’s
compensation is expected not to increase – his TDC would be at or around the median pay at similarly sized companies.
Reviewing 2020 benchmark data and projected 2021 pay rates, the Committee targeted our CEO’s TDC for the year
at $9.9 million by increasing (i) his base salary by 6% to $1.2 million; (ii) his target AIP opportunity from 125% of basesalary to 140% of base salary; and (iii) his target LTI opportunity from 475% of base salary to 585% of base salary. The
Committee noted that our CEO had delivered strong value creation for all our stakeholders by leading thedevelopment and execution of our strategies during his tenure in the role and successfully navigated the impact of
COVID-19 in 2020 . Nearly 90% of his target TDC consists of at-risk, performance-based compensation; his realized
compensation depends on our company continuing to deliver strong TSR performance, achieving our 2021 and 2025financial targets and our 2025 and 2030 sustainability goals, and continuing to engage our employees, serve ourcustomers, deliver for our investors and support the communities in which we operate.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 59Strong Compensation Governance Practices
Our executive compensation program incorporates the best practices shown below, which the Committee believes
ensure that it serves the long-term interests of our stockholders.
Policy or Best Practice Description and Stockholder Benefit
PAY FOR PERFORMANCE
Compensation Primarily
Performance-Based✓ 88% of 2021 CEO target TDC and 70% of average 2021 target TDC of other NEOs tied to company
and/or business performance
Capped Annual Incentive
Set At or Above
Midpoint of Guidance✓ AIP award based on achievement of performance objectives set at or above midpoint of annual
guidance and consistent with long-term financial targets, subject to limited upward and unlimiteddownward discretion based on Committee’s assessment of CEO’s performance againstpredetermined strategic objectives and other NEOs’ individual contributions; awards capped at 200%
of target and individual modifiers for NEOs generally capped at 100%
Majority Long-Term Equity
Incentive Compensation✓ LTI awards prioritize long-term performance, with PUs cliff-vesting in 3 years and MSUs vesting in
tranches over 4 years; realized compensation based on long-term performance and stockholder valuecreation
Strategic Targeting✓ TDC (base salary + target AIP opportunity + target LTI opportunity) set to incent strong performance
and value creation, giving consideration to median pay at similarly sized companies, role
responsibilities, performance, tenure, retention and succession
No Annual Stock Options✓ Last made regular grant of stock options in 2012, though stock options may be granted for special
purposes such as promotion
COMPENSATION BEST PRACTICES
No Employment Contracts ✓ NEOs employed at-will
Rigorous Stock
Ownership Policy✓ CEO required to maintain ownership of 6x his base salary; at YE 2021, he owned 8x his requirement;
Level 2 and Level 3 NEOs required to maintain ownership of 3x and 2x of base salary, respectively
No Hedging or Pledging✓ Insider trading policy prohibits officers and employees from hedging – and officers from pledging –
AVY common stock and all NEOs complied during 2021
Limited Trading Windows✓ NEOs may only transact in our common stock during approved trading windows after satisfying
clearance requirements, including certifying continued compliance with stock ownership policy
Median Burn Rate ✓ Three-year average burn rate of 0.58% at YE 2021, in line with 50thpercentile of S&P 500 companies
Clawback Policy✓ Cash and equity incentive compensation subject to clawback in event of fraud or other intentional
misconduct that necessitates accounting restatement
No Excise Tax Gross Ups ✓ No gross-up payments for excise taxes for termination following change of control
Double Trigger
Equity Vesting✓ Equity awards not accelerated on change of control, unless NEO is terminated without cause or
terminates employment for good reason within 24 months following change of control
No Repricing/Exchange of
Underwater Stock Options✓ No repricing or exchange of underwater options without stockholder approval
Limited Perquisites✓ Other than capped financial planning reimbursement for certain NEOs and payment for annual
physical examinations, NEOs receive flat taxable executive benefit allowances not subject to taxgross-up
Reasonable
Severance Benefits✓ Severance formula for qualifying termination:
CEO : 2x (annual salary + target AIP award for year of termination + cash value of annual health
insurance premium)
All other NEOs: 1x (annual salary + target AIP award for year of termination + cash value of annual
health insurance premium)
Reasonable Change of
Control Benefits✓ Severance formula for qualifying termination of certain NEOs within 24 months following a change of
control:
CEO : 3x (annual salary + target AIP award for year of termination + cash value of annual health
insurance premium) + prorated target AIP award for year of terminationLevel 2 NEOs : 2x (annual salary + target AIP award for year of termination + cash value of annual
health insurance premium) + prorated target AIP award for year of termination
STRONG GOVERNANCE
Independent Oversight✓ Committee comprising independent directors with executive compensation decisions reviewed and
ratified by all independent directors
Expert Compensation
Consultant✓ WTW is independent, free of conflicts of interest and provides Committee with expert executive
compensation advice
60 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationSUMMARY OF COMPENSATION DECISIONS FOR 2021
The Committee approves executive compensation to pay for performance, with the target TDC of NEOs established
to incent strong financial performance and stockholder value creation. Compensation is primarily performance-based,meaning that our executives may not ultimately realize some or all of the at-risk components of TDC if we fail to achieveour financial objectives. In 2021, approximately 88% and 70% of the target TDC of our CEO and the average of our
other NEOs, respectively, was performance-based .
In determining 2021 NEO compensation – in addition to the continued impact of COVID-19, and related supply chain,
labor, freight and inflationary challenges, on our businesses and our leaders’ continuous efforts during the year to addressand mitigate these matters – the Committee considered the factors described below.
•Company/Business Performance – Our company’s financial performance, including our 2021 adjusted sales
growth, adjusted EPS and free cash flow for corporate NEOs, and, for our business NEO, the performance of
RBIS
•Stockholder Returns – Our TSR on an absolute basis, as well as relative to a designated group of peer
companies
•Individual Performance – Our CEO’s performance against the predetermined strategic objectives established for
him at the beginning of the year and the individual contributions of our other NEOs
•Competitiveness – Pay practices and company performance relative to the market
•Investor Feedback – The results of our 2021 say-on-pay vote and feedback on executive compensation received
during our ongoing stockholder engagement program
The key elements of 2021 NEO target TDC are described in the table shown below and on the following page. While
we provide consistent, market-competitive target TDC opportunities for our NEOs, the actual compensation theyrealize varies year-to-year based primarily on company and business performance .
2021 EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION SUMMARY
Component Rationale Decisions Impacting 2021 Compensation
FIXED
Base Salary12% of TDC for CEO;
Avg. 30% of TDC for
Other NEOsProvides fixed, market competitive monthly
income for performing day-to-day responsibilitiesAs part of the longer-term compensation approach
implemented for our CEO, his base salary increased by 6%.The base salaries of our other NEOs increased by 2.5%,consistent with the average merit increase for our U.S.
employees, except that Mr. Lovins received an increase of
7% to be more consistent with the market.
PERFORMANCE-BASED
SHORT-TERM CASH
Target
AIP Award
17% of TDC for CEO;
Avg. 18% of TDC forOther NEOs
Capped at 200% of
targetProvides variable, cash-based incentive to
motivate executives to grow sales, increaseprofitability and deliver strong free cash flow
consistent with our annual financial goals
Target AIP opportunity based on market survey
data; financial modifier based on company and/or business performance; individual modifier
based on CEO’s achievement against
predetermined strategic objectives and otherNEOs’ individual contributionsAs part of longer-term compensation approach implemented
for our CEO, his target AIP opportunity increased from 125%
of base salary to 140% of base salary. There were no other
changes to NEO target AIP opportunities.
Company performance resulted in financial modifier of
200% for corporate NEOs. Financial modifier for business
NEO was 186% based 75% on RBIS performance and 25%
on company performance.
Individual modifiers for all NEOs were 100%.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 612021 EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION SUMMARY
Component Rationale Decisions Impacting 2021 Compensation
PERFORMANCE-BASED
LONG-TERM EQUITY
Target LTI Award
(50% PUs, 50% MSUs)
71% of TDC for CEO;
Avg. 52% of TDC forOther NEOsProvides variable, equity-based incentive
compensation to align NEO interests withstockholder interests and drive long-termvalue creation
Target LTI opportunity based on market
survey data; award vehicles, performance
criteria and weightings determined withadvice from WTWLTI Awards Granted in 2021
• As part of the longer-term compensation approach
implemented for our CEO, his target LTI opportunity
increased from 475% of base salary to 585% of base
salary. There were no other changes to NEO target LTIopportunities.
• 50% in PUs that cliff-vest at the end of three-year period
with payouts ranging from zero to 200% based on the
achievement of the respective cumulative EVA andrelative TSR performance objectives. Payout for the TSRcomponent is capped at 100% of target for any three-
year performance period in which absolute TSR is
negative. There were no changes to PU performanceobjectives or weightings for 2021.
• 50% in MSUs that vest based on absolute TSR over one-,
two-, three- and four-year performance periods, with an
average performance period of 2.5 years. Performancecriteria are as follows: (i) threshold performance level,which results in payout at vesting of 85%, is TSR of
(15)%; (ii) target performance level, which results in a
payout at vesting of 100%, requires TSR of 10%; and(iii) maximum performance level, which results in payoutat vesting of 200%, requires TSR of 75%. There were no
changes to MSU performance criteria for 2021.
LTI Awards Vesting at YE 2021
•2019-2021 PUs : Our 2019-2021 TSR was at the 93
rd
percentile of the objectively determined peer group
established in February 2019, resulting in a payout of200% on that performance objective for all NEOs.
Cumulative EVA for our company was $1,132.0 million,
resulting in a payout of 176% on that performanceobjective for corporate NEOs. Cumulative EVA for RBISwas 94% of target, resulting in a payout of 87% on that
performance objective for our business NEO. 2019-2021
PUs paid out at 188% of target for corporate NEOs and115% of target for our business NEO.
• MSUs Vesting at YE 2021
•4
thTranche of MSUs granted in 2018
2018-2021 Absolute TSR of 87%Paid out at 200% of target
•3
rdTranche of MSUs granted in 2019
2019-2021 Absolute TSR of 131%Paid out at 200% of target
•2
ndTranche of MSUs granted in 2020
2020-2021 Absolute TSR of 64%Paid out at 183% of target
•1
stTranche of MSUs granted in 2021
2021 Absolute TSR of 33%Paid out at 135% of target
In addition to the elements of our executive compensation program described above, we also provide our NEOs with
limited perquisites and benefits that the Committee believes are comparable to those offered by other multinational publiccompanies.
62 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationDISCUSSION OF COMPENSATION COMPONENTS AND
DECISIONS IMPACTING 2021 EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
The Committee aims to have base salaries at or around median pay at similarly sized companies, with the substantial
majority of NEO compensation consisting of incentive compensation to advance the Committee’s pay-for-performancephilosophy, driving higher realized compensation when our financial and ESG performance is stronger and lower realized
compensation when our financial and ESG performance is weaker.
Base Salary
Increases in base salary for NEOs are generally based on the average merit increase given to our U.S. employees,
subject to increase based on the NEO’s performance and market comparisons for positions with similar scope andresponsibility. As part of the longer-term compensation approach implemented for our CEO, his base salary increased by6% in 2021. The Committee approved base salary increases of 2.5% for our other NEOs, consistent with the averagemerit increase for our U.S. employees, except that Mr. Lovins’ base salary increased by 7% to be more consistent with the
market.
NEO base salaries at year-end 2021 were as follows: Mr. Butier – $1,200,000; Mr. Lovins – $661,260;
Ms. Baker-Nel – $416,000; Mr. Stander – $569,007; and Mr. Walker – $425,375.
2021 AIP Awards
The 2021 AIP was designed to incent management to create long-term stockholder value. NEOs are not eligible for
guaranteed AIP awards. AIP awards are determined for each fiscal year using the formula below. Individual modifiers for
NEOs are generally capped at 100% although the Committee retains the discretion to determine higher individualmodifiers to reward individual performance, including for their ESG-related achievements, up to 150%.
X X XYE
Base Salary Target AIP Opportunity 
(based on  
market survey data) Financial Modiﬁer 
(based on corporate and/or 
business performance) 
Capped at 200% Individual Modiﬁer 
(based on individual 
performance) 
Capped at 150% 
Aggregate Cap of 
200% 
Target AIP Opportunities
As a percentage of base salary, 2021 target AIP opportunities were 140% for Mr. Butier, 75% for Mr. Lovins, 60% for
Mr. Stander and 50% for Ms. Baker-Nel and Mr. Walker. As part of the longer-term compensation approach implementedfor our CEO, his target AIP increased from 125% of base salary. There were no other changes to NEO target AIP
opportunities.
AIP Performance Objectives and Weightings; Target-Setting Principles
The following performance objectives and weightings for the 2021 AIP were established by the Committee, which
were the same ones used for the 2020 AIP to continue incenting our NEOs to increase sales on an organic basis, improveadjusted EPS and generate strong free cash flow. Our CEO, CFO and CHRO participated during portions of the meetings
during which the Committee reviewed and recommended performance objectives for the AIP and analyzed our
performance against these objectives.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 63For our business NEO, the Committee determined to link 75% of his AIP financial modifier to RBIS’ results and 25%
to corporate results. RBIS’ performance objectives were designed to provide realized compensation only if the businessimproved upon its 2020 performance and delivered results consistent with delivering its 2017-2021 financial targets.
2021 AIP TARGETS
Objective Description Linkage
Adjusted Sales Growth
(20%)Focuses management on top-line organic growth, a
key contributor to sustained long-term valuecreation• Tied to total company for corporate NEOs
(Butier, Lovins, Baker-Nel and Walker)
• Tied to RBIS for business NEO (Stander)
Profitability
(60%)Primary driver of stockholder value creation and
measure used to provide annual guidance toinvestors; focuses management on profitablegrowth and expense control• For corporate NEOs, based on our total
company adjusted EPS
• For business NEO (as a proportion of
profitability objective) based:• 42% on total company adjusted EPS• 58% on RBIS’ adjusted net income
Free Cash Flow
(20%)Cash available after investment in our business,
which can be deployed for acquisitions, dividendsand share repurchases; focuses management on
improving capital efficiency, including working
capital• Tied to total company for corporate NEOs
• Tied to RBIS for business NEO
In setting 2021 AIP targets, the Committee aimed to ensure consistency with our 2017-2021 financial targets and
require improvement over the prior year, considering the factors described below. Results in 2020 were significantly
impacted by COVID-19, resulting in targets and results that were significantly higher than prior years. Beginning in
2021, the Committee reduced the threshold payout level for the AIP’s profitability performance objective(s) from 50% to
0% to heighten management’s focus on improving profitability and more closely align with market practices.
• Target adjusted sales growth of 5.5% was set above our 2017-2021 target of at least 4% and our 2020 results
of (3.4)%.
• Target adjusted EPS of $7.90 was set above the midpoint of the annual guidance we provided to investors in
February 2021 and consistent with our 2017-2021 target of over 10%, representing an 11% increase from our2020 results.
• Although we did not externally communicate a free cash flow target as part of our 2017-2021 financial goals,
our outlook at the beginning of 2021 was to deliver free cash flow of at least $600 million. Our 2021 target forcorporate free cash flow was 11% higher than the record free cash flow we generated in 2020, despite higher
planned fixed and IT capital investments to support our future growth and profitability.
CORPORATE 2021 AIP TARGETS VS. LONG-TERM TARGETS AND 2020 RESULTS
2017-2021 Long-Term Target 2020 Results 2021 AIP Target
Adjusted Sales Growth 4%+ (3.4)% 5.5%
Adjusted EPS Growth 10%+ $7.10$7.90
(11% over 2020 results)
Free Cash Flow N/A $548M$610M
(11% over 2020 results)
Financial Modifiers
AIP financial modifiers are capped at 200%. In evaluating our achievement of these performance objectives, the
Committee has the discretion to exclude the impact, positive or negative, of extraordinary items such as acquisitions anddivestitures; restructuring and integration actions not included in our annual net income plan; currency translation
fluctuations; changes in accounting principles, tax codes or related regulations and rulings; extraordinary events such as
natural disasters, outbreaks of epidemiological disease, terrorism and war; costs related to the early extinguishment ofdebt and pension plan terminations; costs of litigation outside the normal course of business; and non-cash chargesassociated with the impairment of long-lived assets.
64 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationThe table below shows the 2021 AIP financial modifiers for our NEOs. As shown, the maximum level was exceeded
for all three performance objectives established for our corporate NEOs and three of the four performance objectivesestablished for our business NEO; the fourth performance objective for our business NEO was in excess of the targetlevel.
2021 AIP FINANCIAL MODIFIERS
NEO(s)Performance
Objective WeightingThreshold
(50%)Target
(100%)Maximum
(200%)2021
Actual ModifierWeighted
Average
Modifier
Butier
LovinsBaker-NelWalkerTotal Company
Adjusted Sales Growth
(1)20% 3.0% 5.5% 9.0% 15.6% 200% 40%
Total Company
Adjusted EPS(2)60% $7.60 $7.90 $8.60 $8.78 200% 120%
Total Company
Free Cash Flow(3)20% $550M $610M $730M $754M 200% 40%
Corporate NEO Financial Modifier 200%
Stander Total Company
Adjusted EPS(2)25% $7.60 $7.90 $8.60 $8.78 200% 50%
RBIS
Adjusted Sales Growth(4)20% 6.0% 11.0% 15.0% 25.2% 200% 40%
RBIS
Adjusted Net
Income(4) (5)35% $135.3M $147.6M $162.3M $177.6M 200% 70%
RBIS
Free Cash Flow(4) (6)20% $133M $159M $212M $175M 130% 26%
Business NEO Financial Modifier 186%
(1) Total Company Adjusted Sales Growth refers to reported sales growth of 20.6%, adjusted for the impact of currency translation of (3.4%), acquisition s and
product line divestitures of (3.1%) and impact of 53rdweek in 2020 of 1.4%. Total does not sum due to rounding.
(2) Total Company Adjusted EPS refers to reported net income per common share, assuming dilution, of $8.83, adjusted for restructuring charges and other items of
$0.08 and removing the impact of acquisitions completed since the target was set of ($0.13).
(3) Total Company Free Cash Flow refers to net cash provided by operations of $1,046.8 million, minus purchases of property, plant and equipment of $255.0 million
and software and other deferred charges of $17.1 million, plus proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment of $1.1 million, plus proceeds fro m insurance
and sales (purchases) of investments, net, of $3.1 million, minus the impact of free cash flow from acquisitions, net of acquisition costs, completed since the
targets were set of $25.1 million.
(4) Adjusted sales growth, adjusted net income and free cash flow measures at the segment level are internal metrics. These metrics exclude or make simpli fying
assumptions for items that cannot be allocated precisely by segment, such as interest and income tax expense, and related balance sheet accounts, suc ha s
deferred tax assets and liabilities, income tax payables and receivables, and short- and long-term debt. Certain balance sheet accounts such as pens ion and other
postretirement benefits and insurance that are generally managed at the corporate level, as well as the impact of foreign currency translation, are a lso excluded
from the calculation of these metrics at the segment level. In certain limited circumstances, one-time items may be excluded from segment adjusted ne t income.
The impact of intercompany sales is included in segment metrics.
(5) Adjusted net income refers to income before taxes, tax-effected at the adjusted tax rate, and adjusted for tax-effected restructuring charges and ot her items, as
well as the impact of acquisitions completed since the targets were set. Adjusted tax rate is the full-year GAAP tax rate, excluding certain unusual or infrequent
events that are expected to significantly impact the GAAP tax rate, such as effects of discrete tax structuring and planning actions.
(6) RBIS free cash flow payout reflects impact of corporate capital specifically allocated to support future RBIS growth.
NEO Performance Evaluations and Individual Modifiers
Our NEOs are evaluated on their individual performance for the year. The Committee approves our CEO’s strategic
objectives and our CEO approves the goals of our other NEOs, in each case in February, with the performance of all NEOsevaluated in February of the following year. The Committee evaluates our CEO’s performance against his predetermined
strategic objectives; for our NEOs other than the CEO, this assessment considers the totality of their performance.
While the goal-setting process in 2021 was consistent with prior years, ensuring the safety and well-being of our
employees and navigating the uncertain macroeconomic environment caused by COVID-19 and related supply chain,labor, freight and inflationary challenges to deliver for our customers were the primary objectives for all our leaders who
continually adjusted our COVID-19 response in the face of continuously evolving health information, governmental
regulations and economic conditions.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 65Individual modifiers for all participants are capped at 150%, subject to the total cap on AIP awards of 200%.
Although it retains the discretion to determine individual modifiers of up to 150%, the Committee has determined that theindividual modifiers for our CEO and other NEOs should generally be capped at 100%. The individual modifiers for allNEOs for 2021 were 100%.
The Committee evaluated our CEO’s annual performance, giving consideration to his success in navigating the impact
of COVID-19 on our employees and customers, constrained raw material, freight and labor availability, and persistentinflation during the year; his performance against his predetermined strategic objectives established in February 2021;
and the self-assessment of his performance discussed with the Committee in February 2022. The Committee determined
the individual modifier for our CEO based on its assessment of his performance. The Committee Chair, together with our
Lead Independent Director, discussed with our CEO the feedback from discussions by the Committee and our fullBoard regarding his 2021 performance .
For 2021, the Committee evaluated the performance of our CEO against his strategic objectives for the year,
determining that he substantially achieved or exceeded them, as shown in the chart below. In contrast to prior years, ourCEO’s strategic objectives for 2021 had no assigned weightings, reflecting the Committee’s expectation that Mr. Butierdelver on all fronts given the uncertain economic environment as a result of COVID-19.
Strategic Objective Evaluation
Drive outsized growth in high-value categories – Deliver above-
average organic growth rate in LGM’s graphics and specialtyproduct categories; achieve targeted percentages of growth inexternal embellishments in RBIS and in Intelligent Labels; andmanage IHM through challenging macroeconomic environmentSignificantly grew graphics and specialty product categories in
LGM; substantially exceeded growth targets in RBIS’ externalembellishments and in Intelligent Labels; and managed IHMthrough challenging macroeconomic environment, withsignificant improvement in Industrial and Automotive marketsegments compared to prior year
Grow profitably in our base businesses – Manage market
segment share position in LGM’s regional businesses; protect shareposition in RBIS’ base product categories (adjusted for RFID); andaccelerate near-term productivity in IHMManaged LGM regional share positions well given constrained
raw material availability and inflationary environment;expanded share in RBIS’ base business with sales substantiallyincreasing over prior year; and, although its margins expandedin recent years, IHM did not achieve targeted 2021 operatingmargin
Focus relentlessly on productivity –Achieve targeted
restructuring savings in LGM and RBIS and execute designatedsignificant projects in each reportable segmentSignificantly exceeded targeted restructuring savings and
successfully executed designated significant projects, realizingsavings in excess of target
Allocate capital effectively –Invest in capital expenditures within
targeted range to enable future growth; continue to build M&Apipeline and integrate acquisitions; invest targeted amount inaccelerated growth platforms; and repurchase shares asappropriateInvested $270+ million in fixed and IT capital expenditures to
enable future growth; improved operating working capital;completed 3 acquisitions, made 3 venture investments andcontinued to ensure robust M&A pipeline; exceeded target forinvestment in accelerated growth platforms; and repurchased$180+ million in shares
Lead in an environmentally and socially responsible manner –
Progress innovation strategy and deployment program; continue toreduce GHG emissions; develop accelerated roadmap to enablegreater recyclability of consumer packaged goods in LGM; furtherincrease leadership diversity; and expand ESG reporting andtransparency, improving ESG rating agency scoresDeveloped scorecard and defined innovation pipeline to
continue progressing innovation strategy; set bolder 2030targets for GHG emissions reduction, including new Scope 3target and net zero ambition by 2050; advanced two strategicinnovation platforms focused on material circularity and wastereduction/elimination; increased representation of women inmanager-level and above roles to 35% and continued toadvance DE+I for members of other underrepresentedcommunities; and published second integrated report and 2021ESG Downloads, with improved scores from key ESG ratingagencies
Refine/Execute leadership succession plan –Progress CEO
succession to ensure ready-now successors over multiple timehorizons, and refine/execute executive leadership developmentplansProgressed CEO succession strategy, ensuring ready-now
successors over multiple time horizons, and refined andexecuted development plans for leadership, resulting inseasoned executives being promoted to serve as President/COO and leaders of RBIS Apparel Solutions and IHMbusinesses
CEO Individual Modifier Based on Evaluation 100%
66 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationOur CEO recommended to the Committee the individual modifiers for our other NEOs based on his assessment of
their 2021 performance. The Committee considered our CEO’s assessments and recommendations, retaining thediscretion to approve individual modifiers for them different than what our CEO had recommended. Other than discussingwith our CEO their performance against their individual performance plans, our other NEOs played no role in theircompensation determinations.
In determining the individual modifiers for our other NEOs, the Committee noted the highlights of their 2021
performance described below.
•Mr. Lovins – Led our global finance function, including overseeing our strong controllership environment and our
tax, treasury and operational finance teams; ensuring we delivered 2021 results that exceeded our annual goalsfor adjusted EPS and free cash flow while continuing to make progress toward our long-term financial targets
and sustainability goals, despite the challenging macroeconomic environment caused by persistent inflation and
supply chain disruptions; and ensuring our balance sheet remained strong as we continued to invest in ourbusinesses, both organically and through acquisitions, while also returning cash to stockholders. In addition,Mr. Lovins continued to serve as the interim leader of our IHM business through the end of 2021, achievingstrong top-line and operating income growth, and oversaw the continued expansion of our ESG disclosures.
Mr. Lovins also served as a member of the Board of Trustees of the Avery Dennison Foundation (ADF).
•Ms. Baker-Nel – Led our global human resources, communications and community investment functions,
prioritizing the safety, health and well-being of our teams as we continued navigating the impacts of COVID-19;
facilitating senior leadership succession, including the appointments of our new President/COO and the new
leaders of our RBIS Apparel and IHM businesses; developing our go-forward DE+I strategy and increasingtransparency on our progress; onboarding approximately 1,400 new team members from the three acquisitionswe completed in 2021; formalizing the guiding principles around the future of work in support of greater
workplace flexibility and effectiveness; and fostering employee engagement and enhanced dialogue around key
areas of talent management such as DE+I and employee well-being. Ms. Baker-Nel also served as a member ofthe Board of Trustees of ADF.
•Mr. Stander –Led our global RBIS business through another challenging year, ensuring continued elevation of
global service and flexibility for customers while delivering record growth and margin expansion; investing in andcontinuing to grow the high-value categories of Intelligent Labels and external embellishments; and ensuring thesafety of an engaged and diverse global team. In addition, Mr. Stander led our successful acquisition of Vestcom,further accelerating our position in high-value categories, and continued leading our enterprise-wide
Sustainability Council, overseeing our progress toward our 2025 sustainability goals, developing and beginning
to track progress toward our 2030 sustainability goals, and implementing enhanced ESG reporting protocols.Mr. Stander also served as a member of the Board of Trustees of ADF.
•Mr. Walker –Led our global legal function, advising our Board and management on acquisitions and venture
investments, litigation, intellectual property and footprint optimization projects; overseeing our Values & Ethicsand risk management functions, securities and governance work, and government relations efforts; implementinga new functional operational model to accelerate productivity, standardize processes and deploy best practices;
developing strategic priorities for his department that align with our company’s values and strategies; designing
and executing projects to progress the department’s strategic priorities of business risk optimization, people andculture, operational efficiency, and sustainability; and leading training and career development sessions toenhance engagement across his global team.
Based on these assessments and after giving consideration to the recommendations of our CEO (other than with
respect to himself), the Committee approved individual modifiers of 100% for all NEOs.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 67AIP Awards
Our NEOs received the AIP awards shown in the table below for 2021, based on their respective year-end base
salary, AIP opportunity, financial modifier and individual modifier.
2021 AIP AWARDS
NEO2021 YE
Base SalaryAIP
OpportunityTarget
AIP AwardFinancial
ModifierIndividual
ModifierAIP
Award
Butier $1,200,000 140% $1,680,000 200% 100% $3,360,000
Lovins $ 661,260 75% $ 495,945 200% 100% $ 991,890
Baker-Nel $ 416,000 50% $ 208,000 200% 100% $ 416,000
Stander $ 569,007 60% $ 341,404 186% 100% $ 635,011
Walker $ 425,375 50% $ 212,687 200% 100% $ 425,374
2021 GRANTS OF LTI AWARDS
Our LTI program provides variable incentive compensation to enhance alignment of executive interests with
stockholder interests and drive long-term value creation. The annual and special LTI awards granted to NEOs in 2021
were fully performance-based and delivered through the equity vehicles described below.
• 50% in PUs that cliff-vest at the end of a three-year period subject to the achievement of the respective
cumulative EVA and relative TSR performance objectives established for the award
• 50% in MSUs that vest at the end of the one-, two-, three- and four-year performance periods, with an
average performance period of 2.5 years, based solely on our absolute TSR
Annual LTI awards were granted on March 1, 2021. Actual amounts, if any, realized by our NEOs from the vesting of
these awards will be based on our performance, as well as our stock price at the time of vesting.
The Committee does not offset the loss or gain of prior year grants in determining current year grants, as doing so
would compromise the intended risk/reward nature of these incentives.
Special LTI awards may be granted by the Committee for hiring, promotion, retention and/or other incentive purposes,
with the awards granted on the first day of the last month of the quarter following the event or decision to make a grant.
For retention purposes and to further incent Mr. Stander to contribute to our total company – including by driving our ESGprogress as leader of our enterprise-wide Sustainability Council and continuing to transform our RBIS business –Mr. Stander was granted a special one-time award of PUs with a grant date fair value of approximately $500,000 based50% on our relative TSR and 50% of total company EVA, the same performance objectives, weightings and targets, and
over the same performance period, as the 2021-2023 PUs granted to our corporate NEOs.
Target LTI Opportunity
As a percentage of base salary, the 2021 target LTI opportunities for our NEOs were 585% for Mr. Butier; 250% for
Mr. Lovins; 180% for Mr. Stander; and 120% for Ms. Baker-Nel and Mr. Walker. Target LTI award opportunities
represented 71% and 52%, respectively, of our CEO’s and other NEOs’ average performance-based incentive
compensation. As part of the longer-term compensation approach implemented for our CEO in 2021, Mr. Butier’s target
LTI opportunity increased from 475% of base salary.
68 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationPerformance Units (PUs)
PUs cliff-vest in shares of our common stock after the end of a three-year period at threshold (50% payout), target
(100% payout) and maximum (200% payout) levels based on our achievement of the performance objectives establishedfor the award. PUs do not accrue dividend equivalents and are not counted for purposes of our stock ownership policy.
The Committee established the following performance objectives for the 2021-2023 PUs. The Committee believes
that these objectives align executive compensation with the long-term interests of our stockholders because deliveringcumulative EVA and strong TSR relative to peer companies reflects the value we create for our investors.
•Cumulative EVA, weighted 50% for our corporate NEOs (based on our total company) and 75% for our
business NEO (based on RBIS’ cumulative EVA) . EVA is a measure of financial performance calculated by
deducting the economic cost associated with the use of capital (weighted average cost of capital multiplied by
average invested capital) from after-tax operating profit, with the cost of capital fixed over the performanceperiod. The Committee established cumulative EVA targets for our corporate NEOs consistent with our 2017-2021 financial goals for earnings growth and ROTC and our primary objective of delivering superior TSR, withthe target payout at or slightly above the midpoint of these targets and the maximum payout exceeding the highend of these targets. The cumulative EVA target for our business NEO focused on RBIS’ EVA change compared
to the prior three-year period, with the target payout at the top end of its 2017-2021 targets. In contrast to the
AIP, cash restructuring charges – which include severance and related costs and exclude asset impairmentcharges and lease and other contract cancellation costs – are included in EVA calculations as the Committeeexpects these investments to generate a return over the three-year performance period (in contrast to the AIP,
which measures performance over one year). Whether linked to corporate or business results, the 2021-2023
cumulative EVA targets require continued improvement in financial performance.
•Relative TSR compared to an objectively determined peer group of companies, weighted 50% for our
corporate NEOs and 25% for our business NEO . TSR measures the return that we provide to our stockholders,
including stock price appreciation and dividends paid (assuming reinvestment of dividends). Consistent with itspay-for-performance philosophy, the Committee designed the TSR objective to provide realized compensationonly if our stockholder value creation compares favorably relative to the designated peer group. The Committee
set the threshold payout at TSR at the 40
thpercentile, target payout at TSR at the 50thpercentile, and maximum
payout at TSR at the 80thpercentile, which were the same levels used for the 2020-2022 PUs. Payouts for the
relative TSR component of PUs are capped at 100% of target if our absolute TSR is negative for the 2021-2023 performance period . In assessing the rigor of the TSR objectives, the Committee noted that our stock price
and TSR had significantly increased in the second half of 2020; as a result, performing at the median relative to
our peers over the 2021-2023 period would represent solid performance, particularly in light of continueduncertainty regarding the impact of COVID-19, as well as our relatively high exposure to the impact of foreigncurrency translation and the geopolitical and trade-related uncertainty at that time.
Consistent with the 2020-2022 PUs and with the advice of WTW, to benchmark TSR, the Committee utilized a
peer group† comprised of U.S. companies (i) in similar industries based on their classification in one of five GICS
groups (diversified chemicals, specialty chemicals, metal and glass containers, paper packaging, and paper
products) and (ii) with revenues during the last 12 months of $1 billion to $20 billion. Applying this same criteria,the peer group changed from the prior year as follows: (A) Pactiv Evergreen Inc. was added following a merger;(B) Quaker Chemical Corporation was added because its GICS classification changed; and (C) Ferro Corporationand GCP Applied Technologies were deleted because each of their last 12 months’ revenues was less than
$1 billion.
† The following companies comprised the peer group for the 2021-2023 PUs at the end of fiscal year 2021: Albermarle Corporation; AptarGroup, Inc.; Ash land Global
Holdings Inc.; Axalta Coating Systems Ltd.; Avient Corporation (formerly known as PolyOne Corporation); Ball Corporation; Berry Global Group, Inc .; Celanese
Corporation; Clearwater Paper Corporation; Crown Holdings, Inc.; Eastman Chemical Company; Ecolab Inc.; Ecovyst Inc. (formerly PQ Group Holdings Inc.); Element
Solutions Inc.; Graphic Packaging Holding Company; Greif, Inc.; H.B. Fuller Company; Huntsman Corporation; Ingevity Corporation; Innospec Inc.; International
Flavors & Fragrances Inc.; Kraton Corporation; Minerals Technologies Inc.; NewMarket Corporation; O-I Glass Inc.; Packaging Corporation of Ameri ca; Pactive
Evergreen; PPG Industries, Inc.; Quaker Chemical Corporation; Rayonier Advanced Materials Inc.; RPM International Inc.; Schweitzer-Maudit Inte rnational Inc.; Sealed
Air Corporation; Sensient Technologies Corporation; Silgan Holdings Inc.; Sonoco Products Company; Stepan Company; The Chemours Company; The She rwin-
Williams Company; Valhi, Inc.; Verso Corporation; and WestRock Company.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 692021-2023 PUs
NEO Performance Objectives Weighting
Butier
LovinsBaker-NelWalkerTotal Company Cumulative EVA
Relative TSR50%
50%
StanderRBIS Cumulative EVA 75%
Relative TSR 25%
Market-leveraged Stock Units (MSUs)
MSUs are performance-based LTI awards tied to our absolute TSR performance, which represents appreciation in our
stock price and dividends paid. MSUs are designed to achieve the Committee’s combined objectives of retention and
higher incentive compensation driven by stock price appreciation .
MSUs vest based on our performance over periods as shown in the graph below, with the number of shares paid out
at vesting based solely on our absolute TSR and the value realized reflecting both the number of shares paid out as wellas our stock price at the time of vesting. Although dividend equivalents accrue on MSUs during the performance period,they are earned and paid only at vesting; if the threshold level of performance is not achieved, any dividend equivalentsaccrued during the performance period are cancelled.
The performance criteria for MSUs are shown in the chart below. Every 1% increase in TSR above 10% increases the
payout by 1.54%. The Committee determined to maintain the same MSU performance objectives for 2021 given that theprogram is accomplishing the Committee’s goal of incenting strong performance and value creation.
4-Year3-Year2-Year1-Year
Last 25%Third 25%Second 25%First 25%MSU PERFORMANCE PERIODS
AVG. PERFORMANCE PERIOD = 2.5 YEARSMSU PERFORMANCE CRITERIA
Absolute TSR Unit Payout
Cancelled <(15)% 0%
Threshold (15)% 85%Target 10% 100%Above Target >10% >100%Maximum 75% 200%
Annual LTI Awards
Our NEOs were granted the annual LTI awards shown in the table below in February 2021. Except as noted, the
number of awards granted was based on the respective NEO’s base salary at year-end 2020 and target LTI opportunity.Consistent with our historical practice, the number of PUs granted was based on the average closing price for shares of
our common stock during the first 10 trading days of February 2021 and the number of MSUs granted was based on a
grant date fair value using the Monte-Carlo simulation method described in footnote (2) of the 2021 Summary
Compensation Table .
2021 ANNUAL LTI AWARDS
NEO2020 YE
Base SalaryTarget LTI
Opportunity PUs (#) PUs ($) MSUs (#) MSUs ($) LTI Value
Butier(1) $1,200,000 585% 17,886 $3,537,766 16,245 $3,509,903 $7,047,669
Lovins $ 618,000 250% 3,936 $ 778,523 3,575 $ 772,438 $1,550,961
Baker-Nel $ 400,000 120% 1,223 $ 241,884 1,111 $ 240,066 $ 481,950
Stander(2) $ 555,129 180% 2,750 $ 505,487 2,312 $ 499,531 $1,005,018
Walker $ 415,000 120% 1,269 $ 251,026 1,152 $ 248,901 $ 499,927
(1) For Mr. Butier, the Committee determined to use his increased base salary approved in February 2021 to give effect to the longer-term compensation app roach it
approved for him at that time.
(2) On March 1, 2021, in addition to his annual award of PUs tied primarily to RBIS’ performance, Mr. Stander received a one-time special award of 2,547 PUs w ith a
fair market value $503,784 based on the same performance objectives, weightings and targets as the annual award of PUs granted to our corporate NEOs (5 0%
relative TSR and 50% total company EVA).
70 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison Corporation2021 VESTING OF PREVIOUSLY GRANTED LTI AWARDS
2019-2021 PUs Eligible for Vesting
The PUs granted to our NEOs in February 2019 were eligible to vest at the end of 2021 based (i) for our corporate
NEOs, 50% on our company’s cumulative three-year EVA and 50% on our three-year relative TSR compared to a peergroup
§of companies determined using the same criteria used for the 2021-2023 PUs; and (ii) for our business NEO, 75%
on RBIS’ cumulative three-year EVA and 25% on our relative TSR. The key goal-setting principle in setting cumulativeEVA targets was consistency with our 2017-2021 financial targets for earnings growth and ROTC, which the Committee
believes translates into delivering above-average TSR.
The cumulative EVA target of $1,081 million for our corporate NEOs was consistent with our 2017-2021 financial
goals for organic sales growth and operating margin expansion and recognized that increasing sales and operatingmargin, together with balance sheet efficiency, are key drivers of EVA improvement. The cumulative EVA target was
approximately 43% higher than the cumulative EVA we achieved for the three-year period ending in 2018 . EVA
required for maximum payout – cumulative EVA of $1,148 million – was consistent with the high end of our long-termgrowth and operating margin targets. As shown below, we delivered cumulative EVA of $1,132 million for the 2019-2021 performance period, resulting in a payout of 176% for the EVA component for our corporate NEOs.
2019-2021 PU S: CORPORATE CUMULATIVE EVA
(In millions) 2019 2020 2021 Cumulative EVA
Adjusted EBIT(1) $ 777.0 $ 810.8 $1,012.1
Taxes(2) (191.1) (195.4) (253.0)
Equity method investment net losses (2.6) (3.7) (3.9)
583.3 611.7 755.2
Capital charge(3) (260.9) (281.7) (275.6)
EVA $ 322.4 $ 330.0 $ 479.6 $1,132.0
(1) Adjusted EBIT is a non-GAAP financial measure defined and reconciled from GAAP in the last section of this
proxy statement.
(2) The GAAP tax rates for 2019, 2020, and 2021 were (22.7)%, 24.1% and 25.0%, respectively. Taxes shown in thetable are based on adjusted tax rates of 24.6%, 24.1% and 25.0% for 2019, 2020 and 2021, respectively. Theadjusted tax rate represents the full-year GAAP rate, excluding certain unusual or infrequent events that are
expected to significantly impact the GAAP tax rate, such as impacts related to the termination of our U.S. pension
plan and the effects of discrete tax structuring and planning transactions.
(3) 8.5% of average invested capital of $3.07 billion, $3.31 billion and $3.24 billion for 2019, 2020 and 2021,respectively, using an annual five-point average (December of prior year and March, June, September andDecember of current year) of short- and long-term debt plus equity, adjusted to exclude the impact of acquisitions
completed since the target was set.
§The following companies comprised the peer group for the 2019-2021 PUs at the time of payout: Albermarle Corporation; AptarGroup, Inc.; Ashland Glob al Holdings
Inc.; Axalta Coating Systems Ltd.; Avient Corporation (formerly known as PolyOne Corporation); Ball Corporation; Berry Global Corp., Inc.; Celane se Corporation;
Clearwater Paper Corporation; Crown Holdings Inc.; Eastman Chemical Company; Ecolab Inc.; Ecovyst Inc. (formerly PQ Group Holdings Inc.); Element Solutions Inc.;
Ferro Corporation; GCP Applied Technologies Inc.; Graphic Packaging Holding Company; Greif Inc.; H.B. Fuller Company; Huntsman Corporation; Inge vity Corporation;
Innospec Inc.; International Flavors & Fragrances Inc.; Kraton Corporation; Minerals Technologies Inc.; Neenah, Inc.; NewMarket Corporation; O- I Glass, Inc.; Packaging
Corporation of America; PH Glatfelter Company; PPG Industries Inc.; Rayonier Advanced Materials Inc.; RPM International Inc.; Schweitzer- Maudui t International, Inc.;
Sealed Air Corporation; Sensient Technologies Corporation; Silgan Holdings Inc.; Sonoco Products Company; Stepan Company; The Chemours Company; The
Sherwin-Williams Company; Valhi Inc.; and WestRock Company.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 71Relative TSR for the 2019-2021 performance period was at the 93rdpercentile of the designated peer group,
resulting in a 200% payout for this component for all NEOs.
PUs for 2019-2021 performance period paid out at 188% for our corporate NEOs and 115% for our business NEO.
$976$1,081$1,148 $1,132
$400$600$800$1,000$1,200
Threshold
50%Target
100%Maximum
200%Actual
176%($ in millions)2019-2021 PUs:
Corporate Cumulative EVA
Payout:40th50th80th93rd
020406080100
Threshold
50%Target
100%Maximum
200%Actual
200%Percentile2019-2021 PUs:
Relative TSR
Payout:
MSUs Eligible for Vesting at YE 2021
Four tranches of MSUs were eligible for vesting at the end of 2021 based on our absolute TSR for the four-, three-,
two- and one-year performance periods shown below, with the number of shares paid out at vesting determined inaccordance with the formula shown below.
Stock price at settlement (avg. closing
price for trading days of January 2022) +
reinvested dividends during periodStock price at grant (avg. closing price for
trading days of January of year of grant)Payout at vesting ÷=
4TH TRANCHE OF MSUs GRANTED IN 2018 3RD TRANCHE OF MSUs GRANTED IN 2019
Performance period of 4 years Performance period of 3 years
2018-2021 Absolute TSR of 87% 2019-2021 Absolute TSR of 131%
Paid out at 200% of target Paid out at 200% of target
2ND TRANCHE OF MSUs GRANTED IN 2020 1ST TRANCHE OF MSUs GRANTED IN 2021
Performance period of 2 years Performance period of 1 year
2020-2021 Absolute TSR of 64% 2021 Absolute TSR of 33%
Paid out at 183% of target Paid out at 135% of target
PERQUISITES
Our NEOs receive the perquisites shown in the chart below. We do not reimburse our NEOs for the tax consequences
of their receipt of these perquisites.
LIMITED PERQUISITES
Perquisite Description and Limitations Benefit to Stockholders
Executive Benefit
Allowance$70,000 for CEO, $65,000 for our Level 2 NEOs and
$50,000 for our Level 3 NEOs; amounts have neverincreased since program inception; taxable with nogross-upFlat allowance reduces expense of administering a
variety of separate perquisites
Financial PlanningAnnual reimbursement of up to $25,000 for our CEO
and $15,000 for our Level 2 NEOs; taxable with nogross-upAllows senior executives to focus on job duties
Annual Physical
ExaminationPaid directly to the service provider only to the extent
received; as such, not taxableHelps ensure company leaders maintain good overall
health
72 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationGENERAL BENEFITS
Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Benefits
Our NEOs are eligible to participate in our nonqualified deferred compensation plan, which allows eligible U.S.
employees to defer up to 75% of their base salary and up to 90% of their AIP award. The plan provides NEOs and othereligible employees with a long-term capital accumulation opportunity because deferred amounts accumulate on a pre-tax
basis. Participating executives may select from a number of investment options . Our deferred compensation plan does
not offer above-market interest rates. Deferrals are 100% vested.
We made an annual contribution as of January 1, 2021 to the deferred compensation accounts of our U.S. NEOs for
401(k) eligible earnings and deferred compensation in 2020 in excess of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended(the “Code”) compensation limit. This annual contribution provided an automatic contribution of 3% of pay and a
matching contribution of up to 50% of the first 7% of pay above the Code compensation limit. This benefit is designed to
supplement 401(k) contributions that are limited under the Code.
For additional information regarding our deferred compensation plan and accrued NEO benefits thereunder, see 2021
Nonqualified Deferred Compensation inExecutive Compensation Tables .
Retirement Benefits
Of our NEOs, only Messrs. Butier and Lovins were eligible for retirement benefits under our U.S. pension plan and are
eligible for retirement benefits under our benefit restoration plan, a nonqualified excess benefit plan, in each case subjectto the same terms and conditions as our other eligible U.S. employees. We terminated our U.S. pension plan in
September 2018 and, because the accrual of benefits under the benefit restoration plan was frozen as of year-end 2010,
none of our eligible NEOs accrued additional retirement benefits during 2021. For additional information regarding thebenefit restoration plan and accrued NEO benefits thereunder, see 2021 Pension Benefits inExecutive Compensation
Tables .
Defined Contribution Benefits
Our NEOs are eligible to participate in our employee savings plan, a qualified 401(k) plan that permits U.S. employees
to defer up to 100% of their eligible earnings less payroll deductions on a pre-tax basis and 25% of their eligible earningson an after-tax basis, subject to the annual limit prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for the aggregate of
company contributions and employee pre- and post-tax contributions. Employee deferrals are immediately vested upon
contribution. In 2021, we contributed up to 6.5% of an employee’s eligible compensation, 3% of which was an automaticcontribution and up to 3.5% of which was a matching contribution of 50% of the employee’s contributions up to 7% ofpay, subject to the federal compensation limit. Participants vest in company contributions to their savings plan account
after two years of service.
Employees are immediately eligible to participate in the savings plan and all NEOs participated in 2021. Our NEOs
participate in the plan subject on the terms and conditions as our other U.S. employees.
Life Insurance Benefits
In addition to the $50,000 in life insurance benefits we provide to all U.S. employees, our NEOs are provided with
supplemental life insurance benefits equal to three times the NEO’s base salary less $50,000, up to a maximum coverageamount of $1 million.
Executive Long-Term Disability Insurance Benefits
If our NEOs elect to enroll in executive long-term disability coverage, their long-term disability benefit is equal to 65%
of their eligible pre-disability monthly earnings up to a maximum of $25,000 per month. Coverage is available only for theNEO; their dependents are not covered.
Personal Excess Liability Insurance Benefits
We provide $3 million of personal excess liability insurance coverage to our NEOs. Personal excess liability coverage
provides an additional layer of liability coverage that supplements the coverage provided by the individual’s personalliability insurance. To receive any benefit from this excess liability insurance, the NEO must maintain certain minimum
coverage requirements under his or her personal liability policy.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 73Charitable Match Benefits
We match up to $10,000 of our CEO’s and $5,000 of our other NEOs’ annual documented contributions to charitable
organizations or educational institutions.
SEVERANCE BENEFITS
None of our NEOs has an employment contract, and each is employed at-will, which reflects our pay-for-performance
philosophy; if an NEO is no longer performing at the expected level, he or she can be terminated immediately withoutreceiving a contractually guaranteed payment. However, consistent with market practices, the Committee believes that
providing our executives with severance benefits helps ensure that they act in the best interests of our company and
stockholders, even if doing so may be contrary to their personal interests, such as where it could lead to termination oftheir employment or a change of control of our company.
The compensation of our NEOs in the event of termination not for cause is governed by our Amended and Restated
Executive Severance Plan (the “Severance Plan”) and, as applicable, our Amended and Restated Key Employee Change of
Control Severance Plan (the “COC Severance Plan”). We use these plans rather than individually negotiated agreementsto provide us with the flexibility to change the severance benefits for which applicable NEOs are eligible to reflect marketpractices without the need to obtain their individual consent. In addition, this plan-based approach eliminates the timeand expense it would require to individually negotiate separation payments and ensures that eligible NEOs receive
benefits on the same terms and conditions as employees with similar levels of responsibility. Receipt of benefits under
these plans is conditioned on the executive signing a waiver and general release of claims against our company, as wellas agreeing to non-competition, non-solicitation, and non-disclosure covenants in favor of our company. Any violation ofthese covenants could result in our company seeking to recover some or all severance benefits previously paid orpursuing any other claims that may be appropriate under the circumstances.
Unvested equity awards outstanding on the date of termination are generally cancelled, except for employees who
qualify as retirement eligible under the terms of our equity incentive plans, whose awards are accelerated upontermination of service.
For additional information regarding potential NEO benefits under these plans, including the treatment of equity
awards under various termination scenarios, see Payments Upon Termination as of January 1, 2022 inExecutive
Compensation Tables .
Severance Following Involuntary Termination Not for Cause
Our NEOs are eligible to receive severance benefits upon involuntary termination not for “cause,” in accordance with
the terms and conditions of the Severance Plan. In the event of a qualifying termination, our CEO would be eligible to
receive two times the sum of his annual salary, target AIP award for the year of termination and the cash value of
12 months of his qualified medical and dental insurance premiums; our other NEOs would be eligible to receive one
times their respective sum of these amounts . NEOs would also be eligible to receive up to $25,000 in outplacement
services for up to one year following termination of employment. Any payments made under the Severance Plan wouldbe offset by any payments received by the NEO under any statutory, legislative and regulatory requirement or, if
applicable, the COC Severance Plan.
Severance Following Change of Control
Messrs. Butier, Lovins, and Stander are eligible for severance payments upon termination not for “cause” or by the
executive for “good reason” within 24 months of a “change of control” of our company, in accordance with the terms andconditions of the COC Severance Plan. As Level 3 NEOs, Ms. Baker-Nel and Mr. Walker are not eligible for benefits under
this plan. In the event of a qualifying termination following a change of control, our CEO would be eligible to receive
three times the sum of his annual salary, target AIP award for the year of termination and the cash value of12 months of his qualified medical and dental insurance premiums; our Level 2 NEOs would be eligible to receive twotimes their respective sum of these amounts . These NEOs would also be eligible to receive a prorated AIP award for the
year of termination and up to $25,000 in outplacement services for up to one year following termination of employment.
Any payments under the COC Severance Plan would be offset by any payments received by the NEO under the
Severance Plan and any other statutory, legislative and regulatory requirement.
Under our equity incentive plans, unvested equity awards granted to our NEOs would generally vest only if the NEO
is terminated without “cause” or resigns for “good reason” within 24 months after the change of control. Outstanding
PUs and MSUs vest based on actual performance, if determinable, and otherwise based on target performance.
74 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationParticipating NEOs are not eligible to receive any excise tax gross-up on amounts payable under the COC Severance
Plan. If the NEO would otherwise incur excise taxes under Section 4999 of the Code, payments under the COC SeverancePlan would be reduced so that no excise taxes would be due if the reduction results in a greater after-tax benefit to theNEO.
COMPENSATION-SETTING TOOLS
Market Survey Data
The Committee annually considers market survey data to target TDC, looking at companies of similar size based on
annual revenues that span all industries to reflect the broad talent market across which we seek our executives. TheCommittee reviews results from a third-party survey to understand market compensation practices and assess ourcompetitiveness, narrowing the scope of the results to account for variations caused by company size.
In February 2021, the Committee was presented with industry-wide data from the most recent WTW U.S.
Compensation General Industry Database, which was narrowed in scope to focus on data of the 68 participants with
$6 billion to $10 billion in annual revenue. The Committee reviewed the data with executive matches based on job andfunctional responsibility on an aggregated basis, with no consideration of the survey’s component companies, which werenot determined or known by the Committee.
The Committee uses the survey data as a reference point to target TDC and the components thereof, giving
consideration to median pay at similarly sized companies, responsibilities, individual performance, tenure, retention and
succession.
Peer Groups
For determining our relative TSR for purposes of the vesting of the 2019-2021 PUs and the grant of the 2021-2023
PUs, the Committee used a peer group comprised of U.S. companies satisfying objective criteria for industry classification
and revenue size, the names of which are disclosed earlier in this CD&A. The Committee does not utilize a peer group forany other purpose.
Tally Sheets
The Committee annually reviews tally sheets that reflect the components of each NEO’s compensation. The tally
sheets reviewed in February 2022 included the information shown below for each of the most recent three fiscal years.
• Compensation history, including annual cash compensation (base salary and AIP awards), LTI awards, value of
vested LTI awards, and annualized cost of benefits and perquisites
• Expected value of annual compensation, including base salary, AIP award and grant date fair value of LTI awards
• Accumulated value of compensation, including total accumulated value of LTI awards and accumulated benefit
values under retirement and deferred compensation plans
• Potential payments under various termination scenarios• Compliance with stock ownership policy
The Committee believes that reviewing tally sheets is useful in determining executive compensation because they
provide a historical perspective on NEO compensation and include information that will be contained in our proxy
statement.
INDEPENDENT OVERSIGHT AND EXPERTISE
Our Board believes that retaining our executives and providing them with market-competitive compensation are
essential to the success of our company and advancing the interests of our stockholders. The Committee, which iscomprised solely of independent directors, is responsible for approving executive compensation. The Committee may
delegate authority to subcommittees or, in certain circumstances not related to the compensation of our executive
officers, to our CEO.
Under its charter, the Committee has authority, in its sole discretion and at our expense, to obtain advice and
assistance from external advisors. The Committee may retain and terminate any compensation consultant or otherexternal advisor and has sole authority to approve the advisor’s fees and other terms and conditions of the retention. In
retaining its advisors, the Committee considers each advisor’s independence from management, as required by NYSE
listing standards.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 75During 2021, the Committee retained WTW as its independent compensation consultant, with the firm performing
the services described below for the Committee.
WTW 2021 SERVICES
• Assisted with setting target TDC for our CEO, including the longer-term compensation approach
implemented in 2021
• Evaluated a proxy advisory firm’s pay-for-performance analysis• Commented on our 2021 CD&A
• Provided incentive compensation advice (including recommending relative TSR peer group for the 2021-
2023 PUs)
• Conducted analyses of share utilization and stockholder value transfer related to LTI compensation
• Advised on compensation for our non-employee directors
• Advised on incentive compensation related to our Vestcom acquisition• Prepared for, attended and reviewed documentation for Committee meetings
In 2021, WTW received $127,927 in compensation from our company for professional services performed for or at
the request of the Committee. We also reimbursed the firm for its reasonable expenses.
The Committee conducted its annual assessment of WTW’s performance in October 2021, which included an
evaluation of its services and fees year-to-date, and the additional criteria described below.
• Experience – The firm’s depth and breadth of executive compensation knowledge and experience; qualification
as a board-level consultant; quality of resources available; and understanding of our business strategy, issues,industry, performance drivers and human capital considerations
• Independence –The firm’s objectivity in giving advice and making recommendations, and its willingness to
provide candid feedback regarding management and Committee proposals, questions and concerns
• Preparation – The quality and timeliness of the firm’s reports, including accuracy, type and amount of
information, and responsiveness to issues); its review and feedback on management proposals; and the firm’s
preparation with the Committee Chair and our management
• Committee Relationship – The accessibility and availability of members of the engagement team; the firm’s
reporting relationship with the Committee Chair and its working relationship with our human resources team;and the effectiveness of its communication
Based on this evaluation, the Committee determined that it remained satisfied with the performance of WTW and the
individual members of the engagement team serving the Committee.
Advisor Independence
WTW and the Committee have had the following protocols in place since the engagement commenced to ensure the
firm’s independence from management: the Committee has the sole authority to select, retain and terminate WTW,
authorize the firm’s fees and determine the terms and conditions that govern the engagement ; the Committee directs
WTW on the process for delivery and communication of its work product, including its analyses, findings, conclusions and
recommendations; in the performance and evaluation of its duties, WTW is accountable, and reports directly, to the
Committee ; and members of the Committee may consult with WTW at any time, with or without members of
management present, at their sole discretion.
As required by SEC regulations and NYSE listing standards, the Committee considered the independence of its
advisors – including WTW and the law firms providing executive compensation counsel to the Committee and/or ourcompany – in October 2021. The Committee reviewed the information provided by WTW described below.
• WTW performed no services for our company in 2021 other than executive compensation services performed at
the request of the Committee
• Fees from our company reflected approximately 0.001% of WTW’s revenue for its fiscal year ended
December 31, 2021
76 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison Corporation• WTW has several policies and procedures to ensure its advice is objective and independent, including a
comprehensive code of conduct and ethics and quality policies that mandate rigorous work reviews and periodiccompliance reviews, which the firm has represented to the Committee are highly effective
• Based on disclosures from WTW and members of the Committee, there are no business or personal
relationships between them
• No members of the WTW team serving the Committee own stock in our company, other than potentially through
investments in mutual or other funds managed without the member’s input
• Based on disclosures from the firm and our executive officers, there are no business or personal relationships
between WTW or the members of the engagement team advising the Committee with any executive officer of
our company
OTHER CONSIDERATIONS
Clawback Policy
In the event of fraud or other intentional misconduct on the part of an NEO that necessitates a restatement of our
financial results (including, without limitation, any accounting restatement due to material noncompliance with any
financial reporting requirement), the NEO would be required to reimburse our company for any AIP or LTI awards paid or
granted in excess of the amount that would have been paid or granted based on the restated financial results. Theseremedies would be in addition to, not instead of, any other actions taken by our company (through the imposition of anydiscipline up to and including termination), law enforcement agencies, regulators or other authorities. This clawbackpolicy is contractually acknowledged by our NEOs upon the execution of their LTI award agreements.
Our clawback policy is designed to subject incentive compensation to forfeiture if our financial results are not
achieved consistent with our high ethical standards. This policy is expressly incorporated into our AIP and LTI plans. TheCommittee will revise the policy as necessary to comply with final rules issued by the SEC, which are currently expectedto be issued in 2022.
Tax Implications of Executive Compensation
The Committee aims to compensate our NEOs in a manner that is tax effective for our company. However, the
Committee may, in its discretion, adopt or implement compensation programs and/or practices that are not fully tax
deductible if it believes that doing so is in the best interests of our company and stockholders.
Section 162(m) of the Code
Following the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA), for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2018,
compensation in excess of $1 million paid to executive officers covered by Section 162(m) of the Code (“Section 162(m)”)generally is not deductible, unless it qualifies for limited transition relief under the TCJA. To qualify for transition relief,
compensation must, among other things, have been payable pursuant to a written binding contract that was in effect on
November 2, 2017 and not subsequently modified in any material respect.
While in the past we have structured certain of our incentive compensation in a manner intended to be tax-deductible
for purposes of Section 162(m), due to the TCJA and the uncertainties in the application of Section 162(m), as amendedby the TCJA, and the regulations thereunder, there is no guarantee that any deductions claimed under Section 162(m) will
not be challenged or disallowed by the IRS and our ability to deduct compensation under Section 162(m) may be
restricted. Furthermore, although the Committee believes that the deductibility of executive compensation is a relevantconsideration and may continue to consider the effects of Section 162(m) on our future pay practices, it reserves the rightto approve incentive compensation that is not fully tax deductible, and/or modify executive compensation without regardto tax deductibility, if it believes that doing so is in the best interests of our company and stockholders.
Section 409A of the Code
Nonqualified deferred compensation must be deferred and paid under plans or arrangements that satisfy the
requirements of Section 409A of the Code with respect to the timing of deferral elections and payments and certain othermatters. Failure to satisfy these requirements could expose individuals to accelerated income tax liabilities, penalty taxes
and interest on their compensation deferred under these plans. As a general matter, we design and administer our
compensation and benefit plans and arrangements in a manner intended to cause them to be either exempt from, orsatisfy the requirements of, Section 409A of the Code.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 77EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION TABLES
2021 SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE
This table shows the compensation of our NEOs in accordance with SEC regulations. Compensation as shown in the
table does not reflect the compensation actually realized by our NEOs for these years.
Name and
Principal Position Year Salary(1)Stock
Awards(2)Non-Equity
Incentive Plan
Compensation(3)Change In
Pension Value
and NQDC
EarningsAll Other
Compensation(4) Total
Mitchell R. Butier
Chairman, President & 2021 $1,183,250 $7,047,669 $3,360,000 $662,480 $180,322 $12,433,721
Chief Executive Officer 2020 $1,133,000 $5,598,133 $1,331,275 $464,100 $182,840 $ 8,709,348
2019 $1,133,000 $5,358,043 $1,288,788 $508,024 $207,177 $ 8,495,032
Gregory S. Lovins
Senior Vice President & 2021 $ 650,445 $1,550,961 $ 991,890 $133,115 $126,497 $ 3,452,908Chief Financial Officer 2020 $ 618,000 $1,232,041 $ 653,535 $ 76,327 $125,223 $ 2,705,126
2019 $ 613,500 $1,493,462 $ 421,785 $ 81,676 $126,425 $ 2,736,848
Deena Baker-Nel
(5) 2021 $ 412,000 $ 481,950 $ 416,000 $ 87,340 $104,164 $ 1,501,454
Vice President & Chief HR Officer
Deon M. Stander
Vice President & 2021 $ 565,537 $1,508,802 $ 635,012 $142,139 $124,331 $ 2,975,821
General Manager, RBIS 2020 $ 555,129 $ 791,699 $ 379,708 $120,727 $122,642 $ 1,969,906
2019 $ 551,086 $ 963,728 $ 363,887 $105,550 $143,172 $ 2,127,423
Ignacio J. Walker(5) 2021 $ 422,781 $ 499,927 $ 425,375 $ 320 $ 91,282 $ 1,439,685
Vice President & Chief Legal Officer
(1) Amounts include any portions of salary contributed to our employee savings plan or deferred under our deferred compensation plan. Changes in base sal ary, if
any, become effective in April.
(2) Amounts in 2021 include the grant date fair value of PUs, which are paid out in shares of our common stock at the end of a three-year period provided that th e
designated performance objectives are achieved as of the end of the period. The number of shares paid out at vesting can range from 0% to 200% of the targe t
units at the time of grant. The performance objectives that determine the number of shares that may be earned for the PUs granted in 2021 are (i) cumulati ve
EVA (weighted 50% based on our total company for our corporate NEOs and 75% based on our RBIS business for our business NEO), which is a performance
condition under Accounting Standards Codification Topic 718, Compensation-Stock Compensation (ASC 718), and (ii) relative TSR (weighted 50% for our
corporate NEOs and 25% for our business NEO), compared to a peer group of companies determined based on GICS code and revenue size, which is a marketcondition under ASC 718, in each case computed over the 2021-2023 performance period. The performance condition component of the fair value of PUs wasdetermined based on the fair market value of our common stock on the grant date, adjusted for foregone dividends during the performance period. The max imum
grant date fair values of the performance condition component of PUs were $3,565,710, $784,659, $761,308 and $252,853 for Messrs. Butier, Lovins, St ander
and Walker respectively, and $243,921 for Ms. Baker-Nel. The market condition component of the fair value of PUs was determined as of the date of grant u sing
the Monte-Carlo simulation method, which utilizes multiple input variables to estimate the probability of meeting the performance objectives esta blished for the
award, including the expected volatility of our stock price relative to the group of peer companies listed on page 69 of this proxy statement at the end o f the
three-year performance period and a risk-free interest rate of 0.23% derived from linear interpolation of the term structure of Treasury Constant Ma turities yield
rates for the period; as such, their maximum grant date fair values were the same as their target grant date fair values shown in the table. Based on theMonte-Carlo simulation method, the grant date fair value of the market condition component of the PUs was 131.65% of our average stock price on the gran t
date. The grant date fair values of the market condition component of the PUs were $1,754,911, $386,188, $374,733 and $124,599 for Messrs. Butier, Lov ins,
Stander and Walker, respectively, and $119,924 for Ms. Baker-Nel.
Amounts in 2021 also include the grant date fair value of MSUs, which are paid out in shares of our common stock over one-, two-, three- and four-year
performance periods provided that the designated performance objective is achieved as of the end of each period. The number of shares paid out at each v esting
date can range from 0% to 200% of one-quarter of the target units on the grant date. The single performance objective that determines the number of units that
may be paid out for MSUs is our absolute TSR, which is a market condition under ASC 718; as such, their maximum grant date fair values were the same as their
target grant date fair values shown in the table. The grant date fair value was 121.68% of our average stock price on the grant date and determined using t he
Monte-Carlo simulation method, which utilizes multiple input variables to estimate the probability of meeting the performance objective establis hed for the award,
including the expected volatility of our stock price and risk-free interest rates of 0.08%, 0.12%, 0.23% and 0.42% for the first, second, third and fou rth MSU
tranches, respectively, derived from linear interpolation of the term structure of Treasury Constant Maturities yield rates for the respective per formance periods.
The grant date fair values of MSUs were $3,509,903, $772,438, $499,531 and $248,901 for Messrs. Butier, Lovins, Stander and Walker, respectively, an d
$240,066 for Ms. Baker-Nel.
Amount for Mr. Stander also includes grant date for value of additional PUs granted in 2021. The performance objectives, weightings and targets for th is special
one-time award were the same as the 2021-2023 PUs granted to our corporate NEOs described above. The maximum grant date fair value of the performancecondition component of these 2021-2023 PUs was $507,767 and the grant date fair value of the market condition component of these PUs was $249,900.
(3) Amounts reflect cash AIP awards for the applicable year, which are determined in February and paid in March of the following year.
(4) The table shown on the following page shows the components of these amounts for 2021.
78 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationPerquisites Benefits
NameExecutive
Benefit
AllowanceFinancial
PlanningExecutive
Physical OtherCompany
Contribution/
Match,
Savings
PlanCompany
Contributions,
Deferred
Comp. PlanCompany
Match
Charitable
ContributionExcess
Life
InsuranceExecutive
Long-Term
Disability
InsuranceExecutive
Group
Term Life
InsuranceExcess
Executive
Liability
Insurance Total
Butier $70,000 – – – $18,850 $73,387 $10,000 $1,944 $2,619 $2,622 $900 $180,322
Lovins $65,000 – – – $18,850 $31,927 $ 3,547 $1,944 $2,619 $1,710 $900 $126,497
Baker-Nel $50,000 – – $3,795* $18,850 $18,783 $ 5,000 $1,944 $2,270 $2,622 $900 $104,164
Stander $65,000 – – – $18,462 $32,784 – $1,944 $2,619 $2,622 $900 $124,331
Walker $50,000 – $3,125 – $18,850 $14,446 – $1,944 $ 307 $1,710 $900 $ 91,282
* Other for Ms. Baker-Nel reflects miscellaneous carryover living expenses related to her previous international assignment in the Netherlands, wh ich includes
$1,025 tax equalization gross-up.
(5) Ms. Baker-Nel and Mr. Walker became NEOs in 2021. As permitted by SEC rules, the table shows their compensation beginning in the year in which they becam e
NEOs.
2021 GRANTS OF PLAN-BASED AWARDS
The table below provides information regarding grants of plan-based incentive awards made to our NEOs during
2021.
Estimated Future Payouts
Under Non-Equity
Incentive Plan Awards ($)(1)Estimated Future Payouts
Under Equity
Incentive Plan Awards (#)(2)All Other
Stock
Awards:
Number of
Shares of
Stock
Units(#)Grant Date
Fair Value
of Stock
and Option
Awards ($)(3) NameAward
TypeGrant
Date Threshold Target Maximum Threshold Target Maximum
Mitchell R. Butier
MSUs 03/01/21 – – – 13,808 16,245 32,490 – $3,509,903
PUs 03/01/21 – – – 8,943 17,886 35,772 – $3,537,766
AIP Award – $336,000 $1,680,000 $3,360,000 – – – – –
Gregory S. Lovins
MSUs 03/01/21 – – – 3,039 3,575 7,150 – $ 772,438
PUs 03/01/21 – – – 1,968 3,936 7,872 – $ 778,523
AIP Award – $ 99,189 $ 495,945 $ 991,890 – – – – –
Deena Baker-Nel
MSUs 03/01/21 – – – 944 1,111 2,222 – $ 240,066
PUs 03/01/21 – – – 611 1,223 2,446 – $ 241,884
AIP Award – $ 41,600 $ 208,000 $ 416,000 – – – – –
Deon M. Stander(4)
MSUs 03/01/21 – – – 1,965 2,312 4,624 – $ 499,531
PUs 03/01/21 – – – 1,375 2,750 5,500 – $ 505,487
Special PUs 03/01/21 – – – 1,273 2,547 5,094 $ 503,784
AIP Award – $ 42,538 $ 341,404 $ 682,808 – – – – –
Ignacio J. Walker
MSUs 03/01/21 – – – 979 1,152 2,304 – $ 248,901
PUs 03/01/21 – – – 634 1,269 2,538 – $ 251,026
AIP Award – $ 68,281 $ 212,688 $ 425,376 – – – – –
(1) Amounts represent threshold, target and maximum opportunities under the 2021 AIP. Target AIP awards are established by multiplying each NEO’s base s alary at
the end of 2021 by the following target opportunities: 140% for Mr. Butier; 75% for Mr. Lovins; 60% for Mr. Stander; and 50% for Ms. Baker-Nel and Mr. Walk er.
Payout levels range from zero for below-threshold performance; 20% for threshold performance based on a threshold of 0% for profitability performan ce
objective(s) and a threshold of 50% for other performance objectives; 100% for target performance with respect to each of the performance objectives ; and 200%
for maximum performance with respect to each of the performance objectives.
(2) Amounts for MSUs represent threshold, target and maximum opportunities, which are paid out in shares of our common stock over one-, two-, three- and fo ur-
year performance periods provided that the absolute TSR performance objective is achieved as of the end of each period. The actual number of shares pai d out at
each vesting date can range from 0% to 200% of one-fourth of the target number of units on the grant date, with a threshold payout of 85%. MSUs accrue
dividend equivalents during the performance period, which are earned and paid only at vesting.
Amounts for PUs represent threshold, target and maximum opportunities for the 2021-2023 PUs, which are paid out in shares of our common stock at the end of
the three-year performance period provided that the respective cumulative EVA and relative TSR performance objectives are achieved at the end of the period. The
actual number of shares paid out can range from 0% to 200% of the target number of units on the grant date, with a payout of 50% if threshold performance isachieved with respect to each of the performance objectives.
(3) The grant date fair value of MSUs was determined using the Monte-Carlo simulation method, which utilizes multiple input variables, including expect ed volatility of
our stock price and other assumptions appropriate for determining fair value, to estimate the probability of satisfying the performance objective e stablished for the
award.
The grant date fair value for the performance condition component of PUs was determined based on the fair market value of our common stock on the grant da te,
adjusted for foregone dividends during the performance period. The grant date fair value for the market condition component of PUs was determined as o f the
grant date using the Monte-Carlo simulation method described above.
For information on the inputs to the Monte-Carlo simulation method, see footnote (2) of the 2021 Summary Compensation Table. For additional information
regarding the assumptions we use for our stock-based compensation, see Note 12, “Long-Term Incentive Compensation,” to the consolidated financial statements
contained in our 2021 Annual Report.
(4) On March 1, 2021, in addition to his annual grant of PUs tied primarily to RBIS’ performance, Mr. Stander was granted a special one-time award of 2021-20 23
PUs with a fair market value of $503,784 based 50% on our relative TSR and 50% on our total company EVA, the same performance objectives, weightings andtargets as the 2021-2023 PUs granted to our corporate NEOs.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 792021 OUTSTANDING EQUITY AWARDS AT FISCAL YEAR-END
The table below shows NEO equity awards outstanding as of January 1, 2022, the end of our 2021 fiscal year.
Option Awards Stock Awards
NameGrant
DateNumber of
Securities
Underlying
Unexercised
Options –
Exercisable (#)Number of
Securities
Underlying
Unexercised
Options –
Unexercisable (#)Option
Exercise
Price ($)Option
Expiration
DateNumber
of Shares
or Units
of Stock
That
Have Not
Vested
(#)Market
Value of
Shares or
Units of
Stock That
Have Not
Vested ($)(1)Equity
Incentive
Plan Awards:
Number of
Unearned
Shares, Units or
Other Rights
That Have Not
Vested (#)Equity
Incentive
Plan Awards:
Market or
Payout Value
of Unearned
Shares, Units or
Other Rights
That Have Not
Vested ($)(1)
Mitchell R. Butier
06/01/16 141,108 – $73.96 06/01/26 – – – –
02/22/18 – – – – – – 11,848(2) $ 2,565,921
02/28/19 – – – – – – 45,071(3) $ 9,761,027
02/28/19 – – – – – – 20,333(2) $ 4,403,518
02/27/20 – – – – – – 38,182(3) $ 8,269,076
02/27/20 – – – – – – 32,406(2) $ 7,018,167
03/01/21 – – – – – – 35,772(3) $ 7,747,142
03/01/21 – – – – – – 30,061(2) $ 6,510,311
141,108 – – – – – 213,673 $46,275,162
Gregory S. Lovins
02/22/18 – – – – – – 2,424(2) $ 524,966
02/28/19 – – – – – – 12,562(3) $ 2,720,552
02/28/19 – – – – – – 5,668(2) $ 1,227,519
02/27/20 – – – – – – 10,960(3) $ 2,373,607
02/27/20 – – – – – – 9,312(2) $ 2,016,700
03/01/21 – – – – – – 7,872(3) $ 1,704,839
03/01/21 – – – – – – 6,616(2) $ 1,432,827
– – – – – – 55,414 $12,001,010
Deena Baker-Nel
02/22/18 – – – – – – 631(2) $ 136,656
02/28/19 – – – – – – 3,340(3) $ 723,344
02/28/19 – – – – – – 1,358(2) $ 294,102
02/27/20 – – – – – – 2,864(3) $ 620,256
02/27/20 – – – – – – 2,432(2) $ 526,698
03/01/21 – – – – – – 2,446(2) $ 529,730
03/01/21 – – – – – – 2,056(3) $ 445,268
– – – – 15,127 $ 3,276,054
Deon M. Stander
02/22/18 – – – – – – 1,939(2) $ 419,929
02/28/19 – – – – – – 8,176(3) $ 1,770,676
02/28/19 – – – – – – 3,667(2) $ 794,162
02/27/20 – – – – – – 7,174(3) $ 1,553,673
02/27/20 – – – – – – 6,022(2) $ 1,304,185
03/01/21 – – – – – – 5,500(3) $ 1,191,135
03/01/21 – – – – – – 5,094(3) $ 1,103,208
03/01/21 – – – – – – 4,278(2) $ 926,486
– – – – – – 41,850 $ 9,063,454
Ignacio J. Walker
02/22/18 – – – – – – 791(2) $ 171,307
02/28/19 – – – – – – 3,092(3) $ 669,634
02/28/19 – – – – – – 1,397(2) $ 302,548
02/27/20 – – – – – – 2,698(3) $ 584,306
02/27/20 – – – – – – 2,293(2) $ 496,595
09/01/20 – – – – 1,734 $375,532 – –03/01/21 – – – – – – 2,538
(3) $ 549,655
03/01/21 – – – – – – 2,132(2) $ 461,727
– – – – 1,734 $375,532 14,941 $ 3,235,772
(1) Market value calculated based on the closing price of our common stock of $216.57 on December 31, 2021, the last trading day of our 2021 fiscal year.
(2) MSUs are eligible for vesting over one-, two-, three- and four-year performance periods, subject to achievement of the absolute TSR performance obje ctive
established for the award. Amounts are shown at (i) 200%, 200%, 183% and 135% of target for the vesting tranches of the MSUs granted in 2018, 2019, 2020
and 2021, respectively, the payouts for all NEOs based on our actual performance for the respective performance periods as determined by the Compensa tion
Committee in February 2022 and (ii) the maximum level of performance for the remaining tranches of the MSUs granted in 2019, 2020 and 2021 as actualperformance through January 1, 2022 would result in above-target payouts.
(3) PUs are eligible for vesting at the end of a three-year performance period, subject to achievement of the respective performance objectives establis hed for the
award. Amounts are shown at (i) 188% of target for the 2019-2021 PUs for corporate NEOs, and 115% of target for the 2019-2021 PUs for our business NEO,
which were the payouts based on our actual performance for the period as determined by the Compensation Committee in February 2022 and (ii) the maximum
level of performance for (A) the 2020-2022 PUs and 2021-2023 PUs for all NEOs and (B) the special one-time award of PUs granted to Mr. Stander in 2021, asactual performance through January 1, 2022 would result in above-target payouts.
80 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison Corporation2021 OPTION EXERCISES AND STOCK VESTED
The table below provides information regarding the number of shares acquired and the value realized by our NEOs
upon the vesting of stock awards during 2021.
Option Awards Stock Awards
NameNumber of Shares
Acquired
on Exercise (#)Value Realized
on Exercise ($)Number of Shares
Acquired
on Vesting (#)Value Realized
on Vesting ($)(1)
Mitchell R. Butier – – 73,772 $13,090,841
Gregory S. Lovins – – 16,477 $ 2,993,224
Deena Baker-Nel – – 4,523 $ 802,606
Deon M. Stander – – 10,591 $ 1,879,373
Ignacio J. Walker – – 5,932 $ 1,093,985
(1) Amounts reflect the number of shares acquired on vesting multiplied by the fair market value of our common stock on the vesting date, and include the ves ting of
the following stock awards. The number of shares acquired on vesting for MSUs includes the payout of accrued dividend equivalents.
NameAward
TypeGrant
DateNumber of
Units
Subject to
Vesting (#)Performance
Modifier (%)Number of
Shares
Acquired on
Vesting (#)Fair
Market
Value on
Vesting
Date ($)Value
Realized on
Vesting ($)
Butier
MSUs 02/23/17 6,394 200% 13,812 $177.45 $2,450,939MSUs 02/22/18 5,713 146% 8,842 $177.45 $1,569,013MSUs 02/28/19 4,952 197% 10,139 $177.45 $1,799,166MSUs 02/27/20 5,462 120% 6,693 $177.45 $1,187,673
PUs 02/22/18 23,324 147% 34,286 $177.45 $6,084,051
Lovins
RSUs 09/01/17 1,453 – 1,453 $225.20 $ 327,215
MSUs 02/23/17 676 200% 1,462 $177.45 $ 259,432
MSUs 02/22/18 1,168 146% 1,806 $177.45 $ 320,475MSUs 02/28/19 1,380 197% 2,826 $177.45 $ 501,474MSUs 02/27/20 1,571 120% 1,921 $177.45 $ 340,881
PUs 02/22/18 4,768 147% 7,009 $177.45 $1,243,747
Baker-Nel
MSUs 02/23/17 190 200% 413 $177.45 $ 73,287MSUs 02/22/18 304 146% 469 $177.45 $ 83,224MSUs 02/28/19 331 197% 676 $177.45 $ 119,956MSUs 02/27/20 410 120% 502 $177.45 $ 89,080
PUs 02/22/18 1,239 199% 2,463 $177.45 $ 437,059
Stander
MSUs 02/23/17 586 200% 1,266 $177.45 $ 224,652MSUs 02/22/18 935 146% 1,447 $177.45 $ 256,770MSUs 02/28/19 893 197% 1,827 $177.45 $ 324,201MSUs 02/27/20 1,016 120% 1,242 $177.45 $ 220,393
PUs 02/22/18 3,817 126% 4,809 $177.45 $ 853,357
Walker
RSUs 09/01/20 866 – 866 $225.20 $ 195,023
MSUs 02/23/17 476 200% 1,028 $177.45 $ 182,419MSUs 02/22/18 381 146% 588 $177.45 $ 104,341MSUs 02/28/19 340 197% 694 $177.45 $ 123,150MSUs 02/27/20 387 120% 472 $177.45 $ 83,756
PUs 02/22/18 1,554 147% 2,284 $177.45 $ 405,296
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 812021 PENSION BENEFITS
The present value of accumulated pension benefits shown in the table below has been calculated based on the
assumptions we used to calculate our pension benefit obligations in the consolidated financial statements contained inour 2021 Annual Report. Ms. Baker-Nel and Messrs. Stander and Walker are not included in the table because they haveno accumulated pension benefits.
Amounts shown reflect the lump-sum present value of the pension benefits accumulated as of January 1, 2022, the
last day of our fiscal year.
Name Plan NameNumber of Years of
Credited Service(#)Present Value of
Accumulated
Benefit(1)($)Payments During
Last Fiscal
Year(1)($)
Mitchell R. Butier Benefit Restoration Plan 9.33 $362,434 –
Gregory S. Lovins Benefit Restoration Plan 15.58 $ 48,937 –
(1) The Benefit Restoration Plan allows for lump-sum payment. For information regarding the assumptions we use to determine
the present value of accumulated benefits for our pension plans, see Note 6, “Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits,” tothe consolidated financial statements contained in our 2021 Annual Report.
Benefit Restoration Plan
Our Benefit Restoration Plan (BRP) is a nonqualified excess benefit plan that provides for the payment of
supplemental retirement benefits to eligible participants in an amount equal to the amount by which their benefits
payable under our now terminated U.S. pension plan would have been reduced under the Code. Messrs. Butier and
Lovins are our only NEOs eligible to receive benefits under the BRP. No accruals were made during 2021.
Compensation covered by the BRP includes base salary and AIP awards, up to applicable statutory limitations each
plan year. Employees vested in the BRP after five years of service, or at age 55 upon termination of employment. Benefits
under the BRP are based on pensionable earnings, length of service, when benefits commence and how they are paid.Benefits are calculated separately for each year of applicable service using a formula equal to 1.25% times compensationup to the breakpoint (which for each year prior to our freezing the accrual of additional benefits was the average of theSocial Security wage bases for the preceding 35 years) plus 1.75% times compensation in excess of the breakpoint. The
results of the calculation for each year of service are added together to determine the annual single life annuity benefit
under the BRP for an employee at normal retirement (generally age 65), which is not subject to reduction for SocialSecurity payments. Payments are in the form of a lump-sum distribution, unless a timely election is made for monthlypayments over the lifetime of the participant and, if applicable, a designated beneficiary, generally payable upon the laterof separation from service and age 55.
82 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison Corporation2021 NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION
The table below provides information regarding NEO and company contributions to our Executive Variable Deferred
Retirement Plan (EVDRP). Under the EVDRP, participants may choose among publicly available funds ranging frommoney market and bond funds to index and other equity/mutual funds. Their rate of return depends on the funds selectedby the participant.
NameExecutive
Contributions
in Last FY ($)Registrant
Contributions
in Last FY ($)(1)Aggregate
Earnings
in Last FY ($)(2)Aggregate
Withdrawals/
Distributions ($)Aggregate
Balance At
Last FYE ($)
Mitchell R. Butier – $73,387 $662,480 – $3,373,198
Gregory S. Lovins – $31,927 $133,115 – $ 596,615
Deena Baker-Nel $ 40,388 $18,783 $ 87,340 – $ 760,929
Deon M. Stander $132,495 $32,784 $142,088 – $1,178,921
Ignacio J. Walker – $14,446 $ 320 – $ 89,077
(1) Company contributions to the EVDRP are included in the “All Other Compensation” column of the 2021 Summary Compensation Table .
(2) Amounts reflect EVDRP vested account balances as of January 1, 2022, the last day of our 2021 fiscal year. Because the amounts do not represent above-ma rket
earnings, they are not reported in the 2021 Summary Compensation Table . The amounts shown below were reported under the “All Other Compensation” column
of the Summary Compensation Table in previous proxy statements.
NameAggregate Company Contributions
Previously Reported ($)
Butier $756,247
Lovins $147,788
Baker-Nel –
Stander $111,777
Walker –
Executive Variable Deferred Retirement Plan
The EVDRP is the only active deferred compensation plan available to our eligible U.S. employees. Earnings are based
on a fixed rate and/or the performance of variable bond and equity funds selected by the participant from availableoptions . The EVDRP does not offer investment options that provide above-market interest rates.
Eligible employees are able to defer U.S. taxes until their investment is withdrawn, providing an opportunity for them
to accumulate savings on a pre-tax basis. We also benefit from this arrangement because we can use this cash for othercorporate purposes until a deferred compensation account is paid to a participant based on his or her election to receivein-service withdrawals or after termination of employment.
All deferred compensation accounts are unfunded obligations of our company and subject to the same risks as any of
our general debts and obligations. As a result, these accounts help mitigate risk-seeking behavior by management thatcould be detrimental to the long-term health of our company.
Employee Contributions
Under the EVDRP, eligible employees can defer up to 75% of their salary and 90% of their AIP award. Deferrals are
immediately vested.
Company Contribution
As of January 1, 2021, we made a contribution to the deferred compensation accounts of eligible employees based on
401(k) eligible earnings in excess of the federal compensation limit and deferred compensation in 2020. This annualcontribution provided an automatic contribution of 3% of pay plus a matching contribution of 50% on the first 7% of pay
not covered by company contributions to our 401(k) Plan. This contribution was added to the deferred compensation
accounts of eligible employees employed at year-end 2020, which included all our NEOs. This benefit is designed tosupplement 401(k) contributions that are limited under federal law.
Withdrawals/Distributions
Contributions to deferred compensation accounts are required to be distributed following an eligible employee’s
separation from service. Subject to Section 409A of the Code, eligible employees may elect to receive separation from
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 83service withdrawals in the form of a lump-sum payment or monthly installments over two to 20 years. Eligible employees
may change the method in which payments are distributed provided that they do so at least 12 months before the date ofdistribution; however, any change results in the distribution occurring or beginning five years later than it would haveotherwise. All NEOs are “specified employees” under Section 409A. Distributions to specified employees cannot be madeuntil at least the seventh month after separation from service, except in the event of death.
PAYMENTS UPON TERMINATION AS OF JANUARY 1, 2022
The table below shows potential benefits that would have been payable to our NEOs in the event of termination on
January 1, 2022, the last day of our 2021 fiscal year. Amounts paid or distributed upon actual termination may differ fromamounts shown due to timing and any future changes to our benefit plans.
Termination Scenarios as of End of Fiscal Year 2021
Name Benefit DeathQualifying
DisabilityQualifying
RetirementInvoluntary
Termination
Not for
CauseTermination
within 24 Mos.
of Change of
Control
Mitchell R. Butier
Severance Payment – – – $ 5,808,720 $ 8,713,079Unvested PUs
(1) $ 4,047,549 $ 4,047,549 – – $ 8,008,109
Unvested MSUs(1) $ 3,240,074 $ 3,240,074 – – $ 6,249,951
Outplacement – – – $ 25,000 $ 25,000
Total $ 7,287,623 $ 7,287,623 – $ 5,833,720 $22,996,139
Value of Forfeited Equity(1) $(6,970,437) $(6,970,437) $(14,258,060) $(14,258,060) –
Gregory S. Lovins
Severance Payment – – – $ 1,181,565 $ 2,363,130
Unvested PUs(1) $ 1,075,342 $ 1,075,342 – – $ 2,039,223
Unvested MSUs(1) $ 858,595 $ 858,595 – – $ 1,606,267
Outplacement – – – $ 25,000 $ 25,000
Total $ 1,933,937 $ 1,933,937 – $ 1,206,565 $ 6,033,620
Value of Forfeited Equity(1) $(1,711,553) $(1,711,553) $ (3,645,490) $ (3,645,490) –
Deena Baker-Nel
Severance Payment – – – $ 648,360 $ 648,360Unvested PUs
(1) $ 295,041 $ 295,041 – – $ 574,993
Unvested MSUs(1) $ 229,875 $ 229,875 – – $ 442,299
Outplacement – – – $ 25,000 $ 25,000
Total $ 524,916 $ 524,916 – $ 673,360 $ 1,690,652
Value of Forfeited Equity(1) $ (492,376) $ (492,376) $ (1,017,292) $ (1,017,292) –
Deon M. Stander
Severance Payment – – – $ 934,771 $ 1,869,542Unvested PUs
(1) $ 900,281 $ 900,281 – – $ 1,924,008
Unvested MSUs(1) $ 555,627 $ 555,627 – – $ 1,039,203
Outplacement – – – $ 25,000 $ 25,000
Total $ 1,455,908 $ 1,455,908 – $ 959,771 $ 4,857,753
Value of Forfeited Equity(1) $(1,507,303) $(1,507,303) $ (2,963,211) $ (2,963,211) –
Ignacio J. Walker
Severance Payment – – – 662,423 $ 662,423Unvested RSUs
(1) $ 375,532 $ 375,532 – – $ 375,532
Unvested PUs(1) $ 286,378 $ 286,378 – – $ 566,980
Unvested MSUs(1) $ 227,997 $ 227,997 – – $ 440,873
Outplacement – – – $ 25,000 $ 25,000
Total $ 889,907 $ 889,907 – $ 687,423 $ 2,070,808
Value of Forfeited Equity(1) $ (493,479) $ (493,479) $ (1,383,386) $ (1,383,386) –
(1) Values for PUs, MSUs and RSUs determined based on the number of shares that would have been acquired or forfeited on vesting multiplied by the fair marke t
value of our common stock on December 31, 2021.
84 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationIn the event of termination, our NEOs would be entitled to receive their accrued balance under the EVDRP. These
amounts would be determined and paid in accordance with the terms and conditions of the plan, and are not included inthe table. See 2021 Nonqualified Deferred Compensation for more information.
None of our NEOs has an employment contract, and all of them are employed at-will; if an NEO were no longer
performing at the expected level, he or she could be terminated for cause immediately without receiving a
contractually guaranteed payment . The other potential payments upon termination or a change of control are described
below.
Executive Severance Plan
Our NEOs are eligible participants under the Severance Plan. Upon involuntary termination not for cause, our NEOs
would be entitled to the benefits shown below.
Lump-sum payment equal to annual base salary
+ target AIP award for year of termination +
cash value of 12 months of employer and employee
medical and dental insurance premiums2For our CEO
Outplacement services of up to
$25,000 for up to one year×+
1For all other NEOs
Benefits Not Subject to Gross-up. Benefits are subject to withholding for all applicable taxes and not grossed-up for
taxes.
Trigger for Benefits. Involuntary termination, which excludes termination for cause or due to disability, death,
voluntary resignation, or an executive declining simultaneous or continuing employment in a comparable position.
Definition of Cause. Cause is defined as (i) commission of a crime or other act that could materially damage the
reputation of our company or its subsidiaries; (ii) theft, misappropriation, or embezzlement of company or subsidiaryproperty; (iii) falsification of company or subsidiary records; (iv) substantial failure to comply with written policies and
procedures; (v) misconduct; or (vi) substantial failure to perform material job duties not cured within 30 days after written
notice.
Key Executive Change of Control Severance Plan
The COC Severance Plan is designed to retain certain key executives during a period in which a change of control
transaction is being negotiated or a hostile takeover is being attempted. Messrs. Butier, Lovins and Stander are the onlyeligible participants under the COC Severance Plan. These NEOs are entitled to benefits only if they are terminated not
for “cause” or terminate employment for “good reason” within 24 months of the change of control (a “double
trigger”). In these circumstances, these NEOs would be entitled to the benefits shown below.
Lump-sum payment equal to annual
base salary + target AIP award for year
of termination + cash value of
12 months of employer and employee
medical and dental insurance premiums×3For our CEO
+Prorated target AIP
award for year in
which termination
occurs+Outplacement
services of up to
$25,000 for up to
one year2For Level 2 NEOs
Benefits Not Subject to Gross-up. Benefits are subject to withholding for all applicable taxes and not grossed-up for
excise or other taxes. However, if the payment would trigger an excise tax for a participating NEO, the NEO can elect toreceive (i) his full benefits, with him responsible for paying any applicable excise taxes, or (ii) reduced benefits to an
amount sufficient to eliminate any excise tax liability. In the termination payments table, we assume that these NEOs
would elect to reduce their respective benefits.
Definition of Change of Control. Change of control is defined as (i) replacement of a majority of our Board during any
12-month period by directors whose appointment or election was not endorsed by a majority of the members of ourBoard; or (ii) acquisition by any person, group or corporation that has entered into a merger, acquisition, consolidation,purchase, stock acquisition, asset acquisition, or similar business transaction with our company, of (A) together with anyof our company’s stock previously held, more than 50% of the total fair market value or the total voting power of our
company’s stock; (B) 30% or more of the total voting power of our company’s stock during any 12-month period; or
(C) assets of our company having a total gross fair market value of 40% or more of the total gross fair market value of allof our company’s assets during any 12-month period.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 85Definition of Cause. Cause is defined as it is under the Severance Plan.
Definition of Good Reason. Good reason is defined as (i) material diminution in base compensation; (ii) material
diminution in authority, duties, or responsibilities or supervisor’s authority, duties, or responsibilities; (iii) material changein geographic job location; or (iv) any other action or inaction that constitutes a material breach by our company.
Equity Incentive Plans
Under our 2017 Incentive Award Plan approved by stockholders in April 2017, unvested equity awards held by our
NEOs on the date of termination would vest as shown in the table below.
VESTING OF EQUITY AWARDS ON TERMINATION EVENTS
PUs MSUs RSUs Stock Options
Resignation/Involuntary
Termination, Whether orNot for CauseCancelled Cancelled Cancelled Cancelled
DeathVest at time of event
on prorated basis
based on target
performanceVest at time of event
on prorated basis
based on target
performanceVest Cancelled
Qualifying DisabilitySame as
deathSame as
deathVest Cancelled
Qualifying RetirementVest after end of
performance period on
prorated basis based
on actual performanceVest after end of
performance period on
prorated basis based
on actual performanceVestVest and exercisable
for term of option
Change of ControlVest based on actual,
if determinable, and
otherwise target
performance only in
event of termination
without cause or for
good reason within
24 months after
change of controlVest based on actual,
if determinable, and
otherwise target
performance only in
event of termination
without cause or for
good reason within
24 months of change
of controlVest only in event of
termination without
cause or for good
reason within
24 months after
change of controlVest only in event of
termination without
cause or for good
reason within
24 months after
change of control
EQUITY COMPENSATION PLAN INFORMATION AS OF JANUARY 1, 2022
Plan CategoryNumber of Securities
to Be Issued Upon
Exercise of
Outstanding
Options, Warrants
and Rights (A)Weighted-Average
Exercise Price of
Outstanding Options,
Warrants and Rights (B)Number of Securities
Remaining Available for
Future Issuance Under
Equity Compensation Plans
(Excluding Securities
Reflected in Column (A)) (C)
Equity compensation plans approved by security holders
Amended and Restated Stock
Option and Incentive Plan(1) 141,932 $73.76 –
2017 Incentive Award Plan(2) 1,146,041 – 3,759,493
Total 1,287,973 $73.76 3,759,493
(1) Our Amended and Restated Stock Option and Incentive Plan was last approved by stockholders in April 2012. We ceased issuing awards under this plan in Ma rch
2017. Under this plan, shares issuable under outstanding equity awards only includes stock options for non-employee directors, officers and other e ligible
employees. Amount in column (A) reflects 141,932 stock options.
(2) Our 2017 Incentive Award Plan was approved by our stockholders in April 2017. We began issuing awards under this plan in May 2017. Under this plan, share s
issuable under outstanding equity awards include (i) RSUs and DSUs for non-employee directors and (ii) restricted stock awards (RSAs), RSUs, PUs and MSUs for
officers and other eligible employees. Amount in column (A) includes 65,929 RSAs, 36,090 RSUs, 104,809 DSUs, 390,356 MSUs (including accrued divide nd
equivalents and reflecting the tranches granted in 2019, 2020 and 2021 subject to vesting as of January 1, 2022 at 200%, 183% and 135%, respectively, th e
payouts based on our actual performance and the unvested tranches of these MSUs at the maximum level of performance as actual performance would result in
above-target payouts); 548,857 PUs (reflecting the relative TSR component of the 2019-2021 PUs subject to vesting as of January 1, 2022 at 188%, the pa yout
based on our actual performance, the maximum level of performance for the relative TSR component of the 2020-2022 and 2021-2023 PUs as actual performa nce
would result in above-target payouts, and a weighted-average of 126%, 200% and 198%, respectively, for the cumulative EVA components of the PUs grant ed in
2019, 2020 and 2021). Amount in column (C) represents the aggregate number of shares available for future issuance, with each full-value award decrea sing the
number of shares available for future issuance by 1.5 shares.
86 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationCEO PAY RATIO
This disclosure compares the median annual total compensation of our employees to the annual total compensation
of our CEO.
With approximately 75% of our 2021 revenues originating outside the U.S. and approximately half of our revenues
having originated in emerging markets (Asia, Latin America, Eastern Europe and Middle East/Northern Africa), ouremployees are located in over 50 countries to best serve our customers. Approximately 84% of our employees atyear-end 2021 were located outside the U.S. and approximately 68% were located in emerging markets, where median
compensation is substantially lower than it is in the U.S.
The charts shown below show the demographics of our global employee population by region and function.
Approximately 21,055 of our approximately 36,000 employees at year-end 2021, representing approximately 58% of our
global workforce, were in Asia, serving our customers in that region. In addition, approximately 67% of our global
workforce at that time worked in the operations of our manufacturing facilities or in positions directly supporting themfrom other locations.
Asia Paciﬁc
58%Europe
17%North America
20%Latin America
5%Workforce by Region
Operations
67%Non-Operations
33%Workforce by Function
Our compensation philosophy is to offer market-based, competitive wages and benefits in all the markets where we
compete for talent. All of our employees were paid at least the applicable legal minimum wage, and 96% of ouremployees were paid above the applicable legal minimum wage at year-end 2021. Our CEO’s compensation is
substantially driven by pay-for-performance incentive compensation, consistent with U.S. market practices.
2021 PAY RATIO
• The annual total compensation of our median employee (among all employees except for our CEO) was $15,256.
• Our CEO’s annual total compensation, as reported in the Total column of the 2021 Summary Compensation
Table , was $12,433,721.
• Based on this information, a reasonable estimate of the 2021 ratio of the annual total compensation of our CEO
to the annual total compensation of our median employee was approximately 815 to 1.
We calculated this ratio based on the rules and guidance provided by the SEC. SEC rules allow for varying
methodologies for companies to use in identifying their median employee; other companies may have different workforce
demographics and employment and compensation practices and may utilize different methodologies, exclusions,estimates and assumptions in calculating their CEO pay ratios. As a result, the CEO pay ratios reported by othercompanies may not be meaningful comparisons to our CEO pay ratio.
IDENTIFICATION OF MEDIAN EMPLOYEE
To identify our median employee, we considered annual base compensation, which is the most common pay element
for all our employees, as reflected in our global human resources information system. We selected this compensationelement because it represents the principal broad-based compensation element for the vast majority of our employees
globally. We measured compensation for purposes of determining the median employee using the 12-month period
ended December 31, 2021, making no cost-of-living adjustments.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 87We selected January 1, 2022 as the date on which to determine our median employee. As of that date, we had
35,971 employees, 30,320 of which were located outside of the U.S. and 24,571 of which were located in emergingmarkets. We utilized the de minimis exemption to eliminate those countries representing no more than 5% of our globalpopulation in the aggregate. The countries excluded were Mauritius (19 employees), the Dominican Republic (120employees), Pakistan (353 employees), Indonesia (527 employees) and Sri Lanka (669 employees), representingapproximately 0.1%, 0.3%, 1.0%, 1.5% and 1.9%, respectively, of our global workforce.
To determine our medianable group, we used a statistical sampling approach known as stratified sampling to
concentrate on medianable employees, which were those within a narrow range of the estimated median salary of
$10,645, because these employees were all reasonably likely to be our median employee. As a result of this statisticalsampling process, we identified 819 employees with a salary within $500 of this amount. Employees from Chinarepresented approximately 58% of the medianable group; as a result, we narrowed the medianable group to those 478employees. Finally, we identified the 5 employees who were potentially our median employee by analyzing additional
qualitative and quantitative characteristics, including pay volatility.
MEDIAN EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION
Our median employee was a full-time, salaried employee working at a manufacturing facility in China, with annual
base compensation of $10,198. For purposes of this disclosure, we converted the employee’s base compensation fromChinese Yuan to U.S. dollars using the average monthly exchange rate during 2021 of 0.1548281792.
As required by SEC rules, in determining the annual total compensation of $15,256 for our median employee, we
calculated the employee’s compensation in accordance with Item 402(c)(2)(x) of Regulation S-K, consistent with how wedetermined our CEO’s total compensation for the 2021 Summary Compensation Table .
88 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationITEM 3 – RATIFICATION OF APPOINTMENT OF
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
The Audit Committee – which is directly responsible for the appointment, compensation (including approval of audit
and non-audit fees) and evaluation of the independent registered public accounting firm that audits our financialstatements and internal control over financial reporting – has appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) as our
independent registered public accounting firm for fiscal year 2022 and our Board is seeking stockholder ratification of the
appointment. Stockholder ratification is not required by our Bylaws or applicable laws and regulations. However, ourBoard annually submits the appointment for stockholder ratification as an element of our strong governance program. Ifstockholders were not to ratify the appointment, the Audit Committee would reconsider whether or not to retain PwC,but could determine to do so in the committee’s discretion. In addition, even if the appointment is ratified, the AuditCommittee could subsequently appoint a different independent registered public accounting firm without stockholder
approval if the committee were to determine that doing so was in the best interests of our company and stockholders.
Although no formal statement from PwC is planned, representatives of the firm will be available during the Annual
Meeting to answer questions from stockholders.
AUDIT COMMITTEE EVALUATION
In determining whether to reappoint PwC, the Audit Committee considered its qualifications, performance and
independence, as well as those of the audit engagement team; the quality of its discussions with PwC; and the feescharged by PwC for the quality and scope of services provided. In connection with the 2022 appointment, the Audit
Committee considered, among other things, the factors described below.
•Audit Quality – The quality of PwC’s audit and non-audit work based on its oversight of the firm’s work product,
considering the firm’s (i) compliance with accounting, auditing and regulatory requirements; (ii) deep and broadunderstanding of our businesses and the financial environments in which we operate; (iii) use of its experience toidentify and resolve issues in a timely manner; and (iv) exercise of integrity, objectivity and professionalskepticism when performing our audits, as well as the committee’s discussions with management in executive
session without PwC present and its discussions with PwC in executive session without management present
•Performance – PwC’s performance during our 2021 and prior-year audits, noting the firm’s agility and continued
satisfactory performance in 2021 despite the impact of COVID-19
•Qualitative Review – The results of our global survey of members of management and the Audit Committee
evaluating PwC’s (i) expertise and resources; (ii) quality and timeliness of audit planning; (iii) communication and
interaction; (iv) independence, objectivity and professional skepticism; and (v) value from fees
•Self-Assessment – PwC’s self-assessment of its performance in connection with the 2021 audit, its satisfaction
of the service needs and expectations of the Audit Committee and management, and areas of strength andimprovement opportunities
•Regulatory Reviews – External data on the firm’s audit quality and performance, including the most recent Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) report on PwC
•Fees – The reasonableness of PwC’s fees for audit and non-audit services, both on an absolute basis and relative
to peer firms
•Independence – PwC’s processes to ensure it maintains independence, written disclosures from the firm and the
independence letter required by the PCAOB
•Tenure – PwC’s tenure as our independent auditor, including related feedback from certain of our investors and
the benefits of having a longer-tenured auditor, as well as the controls we and PwC have in place to mitigate anypotential independence risk
The Audit Committee has determined that the appointment of PwC is in the best interest of our company and
stockholders. The Audit Committee has appointed PwC as our independent registered public accounting firm for fiscalyear 2022 and recommends that stockholders ratify the appointment.
RECOMMENDATION OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Our Board recommends that you vote FOR ratification of the appointment of PwC as our independent registered
public accounting firm for fiscal year 2022 . Properly dated and signed proxies will be so voted unless you specify
otherwise.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 89AUDIT MATTERS
AUDITOR TENURE
PwC has been our independent registered public accounting firm since 1998 and served in that capacity during fiscal
year 2021. Through its predecessor entities, the firm has served as our independent auditor since at least 1960, whichwas the year our financial statements were first subject to SEC reporting requirements. We have been unable to
determine the exact year PwC began serving as the independent auditor for our company. PwC is well-qualified to
continue serving as our independent registered public accounting firm, has a deep understanding of our operations andaccounting practices, and maintains rigorous procedures to ensure auditor independence. Some governance stakeholders,including certain of our investors, have suggested that, because longer tenure poses a risk to auditor independence, theAudit Committee should consider rotating firms. After giving these views due consideration, the Audit Committeedetermined to reappoint PwC because it continues to believe that PwC’s years of experience auditing our company
confers significant benefits, including those described below.
•Audit Quality – PwC has deep institutional knowledge regarding our operations, businesses, and accounting
policies and practices, and optimizes its people and technology to deliver quality assurance services
•Scale – PwC has a global presence with resources in virtually all of the countries in which we do business,
enabling the firm to cost-effectively perform statutory audit work on our subsidiary accounts
•Capability – PwC’s capability and experience handling the breadth and complexity of our global operations,
including our phased worldwide implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system over the nextseveral years
•Efficiency – PwC brings customized knowledge incorporating independent judgment tailored to our audits,
allowing for significant time savings
•Cost – PwC is able to effectively perform audit, audit-related, tax compliance, tax planning and other services
cost-competitively
In conducting its regular review of whether to appoint a new independent registered public accounting firm, among
other things, the Audit Committee considers the fact that onboarding a new firm would require a significant timecommitment on the part of management, potentially distracting from the paramount focus on financial reporting and
internal controls, without necessarily increasing audit quality.
The Audit Committee has noted that PwC’s advanced technological tools have substantially improved the efficiency
and effectiveness of its assurance procedures, enhancing the quality of its audit and making it less burdensome for ourteam members. These digital advancements were particularly valuable during 2021 when the firm continued to
leverage technology to plan and complete many of its audit procedures remotely as a result of the continued impact of
COVID-19.
In addition, PwC has continuously provided management and the Audit Committee with accounting/financial
reporting insights and best practices relevant to our business, as well as advance notice of legislative and regulatory
developments that have the potential to significantly impact our company.
The Audit Committee has several controls in place to mitigate any potential independence risk related to auditor
tenure, including those described below and on the following page.
•Annual Review of Performance and Independence – In addition to its ongoing assessment and real-time
feedback provided to PwC, the Audit Committee formally evaluates both the performance and independence of
PwC in determining whether or not to appoint the firm for the following year
•Limits on Non-Audit Services – The Audit Committee assesses the impact providing non-audit services may
have on PwC’s independence each time it approves the firm’s provision of these services, as well as during itsannual assessment of the firm’s independence; our company regularly uses other independent registered publicaccounting firms to provide non-audit services, engaging PwC only where doing so confers significant benefits
given its role as our independent auditor
90 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison Corporation•Regular Consideration of Auditor Rotation – The Audit Committee regularly considers whether to change the
independent registered public accounting firm based on its assessment of PwC’s audit quality, performance,compensation and independence, having most recently done so in February 2020
•Executive Sessions – The Audit Committee meets regularly both with PwC without management present and
with management without PwC present
•Lead Engagement Partner Rotation and Selection – To regularly bring a fresh perspective to the audit, a new
lead engagement partner is designated at least every five years; a new lead engagement partner was most
recently designated in advance of the 2019 audit. The Audit Committee interviewed the partner prior to his
designation, and the Audit Committee was directly responsible for making the selection, in consultation withmanagement and representatives from PwC. The Audit Committee anticipates that it will begin discussions withthe firm regarding the next lead engagement partner in late 2022.
•Oversight by Lead Relationship Partner – PwC designates a separate lead relationship partner to provide
additional assurance and objective oversight; this partner meets at least annually with the Audit Committee andis available as needed to resolve any issues that may arise.
AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE
PwC has advised us that neither the firm nor any member thereof has any financial interest, direct or indirect, in our
company or our subsidiaries, confirming to the Audit Committee that it is in compliance with the rules, standards andpolicies of the PCAOB and the regulations of the SEC governing auditor independence. In February 2022, the Audit
Committee reviewed the non-audit services approved by the committee and provided by PwC during 2021, including the
related fees, and determined that the firm’s provision of these services did not impair PwC’s independence.
The Audit Committee discussed with PwC its independence from our company, Board and management and
concluded that PwC was independent during 2021.
AUDITOR COMPENSATION
In approving PwC’s services and fees, the Audit Committee considers whether PwC is best positioned to provide the
services effectively and efficiently due to its familiarity with our operations, businesses, accounting policies and practices,internal controls, and financial and information technology systems, as well as whether the services enhance our ability to
manage control risks and maintain audit quality. The Audit Committee regularly receives updates on the services provided
by, and fees paid to, PwC to ensure that they are within the parameters approved by the Audit Committee.
COMMITTEE APPROVAL OF SERVICES AND FEES
The Audit Committee has adopted procedures for the pre-approval of all audit and non-audit services and fees
provided by the independent registered public accounting firm. In the fourth quarter of 2020, the Audit Committeeapproved the (i) audit, audit-related and other services PwC would perform in the 2021 audit and (ii) permissible tax
services the firm could provide during the year. The Audit Committee pre-approved PwC’s budgeted fees for audit, audit-
related, tax compliance, tax planning and other services in February 2021, received updates on year-to-date fees incurredin July and October of that year, and assessed the final fees in connection with its review of the results of the audit inFebruary 2022. These procedures include reviewing and approving a plan for audit and permitted non-audit services,which includes a description of, and estimated fees for, each category of audit and non-audit services. Additional Audit
Committee approval is required for services not included in the initial plan or substantially in excess of the budgeted
amount for the particular category of services. The Audit Committee has delegated interim pre-approval authority to itsChair for services not included in the audit plan; these services are presented for approval to the entire Audit Committeeat a subsequent meeting.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 91AUDIT FEES
In fiscal years 2021 and 2020, PwC provided the services shown below for our company – all of which were
approved by the Audit Committee under the procedures described above – for which we paid the firm the fees indicated.
2021 2020
Audit Fees(1) $ 8,690,000 $ 8,455,000
Audit-Related Fees(2) 236,000 173,000
Tax Fees:
Tax Compliance(3) 2,610,000 2,190,000
Tax Planning(4) 1,647,000 1,984,000
All Other Fees(5) 16,000 15,000
Total $13,199,000 $12,817,000
(1) Includes fees for services performed to comply with the standards established by the PCAOB, including the audit of our
financial statements and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting; audits in connection withstatutory filings; and other services that the principal independent registered public accounting firm most effectively
and efficiently can provide, such as procedures related to comfort letters, consents and review of our SEC filings.
(2) Includes fees associated with assurance and related services traditionally performed by the independent registered
public accounting firm and reasonably related to the performance of the audit or review of our financial statements,including assistance in financial due diligence related to acquisitions and divestitures and the audit or compliance
services not required by applicable statutes or regulations. This category also includes audits of pension and other
employee benefit plans, as well as the audit or review of information technology systems and internal controlsunrelated to the audit of the financial statements.
(3) Includes fees associated with tax compliance such as preparation of tax returns in foreign jurisdictions, tax audits andtransfer pricing documentation.
(4) Includes fees for domestic and international tax planning, and tax planning related to restructuring actions, acquisitionsand divestitures.
(5) Includes fees for any services other than those described in the above categories. In both years, included subscriptionsand licenses to accounting and tax resources and other permissible services.
92 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationAUDIT AND FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
COMPOSITION AND QUALIFICATIONS
The Audit and Finance Committee (referred to in this report as the “Committee”) of our Board of Directors (our
“Board”) is comprised of the directors named at the end of this report, each of whom meets the enhanced independenceand experience standards for audit committee members required by Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rules
and New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) listing standards. Our Board has determined all members to be financially literate
and designated each of Anthony Anderson and Patrick Siewert as an “audit committee financial expert” under applicableSEC regulations. Members of the Committee are prohibited from sitting on the audit committee of more than two otherpublic companies, and all members are in compliance with this restriction.
PRIMARY RESPONSIBILITIES
The Committee has a written charter adopted by our Board, which is available under Corporate Governance in the
investors section of our website. The Committee annually reviews the charter and recommends changes to the Board forapproval. The charter was last amended in February 2021.
During fiscal year 2021, the Committee primarily performed the activities described below on behalf of our Board.
• Reviewed and discussed with management and the independent registered public accounting firm our quarterly
and annual financial results, earnings release documentation and the related reports we file with the SEC
• Reviewed and discussed with management, our Vice President of Internal Audit and the independent registered
public accounting firm our internal controls report and the independent registered public accounting firm’s
attestation thereof
• Evaluated the qualifications, performance and independence of the independent registered public accounting
firm and met with representatives of the firm to discuss the scope, budget, staffing and progress of its audit
• Supervised our Vice President of Internal Audit with respect to the scope, budget, staffing and progress of the
internal audit and evaluated his personal performance, as well as the performance of his function
• Discussed significant financial risk exposures, including our cybersecurity risk management program and risks
related to our company’s information technology controls and security, and the steps taken by management to
monitor and control these exposures
OVERSIGHT OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Management is responsible for our consolidated financial statements, accounting and financial reporting policies,
internal control over financial reporting, and disclosure controls and procedures. The Committee appointed theindependent registered public accounting firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) to provide audit, audit-related and
tax compliance services, with limited tax planning and other services to the extent approved by the Committee. PwCperformed an independent audit of our 2021 consolidated financial statements in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) and issued an opinion on the conformity of those financialstatements with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). The Committee’sresponsibility is to monitor and oversee our accounting and financial reporting processes and the audits of our
consolidated financial statements and internal control over financial reporting. The members of the Committee are not
professionally engaged in the practice of auditing or accounting and rely without independent verification on theinformation provided to them and the representations made by management and PwC.
The Committee reviewed and discussed our consolidated financial statements and related footnotes for the fiscal year
ended January 1, 2022 – including our company’s critical accounting policies and management’s significant estimates andjudgments – with management and PwC, as well as PwC’s report and unqualified opinion on the audit. Managementrepresented to the Committee and PwC that our consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance withGAAP. PwC presented the matters required to be discussed by Auditing Standard No. 1301, Communications with Audit
Committees . The Committee received these written disclosures and the letters from PwC required by the applicable
requirements of the PCAOB regarding communications concerning independence – including Rule 3524, Audit
Committee Pre-approval of Certain Tax Services , and Rule 3526, Communication with Audit Committees Concerning
Independence, – and discussed with PwC its independence from our company, Board and management.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 93Based on the Committee’s review and discussions with management and PwC described above, as well as the
Committee’s review of the representations of management and the audit report and unqualified opinion of PwC, theCommittee recommended that our Board approve the inclusion of the audited consolidated financial statements for ourfiscal year ended January 1, 2022 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC.
OVERSIGHT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
The Committee is responsible for appointing the independent registered public accounting firm, and monitoring and
overseeing the firm’s qualifications, compensation, performance and independence. In this capacity, the Committeereviewed with PwC the overall scope of services and fees for its audit, and monitored the progress of PwC’s audit in
assessing our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, including the firm’s findings and required
resources.
PwC provided to the Committee the written disclosures and independence letter required by the PCAOB. The
Committee discussed with PwC its independence from our company and management and concluded that PwC wasindependent during fiscal year 2021. The Committee has a policy requiring pre-approval of fees for audit, audit-related,tax compliance, tax planning and other services and has concluded that PwC’s provision of limited non-audit services to
our company in 2021 was compatible with maintaining its independence.
Under its charter, the Committee is required to regularly consider whether it is appropriate to change the independent
registered public accounting firm, having most recently formally evaluated with management whether it may beappropriate to do so in February 2020. With a view to ensuring that audit quality would continue to be paramount and
recognizing that PwC was continuing to independently and appropriately challenge management, the Committee
determined at that time to retain PwC, noting the firm’s strong performance and consistently improving service delivery.
The Committee has determined that the appointment of PwC as our independent registered public accounting firm
for fiscal year 2022 is in the best interest of our company and stockholders. The Committee has appointed PwC in thiscapacity and recommends that stockholders ratify the appointment.
OVERSIGHT OF INTERNAL AUDIT
The Committee’s responsibility is to monitor and oversee our internal audit function, reviewing the significant audit
results reported to management and management’s responses thereto. In this capacity, the Committee reviews with ourVice President of Internal Audit the overall scope and budget for the internal audit, and regularly monitors the progress of
the internal audit in assessing our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, including key
findings and required resources. The Committee supervises our Vice President of Internal Audit in the conduct of hisoperational responsibilities and evaluates his individual performance as well as that of the entire internal audit function.
EXECUTIVE SESSIONS
The Committee regularly meets separately in executive session without management present with each of our Vice
President of Internal Audit and PwC to review and discuss their evaluations of the overall quality of our accounting andfinancial reporting and internal control. The Committee also regularly meets, without PwC or our Vice President of
Internal Audit present, with management, our CFO and our Controller/CAO, and meets as needed with other members of
management such as our CEO and our CLO, to discuss, among other things, significant risk exposures impacting ourfinancial statements and accounting policies.
STOCKHOLDER FEEDBACK
The Audit Committee has established procedures for the receipt, retention and treatment, on a confidential basis, of
complaints regarding our accounting, internal controls and auditing matters. See Complaint Procedures for Accounting and
Auditing Matters in the Governance section of this proxy statement. The Committee welcomes feedback regarding its
oversight of our audit and finance programs. Stockholders may communicate with the Committee by writing to the Audit and
Finance Committee Chair, c/o Corporate Secretary, 8080 Norton Parkway, Mentor, Ohio 44060.
Martha N. Sullivan, Chair
Anthony K. Anderson
Andres A. Lopez
Patrick T. Siewert
94 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationSECURITY OWNERSHIP INFORMATION
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF MANAGEMENT AND SIGNIFICANT STOCKHOLDERS
The table below shows the number of shares of our common stock beneficially owned by our (i) directors; (ii) NEOs;
(iii) current directors and executive officers as a group; and (iv) greater-than-five-percent, or “significant,” stockholders, ineach case as of the February 28, 2022 record date for the Annual Meeting. Beneficial ownership means that the
individual, group or entity, directly or indirectly, has or shares with others the power to vote (or direct the voting of) or the
power to dispose of (or direct the disposition of) the shares; the individual, group or entity may or may not have anyeconomic interest in the shares. The inclusion of information in the table does not constitute an admission that theindividual, group or entity is, for purposes of Section 13 or 16 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended(the “Exchange Act”), the beneficial owner of the shares shown.
Name of Beneficial OwnerCommon
Stock(1)Number of Rights Exercisable and
Vesting within 60 Days(2)Number of Shares
Beneficially OwnedPercent of
Class(3)
Directors
Bradley A. Alford 21,563 20,575 42,138 *Anthony K. Anderson 3,382 11,895 15,277 *Mark J. Barrenechea 3,744 2,356 6,100 *Mitchell R. Butier 243,041 226,442 469,483 *Ken C. Hicks 28,210 14,808 43,018 *Andres A. Lopez 6,323 1,275 7,598 *Patrick T. Siewert 16,050 – 16,050 *Julia A. Stewart 20,850 41,829 62,679 *Martha N. Sullivan 15,868 12,891 28,759 *
Non-director NEOs
Gregory S. Lovins 38,948 22,169 62,117 *Deena Baker-Nel 2,363 5,844 8,207 *Deon M. Stander 31,623 11,650 43,273 *Ignacio J. Walker 3,529 5,749 9,278 *
All current directors and executive officers as a
group (15 persons) 465,131 390,794 855,925 1.0%
Significant stockholders
The Vanguard Group
(4) 9,649,647 – 9,649,647 11.7%
BlackRock, Inc.(5) 6,726,210 – 6,726,210 8.2%
T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc.(6) 5,486,584 – 5,486,584 6.7%
(1) Except as otherwise noted herein, each director, NEO and current executive officer has sole voting and investment power with respect to the shares
indicated and no shares have been pledged as security by any such person. Includes for the following beneficial owners the following amounts of sharesheld in our employee savings plan as of February 28, 2022: Butier – 4,010, Lovins – 2,086, Baker-Nel – 1,213, Walker – 545, and all current directors and
executive officers as a group – 10,189.
(2) Numbers reported in this column are not entitled to vote during the Annual Meeting. Includes the following number of DSUs deferred through the DDECP
by the following directors as of February 28, 2022, as to which they have no voting or investment power: Alford – 20,575; Anderson – 11,895;Barrenechea – 2,356; Hicks – 14,808; Lopez – 1,275; Stewart – 41,829; and Sullivan – 12,067. DSUs are included as beneficially owned because, if the
director were to resign or retire from our Board, his or her DDECP account would be valued as of the date of separation and the equivalent number of
shares of our common stock would be issued to the separating director.
(3) Percent of class based on 82,355,333 shares of our common stock outstanding as of February 28, 2022. Individuals with an (*) beneficially own less than1% of our outstanding common stock.
(4) Number of shares beneficially owned based on information as of December 31, 2021 contained in Amendment No. 11 to Schedule 13G filed with the SECon February 9, 2022. The Vanguard Group has sole voting power with respect to no shares; shared voting power with respect to 136,002 shares; soledispositive power with respect to 9,310,583 shares; and shared dispositive power with respect to 339,064 shares. The Vanguard Group is an investment
adviser, in accordance with Rule 13d-1(b)(1)(ii)(E) of the Exchange Act, with a business address of 100 Vanguard Boulevard, Malvern,
Pennsylvania 19355.
(5) Number of shares beneficially owned based on information as of December 31, 2021 contained in Amendment No. 13 to Schedule 13G filed with the SECon February 1, 2022. BlackRock, Inc. has sole voting power with respect to 5,702,277 shares and sole dispositive power with respect to all 6,726,210shares. BlackRock, Inc. is a parent holding company or control person, in accordance with Rule 13d-1(b)(1)(ii)(G) of the Exchange Act, with a busines s
address of 55 East 52
ndStreet, New York, New York 10055.
(6) Number of shares beneficially owned based on information as of December 31, 2021 contained in Amendment No. 3 to Schedule 130 filed with the SEC
on February 14, 2022. T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc. has sole voting power with respect to 1,842,064 shares and sole dispositive power with respect toall 5,486,584 shares. T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc. is an investment adviser, in accordance with Rule 13d-1(b)(1)(ii)(E) of the Exchange Act, with a
business address of 100 East Pratt Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21202.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 95RELATED PERSON TRANSACTIONS
Both our Code of Conduct and our Conflict of Interest Policy (“COI Policy”) provide that conflicts of interest should be
avoided. Under our Governance Guidelines, Board members are expected to comply with our Code of Conduct and avoidany action, position or interest that conflicts with those of our company, or gives the appearance of a conflict. Our COIPolicy proscribes any of our officers (including our executive officers) or employees – or any of their immediate familymembers – from directly or indirectly doing business, seeking to do business or owning an interest in an entity that doesbusiness or seeks to do business with our company without approval in writing from the Governance Committee. Underour COI Policy, any officer or employee who has a question as to the interpretation of the policy or its application to aspecific activity, transaction or situation may submit the question in writing to our Chief Compliance Officer or Chief LegalOfficer for any further necessary review by the Governance Committee.
Generally on an annual basis, all employees at the level of manager and above and all non-supervisory professionals
are required to complete a compliance certification in which they must (i) disclose, among other things, whether they orany of their immediate family members have a job, contract or other position with an entity that has commercial dealings
with our company and (ii) certify that they have complied with our Code of Conduct and company policies. All disclosures
are reviewed by our compliance and law departments in consultation with senior management to determine whether theactivity has the potential to significantly influence our business. The Governance Committee receives a report from ourChief Compliance Officer on the disclosures elicited in the compliance certification and, in the event that an unresolveddisclosure potentially gives rise to a significant conflict of interest, determines whether a conflict of interest exists or
whether there is a reasonable likelihood that the activity, transaction or situation would influence the individual’s
judgment or actions in performing his or her duties for our company. In 2021, we temporarily suspended the compliancecertification process to allow our Corporate Compliance team to implement improvement opportunities aligned upon withan independent third party expert we engaged to benchmark our compliance program. We plan on launching theimproved certification process in 2022.
In addition, each of our directors and executive officers annually completes a questionnaire designed to solicit
information about any potential related person transactions. Transactions involving directors are reviewed with theGovernance Committee by our Corporate Secretary in connection with the annual assessment of director independence.
Responses from executive officers are reviewed by our Corporate Secretary with oversight by the Governance Committee
in the event any transactions are identified.
We review internal financial records to identify transactions with security holders known by us from information
contained in Schedules 13D or 13G filed with the SEC to be beneficial owners of more than five percent of our commonstock to determine whether we have any relationships with the security holders that might constitute related persontransactions under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K. Our Corporate Secretary discusses any such findings with theGovernance Committee.
During fiscal year 2021, there were no related person transactions requiring disclosure under SEC rules and
regulations. To our knowledge, all related person transactions were reviewed under our policies and procedures.
96 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationVOTING AND MEETING Q&A
ANNUAL REPORT AND PROXY MATERIALS
WHEN WILL I RECEIVE THE 2021 ANNUAL REPORT?
We expect to mail or make available our 2021 Annual Report to all stockholders of record on or about March 15, 2022.
HOW DO I ACCESS THE 2022 PROXY MATERIALS?
We have elected to provide access to our proxy materials on the internet. Accordingly, we are sending the Notice of
Internet Availability of Proxy Materials (the “Notice”) to our stockholders of record. Brokers, banks and other nominees(collectively, “nominees”) who hold shares on behalf of beneficial owners (also called “street name” holders) will send asimilar notice. You will have the ability to access our proxy materials on the website referred to in the Notice. Instructionson how to request printed proxy materials by mail, including an option to receive paper copies in the future, may be foundin the Notice and on the website referred to in the Notice.
On or about March 15, 2022, we intend to make this proxy statement available online and mail the Notice to all
stockholders entitled to vote. On or about the same date, we intend to mail this proxy statement, together with a proxycard, to stockholders entitled to vote during the Annual Meeting who have previously requested paper copies. In addition,
if you request paper copies of these materials for the first time, they will be mailed within three business days of your
request. If you hold your shares in street name, you may request paper copies of the proxy statement and proxy card fromyour nominee by following the instructions on the notice your nominee provides to you.
Stockholders of record may obtain a copy of this proxy statement without charge by writing to our Corporate
Secretary at 8080 Norton Parkway, Mentor, Ohio 44060.
WHAT IS HOUSEHOLDING?
We will deliver a single copy of our 2021 integrated sustainability and annual report, which includes our 2022 notice
and proxy statement, to stockholders sharing the same address. Householding allows us to reduce our printing and
postage costs, prevents duplicative information from being received at your household and impacts only the delivery ofproxy materials; it does not impact the delivery of dividend checks.
For holders who share a single address, we are sending only one integrated report to that address unless we have
received instructions to the contrary from any stockholder at that address. If you wish to receive an additional copy of ourintegrated report, or if you receive multiple copies of our integrated report and wish to receive a single copy in the future,you may make your request by writing to our Corporate Secretary at 8080 Norton Parkway, Mentor, Ohio 44060.
If you are a street name holder and wish to revoke your consent to householding and receive separate copies of our
proxy statement and annual report in future years, you may call Broadridge Investor Communications Services toll-free at866.540.7095 in the U.S. and Canada or write them c/o Householding Department, 51 Mercedes Way, Edgewood, NewYork 11717.
HOW CAN I ACCESS THE ANNUAL REPORT AND PROXY MATERIALS ELECTRONICALLY?
Instead of receiving paper copies of proxy statements and annual reports by mail in the future, you can elect to
receive an email that will provide a link to these documents on the internet. By electing to access proxy materials online,you can access them more quickly, save us the cost of printing and mailing them to you, reduce the amount of mail youreceive from us, and help us preserve environmental resources.
You may enroll to access proxy materials and annual reports electronically for future Annual Meetings by registering
online at the following website: https://enroll.icsdelivery.com/avy. If you are voting online, you can follow the links on thevoting website to reach the electronic enrollment website.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 97VOTING
WHO IS ENTITLED TO VOTE?
Stockholders of record as of the close of business on February 28, 2022 are entitled to notice of, and to vote at, the
Annual Meeting. Our common stock is the only class of shares outstanding, and there were 82,355,333 shares of commonstock outstanding on February 28, 2022. The list of stockholders entitled to vote will be available for inspection during the
virtual Annual Meeting, as well as starting 10 days before the Annual Meeting during regular business hours at our company
headquarters in Mentor, Ohio. You are entitled to one vote for each share of common stock you held on the record date.
HOW DO I VOTE?
You may vote by submitting a proxy or voting during the Annual Meeting at www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/
AVY2022. If you hold your shares in street name, you may only vote during the meeting if you properly request andreceive a legal proxy in your name from the nominee that holds your shares.
The method of voting by proxy differs depending on whether you are viewing this proxy statement online or
reviewing a paper copy.
• If you are viewing this proxy statement online, you may vote your shares by (i) submitting a proxy by telephone
or online by following the instructions on the website or (ii) requesting a paper copy of the proxy materials andfollowing one of the methods described below.
• If you are reviewing a paper copy of this proxy statement, you may vote your shares by (i) submitting a proxy by
telephone or online by following the instructions on the proxy card or (ii) completing, dating and signing theproxy card included with the proxy statement and returning it in the preaddressed, postage-paid envelope
provided.
Whether or not you plan to attend the Annual Meeting, we urge you to vote promptly using one of the methods
described in the proxy materials. We encourage you to vote by telephone or online since these methods immediately
record your vote and allow you to confirm that your votes have been properly recorded. Telephone and online votes must
be received by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on April 27, 2022.
WHAT IF MY SHARES WERE ACQUIRED THROUGH THE DIRECT SHARE PURCHASE AND SALE PROGRAM?
Shares acquired through our Direct Share Purchase and Sale Program may be voted by following the procedures
described above.
WHAT IF MY SHARES ARE HELD IN THE EMPLOYEE SAVINGS PLAN?
If you hold shares as a participant in our Employee Savings (401(k)) Plan, your vote serves as a voting instruction to
Fidelity Management Trust Company, the trustee of the plan, on how to vote your shares. Your voting instruction must bereceived by the trustee by 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on April 25, 2022.
If the trustee does not receive your instruction in a timely manner, your shares will be voted in the same proportion as
the shares voted by participants in the plan who timely furnish instructions. Shares of our common stock that have notbeen allocated to participant accounts will also be voted by the trustee in the same proportion as the shares voted by
participants in the plan who timely furnish instructions.
HOW DO I REVOKE MY PROXY OR CHANGE MY VOTE AFTER I HAVE VOTED?
If you give a proxy pursuant to this solicitation, you may revoke it at any time before it is acted upon during the
Annual Meeting by (i) submitting another proxy by telephone or online (only your last voting instructions will be counted);(ii) sending a later dated paper proxy; (iii) delivering to our Corporate Secretary a written notice of revocation prior to the
voting of the proxy during the Annual Meeting; or (iv) if you are entitled to do so, voting during the Annual Meeting.
Simply attending the Annual Meeting will not revoke your proxy.
If your shares are held in street name, you may only change your vote by submitting new voting instructions to your
nominee. You must contact your nominee to find out how to change your vote. Shares held in our Employee Savings Plan
cannot be changed or revoked after 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on April 25, 2022, nor can they be voted during the AnnualMeeting.
98 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationIS MY VOTE CONFIDENTIAL?
Except in contested proxy solicitations, when required by law or as authorized by you (such as by making a written
comment on your proxy card, in which case the comment, but not your vote, may be shared with our company), your voteor voting instruction is confidential and will not be disclosed other than to the broker, trustee, agent or other entitytabulating your vote.
HOW WILL VOTES BE COUNTED?
Votes cast by proxy or during the Annual Meeting will be tabulated by a representative from Broadridge Financial
Solutions, Inc., the independent inspector of election appointed by our Board. The inspector of election will also determinewhether a quorum is present. During the Annual Meeting, shares represented by proxies that reflect abstentions or broker
non-votes (which are shares held by a nominee that are represented during the meeting, but with respect to which the
nominee neither has discretionary authority to vote nor has been given actual authority to vote on a particular item) willbe counted as shares that are present and entitled to vote during the Annual Meeting for purposes of determining thepresence of a quorum. Items 1 and 2 are non-routine under the rules of the NYSE, and Item 3 is routine. Nominees areprohibited from voting on non-routine items in the absence of instructions from the beneficial owners of the shares; as a
result, if you hold your shares in street name and do not submit voting instructions to your nominee, your shares will not
be voted on Item 1, election of directors, or Item 2, approval, on an advisory basis, of our executive compensation. Weurge you to promptly provide voting instructions to your nominee so that your vote is counted.
The vote required to approve each of the Annual Meeting items, as well as the impact of abstentions and broker
non-votes, is shown in the chart below.
ItemVote
RequiredImpact of
AbstentionsImpact of
Broker Non-Votes
1Election of directors Majority of votes castNot counted as votes cast;
no impact on outcomeNot counted as votes cast;
no impact on outcome
2Advisory vote to approve executive
compensationMajority of shares
represented and entitled
to voteNegative impact on
outcomeNot counted as
represented and entitled
to vote; no impact on
outcome
3Ratification of appointment of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as
independent registered public
accounting firm for fiscal year 2022Majority of shares
represented and entitled
to voteNegative impact on
outcomeNot applicable
WHAT IF THERE IS ADDITIONAL BUSINESS TO BE VOTED ON?
As of the date of this proxy statement, we know of no other business to be presented for consideration during the
meeting. If any other business properly comes before the meeting, your vote will be cast on any such other business in
accordance with the best judgment of the individuals acting pursuant to your proxy.
HOW DO I FIND VOTE RESULTS?
We expect to announce preliminary voting results during the Annual Meeting and report final voting results in a
Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on or before May 4, 2022.
ANNUAL MEETING INFORMATION
WHAT IS THE TIME, DATE AND FORMAT OF THE ANNUAL MEETING?
Due to continued public health concerns about large, indoor in-person gatherings given the COVID-19 pandemic, the
Annual Meeting will take place at 1:30 p.m. Eastern Time on April 28, 2022 virtually, with attendance via the internet.
HOW CAN I ATTEND THE VIRTUAL MEETING?
To attend the virtual Annual Meeting, you will need to log in to www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/AVY2022 using
the 16-digit control number on the Notice or proxy card mailed or made available to you on or about March 15, 2022.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 99Online access to the live audio webcast of the Annual Meeting will open at 1:15 p.m. Eastern Time to allow time for you
to log in and test your device’s audio system. We encourage you to access the meeting in advance of its designated starttime as we plan to begin conducting the meeting promptly.
HOW DO I ASK QUESTIONS DURING THE MEETING?
We have designed the virtual Annual Meeting to ensure that you have the same rights and opportunities to
participate as you would at an in-person meeting, using easy-to-use online tools that allow you to attend, vote andask questions . Only stockholders as of the record date or their properly appointed proxies may ask questions during the
meeting, and our Chairman may limit the length of discussion on any particular matter. On the day of, and during, the
Annual Meeting, you can view our Ground Rules for Conduct of Meeting and submit questions on
www.virtualshareholdermeeting.com/AVY2022.
After the business portion of the Annual Meeting concludes and the meeting is adjourned, we will hold a Q&A
session during which we intend to answer all questions submitted before or during the meeting that are pertinent to
our company and the items being brought before stockholder vote during the Annual Meeting, as time permits and in
accordance with our Ground Rules for Conduct of Meeting. Questions and answers will be grouped by topic andsubstantially similar questions will be answered only once. To promote fairness and ensure all stockholder questions areable to be addressed, we will respond to no more than three questions from any single stockholder. Answers to
questions not addressed during the meeting, if any, will be posted promptly after the meeting on the investors
section of our website.
As a result of time constraints and other considerations, we cannot assure you that every stockholder wishing to
address the meeting will have the opportunity to do so. However, all stockholders are invited to direct inquiries or
comments regarding business matters to our Investor Relations department by email to investorcom@averydennison.com
or by mail to 8080 Norton Parkway, Mentor, Ohio 44060. In addition, stockholders wishing to address matters to ourBoard or any of its members may do so as described under Contacting Our Board in the Our Board of Directors section of
this proxy statement.
WHAT DO I DO IF I AM HAVING TECHNICAL ISSUES ACCESSING OR PARTICIPATING IN THE MEETING?
Beginning 15 minutes prior to, and during, the Annual Meeting, we will have support available to assist stockholders
with any technical difficulties they may have accessing or hearing the virtual meeting. If you encounter any difficultyaccessing, or during, the virtual meeting, please call the support team at 1.844.986.0822 (toll-free in the U.S. andCanada) or +1.303.562.9302 (for international participants).
HOW ARE PROXIES BEING SOLICITED?
We have retained D.F. King & Co., Inc. to assist in soliciting proxies for a fee of $12,000, plus reimbursement of
out-of-pocket expenses incident to preparing and mailing our proxy materials. Some of our employees may solicit proxiesby telephone or email; these employees will not receive any additional compensation for their proxy solicitation efforts.We will bear all costs related to this solicitation of proxies and we will reimburse banks, brokers and other custodians,
nominees and fiduciaries for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses they incur in forwarding our proxy materials to beneficial
stockholders. You can help reduce these costs by accessing our proxy materials electronically.
MATTERS RELATED TO 2023 ANNUAL MEETING
HOW DO I SUBMIT ITEMS FOR POTENTIAL CONSIDERATION AT THE 2023 ANNUAL MEETING?
To propose business otherwise satisfying the eligibility requirements of SEC Rule 14a-8 to be considered for
inclusion in our proxy statement for the 2023 Annual Meeting, you must provide notice of proposed items so they are
received at our principal executive offices on or before November 15, 2022. If you wish to nominate persons for election
to our Board or bring any other business before an annual meeting under the advanced notice provisions or our Bylaws,you must notify our Corporate Secretary at our principal executive offices in writing 90 to 120 days prior to the firstanniversary of the preceding year’s annual meeting (with respect to the 2023 Annual Meeting, no earlier thanDecember 29, 2022 and no later than January 28, 2023).
100 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationYour notice must include, among other things, the information described below.
• As to each person who you propose to nominate for election or reelection as a director:
• All information relating to the person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of
directors in an election contest or is otherwise required pursuant to Regulation 14 under the Exchange Act
• The person’s written consent to be named in our proxy statement as a nominee and serve as a director if
elected
• A description of any material relationships between you (and your associates and affiliates) and the nominee
(and his or her associates and affiliates), as more particularly set forth in our Bylaws
• As to any other item of business you propose to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business, the
reasons for conducting the business during the meeting and any material interest you have in the business beingproposed
• Your name and address, and class and number of shares you own beneficially and as of record, as well as
information relating to your security ownership in our company, as described in greater detail in Article II,Section 14 of our Bylaws, which are available under Corporate Governance in the investors section of ourwebsite
Stockholder items of business that do not fully comply with the advance notice requirements contained in our Bylaws
will not be permitted to be brought before the 2023 Annual Meeting. In addition to satisfying the foregoing requirementsunder our Bylaws, to comply with the SEC’s universal proxy rules (once they become effective), stockholders who intend
to solicit proxies in support of director nominees other than our company’s nominees must provide written notice to our
Corporate Secretary at our principal executive offices that includes the information required by Rule 14a-19 under theExchange Act no later than February 22, 2023.
We intend to file a proxy statement and a WHITE proxy card with the SEC in connection with our solicitation of
proxies for the 2023 Annual Meeting.
HOW DO I NOMINATE DIRECTORS FOR INCLUSION IN THE 2023 PROXY STATEMENT?
Our Bylaws permit a stockholder, or a group of no more than 20 stockholders, owning at least 3% of our company’s
outstanding shares of common stock continuously for at least three years to nominate and include in our annual meeting
proxy materials director nominees constituting up to the greater of two nominees or 20% of our Board, subject to therequirements contained in Article II, Section 17 of our Bylaws, which are available under Corporate Governance in theinvestors section of our website. Notice of proxy access director nominees for the 2023 Annual Meeting must bedelivered to our Corporate Secretary at our principal executive offices no earlier than October 16, 2022 and no later than
November 15, 2022 and must otherwise comply with our Bylaws.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 101RECONCILIATION OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES FROM GAAP
We report our financial results in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America, or GAAP, and also communicate with investors using certain non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAPfinancial measures are not in accordance with, nor are they a substitute for or superior to, the comparable GAAP financial
measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are intended to supplement the presentation of our financial results that
are prepared in accordance with GAAP. Based on feedback from investors and financial analysts, we believe that thesupplemental non-GAAP financial measures we provide are useful to their assessment of our performance and operatingtrends, as well as liquidity.
Our non-GAAP financial measures exclude the impact of certain events, activities or strategic decisions. The
accounting effects of these events, activities or decisions, which are included in the GAAP financial measures, may makeit difficult to assess our underlying performance in a single period. By excluding the accounting effects, both positive ornegative, of certain items (such as restructuring charges, outcomes of certain legal proceedings, certain effects ofstrategic transactions and related costs, losses from debt extinguishments, gains or losses from curtailment or settlement
of pension obligations, gains or losses on sales of certain assets, gains or losses on venture investments, and other items),
we believe that we are providing meaningful supplemental information that facilitates an understanding of our coreoperating results and liquidity measures. While some of the items we exclude from GAAP financial measures recur, theytend to be disparate in amount, frequency or timing.
We use these non-GAAP financial measures internally to evaluate trends in our underlying performance, as well as to
facilitate comparison to the results of competitors for quarters and year-to-date periods, as applicable.
We use the non-GAAP financial measures described below in this proxy statement.
• Sales change ex. currency refers to the increase or decrease in net sales, excluding the estimated impact of
foreign currency translation, and, where applicable, an extra week in our fiscal year and the calendar shift
resulting from the extra week in the prior fiscal year and currency adjustment for transitional reporting of highly
inflationary economies. The estimated impact of foreign currency translation is calculated on a constant currencybasis, with prior period results translated at current period average exchange rates to exclude the effect ofcurrency fluctuations.
• Organic sales change refers to sales change ex. currency, excluding the estimated impact of acquisitions and
product line divestitures.
We believe that sales change ex. currency and organic sales change assists investors in evaluating the sales
change from the ongoing activities of our businesses and enhance their ability to evaluate our results from periodto period.
• Adjusted EBITDA margin refers to adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of net sales. Adjusted EBITDA is adjusted
operating income before depreciation and amortization. Adjusted operating income is income before taxes;interest expense; other non-operating expense (income), net; and other expense (income), net. We believe that
adjusted EBITDA margin assists investors in understanding our core operating trends and comparing our results
with those of our competitors.
• Adjusted net income per common share, assuming dilution (adjusted EPS) , refers to adjusted net income divided
by weighted average number of common shares outstanding, assuming dilution. Adjusted net income is incomebefore taxes, tax-effected at the adjusted tax rate, and adjusted for tax-effected restructuring charges and otheritems. Adjusted tax rate is the full-year GAAP tax rate, adjusted to exclude certain unusual or infrequent eventsthat are expected to significantly impact that rate, such as effects of certain discrete tax planning actions, impacts
related to the enactment of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA), where applicable, and other items. We believe
that adjusted EPS assists investors in understanding our core operating trends and comparing our results withthose of our competitors.
• Free cash flow refers to cash flow provided by operating activities, less payments for property, plant and
equipment, software and other deferred charges, plus proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment, plus(minus) net proceeds from insurance and sales (purchases) of investments. Free cash flow is also adjusted for,where applicable, certain acquisition-related transaction costs and the cash contributions related to thetermination of our U.S. pension plan. We believe that free cash flow assists investors by showing the amount of
cash we have available for debt reductions, dividends, share repurchases, and acquisitions.
102 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison Corporation• Return on total capital incl. acquisition amortization (ROTC) refers to net income excluding the expense and tax
benefit of debt financing divided by the average of beginning and ending invested capital. ROTC excl. acquisitionamortization refers to ROTC adjusted for the impact of amortization of intangible assets from acquisitions. Webelieve that ROTC incl. acquisition amortization and ROTC excl. acquisition amortization assist investors inunderstanding our ability to generate returns from our capital.
• Adjusted EBIT refers to earnings before interest expense and taxes, excluding non-cash restructuring costs,
acquisitions completed since the targets were set, and other items. We believe that adjusted EBIT assists
investors in understanding our core operating trends and comparing our results with those of our competitors.We use adjusted EBIT to calculate economic value added (EVA), one of the performance objectives used in ourlong-term incentive compensation program.
ORGANIC SALES CHANGE
($ in millions) 2017 2018 2019 2020 20212017-2021
5-YR CAGR(1)
Net sales $6,613.8 $7,159.0 $7,070.1 $6,971.5 $8,408.3 6.7%
Reported net sales change 8.7% 8.2% (1.2)% (1.4)% 20.6%
Foreign currency translation (0.5)% (1.4)% 3.3% 0.9% (3.4)%Extra week impact – – – (1.3)% 1.4%
Sales change ex. currency (non-GAAP)
(2) 8.2% 6.9% 2.0% (1.7)% 18.6% 6.6%
Acquisitions and product line divestitures (3.9)% (1.4)% – (1.7)% (3.1)%
Organic sales change (non-GAAP)(2) 4.2% 5.5% 2.0% (3.4)% 15.6% 4.6%
(1) Reflects five-year compound annual growth rate, with 2016 as the base period.
(2) Totals may not sum due to rounding and other factors.
ADJUSTED EBITDA MARGIN
($ in millions) 2021
Net sales $8,408.3
Operating income before interest expense, other non-operating expense (income) and taxes, as reported $1,058.7
Operating margin, as reported 12.6%
Non-GAAP adjustments:
Restructuring charges:
Severance and related costs $ 10.5
Asset impairment and lease cancellation charges 3.1
Other items(1) (8.0)
Adjusted operating income (non-GAAP) $1,064.3
Adjusted operating margin (non-GAAP) 12.7%
Depreciation and amortization $ 244.1
Adjusted EBITDA (non-GAAP) $1,308.4
Adjusted EBITDA margin (non-GAAP) 15.6%
(1) Includes pretax gain on venture investments, gain on sale of product line, outcomes of legal proceedings, transaction and related costs, and other it ems.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 103ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS)
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 20212017-2021
5-YR CAGR(1)2020-2021
% Change
As reported net income per common share,
assuming dilution $3.54 $ 3.13 $ 5.28 $ 3.57 $6.61 $8.83 20.1% 33.6%
Non-GAAP adjustments per common share,
net of tax:
Restructuring charges and other items(2) 0.48 0.29 0.68 0.47 0.48 0.05
Pension plan settlement and curtailment
losses – – 0.84 3.12 0.01 0.03
Tax benefit from discrete foreign tax
structuring and planning transactions – – (0.35) (0.56) – –
TCJA provisional amounts and subsequent
adjustments(3) – 1.91 (0.39) – – –
Impact of previously planned repatriation of
foreign earnings for Q4 2017 – (0.33) – – – –
Adjusted net income per common share,
assuming dilution (non-GAAP) $4.02 $ 5.00 $ 6.06 $ 6.60 $7.10 $8.91 17.3% 25.4%
The adjusted tax rates were 32.8%, 28.0%, 25.0%, 24.6%, 24.1% and 25.0% for 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021, respectively.
(1) Reflects five-year compound annual growth rate, with 2016 as the base period.
(2) Includes restructuring charges, transaction and related costs, gain/loss on venture investments, gain/loss on sale of assets, gain on sale of produ ct line, outcomes
of legal proceedings, Argentine peso remeasurement transition loss, reversal of acquisition-related contingent consideration and other items.
(3) In the fourth quarter of 2018, we finalized our provisional amounts as defined under SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 related to the TCJA.
FREE CASH FLOW
($ in millions) 2019 2020 2021
Net cash provided by operating activities $ 746.5 $ 751.3 $1,046.8Purchases of property, plant and equipment (219.4) (201.4) (255.0)Purchases of software and other deferred charges (37.8) (17.2) (17.1)Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 7.8 9.2 1.1Proceeds from insurance and sales (purchases) of investments, net 4.9 5.6 3.1Payments for certain acquisition-related transaction costs – – 18.8Contributions for U.S. pension plan termination 10.3 – –Free cash flow (non-GAAP) $ 512.3 $ 547.5 $ 797.7
104 2022 Proxy Statement |Avery Dennison CorporationRETURN ON TOTAL CAPITAL
($ in millions) 2020 2021
As reported net income $ 555.9 $ 740.1
Interest expense, net of tax benefit 53.1 52.7
Effective tax rate 24.1% 25%
Net income, excluding interest expense and tax benefit of debt financing (non-GAAP) 609.0 792.8Total debt $2,116.8 $3,104.7
Shareholders’ equity 1,484.9 1,924.4
Total debt and shareholders’ equity $3,601.7 $5,029.1
ROTC incl. acquisition amortization (non-GAAP) 18.1% 18.4%Intangible amortization, net of tax benefit $ 15.1 $ 33.5
Net income, excluding
Interest expense and tax benefit of debt financing and intangible amortization (non-GAAP) $ 624.1 $ 826.3
ROTC excl. acquisition amortization (non-GAAP) 18.5% 19.1%
ADJUSTED EARNINGS BEFORE INTEREST AND TAXES (EBIT)
($ in millions) 2019 2020 2021
As reported net income $303.6 $ 555.9 $ 740.1
Reconciling items:
Interest expense 75.8 70.0 70.2
Provision for (benefit from) income taxes (56.7) 177.7 248.6
Earnings before interest expense and taxes $322.7 $ 803.6 $1,058.9
Adjustments:
Non-cash restructuring costs 4.8 6.2 2.4
Other items(1) 449.5 1.0 (49.2)
Adjusted earnings before interest expense, taxes, non-cash restructuring costs, acquisitions
completed since the targets were set, and other items (non-GAAP) $777.0 $ 810.8 $1,012.1
(1) Includes pension plan settlement and curtailment losses, transaction and related costs, gain/loss on venture investments, gain/loss on sale of ass ets, gain on sale of
product line, outcomes of legal proceedings, Argentine peso remeasurement transition loss, reversal of acquisition-related contingent consider ation, impact of
acquisitions completed after targets were set and other items.
Avery Dennison Corporation |2022 Proxy Statement 105[THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK] 
Visit averydennison.com and follow 
us on social media to learn more 
about how we are creating superior 
long-term, sustainable value for our 
customers, employees and investors 
and improving the communities in 
which we operate.
Company Websites 
Corporate: averydennison.com
 
atma.io 
automotive.averydennison.com 
esg.averydennison.com 
fastener.averydennison.com
freshmarx.com 
graphics.averydennison.com 
hanita.averydennison.com
inks.averydennison.com
label.averydennison.com
medical.averydennison.com 
my-muse.com
performancepolymers.averydennison.com 
personalcare.averydennison.com 
printers.averydennison.com 
rbis.averydennison.com
reflectives.averydennison.com
rfid.averydennison.com 
tapes.averydennison.com
vestcom.com 
yongletape.averydennison.com
zippyyum.com
Press and Social Media 
averydennison.com/newsroomWe welcome  
your feedback on 
this report
Contact Us 
averydennison.com/contactus
Email 
info@averydennison.comInvestor Information 
Available at 
investors.averydennison.com  
Send inquiries via email to 
investorcom@averydennison.com
Career Opportunities 
Learn how you can make your mark 
at Avery Dennison. 
Visit averydennison.com/careers2021 Integrated Sustainability 
and Annual Reports;  
2022 Proxy StatementMaking a Material  
Difference
© 2022 Avery Dennison Corp. All rights 
reserved. Avery Dennison, the “triangle logo,” 
Sustainable ADvantage, AD RDX, Freshmarx, 
Smartrac Circus and ClearIntent are 
trademarks of Avery Dennison Corp. All other 
brands are the property of their respective 
owners and imply no endorsement by the 
brand owner of Avery Dennison Corp. or 
products of Avery Dennison Corp.In support of our commitment to sustainability, 
the paper for this annual report is Forest 
Stewardship Council® (FSC®) certified, which 
promotes environmentally responsible, 
socially beneficial and economically viable 
management of the world’s forests. Printed on 
Rolland Enviro Print, 80 lb cover and 80 lb 
text, and Twin Rivers Offset, 40 lb text.