Sustainability at  
Avery Dennison 
2020 Sustainability Report
2020 Integrated 
Sustainability Report 
and Annual Report; 
2021 Proxy Statement
2020 Integrated Sustainability Report and  
Annual Report; 2021 Proxy StatementMaking a Material 
Difference Making a Material Difference
© 2021 Avery Dennison Corp. all rights 
reserved. Avery Dennison, the “triangle logo,” 
Wet Strength, Estate Label, Plus, Supreme 
Wrapping, MPI 1000, Core Series, EcoCut, 
Surfas, ClearIntent, and CleanFlake are 
trademarks of Avery Dennison Corp. All other 
brands are the property of their respective 
owners and imply no endorsement by the 
brand owner of Avery Dennison Corp. or 
products of Avery Dennison Corp.In support of our commitment to sustainability, 
the paper for this annual report is Forest 
Stewardship Council® (FSC®) certified, which 
promotes environmentally responsible, 
socially beneficial and economically viable 
management of the world’s forests.
Printed on Rolland Enviro Print, 80 lb cover and 
80 lb text, and Twin Rivers Offset, 40 lb text.Avery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report2Message From Our Chairman, 
President and CEO
In a year that brought challenges unlike any our company  
has ever faced, our global Avery Dennison team demonstrated 
tremendous agility in delivering for our stakeholders. By 
consistently applying our foundational attributes of  
materials science innovation and leveraging our global  
scale and operational excellence, we made solid progress 
against our long-term strategic priorities, despite a  
challenging environment.
 “In our ongoing commitment to operate a  
sustainable business and serve as a force for 
good both environmentally and socially, we  
continue to pursue our 2025 sustainability goals.”
Navigating the challenges of COVID-19
We entered the pandemic from a position of financial, 
operational and commercial strength, and our company is 
once again proving its resilience. Our teams adapted quickly  
to new commercial and operational norms, responding 
decisively with best-practice safety protocols and measures 
to protect our profitability in a lower-growth environment.  
Our focus continues to be on ensuring the health and  
well-being of our employees, delivering for our customers, 
supporting our communities and minimizing the impact of  
the pandemic-driven recession on our shareholders, while 
continuing to invest in the long-term success of our company.
Solid progress toward our long-term  
financial goals and new 2025 targets
We increased adjusted earnings per share and delivered 
record free cash flow in 2020 despite a modest decline in sales 
due to market conditions. A key priority in this low-growth 
environment has been to protect our overall profitability, and 
we’ve delivered, expanding our margins significantly. And after 
substantially meeting or exceeding our long-term financial 
goals for the last two cycles, we’re largely on track to deliver 
our 2021 goals, and are again raising the bar, recently 
establishing new 2025 targets.Progress toward sustainability—and three  
new goals
In our ongoing commitment to operate a sustainable business 
and serve as a force for good both environmentally and socially, 
we continue to pursue our 2025 sustainability goals. In this 
report, we are also announcing three new sustainability goals  
for 2030, which we will pursue in parallel with our 2025 targets.
Continuing to demonstrate our resilience
Entering 2021, we remain confident in our ability to deliver 
value for all of our stakeholders by executing our five core 
business strategies and making further progress toward our 
long-term goals, including consistent delivery of GDP-plus 
growth and top-quartile return on capital.
Our consistent performance reflects the strength of our markets, 
our industry-leading positions and the strategic foundations 
we’ve laid.  Above all, it speaks to the agility and talent of our  
team members, who have come together in extraordinary ways  
to navigate one of the most demanding periods in our history.  
I thank them for their commitment in 2020. And on their behalf,  
I thank you for your interest in our company.
Mitch ButierRelated Information
Code of Conduct 
Human Rights Policy 
UK Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement 
Avery Dennison Careers 
Avery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report3
Across our company, we’re looking at new ways to apply our materials expertise to invent and engineer 
solutions that advance the circular economy. We’re especially focused on increasing material 
recyclability and the use of recycled content across the industries we serve.
Circular Economy
Advancing the Circular Economy
We’re innovating and collaborating to reduce resource consumption, eliminate waste, 
and create circular processes that allow existing raw materials to be continuously 
reused. We will improve the energy and carbon footprint of our products and services 
through innovation and life-cycle management.
VIEW TOPIC
Sustainable ADvantage
Sustainable ADvantage is a portfolio of products and solutions that enables 
companies across global industries to use fewer natural resources, cut carbon 
emissions, reduce waste, and build towards a low-carbon, circular economy.
VIEW TOPICMaterials Management
We develop products with sustainability in mind, from the materials we use, to  
how they’re constructed or recycled at end-of-life.Sustainable products start with 
sustainable sourcing. Wherever possible, we responsibly source sustainable materials 
that improve environmental health.
VIEW TOPICAvery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report4Advancing the Circular Economy
Across our company, we are engineering solutions for 
advancing the circular economy. We are particularly  
focused on increasing materials recyclability and using 
recycled content in our products. 
Governance
The Governance Committee of our Board of Directors  
provides oversight of environmental sustainability strategies. 
In addition, our full Board engages with business leaders on 
their sustainability initiatives during its regular review of their 
business strategies. In July and December 2020, our board held 
strategy sessions focused on environmental sustainability and 
our innovation efforts addressing the increasing demand for 
sustainable products. 
In 2020 we launched two strategic innovation platforms within 
our LGM business: “Reduce and Eliminate” and “Circularity.” 
Each platform has a senior leader as its champion. Through 
these platforms, we are embedding thinking and innovation 
related to circularity and materials reduction in more parts of 
our business. 
Goals 
Several of our 2025 and 2030 sustainability goals are aimed at 
advancing the circular economy. 
2025 Targets
• Ensure that 70% of our products and solutions conform to, 
or enable end products to conform to,  
our environmental and social guiding principles.
Related Information
2030 Targets
Retail Branding and Information Solutions
• 100% of products within our Core Product Categories  
will meet our third-party verified Sustainable  
Advantage standards.
Label and Graphic Materials
• 100% of Core Film and Paper Product Categories  
will contain recycled or renewable content. All of  
our regions will have labels that enable circularity  
of plastics.
• Continued investment and industry collaboration to 
provide the industry with recycling outlets globally.
• Expand the adoption of Intelligent Labeling to enable our 
industries to communicate data, reduce costs and waste, 
and create smarter recycling processes.Alignment of 2025 Sustainability Goals to the SDGs 
2030 Targets 
ESG Download Avery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report5Innovation 
Innovation is one of our core values and is critical to our  
efforts to advance the circular economy, improve business 
performance, and reduce the environmental impact of our 
products and operations. Our business is built on research and 
development and expanding the boundaries of what’s possible. 
During 2020, innovation was a priority of our Board and  
senior management team. We continued to invest in innovation 
platforms focused on enabling circularity and on eliminating 
waste. For example, our “Reduce and Eliminate” platform  
is investigating solutions to eliminate label liner from our 
pressure-sensitive label products. In 2020, we also assessed 
the risks of investing in disruptive technologies that could  
help us achieve circularity. As the heart of our research and 
development programs, our Centers of Technology and 
Innovation and Customer Design and Innovation provide 
state-of-the-art facilities to drive collaboration, creativity,  
and product development. They are strategically located 
around the globe to advance innovation and develop  
solutions for our customers. 
EcoDesign
EcoDesign is a multi-disciplinary and criteria-based  
process to develop products that will have positive social, 
environmental, and financial impact. We’re currently piloting  
it in facilities in Europe, with the aim of implementing it across 
our entire enterprise. EcoDesign methodology provides 
guidelines for the entire development process, from ideation 
to implementation, to ensure that each successive generation 
of product is more sustainable than the last. We also use 
EcoDesign to scrutinize the use of chemicals in our products 
more strictly than what is required by law (e.g., REACH).  
We are working to expand our usage of EcoDesign across  
our enterprise. 
Sustainable Advantage
Our Avery Dennison Sustainable Advantage™ portfolio 
contains hundreds of products that help our customers and 
their end-users reduce materials consumption, shrink their 
environmental footprint, and support safety, fairness, and 
human rights. Sustainable Advantage products include labels 
made with paper certified by the Forest Stewardship Council, 
adhesives that make plastic bottles more recyclable, and 
apparel labels made from renewable resources in factories 
that meet stringent standards for worker safety and health. 
Our Sustainable Advantage products align with our 
sustainability goals and principles, while also helping our 
customers meet their goals, satisfy consumer demand, and 
stay ahead of regulations.For a product to qualify for the Avery Dennison Sustainable 
Advantage™ Portfolio, at least one of its components must 
meet at least one of the three sustainability standards:
• Responsible Sourcing: A specific amount of the content 
is verified to come from sustainably sourced materials.
• Reduction of Materials: The component offers 
comparable or superior performance using  
fewer materials.
• Recycle: A specific amount of the content  
is recyclable, made of recycled content, or  
enables recycling.
We apply  concrete, measurable criteria to ensure that 
products meet these standards. 
Intelligent Labels
Intelligent labels or ‘smart labels’—labels inlaid with Radio 
Frequency Identification (RFID) or other technology—are 
changing how consumers shop and engage with brands  
and how companies manage supply chains and protect 
products. As the world’s largest UHF RFID partner, we’re at  
the forefront of this transformation. Our intelligent label 
products  have enormous potential to enable the circular 
 use of products and materials by improving the tracing of 
items across their lifecycle. 
We also promote circularity with our intelligent labels through 
the way that we make them. We take a multifaceted approach, 
reducing materials in our products and operations where we 
can, using materials with recycled content where possible,  
and designing product components that are circular in nature  
that can be recycled or reused. We define recyclability by 
looking beyond our own products and considering the 
products they’ll become part of. We design our intelligent 
labels with their end uses in mind, ensuring that they won’t 
stand in the way of recycling.  
What’s more, in choosing our partnerships and collaborations, 
we prioritize brands creating products that are reusable and 
refillable or encouraging recycling among consumers. As we 
further our development of intelligent labels, we also want to 
promote recycling around the world by making our products 
an enabling technology for smart recycling bins and better 
collection and sorting. Avery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report6Collaborating for greater impact
We partner with organizations committed to advancing  
the circular economy. We are members of the Center for 
Bioplastics and Biocomposites ( CB2) consortium, a National 
Science Foundation Industry & University Cooperative 
Research Center (I/UCRC) that focuses on developing 
high-value biobased products from agricultural and forestry 
feedstocks. Through the Center, we have access to leading 
research and development and to technologies developed  
by the Center. In 2019, we joined the Ellen MacArthur 
Foundation’s Circular Economy 100 (CE100) network. The 
CE100 network includes leading and influential organizations, 
innovators, investors, businesses and governments all working 
to lead the transition to a circular economy. 
We’re also expanding circulairity by collaborating with  
other brands. In 2021, we launched a partnership with  
Los Angeles-based garment recycler Ambercycle in which 
digital care labels from our RBIS business are attached to 
Ambecycle’s garments. The labels provide information about  
a garment’s origins and materials, along with care instructions 
and more, all via a QR code. When the garment’s owner is  
ready to dispose of it, a quick snap of the QR code links to 
instructions for returning the garment  to Ambercycle, where 
 it will be recycled into a new textile.
Reducing Operational Waste 
We are also incorporating circular economy principles in our 
operations as we reduce waste, divert waste from landfills,  
and improve materials use efficiency. Each of our business 
units has developed initiatives to reduce waste and return 
materials to our value chain. Y ou can learn more about our 
waste management practices in our section on Waste . Promoting Circularity With Our Materials
The materials we use to make our products can promote 
circularity throughout our value chain. As with waste reduction, 
each of our business units has developed initiatives to use 
more recycled content and returnable materials in their 
products. Y ou can learn more about our sustainable sourcing  
in our section on Materials Management .
Increasing the Recycling of Used Label Materials
Tons of used label liners and matrix are sent to landfills every 
year. In 2021, we set out to change the habits of brands and 
packagers by introducing AD Circular, a comprehensive 
program providing recycling of used label materials, in places 
where we operate around the world. Through the program, 
companies can use an online web application to schedule 
pickup and transportation of used label materials to one of  
our recycling partners, at a cost comparable to landfilling or 
incineration. The web app also provides useful data in the form 
of regularly updated analytics and certificates on the amount 
of recycled liner material, the amount of CO2 emissions users 
have avoided as a result, and more.
AD Circular is currently operational in China and eight 
countries in Europe (France, Spain, Belgium, Poland, Denmark, 
Sweden, Germany, and the United Kingdom). We plan to 
expand it further in 2021 and 2022.
Apparel Solutions
Turning Manufacturing Waste into New Products
We’re exploring ways to minimize our manufacturing waste by using it to create new products. We started by looking for ways to 
reuse waste from our textile processing. We began with two questions: Which of our manufacturing materials is most suitable for 
regeneration? And which is common to all our woven production? The answer was selvages—the edges of fabric trimmed off during 
production. We call the resulting product Albert YarnTM. It’s 100% polyester, with a natural touch and feel. Best of all, it successfully 
repurposes textile waste as a new resource. Production of the Albert Yarn raw material involves no chemical processes, and since it’s 
made from pre-consumer production waste, its manufacture requires no fossil materials and 72% less water and 15% less energy 
than comparable conventional yarn.
Label and Packaging Materials
Leading our industry toward the elimination of label waste
In 2020, we joined other leading members of the pressure-sensitive label industry in announcing the creation of the Circular 
Economy for Labels consortium (CELAB). With just 52% of matrix and liner waste recycled globally, CELAB is catalyzing a unified 
effort to accelerate recycling among label users. Avery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report7Our participation in CELAB reflects our strategic commitment to support programs and companies that enable the collection and 
recycling of matrix and liner waste. Another example: Avery Dennison Brazil is working with POLPEL, a company dedicated to the 
treatment of hard-to-recycle paper, to give a second life to paper liner waste. Through the program, liner is collected from our label 
and packaging materials plant in Brazil, recycled into pulp, and made into paper towels used in the plant. The process repurposes 
nearly four tons of paper each year.
RFID
Introducing atma.io 
atma.io, which we launched in 2021, is a digital platform that unlocks the power of connected products by assigning unique  
digital IDs to everyday items. It provides unparalleled end-to-end transparency by tracking, storing, and managing all the events 
associated with an item, from source to consumer and beyond. We designed atma.io in part to increase the traceability of packages 
and products across their lifecycles so that more of them can be reused or recycled.Avery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report8Materials Management
Sustainable products start with sustainable sourcing. We 
increasingly source materials with reduced environmental 
impact, more recycled content, and fewer associated 
greenhouse gas emissions. We also procure materials that 
meet our standards for safety and for human and labor rights.   
Governance
Our Avery Dennison Supplier Standards describe  
the standards our suppliers are required to meet. We  
require suppliers to sign and agree to our enterprise and 
business-specific supplier standards, along with a declaration 
acknowledging our zero-tolerance policies for forced labor 
and other human rights abuses. Each of our business units is 
responsible for managing its supply chains in alignment with 
our enterprise standards. Our businesses share information 
about suppliers they have in common. 
Goals
We have established ambitious goals to advance the 
environmental and social sustainability of our supply chain 
along with delivering sustainable products to customers. 
Reaching our sustainability goals requires close collaboration 
with our suppliers as we support their continuous 
improvement. We also perform quarterly reviews with each  
of our commodity managers, which are then reviewed with  
our CEO and Senior Director of Operations, to ensure we  
are on track toward our objectives.
Related Information
2025 Targets
• Source 100% certified paper, of which at least 70% is 
Forest Stewardship Council®-certified
• Ensure that 70% of films we buy conform to, or enable  
end products to conform to, our environmental and social 
guiding principles
• Ensure that 70% of chemicals we buy conform to, or 
enable end products to conform to, our environmental 
and social guiding principles
2030 Target 
• Source 100% of paper fiber from certified sources 
focused on a deforestation-free futureResponsible Paper Procurement Policy 
CDP Forest Response 
Supplier Standards 
2030 Targets 
ESG Download Avery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report92030 Targets – LGM
• 100% of Core Film and Paper Product Categories will 
contain recycled or renewable content. All of our regions 
will have labels that enable circularity of plastics.
• Engage 80% of our spend of LGM’s direct suppliers on 
their environmental and social policies including water, 
human rights, fair business, forestry, etc.
Designing with More Sustainable Materials 
From a product’s conception, we consider the environmental 
and social impacts of the materials we use. Our MatcheckTM 
lifecycle analysis tool, which allows us to complete an initial 
lifecycle analysis of a material to determine the positive and 
negative environmental effects of incorporating it into our 
products., along with Eco-Design principles we’re currently 
testing in Europe, inform our innovation. Resulting products 
that meet our strict criteria earn a home in our Sustainable 
AdvantageTM portfolio. 
Sustainable AdvantageTM
Our Avery Dennison Sustainable Advantage™ portfolio 
contains hundreds of products that help our customers and 
their end-users decrease materials consumption, reduce their 
environmental footprint, and support safety, fairness, and 
human rights. Sustainable Advantage products include labels 
made with paper certified by the Forest Stewardship Council, 
adhesives that make plastic bottles more recyclable, and 
apparel labels made from renewable resources in factories 
that meet stringent standards for worker safety and health. 
Our Sustainable Advantage products align with our 
sustainability goals and principles, while also helping our 
customers meet their goals, satisfy consumer demand, and 
stay ahead of regulations.
For a product to qualify for the Avery Dennison Sustainable 
Advantage™ Portfolio, at least one of its components must 
meet at least one of the three sustainability standards:
• Responsible Sourcing: A specific amount of  
the content is verified to come from sustainably sourced 
materials.
• Reduction of Materials: The component offers 
comparable or superior performance using  
fewer materials.
• Recycle: A specific amount of the content  
is recyclable, made of recycled content, or  
enables recycling.
We apply concrete, measurable criteria to ensure that 
products meet these standards. EcoDesign
EcoDesign is a multi-disciplinary and criteria-based process 
to develop products that have positive social, environmental, 
and financial impact. We’re currently piloting it in facilities in 
Europe, with the aim of implementing it across our entire 
enterprise. EcoDesign methodology provides guidelines for the 
entire development process, from ideation to implementation, 
to ensure that each successive generation of product is more 
sustainable than the last. We also use EcoDesign to scrutinize 
the use of chemicals in our products more strictly than what is 
required by law (e.g., REACH). We are working to expand our 
usage of EcoDesign across our enterprise. 
Restricted Substances 
We closely monitor scientific developments, regulations, and 
customer and consumer preferences to maintain a Restricted 
Substances List (RSL) for our company which is followed by 
LGM and IHM. The RSL enables us to provide our customers 
with innovative and cost-effective solutions while meeting 
stakeholder expectations and maintaining compliance with 
laws and regulations. 
In 2021, we communicated an updated Restricted Substances 
List  (RSL) to our RBIS suppliers. This RSL was developed 
based on legal requirements, RSL from the American Apparel 
and Footwear Associations, AFIRM, and requirements from our 
retail and business customers. Suppliers are responsible for 
ensuring the content of the products they supply us with do 
not exceed the maximum allowed value or is not detected 
above the detection limit based on the specified analytical 
test methods. To help ensure compliance, we conduct annual 
training on our RSL to our suppliers
Responsible Paper Procurement
As a significant stakeholder in the supply chain of pulp and 
paper products, we play an important role in promoting and 
providing sustainable and socially responsible paper products. 
Our unique position in the value chain allows us to collaborate 
with a range of business partners in reducing environmental 
impacts. We employ science-based analysis to provide the 
foundation for our responsible paper procurement program.
Our Responsible Paper Procurement Policy details our 
commitments and expectations of pulp and paper suppliers. 
We have committed to sourcing 100% of our paper fiber from 
certified sources, with a preference for Forest Stewardship 
Council (FSC) certification. The Rainforest Alliance annually 
conducts a validation of our paper certifications, identifying 
our risks for non-certified risk and unknown sources of paper 
and providing corrective actions. Avery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report10Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
in Our Supply Chain 
Purchased goods and services account for most of our Scope 
3 greenhouse gas emissions. In support of our 2030 target to 
reduce our scope 3 emissions by 30%, we are using EcoVadis 
and our CDP Supply Chain membership to gain additional 
insights into the carbon footprint of our suppliers. We are 
collaborating with our suppliers to support GHG reduction 
efforts in their operations. We’re also sourcing recycled 
materials and advancing recyclability across our supply  
chain. Y ou can learn more about our GHG emission reduction 
efforts in our section on GHG Emissions and Energy .
Promoting Human Rights in Our Supply Chain 
We are committed to treating our employees with dignity and 
respect, and to helping ensure that employees in our supply 
chain are treated the same way. In 2020, we published our 
Avery Dennison Human Rights Policy . Our policy is guided  
by widely accepted human rights principles, including those 
articulated in the International Labor Organization’s 1998 
Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work,  
and in the United Nations Global Compact. We expect our 
suppliers to adhere to our Human Rights Policy as well as our 
Supplier Standards, which also describe our expectations for 
how workers will be treated. 
Suppliers to our RBIS division must also comply with additional 
standards governing labor and human rights practices, which 
are described in RBIS’ Supplier Code . These align with the 
standards set out in the OECD Integrated Compliance 
Assurance Programme. 
In 2021, in response to global events and in advance of pending 
legislation in Europe and the U.S., we communicated with our 
suppliers to reaffirm our prohibition of forced and child labor 
in our supply chain, and to remind them of the terms of our 
Supplier Code, which include our right to terminate supplier 
relationships if a Code violation occurs. We asked suppliers to 
reconfirm that they had no instances of forced or child labor. If 
a supplier was unable to do so, we worked in collaboration with 
our legal team to remediate the situation, or, when that was not 
possible, to end our relationship with that supplier.  Evaluating Suppliers
To ensure we work with suppliers who align with our ethical and 
environmental standards, we regularly evaluate our supplier 
relationships through our Sustainable Procurement Program. 
This collaborative evaluation platform provides our suppliers 
with sustainability ratings and performance improvement 
tools. Each year, with our partner, EcoVadis, we review 
suppliers together representing more than 80% of our direct 
spend on materials for LGM. EcoVadis audits a company’s 
environmental practices, fair business practices, working 
conditions, and supply chain. Supplier audit scores and 
corrective actions are available in EcoVadis’ online system  
for any competitor or customer who requests the information.  
Our Sustainable Procurement Program received a Label 
Industry Global Award in 2018 and the Future of Sourcing 
Award  in 2019.
When a supplier does not meet our expectations, we connect 
with the supplier to discuss opportunities for improvement 
and establish corrective action plans when needed. When 
corrective action is required, suppliers have two opportunities 
to improve their score before we begin evaluating alternative 
materials or sources. 
Recognizing Supplier Excellence 
We honor our suppliers with the Avery Dennison Supplier 
Distinction Award for extraordinary service to our business. 
We consider four areas of excellence: Sustainability, Quality, 
Service, and Strategic Growth. To be eligible for recognition, a 
supplier must meet  key metrics in each of the four areas.
2018 2019 2020
Paper Sourcing 
Percentage of total paper volume from certified sources 87% 89% 92%
Percentage of paper sourced with FSC certification, Face paper 76% 79% 83%
Percentage of paper sourced with FSC certification, Total paper 45% 52% 51%Avery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report112018 2019 2020
Aluminum Sourcing 
Total aluminum purchased (metric tons) 619 770
Percentage of aluminum purchased from certified sources 6% 45%
Labor Impacts in the Supply Chain
Percentage of Tier 1 supplier facilities that have been audited to a labor code of conduct 90% 83%
Percentage of supplier facilities beyond Tier 1 that have been audited to a labor code of conduct 46% 66%
Percentage of total audits conducted by a third-party auditor 100% 100%
Apparel Solutions
Balancing Innovation and Responsibility with RAEBURN®
Christopher Raeburn’s fashion brand RAEBURN is known for re-appropriating military fabrics and especially for creating iconic 
outerwear from decommissioned parachutes. Its RÆMADE ethos guides and influences every aspect of the brand’s design and 
development. We worked with Christopher Raeburn to develop woven patches made from 100% recycled yarn, helping him achieve 
his vision of both innovative and responsible design.
Intelligent Labels
Creating Chemical-Free RFID Tags
One way to produce RFID tags is to use chemicals to etch the antennas. But doing so requires potentially dangerous chemicals, such 
as phosphoric acid, acetic acid, and nitric acid. We’ve innovated new manufacturing methods including cutting the antenna material 
with dies and lasers rather than through chemical etching. This avoids the use of harmful chemicals and makes it possible to recycle 
the matrix from our RFID rolls—some 127 ,000 pounds to date.
Graphics Solutions
New PVC-Free Digitally Printable Film
We recently launched a premium high-gloss polyurethane film designed for vehicle wrapping and outdoor architectural applications 
that require a PVC-free solution. It’s manufactured using PVC-and phthalate-free film technology, along with a solvent-free 
adhesive. It contains no PVCs or monomeric plasticizers, eliminating halogen-related disposal concerns.Avery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report12Sustainable ADvantage
Sustainable ADvantage is a portfolio of products and solutions 
that enables companies across global industries to use fewer 
natural resources, cut carbon emissions, reduce waste, and 
build towards a low-carbon, circular economy. Through digital 
strategies and intelligent labeling solutions, Sustainable 
ADvantage drives circularity and provides customers with 
invaluable insight on their supply chain impact.
Our Sustainable ADvantage solutions are as varied as the 
global marketplace they support. They include labels and  
tags made with recycled content; adhesives that enable  
more plastic to be recycled; water-efficient digital printers; 
industrial tapes to replace heavier fasteners; compostable 
packaging for shipping; digital ID technologies (such as 
RFID-equipped labels that dramatically improve supply  
chain efficiency, reduce waste and improve transparency);  
and tools and services to empower companies to make not 
just their products more sustainable, but their operations too.
Avery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report13
In everything we do, we strive to be a force for good that creates long-term value for all of our 
stakeholders. Among other things, that means innovating and operating in ways that have a positive 
impact on people and the planet.
GHG Emissions and Energy Use
As part of our effort to improve energy efficiency and reduce GHG emissions, our LGM 
and RBIS businesses have annual energy intensity improvement targets, measured as 
megawatt hours of electricity and natural gas consumed per unit of production. We’ve 
used ASPIRE, our environmental, health, and safety data-management system to track 
the progress for each of our sites around the globe.
Environmental Footprint
VIEW TOPIC
Waste
We’re inventing new products and re-engineering existing ones to reduce waste and 
increase the efficient use of materials.The strategy and targets to reduce hazardous 
waste are encompassed within our broader waste reduction plan.
VIEW TOPICAvery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report14GHG Emissions and Energy Use
In our industry and across those we serve, we’re helping to 
 lead the development of a sustainable economy– one that is 
circular, regenerative, and lower carbon. Our sustainability 
goals include critical  milestones for reaching net zero 
emissions by 2050, starting with our own operations and 
expanding to include our supply chain. We also support the 
global effort to reduce emissions as a World Wildlife Fund 
Climate Savers partner, as a member of the Renewable Energy 
Buyers Alliance, and as a signatory of the American Business 
Act on Climate Pledge.
GHG Governance
The Avery Dennison Sustainability Council, which consists of  
a subset of our Company Leadership Team and leaders from 
our business units and functions, is responsible for advancing 
our sustainability strategy and objectives, including our GHG 
emissions reduction target and climate-related strategy. At 
least annually, the Sustainability Council reviews strategy, 
policy and performance with our Company Leadership Team. 
In addition, we include the acute physical risks and and  
the transitional economic and social risks posed by climate 
change in our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework, 
which our Board of Directors and Governance Committee 
review annually. Our ERM process informs the risks we 
describe in our quarterly and annual reports to the Securities 
and Exchange Commission and helps us refine our long-term 
strategies. As we  identify business risks, we develop and 
implement mitigation strategies to address them.
Related Information
Our Board of Directors reviews progress towards our 
sustainability goals annually and considers it when  
evaluating our Chief Executive Officer’s compensation.  
A portion of our CEO’s annual incentive award is dependent  
on delivering on our 2025 sustainability goals. Our CEO, in  
turn, provides guidance and direction to our Vice President 
and General Manager of our Retail Branding and Information 
Solutions (RBIS) business, who leads our Sustainability 
Council and is responsible for ensuring progress towards  
our goals.
For further discussion of our Climate Change strategy and 
performance, please see our 2020 CDP Climate Response .CDP 2020 Climate Change Response 
Climate Change Policy 
Alignment of 2025 Sustainability Goals to the SDGs 
2030 Targets 
ESG Download Avery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report15Climate Change Policy 
Our Climate Change Policy details our strategy for managing 
climate-related issues within our organization and throughout 
our value chain. The policy was approved by senior 
management, including our CEO, and made available to our 
employees and all stakeholders via our company website.
Goals
In 2015, we established our goal to reduce our absolute  
GHG emissions by 3% year-over-year, and by at least 26% 
compared to our 2015 baseline, by 2025. We exceeded that 
goal within five years of setting it, cutting emissions by 
approximately 42% compared to the 2015 baseline in  
YE 2020. We are confident that we can continue to make 
substantial progress, and have codified that expectation  
in our 2030 sustainability goals. 
By 2030, we plan to reduce our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 
by 70% from our 2015 baseline, and to  work with our supply 
chain to reduce our Scope 3 GHG emissions by 30% from our 
2018 baseline. Our ambition is to achieve net zero emissions  
by 2050. We intend to reach these goals by creating more 
sustainable products and processes, and by collaborating  
with customers, suppliers, and other stakeholders. 
Increasing Energy Efficiency 
Natural gas and electricity are the primary energy sources  
for our operations, accounting for 97% of our scope 1 and 2 
energy emissions YE 2020. We implement energy efficiency 
projects to reduce our electricity and natural gas 
consumption, particularly where we do not have a viable 
alternative to natural gas. We have established several annual 
capital budgets for energy efficiency projects including the 
implementation of  LED lighting and improvements in our  
HVAC systems. We also regularly improve energy efficiency  
in our manufacturing processes. As one example,we have 
executed multiple projects to reduce natural gas consumption 
in the process used for drying our pressure-sensitive  label 
products after they are coated. 
Sourcing Renewable Energy 
Though electricity makes up a lower percentage of the total 
energy we consume, its emissions impact is higher than that  
of our natural gas consumption. To address this, we source 
renewable energy whenever feasible. In 2018, we committed  
to a Virtual Power Purchase Agreement (VPPA) supporting the 
construction of a wind farm in Wayne County Nebraska, which 
became operational in June 2020. The VPPA is a primary 
source of our renewable energy portfolio and covers 75% of 
our electricity consumption in the U.S. We also use on-site 
generation assets like rooftop solar where possible, and 
purchase renewable energy credits (RECs). Reducing Our Scope 3 Emissions
In 2018, we completed our scope 3 GHG emissions inventory 
and determined that upstream goods and services is our 
largest category of scope 3 emissions, due to the volumes  
of paper, film, and chemicals to make our adhesives we 
purchase. Accordingly, we set a 2030 sustainability goal to 
reduce our scope 3 emissions by 30% and are partnering  
with CDP Supply Chain and EcoVadis to collect energy and 
emissions-related data from our key suppliers in order to 
partner with them to achieve our target. 
To understand opportunities for reducing our carbon footprint, 
we use MatcheckTM, a lifecycle analysis tool we developed for 
the materials we source. Our analysis has shown that making 
significant reductions in our scope 3 emissions requires us to 
substantially reduce the volumes of materials we purchase 
while simultaneously switching to materials with a reduced 
carbon footprint. Our business units have begun making these 
adjustments, and, at the enterprise level, we are analyzing how 
to re-engineer and reduce material usage while maintaining or 
improving product quality. In partnership with Carbon Trust , we 
are working to create a tool that will enable us to capture our 
holistic carbon picture. This tool will provide specific carbon 
emissions information for our products based on their region 
of production, raw material sourcing, and different end-of-life 
scenarios. We plan to fully launch this tool in 2022. 
In addition to reducing upstream emissions, we also see 
significant opportunities to reduce the downstream and 
end-of-life impact of our products through RFID and other 
digital identity technologies developed  by our Intelligent 
Labels group. By giving each of our products a traceable 
identity, we might soon be able to ensure that the item is 
reclaimed or recycled at the end of its useful life. Y ou can  
learn more about our technologies for enabling the circular 
economy in our section on Advancing the Circular Economy . Avery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report16Unit 2018 2019 2020
Performance
Energy consumption
Energy consumption intensity
Total energy consumption GJ 6,262K 6,003K 5952K
Percentage grid electricity % 35% 36% 36%
Percentage renewable % 12% 14% 19%
Total self-generated energy % <1% <1% <1%
GHG Emissions
Total scope 1 + scope 2 GHG emissions metric tons 503K 474K 402K
Direct (scope 1) GHG emissions metric tons 35% 36% 36%
Indirect (scope 2) GHG emissions, market-based metric tons 196K 192k 19%
Other Indirect (scope 3) GHG emissions metric tons 3,322K
Label and Packaging Materials
Increasing our Solar Capacity
Our commitment to reducing emissions requires looking beyond energy efficiency to strategies such as generating energy from 
renewable sources like solar. In Kunshan, India, we installed solar panels covering about 10,000 square meters on the roof of our 
Label and Packaging Materials facility. The panels generate about 800,000 kilowatt-hours annually per our power purchase 
agreement, reducing coal consumption by 288 tons each year and avoiding 711 tons of resulting carbon dioxide emissions.
Apparel Solutions
Leading by Example in Norway
Our Norway facility, which manufactures heat transfer labels and embellishments—including names and numbers for FC Barcelona 
uniforms— is located between glaciers and a raging river. We use cold water from the river to cool the facility, reducing its energy use 
by more than 95%.
The site is also certified by Eco-Lighthouse, Norway’s most widely used certification for companies seeking to document their 
environmental efforts and demonstrate social responsibility. 
Performance Tapes
Using Wind in Belgium to Help Meet our Sustainability Goals
In 2017 , in cooperation with Eneco, a supplier of renewable energy, our team installed its first on-site wind turbine. The tower went up at 
our Turnhout, Belgium, facility, which produces pressure-sensitive tapes and medical products. In just one year, our new wind turbine 
generated 4.3 gigawatt-hours out of a maximum capacity of 4.8, which is 25% of the Turnhout plant’s annual energy consumption.Avery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report17Waste
We’re innovating new products and re-engineering existing 
ones to reduce waste and increase the efficient use of 
materials. We also continually identify ways to reduce waste  
in our global operations. Our waste management initiatives 
help reduce costs, keep materials out of landfills, and reduce 
the consumption of natural resources. 
Governance
Our internal waste management standard, overseen by our 
corporate Environment Health and Safety team, guides waste 
reduction, reuse, and recycling at each of our sites. We’ve 
established a waste minimization plan based on this standard 
to advance our waste reduction and diversion goal. 
Goals 
By 2030, we announced a goal  to have our operations be 95% 
landfill-free, with a minimum of 80% of our waste recycled and 
the remainder reused, composted, or sent to energy recovery. 
This builds on our 2025 goal of having 75% of our waste reused, 
repurposed, or recycled. Because the waste streams at our 
facilities differ, each site sets waste reduction goals based on 
its waste generation, which in turn support corporate or 
divisional goals. 
We are also working toward our 2025 goal of eliminating 70% of 
the matrix and liner waste from our value chain. To that end, we 
co-founded the Circular Economy for Labels consortium 
(CELAB) with other leading members of the pressure-sensitive 
label industry. And in 2021, we launched AD Circular, a program 
enabling users of our label products to easily and affordably 
recycle used  liners and matrix. 
Related Information
Progress towards our goals is reviewed by the Avery Dennison 
Sustainability Council, which consists of members of our 
Company Leadership Team and leaders from our business 
units. The Sustainability Council reports to the Board of 
Directors and/or its Governance Committee at least annually. 
Making Progress Toward Zero Waste
We continue to increase the number of facilities that meets 
our criterion for “Zero Waste” designation—sending less than 
2% of their waste to a landfill for six consecutive months. We 
have successfully diverted 94% of our waste in 2020. Often the 
biggest challenge in reaching Zero Waste is finding partners 
and financially viable solutions for recycling or reusing waste. 
In addition, the market for recycled materials remains dynamic 
and challenging. 
We also reduce waste by continually stressing efficient use  
of materials throughout our product development process to 
minimize scrap waste. We are also collaborating with a range  
of partners to advance our Zero Waste objective.Alignment of 2025 Sustainability Goals to the SDGs  
2030 Targets 
ESG Download Avery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report18Handling Hazardous Waste
Our global waste management standard establishes 
procedures for handling chemical waste and contaminated 
materials. When handling and disposing hazardous waste,  
we aim to follow applicable legal requirements and standards. 
Regulations often require that our hazardous waste be 
gathered and incinerated for safe disposal. When able and 
feasible, we reclaim our hazardous waste for reuse within our 
operations or to be distributed for reuse by other companies. Reusing Wastewater
We’re working with various partners to re-use wastewater  
from our facilities. For example, our wastewater goes to waste 
management companies that use the wastewater as a coolant 
for their boilers. At our Ft. Wayne, Indiana, plant, solids in 
wastewater from our manufacturing operations are being 
treated in an anaerobic “digester,” which breaks down waste  
to produce biogas for energy generation and generate energy 
and biofertilizer that can replace traditional forms of fertilizer.
Unit 2018 2018 2020
Waste Performance
Waste Generation
Total waste generated metric tons 155,918 162,485 1 5 7,0 1 2
Hazardous waste metric tons 16,449 1 7,6 52 16,287
Non-hazardous waste metric tons 138,469 144,832 140,725
Percent of waste diverted from landfill 93% 94% 94%
Percent of waste recycled 64% 65% 66%
Percent of Hazardous waste recycled 17% 23% 23%
Percent of waste landfilled 6.6% 5.7% 5.7%
Designing Solutions that Reduce Waste
Printer Solutions: Eliminating Waste in Logistics Labels
Our ADTP®2 EcoCutTM Solution produces variable-length labels for labeling pallets, cartons, and other logistics units. It uses a 
continuous label roll combined with an innovative, proprietary cutting mechanism in the printer. This allows the user to choose the 
exact length and quantity of labels needed, on demand. By eliminating waste, EcoCut delivers significant cost savings, increased 
productivity, and improved sustainability.
Label and Packaging Materials: Leaving Out the Liner
There’s no liner waste with our Direct Thermal linerless solution because it doesn’t require the use of label materials with liners.  
As a result, customers can get up to 60% more labels per roll, resulting in fewer roll changes, faster operations, and better use of 
warehouse space. Our Direct Thermal solution also reduces matrix waste by eliminating the need for die-cutting.
Apparel Solutions: Turning Manufacturing Waste into New Products
We’re exploring ways to use our manufacturing waste to create new products. We started with our textile processing, posing two 
questions: Which of our manufacturing materials is most suitable for regeneration? And which is common to all our woven 
production? The answer was selvages—the edges of fabric trimmed off during production, which we now turn into Albert YarnTM,  
a 100% recycled polyester product, with a natural touch and feel.Avery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report19RFID: Reducing U.S. Food Waste
Food waste is a complex global issue that adds to greenhouse gas emissions, sends more garbage to landfills, and wastes millions of 
dollars along with the food. Based on pilot studies, tagging food items with our RFID solutions can help grocers reduce food waste 
by as much as 20%. ReFED, a national nonprofit dedicated to ending food loss and waste in the U.S. food system, has listed our RFID 
solutions as a food waste prevention tool in its report, Roadmap to 2030: Reducing U.S. Food Waste by 50%.Avery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report20
We cannot be a force for good outside our company if we don’t emphasize ethics, integrity, compliance, 
and transparency in our own operations. That’s why we work constantly to ensure that our employees 
and business partners know, understand, and live up to our Code of Conduct and high ethical standards.
Governance
Ethical Practices
We work continually to ensure that our employees and business partners know, 
understand and live up to our Code of Conduct and high ethical standards. By 
extension, our suppliers are part of our culture, so we do our best to hold them to the 
same ethical standards we follow.
VIEW TOPIC
Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement
Our policies and practices help ensure legal and regulatory compliance and 
transparency in the areas of human rights, labor, and the environment in our  
supply chain.
VIEW TOPIC
Oversight of ESG
With strategic guidance and direction provided by our Chairman, President and CEO, 
responsibility over ensuring that we continue to make meaningful progress toward 
achieving our sustainability goals resides with our Vice President and General 
Manager of our Retail Branding and Information Solutions (RBIS) business.
VIEW TOPICAvery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report21Ethical Practices
Being a force for good begins with how we do business—with 
building a culture rooted in eight closely held values and 
setting high expectations for compliance and transparency 
throughout our operations.  That’s why we work constantly to 
ensure that our employees and business partners know, 
understand, and live up to our values, Code of Conduct and 
high ethical standards.
Governance 
The Audit and Finance Committee of our Board of Directors 
oversees adherence to the Avery Dennison Code of Ethics  
and ensures that our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial 
Officer, and Chief Accounting Office act professionally and 
ethically in fulfilling their responsibilities and set an example 
for every employee. Additionally, our Chief Compliance  
Officer is responsible for implementing our Code of Conduct 
throughout the enterprise, with oversight from the Governance 
Committee of our Board of Directors. 
Code of Conduct 
Our Code of Conduct applies to all our directors, officers  
and employees and reflects our values of integrity, courage, 
external focus, diversity, sustainability, innovation, teamwork 
and excellence. It includes messages from company 
leadership, detailed information on the ethical risks our 
employees are most likely to encounter, and case studies to 
provide guidance on complex ethical questions. Our Code of 
Conduct has been translated into over 30 languages and our 
leaders affirm their commitment to comply with it when they 
join our company and annually thereafter. 
Related Information
We train employees on the Code at least biannually. Annually, 
we conduct an online training program generally consisting  
of four courses covering specific risks addressed in the Code. 
Computer-based employees are required to complete  
the training each year. To ensure that the policies and 
principles encompassed in our Code of Conduct reach  
all our employees, we provide three “Talkabout” toolkits  
globally each year, also in more than 30 languages. The kits  
are based on topics from the Code of Conduct. Managers  
are required to use the kits to engage in meaningful discussion 
with their teams. 
Annual Compliance Certification
Each year, we require all employees at the level of manager 
and above to complete a compliance certification in which 
they must disclose, among other things, whether they or any 
of their immediate family members have a job, contract, or 
other position with an entity that has commercial dealings 
with our company. Employees in individual contributor jobs 
at risk for potential conflicts are certified every other year.  Code of Conduct 
ESG Download Avery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report22In all cases, disclosures are reviewed by our corporate 
compliance department in consultation with our law 
department and senior management to determine whether  
the disclosed activity significantly influences our business. 
Our Chief Compliance Officer provides a report on the 
disclosures to the Governance Committee of our Board of 
Directors. In the most significant cases, the committee is 
tasked with determining whether a conflict exists. 
Business Conduct GuideLine
Our Business Conduct GuideLine is a whistleblower hotline 
available at all hours for employees or third parties to report 
potential violations of our Code of Conduct, anonymously if 
they so choose. We have toll-free hotlines available in every 
country in which we do business to make it easy to report 
potential violations. Potential violations can also be reported 
at averydennison.com /guidelinereport . Our GuideLine is 
operated by an independent third party and accepts reports 
in any language to accommodate our workforce, customers, 
and suppliers worldwide. All reports are investigated under the 
direction of our Chief Compliance Officer in consultation with 
the law department and senior management and with oversight 
from the Governance Committee. We prohibit retaliation for 
good-faith reporting.
Investigating Ethics Violations
We take all reports of ethical violations seriously. Our global 
investigations system enables us to investigate potential 
violations effectively and efficiently. Through this system, we 
investigate at least 200 reports annually. When violations 
occur, we take corrective action and discuss significant 
substantiated matters, trends, and geographic “hotspots”  
with our senior leadership and Board of Directors to promote 
transparency, good governance, and ongoing learning. Helping Our Customers Comply With Regulations
Ever-increasing government regulation of products and  
raw materials has become a strategic issue for many of our 
customers. To help them navigate the regulatory maze, our 
LGM business created its Complete Compliance program. This 
industry-leading service offers our customers unparalleled 
speed and support in ensuring that the solutions we provide 
comply with all applicable regulations. The program helps 
customers stay up-to-date on regulatory developments 
through LinkedIn and Twitter feeds, “Hot Topics” columns in 
customer newsletters, self-service features on our website, 
and direct help from our compliance experts. The Complete 
Compliance Portal allows customers to download customized 
self-service compliance statements, enabling them to get their 
statements - - and get to market - -  quickly.  
Ensuring Supplier Compliance
As part of the Sustainability Procurement Program launched 
by our LGM and IHM businesses, we regularly assess key 
suppliers to ensure they’re complying with applicable 
regulations. With our partner, EcoVadis, LGM and IHM  
review suppliers representing over 80% of our direct spend  
on materials. When a supplier does not meet our expectations, 
we connect with the supplier to discuss opportunities for 
improvement and establish corrective action plans when 
needed. When corrective action is required, suppliers have  
two opportunities to improve their score before we begin 
evaluating alternative materials or sources. Supplier audit 
scores and corrective actions are made available in EcoVadis’ 
online system for any competitor or customer who requests 
the information.Avery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report23Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement
In everything we do, we strive to be a force for good that 
creates long-term value for all of our stakeholders. We seek  
to ensure that our sustainability efforts are consistent with the 
expectations of our stakeholders. We regularly communicate 
with individuals and organizations interested in how we do 
business generally and our sustainability efforts in particular, 
and also conduct stakeholder interviews as part of our regular 
materiality assessments. These assessments help set our 
sustainability agenda, focusing us on the areas in which  
we can have the most impact. In 2020, we partnered with 
Environmental Resources Management to refresh our 
materiality assessment and reprioritize the sustainability 
topics most significant to our stakeholders. 
After updating our materiality assessment to better understand 
the environmental and social sustainability challenges facing 
our company and stakeholders, we reframed our eight 2025 
Related Information
goals into the following three broader goals that we are  
aiming to achieve by 2030: deliver innovations that advance  
the circular economy; reduce the environmental impact in our 
operations and supply chain; and make a positive social impact 
by enhancing the livelihood of our people and communities. 
Within each of these goals, we have specific targets related to 
environmental and social sustainability.2030 Targets 
ESG Download 
Our Stakeholders Methods of Engagement
Industry Working Groups, Conferences
Customers and Brand Owners Product Collaborations, Surveys, Site Audits, Working Groups
EmployeesEngagement Survey,  Works Councils, Employee Resource Groups, Intranet/Town Halls, 
Code of Conduct, Training, Business Conduct Guideline
InvestorsAnnual Meetings, Quarterly Earnings Calls, Investor Meetings, Stockholder Engagement 
Program
Non-Governmental OrganizationsConsultations on Issues of Concern, Specific Initiatives (e.g., responsibly sourcing paper, 
reducing GHG emissions)Avery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report24Our Stakeholders Methods of Engagement
Policymakers and Regulators Permitting, Audits, Certifications
Communities Foundation Grantmaking, Employee volunteerism, Civic Collaboration
Suppliers Supplier Standards, Compliance Training, Supplier Audits, Joint Projects
Apparel Solutions
Designing 100% Sustainable Solutions with Outerknown
We partnered with Outerknown, a menswear company founded by professional surfer Kelly Slater, to incorporate more sustainable 
materials into its products. The brand is famous for pushing consumers to ask, “What are we wearing and where is it coming from?” 
We helped Outerknown incorporate three new solutions: woven labels made of 100% recycled polyester yarn; soy-based ink on 
tags; and labels that dissolve in water.
Label and Packaging Materials
The Advantages of Thinking Thin
Our Label and Packaging Materials team’s expertise in process engineering led them to create our ThinkThin™ portfolio, a complete 
selection of thinner filmic labeling materials. ThinkThin products are made with less oil, water, and energy, resulting in a smaller 
carbon footprint compared to conventional label materials. ThinkThin label constructions are also up to 50% thinner than 
conventional label constructions. This allows for operational efficiencies and reduced storage and transportation.
Printer Solutions
Eliminating Waste in Logistics Labels
Our ADTP®2 EcoCutTM Solution produces variable-length labels for labeling pallets, cartons, and other logistics units. It uses a 
continuous label roll combined with an innovative, proprietary cutting mechanism in the printer. This allows the user to choose the 
exact length and quantity of labels needed, on demand. By eliminating waste, EcoCut delivers significant cost savings, increased 
productivity, and improved sustainability.Avery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report25Oversight of ESG
With strategic guidance and direction provided by our 
Chairman, President and CEO, responsibility over ensuring  
that we continue to make meaningful progress toward 
achieving our 2025 sustainability goals resides with our Vice 
President and General Manager of our Retail Branding and 
Information Solutions (RBIS) business. Our Vice President  
and General Manager of RBIS also leads our enterprise-wide 
Sustainability Council. The Council is comprised of a cross-
divisional and cross-functional group of leaders to drive broad 
accountability and continually accelerate our progres. The 
Council has four work streams to help focus its efforts, each of 
which is led by an internal leader from one of our businesses: 
operations; technology and innovation; products and 
solutions; and social impact and transparency. The Council 
generally meets bimonthly and updates our executive 
leadership team quarterly. 
Board oversight over environmental sustainability and 
community investment is primarily conducted by the 
Governance Committee, which receives a report from 
management on each of these topics at least once a year.  
In addition, our full Board engages with business leaders on 
their sustainability initiatives during its regular review of their 
business strategies. In July and December 2020, our Board held 
strategy sessions focused on environmental sustainability and 
our innovation efforts to address the increasing need and 
demand for more sustainable products. 
Related Information
Board oversight over social sustainability is conducted 
primarily through the Compensation Committee, which 
regularly reviews our diversity and inclusion progress and 
discusses other matters related to human capital management. 
In December 2020, substantially all members of our entire 
Board engaged with, and challenged, management in an 
in-depth discussion of our D+I journey, including by reviewing 
the initiatives being undertaken by each of our Regional D+I 
Councils and analyzing D+I statistics for our executive 
leadership team and our U.S. workforce. 2030 Targets 
ESG Download Avery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report26
We are proud to be a responsible employer of choice for more than 32,000 people around the world, 
contributing to the economic livelihoods of our employees and supporting the communities in which we 
do business. Our ambition is to offer a working environment where every employee’s voice is heard, 
enable all employees to realize their full potential, and to maintain our world-class safety culture. 
Charitable Giving
Our corporate social responsibility efforts include volunteerism and financial support 
of community-based organizations, with most of our community investments made 
through the Avery Dennison Foundation. Through the Foundation, we advance the 
causes of education, sustainability and women’s empowerment in communities where 
our employees live and work. 
People and Community
VIEW TOPICEmployee Safety and Health
The health and safety of our employees is paramount to the ongoing success of our 
business. Across the company, our safety performance has remained strong, thanks 
to a culture that makes safety practices part of our daily routine.
VIEW TOPICDiversity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunity
Diversity is one of our core values, and our pursuit of it indicates our commitment to 
maintaining an inclusive workplace with a rich variety of talents and perspectives. Our 
diverse global workforce and our culture of valuing differing viewpoints are essential 
to our pioneering work in materials science and manufacturing.
VIEW TOPICAvery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report27Diversity, Inclusion, and Equal Opportunity
Avery Dennison is a diverse company, operating in more  
than 50 countries and offering a broad and varied portfolio  
of products and services. Diversity is central to our success 
and to our competitive advantage. It is critical to innovation, 
because the best solutions come from a mix of ideas, 
perspectives and backgrounds. Inclusion—ensuring that  
all of these diverse perspectives are considered—is equally 
important. Our ambition is to offer a working environment 
where every employee’s voice is heard and where all 
employees can realize their full potential. Both diversity  
and inclusion shape our workplace culture and inform the 
ways we engage with customers, suppliers, partners, and the 
communities in which we have a presence. Diversity and 
inclusion are priorities within our company and we seek to 
advance both through robust and progressive policies, 
programs, and systems. 
Governance
Our diversity and inclusion efforts are led by our director  
of diversity and inclusion, who is supported by our  
cross-functional, cross-divisional D&I Council which 
represents the regions in which we operate. The Council  
is chaired by our CEO and advised by our Chief Human 
Resources Officer. 
In recent years, our D&I efforts have included training  
our managers globally on unconscious bias; increasing the  
number of sites offering flexible work arrangements; adding  
an inclusion index to our annual employee engagement  
survey; and providing training around cultural awareness. We 
are signatories of the CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion 
pledge, illustrating our commitment to advance diversity and 
inclusion in partnership with other like-minded organizations. 
Related Information
Diversity and Inclusion Councils
In 2020, we established regional diversity and inclusion 
councils in North America, Latin America, Europe, the Middle 
East and Africa (EMEA), North Asia, and South Asia. Because 
diversity is defined differently in different places, each council 
develops initiatives relevant to their respective regions. We 
also established regional diversity and inclusion executive 
councils in some regions to enable direct collaboration with 
our business leaders, integrate diversity and inclusion with our 
business strategies, and accelerate D&I initiatives. Our regional 
councils consist of regional leaders and leaders of our 
employee resource groups (ERGs). CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion 
Proxy Statement 
ESG Download 
2030 Targets Avery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report28Goals
Our initial diversity and inclusion efforts focused on gender 
diversity, with a goal to achieve 40% female representation  
in manager and above roles by 2025. In 2020, we began to 
broaden our D&I focus by increasing our efforts addressing 
diversity in race and ethnicity. With 22% of our U.S. workforce 
self-identifying as racial or ethnically diverse, we have made it 
a priority to increase that number so that our U.S. operations 
better reflect the racial and ethnic makeup of the nation. At 
least annually, our Board of Directors reviews progress towards 
our sustainability goals which includes  our goals for diversity 
and inclusion. The Board evaluates progress towards meeting 
our 2025 sustainability goals when evaluating our Chief 
Executive Officer’s compensation. A portion of our CEO’s  
2020 performance evaluation is dependent on our progress 
toward achieving our 2025 sustainability goals, including 
further increasing leadership diversity. 
Employee Voices Inform D&I Strategy
In 2021, Avery Dennison engaged an outside consultant to 
work with us on developing a richer understanding of our 
workforce diversity and inclusion needs and opportunities, 
and supporting the design and build of a comprehensive D&I 
strategy for our global company. The work, led by our director 
of diversity and inclusion, is steeped in the employee voice, 
from an inclusion assessment survey to listening sessions and 
focus groups. Findings from this work will shape our diversity 
and inclusion strategy and actions. Our goal is to ground our 
D&I efforts in our employee experience, basing our priorities  
in part on what employees tell us are the most critical needs. 
Inclusion Index
Avery Dennison employees complete an annual engagement 
survey that includes three questions regarding inclusion. We 
record and track the percentage of employees who respond 
favorably to each of these three questions. In 2018, 75% of 
employees responded favorably. By 2020, that number had 
increased to 81%. While we are proud of this improvement,  
we are taking a deeper look at our data to better understand 
employee perspectives across various demographics. We aim  
to use these findings to further improve our culture of inclusion.
Talent Acquisition
In the United States, we are updating our recruitment and talent 
attraction processes with the aim of further diversifying our 
workforce. We established a partnership with the INROADS 
internship program to provide opportunities throughout  
our organization for young people of diverse backgrounds.  
Through the program, we will place ten students into paid 
summer internships, where students will learn skills and  
make connections that could make them possible candidates  
for employment with our company. We are also building 
relationships with Historically Black Colleges and Universities 
(HBCUs) to recruit talent from their student bodies. Increasing Transparency, Inside and Out
In 2021 we made our Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) 
statistics—which the U.S. Equal Opportunity Commission 
collects to ensure compliance with federal anti-discrimination 
laws—publicly available in our most recent ESG Download .  
We have also made significant advancements in our system  
of workforce analytics, so that we can  better understand  
our demographics and human capital management. 
Reviewing Pay Equity
In 2018 and 2019, we conducted an analysis of our core pay 
processes with the help of a third-party, with the aim of 
ensuring pay equity among employees in comparable 
positions. We began by looking at compensation for our more 
than 500 employees at the director level and above. In 2019,  
we analyzed all global professionals in our company, about 
9,000 employees. Based on our analysis, we made adjustments 
to pay practices where needed and found overall that our pay 
practices are equitable. We are committed to conducting 
similar reviews on a regular basis. In 2020, we performed an 
analysis internally and adjusted pay equity as necessary 
based on our findings. 
Expanding Our ERGs
In 2019, we expanded our support of  employee resource  
groups (ERGs) globally, which bring together employees  
with shared interests, characteristics, or experiences and  
a common desire to make Avery Dennison a more open and 
inclusive workplace. Participation in these groups is not  
limited to individuals in these categories, but rather is open  
to all employees interested in learning about the experiences 
and challenges of their colleagues. ERGs also provide team 
members with peer support and career-development resources. 
Currently, our ERGs include 20 groups that drive inclusion, 
create  community, and promote advancement for women, 
employees of color, LGBTQ+ employees, veterans and others. 
Each ERG has an executive sponsor who helps remove barriers 
and provides resources for the group, while also ensuring that 
its initiatives align with business strategies and community-
relations objectives. 
Increasing Understanding Through Training
We offer formal training and learning opportunities which help 
create awareness of, and appreciation for, the differences 
among our employees. These include sessions on cultural 
awareness, workstyle appreciation, and conflict resolution. 
Training is available to both individuals and teams through 
either facilitator-led sessions or self-paced online learning, 
and can be tailored to specific regional needs. The courses are 
available to all of our current employees; soon, they will be a 
formal part of the orientation we provide to new employees.Avery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report29Mentoring 
Many of our regional teams offer mentoring programs for Avery 
Dennison employees from underrepresented populations. 
Most of our efforts are currently at the local level and we are 
working to scale the most successful programs so that we can 
offer them enterprise-wide.
Diversit and Inclusion - EEO-1 2020
Percentage of racially or ethnically diverse Executive/Sr. Level Officials 19%
Percentage of racially or ethnically diverse First/Mid-Level Officials 20%
Percentage of racially or ethnically diverse Professionals 24%
Percentage of racially or ethnically diverse Technicians 15%
Percentage of racially or ethnically diverse Sales Workers 14%
Percentage of racially or ethnically diverse Administrative Support 18%
Percentage of racially or ethnically diverse Craft Workers 14%
Percentage of racially or ethnically diverse Operatives 24%
2018 2018 2020
Total percentage of women in the workforce 37% 38% 38%
Total percentage of female executives 21% 28% 25%
Total percentage of women in manager level and above roles 33% 34% 34%Equal Employment Opportunity Data
Below are the statistics we supply annually to the  
U.S. government to demonstrate our compliance with  
anti-discrimination laws. We made the decision to share  
these publicly for the first time in 2021 as part of our 
commitment to increased transparency. 
Avery Dennison Foundation
World Memon Organization
The Avery Dennison Foundation made a $7 ,500 grant to support the World Memon Organization’s Pakistan Chapter, a vocational and 
training institute for low income youth. Y oung women receive training in sewing and embroidery at the commercial and domestic 
level to aide them in earning additional income.
• 100% of Core Film and Paper Product Categories will contain recycled or renewable content. All of our regions will have labels 
that enable circularity of plastics.
• Continued investment and industry collaboration to provide the industry with recycling outlets globally.
• Expand the adoption of Intelligent Labeling to enable our industries to communicate data, reducing costs and waste, and 
creating smarter recycling processes.Avery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report30Employee Safety and Health
The health and safety of our employees is paramount to the 
ongoing success of our business. Our vision is to maintain our 
world-class safety culture and performance by safeguarding 
employees, the environment and the communities in which we 
operate. We aim to accomplish this through hazard recognition, 
safe work practices and compliance with environment, health 
and safety laws and regulations.
Our commitment to safety is demonstrated by our  
Recordable Incident Rate (RIR) of 0.23, which is well  
below the Occupational Safety and Health Administration 
manufacturing RIR of 3.5. Nothing is more important and 
valued than our team members and their commitment to  
the idea that “Zero is Achievable,” believing that injuries  
are preventable, and that returning home safely to friends, 
family and loved ones is an expectation each and every day.  
We are pleased that, in 2020, 80% of our facilities worked 
without a recordable injury. Our safety achievements are  
due to our robust employee engagement efforts as each 
business unit strives to discover solutions that best suit  
their work requirements. 
Governance
Our Vice President of Environment, Health and Safety is 
responsible for our management of employee health and 
safety. Our corporate standards for health and safety 
processes are implemented at every Avery Dennison site 
globally and consider the unique hazards, regulations and 
environment at each site. Periodically, the Board of Directors 
and/or its Talent and Compensation Committee receive 
reports on the health and safety performance of our company. 
Related Information
Our Global EHS Standards and Policies
Our global EHS standards and policies establish a framework 
of consistent expectations that teams at all Avery Dennison 
facilities work towards when they develop site-level goals, 
objectives and safe work practices. Examples include our 
standards and policies for emergency response, which guide 
preparedness and communication plans for responding  
to EHS-related emergencies that could impact employees,  
the environment, or the community; for chemical handling, 
which provide guidance and protocols for conducting risk 
assessments and implementing process controls to minimize 
or eliminate exposure; and machine safeguarding, for 
protecting team members from exposure to potential hazards 
such as moving equipment, parts, and noise. Setting clear 
standards and policies helps us identify engineering controls, 
standard operating procedures (SOPs) and best practices 
that can be leveraged across business units and regions. 
Our global health and safety programs, including “Stay in the 
Zone,” help build our culture of health and safety throughout 
our workforce. Our response to Covid-19 
Alignment of 2025 Sustainability Goals to the SDGs 
2030 Targets   
ESG Download Avery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report31Helping Employees “Stay in the Zone™”
We support employee safety awareness and well-being 
through our Stay in the Zone global safety engagement 
program. Stay in the Zone is designed to: 
• Amplify daily awareness of positive safety behaviors 
• Strengthen team safety by training employees to “Stop, 
think, and say something” when they recognize an unsafe 
work behavior being exhibited with themselves, their 
workplace, or others. 
Stay in the Zone works by having “four checks for safety” 
which direct employees whenever they begin to work to check 
themselves, their tools and equipment, their work area, and 
their peers. Employees are in the “safety zone” when they 
continue to complete these four checks. Our Stay in the Zone 
program provides stop work authority to all Avery Dennison 
employees and all workers under the supervision of an Avery 
Dennison manager, such as contractors, whenever they have  
a safety issue. We encourage speaking up through Safety 
Conversations, quarterly, manager-led discussions about  
key safety concepts aligned with the four checks for safety. 
Safety Conversation content includes leader guides,  
talking points, tip sheets and presentation slides, as well as 
environmental graphics that promote awareness and adoption 
of the “four checks.”  
Encouraging Employee Engagement
At all Avery Dennison locations, team members have the 
opportunity to participate on safety teams or committees  
that support the implementation of corporate EHS standards, 
address regional and business-unit safety matters, and work 
proactively to enhance our safety processes. Key activities 
include hazard recognition and analysis, injury or near-miss 
root cause investigations, safety “gembas” (focused  
walk-arounds) and evaluating and resolving employee  
safety concerns.
At the individual level, we reinforce safe work behaviors with 
our team members, reminding them of practices to protect 
themselves and their peers. These include:
• Being ready and aware, mentally and physically
• Respecting policies for the use and maintenance  
of personal protective equipment and safety  
control devices;
• Following protocols for such high-risk tasks as  
lockout/tagout, working in confined spaces, and  
working at heights;
• Adhering to machine safeguarding and operational 
controls around moving equipment and machinery; and
• Timely reporting of safety, health or  
environmental issues.Safety Training
Our training processes are specific to the business unit and 
site location, in order to address the health and safety risks 
posed by the activities performed at each site. This ensures 
everyone who works at an Avery Dennison location has the 
tools they need to safely perform their work and understands 
their unique risk factors. In order to maintain a consistent 
approach despite the differences between each site, we 
require that the training process developed at the site level 
aligns with our corporate standards and begins in the 
onboarding stage. 
EHS Compliance
We comply with all applicable environmental, health and 
safety regulations and will go beyond the legal requirements, 
whenever it is prudent, in our judgment, to do so. Our sites  
have implemented EHS Compliance Calendars as a means to 
identify and manage specific actions to meet our compliance 
obligations. These calendars are routinely reviewed and 
monitored by the plant leadership teams as they are the 
owners of the process.
Additionally, we conduct environmental, health and safety 
(EHS) compliance audits at our manufacturing sites worldwide 
to further ensure we’re complying with our standards and  
with the laws and regulations of the countries where we do 
business. These audits are conducted by a team of our own 
employees (corporate and regional EHS professionals), 
assisted by third-party consultants who provide an outside 
perspective, as well as knowledge of local regulations, 
languages, and cultures. Between 2017 and 2020 we conducted 
audits at 52 of our 100-plus facilities. The results of the audits 
are tracked by our corporate EHS team and used by sites to 
facilitate continuous improvement in workplace safety and 
environmental protection.
EHS Data Management System (ASPIRE)
ASPIRE is the enterprise system we use to store and manage 
EHS data from all of our sites globally. Information such as  
EHS incidents (injuries, spills, fires, etc.), EHS Compliance 
Audits, and Sustainability Metrics (GHG, RIR, waste, recycle, 
etc.) are all maintained in a controlled and monitored network 
environment. As a result, we are able to track actions, analyze 
trends and use the data to adjust strategies to enhance 
continuous improvement in our EHS and Sustainability 
programs. Additionally, this past year, we implemented the 
chemical management module to more efficiently manage 
chemical inventories, Safety Data Sheets (SDSs) and 
restricted substance lists (RSLs) as a part of our corporate 
sustainability initiatives, and we will continue to expand 
capabilities where opportunities exist. Avery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report32Process Safety Management Committee
The Process Safety Management Committee is responsible for 
establishing goals, strategies, and measurements to minimize 
and eliminate risks associated with our solvent operations. The 
committee spans across our 16 solvent manufacturing sites 
globally and includes technical experts from operations, 
corporate engineering, process engineering, and EHS.  
RBIS
Our RBIS team implemented a standardized Safety By Technology platform to enhance machine safeguarding across its 
manufacturing lines. Teams of operations and EHS leaders that understand how the equipment operates conduct safety blitzes  
to identify potential safety exposures and develop control measures to eliminate or minimize risk. These solutions are then shared 
as best practices so controls can be implemented on all similar equipment and machinery, protecting employees from injury.
LGM/IHM
LGM/IHM utilizes region-specific safety processes in Europe, North America, Latin America and Asia Pacific that differ in their 
approach but include fundamental elements like analysis of injury trends, hazard recognition, risk assessments, behavioral safety 
and change management. These elements are driven by region specific EHS Linkage Teams that are chaired by the regional EHS 
leader and include participation and engagement from site level EHS leaders. 
In 2019, we experienced our first employee fatality in over 20 years. At our facility in Malaysia, an employee died while operating a 
machine. We provided financial support for the employee’s family as well as grief-counseling services for employees at the site. Our 
people are at the heart of our business, and our top priority is to ensure that every employee arrives home healthy and safe each 
day. We conducted a full investigation of the incident and a complete review of our safety procedures, and we reinforced our safety 
protocols to our global workforce.
Treating health and well-being as a Mission: Possible
Through a program called Mission: Possible, we held health and well-being challenges, encouraging teams of U.S.-based employees 
to compete in weight loss, daily physical activity, stress reduction and more. Dozens of designated “health ambassadors” 
throughout the company encouraged participants on their goals and progress, invited them to exercise with others and helped  
them fine-tune their workouts. Mission: Possible builds camaraderie and supports employees in being healthy, which increases 
employee engagement. They have made a number of contributions to our safety 
efforts, including by developing protocols for the solvent  
sites. These protocols have brought about 19 solvent-related 
guidance specifications, a solvent safety technology 
collaboration website for sharing best practices, a  
web-based process safety management “university”  
and a self-verification and compliance audit process. 
2018 2019 2020
Safety and Health Performance 
Work-related injuries
Total recordable incident rate (TRIR) 0.26 0.24 0.21
Lost time injury rate (LTIR) 0.17 0.12 0.11
Fatalities (employees and contractors) 0 1 0Avery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report33Charitable Giving
Avery Dennison’s strong philanthropic ethos started with  
our founder Stan Avery more than eight decades ago, and 
continues to live within our company through financial  
support and employee volunteerism. 
The Avery Dennison Foundation serves as our primary 
charitable vehicle to support non-profit, non-governmental 
organizations in markets where our employees live and work 
across the world. We concentrate our philanthropic efforts  
in three important areas – education, sustainability, and 
women’s empowerment. We demonstrate our commitment  
to these three focus areas through numerous grants and 
employee volunteerism.
Governance
With Board oversight from the Governance Committee, The 
Avery Dennison Foundation’s Board of Trustees is responsible 
for guiding our funding priorities and decisions aligned with the 
Foundation’s mission and objectives. The Board of Trustees is 
composed of current and former Avery Dennison employees 
from a cross-section of the company’s business units and 
global locations. When deciding on funding priorities and 
strategic programs, the trustees take in consideration 
employee feedback. The Foundation holds informal working 
discussions with employees to better understand community 
needs and areas of potential impact, in addition to engaging 
local employees on specific initiatives. Incorporating our 
employees’ voices into the Foundation’s initiatives ensures  
we fund in a way that truly represents Avery Dennison. 
Related Information
Supporting Employees and Communities  
in Response to COVID-19
In 2020, the Foundation shifted its resources and funds to help 
our communities respond to COVID-19. In a joint effort with 
our company, the Foundation provided nearly $3 million in 
grants to support the efforts of more than 100 nonprofit 
organizations actively assisting communities respond to the 
pandemic in over 30 countries, many of which were identified 
by our employees. These contributions helped serve basic 
human needs such as food, shelter, education and childcare. Avery Dennison Foundation 
2021 CSR Report 
2021 Proxy Statement 
2020 Integrated Report 
ESG Download Avery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report34The Foundation also launched an employee assistance fund to 
support our employees around the world who were furloughed, 
laid off, suspended or terminated. This fund is designed to help 
provide for basic needs such as housing and utilities, medical 
care, dependent care, and other expenses impacted by the 
pandemic. Support was also made available to families of our 
employees who had died of COVID-19. A number of employee 
donations supplemented the Foundation funds earmarked  
for this effort. The fund is administered by Global Impact, an 
independent third party. 
Programs and Performance
In late 2020, Avery Dennison Corporation made a  
$10 million contribution to the Foundation to ensure it is able 
to increase the scope and pace of its support for communities  
in which Avery Dennison has operations. Through grants and 
volunteerism we are able to make significant impacts on our 
communities while also providing opportunities for employees 
to participate in being a Force for Good.
Grantmaking
Grantmaking is the primary avenue the Foundation uses to 
contribute to communities, aided by our employees worldwide 
who help identify deserving organizations. In 2020, The Avery 
Dennison Foundation donated $3.5 million to various 
organizations in addition to its support related to COVID-19. 
We also encourage employees to identify local organizations 
for grants through our Granting Wishes program. In 2020, 
Granting Wishes continued to support 48 grantees that 
remained in good standing, had the capacity to receive funds 
quickly, and had a stated COVID-19 response. These grants 
served communities in nearly 30 countries. Our business units 
also engage employees in campaigns where they choose a 
cause that they are passionate about to receive funding.  
We take pride in knowing that our dollars benefit our 
communities, whether it be the people or the planet.  
To ensure this effort, we ask that our grantees complete a 
progress report and final report where we can see the progress 
of the objectives agreed upon.. We continually search for 
innovative ways to relay our metrics to our stakeholders to 
best display our efforts.
In 2021, the Foundation plans to review its grantmaking areas 
of focus to ensure continued alignment with our company’s 
reframed strategies and advance our broader commitment  
to D+I, while continuing to support the communities in which 
we operate.
Employee Volunteerism
Our employees enthusiastically support their local 
communities through giving and volunteerism, which is 
demonstrated by our over 150 global employee teams that 
coordinate volunteer activities. When an organization applies 
for funds they are asked “How can Avery Dennison employees 
volunteer?” because we want to support opportunities where 
employees can directly give back to their communities. To track the impact our employees have, employees can log 
event summaries, upload photos and note who participated 
and for how long in a data tracking platform. This new feature 
will be formally launched in 2021 on our new intranet site where 
we can see individual and total volunteer hours and begin 
awarding individual employees, sites, and regions for their 
commitment to giving back to their communities. 
Focus Areas
We determined the Foundation’s funding priorities of 
education, sustainability and women’s empowerment with 
employee input. For example, employees told us women’s 
empowerment was not just important and a strategic priority 
in the workplace but also in their communities.
Education
Grantmaking in education provides funding for educational 
improvements to elementary, secondary, post-secondary  
and/or vocational schools; and focuses on STEM (science, 
technology, engineering and mathematics) or graphic and 
visual arts educational efforts. These grants direct services  
to typically underserved populations due to gender, 
socioeconomic status, or geography.
InvEnt Spirit of Invention
The goal of the Avery Dennison InvEnt Scholarship Program is 
to recognize and reward invention, innovation and excellence 
at selected higher education institutions in India. InvEnt helps 
students meet their financial needs during their university 
attendance, and also offers training opportunities, leadership 
development and mentorship with Avery Dennison offices.  
The program aims to foster the development of talent and 
human resources, nurture creativity and inspire young people 
to engage in the spirit of invention.
U.S. Scholars Program
The U.S. Scholars Program recognizes the academic 
achievements and potential of the sons and daughters  
of company employees and helps them obtain a college 
education. Since its inception in 1977 , the program has 
supported more than 650 students across the United  
States in their pursuit of higher education. This scholarship 
program is administered by Scholarship America . Sending a 
child off to college is one of the great moments of a parent’s  
life, and the Avery Dennison Foundation is proud to support 
such moments.
Sustainability
Grantmaking in sustainability provides direct support  
for projects that conserve the natural environment and 
contribute to the social, environmental and economic  
well-being of communities.Avery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report35WRAP
WRAP is a global NGO working with partners in over 25 
countries. WRAP’s mission is to accelerate the move to a 
sustainable, resource-efficient economy by re-using and 
recycling products and waste reduction. The Avery Dennison 
Foundation made a $200,000 grant to WRAP to support public 
and private partnerships to reduce food waste in Indonesia  
by 5% over the next few years. 
The Ocean Cleanup
Plastic pollution is one of the biggest threats facing our global 
environment, from poisoning and injuring marine life to littering 
our landscapes and clogging landfills. The Avery Dennison 
Foundation made a $200,000 grant to The Ocean Cleanup —  
a nonprofit using innovative technologies to remove plastic 
pollution from the world’s oceans. Our support of The Ocean 
Cleanup reflects our belief that innovation and sustainability 
go hand-in-hand.
Women’s Empowerment
Grantmaking in women’s empowerment provides support  
for projects that address gender equality, equity and 
opportunities in Avery Dennison communities.
Opportunity Trust Foundation
Economic hardship is just one area that prevents many  
girls from getting a good education. The Avery Dennison 
Foundation made a $50,000 grant to support the Avasar 
Scholarship Program which provides education, training,  
and mentorship to young women in Bangalore, India. The 
scholarships help ensure that girls stay in school by paying 
school fees and expenses — including supplies, clothing, 
transportation, and meals — that their families might not 
otherwise be able to afford.World Memon Organization
The Avery Dennison Foundation made a $7 ,500 grant to support 
the World Memon Organization’s Pakistan Chapter, a vocational 
and training institute for low income youth. Y oung women 
receive training in sewing and embroidery at the commercial 
and domestic level to help them earn additional income.
Smile Foundation 
The mission of the Smile Foundation is to empower 
underprivileged children, youth and women through  
relevant education, innovative healthcare and market focused 
livelihood programs to promote Civic Driven Change. The Avery 
Dennison Foundation made a $124,000 donation to empower 
women in Delhi with reproductive health education and 
women’s entrepreneurship development. 
World Vision Honduras 
World Vision Honduras works to address education,  
health, economic development, emergency response and 
disaster prevention across Honduras. The Avery Dennison 
Foundation made a $200,000 contribution to the Personal 
Advancement and Career Advancement (P .A.C.E.) initiative. 
The contribution will provide P .A.C.E. to 1,100 women and 
support and strengthen 30 entrepreneurship initiatives and 
women’s clubs in the community.Avery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report362030 Sustainability  
Goals and Metrics
Avery Dennison is committed to reaching our sustainability goals by the year 2030. Our 2030 sustainability goals 
complement and live alongside our 2025 sustainability goals. Our 2030 sustainability goals were developed based on 
careful analysis of what is most important for our business and stakeholders, covering the areas where we can, and 
should, make the greatest difference. Striving to meet our new goals will be the greatest test yet of our capacity to 
innovate and an invaluable opportunity to position our business for lasting success.
Our 2030 sustainability goals align with seven of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). A 
framework adopted by 193 countries, the SDGs have become a common standard for governments, the private 
sector and civil society to track progress toward sustainability.
Deliver innovations that advance  
the circular economy
Satisfy the recycling, composting or reuse requirements of all single-use consumer 
packaging and apparel with our products and solutions.
RBIS
• 100% of products within our Core Product Categories will meet our third-party 
verified Sustainable Advantage Standard.
LGM
• 100% of Core Film and Paper Product Categories will contain recycled or 
renewable content. All of our regions will have labels that enable circularity  
of plastics.
• Continued investment and industry collaboration to provide the industry with 
recycling outlets globally.
• Expand the adoption of Intelligent Labeling to enable our industries to 
communicate data, reducing costs and waste, and creating smarter  
recycling processes.Avery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report37Reduce our environmental impact  
in our operations and supply chain
• Reduce  our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 70% from our 2015 baseline and 
work with our supply chain to reduce our 2018 baseline Scope 3 GHG emissions 
by 30% - with an ambition of net zero by 2050.
• Source  100% of paper fiber from certified sources focused on a deforestation-
free future.
• Divert 95% of our waste away from landfills, with a minimum of 80% of our waste 
recycled and the remainder either reused, composted, or sent to energy recovery
• Deliver a 15% increase in water efficiency at our sites that are located in high or 
extremely high risk countries as identified in the WRI Aqueduct Tool.
• Engage  80% of our spend of LGM’s direct suppliers on their environmental and 
social policies including water, human rights, fair business, forestry, etc.
Make a positive impact by enhancing the  
livelihoods of our employees and communities
Foster an engaged team and an inclusive workplace.
• Inclusion Index: 85%
• Employee Engagement: 82%
• Females in manager level or above positions: 40%
• Safety: 0.2 RIR
Drive employee participation in ADF grants and foster the well-being 
of the communities in which we and our supply chain operate.
• 85% of countries in which we operate receive ADF grants
• 50% of all ADF grants incorporate volunteerism
Avery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report38Progress toward our 2025 sustainability goals
Sustainability is one of our core values and has long been an integral part of the way we do business. Our aim is to 
improve the sustainability of our products and processes, build a more diverse workforce and an inclusive culture, 
maintain a culture of health and safety, and support our communities to create value for all our stakeholders. Key to 
our progress has been integrating sustainability into our business strategies and engaging employees at all levels.
In our 2020 integrated sustainability and annual report, we present highlights of our achievements against our 2025 
sustainability goals and announce our more ambitious 2030 sustainability goals.
In the first five years of the 10-year horizon for our 2025 sustainability goals, we have made meaningful progress, as 
shown in the scorecard shown below.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
2025 Target
• Achieve at least 3% absolute reduction year-over-year and at least 26% overall 
reduction by 2025
2015 Baseline
—
2020 Progress
• Reduced absolute GHG emissions by ~19% in 12 months through Q3 2020 
compared to same period in prior year, primarily due to increased purchase of 
renewable energy credits; GHG emissions fell ~45% compared to baseline year
Paper
2025 Target
• Source 100% certified paper, of which at least 70% is Forest Stewardship 
Council®-certified
2015 Baseline
• 45% FSC-certified
2020 Progress
• Of total volume of paper procured in 2020, ~92% was certified, with ~83% of 
facestocks Forest Stewardship Council®-certified
Avery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report39Films
2025 Target
• Ensure that 70% of films we buy conform to, or enable end products to conform 
to, our environmental and social guiding principles
2015 Baseline
—
2020 Progress
• ~97% of 2020 film volume conformed to LGM’s restricted substance list
Chemicals
2025 Target
• Ensure that 70% of chemicals we buy conform to, or enable end products to 
conform to, our environmental and social guiding principles
2015 Baseline
—
2020 Progress
• ~96% of 2020 chemical volume conformed to LGM’s restricted  
substance list
Waste
2025 Target
• Be 95% landfill-free, with at least 75% of our waste reused, repurposed or 
recycled
• Eliminate 70% of the matrix and liner waste from our value chain
2015 Baseline
• 90% landfilll-free; 55% recycled
2020 Progress
• Diverted ~94% of solid waste from landfills and recycled ~67% of waste as of 
year-end 2020
Avery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report40Products and Solutions
2025 Target
• Through innovation, deliver above-average growth in sales from sustainability-
driven products and services
• Ensure that 70% of our products and solutions conform to, or enable end 
products to conform to, our environmental and social guiding principles
2015 Baseline
—
2020 Progress
• ~44% and ~55% of LGM and RBIS sales, respectively, in 2020 came from 
sustainability driven products that are responsibly sourced, enable 
recyclability, contain recycled content, or use less material without 
compromising performance
People
2025 Target
• Continue to cultivate diverse (40%+ female at level of manager and above), 
engaged, safe (recordable incident rate of <0.25), productive and healthy 
workforce
• Continue to invest in our employees and the communities in which they live  
and work
2015 Baseline
• 32% women in manager level and above; 0.31 Recordable Incident Rate (RIR); 
80% engagement
2020 Progress
• Increased female representation at level of manager and above by ~7% from 
baseline year; level was 34% at year-end 2020
• Continued world-class safety record, with recordable incident rate of 0.21 in 
2020, far surpassing manufacturing industry average of 3.0 in 2019 (most 
recently available industry average)
Avery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report41Transparency
2025 Target
• Commit to goals publicly and be transparent in reporting progress
2015 Baseline
N/A
2020 Progress
• Enhanced transparency by providing greater ESG disclosures in 2019 integrated 
sustainability and annual report published in March 2020, committing to 
publishing progress annually; first ESG Download published in August 2020; 
and 2020 integrated sustainability and annual report and ESG Download, both 
published in March 2021
Avery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report42Sustainability in Action
Advancing the Reuse of Glass  
Containers: Premium Wash-Off  
Labeling for a Premium Water Brand
The Challenge 
Zurich-based water brand Lokales Wasser needed a packaging 
solution that better reflected its values. Improved sustainability 
was crucial, and the bottle also had to convey a sense of pure, 
premium contents.As a locally sourced and distributed product, 
Lokales Wasser was already meeting several criteria for 
sustainability. But a key ingredient was missing. Despite Zurich’s 
well-established system for collecting returnable bottles from 
hotels and restaurants, Lokales Wasser was still being sold in 
single-use bottles.
Consulting on a Solution
For a returnable bottle to function in the returns system, it had 
to withstand being rinsed and reused up to 30 times. Labeling 
technology was a critical issue. The label could not 
compromise re-use, and it had to deliver maximum visual 
appeal for Lokales Wasser’s premium product. Specifically,  
the company wanted a clear, minimalist, “no label” look, which requires adhesive that can repeatedly undergo washing and 
reuse without discoloring.Lokales Wasser’s label converter, 
VollherbstDruck GmbH, approached us in search of the right 
materials. We recommended our wash-off PET19/PP50 CLEAR 
W7600-PET23 applied to a glass bottle.
Clear Results
VollherbstDruck CPO Stefan Vollherbst described the outcome: 
“This is a material with very high clarity, and that clarity is retained 
after lengthy immersion in water or in humid, chiller-cabinet 
conditions. Adhesive and facestock performance and printability 
were great, and we were able to achieve a bottle design that 
looked as if it had used direct print, with an almost invisible label 
material.” Urs Grütter, Lokales Wasser’s CEO, also was delighted 
with the look and the reusability of our solution: “We have a 
bottle that properly reflects the quality of our water and one that 
gives our customers in restaurants and hotels the image they 
need. The sustainability gains we have made are tremendous.  
This is a solution that gives us everything we were looking for.”Avery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report43
Eliminating Solvents while  
Maintaining Performance
Our UV Curable Acrylic Warm Melt adhesive technology is a new adhesive platform that enables the deployment of  
high-performance acrylic polymer technology across a broad range of pressure-sensitive applications. UV Curable Acrylic 
Warm Melt is an alternative to typical water- or solvent-based adhesives, which contain about 50% water by weight, or organic 
solvent that must be removed during the coating and drying processes. Our new adhesive platform contains no water or 
solvent, eliminating the need for the energy-intensive drying and thermal oxidation processes. Since it cures with lamps 
instead of ovens, the coating reduces the total energy required to produce a coated product by more than half, dramatically 
reducing related greenhouse gas emissions. The absence of solvents means near-zero emissions of volatile organic compounds 
(VOCs) and little to no residual VOCs in the final product. This makes it a preferable solution for automotive, food, and medical 
applications. Because UV Curable Acrylic Warm melt is composed of 100% solids, it lowers freight impact by about 60% 
compared to water- or solvent-based adhesives. With these significant processing and environmental advantages, adhesives 
based on the UV Curable Acrylic Warm Melt platform have the potential to significantly reduce consumption of both solvents 
and energy.Avery Dennison 2021 Sustainability Report44
Reducing Waste in the Food Industry  
and Elsewhere with RFID
The United Nations’ August 2019 report on climate change and land noted that at least a quarter of all food worldwide is wasted. 
Our RFID-based intelligent label solutions are designed to provide greater visibility into the food supply chain, helping producers, 
transporters, and retailers manage food inventories more efficiently. We believe that, over time, the data collected through 
RFID-enabled supply chains will enable producers to optimize the food supply for demonstrated demand. Meanwhile, grocers 
can already go a long way toward eliminating waste by using RFID-tagged products or pallets to get a more accurate picture of 
their inventories, monitor food temperatures, and better manage expiry to keep food from spoiling. We believe RFID can help 
grocers reduce waste by as much as 20%, and we’re conducting pilot projects to confirm our projections. As part of an effort by 
the Japanese government to make retailers more competitive by adopting the latest-generation technology, we’re supplying RFID 
tags to enable Japan’s 58,000 convenience stores better manage inventories, reduce waste, and automate customer service. Our 
innovations—including tags that are readable on packages containing metal and liquid, and that can be microwaved without fire 
risk—have removed barriers to RFID adoption in Japanese grocery stores and throughout the global grocery and food service 
industries. Our intelligent labels are helping reduce waste in other industries as well. In apparel and beauty, RFID is reducing 
overproduction by letting retailers see “hidden” stock that conventional inventory management systems might miss. And in 
consumer goods, our intelligent labels are telling product owners how to best recycle items when they are through using them.Contact Us 
averydennison.com/contactus
Email 
info@averydennison.com
Visit averydennison.com and follow us on 
social media to learn more about how we  
are creating superior long-term, sustainable  
value for our customers, employees and 
stockholders and improving the  
communities in which we operate.
Company Websites 
averydennison.com
automotive.averydennison.com  
fastener.averydennison.com 
graphics.averydennison.com
inks.averydennison.com
label.averydennison.com
medical.averydennison.com 
performancepolymers.averydennison.com 
printers.averydennison.com 
rbis.averydennison.com
reflectives.averydennison.com
rfid.averydennison.com
sustainability.averydennison.com 
tapes.averydennison.com
Press and Social Media 
averydennison.com/newsroomInvestor Information 
Available at: 
investors.averydennison.com  
Send inquiries via email to: 
investorcom@averydennison.com
Career Opportunities 
Learn how you can make your mark  
at Avery Dennison. 
Visit averydennison.com/careers