Making the World a Healthier Place 
OUR 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT2
OUR VISION
We are committed to making the world a healthier place.
Our two sustainability objectives remain the same as we look to  
the future:
• Providing innovative solutions for the health and nutritional  
needs of the world 
• Operating with excellence as strong stewards of our employees, 
customers, shareholders, and communities (our stakeholders) 
Our vision is clear – to make the world a healthier place. Every day, Balchem is delivering trusted solutions that enhance health and nutrition through science. One of our proud accomplishments is that we were able to impact 1.4 billion people around the world this year through human nutrition products and through people being fed by animals supplemented with our vital nutrients.
Our Sustainability Framework focuses on the most critical Environ -
mental, Social, and Governance (ESG) topics relevant to our busi -
ness and stakeholders. This report highlights our efforts within 
three pillars: People, Planet, and Profit. We welcome you to join our sustainability journey as we help make the world a healthier place.
Our Sustainability Framework
employees, customers, shareholders, & communitiesOperate with excellence as strong stewards of our Provide innovative solutions for the health &nutritional needs of the worldCOMPANY
Making  
the World  
a Healthier  
PlacePEOPLE
PLANET PROFIT
CULTURE
1.4 Billion People Reached in 2020
The total number of people impacted is calculated by the annual consumption of protein and 
the daily recommended doses of minerals, essential nutrients, and vitamins.TABLE OF 
CONTENTS
1MESSAGE FROM OUR 
CHAIRMAN AND CEO
2ABOUT  
OUR REPORT
3MEASURING  OUR PROGRESS
4 PEOPLE
5
6PLANET
PROFIT
7 APPENDIX
34
1
MESSAGE FROM OUR 
CHAIRMAN AND CEO5
MESSAGE FROM OUR CHAIRMAN AND CEO
Sustainability is at the heart of our 
company’s vision to make the world  
a healthier place.
TO OUR EMPLOYEES, CUSTOMERS, SHAREHOLDERS, AND COMMUNITIES:
For over 50 years, Balchem has developed  
innovative solutions for the nutritional needs of the world. We do this while operating our facilities and businesses to the expectations of our employees, customers, shareholders, and communities. This was especially true in 2020, as the world was challenged with the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. Managing our operations through this pandemic contin -
ues to be a key focus for our company and a true test of our ability to operate in a dynamic environment. I am extraordinarily proud of how Balchem has responded to this challenge and how we have proven our resilience and ability to execute not only in good times, but also in challenging times like we have today.
As a company, we had a very strong year  
strategically, financially, and relative to pro -
gressing our sustainability objectives. We 
remain focused on our two main objec -
tives: providing innovative solutions for the health and nutritional needs of the world and operating with excellence as strong stewards of our stakeholders. Our  
areas of priority are included in this report and remain focused on our three sustain-  
ability pillars: People, Planet, and Profit.
In 2020, Balchem joined the United Nations 
Global Compact, confirming our support of their Ten Principles on human rights,  
labor, environment, and anti-corruption. Our  
commitment to the United Nations Glob -
al Compact Principles is another step in our continuous sustainability journey and achieving our vision of making the world a  healthier place. As a company, we are aligning  
our strategy with the Ten Principles and tak -
ing actions to increase our support of the United Nations’ (UN) 17 Sustainable Devel -
opment Goals (SDG’s), as you will see men -
tion of throughout the report. To support the effort in protecting our planet, we have also  
developed goals  for both emissions and water  
usage reduction by 2030, as further detailed in this report.Our investments in new product develop-  
ment, external studies, and new science  
are making a difference for the future  
advancement of our Human, Animal,  
and Plant Nutrition businesses. In 2020,  
approximately 1.4 billion people were positively impacted in some way by  
our products. 
OUR THREE BUSINESS SEGMENTS
Human Nutrition and Health:  
Provides chelated minerals, the essential nutrient choline, vitamins, microencapsulation, and food ingredients for the supplement, beverage, dairy, and bakery markets.
Animal Nutrition and Health:  
Supplies science-based animal feed nutritional ingredients and solutions for better animal productivity and wellness.
Specialty Products:  
Promotes human health by ensuring the safe and timely supply of  
critical sterilization technology to the medical and food industries as well  
as supplies chelated minerals to the micronutrient agricultural market.6
MESSAGE FROM OUR CHAIRMAN AND CEO
We launched our Balchem Helping Hands 
initiative to further expand and support our 
corporate giving and employee volunteer programs in 2020. Examples of activities contained within the exciting new initiative are a corporate partnership with Vitamin Angels and our newly announced employee matching donation program. In addition, as part of the Helping Hands initiative, we have invested in technology to further encourage the growth of our employee volunteer program, a virtual platform where employees can share their time and locate opportunities to give back and volunteer in the local communities where we operate.
I am pleased with the continuous strength-
ening of our Corporate Governance Guide- lines and the progress we have made to promote diversity and inclusion. The safety, health, and security of our stakeholders are of primary concern in the operation of our facilities. We have global initiatives to reduce employee injuries with the goal of being injury free and are proud of the progress we continue to make.
These accomplishments were made while 
delivering record financial performance in 2020. Our sustainability journey is one of continuous improvement. To confirm our commitment to environmental, social, and corporate governance (ESG), we continue to actively engage our customers, shareholders, and employees for input on the key priorities for Balchem’s sustainability strategy. As you will see in this report, we have continued to make important progress in the areas most critical to making the world a healthier  
place. At our core, we are a health and nutrition company.
I am proud of the contributions of all our 
stakeholders who are dedicated to our vision, and we are thankful for your interest in Balchem and our journey to ensure the long-term sustainability of our business and our stakeholders.
Ted Harris  
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
7
2
ABOUT  
OUR REPORT8
ABOUT OUR REPORT
Balchem solves today’s challenges to shape a healthier tomorrow 
by operating responsibly and providing solutions for the health and nutritional needs of the world.
Our sustainability report highlights the progress made over the past year and demonstrates our dedication to contin -
uous improvement. A diverse group of internal and external stakeholders were engaged to identify and prioritize the top- ics addressed within the report.
Our process included:
• Convening a cross-functional executive 
steering committee with representatives from business units, finance, investor  
relations, human resources, research and development (R&D), internal audit,  
supply chain, and operations 
• Reviewing progress with management quarterly, an operating committee  
semi-annually, and our Board of  
Directors  annually
• Engaging in ongoing interviews with  
executives and functional leaders around relevant sustainability topics 
• Discussing with some of our largest  
shareholders and customers 
• Reviewing leading standards and frame -
works such as the Global Reporting Initia -
tive (GRI) , Sustainability Accounting Stan -
dards Board (SASB) , and the UN Sustainable  
Development Goals (SDGs)
This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. Unless otherwise noted, the scope of the metrics and information presented in this report is equivalent to those considered in our annual financial report and includes the operations of all subsidiaries. These metrics reflect the results of 12 months of operations ending on December 31, 2020.Priority ESG TopicsPEOPLE
PLANET PROFIT
PEOPLE
Human Nutrition  
and Health  
Animal Nutrition
Food Availability  
Food Safety and  
Health Concerns
H
uman Capital
E
nvironmental, Health, 
Safety, and Security
C
ommunity InvolvementPL ANET
Materials Sourcing  
Energy Management
W
aste Management
W
ater Management
Safety and Environmental  
Stewardship of Chemicals  
and Genetically Modified  
Organisms
PROFIT
Foundation
GovernanceRisk Management9
ABOUT OUR REPORT
PRIORITY SDG s
ZERO HUNGER
We have positively impacted over 1.4 
billion people with our health and nutrition-based products.
GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING
“At our core, we are a health and 
nutrition company.” 
— Ted Harris, Chairman and CEO
GENDER EQUALITYBalchem is committed to improving 
diversity and building an inclusive culture throughout our company.
CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION
Balchem both completed and launched 
several projects to conserve and recycle water in 2020.
AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY
We are continuously looking for ways 
to improve our energy efficiency and reduce our environmental impact.
DECENT WORK AND  ECONOMIC GROWTH
We believe that protecting the safety,  
health, and welfare of our employees  
and communities is the right thing to do.
RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION  
AND PRODUCTION
We are committed to responsible raw 
material sourcing and are continuously looking for ways to improve our energy efficiency and reduce our environ- mental impact.
CLIMATE ACTION
By 2030, Balchem commits to reduce  
our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions  and global water usage by 25%, versus our 2020 baseline.
PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS
In 2020, Balchem joined the United 
Nations Global Compact, confirming  
our support of their Ten Principles on human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption.10
ABOUT OUR REPORT
OUR 2030 ESG GOALS
EMISSIONS   
REDUCTION
Balchem commits to reduce  
our GHG emissions by
25%OPPORTUNITY EXAMPLES
Process improvements in spray  
drying by increasing feed solids
Reduce drying with product design  
(e.g., ReaShure®-XC)
Major consumer efficiency improvements 
(e.g., modernized boilers)
Use of renewable energy sources  
(e.g., Grimbergen solar project)
WATER  
CONSERVATION
Balchem commits to reduce
our global water use by
25%OPPORTUNITY EXAMPLES
Eliminate “once through” cooling water 
systems in Marano and Verona sites
Reduce water use in clean in place (CIP) 
systems with improved utilization and 
change to dry clean options
Condensate recovery systems11
3
MEASURING  
OUR PROGRESS12
MEASURING OUR PROGRESS
Making  
the World  
a Healthier 
Place
PEOPLE PLANET PROFIT
1.4 billion  – number of people  
reached per year10.8 billion  – number of animals 
reached per year28.2%  – revenue from products 
developed in the past five years
1.04 – total recordable injury  
rate (TRIR)3.75 GJ/ton – energy intensity  
(GJ of energy per ton of  
product produced) 
76,802 (CO2e metric tons)  – scope 1  
and scope 2 GHG emissions$703.6M  – total revenue
26%  – hourly employee turnover
7% – salary employee turnover12.57 (CBM)  – water intensity 
(cubic meters of water withdrawal 
per metric ton of product produced)
0.06%  – water withdrawal from  
regions with high or extremely 
high baseline water stress$174.2M  – adjusted EBITDA**
77%  males, 23%  females –  
employee diversity99%  – hazardous waste reused  
or recycled
75%  – hazardous material  
suppliers audited in the last  
3 years*$84.6M  – GAAP net earnings
$2.60  – GAAP earnings per share
75%  – R&D focused on health  
and nutrition 100%  – of palm oil sourced through 
RSPO (mass balance)37%  – raw materials from  
renewable resources138%  – free cash flow conversion 
100%  – manufacturing sites  
with local community  
engagement efforts0 – product recalls15.7%  – 5-year total shareholder  
return (TSR) vs Russell 2000 Index
Note: Scorecard metrics represent priority focus areas, but additional metrics may be disclosed to satisfy analyst needs. The number of people reached is calculated by the daily recom -
mended dose of vitamins and annual consumption of protein in 2020. *Balchem defines hazardous materials as ethylene oxide, trimethylamine, hydrochloric acid, anhydrous ammonia, 
propylene oxide, and carbon disulfide. **Adjusted EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, other expenses/income, taxes, depreciation, amortization, stock-based compensation, acquisition-related expenses, indemnification settlements, legal settlements, and the fair valuation of acquired inventory.13
4
PEOPLE14
PEOPLE
“While the evolution to a more sustainable future doesn’t  
happen in one day, we are committed to the journey, holding 
ourselves and our suppliers to higher standards.”
— Jim Hyde,  SVP-GM of Human Nutrition and Health
HUMAN NUTRITION AND HEALTH
During 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic aff-  
ected every link in the food and nutrition 
supply chain. Balchem’s Human Nutrition and Health (HNH) employees remained com -
mitted to our essential roles in supplying the food and dietary supplement industries while prioritizing the safety of our people and the quality of the ingredients we manufacture. 
Balchem products positively impact the  
lives of countless consumers every day,  
from coffee creamers and cereals that 
inspire the morning, to nutritional supp-lements that help provide the focus and vitality needed to get through the day. Sustaining health through nutrition is part of our commitment to “ solving today and 
shaping tomorrow .” 
Throughout our journey, we have pion-  
eered and built the markets for choline and chelated minerals, which are verified by hundreds of human studies on our products. We lead in technology that reduces food waste through encapsulated preservation and strive to improve the taste, nutrition profile, and mouthfeel of sports drinks and snacks to enhance performance.
OUR DEDICATION TO TRANSPARENCYBalchem leverages decades of expertise 
in proven science, product development, and market insights to create sustainable, winning solutions in health, well-being, and nutrition. We are dedicated to transparency in the products we create. One example is our use of Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) certified Palm Oil as part of our ongoing commitment for product manufacturing in the United States. Using ingredients that are third-party certified is part of how we live our sustainability pledge every day. We also source UTZ-certified coffee and cocoa from suppliers associated with the Rainforest Alliance as part of our global commitment to sustainable farming practices. Using more sustainable purchasing protocols helps to ensure a sustainable supply for the future, support the people raising the crops, and create greater value through transparency. By being more transparent in our practices, Balchem can incrementally move forward and help advance the entire industry’s commitment to sustainability.
SAFE QUALITY INGREDIENTSVitaCholine
® in the forms of choline 
chloride USP and choline bitartrate USP, as 
well as Albion® chelated minerals, are all Non-
GMO Project Verified (NGPV). Improving the bioavailability of our minerals through chelation helps ensure more of the actual mineral is absorbed within the digestive system for the body to use, compared to inorganic mineral forms that are harder to digest and absorb. In 2020, three of our key organic mineral solutions (calcium, zinc, 
and magnesium glycine chelates) were self-affirmed as “generally recognized as safe” ingredients for human consumption. Subjecting Balchem products to this rigorous review process is another way we put safety first and help to ensure our customers receive the highest quality human-grade minerals.
Meeting the dietary requirements of  
our growing human population at every  
life stage by supporting optimal health 
through nutrition is key to sustainability. Focusing on nutrient density as the founda -
tion for healthy eating, Balchem empowers our consumers with better-tasting, more nutritious food choices. Mineral and cho -
line fortification allow food and supplement  
manufacturers to advance nutrition and  
support improved cognition and better brain benefits for all ages.
1
1) https://www.dietaryguidelines.gov/sites/default/files/2020-12/Dietary_Guidelines_for_Americans_2020-2025.pdf 15
PEOPLE
SUSTAINABILITY EFFORTS FOR  
FUTURE GENERATIONS 
Our sustainability commitment extends 
to future generations through public and private partnerships for the betterment  
of human health with the University of  
North Carolina Chapel Hill (UNC) and  
its Nutrition Research Institute (NRI). NRI established a three-year postdoctoral pro -
gram that was completed in 2020 with the creation of an on-site laboratory. This lab -
oratory conducts further research pertain-  
ing to the essential nutrient choline and will educate future students in nutrient  
lifecycles to support healthier lives. 
Good nutrition is the foundation of good 
health, and our HNH segment is dedicated  
to making nutrient-rich products for  
numerous wellness applications. In 2020,  
75% of our R&D expenditures were focused  
on health and nutrition, demonstrating our continued commitment to shape a  
healthier world.SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS
We are advancing our sustainability efforts through our operations. Spray drying and agglomerating food and beverage products 
help to improve transportation efficiency 
and eliminate the transport of unnecessary liquid forms. Instead, Balchem is able to transport dry powdered forms. This helps reduce the total tonnage being shipped,  
increase efficiencies, and reduce the environ -
mental impact of transportation. Our prod -
uct lines include plant-based, vegan, NGPV, and organic solutions for the rapidly devel -
oping nutritional food market. 
As reported by the United States Depart -
ment of Agriculture (USDA) and United States 
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA),
2 
an important way to limit food waste is to  
improve product development, storage, and delivery methods. Balchem contrib -
utes to the reduction in food waste through utilizing technology like the BakeShure
®,  microecapsulated acids we provide for the  
baking industry. Our proprietary micro- 
encapsulation technology helps baked goods 
stay shelf-stable longer without preservatives. 
This will, in turn, translate to less food waste.
75% 
Of R&D funds are focused on  
health and nutrition
Defiance, Ohio R&D Lab
2) https://www.usda.gov/foodwaste/faqs16
PEOPLE
ADVANCING ANIMAL NUTRITION 
WHILE IMPROVING SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTION 
Though 2020 was a difficult year in many 
ways, Balchem continued to move forward with both internal and university-based R&D efforts. Our dedication to meeting the nutritional needs of both production and companion animals took precedence as we adapted to the new challenges pre -
sented by COVID-19, adjusted inventory and production locations to ensure con -
sistent supply, and maintained our focus on meeting the challenges of feeding an ever-growing population.
As a leader in animal nutrition technolo -
gies, we are driving the innovations that 
will change our future. We strive to help livestock producers accomplish more with less, discover unique products that will produce food more efficiently, and move us toward a more secure, sustainable food chain. Our extensive line of specialty nutri -
ents helps support the health and produc -
tivity of many animals – ruminants, poultry, swine, horses, aquaculture, and compan -
ion animals – with products optimized for the unique needs of each species. 
Our Animal Nutrition and Health (ANH) busi -
ness segment provides nutritional products 
formulated with natural and nutritional  
ingredients, including choline chloride, ami -
no acids, minerals, and a variety of other important supplements. Balchem’s propri -
etary microencapsulation and chelation technologies ensure efficient delivery of  
essential nutrients to pets and livestock. Our animal products contribute to their overall health, growth, and performance, as well as the more responsible use of  
resources. ANH products allow for higher protein production, which enables a growing  
global population to be fed more efficiently and reduces the net total animal environ -
mental footprint.
Balchem’s proprietary X encapsulation tech -
nology was commercialized in 2019 with the 
launch of AminoShure
®-XM to the ruminant 
audience. The launch was the culmination of many years of research to develop a new encapsulation process. As a result of our ef -
forts, AminoShure
®-XM delivers methionine 
to ruminant animals more efficiently and cost effectively, allowing dairy farmers to produce high quality milk protein at a low -
er cost with fewer inputs. The X technology has helped the encapsulation process take a giant leap forward. Utilizing advanced coating techniques, X technology delivers  
a product with superior rumen and feed stability combined with metered intestinal  
release to ensure consistent absorption  
within the animal. 
Balchem has now incorporated this tech-  
nology into our ReaShure
® product line  
and successfully launched ReaShure®-XC  
into the European, Middle Eastern, and  
African markets. With a new, highly refined,  
and concentrated core, ReaShure®-XC  
reduces the carbon footprint through low -
ered transportation costs and reduced  
emission while delivering  proven produc -
tion benefits to the cow. Balchem doesn’t feed only animals. We feed 
plants, too. Our plant micronutrient prod -
uct line provides minerals for crops. Using a unique technology, we solve mineral defi -
ciency in plants by delivering optimal min -eral balance directly to the plant through a 
superior delivery system. The end result is  
healthier crops with larger yields and improved  
disease resistance. This approach also reduces the stress on land and water resources.
BALCHEM  
EDUCATION  INITIATIVE
 
Balchem ANH has taken a lead role in 
educating nutritionists and producers by developing the Real Science Lecture  
Series and Real Science Exchange pod -
cast series. Though both were initially geared toward nutritional topics, there has been a high interest in achieving net zero carbon emissions and sustainable on-farm practices. 
Dr. Frank Mitloehner, Dr. Marina Von 
Keyserlingk, and Dr. Mike McCloskey are key figures in helping agriculture meet the sustainability and emissions goals needed to impact climate change. Each has shared their wisdom, insight, and recommendations with our audience of  
more than 15,000 nutritionists, pro -
ducers, agriculture professionals, and enthusiasts who take part in the Real Science Lecture Series. 
A Unique Podcast Discussing  
Hot Topics with Industry Experts17
PEOPLE
FOOD SAFETY
At Balchem, we work to continuously delight 
our customers with the products we man -
ufacture through a focus on product safety and quality. Working through the supply chain, we use a robust supplier approval program to assess and approve materials that are a good match for the process and the end customer requirements. 
We use the knowledge of our people 
who are skilled in multiple different regulatory environments, including food, dietary supplements, and pharma – to find efficiencies and drive best-in-class practices across our quality management systems. Cross-site internal quality audits, as well as independent third-party audits, verify that our programs are robust and drive continuous improvement efforts. External audits include Safe Quality Food (SQF), United States Pharmacopeia (USP), International Safe Feed/Safe Food (FAMI-QS), ISO, and more. 
We continuously invest in improving our 
quality and food safety programs. In 2020, we launched a site-based assessment of all causes of variability using tools like Statistical Process Control (SPC), increased testing and evaluation, raw material, and capability assessments. The Quality Improvement program both improves product conformity and reduces excess costs for rework and destruction. In 2021, we will complete the implementation of a single enterprise resource planning (ERP) system across all sites. Moving to electronically stored data within the ERP system and completing planned upgrades  
to the laboratory information management (LIM) systems will better support data review and statistical trending in real time. Our safety and quality programs have helped our products achieve a 100% success rate. Balchem has not experienced any product recalls through 2020.
Defiance, Ohio Quality Testing Lab Verona, Missouri Quality Testing Lab18
PEOPLE
RAW MATERIAL SUPPLIERS
The COVID-19 pandemic underscored Bal -
chem’s commitment to work closely with 
our suppliers to establish a robust and sus -
tainable supply chain. In 2020, we continued our supplier quality review and audit pro -
gram through virtual and socially distanced audits. We also expanded quality specifica -
tion reviews and supplier commitments to Balchem’s Code of Conduct. 
Balchem has an active raw material quality 
sourcing approval program. The program includes an evaluation of the supplier’s quality program and the material being supplied, as well as verification of the supplier’s preventative approach to food safety risks. In the food safety evaluation process, we consider how the product is made, how it is distributed, and the intended use. As such, Balchem maintains ongoing mea -
sures of key quality performance metrics, including supplier issues, customer com -
plaints, first-pass quality tracking, correc -
tive action, and completion and follow-up site audits as required. We take customer feedback seriously and track customer com -
plaints, complaint investigations, corrective actions, and customer communication of complaint resolution.
In 2020, Balchem completed UTZ certification, 
a program for sustainable farming, for over 40% of our raw cocoa material. This certifica -
tion further ensures fair upstream sourcing and labor practices for a key raw material. 
As the COVID-19 pandemic risks subside, Balchem  
will return to on-site supplier audits  
and expand our verification and  
certification programs. 
CONTACT USSUPPLIER
CODE OF 
CONDUCT877.639.6002
WWW.BALCHEM.COM
CONTACT USSUPPLIER
CODE OF 
CONDUCT877.639.6002WWW.BALCHEM.COMCONTACT USSUPPLIER
CODE OF 
CONDUCT877.639.6002WWW.BALCHEM.COMCONTACT USSUPPLIER
CODE OF 
CONDUCT877.639.6002WWW.BALCHEM.COMSUPPLIER  
CODE OF   
CONDUCT
HOW WE MANAGE QUALITY THROUGHOUT OUR SUPPLY CHAINBalchem’s Supplier Code of Conduct
Step 1: Raw material sourcing, evaluation, and approvalStep 2: Site quality assurance  
program and manufacturing
Step 3: Transportation supplier qualificationSUPPLIER SCORECARD
Quality  
trackingCorrective  
actionFollow-up  
site audit19
PEOPLE
Balchem is committed to providing a safe and collaborative 
work environment that encourages the growth and develop-  
ment of all employees.
HUMAN CAPITAL
Our employees are our most valued asset 
and fundamental to our success. We strive to develop employee skills and knowledge. The employee experience begins with an  
online onboarding portal, detailed informa -
tion regarding Balchem’s benefit program offerings, and an employee handbook that provides extensive information on com -
pany policies. Training is facilitated through our online system and features employee self-service training modules that docu -
ment the understanding and completion of assigned or required training. This system provides training for job-specific technical knowledge, regulatory requirements, and company policies, including Balchem’s Code of Conduct, anti-harassment and discrimina -
tion, foreign corrupt practices, antitrust, and various other compliance topics.
Our sponsored Employee Continuing 
Learning program offers a broad base of assistance for employees, including learning and development courses. Employees have access to healthy lifestyle discounts  
through our Wellness Center, as well as debt, legal, and financial counseling. Peak performance training and multiple online services and courses enable our employees to choose their own learning paths and work to achieve their future goals for education, finances, and overall well-being.
To ensure the development of Balchem’s 
future leaders in 2020, we expanded our leadership program offerings through  
eCornell. Balchem’s partnership with  
eCornell, a leader in online learning, contrib -
utes to our leadership development efforts through their leadership- and expert-led c
ourses. Members of Balchem’s leadership 
team had the opportunity to complete  
eCornell’s Diversity and Inclusion Certificate Program. This investment in our leaders will enhance our organization’s ability to further develop a culture that values  
diversity and embraces inclusion. We are continually increasing our awareness of behaviors that encourage engagement with those across a variety of backgrounds and perspectives. Additionally, our female leaders have an opportunity to take exec-  
utive leadership courses with eCornell  
professors and other female leaders. This learning opportunity creates a unique community of female leaders and helps cultivate competencies and skills for career  
advancement throughout Balchem. 
We are continuously working to extend 
education and outreach opportunities beyond Balchem to the community at large, including engagement with local schools to highlight various career opportunities or local industry councils to collaborate and share best human capital practices within our industry. We provide financial support for employees to pursue degree programs, and on an annual basis, we award scholar-ships to support the education of employees’ children through the Balchem Sons and Daughters Scholarship Program. 
BALCHEM SONS  
AND DAUGHTERS  
SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM
Since the program’s inception in 2005,  
Balchem has proudly awarded $138,000 
in scholarships to children of employ -
ees to help them to achieve their edu -
cational goals. In 2020, we awarded 10 scholarships totaling $20,000.
20
PEOPLE
Through our Balchem Women’s Impact 
Network (BWIN), we offer a platform for all women at Balchem to feel empowered and have an opportunity to thrive both professionally and personally. The BWIN group meets regularly and shares a wide array of topics addressing leadership, business success, and networking.
Our annual performance review process is 
an important, objective-based dialogue to foster continuous growth and development by providing an opportunity to establish goals and deliver feedback relative to each employee’s performance. Balchem’s annual review process is closely aligned with a formal succession planning and talent review process designed to identify and develop the next generation of leaders. The results of our performance, talent, and succession planning practices are reviewed annually by Balchem’s leadership team and Board of Directors.
We are dedicated to providing full-time 
employees with a competitive compensa -
tion package that includes medical, dental,  
vision, and prescription benefits in addition  to a 401K matching program. Balchem  
provides financial support for health  
and wellness programs such as online  
financial wellness content, sponsored weight loss programs, and subsidized gym memberships. We also provide gener -
ous time off and leave benefits, which are  
important for ensuring our employees  
can enjoy a healthy balance between work and family time.
Diversity and inclusion are important 
elements of Balchem’s human resources strategy as evidenced by our Chairman and CEO’s recent commitment to the CEO Action pledge to advance diversity and inclusion in the workplace. Since 2016, Balchem’s gender and ethnic diversity have increased by 7% and 15% respectively. Additionally, female representation in our commercial, R&D, and corporate functions has risen to 52%. While we are pleased to see meaningful progress, Balchem remains committed to improving diversity and building an inclusive culture throughout our company. 
 Established:  2018
Vision:  To inspire women of Balchem  
to capture their full potential.
Mission:  To build a platform that informs, 
develops, and empowers all of us to thrive 
both professionally and personally.
Current Membership:  122
Bridgeton, Missouri employees discussing safety and production planEMPLOYEE HEADCOUNT  
(AS OF 12/31/20)
12001250130013501400
01150
*Increase in headcount is a result of the Chemogas 
and Zumbro acquisitions in 2019.2018 2019 20201,1451,424*
1,342
Employee  
retention92.5%
SALARIED
81.2%
HOURLY2020 RETENTION RATE21
PEOPLE
2019-2020 GENDER DIVERSITY COMPARISON
MALE FEMALE EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY – GENDER
2020
76.6%
2019
76.5%23.4% 
23.5% 
EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY – SALARIED
2020
2019
66.2%65.2% 34.8% 
33.8% 
LEADERSHIP POSITIONS*
74.2%
77.3%2020
201925.8%  
22.7%  
BOARD OF DIRECTOR POSITIONS
2020201987.0%
87.0%13.0% 13.0% 
52% 
Of our company is female 
excluding Supply Chain and Operations
*Leadership positions include employees at the level of Director and above.22
PEOPLE
Protecting the safety, health, and welfare of our  
employees and communities is the right thing to do.
ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH,  
SAFETY, AND SECURITY
We are committed to good stewardship and 
continuous improvement in our Environ -
mental, Health, Safety, and Security pro -
gram. We develop standards and practices that enable our employees, contractors, visitors, and neighbors to operate in a safe, secure, and responsible work environment. We continually strive to achieve zero inju -
ries and minimize releases to the environ -
ment. In 2020, our facilities reduced the number of recordable injuries by 12% and the recordable injury rate – based on the Occupational Safety and Health Administra -
tion (OSHA) standard calculation per hours of work – by 21%. We continue to grow the number of sites that have gone more than one year without a recordable injury, with 61% of our sites achieving this goal in 2020.
Our highest priority is to promote the 
health and wellness of our employees by building a strong injury prevention program centered around these pillars: 
1. Ensuring employees take personal ownership for working safely and their team’s safety
2. Reinforcing safe work as a standard
3. Using prevention techniques to identify risks and mitigating before they cause injuries 
4. Making it easy for our team to choose safe work practices
5. Developing a culture and process for continuous improvement  In 2020, we expanded our prevention pro-gram elements by adding safety training compliance tracking, recognition programs for identifying unsafe situations, and a weekly safety “best practices” topic. These program elements were employed in our tool box talks and every site safety aware -
ness engagement. Our Stop Taking Avoidable Risks (STAR) observation program also con -
tinued to grow with a 9% increase in safety  
observations. We believe the increase in 
STAR observations is an indication that our 
employees are incorporating safety in their day-to-day work.   Number of recordable injuries
12%
Recordable injuries rate
21%
SITES OVER ONE YEAR WITHOUT AN INJURY
Our goal is zero injuries at all of our locations. We endeavor to build a culture and system that can achieve and sustain zero injuries. While safe work is achieved a day at a time, zero injury performance over longer periods is a result of the quality of our safety program, our leadership and our employees’ commitments to excellence in employing injury prevention practices. Our lead site in Green Pond, South Carolina achieved eight years injury-free in 2020. 
NUMBER OF SITES WITH ZERO INJURIES BY YEAR
0248101214
614
>1 year10
>2 years8
>3 years >8 years123
PEOPLE
Our safety program identified lifting as 
an important ongoing risk for personal 
injury at our manufacturing sites. Now in our third year, we continue to implement lifting  
devices and automation with the goal to reduce all manual lifting or carrying across the company by 50%. 
We completed several projects and a major  
investment at our Defiance, Ohio manu-
facturing site in 2020. We installed a material handling system to automate the transport  
to the warehouse and palleting of the output from two main production units. This was a multi-year project and automated the handling of over 35 million pounds of production. A similar project was also completed at our Lincoln, Nebraska manufacturing site.
REDUCING  
LIFTING  
INJURY RISKS
Over the last two years we have  
implemented major projects at over 
60% of our sites to reduce workplace injury risk with employee lifting or carrying. Our goal is to reduce lifts in our facilities by 50%. These projects bring many benefits, such as mak -
ing the work safer and providing a more positive work environment.
In 2020, Balchem specifically  
focused on site improvements at 
the following sites: Utah, Virginia, New York, Ohio, Minnesota, Iowa,  
Wiscons in, and Italy.
Defiance, Ohio robot continuing the use of automation to reduce lifting24
PEOPLE
COVID-19 RESPONSE
In 2020, our facilities were designated critical 
operations for the economy during the pan -
demic. To ensure our employees’ safety and maintain our role as a critical supplier to our communities, we implemented a rigorous COVID-19 prevention program that integrated safe work best practices from the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), local governments, leading authorities, and peer industry practices. A corporate-level lead -
ership team was established to guide our efforts during the pandemic and to ensure resources were made available to employees. An operations steering team and site-based team facilitated our rapid response to this employee health risk. Balchem’s program  
included two key elements: our people and our facilities. We started by educating our employees on the risk factors and techniques to prevent exposure while at the workplace and at home, and the need for open recognition of any condition where an employee could be concerned with their health. Where possible, we moved employees working in the office to remote work from their homes and provided supporting technology. At our sites, we rapidly deployed new personal protective equipment (PPE) to support the requirement that all employees wear face masks. We expanded our protocols on personal hygiene to ensure employees used appropriate sanitation practices. Balchem also established the safe distance working requirements and individual employee daily contact documentation to enable a contact tracing system. Additionally, we installed body temperature checks for all workers and visitors upon entering the site with procedures to follow for personnel experiencing any unusual results. To help our team weather this crisis, employees were provided additional compensation, paid  
leave to support virus testing, close contact exposure incubation time, and sickness recovery time.
In our facilities, our teams modified per -
sonnel movement and meeting room use 
to ensure the recommended safe distance 
could be maintained. We established more frequent and additional cleaning for surfaces that could harbor the virus and protocols to ensure employees also used good personal  
sanitation practices. New controls were put in place to limit access to our sites and we increased the requirements for contrac -
tors and non-essential employees who were  
allowed access in an effort to reduce the risk of frequent contact. 
While the communities in which we oper- 
ate saw numerous exposure events, our protocols and procedures were very successful and there were no reported exposure events at our facilities.
Ogden, Utah site using a temperature scanner 
before allowing entranceCOVID-19 PREVENTION  
ELEMENTS
 E mployee education
 F ace masks
 S ocial distancing
 E mployee temperature checks
 C ontrolled entry
 En hanced cleaning
Defiance, Ohio performing  a Job Safety Assessment (JSA) with social distancing and  
COVID-19 protocols
Green Pond, South Carolina gift distribution  
recognizing employment of COVID-19 protocols25
PEOPLE
Partnering together to make the world a healthier place.
CORPORATE GIVING AND  
COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT
At Balchem, we pride ourselves on being 
contributing active members of the com -
munities in which we work. We contribute in a variety of ways, at the organizational level  
and as individuals. In 2020, we launched our Balchem Helping Hands initiative which includes Balchem’s philanthropic partner -
ships, a matching donation program, and an employee volunteering program.  
In 2020, Balchem partnered with Vitamin 
Angels, a global public health nonprofit that distributes lifesaving vitamins and miner -
als to women and children in need around the world. With this partnership, we have already reached 100,000 women and chil -
dren at risk of nutrient deficiencies in 74 countries across the world. While each of us has been touched by this year’s unprece -
dented events in unexpected ways, we have also encountered new ways to appreciate our shared humanity. Vitamin Angels rem-ains steadfastly committed to improving access to nutrition interventions for under-  
served pregnant women and children.
Balchem’s Helping Hands Matching Donation 
Program supports our employees in their personal philanthropy and charitable giving by providing monetary matches (dollar for dollar) for non-profit organizations that align with Balchem’s vision to make the world a healthier place. In 2020, Balchem made matching donations to over 30 different  
charitable organizations in our communities.
Our Helping Hands Employee Volunteer 
Program was also launched in 2020. As part of this exciting program, we provided all employees with a new virtual platform that can be used to log and track volunteer hours for both personal and work-related events. The platform has enabled collaboration and idea sharing across our locations and generated additional volunteering events. We are very proud of our employees who, considering all the challenges everyone has faced through this pandemic, were still able to give back to their communities in numerous ways.
During the 2020 holiday season, members of 
our corporate office in New Hampton, New York, and our remote sales team partnered with “Knock Knock Give a Sock”, which is an organization that works to humanize homelessness one sock at a time by bringing neighbors living in homeless shelters and homes together. The New Hampton site collected 227 pairs of socks with their sock drive, as well as winter hats and gloves, which were donated to a local shelter. 
FLEECE  
BLANKETS
Our Lincoln site created fleece tie 
blankets which were donated to the Capital Humane Society in 2020. These blankets will be used in the dog and cat kennels to create a warm and comforting environment. 
Lincoln, Nebraska employees making blankets for Capital Humane Society26
PEOPLE
Other employee volunteer efforts included 
giving facility tours to emergency response 
teams from local fire departments, hosting winter coat drives, supporting local food banks, delivering meals to senior citizens, hosting “Relay for Life” charity walks, and volunteering at animal shelters. Balchem has various members of our team serving on community advisory panels and local emergency planning committees. This allows us to work side by side with city and county leaders to develop strong community emerg-  
ency protocols and communication. We have several team members serving as volunteer firemen and emergency medical technicians. This interaction enables us to share devel -
opments and the growth of our facilities with our fellow community members while  
addressing any questions or concerns they may have.
KOOLER KIDS
Balchem started the “Kooler Kids’’ 
program in 2020 to help support 
nationwide food banks purchasing refrigeration units. With Balchem’s support, the local food banks will be able to have the proper refrigeration equipment to store perishable goods and distribute to those in need. Refrigeration units will also help reduce food waste and dairy dumping. A large portion of Balchem’s initial donation will be geared toward food banks in our own communities.BLESSING BOX
Our Green Pond facility installed a 
Blessing Box at the entrance to their  
facility which is available to any member of their community. The Blessing Box is stocked with non- perishable food items, basic toilet -
ries, baby supplies, and anything  else that might be considered a blessing to someone who finds themselves in need of necessities. WATER BOTTLES  
FOR SCHOOLS
Our Green Pond team participated in an event called “Water Bottles for Schools” and delivered reusable  
water bottles to the Black Street  
Early Childhood Center to ensure every child had access to safe  
hydration breaks during the 2020-21 school year. 
Green Pond, South Carolina employees with their Blessing Box
Green Pond, South Carolina employees packing water bottles for a local school27
5
PLANET28
PLANET
We are committed to responsible sourcing and to encouraging 
our suppliers to employ sustainable practices.
MATERIAL SOURCING
The raw materials and supplies that are used 
in our supply chain represent an important component to Balchem’s sustainability commitment. We are committed not only to ensuring that we work to increase our use of renewable raw materials and that all materials are manufactured within an ethically responsible framework, but that we also have a strong and diverse supply chain that supports our customers’ needs.
We are committed to aligning our supply 
chains to source regionally and finding sources that are near our facilities. Our commitment not only reduces our carbon footprint by reducing the energy used in transit, but also increases the strength of our supplier network by bringing us closer to our upstream sources, allowing us to ensure quality, compliance, and strength of supply. This principle is illustrated through the fact that 95% of our raw materials originate in the United States or Europe, where the majority of our production occurs.
Balchem remains a committed member of 
the RSPO, as well as a member of Sedex. As a member of the RSPO, we source 100% of our palm oil needs from renewable (mass balance) sources. We also confirm our commitment to redeveloping our supply chain to 100% RSPO-certified material. As a member of Sedex, we comply with the principles of the Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA), which establishes best practices for environmental and business ethics. Balchem is committed to ensuring compliance with SMETA at all of our facilities. Expanding on our commitment, we have updated our Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement, which can be found  
on our website at www.balchem.com/
modern-slavery-human-trafficking-statement . 
We view our suppliers as integral partners in our supply chain, and in 2020, we reaffirmed our commitment to ensuring compliance to our Supplier Code of Conduct. This conduct is based on Balchem’s core values and requires commitment to sustainable business practices, which include our material supplier audit program and peri-  
odic on-site visits of chemical suppliers. 
Of all palm oil  
sourced certified through RSPO100%
=10%
Regional diversity in raw materials and suppliers.  
We are committed to aligning our supply chains to source  
regionally and finding sources near our facilities.73% 
USA
2% 
OTHER1% 
CHINA5% 
ASIA (EX. CHINA)19% 
EU29
PLANET
We are continuously looking for ways to improve our 
energy efficiency and reduce our environmental impact. 
ENERGY MANAGEMENT
Balchem utilizes low energy-intensive man -
ufacturing processes. We are committed to 
finding innovative improvements to further reduce energy requirements and minimize the associated greenhouse gas (GHG) emis -
sions. As part of this commitment, we have established a program to reduce our GHG emissions by 25% by the year 2030 against our 2020 baseline. Our program is integrat -
ed with our corporate productivity initiative where a projected environmental impact is an important factor in selection. We recog -
nize that projects that contribute to meaning -
ful energy reductions are based on employing good science and stewardship, and result in improved profitability.
In 2020, our focus on energy efficiency proj -
ects included a broad array of initiatives: 
LED lighting projects, numerous individual equipment efficiency upgrades, the installa -
tion of our first solar power system, proj -
ects modernizing steam systems within several locations, and select consolidation of operations. We continue to modernize our steam sys -
tems with the installation of a new high efficiency boiler and heat optimization system at our Verona, Missouri site, our largest facility in the US. The project was 
completed in the fourth quarter of 2020 
and is expected to reduce the site’s over -
all natural gas usage by 16%. At our Sleepy Eye, Minnesota manufacturing site, a low-  
pressure system was installed to reduce 
steam energy use when the main produc -
tion facilities are not operating. Projects at other sites addressed opportunities to collect waste heat streams and return the water and heat for reuse.
Significant energy is consumed with low-use  
facilities and production systems. Beyond  
heating and lighting, start and stop operations  
generally have a higher energy intensity for  
a small output. Balchem actively seeks to  
identify these situations, and if determined  
to be a long-term issue, conducts consoli-
dation studies looking for alternative and  
more efficient manufacturing solutions. WEEKEND 
BOILER IN 
SLEEPY EYE
Cold Minneso ta winters require  
adequate heat to pipes and facilities at 
all times – even when not in produc -
tion. At the Sleepy Eye facility, where we have five-day operations, we are required to continue running our high-output boiler systems even when major production consumers are shut down. The boiler units in low-demand mode are also very inefficient. In 2020, the facility installed a low-pressure/low-output boiler system designed to maintain adequate building heat while significantly reducing the energy and cost during w eekends. 
25% 
Our commitment for reducing our 
global GHG emissions by 2030
 The new boiler at the Verona, Missouri site
 Sleepy Eye, Minnesota boiler30
PLANET
Several of these projects were implemented  
in 2020, the largest being the closure of 
the Owatonna, Minnesota site and the consolidation of production into the existing Albert Lea, Minnesota site. Closing this site is expected to reduce our natural gas use by 142,517 therms per year and electrical energy use by 1,905 gigajoules (GJ) per year.
Balchem analyzed our food production 
processes for opportunities to reduce energy required for heating and cooling. Chiller systems can be large energy consumers. In 2020, we implemented  
the next phase of modernizing chiller systems within our inclusions production system. The project replaced the old ammonia chiller system with a modern refrigerant system.EFFICIENT  
COMPRESSOR 
S
YSTEMS
Our operations use many pumps and compressors to move product, clean systems, and provide utilities. In an assessment of high-energy consumers, the Lincoln site identified the air compressor, which had a fixed-speed motor, as a large user. Much of the air was recycled and the unit mostly operated inefficiently. The site identified a spare variable-speed system at a sister site and installed the new unit in September 2020. The project is expected to save up to 300 GJ per year and result in significant cost savings.SOLAR PANELS  
IN GRIMBERGEN
Our sustainability initiatives are 
f
ocused on renewable energy strat -
egies as we explore environmentally 
friendly and sustainable methods to power our buildings and facilities. In 2020, we implemented a solar panel project at our Grimbergen, Belgium facility as a pilot to learn how to best leverage solar power as a source. 
T
his system became operational in 
December 2020. It is rated at 24.8 kilowatts peak (kWp) and is expect -
ed to produce approximately 21,000 kWh per year.
Grimbergen, Belgium solar project 31
PLANET
Balchem facilities strive to reduce waste products and reuse 
and recycle packaging with the help of local businesses.
WASTE RECYCLING 
AND REDUCTION
Balchem understands the opportunity and 
benefit of smart waste saving for our busi- ness and communities. Our program has five main areas of focus for source reduction or recycling: hazardous waste,
3 process waste, 
packaging waste, product disposal, and consumable waste. In 2020, we decreased disposal of unsaleable product by 90% via  
investments in processing equipment filtra -
tion and detection of foreign matter, com -
plemented with process management and procedural changes. Significant cost savings came from both the decrease in landfill dis -
posal costs and reduced product loss.We continued our strong emphasis on re -
covering and recycling process-generated 
hazardous waste streams in 2020. With 
the addition of the  Grimbergen, Belgium   
facility, We expanded our sustainability program focus to maintain our high recy -
cle and reuse rates. All sites continue to promote and manage their consumable wastes, including safety supplies, lab sup -
plies, pallets, plastic containers, and PPE by promoting reuse or source reduction where possible.MANAGING  
HAZARDOUS MATERIAL 
SUPPLY AND USE
Balchem carefully selects and manages 
relationships with the companies cho -
sen as raw material suppliers.  We man -
age a robust Department of Transporta -
tion (DOT) compliance program for our fleet of drivers and require the same of our contract transportation providers.
RECOVERY OF  
PRIMARY HAZARDOUS 
RAW MATERIALS3
We have recycled 99% of our primary  
hazardous raw materials from 2018 
through 2020.
FIVE MAIN AREAS OF FOCUS FOR SOURCE REDUCTION OR RECYCLING
Consumable waste
Reduce/  
RecyclePackaging  
waste
Product  
disposalHazardous  
wasteProcess  
waste
Gas cylinders recycled by Grimbergen, Belgium site 
3) Balchem defines major hazardous materials as ethylene oxide, trimethylamine, hydrochloric acid, anhydrous ammonia, propylene oxide, and carbon disulfide. 32
PLANET
WATER MANAGEMENT
Balchem facilities operate in low-stress 
water regions. Our processes use limited amounts of water in our products and in the manufacturing process. As a food and nutrition business, we use water to clean and sanitize. To better understand our water usage, we have developed a more efficient mechanism for tracking how our water is consumed. This has allowed us to identify our current usage and brainstorm opportunities for reduction and reuse. By 2030, it is our goal to reduce our overall global water usage by 25% against our 2020 baseline.
We also launched several projects to con-  
serve and recycle water in 2020.  We identified 
a project at our Marshfield, Wisconsin facility to replace the Motor Control Center room cooling unit, which is expected to save two million gallons of water per year.  We also designed a project in our Bridgeton, Missouri facility to modify pump seals, which is estimated to reduce water usage by 0.9 
million gallons per year. In addition, we will continue our network-wide improvement  
in our steam systems. 
Balchem completed several projects in 
2020 that allow our sites to reduce the use of  
cleaning water. At the Defiance, Ohio site, a protocol was developed to eliminate water cleanings between batches and use dry cleaning techniques instead. This protocol both reduces our cleaning water usage and frees up significant production time. In our Covington, Virginia site, we upgraded to an enclosed material handling system which eliminated quarterly cleanings of the equipment and area from escaping dust.  
We expect to continue to pursue oppor-tunities for reducing water consumed  
in cleaning. 
We are also continuing our water recovery 
projects related to steam condensate recovery. In 2020, we completed the first phase of a condensate modernization at  
our Lincoln, Nebraska facility. This has resulted in recovering approximately 12% of the water used in making steam as condensate returned to the boiler. In 2021, we will be completing another project  
which will allow the plant to recover up to 50% of the water. The majority of the remaining steam is consumed by the  
process and cannot be recovered. 
In the same vein, many of our processes 
use water for cooling and some processes generate water as a by-product. In January 2020, we implemented a facility operation to recover our process water from our  
choline manufacturing at our Verona, Missouri manufacturing facility. This major change resulted in recycling an estimated 4.3 million gallons of water through regional municipal facilities for community reuse.
25% 
Our water conservation goal to reduce global  
usage by 25% by 2030
12.53 CBM
Water intensity (cubic meters of  
water withdrawal per metric ton of  
product produced)
0.06%
Water withdrawal from  
regions with high or extremely  
high baseline water stress The Covington, Virginia plant’s dust reduction project is saving water via the material handling systems33
6
PROFIT34
PROFIT
“At our core, we are a health and nutrition company.”
— Ted Harris, Chairman and CEO
OUR FOUNDATION
At Balchem, it is our mission to build a 
stronger and more vibrant company that meaningfully contributes to making the world a healthier place by delivering trusted,  
innovative, and science-based solutions to the nutrition, health, and food markets. As we work to execute this mission, we have  
remained focused on creating long-term  
value by continuously seeking growth opp-  
ortunities and managing our risks, which helps ensure our financial sustainability.
In 2020, we were able to effectively supply 
our customers with the important prod -
ucts and services they needed throughout the year and ultimately delivered record sales with contributions from both our organic and inorganic strategic growth ini -
tiatives. This really speaks to the resilience of both our employee base and our busi -
ness model, which enabled us to further strengthen our capital structure while con -
tinuing to face and overcome significant challenges and uncertainties related to the global pandemic. 
To further our efforts in making the world 
a healthier place, we have continued to  
advance the science around the nutritional  
and health benefits of our existing and future products. Among other things, we have invested in research which explores the benefits of prenatal choline in neu -
rological development and cognition, the positive relationship between choline and DHA (an omega-3 fatty acid essential for healthy heart and brain function), and the possibilities of establishing a biomarker for choline in order to help detect choline deficiencies in humans. We also worked to build further awareness around existing  science and to better showcase to our 
customers how they can incorporate and benefit from our products. For  
example, several leading consumer brands have launched products in 2020 inc-  
luding and highlighting the health benefits of our VitaCholine
® and Albion® minerals.
Within Animal Nutrition and Health, our scientists have continued to pur -
sue the expanded application of our  
innovative products across both the  
ruminant and monogastric sectors, such as 
mature cow and calf immunity, neonatal  
in utero programming through choline  
supplementation, and greatly improved for -
mulations for swine and poultry diets. In  
our companion animal portfolio, we are 
leveraging our microencapsulation and  inclusion technologies and enabling our cus-
tomers to further innovate in the pet food 
space. We have had great success with our 
educational and science-based webinars,  
attracting high attendance to effec-  
tively reach and interact with an expanded  
target audience despite the pandemic.
Within Specialty Products, our Plant Nutrition 
business returned to healthy growth levels, 
benefiting from a good growing season 
in North America as well as new crop  
applications, geographic expansion, and 
significant growth achieved from our organic 
line of products that we recently bolstered 
with the addition of a new organic potassium.
In 2020, we also completed the integration 
of our two 2019 acquisitions, Chemogas 
N.V. (Chemogas) and Zumbro River Brand, 
Inc. (Zumbro). These acquisitions are now 
fully integrated and furthering our reach to 
medical device sterilization and food and 
beverage industry customers. All in all, it 
was another strong year in furthering our 
mission and we look forward to continuing 
this momentum into 2021 and beyond.
Bridgeton, Missouri R&D Lab2020
28.2%
24.7%2019
Revenue from products developed  
in the past five years35
PROFIT
OUR GOVERNANCE
We have established leading practices in 
corporate governance. Each of Balchem’s directors, other than our Chairman and CEO, Ted Harris, is independent, as defined by the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotations’ (NASDAQ) Marketplace Rules. All directors have  
attended 100% of our Board and Board Committee meetings during the course  
of the last ten years. We strongly encour-  
age directors to also attend the annual  
stockholder meeting, leading to 100% of  
our directors attending the meeting in  
2020. Our annual meetings have been  
held virtually since 2018, which offers the  
opportunity for increased attendance by  
shareholders and other interested parties.  
Going virtual also reduces materials and  
cost. These practices not only satisfy  regulatory requirements, but provide effec -
tive company oversight and management.
Our Board and management are compen -
sated to enhance shareholder value. The 
compensation system, which is outlined in our annual proxy statement – www.
balchem.com/investor-relations/financial-  
reports  – aligns management and director  
compensation with financial results and shareholder return.
We are working to incorporate our Sustain-  
ability Framework into our everyday oper -
ations. A cross-functional executive steering 
committee, led by the Chairman and CEO, with additional representatives from our business units, finance, investor relations, human resources, R&D, internal audit, law, supply chain, and operations has been estab -lished. The charter of the Board’s Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee (CG&N Committee) requires the group to consider corporate social responsibility mat -
ters, including ESG. 
The CG&N Committee periodically reviews 
Balchem’s ESG strategy, initiatives, and policies. We have modified our Corporate Governance Guidelines to more accurately reflect our company’s commitment to seek -
ing and electing diverse board members. Additionally, the Sustainability Framework includes a Code of Ethics for Senior Finan -
cial Officers and a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics applicable to all our employ-  
ees and directors. These documents are  
available at www.balchem.com/investor-  
relations/leadership .
REVENUE
$700M
$550M$600M$650M
$553.2M
2016$594.8M
2017$643.7M
2018$643.7M
2019$703.6M
2020
ADJUSTED EBITDA*
$185M
$140M$155M$170M
$149.3M $147.8M
2016 20
17$159.9M
2018$160.0M
2019$174.2M
2020
BCPC
5-YEAR TOTAL  
SHAREHOLDER RETURN (TSR) 
VS RUSSELL 2000 INDEX
15.7% (1,570 bps)
TSR measured from 2016 to 2020
*Adjusted EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest,  
other expense/income, taxes, depreciation, amortization,
stock-based compensation, acquisition-related expenses,
indemnification settlements, legal settlements, and the fair 
valuation of acquired inventory.36
PROFIT
RISK MANAGEMENT
Balchem recognizes that risk is inherent to 
any business activity and that managing risk effectively is critical to the immediate and future success of the company. Our Board provides direct risk oversight and the Board’s Audit Committee provides direct oversight of our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program. Our ERM program is based on the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) ERM Integrated Framework. Our Board, Audit Committee, and management regularly discuss our major risk exposures, the potential impact, and the management of these risks. The Audit Committee receives and arranges for the Board to receive periodic reports from management on areas of material risk, inc-luding financial, operational, legal, regul-  
atory, and strategic risks. 
While we do not have a Chief Risk Offi -
cer, the Audit Committee receives regular  
reports from the member of management 
tasked with understanding and monitor -
ing key risk mitigation. The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the full Board with respect to Balchem’s risk man -
agement efforts, which enables the Board to monitor risks and oversee risk mitiga -
tion efforts. The Compensation Commit -
tee also evaluates risk related to our com -
pensation program.ESG FRAMEWORK POLICIES
As part of our continued risk management and governance practices, Balchem has several policies in place related to our ESG framework:
• Anti-bribery Policy
• California Consumer Privacy  
 Ac t Policy
• Code of Business Conduct  
 a nd Ethics
• Corporate Statement on  
 C onflict Minerals• Diversity and Inclusion Policy
• Environmental Compliance Policy
• Modern Slavery and Human  
 T rafficking Statement
• Risk Management Policy
• Safety and Health Policy
• Supplier Code of Conduct
$84.6M2020
GAAP net earningsGAAP EARNINGS PER SHARE
$2.75
$2.50
$2.25$2.42
2018$2.45
2019$2.60
2020
FREE CASH FLOW CONVERSION*
150%
140%
130%
120%127%
2018121%
2019138%
2020
*Free cash flow conversion = (cash flow from operating activities –  
capital expenditures)/net earnings37
CONCLUSION
We are committed to operating responsibly and creating a 
sustainable future for our customers, suppliers, employees, communities, and shareholders.
We thank you for taking time and allowing us to share the work our company has done to integrate sustainability into our strategy operations and business decisions. We hope this report has provided a clear understanding of our progress over the past year. Balchem is committed to operating responsibly and creating a sustainable future for our customers, suppliers, and stakeholders. Moving forward, we will continue to foster these fundamental principles broadly along the entire value chain, develop new ideas and technologies that help us work smarter, and help build a world that is a better place to live. 
For more information about Balchem Corporation, please visit  
www.balchem.com.38
7
APPENDIX39
APPENDIX: GRI INDEX
GRI INDEX 
This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. The issues addressed in this report were identified and 
prioritized by engaging a wide range of stakeholders internally and externally (see About Our Report ). Through this process, we identified 
ESG topics that are material to our company, some of which are covered by GRI Standards. Those topics are included in this GRI Index. 
Based on availability of data, not all GRI disclosures are reported fully. For more information on GRI Standards, visit https://www.global -
reporting.org/standards .
Disclosure Number Description  Location and Notes
GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE
102-1 Name of the organization Our Vision
102-2 Activities, brands, products,  
and servicesMessage from Our Chairman and CEO
102-3 Location of headquarters 2020 Annual Report
102-4 Location of operations2020 Annual Report
102-5 Ownership and legal form 2020 Annual Report
102-6 Markets served 2020 Annual Report
102-7 Scale of the organization2020 Annual Report
102-8 Information on employees and  
other workersPeople – Human Capital
102-9 Supply chain Planet – Material Sourcing
102-10 Significant changes to the  
organization and its supply chainAbout Our Report
102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Profit
102-12 External initiativesIncluded throughout the report40
APPENDIX: GRI INDEX
Disclosure Number Description  Location and Notes
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE (CONTINUED)
102-13 Membership associations Management is officers or members of, or support, the  
following associations:
• Advanced Medical Technology Association (AdvaMed)
• American Animal Science Association
• American Association of Analytical Chemists (AOAC)
• American Association of Bovine Practitioners (AABP)
• American Association of Veterinary Nutritionists (AAVN)
• American Canine Sports Medicine Association (ACSM)
• American Chemistry Council – Ethylene Oxide Safety Task Group
• American Chemistry Council – Ethylene Oxide/Ethylene Glycols  
Management
• American Chemistry Council – Toxicology Research Task Group
• American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA)
• American Society for Mass Spectrometry
• American Society for Quality (ASQ)
• American Society of Animal Science (ASAS)
• American Spice Trade Association (ASTA)
• Council of Industry - Southeastern NY
• Ethylene Oxide Sterilization Association (EOSA)
• International Association for Food Protection
• Minnesota Food Protection Association
• National Agri-Marketers Association (NAMA)
STRATEGY
102-14 Statement from senior decision makerMessage from Our Chairman and CEO
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Included throughout the report, by topics41
APPENDIX: GRI INDEX
Disclosure Number Description  Location and Notes
ETHICS AND INTEGRITY
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and  
norms of behaviorBalchem Corporation Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns 
about ethicsBalchem Corporation Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
GOVERNANCE
102-18, 102-20, 102-27 Governance structure Profit – Our Governance
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Message from Our Chairman and CEO
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Balchem has established good working relationships at the  
Verona, MO, Marano Ticino, Italy, and Bertinoro, Italy sites. In 2020, approximately 18% of our employees were represented by collective bargaining agreements.
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders
About Our Report
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement About Our Report
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised About Our Report
REPORTING PRACTICE
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 2020 Annual Report
102-46 Defining report content and  
topic BoundariesAbout Our Report
102-47 List of material topics About Our Report
102-48 Restatements of information There have been no changes in reporting from the previous year. 42
APPENDIX: GRI INDEX
Disclosure Number Description  Location and Notes
REPORTING PRACTICE (CONTINUED)
102-49 Changes in reporting There have been no changes in reporting from the previous year. 
102-50 Reporting period About Our Report
102-51 Date of most recent report About Our Report
102-52 Reporting cycleAbout Our Report
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding  
the reportsustainability@balchem.com
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance  
with the GRI Appendix – GRI Index
102-55 GRI content index Appendix – GRI Index
102-56 External assurance There is no external assurance obtained over the People and  
Planet pillars. Profit financial data that is listed in the 10-K has 
been audited.
GRI 301: MATERIALS 2016
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and  
its boundaryAbout Our Report
103-2 The management approach and  
its componentsPlanet – Material Sourcing
103-3 Evaluation of the management  
approachPlanet – Material Sourcing
TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES
301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Planet – Material Sourcing
Total volume of materials (lbs):  
Renewable – 165.7M  
Non-renewable – 287M43
APPENDIX: GRI INDEX
Disclosure Number D escripti on L ocation and Notes
GRI 302: ENERGY 2016
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 
its boundaryAbout Our Report
103-2 The management approach and 
its componentsPlanet – Energy Management
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approachPlanet – Energy Management
TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES
302-3 Energy intensity Planet – Energy Management
Prior year energy intensity included electricity use only. Current 
year energy intensity includes all energy sources.
•Electric Only EI .70 GJ/Ton (Produced)
•Gas Only EI 3.05 GJ/Ton
•Combined EI 3.75 GJ/Ton
GRI 303: WATER AND EFFLUENTS 2018
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 
its boundaryAbout Our Report
103-2 The management approach and 
its componentsPlanet – Water Management
103-3 Evaluation of the management 
approachPlanet – Water Management
MANAGEMENT APPROACH DISCLOSURES
303-1 Interactions with water as a  
shared resourceWe performed water scarcity research (refer to Planet – Water 
Management ) and determined that there is less than 1% water 
withdrawn from high water stress areas. 44
APPENDIX: GRI INDEX
Disclosure Number Description  Location and Notes
TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES
303-2 Management of water discharge  
related impactsBalchem works with local municipalities as facilities discharge  
water into municipal sources, except for one location which is 
tightly controlled. We do not operate any plants that are located in high-stress water regions. The results of the water stress analysis (refer to Planet – Water Management ) were shared with the steering 
committee, who oversees water management stewardship.
303-3 Water withdrawal
Planet – Water Management
Total water withdrawn:  
2020: 4,038,291 CBMWater intensity (cubic meters withdrawn per metric ton of  
products produced):  
2020: 12.53  
2019: 10.87  
2018: 11.50
GRI 305: EMISSIONS 2016
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and  
its boundaryAbout Our Report
103-2 The management approach and  
its componentsPlanet – Energy Management
103-3 Evaluation of the management  
approachPlanet – Energy Management
TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) greenhouse  
gas emissionsPlanet – Energy Management
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) greenhouse  
gas emissionsPlanet – Energy Management
503-4 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity Total greenhouse gas emissions intensity (metric tons/revenue  
in millions):  
2020: 109  
2019: 116  
2018: 11545
APPENDIX: GRI INDEX
Disclosure Number Description  Location and Notes
GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 2016
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and  
its boundaryAbout Our Report
103-2 The management approach and  
its componentsPlanet – Waste Recycling and Reduction
103-3 Evaluation of the management  
approachPlanet – Waste Recycling and Reduction
TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Planet – Waste Recycling and Reduction
Total weight of hazardous waste (metric tons): 319.7
GRI 308: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 2016
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and  
its boundaryAbout Our Report
103-2 The management approach and  
its componentsPeople – Food Safety
103-3 Evaluation of the management  
approachPeople – Food Safety
MANAGEMENT APPROACH DISCLOSURES
308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the 
supply chain and actions takenPeople – Food Safety
75% of total hazardous waste suppliers have been audited in the past three years. 46
APPENDIX: GRI INDEX
Disclosure Number Description  Location and Notes
GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 2018
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and  
its boundaryAbout Our Report
103-2 The management approach and  
its componentsPeople – Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security
103-3 Evaluation of the management  
approachPeople – Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security
MANAGEMENT APPROACH DISCLOSURES
403-1 Occupational health and safety  
management systemPeople – Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, 
and incident investigationPeople – Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security
Refer to the JSAs and STAR program.
403-3 Occupational health services People – Environmental, Health, Safety, and SecurityRefer to the JSAs and STAR program.
403-4 Worker participation, consultation,  
and communication on occupational 
health and safetyPeople – Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security
Refer to the JSAs and STAR program.
403-5 Worker training on occupational  
health and safetyPeople – Environmental, Health, Safety, and SecuritySafety training is performed by employees on at least an annual 
basis and is also integrated into a daily practice with tool talks and pre-shift huddles. We have held safety days at sites where the site will spend the entire day on safety-related activities. Our leader -
ship and Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security professionals  
receive continuing education.
403-6 Promotion of worker health
People – Human Capital
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupa -
tional health and safety impacts directly linked by business relationshipsPeople – Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security
TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES
403-9 Work-related injuries People – Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security47
APPENDIX: GRI INDEX
Disclosure Number Description  Location and Notes
GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 2016
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and  
its boundaryAbout Our Report
103-2 The management approach and  
its componentsPeople – Human Capital
103-3 Evaluation of the management  
approachPeople – Human Capital
TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies  
and employeesPeople – Human Capital
GRI 413: LOCAL COMMUNITIES 2016GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and  
its boundaryAbout Our Report
103-2 The management approach and  
its componentsPeople – Corporate Giving and Community Involvement
103-3 Evaluation of the management  
approachPeople – Corporate Giving and Community Involvement
TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES
413-1 Operations with local community  
engagement, impact assessments,  
and development programsPeople – Corporate Giving and Community Involvement48
APPENDIX: SASB INDEX
SASB INDEX 
This report reviewed the SASB framework as one of the key inputs for our material ESG topics. The below metrics are aligned with the SASB 
framework for the chemical industry, where Balchem is mapped by SASB. For more information on SASB standards, visit https://www.sasb.
org/standards-overview/.
Code Description  Location and Notes
SUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
RT-CH-110a.1 Gross global Scope 1 emissions, percent -
age covered under emissions-limiting 
regulationsMeasuring Our Progress and Appendix
RT-CH-110a.2 Discussion of long-term and short-term strategy or plan to manage Scope 1 emis -
sions, emissions reduction targets, and  an analysis of performance against  those targetsPlanet – Energy Management
WATER MANAGEMENT
RT-CH-140a.1 (1) Total water withdrawn, (2) total water consumed, percentage of each in regions with high or extremely high baseline  
water stressMeasuring Our Progress and Appendix49
APPENDIX: SASB INDEX
Code Description  Location and Notes
SUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (CONTINUED)
RT-CH-140a.3 Description of water management risks 
and discussion of strategies and practices 
to mitigate those risksPlanet – Water Management
HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT
RT-CH-150a.1 Amount of hazardous waste generated, 
percentage recycledMeasuring Our Progress  and Appendix
COMMUNITY RELATIONS
RT-CH-210a.1 Discussion of engagement processes to 
manage risks and opportunities associat -
ed with community interestsPeople – Corporate Giving and Community Involvement
WORKFORCE HEALTH AND SAFETY
RT-CH-320a.1 (1) Total recordable incident rate (TRIR) 
and (2) fatality rate for (a) direct employ -
ees and (b) contract employeesMeasuring Our Progress
RT-CH-320a.2 Description of efforts to assess, monitor, 
and reduce exposure of employees and 
contract workers to long-term (chronic) 
health risksPeople – Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security
MANAGEMENT OF THE LEGAL AND REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT
RT-CH-530a.1 Discussion of corporate positions related 
to government regulations and/or policy 
proposals that address environmental 
and social factors affecting the industryProfit – Our Governance50
APPENDIX: SDG INDEX
SDG INDEX 
All United Nations Member States adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development in 2015, providing a path for peace and prosperity 
for people and the planet. The 17 SDGs are an urgent call for action by all countries, and support from the private sector is an important piece to achieving these goals. This report reviewed the SDGs as one of the key inputs for our priority ESG topics. Our priority ESG topics relate to the following SDGs. For more information on the SDGs, visit https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/sdgs.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS INDEX
PEOPLE
Animal Nutrition
Food Availability
Human Nutrition and Health
Human Capital
Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security
Human CapitalCommunity Involvement
PLANET
Water Management
Energy Management
Waste Management
Safety and Environmental Stewardship of Chemicals and Genetically Modified Organisms
Materials Sourcing Practices (e.g., palm oil, coffee, cocoa)
Food Safety and Health Concerns
Energy Management
United Nations Global Compact Participant
