 
 Making the World a Healthier Place 
OUR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2 
  
    
 
          
 
     
 
 
 OUR VISION 
We are committed to making the world a healthier place. 
As we look to the future, our two sustainability objectives remain   our accomplishments – most notably our ability to impact 1.4 
the same:  billion people around the world in 2021 by developing human   
nutrition products and supplementing the animals those humans eat   • Provide innovative solutions for the health and nutritional needs  
with our vital nutrients. Our Sustainability Framework focuses on the of the world  
most critical Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) topics rel -
• Operate as strong stewards of our employees, customers, share -evant to our business and stakeholders. This report highlights our 
holders, and communities (our stakeholders) with excellence   efforts within three pillars: People, Planet, and Profit. We welcome 
Each and every day, Balchem delivers trusted solutions that   you to join our sustainability journey as we help make the world a 
enhance  health and nutrition through science. We are proud of  healthier place.
Our Sustainability Framework 
CULTURECOMPANY 
EMPLOYEES,CUSTOMERS, SHAREHOLDERS&COMMUNITIESOPERATEWITHEXCELLENCE AS STRONGSTEWARDSOFOUR PROVIDEINNOVATIVESOLUTIONSFORTHEHEALTH& NUTRITIONALNEEDSOFTHEWORLD 
Making 
the World 
a Healthier 
Place PEOPLE 
PLANET PROFIT 
1.4 Billion People Reached in 2021 
The total number of people impacted is calculated by measuring the annual consumption 
of protein and the daily recommended doses of minerals, essential nutrients, and vitamins. 3 
CONTENTS 
TABLE OF 
MESSAGE FROM OUR CHAIRMAN, 
CEO, AND PRESIDENT 
ABOUT OUR REPORT 
MEASURING OUR PROGRESS 
PEOPLE 
PLANET 
PROFIT 
APPENDIX 1
2
3
4
5
6
74 
1 
MESSAGE FROM OUR CHAIRMAN, 
CEO, AND PRESIDENT 5 
 
  
        
  
    
 
 
     
       
 
 
      
 
 
  
 
  
 
   
   
 
 
 
  
 
   
   
 
 
 
  
   
    MESSAGE FROM OUR CHAIRMAN, 
CEO, AND PRESIDENT 
Sustainability is at the heart of our vision 
to make the world a healthier place. 
TO OUR EMPLOYEES, CUSTOMERS, SHAREHOLDERS, AND COMMUNITIES: 
For over 50 years, Balchem has developed this report. Our continued commitment to 
innovative solutions for the nutritional the UN Global Compact is another step in our 
needs of the world. We do this while oper- continuous improvement journey relative 
ating our facilities and businesses in ways to both our corporate social responsibilities 
that meet the expectations of our employ- and our higher purpose of making the world 
ees, customers, shareholders, and com - a healthier place.  
munities. In 2021, we were faced with a As demonstrated by signing the CEO Action 
very challenging macroeconomic envi-Pledge, I am committed to advancing diver -
ronment, including the ongoing pandemic, sity, inclusion, and belonging at Balchem. 
global supply chain disruptions, significant Here at Balchem, we continue to advance our 
input cost inflation, as well as a tight labor role in improving human and animal health. 
market. I am extremely proud of how the As you will read in this report, a study con -
company has responded to these challenges ducted at Cornell University confirmed the 
and proven its resilience and ability to exe -critical role choline plays in infant cognitive 
cute in this environment. 
Balchem’s sustainability efforts are fully inte-
grated into our business strategy, which 
remains unchanged as we continue to focus on our two main objectives: providing inno -
vative solutions for the health and nutritional needs of the world and operating with excel -
lence as strong stewards of our stakehold -
ers. Our areas of priority are included in this report and remain focused on our three sus -
tainability pillars: People, Planet, and Profit. 
In 2021, Balchem celebrated the one-year 
anniversary of our commitment to the United Nations (UN) Global Compact, confirming 
our alignment with the Ten Principles on human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. We are proud to support several of the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We have made good progress towards our 2030 goals for both energy and water usage reduction, as further detailed in development. Another study, an animal feed -
ing trial in dairy cattle, validated choline’s importance in both milk production efficiency and the maintenance of metabolic health. 
Animal Nutrition 
and Health: 
Supplies science-based animal feed nutritional ingredients and solutions for livestock wellness and productivity Specialty 
Products: 
Promotes human health by ensuring the safe and timely supply of critical sterilization technology to the medical and food industries, and supplies chelated materials to the micronutrient agricul-tural market Human Nutrition 
and Health: 
Provides chelated miner-als, the essential nutri-ent choline, vitamins, microencapsulation tech-nology, and food ingre-dients for the supple-ment, beverage, dairy, and bakery markets OUR THREE BUSINESS SEGMENTS 
6 
 
  
 
 
 
     
  
        
 
  
 
  
  MESSAGE FROM OUR CHAIRMAN, 
CEO, AND PRESIDENT 
In 2021, we took steps to accelerate our prog -
ress by establishing a strategic plan to help 
guide our short-, mid-, and long-term goals 
in an e
ffort to foster  a diverse  and  inclusive 
culture in which everyone at Balchem feels 
welcomed, valued, and appreciated as well 
as inspire our external stakeholders to share 
our vision. 
I am proud of the advancements made by our 
Balchem Helping Hands initiatives. We contin -
ued our partnership with Vitamin Angels and 
expanded our employee matching donation 
pro
gram  to help  support  over  50 different 
charitable organizations in our communities. 
Our employees found unique ways to vol-
unteer during the pandemic that made an 
impact at numerous organizations such as 
food banks, pet shelters, schools, and youth 
sports programs. 
We were very pleased to elect Ms. Kathy Fish 
to fill a vacancy on the Board of Directors in 
2021. Ms. Fish recently retired from the posi-
tion of Chief Research, Development and 
Innovation  Officer  at The  Procter  & Gamble 
Company. Ms. Fish brings important new 
product development and direct-to-consumer 
expertise to our Board, along with her inter -
national business acumen and experience in 
driving an innovation culture. 
In 2021, Balchem was named one of “Ameri -
ca’s Most Responsible Companies” by News -
week for the second consecutive year. This 
list, compiled by Newsweek in partnership with Statista Inc., recognizes the most respon -
sible companies in the U.S. across a variety of industries. We are proud of our efforts and continue to take many other import -
ant steps toward our journey to constantly improve our corporate social responsibil -
ities and are pleased with this recognition by Newsweek. In addition to progressing our sustainability objectives, we had a strong year financially, delivering record results while advancing our strategic initiatives. We continue to see healthy overall demand for our product offer -
ings. Balchem is well positioned within the markets we serve and we look forward to another growth year for the company in 2022. 
I am proud of the contributions of all our 
stakeholders and are thankful for your interest in Balchem and our journey to ensure the long-term sustainability of our business and vision. 
TED HARRIS CHAIRMAN, CEO, AND PRESIDENT 
7 
 2
ABOUT 
OUR REPORT 8 
Priority ESG Topics 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
       
  
  ABOUT OUR REPORT 
To solve today’s challenges and shape a better tomorrow, Balchem operates responsibly and provides solutions for the health and nutritional needs of the world. 
Our sustainability report highlights the pro -
gress made over the last year. The report is the result of a process of engagement with a diverse group of internal and external stake -
holders. Each stakeholder was engaged to understand their sustainability interests and concerns as well as capture Balchem’s efforts and achievements in key areas of sustainability. 
Our Board’s Corporate Governance & Nomi -
nating (CG&N) Committee, in accordance 
with its responsibility to review the com -
pany’s activities and practices regarding ESG matters, oversees our sustainability-related practices and monitors the company’s progress in this area. 
Each year, we assess our view of priority ESG 
subject areas in the context of an annual risk assessment, recalibrating as necessary. 
PEOPLE 
PLANET PROFIT 
PEOPLE Our process includes: 
• Convening  a  cross-functional,  executive-led  
steering  committee  with  representatives  
from business units, finance, investor  
relations,  human  resources,  research  and 
development   (R&D),   internal   audit,   supply  
chain, and operations
• Ensuring strong oversight of our ESG  
program through our Corporate Social  
Responsibility Management Team, which  
is comprised of employees from all com -
pany segments who are Director level  
and above, as well as the CEO Sustainabil -
ity Steering Committee and Sustainability  
Reporting Leader
• Reviewing progress with managementquarterly, an operating committee semi-  
annually, and our Board annually • Engag i
ng in ongoing interviews with exec -
utives and functional leaders about rele -
vant sustainability topics
• Discussing with some of our largest share -
holders and customers
• Reviewing  leading  standards  and  frame -
works, such as the Global Reporting  
Initiative (GRI), Sustainability Accounting  
Standards Board (SASB), and the UN  
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. Unless otherwise noted, the scope of the metrics and information presented in this report is equivalent to those considered in our Annual Financial Report and includes the operations  
of all subsidiaries. These metrics re flect the 
results of 12 months of operations ending on December 31, 2021. 
Human Nutrition and Health 
Animal Nutrition 
Food A
vailability 
Food Safety and 
Health Concerns 
Human 
Capital 
Env
ironmental, 
Health, Safety, and Security 
Community 
Involvement 
PLANET 
Materials 
Sourcing 
Ene
rgy 
Management 
Was
te 
Management 
Safety and Environmental Stewardship of Chemicals and Genetically Modified 
Organisms 
Water 
Management 
United Nations Global 
Compact Participant 
PROFIT Foundation Governance Risk Management 9
OUR 2030 ESG GOALS
EMISSIONS   
REDUCTION
•New Technologies:  Alternate
methods of drying
•Product Reformulation:  Reduce
drying with product design
•Alternative Energy:  Solar energy
projects
•Operational Improvements:
Boiler e fficiency 
projects
•Green Energy:  Expand purchases
of renewable energy
Metric Tons of CO2e  
(Thousands)41.1
Total GHG  
Reductions76.8 
CO2e2020 GHG 
Emiss i
ons
New  
Technologies
Alternative  
EnergyProduct  
Reformulation
Operational  
Improvements
Green  
Energy
57.6 
CO2e2030 GHG 
Emissi
ons
WATER  
CONSERVA
TION
•Water Reduction and Recycling:
Eliminate “once through” coolingwater systems
•Cleaning E fficiencies:  Improved
water utilization through Clean-in-Place (CIP) Systems
•New Technologies: Invest in water
efficient technology improvements
•Operational Improvements:  Con -
densate recovery systemsBalchem commits to 
reducing our global 
water use by
Cubic Meters (CBM)  
of Water (Thousands)2,200
Total Water  
Reductions4,038 
CBM2020 Water 
Withdrawal
Water Reuse & 
Recycling
Cleaning  
Efficiencies
New  
Technologies
Operational  
Improvements
3,029 
CBM2030 Water 
Wi
thdrawal1,191
Volume  
GrowthBalchem commits 
to reducing our GHG 
emissions use by
25%25%21.9
Volume  
Growth
25%25%
10 
 3
MEASURING 
OUR PROGRESS 11
MEASURING OUR PROGRESS
Making  
the World  
a Healthier 
Place
1.4 billion  people  
reached per year11.4 billion  animals reached  
per year27.9%  of revenue from products 
developed in the past five years
0.99 total recordable injury  
rate (TRIR)3.71 GJ/ton of energy intensity 
(GJ of energy per ton of  
product produced) 
77,281 CO2e metric tons of scope 1  
and scope 2 GHG emissions$799M  total revenue
34%  hourly employee turnover
13%  salary employee turnover12.29 CBM  of water intensity (cubic 
meters of water withdrawal per 
metric ton of product produced)
4.2M CBM of total water  
withdrawal0.07%  water withdrawal from  
regions with high or extremely 
high baseline water stress$189.8M  adjusted EBITDA**
76%  males , 24%  females  
employee diversity99%  of hazardous waste* reused  
or recycled
75%  of hazardous material  
suppliers audited in the last  
3 years$96.1M  GAAP net earnings
$2.94  GAAP earnings per share
80%  of R&D focused on health  
and nutrition 100%  of palm oil sourced through 
Roundtable on Sustainable Palm 
Oil (RSPO)
35%  of raw materials come from  
renewable resources130%  free cas h flow conversion 
100%  of manufacturing  
sites with local community 
engagement e fforts0 product recalls29.8%  five-year total shareholder  
return (TSR) vs Russell 2000 IndexPEOPLE PLANET PROFIT
1.4 billion  people  
reached per year11.4 billion  animals reached  
per year27.9%  of revenue from products 
developed in the pas t five years
Note: Scorecard metrics represent priority focus areas, but additional metrics may be disclosed to satisfy analyst needs. The number of people reached is calculated by the daily recom -
mended dose of vitamins and annual consumption of protein in 2021. *Balchem defines hazardous materials as ethylene oxide, trimethylamine, hydrochloric acid, anhydrous ammonia,
propylene oxide, and carbon disulfide. **Adjusted EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, other expenses/income, taxes, depreciation, amortization, stock-based compensation,acquisition-related expenses, indemnification settlements, legal settlements, and the fair valuation of acquired inventory.12 
4 
PEOPLE 13 
  
 
 
 
 
  
      
   
   
     
 
     
 
 
      
 
 PEOPLE 
“Building better brains and supporting a healthier population, 
both physically and mentally, starts with better nutrition and 
industry-wide innovation.” 
— JIM HYDE, SVP-GM OF HUMAN NUTRITION AND HEALTH 
HUMAN NUTRITION AND HEALTH 
Consumers around the world have a renewed awareness of the importance of nutrition and its impact on overall health and self-care. They view good health holistically and believe that it includes healthy relation -
ships, behaviors, habits, and practices which support the mind, body, and soul. Balchem helps our customers deliver food, beverage, and dietary supplement solutions that meet consumer needs as they look for new ways to live healthier lives. 
Balchem provides solutions that delight and 
nourish, from indulgent and sensory experi -
ences to the rigors of targeted essen -
tial nutrition. 
BUILDING BETTER BRAINS AND A 
HEALTHIER POPULATION 
Building better brains and supporting a 
healthier population starts with proper nutrition from conception. In 2021, Cornell University researchers published a paper in The Federation of American Societies of Experimental Biology (FASEB) Journal that confirmed the profound and long-lasting 
role that choline plays in infant cognitive development. This groundbreaking new research showed that pregnant women who consumed more than twice the rec -
ommended dose of choline during preg -
nancy had children who demonstrated significant cognitive benefits through early childhood. 
This paper is a significant follow-up to a 2018 
Cornell publication about the same study cohort. The prior publication had shown that greater choline intake during pregnancy led to improved cognitive performance in infants  
born out of those pregnancies. This most re -
cent  paper  highlights  that  cognitive  improve -
ments were both significant and enduring in those same children at the age of seven.
Balchem’s VitaCholine
® was important in the 
Cornell study, as it was the supplementary   
intervention in the original Cornell study    
subjects’  diets.  This  is  the  first  clinical  invest-   
igation to demonstrate that the brain-   
boosting  bene fits  of  VitaCholine® result   
in improved performance and attention in     
early childhood.
According to the Cornell researchers, even 
after seven years and without additional in -
terim  choline  supplementation,  the  children  
born from the higher choline intake (930 mg of choline per day) pregnancies maintained a  significant  cognitive  performance  advan -
tage  over  the  children  from  the  lower  choline    
intake (480 mg of choline per day) group. Fur -
thermore, their cognitive performance out -
paced the lower choline intake group in tests that were longer and more difficult. 
Higher maternal intakes of VitaCholine
® sig-
nificantly improved children’s ability to stay 
focused and on task, even during long, chal - lengin
g ass  ignments.  The cogni  tive bo  ost  
from VitaCholine® observed in infants con -
tinues through at least school age, when  
childre  n be  gin to expan  d the use of their 
brains in educational settings. This signifi -
cant research is poised to have an important   
impact on public health policy.
 Nine out of 10 pregnant women do not 
consume even the base level of choline  
recommended for them. To realize these newly-  
evident benefits for child cognitive de -  
velopment, pregnant women will seek   
supplem  ents and   fort  ified fo  od produc  ts to 
close the sig  nificant cho  line gap in  their  diets.   
Many prenat  al vi  tamin m  anufa  cturers ar  e  
beginning to reformulate with higher levels 
of choline and these study findings are likely  
to continue that trend.
14 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
     
     
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
     
PEOPLE 
The American Medical Association rec-
ommends choline inclusion in prenatal 
vitami
ns because of the growing body of 
evidence that supports choline’s benefits 
throughout the human lifespan. This study 
presents exciting findings for mothers-to-be, 
who can give their children an even better 
start in life just by adding VitaCholine® to a 
balanced diet. 
INNOVATING O PENLY A ND INDUSTRY-WIDE 
The focus on creating healthier options con -
tinued 
through the open invitation to par -
ticipate  in the Balchem  Human  Nutrition  & 
Health TrenDish™ Innovation Summit. 
Through this initiative and more, Balchem 
will continue to develop concepts for nutri-
tional food, beverage, and dietary sup -
plements that promote cognitive health, 
wellness, and emotional well-being through 
food that nourishes the mind and body. 
Balchem is furthering its commitment to 
innovation by seeking ingredients with pur -
pose. We are interested in finding novel tech-
nologies, ingredients, and products that can 
be used with, or incorporated into, our stra -
tegic product line o ffering. This approach will 
increase the level of collaboration between 
peers in the B2B space to bring the most 
relevant innovations forward in both the die-
tary supplement and food and beverage 
space. Our transparency and clear direction 
will hel
p suppliers  focus  their  efforts  in key 
areas that create synergy with Balchem’s 
core technologies and areas of focus. 
EMPOWERING FUTURE GENERATIONS 
Balchem entered into an agreement with 
the best-selling author of the children’s book series Ninja Life Hacks ™ to secure strategic 
partners for branded food products that pro -
mote a healthy emotional and physical rela -
tionship with eating. The product concepts range from healthy food and dietary supple -
ments for cognitive health to ice cream and frozen desserts. The concepts continue to be developed for speci fic partners and retailers. 
Ninja Life Hacks ™, the breakout children’s 
publishing property, is dedicated to empow -
erment, it promotes emotional intelligence, and gives children the skills to cultivate a growth mindset and develop con fidence and 
grit. In its full first year, parents and children 
embraced the self-published book series with almost one million books sold and a “#1 Best Seller” accreditation across nine catego -
ries. The author, Mary Nhin, who is a mother of three young boys, was inspired to create Ninja Life Hacks ™ after watching her chil -
dren’s daily encounters with life emotions. 
The three primary areas where Balchem’s 
food technology will be utilized to bring the Ninja Life Hacks ™ brand to life are: Brain 
Power, Emotional Well-Being, and Immune Health & Nutrition. Balchem will work with their partners to bring these branded snacks to market. The Ninja Life Hacks ™ characters 
assist in building avenues for conversation with the ultimate goal being to bring emotional and physical health discussions to the kitchen, lunchroom, and dinner table. 
Author Mary Nhin says, “A healthy relation -
ship with food is key to children’s mental and 
emotional well-being. The combination of Balchem’s unique food technology and fea -
tured Ninja Life Hacks ™ characters will help 
foster this positive relationship.” 
Together, we will take the science of nutrition 
and use the Ninja Life Hacks ™ characters to 
make it easily understandable for kids and parents. Our partners innovating in kid-focused products can leverage our collabora -
tion and science-backed ingredients to create products that resonate with parents looking to nourish and delight their kids every day. 
15 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
      
        
 
   
  
  
 
  
   
      
 
 
 
 
 
  PEOPLE 
ADVANCING AGRICULTURE'S SUSTAINABILITY THROUGH ANIMAL NUTRITION 
The Animal Nutrition & Health (ANH) team is 
dedicated to meeting the nutritional needs of both production and companion animals. Though 2021 presented many challenges with continued COVID-19 implications and supply chain issues, we maintained our focus on help -
ing global agriculture meet the challenge of feeding an ever-growing population sustainably. 
TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENTS 
As a leader in animal feed technologies, 
Balchem is driving the innovations that will change our future. We are helping livestock producers accomplish more with less and discovering unique products that will pro -
duce food most efficiently, all to move us toward a more secure and sustainable future. 
Our line of encapsulated products delivers 
nutrients more precisely and efficiently to meet ruminant animals’ nutritional needs. Reducing input and minimizing animal waste optimizes production. 
Balchem’s ANH team started the year with 
the successful launch of ReaShure
®-XC Pre -
cision Release Choline into the European, Middle Eastern, and African markets. With a new proprietary and concentrated core, ReaShure
®-XC reduces our carbon footprint 
through lowered transportation costs and reduced emissions while delivering proven production benefits to the cow. 
Our AminoShure™-XM Precision Release 
Methionine helps reduce the protein required in cattle diets by targeting the deliv -
ery of methionine to the lower gut, where it can be absorbed and utilized by the cow. This impacts our planet in many ways. First, by reducing the amount of plant protein fed, we can effectively reduce the amount of land required to produce milk. Next, by reducing the amount of nitrogen fed in the form of pro -
tein, we can effectively reduce the amount of nitrogen excreted into our environment. 
NitroShure™ Precision Release Nitro -
gen helps cows utilize homegrown forages 
more efficiently, reducing the amount of land 
required to support profitable milk production 
and the amount of nitrogen that is excreted 
into the environment. 
SUPPORTING UNDERSERVED SEGMENTS 
In the U.S. today, one in six children are 
facing hunger and one in four are concerned about whether or when they will receive their next meal. Local food banks and government programs are working hard to fill the gap, but the need continues to grow. Fresh food, including dairy products, meat, and produce, are in great demand but are difficult for most community programs to handle. A lack of 
Balchem’s Kooler Kids team with a new refrigerator they donated to a local food pantry Balchem prides itself on supplying robust nutrient solutions to dairy operators around the world. 16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
      
  
   
 ” 
’
-
-PEOPLE 
refrigeration limits the donations that can be 
accepted and the amount of product that can be delivered to those in need. 
Balchem’s Kooler Kids program started in 
2021 to help fill the gap in our local commu -
nities. Working with Dairy Farmers of Amer -
ica (DFA) through their DFA Cares program, Kooler Kids helps supply refrigeration units to local food banks. Throughout 2021, Kooler Kids was instrumental in placing refrigerators in 15 locations across 10 states. The program generated more than $200,000 in funds to help fill those refrigerators with dairy pro -
ducts, meat, and produce, which repre -
sents more than three million servings of milk per year. 
Balchem ANH is also a supporter of the Dairy 
Girl Network. Through the Dairy Girl Net -
work, women in the industry can connect with other passionate supporters enhancing their professional development. The group provides a welcoming environment for idea sharing and growth. 
Through our Real Faces of Dairy initiative 
and Facebook page, which now has over 70,000 followers, Balchem is bridging the gap between the dairy industry and consum -
ers. This program is helping each group gain an understanding of and appreciation for one another. 
EDUCATING THE 
INDUSTRY 
Balchem  ANH  has taken  a lead  role in 
educating  nutritionists  and producers 
by developing the “Real Science Lecture 
Series” and “Real Science Exchange" 
podcast  series.  Providing  the industry 
with  access  to the top scientists  and 
researchers  in the sustainability  and 
methane emissions segments has been 
an important goal for both programs. 
Balchem's ANH business is committed 
to making the world a healthier place by 
developing  science  based  solutions  to 
help sustainably feed a growing global 
population and to serve the communi- 
ties and people that count on us. 
Recording of the “Real Science Exchange” podcast 17 
 
 
      
   
 
       
       
 
     
 -
–
–
-
-PEOPLE 
FOOD SAFETY 
At Balchem, we work to continuously 
delight our customers with the products we manufacture through a focus on product safety and quality. We use a robust supplier approval program to assess and approve materials that are a good match for both our process and our end customers’ requirements. 
We use the knowledge of our people who are 
skilled in different regulatory environments – 
including food, dietary supplements, and pharma – to find efficiencies and drive best-in-class practices across our quality management systems. Cross-site internal quality audits, as well as independent third-party audits, verify that our programs are robust and drive continuous improvement efforts. External audits include Safe Quality Food (SQF), United States Pharmacopeia (USP), International Safe Feed/Safe Food (FAMI- QS), ISO, and more. 
We invest in improving the quality of our products and our food safety program on an ongoing basis. In 2021, we completed the scheduled implementation of a single enterprise resource planning (ERP) system across all sites. This allowed us to begin gathering and reporting standardized Quality Key Performance Metrics (KPIs). In 2022, we will begin to roll out an updated Laboratory Information Management (LIM) system which will better support data review and stat -
istical trending in real time. We will also move the Corrective and Preventive Action (CAPA), Customer Complaint, and Supplier Non-Conformance tracking systems into the common ERP system. 
Ogden, Utah Quality Lab Faribault, Minnesota Quality Lab We use the knowledge of our people who are skilled in different regula -
tory environments – including food, 
dietary supplements, and pharma – 
to find efficiencies and drive best-in-class practices across our quality management systems.18 
 
     
 
 
 
  
 
 
     
 
  
    
 
 
 
 PEOPLE 
RAW MATERIAL SUPPLIERS 
The global supply chain disruptions that occurred throughout 2021 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic illustrate the need for a robust and sustainable supply chain. Without close monitoring, constant interaction, and a thorough qualification of our raw mate -
rial suppliers, success in managing today’s turbulent markets would be uncertain. Our supplier quality review and audit program along with adherence to the requirements in our Supplier Code of Conduct, established a foundation that helped us continue to grow. 
Balchem has a thorough raw material quality 
sourcing approval program. The program includes an evaluation of the supplier’s qual -
ity program and the material being supplied, as well as verification of the supplier’s pre -
ventative approach to food safety risks. In the food safety evaluation process, we con -
sider how the product is made, how it is dis -
tributed, and its intended use. 
As such, Balchem maintains ongoing meas -
ures of key quality performance metrics, 
including supplier issues, customer com -
plaints, first-pass quality tracking, corrective action, and completion and follow-up site audits, as required. We take customer feed -
back seriously and track customer com -
plaints, complaint investigations, corrective actions, and customer communication of complaint resolution. Supply chain headwinds of 2021 were partic -
ularly challenging for internationally-sourced raw materials. For this reason, working with responsible suppliers is essential to a stable supply. Balchem’s Supplier Code of Conduct includes a section requiring suppliers to protect human rights, including labor con -
ditions, fair treatment for employees, and compensation standards. We believe that working with suppliers that share our com -
mitment to human rights helps to make our supply chain stronger. 
Balchem’s Supplier Code of Conduct HOW WE MANAGE 
QUALITY THROUGHOUT
 OUR SUPPLY CHAIN 
STEP 1: RAW MATERIAL SOURCING, 
EVALUATION, AND APPROVAL 
STEP 2: SITE QUALITY ASSURANCE 
PROGRAM AND MANUFACTURING 
STEP 3: TRANSPORTATION 
SUPPLIER QUALIFICATION 
19 
  
 
 
     
 
 
  
   
      
      
   
     
 
 
       
      
 
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
 
 
’
-PEOPLE 
Balchem is committed to a diverse and inclusive culture 
where everyone feels welcomed, valued, and appreciated. 
HUMAN CAPITAL 
We are driven by the collective capabilities of 
our dedicated employees, and we recognize that it is because of their hard work, talent, and commitment that we continue to deliver outstanding results for our various stakeholders. That’s why we provide a work -
place that fosters a collaborative, supportive, and inclusive culture where everyone feels welcomed, accepted, and empowered to be their best. 
With the right tools, we believe that our 
employees can accomplish anything. The continuing professional development of our employees plays a key role in enhancing success in business as well as in life. Indi -
vidual growth and advancement requires continuous professional learning and it’s what keeps us engaged and motivated. This continued experience ensures that our employees will be able to make valuable contributions to our colleagues, customers, and our company as a whole. Training is facilitated through our online system and features employee self-service training mod -
ules that verify and document the com -
pletion and comprehension of assigned or required training. This system provides training for job-specific technical knowledge, regulatory requirements, and company poli -
cies, including Balchem’s Code of Conduct 
and those related to anti-harassment and discrimination, foreign corrupt practices, antitrust, and various other compliance topics. 
To ensure the development of Balchem’s 
future leaders in 2021, we expanded our lead -
ership program offerings through eCornell (Cornell University). Balchem’s partnership with eCornell, a leader in online learning, contributes to our leadership development efforts through their leadership- and expert-led courses. All Balchem leaders at the Director level and above had the opportunity to complete Counteracting Unconscious Bias Training, which is one of the core courses in eCornell’s Diversity and Inclusion Certificate Program. This investment in our leaders will enhance our organization’s ability to further develop a culture that values diversity and embraces inclusion. Additionally, our female leaders have an opportunity to take exec -
utive leadership courses with eCornell prof -
essors and other female leaders. This learning opportunity creates a unique com -
munity of female leaders and helps cult -
ivate competencies and skills for career advancement throughout Balchem. 
Our sponsored Employee Continuing Learn -
ing Program offers a broad base of assist -
ance for employees, including learning and 
development courses. Employees have 
ac
cess to healthy lifestyle discounts through 
our Wellness Center, as well as debt, legal, 
and financial counseling. Peak Performance  
Tr
aining  and multiple  online  services  and 
courses  enable  our employees  to choose 
their own learning paths and work to achieve 
their  future  goals  for education,  finances, 
and overall well-being. 
Around  the world, Balchem  employees, 
te
ams, and businesses are building bridges in 
our communities.  Balchem  works  with  local 
schools  to highlight  various  career  oppor-
tunities  or local  industry  councils  to collab-
orate and share best human capital practices 
within  our industries.  We provide  financial 
support  for employees  to pursue  degree 
programs, and on an annual basis, we award 
scholarships  to support  the education  of 
employees’  children  through  the Balchem 
Sons and Daughters Scholarship Program. 
BALCHEM SONS 
AND DAUGHTERS 
SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM 
Since the program's inception in 2005, 
Balchem has proudly awarded $158,000 
in scholarships to children of employees 
to help them achieve their educational 
goals. In 2021, we awarded 10 scholar- 
ships totaling $20,000. 
20
PEOPLE
BALCHEM W OMEN’S IMP ACT NE TWORK 
(BWIN), EM PLOYEE T URNOVER, EM PLOYEE 
DIVERSITY, AND MORE 
We are committed to a company culture that 
embraces diversity, inclusion, and belonging 
(DIB). In 2021, Balchem partnered with a 
diversity and inclusion consultant, Welcome 
Change, to help build short- and long-term 
comprehensive strategies to accelerate our 
progress  and define  inspiring  goals.  One 
short-term objective was to brand our DIB  
efforts as “Belonging  at Balchem”  to com-
municate that it is part of the fabric of our 
company. Also, our Chairman and CEO’s com-
mitment to the CEO Action Pledge to advance 
diversity and inclusion in the workplace sets 
a clear tone at the top of our organization.
Over the past few years, Balchem’s work-
force has become increasingly diverse. For 
example, since 2016, gender and ethnic 
diversity has increased by 9% and 25%, 
respectively. Female representation in 
leadership roles* has risen by 41% over 
the p
ast five years.  Additionally,  gender 
diversity on our Board has risen by 25% in 
the same period. While we are pleased to 
see meaningful progress, Balchem remains 
committed 
to utilizing our newly-developed 
strategies to improve diversity and building 
an inclusive culture throughout our company.
Balchem also supports employee-led resource 
groups, where employees with similar back-
grounds and interests can find peer support, 
receive mentorship from senior members, 
and develop their careers. Balchem 
Women’s Im
pact Network (BWIN) o ffers an 
environment for all women at Balchem to 
feel empow
ered and have an opportunity to 
thrive both professionally and personally. 
The BWIN group meets regularly and shares 
a wide array of topics addressing leadership, 
business success, and networking.
In fiscal year  2021,  inclusion  goals  were 
formally introduced as part of our perfor-
mance expectations. All managers received 
performance  feedback  on their  efforts  in 
fo
stering an inclusive climate within their 
*Leadership positions include employees at the level of Director and aboverespective teams as we strive to build greater 
awareness and  accountability. Balchem’s 
annual review process is also closely aligned 
with a formal succession planning and talent 
review  process  designed  to identify  and 
develop  the next  generation  of leaders. 
The results  of our performance,  talent,  and 
succession  planning  practices  are reviewed 
annually by Balchem’s leadership  team  and 
the Board.
We are committed  to paying  fair wages  and 
bene fits to employees around the world. For 
example, our U.S. hourly employees start at 
a $15 minimum wage and our comprehensive 
bene fit package  includes  medical,  dental, 
vision, prescription benefits, and a 401k 
matching program. Bal chem provides finan-  
cial support for health and wellness initi-
atives, such as online financi al wellness 
content, sponsored  weight loss programs, 
and subsidized  gym  memberships.  We also 
provide generous time- off and  leave bene fits, 
which are critical to ensuring our employees 
can enjoy  a healthy  balance  between  work 
and family time.
Established:  20
18
Vision:  To foster a diverse and inclusive 
culture in which everyone feels welcomed, 
valued, and appreciated, while inspiring our  
external stakeholders to share our vision.
Mission:  To live by our core values and 
hold ourselves accountable to building  
and nurturing a diverse and inclu-  
sive culture.Current Membership:  167
WOMEN IN 
LEADERSHIP2016 LEADERSHIP
21.2%
FEMALE
2021 LEADERSHIP
29.9%
FEMALE
WOMEN IN LEADERSHIP 
ROLES ROSE 41%  
SINCE 2016EMPLOYEE 
RETENTION85.8%
SALARIED
77.7%
HOURLY2021 RETENTION RATE
ETHNIC DIVERSITY 
ROSE 25%  
SINCE 201641%41% 25%25%21 
 PEOPLE 
2020-2021 GENDER DIVERSITY COMPARISON 
MALE EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY – GENDER FEMALE 
76.2% 2021 
2020 23.8% 
76.6% 23.4% 
EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY – SALARIED 
67.7% 2021 
65.2% 2020 
EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY – HOURLY 
81.9% 2021 
83.6% 2020 
LEADERSHIP POSITIONS* 
70.1% 2021 
74.2% 2020 
BOARD OF DIRECTOR POSITIONS 
75.0% 2021 
87.0% 2020 32.3% 
34.8% 
18.1% 
16.4% 
29.9% 
25.8% 
25.0% 
13.0% 
50% 
OF OUR COMPANY IS 
FEMALE, EXCLUDING 
*Leadership positions include employees at the level of Director and aboveSUPPLY CHAIN. 22 
 
 
 
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PEOPLE 
Protecting the safety, health, and welfare of our employees 
and communities is the right thing to do. 
ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH, SAFETY, 
AND SECURITY 
WHY WE’RE SO COMMITTED TO HEALTH 
AND SAFETY 
Ensuring the safety of our employees, cus -
tomers, and the communities where we 
work is fundamental to maintaining a lic -
ense to operate. Exceptional safety perfor -
mance can lower business costs related to missed work, productivity impacts, and workers’ compensation. It has also been proven that safe workplaces build employee morale, reduce absenteeism, and result in higher-quality products that enhance bus -
iness performance. Our current leadership has laid a strong foundation, making Balchem a high-safety performance com -
pany. Year over year, we strive to improve the safety of our colleagues, contractors, customers, and host communities. 
HOW WE PERFORMED 
The year began with nine recordable 
injuries during the first 150 days and ended with 150 straight days of injury-free performance. We finished 2021 with 14 injuries and a Total Recordable Rate (TRR) of 0.99, compared to a 2020 TRR of 1.04 with 15 injuries. The chart on the top 
of this page displays our historical TRR performance since 2019. HISTORICAL TOTAL RECORDABLE RATE (TRR) AND INJURY TRENDS 
30 1.50 
25 1.32 
1.25 1.04 0.9920 1.00 
15 17 0.75 
10 15 0.50 
5 14 
0.25 
0 0 
2019 2020 2021 
Number of Injuries TRR 
HISTORICAL LOST TIME INJURY RATE (LTIR) 
1.50 
1.25 
1.00 0.86 
0.75 
0.420.50 0.35 
0.25 
0 
2019 2020 2021 
Our Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) was 0.42 in 2021, compared to 0.35 in 2020. The chart above displays our historical LTIR performance since 2019. 23 
     
 
 
 
  
 
      
 
 
      
 
        
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
    
 
 
  -
-
-PEOPLE 
WHAT WE DID TO GET BETTER 
Balchem’s goal is to be the safest, most 
diverse, and most profitable nutrition com -
pany on the planet. Part of that is taking care of our people, and ensuring every employee goes home to his or her family safe and healthy. 
To that end, here are some of the initiatives 
that Balchem implemented in 2021: 
•Serious Injury and Fatality (SIF) Focused –
The first step to making our workplace asafer environment is reducing “critical tolife” risks as much as possible. In 2021, wedeveloped and implemented standardsfor mobile equipment and hot work.Our focus is to minimize overall SIF risksacross the board and, in 2022, we will con -
tinue our efforts to reduce risks related to 
Lockout-Tagout and Confined Space Entry. 
•GEMBA Walks – GEMBA Walks are key to in -
creasing safety when it comes to engage -
ment between management and front -
line workers. These are guided by focusedchecklists to eliminate high-risk tasksassociated with our operations, and givemanagement and employees an opportu -
nity to fix issues on the spot together.
•Stop Taking Avoidable Risks (STAR) Obser -
vations – STAR Observations continue toplay a big role in our safety improvement.In 2021, we upgraded and streamlinedour STAR Observations to make themmore focused on the hazards that havethe largest impact on our sites.
•Environment, Health and Safety (EHS)Capital Spend – We are continuouslyallocating capital spend to ensure we aremaking EHS improvements.
THE PATH IS CLEAR 
Placing the EHS function within the sup -
ply chain provides continuity, realizes effi -
ciencies, and allows Balchem to achieve better collaboration with other functions, 
such as Quality and Engineering. This model also allows for stronger involvement in decision making and is therefore integral to achieving our sustainability vision. 
The implementation of health and safety 
activities is overseen by our global team of EHS professionals who provide the assurance that safety standards are fully implemented and evaluated frequently. 
Bridgeton, Missouri employees completing a STAR Observation OUR THREE -
YEAR PLAN 
Step 1: Continue upgrading our SIF 
standards.  As stated, SIF risk reduction 
is critical to our success and to keeping 
our employees safe. 
Step 2: 
Ensure regulatory compliance. 
Compliance with laws and regulations 
is our license to operate in the commu- 
nities where we are located. It is critical 
that we meet and exceed these mini- 
mum requirements. 
Step 3: Implement an EHS manage 
ment system.  Standardizing programs, 
ensuring all our EHS obligations are 
being met, and constantly improving are 
earmarks of an EHS management system. 
Our future is bright! 
Verona, Missouri employees completing a GEMBA Walk 24 
     
 
  
     
     
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
 
      
       
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
        
’
-PEOPLE 
Balchem gives back to the local communities where we 
operate and provides a helping hand to those in need. 
BALCHEM HELPING HANDS, CORPORATE GIVING, AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT 
At Balchem, we pride ourselves on being members of the communities in which we work and supporting our local commu -
nities in a variety of ways. By harnessing the collective efforts of our employees, Balchem gives back to the local commu -
nities where we operate and provides a helping hand to those in need. In 2021, we continued to expand our Balchem Helping Hands activities and events, including phil -
anthropic partnerships, a matching dona -
tion program, and an employee volunteering program. Even during the pandemic, our employees found unique ways to make an impact in their communities. 
In 2021, we continued our partnership 
with Vitamin Angels, a global public health nonprofit that distributes lifesaving vita -
mins and minerals to women and children in need around the world. Vitamin Angels remains steadfastly committed to impro -
ving access to nutrition interventions for underserved pregnant women and child -
ren. With this partnership, we helped reach 200,000 women and children who were at risk of nutrient deficiencies in 74 countries around the world. BALCHEM’S 
KOOLER K IDS 
Balchem s  Kooler  Kids  program  helps 
supply refrigeration units to local food 
banks. Throughout 2021, Kooler Kids 
was instrumental in placing re frigera-  
tors in 15 loc
ations across 10 states. In October, Balchem supported Breast Can -
cer Awareness Month with a “Wear Pink 
Days” event. Balchem donated $10 to the National Breast Cancer Foundation for every employee who submitted a photo wearing pink, which included more than 500 employ -
ees. Throughout the month, we also provided resources to all employees to educate them about breast cancer and increase their awareness about this horrible disease. 
Balchem Helping Hands Matching Donation 
Program grew substantially in 2021, with Balchem matching donations to 54 differ -
ent charitable organizations in our commu -
nities. The matching program supports our 
Balchem em ployees supporting breast cancer awareness by participating in “Wear Pink Days"  25 
       
 
  
 
 -
-
--
-PEOPLE 
employees in their personal philanthropy and 
charitable giving efforts by providing mon -
etary matches (dollar for dollar) to non -
profit organizations that align with Balchem’s vision to make the world a healthier place. 
Balchem Helping Hands Employee Volun -
teer Program continued to expand in 2021, 
launching a broader calendar of new volun -
teer events. Globally, we made an impact in our local communities at organizations such as food banks, pet shelters, schools, and youth sports programs. Our teams collaborated and shared ideas, and we were so proud of our employees who, considering all the challenges everyone faced through this pandemic, were still able to give back to their communities in numerous ways. 
Nearly all of our sites participated in one or 
multiple events throughout 2021 that had a positive impact on their community and envi -
ronment. Some of these included: recycling bottle caps to help provide training to guide       dogs,  participating  in a charity  walk  to help 
fight hunger, promoting  Women  in Science, 
Technology,  Engineering,  Arts,  and Mathe-
matics (STEAM) to a local school district, con-
ducting a shoe fundraiser to help raise funds 
to give back to local food banks and veterans’ 
services,  making  blankets  and bedding  to 
provide  for children  who  are moving  out of 
homeless  shelters,  and donating  toiletries 
and other supplies to migrant camps to help 
with medical care for those in need.
ULMAN FOUNDATION 
Our Defiance, Ohio 
and Utah 
locations hosted bikers and run-
 
ners from the Ulman Foundation as they journeyed across the 
U.S. to raise 
awareness and collect donations to support young 
adults impacted by cancer. 
BELGIAN CENTER FOR GUIDE DOGS (BCG) 
The Grimbergen, Belgium team collected bottle caps to raise 
money for the 
Belgian Center for Guide Dogs (BCG). The BCG 
provides training for guide dogs to help the blind and disabled. 
The bottle caps donated by the Grimbergen team will be recy- 
cled and also raise money to help with guide dog training. 
UNITED W AY 
The Albert Lea, Minnesota team partnered with United Way to 
support “Screen Free Week.” This is a week focused on getting 
kids outside and reducing the use of electronics. To that end, employ-  
ees collected toys and games to help support outdoor play. 
FOOD BANK OF LINCOLN 
The L
incoln, Nebraska team supported the Food Bank of Lincoln 
by filling five totes full of items that the community really needed. 
The Lincoln team stepped up and donated basic hygiene tools, 
diapers, cooking oils, and other nonperishable items. 26 
5
PLANET 27 
 
  
 
     
   
    
 
 
 
   
 
     
 
 
   
      
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
      
 
      
  
 PLANET 
We are committed to responsible sourcing and always 
encourage our suppliers to employ sustainable practices. 
MATERIAL SOURCING 
The raw materials and supplies that are used in our supply chain represent an important component for Balchem’s sustainability com -
mitment. We are dedicated to not only ensuring that we work to increase our use of renewable raw materials and that all materials are manufactured within an ethically-responsible framework, but that we also have a strong and diverse supply chain which supports our customers’ needs. 
Balchem’s Code of Business Conduct and 
Ethics includes sections that govern the 
responsibilities of all Balchem employees when sourcing and interacting with material suppliers. Employees in the procurement department also receive additional training to ensure that our ethical framework is followed in any and all sourcing decisions. Our Modern 
Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement can 
be found on our website. 
We are committed to aligning our supply chains 
to source regionally and to finding sources 
that are near our facilities. Our commitment not only reduces our carbon footprint by reducing 
the energy used in transit, but also 
increases the strength of our supplier network by bringing us closer to our upstream sources; allowing us to ensure quality, compliance, and strength of supply. This principle is illustrated by the fact that 90% of our raw materials originate in the United States or Europe, where the majority of our production occurs. 
Balchem remains a committed member of the 
Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), as well as a member of Sedex. As a member of the RSPO, we source 100% of our palm oil needs from renewable (mass-balance) sources. We also con firm our commitment to redevelop -
ing our supply chain to 100% RSPO-certi fied 
material. As a member of Sedex, we comply with the principles of the Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA), which establishes best practices for environmental and business ethics. Balchem is committed to ensuring compliance with SMETA at all of our facilities. Balchem furthered our commitment for sus -
tainable farming by increasing the amount of raw cocoa material that is UTZ Certi fied, a 
program for sustainable farming that ensures fair sourcing and labor practices, to 48%. 
Verona, Missouri Plant 
100% 73% 
USA 
19% 
EU 
5% 
ASIA (EX. CHINA) 
1% 
CHINA 
2% 
OTHEROF ALL PALM 
OIL SOURCED REGIONAL DIVERSITY IN RAW MATERIALS AND SUPPLIERS. 
CERTIFIED =10% WE ARE COMMITTED TO ALIGNING OUR SUPPLY CHAINS TO SOURCE 
THROUGH RSPO REGIONALLY AND FINDING SOURCES NEAR OUR FACILITIES. 28 
     
 
 
   
 
     
 
   
    
  
 ’PLANET 
We are continuously looking for ways to improve our energy 
efficiency and reduce our environmental impact. 
ENERGY MANAGEMENT 
Balchem utilizes low energy-intensive man -
ufacturing processes. We are committed to finding innovative improvements to further 
reduce energy requirements and minimize the associated greenhouse gas (GHG) emis -
sions. As part of this commitment, in 2021, we established a program to reduce our GHG emissions by 25% by the year 2030, when measured against our 2020 baseline. 
OUR REDUCTION PLAN 
We’ve identified a path to achieve our goal, 
which will include initiatives across our entire footprint. The initiatives are comprised of projects related to alternative energy, the procurement of green energy, the reform -
ulation of products so they require less energy for production, the implementation of new technologies, and operational effi -
ciency improvements. Through the imple -
mentation of projects and initiatives across these categories, we are confident that we will meet our goal. RENEWABLE ENERGY USAGE IN 2021 
71% 29% 13% 
31% 
53% 3% 
Non-Renewable Other Renewable 
Renewable Solar 
Hydro 
Wind 
25% 
OUR COMMITMENT FOR REDUCING OUR 
GLOBAL GHG EMISSIONS BY 2030 PURCHASED ELECTRICITY FROM 
RENEWABLE S OURCES 
Part of our achievement plan includes expanding our purchase of green energy as well as 
exploring alternative sources of energy. This includes increasing the percentage of 
consumed electricity that comes 
from renewable sources. In 2021, 29% of Balchem's 
electr
icity  usage  was obtained  from  renewable  sources,  the most  significant  of which 
was wind power. 29 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
     
 
     
 
 
    
 
 
 
     
 
  
  
 
 
 PLANET 
INFRASTRUCTURE FOR SUCCESS 
We’ve invested in the infrastructure neces -
sary to achieve our reduction goals. This includes 
the creation of a sustainability intranet site designed to engage all levels of employees, provide education about Balchem’s sustain -
ability program, deliver progress updates, and capture process improvement ideas and suggestions from all employees. Also, our corporate engineering team has organized assets dedicated to achieving our reduction goal. This infrastructure, combined with collaboration and sharing best practices with our customers and suppliers, will set us up for success. 
OPERATIONAL IMPROVEMENTS 
In 2021, several operational improvements in energy optimization and reduction were 
implemented in support of our reduction initiatives. 
Our Defiance, Ohio operation completed a 
lighting upgrade to replace hundreds of older, inefficient fixtures with modern, energy-efficient LED units. This investment 
improved the lighting within the production and warehouse areas, making them safer and more appealing for our employees. This project reduces our annual energy usage by nearly one million kilowatt hours, which equates to reducing approximately 500 tons of CO
2 out of the environment each year. 
At our New Hampton, New York headquarters, a cross-functional team of employees upgraded the building’s boiler and hot water systems to improve both energy efficiency and reliability. The project resulted in lower energy usage for supplying hot water to the R&D laboratory. 
Throughout our manufacturing network, a 
significant contribution to GHG emissions comes from steam generation equipment. Our facilities in Lincoln, Nebraska, Defiance, Ohio, and Marshfield, Wisconsin initiated projects to reduce energy lost in the steam and condensate systems. These projects improved the condensate returned from the processes, bringing more hot water back to the boilers. The direct result of these projects was a reduction in fuel requirements for steam generation. 
Defiance, Ohio LED lighting improvements 30 
 
  
  
    
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
    
- -PLANET 
Balchem facilities strive to reduce waste products and reuse 
and recycle packaging with the help of local businesses. 
WASTE 
PRODUCT DISPOSAL 
The best way to reduce waste is to prevent 
its accumulation in the first place. Out-of-specification, unsaleable product is a waste of many resources: material, people, and line time. Moreover, there is environmental impact and real cost associated with its disposal. In 2021, Balchem worked to prevent out-of-specification products through our focused attention on defining and measuring key quality attributes in real time. We focused on shifting quality measurements through: •Reviewing and optimizing raw materialspecifications and compliance to ensurethat they are aligned with the finishedproduct specifications of the productsthey go into
•Optimizing the frequency and trending ofreal-time process quality measurements,so that adjustments can be made imme -
diately
•Continuously looking for and implement -
ing improvements in systems, processes,and equipment
•Focusing on “doing the right thing”in manufacturing• Working to make sure that finished prod -
uct speci fications accurately re flect both
the expectations of our customers and thecapability of our manufacturing systems
In 2021, Balchem worked to prevent out-of-  
speci fica
tion products  through  our focused 
attention  on defining  and  measuring  key 
quality attributes in real time. 
Electronic Recycling Program at the Albert Lea, Minnesota plant FIVE MAIN AREAS OF FOCUS FOR SOURCE REDUCTION OR RECYCLING 
CONSUMABLE WASTE 
PROCESS PACKAGING WASTE WASTE 
HAZARDOUS REDUCE/ 
RECYCLE 
PRODUCT 
DISPOSAL WASTE 31 
 
 
      
 
      
 
  
  
      
  
   
 
 
  
 
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 PLANET 
We are pleased to say that a sustained focus on recycling and reduction resulted in a reduction in product disposals by more than 50% from the previous year. 
K-Cup Recycling Program at the Defiance, Ohio plant
Water skimmer at the Bridgeton, Missouri plant WASTE RECYCLING AND REDUCTION 
Reducing and recycling waste is beneficial for 
the communities in which Balchem operates, as well as a benefit for our own business. As part of a manufacturing organization, there are many different waste streams, including 
product disposal, hazardous waste, process waste, packaging waste, and consumable waste. In 2021, we have done several things to improve performance in these categories. The primary hazardous waste being  con-
sidered at our facilities come as by-products 
from  certain  manufacturing  processes. 
In our St. Gabriel  plant,  we recently  made 
some  process  changes  that  reduced  the 
levels of substances  reportable under the 
U
.S. Environmental Protection Agency 
(EPA) Toxics Release Inventory (TRI) 
program. The process and management 
improvements made in St. Gabriel are 
applicable to other sites and have already 
been implemented at o ther facilities. 
S
ome  of our processes  create  waste  that 
needs to be treated before it can be properly 
disposed of into the local wastewater systems. 
In 2021,  our Bridgeton  facility  made  changes 
to its production  systems  that allow  us to 
more e ffectively keep food processing ingre-
dients  out of wastewater.  The facility  imple-
mented  a capital  project  that directly  reduces 
the food  ingredient  load  into the facility’s 
sewer  system.  Not only  does  this limit the 
work  the local  treatment  facility  has to 
p
ut into cleaning  the water,  but it improves 
production yield as well. 
Most of Balchem’s raw materials arrive with 
multiple  types  of packaging  materials,  from 
plastic  wrap  and paper  bags  to wooden 
pallets. This volume of material is a large and 
important  opportunity  for reuse  and recy-
cling.  Some  activities  that  were  increased 
include  recycling  cardboard  and paper, 
reusing pallets, and sending metal to scrap 
recycling. 
Last but not least, we have taken a lot of steps 
to help  reduce  consumable  waste.  In this 
past year alone, we have completed multiple 
projects that reduce and recycle consumable 
waste.  At our Grimbergen,  Belgium  facility, 
we were  able  to move  away  from  providing 
employees with plastic drinking water bottles 
and towards the use of reusable metal bottles 
and a water dispenser. This has helped reduce 
the site’s  reliance  on plastics.  Additionally, 
employees at our facilities are participating in 
Keurig’s K-Cycle program, which recycles and 
composts materials in the hot beverage K-Cup 
dispensers our employees use. 32 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
      
    
     
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
    
  
   
 
 
 
 
   
       
    
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
PLANET 
WATER MANAGE MENT 
Balchem uses water in our facilities for a variety 
of reasons including as ingredients i n our prod -
ucts, as part of our cleaning processes, and for 
both heating and cooling. By 2030, it  is our goal 
to reduce  our overall  global  water  usage  by 
25% when measured against our 2020 baseline. 
OUR R EDUCTION P LAN 
In 2021, we developed a comprehensive plan to 
achieve  our 2030  water  usage  reduction  goal. 
Our largest use of water involves withdrawing 
water  for the cooling  of various  production 
processes. In the coming years, we will imple -
ment intensive water reuse and recycling proj -
ects such as e fficient cooling towers to dramat -
ically reduce single-pass water withdrawal. In 
addition, we’ve identified water use reduction  
opportunities  across  our manufacturing  net-
work, including improving cleaning efficiencies, 
implementing  new process  technologies,  and 
making water-e fficient operational improve -
ments. Through these initiatives, we  will achieve 
our goal of an absolute 25% improvement over 
our 2020 water use by 2030. 
OPERATIONAL IM PROVEMENTS 
In 2021, we took steps to implement water use 
improvement projects that align with our plans 
to achieve  our reduction  target.  The projects 
focus  on operational  improveme nts to HVAC 
and boiler  systems,  as well  as clean-
ing processes. F or example, we completed an operational 
improvement project at our Marsh field, Wis -
consin facility to eliminate water used for single-
pass cooling. The project involved replacing two HVAC units that condition air for the Motor Con -
trol Center Room and the Dryer Control Room with options that use compressors for cooling instead of water. This switch will help save this site approximately 15,000 cubic meters of water a year. 
Also, at our Marsh field facility, we improved 
the condensate return lines on the site’s boiler 
system. This change will help to save both heat and water. We estimate that as much as 11 cubic meters of water per year will be saved from these improvements. 
In 2021, we completed the second phase of a 
condensate modernization project at our facil -
ity in Lincoln, Nebraska. In 2020, we completed the first phase of this project, which allows the 
site to reclaim up to 12% of the steam made as condensate and then reuse that steam in the boiler. In 2021, the second phase of the project increased the amount of steam that is reclaimed to 49%. This operational improve -
ment resulted in a direct reduction in our water usage. 
In 2021, our De fiance site began an operational 
improvement project that is expected to save 
approximately 1,050 cubic meters of water per month. Signi ficant improvements in the 
boiler system at this plant reduce the amount of makeup water that has to be added to the system. 
A Clean-in-Place (CIP) project was completed 
at our Whittemore, Iowa facility that allows the site team to clean equipment more efficiently and safely. Employees no longer 
manually enter and clean the facility’s dryer, and the new CIP process consumes signi fi-
cantly less water. 
Water use is considered in project scope when 
new processes are developed. Our Marano Ti -
cino, Italy facility recently added a new Plant Nutrition Unit. For this unit, bulk tanks need to be heated as part of the production pro -
cess. The new process recycles readily avail -
able warm and hot water from other plant processes for cleaning, rather than heat -
ing ambient temperature industrial water. This design will help reduce processed water needs by approximately 1,000 cubic meters annually. 
New steam and condensate system at Lincoln, Nebraska plant 25% 
OUR WATER CONSERVATION GOAL TO REDUCE GLOBAL USAGE BY 25% BY 2030 
12.29 CBM
WATER INTENSITY 
(CUBIC METERS OF WATER WITHDRAWAL 
PER METRIC TON OF PRODUCT PRODUCED) 
0.07% 
WATER WITHDRAWAL FROM 
REGIONS WITH HIGH OR EXTREMELY 
HIGH BASELINE WATER STRESS 33 
6
PROFIT 34 
     
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
      
 
 
        
 
 
  
     
 
     
 
     
  PROFIT 
“At our core, we are a health and nutrition company.” 
— TED HARRIS, CHAIRMAN, CEO, AND PRESIDENT 
OUR FOUNDATION 
Balchem was founded in 1967. Since our inception, we have continuously focused on creating long-term value by seeking growth opportunities and managing risk, both of which ensure our financial sustainability. 
It is this foundation that puts us in a strong position to meaningfully contribute to our mission of making the world a healthier place. We are accomplishing this with our focus on delivering trusted, innovative, and science-based solutions to the nutrition, health, and food markets. 
Despite the pandemic-driven, macroeconomic 
challenges over the past year, we were able to effectively supply our customers with the important products and services they needed and, ultimately, we once again delivered record sales and free cash flow. It was a team effort and a job incredibly well done by our employees, our partners, and other stakeholders who supported us and contributed to our success throughout a difficult year. 
To further ensure our future financial 
resilience, we continue to put our capital to work in meaningful ways. From a corporate perspective, we have now fully completed our project to consolidate multiple ERP systems into one, brand new platform. We now have 100% of our revenues on the new system, an initiative that was critical for the continued growth and operational efficiency of the 
company. We are thrilled to transition from focusing on implementation to realizing the many benefits of having the entire company on 
one, integrated system – including our ability to conduct day-to-day business activities within a less resource-intensive technology platform. It is our strong belief that sound ESG stewardship equals sound results and, as such, we are taking innovative steps to leverage the positive correlation between our sustainability-focused investments and our resulting economic profitability. From an operations perspective, we have identified 
several innovative solutions and continue to seek further opportunities to reduce our GHG emissions and water usage in our quest to make Balchem even more efficient than it is today. As noted earlier in this report, from a research perspective, our investments in new product development, external studies, and new science are making a difference for the future advancement of our Human, Animal, and Plant Nutrition businesses. 
We are excited about the future and have 
fully embraced the challenges that lie ahead of us on our quest to make the world a healthier place. 
2021 
27.9% 
2020 
28.2% 
2019 
24.7% 
REVENUE FROM PRODUCTS DEVELOPED 
IN THE PAST FIVE YEARS 
Defiance, Ohio R&D lab 35 
 
     
   
   
 
    
 
      
 
       
    
      
 
 
  
  
   
 
       
   
  
 
 
 
       PROFIT 
REVENUE 
$799.0M 
$800M $703.6M 
$700M $643.7M $643.7M 
$594.8M 
$600M 
$500M 
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 
ADJUSTED EBITDA* 
$189.8M$200M 
$180M $174.2M 
$159.9M 
$160M $147.8M 
$140M 
2017 2018 $160.0M 
2019 2020 2021 
BCPC 
5-YEAR T OTAL 
SHAREHOLDER RETURN (TSR) 
VS. RUSSELL 2000 INDEX 
29.8% (1,570 b ps) 
TSR MEA
SURED FROM 2017 TO 2021 
*Adjusted EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, 
other expense/income, taxes, depreciation, amortization,
stock-based compensation, acquisition-related expenses,
indemnification settlements, legal settlements, and the fair
valuation of acquired inventory. 
OUR GOVERNANCE 
Our commitment to sustainability and gover -
nance is ingrained into our business practices as we strive to make the world a healthier place. We feel strongly that a sound gover -
nance structure and clear lines of responsi -
bility will enable us to continue to deliver on our commitments. As an organization, we employ leading practices in corporate gover -
nance, which are built upon the foundation of our Balchem Code of Business Conduct 
and Ethics (our “Code”) and our Corporate 
Governance Guidelines . 
The first of Balchem’s core values is “Always 
do the right thing.” This is the underpinning of our company’s higher purpose of making the world a healthier place. 
This means that: •We conduct our business with high ethical
standards.•We comply w i
th the law.
•We will not engage in any activity which is:
― illegal,
― unethical, or
― detrimental to Balchem’s products,personnel, or business. 
Our Code reinforces our commitments with regard to sound governance and good busi -
ness practices. We feel strongly that doing the right thing is noticed by all of our valued stakeholders. Ultimately, this has a real and positive impact on our business. 
OUR GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE 
Our Board of Directors (the “Board”) con -
sists of a diverse group of individuals, which 
is elected by our shareholders, by class, annually. In 2019, we modi fied our Corporate Governance Guidelines to more accurately reflect ou
r company’s commitment to seek -
ing and electing diverse board members, and we continued to diversify the Board’s compo -
sition by electing another female member in 2021. Each of Balchem’s directors – other than our Chairman, CEO, and President, Ted Harris – is independent, as de fined by the National 
Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotations (NASDAQ) Marketplace Rules. All 
directors have attended 100% of our Board and Board committee meetings during the course of the last 10 years. We strongly encourage directors to also attend the annual stockholder meeting, with 100% of our directors attending the meeting in 2021. As we embrace minimiz -
ing the impact on our environment, our annual meetings have been held virtually since 2018, which also offers the opportunity for increased 
attendance by shareholders and other inter -
ested parties. 36 
   
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
      
     
  
 
   
’
’
’
’
’’
’
-
’PROFIT 
OUR BOARD HAS FOUR COMMITTEES, EACH OF WHICH IS COMPRISED OF INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS: 
Audit Compensation Corporate Governance Executive 
Committee Committee and Nominating Committee Committee 
(CG&N Committee) 
DIVERSITY IN OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
TENURE BALANCE GENDER DIVERSITY RACE / ETHNICITY DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 
2 
1 
2 3 2 
6 6 1 
1 
7 1 
0–3 years Male 
4–6 years Female 
7–9 years 
10+ years Caucasian / Independent 
White 
Black /
 African 
American 
Asian Not Independent 
AUDIT COMMITTEE
Our Audit Committee does the following:
•Monitors the work of Balchem’s accounting, financial reporting, and 
internal control processes
•Provides oversight of our compliance with our Code 
•Assists the Board with oversight of the company’s Enterprise Risk Management Program, including ESG risks
•Handles the appointment, compensation, retention, and oversightof Balchem’s independent auditors
COMPENSATION COMMITTEE 
The Compensation Committee does the following:
• Determines the compensation of Balchem’s CEO and other executive officers
• Administers Balchem’s equity compensation plans
• Recommends new compensation plans and amendments to existing plans
to the Board  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND NOMINATING COMMITTEE 
The CG&N Committee does the following:
•Gives the Board recommendations about individuals that should be 
nominated as directors
•Reviews Balchem’s corporate governance policies and documents
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
In coordination with the CG&N Committee, the Executive Committee does the following:
• Recruits, evaluates, and selects suitable candidates for the CEO position 
• Reviews succession planning for Balchem’s CEO and key executives
Together with the Compensation Committee, the Executive Committee estab -
lished objective criteria for the evaluation of the performance of the CEO. Our 
governance structure not only satisfies our regulatory requirements, but also provides effective company oversight and management.
Our Board and management are compensated to enhance shareholder value. 
The company’s compensation system, which is outlined in our Annual Proxy 
Statement , aligns management and Director compensation with financial  
results and shareholder return.37 
 
      
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
     
  
 
 
  
   
    
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
     
  
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  ’
-PROFIT 
SUSTAINABILITY 
We are committed to running our business 
in a way that respects the overall environ -
ment in which we operate. Therefore, cor -
porate responsibility and sustainability play an important role in our strategies and long -
term value creation for our stakeholders. We believe that our sustainability practices require transparency and accountability. Our sustainability framework, which focuses on the ESG topics most relevant to our business and stakeholders, has been fully integrated into our governance and everyday operations. Balchem has a cross-functional executive Environmental, Social, and Governance (“ESG”) Steering Committee, led by the Chair -
man and CEO, with a dedicated management team representing our entire business, which operates with oversight and direction from the Board. The charter of the Board’s CG&N Committee requires the committee to annually review Balchem’s ESG strategy, initiatives, and pol -
icies. The CG&N Committee, as well as the full Board, receive an ESG strategy update from management at least annually. For a full description of Balchem’s corporate gover -
nance practices and our approach to risk management, please refer to our Annual 
Proxy Statement  and our 2021 Form 10-K , or 
visit our Investor Relations  page. 
ETHICS AND HUMAN RIGHTS 
Balchem is committed to operating with 
excellence as strong stewards of our stake -
holders, and acting with honesty and integ -
rity while maintaining the highest ethical standards. We are committed to fair employ -
ment practices, which includes combatting involuntary labor, child labor, and human trafficking. As noted in our Mo
 dern Slavery 
and Human Trafficking Statement , which is 
part of the California Transparency in Supply 
Chains Act , we are committed to complying 
with all applicable employment laws and regulations. 
All of our employees are required to abide 
by our Code, which sets clear expectations concerning ethical behavior and compliance with laws. We require that all employees be trained on, and certify as to their compliance with, our Code on an annual basis. Our Sus -
tainability Framework also includes a Code 
of Ethics for Senior Financial O fficers to pro -
mote honest and ethical conduct and proper disclosure of financial information in the 
company’s periodic reports. 
Balchem is committed to facilitating an 
environment where all employees are encour -
aged to speak up if they observe someone not “doing the right thing.” We also provide mul -
tiple avenues for employees to ask for help or notify the company of misconduct, includ -
ing violations of the law or our Code. Besides an open-door management environment, employees can file a report using our ethics 
reporting hotline, website, or mobile device reporting form, which is available at balchem. 
ethicspoint.com . Claims can be submitted 
anonymously online. We do not, in any form, tolerate retaliation against employees who raise concerns or make good faith reports about possible breaches of law or our gover -
nance policies. 
In 2021, Balchem celebrated 15 years being listed on Nasdaq. Balchem has been publicly traded since 1970. 
WE ARE COMMITTED  
TO HUMAN RIGHTS AND SAFETY
Balchem’s suppliers are expected to  
adhere to our Supplier Code of Conduct , 
which defines our commitment to pro -
tecting human rights and ensuring safe 
work environments throughout our supply chain. Suppliers are required to treat all people with dignity and respect, and ensure that supply chains in any  
location are free from discrimination,  
violence, and unfair labor practices.38 
     
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
      
 
  
 
 
    
 
 
 PROFIT 
RISK MANAGEMENT 
Our Board provides and defi es responsibil -
ity for risk oversight, focusing on the most significant and material risks facing the com -
pany, and helps ensure that management develops and implements controls and appropriate risk mitigation strategies. 
At the direction of the Board, we have insti -
tuted an enterprise-wide risk management 
process that identifies potential exposure to risks that arise in the course of our busi -
ness. The Board uses our enterprise-wide risk management system as a key tool for understanding the risks facing us, as well as assessing whether management’s processes, procedures, and practices for mitigating those risks are effective. Our Internal Audit function is primarily responsible for the plan -
ning, assessment, and reporting of our risk profile and this risk management system. 
While most risk oversight activities are 
administered through the Audit Committee, each of the committees within the Board have historically focused, and continue to focus, on specific risks within their respective areas of responsibility. These committees also reg -
ularly report to the full Board. 
The Board and the Audit Committee regularly 
meet with management to discuss the com -
pany’s major risk exposures, their potential 
financial impact on the company, and the managemen
t thereof. 
1. The Audit Committee receives, or arranges for the Board to receive, periodic (on a noless than annual basis) reports from man -
agement on areas of material risk to thecompany, including financial, operational,
legal, regulatory, information security, andcybersecurity and strategic risks. (See the“Company Risk Reports ”).
2021 
$96.1M 2.The Aud it Committee receives the Com -
pany Risk Reports from members of man -
agement tasked with the responsibilityto understand, manage, and mitigate therisks (with the company’s enterprise riskmanagement efforts being led by its Inter -
nal Audit function).
3. The Chairman of the Audit Committeereports on its discussion about the Com -
pany Risk Reports to the full Board duringthe committee reports’ portion of theBoard meeting. This follows the receiptof said Company Risk Reports, whichenable s 
the Board and its committees to 
coordinate the risk oversight role, particu -
larly with respect to cross-discipline risks and interrelated risks. 
The Compensation Committee also evaluates risk as it relates to Balchem’s Compensation Program. Please refer to the discussion in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis  sec-
tion in Risk Considerations in our Compensa -
tion Program . 
As part of its role in evaluating the company’s corporate governance practices and proce -
dures – including identifying best practices 
GAAP EARNINGS PER SHARE 
$3.00 
$2.60 
$2.50 $2.45 
$2.00 
2019 2020 2021 $2.94 
FREE CASH FLOW CONVERSION* 
150% 
138%140% 
130% 
130% 121% 
120% 
2019 2020 2021 
GAAP NET EARNINGS *FREE CASH FLOW CONVERSION = CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
(CAPITAL EXPENDITURES)/NET EARNINGS 39 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
      
 
 
 
 
      
    
 
 
 
  
  
   
       
 
    
  
  PROFIT 
and reviewing and recommending any 
changes to the documents, policies, and procedures in the Company’s corporate governance framework (even within its Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws) to the Board – the Governance Committee evalu -
ates the risks associated with these prac -
tices and procedures. 
In addition to the oversight responsibili -
ties of our ESG strategy and Sustainability Framework, the Governance Committee 
plays a key role in mitigating the risks associ -
ated with key employee departures via its role in succession planning for the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and other key executives. At least once per year, usually as part of the annual talent review process, the Governance Committee and Board discuss and review the succession plans for the CEO and other key executives. The Board also becomes familiar with potential successors via various means, including annual talent reviews, presenta -
tions to the Board, and communications outside of meetings. Our succession plan -
ning process is an organization-wide practice designed to proactively identify, develop, and retain the leadership talent that is critical for our future business success. 
Board of Directors 
•General oversight of risk management
•Oversight of enterprise risk management process
•Assessment of management’s processes, procedures, and practices
Audit and Finance Committee 
• Accounting and financial controls  
•Financial statement inquiry
•Financial risk exposures
•Tax policy and compliance
•Other
 financial-related  
compliance matters•Risk mitigation to compensationprograms
•Risks related to compensationpoliciesGovernance Committee 
•Risks related  corporate governance
structure and processes (includingdirector quali fications and indepen -
dence) 
• Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 
• Other corporate-relatedcompliance matters
•Business sustainability risks, including Environmental, Social, andGovernance (ESG)
Management Representative Risks Covered 
• Assessment and oversight of potential risks • Strategic •Information technology
•Development and implementation of controls and risk •Operational •Environmental, Social, and
mitigation strategies Governance (ESG)
•Administration of enterprise-wide risk management system • Legal and regulatory compliance •Financial
• CybersecurityCompensation Committee 40
PROFIT
BALCHEM’S APPROACH TO 
INFORM
ATION CYBERSECURITY
Balchem’s Information Security Program  
includes policies, best practices, infrastruc -
ture, systems, and measures designed to 
protect Balchem’s digital estate. As the cyber  
attack landscape evolves and changes,  
Balchem remains focused on, and commit -
ted to, investing in our Information Security Program, and implementing and improving  
appropriate safeguards around IT net -
works, devices, and applications. We are also committed to protecting our intel -
lectual property, as well as employee,  
customer, and shareholder data from unau -
thorized access, disclosure, or compromise.  Our Information Security Program is man -
aged within the IT department, which reports to the CEO.
Balchem focuses on specific activities to 
maintain and enhance information secu -
rity, including:
RELIABLE, SCALABLE SYSTEMS AND 
INFRASTRUCTURE
Our information security systems, infrastruc -
ture, and processes are built on and follow the National Institute of Standards and Tech -
nology (NIST) framework for information  
security, which is a set of guidelines, accepted 
standards, and best practices for mitigating organizational cybersecurity risks published by the U.S. National Institute of Standards and Technology. Balchem continues to make significant investments in industry-leading and advanced technologies as part of our strategy to strengthen our security posture, business continuity capabilities, and ability to protect and safeguard systems and stake -
holder data. Our Information Security Pro -
gram and systems are tested and assessed annually by an independent third party.
TRAINING
Recognizing that information security, stake -
holder data, and privacy principles involve 
more than just systems and infrastructure, Balchem provides semi-annual cybersecu -
rity education and training to all users with access to IT systems, devices, or applications. Social engineering phishing campaigns are conducted monthly with the goal of building a culture of cybersecurity, as well as raising awareness and reinforcing best practices across the organization.
DATA AND INFORMATION PRIVACY
Balchem is committed to complying with  
applicable privacy and data protection laws, 
such as the General Data Protection Regula -
tion (GDPR), wherever we conduct business. Access to personal information collected by Balchem regarding our employees, custom -
ers, partners, vendors, shareholders, or any third party is restricted according to job roles and responsibilities, and is treated with care and safeguarded by policy and practice to   
ensure it is used lawfully and properly.
KEY INFORMATION SECURITY METRICS FOR 2021
Description  Metric
FOCUS AREA: INFORMATION SECURITY RISK OVERSIGHT
Number of times the Board of Directors was briefed on the information 
cyber
security program2
FOCUS AREA: INFORMATION SECURITY RISK MANAGEMENT
Number of external, independent, third-party risk assessments (pen tests) performed 1
Material information security breaches 0
FOCUS AREA: INFORMATION SECURITY TRAINING AND COMPLIANCE
Number of cybersecurity trainings delivered to employees 2
Number of employees who have received cybersecurity training 990
Number of social engineering phishing training campaigns conducted 10BALCHEM’S APPROACH TO INFORMATION CYBERSECURITY41 
  
  CONCLUSION 
We are committed to operating responsibly and creating a 
sustainable future for our customers, suppliers, employees, communities, and shareholders. 
We hope our 2021 Sustainability report provides a clear under- innovate new technologies to support our efforts, achieve our 2030 
standing of our progress over the past year to further engrain goals, and support the United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
sustainability into our daily business practices. We are excited about Development. 
our future and our ability to make a difference as we continue to For more information about Balchem Corporation, please visit www.balchem.com . 42 
7
APPENDIX 43 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 APPENDIX: GRI INDEX 
GRI INDEX 
This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. The issues addressed in this report were identi fied and 
prioritized by engaging a wide range of stakeholders internally and externally (see About Our Report ). Through this process, we identi fied 
ESG topics that are material to our company, some of which are covered by GRI Standards. Those topics are included in this GRI Index. 
Based on availability of data, not all GRI disclosures are reported fully. For more information on GRI Standards, visit https://www.global -
reporting.org/standards . 
Disclosure Number Description Location and Notes 
GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 
102-1 Name of the organization 
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 
102-3 Location of headquarters 
102-4 Location of operations 
102-5 Ownership and legal form 
102-6 Markets served 
102-7 Scale of the organization 
102-8 Information about employees and other workers 
102-9 Supply chain 
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 
102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 
102-12 External initiatives Our Vision 
Message from Our Chairman, CEO, and President 
2021 Annual Report 
2021 Annual Report 
2021 Annual Report 2021 Annual Report 
2021 Annual Report 
People – Human Capital Planet – Material Sourcing 
About Our Report 
Profit 
Included throughout the report 44 
 
  
  
 
      
  
   
           
   APPENDIX: GRI INDEX 
Disclosure Number Description 
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE (CONTINUED) 
102-13 Membership associations 
STRATEGY 
102-14 Statement from senior decision maker Location and Notes 
Management includes o fficers, members, or support of the 
following associations: •Advanced Medical Technology Association (AdvaMed)
•American Animal Science Association (ASAS)
•American Association of Analytical Chemists (AOAC)
•American Association of Bovine Practitioners (AABP)
•American Association of Veterinary Nutritionists (AAVN)
•American Canine Sports Medicine Association (ACSM)
•American Chemistry Council (ACC) – Ethylene Oxide Safety
Task Group
•American Chemistry Council (ACC) – Ethylene Oxide/EthyleneGlycols Management
•American Chemistry Council (ACC) – Toxicology ResearchTask Group
•American Institute of Certi fied Public Accountants (AICPA)
•American Society for Mass Spectrometry (ASMS)
•American Society for Quality (ASQ)
•American Society of Animal Science (ASAS)
•American Spice Trade Association (ASTA)
•Council of Industry – Southeastern NY
•Ethylene Oxide Sterilization Association (EOSA)
•International Association for Food Protection (IAFP)
•International Information System Security Certi fication
Consortium (ISC2)
•Minnesota Food Protection Association (MFPA)
•National Agri-Marketers Association (NAMA)
•Women in Manufacturing Association (WiM)
Message from Our Chairman, CEO, and President 
Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Included, by topic, throughout the report 102-15 45 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  APPENDIX: GRI INDEX 
Disclosure Number Description 
ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 
GOVERNANCE 
102-18, 102-20, 102-27 Governance structure 
STAKEHOLDER AGREEMENT 
102-40 List of stakeholder groups 
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 
REPORTING PRACTICE 
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 
102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 
102-47 List of material topics 
102-48 Restatements of information 
102-49 Changes in reporting Location and Notes 
Balchem Corporation Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 
Balchem Corporation Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 
Profit – Our Governance 
Message from Our Chairman, CEO, and President 
Balchem has established good working relationships at the 
Verona, MO; Marano Ticino, Italy; and Bertinoro, Italy sites. In 2021, approximately 17% of our employees were represented by collective bargaining agreements. 
About Our Report 
About Our Report 
About Our Report 
2021 Annual Report 
About Our Report 
About Our Report 
There have been no changes in reporting from the previous year. 
There have been no changes in reporting from the previous year. 46 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 APPENDIX: GRI INDEX 
Disclosure Number Description 
REPORTING PRACTICE (CONTINUED) 
102-50 Reporting period 
102-51 Date of most recent report 
102-52 Reporting cycle 
102-53 Point of contact for questions regarding 
the report 
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with GRI Standards 
102-55 GRI content index 
102-56 External assurance 
Disclosure Number Description Location and Notes 
About Our Report 
About Our Report 
About Our Report 
sustainability@balchem.com 
Appendix – GRI Index 
Appendix – GRI Index 
No external assurance is obtained over the People and Planet 
pillars. Profit financial data listed in Form 10-K has been audited. 
Location and Notes 
GRI 301: MATERIALS 2016 
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 
103-2 Management approach and its components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 
TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES 
Materials used by weight or volume About Our Report 
Planet – Material Sourcing 
Planet – Material Sourcing 
Planet – Material Sourcing 
Total volume of materials (lbs): 
•Renewable – 205.4M
•Non-renewable – 378.7M301-1 47 
 
 
   
 
  
  
 
  302-3APPENDIX: GRI INDEX 
Disclosure Number Description Location and Notes 
GRI 302: ENERGY 2016 
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 
103-1 
103-2 103-3 Explanation of the material topic 
and its boundary 
Management approach 
and its components 
Evaluation of the management 
approach About O u
r Report 
Planet – E n
ergy Management 
Planet – Energy Management 
TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES 
Energy intensity Plane t – E
nergy Management 
Energy intensity includes all energy sources. 
•Electric Only: EI 0.67 GJ/Ton (Produced)
•Gas Only: EI 3.04 GJ/Ton
•Combined: EI 3.71 GJ/Ton
Disclosure Number Description Location and Notes 
GRI 303: WATER AND EFFLUENTS 2018 
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 
103-1 
103-2 103-3 Explanation of the material topic 
and its boundary 
Management approach 
and its components 
Evaluation of the management approach About Our Report 
Planet – Water Management 
Planet – Water Management 48 
 
 
  
   
 
   
 
  
  
    303-3APPENDIX: GRI INDEX 
Disclosure Number Description Location and Notes 
GRI 303: WATER AND EFFLUENTS 2018 (CONTINUED) 
MANAGEMENT APPROACH DISCLOSURES 
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource We conducted water scarcity research (refer to Plane t 
 – Water Man -
agement ) and determined that less than 1% of water is withdrawn 
from high-stress water areas. 
TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES 
303-2 Management of water discharge related impacts 
Water withdrawal Balch e
m works with local municipalities as facilities discharge 
water into municipal sources. Except for one location, which is tightly 
controlled, we do not operate any plants that are located in high-stress water areas. The results of the water stress analysis (refer to Planet – Water Management ) were shared with the steering com -
mittee, who oversees water management stewardship. 
Planet – Water Management Total water withdrawn: 
•2021: 4,214,588 CBM
• 2020: 4,038,291 CBMWater intensity (cubic meters withdrawn per metric ton of 
products produced): 
•2021: 12.29 
•2020: 12.57
•2019: 10.87
•2018: 11.50 
Disclosure Number Description Location and Notes 
GRI 305: EMISSIONS 2016 
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic 
and its boundary About Our Report 
103-2 Management approach and its components Planet – Energy Management 
Evaluation of the management approach Planet – Energy Management 103-3 49 
 
       
 
  
 
  
  
306-2APPENDIX: GRI INDEX 
Disclosure Number Description Location and Notes 
GRI 305: EMISSIONS 2016 (CONTINUED) 
TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES 
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Planet – Energy Management 
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Planet – Energy Management 
305-4 GHG emissions intensity Total GHG emissions intensity (metric tons/revenue in millions): 
•2021: 98 
•2020: 109
•2019: 116
GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 2016 
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 
103-2 Management approach and its components 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach About Ou r R
eport 
Planet – Waste Recycling and Reduction 
Planet – Waste Recycling and Reduction 
TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES 
Waste by type and disposal method Planet – Waste Recycling and Reduction 
Total weight of hazardous waste (metric tons) in 2021: 684 50 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 APPENDIX: GRI INDEX 
Disclosure Number Description Location and Notes 
GRI 308: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 2016 
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic 
and its boundary About Our Report 
103-2 Management approach and its components People – Food Safety 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Peopl e – F
ood Safety 
MANAGEMENT APPROACH DISCLOSURES 
308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken People – Food Safety 
Approximately 75% of total hazardous waste suppliers have been 
audited in the past three years. 
GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 2018 
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary About Our Report 
103-2 Management approach and its components People – Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach People – Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security 
MANAGEMENT APPROACH DISCLOSURES 
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system People – Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security 
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation People – Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security 
Refer to JSAs, GEMBA walks, and STAR observation program for 
more information. In addition, for PSM processes, we utilize Process Hazards Analysis regarding powder handling process operations. 51 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 403-5APPENDIX: GRI INDEX 
Disclosure Number Description Location and Notes 
GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 2018 (CONTINUED) 
MANAGEMENT APPROACH DISCLOSURES (CONTINUED) 
403-3 Occupational health services People – Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security 
Balchem has developed several technical and business process 
standards that sites use to model their procedures. Refer to JSAs, GEMBA walks, and STAR observation program for more information. 
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication regarding occupational health and safety People – Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security 
Refer to JSAs, GEMBA walks, and STAR observation program for 
more information. 
Worker training on occupational health and safety People – Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security 
Safety training is performed by employees on at least an annual 
basis, and is also integrated into a daily practice with “tool talks” and pre-shift huddles. We have held “safety days” at sites, where the site will spend the entire day performing safety-related activi -
ties. Our leadership and Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security professionals also receive continuing education. 
403-6 Worker Health Promotion People – Human Capital 
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked by business relationships People – Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security 
TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES 
403-9 Work-related injuries People – Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security 52 
 
 
  
 
 
    
  
  
    405-1 APPENDIX: GRI INDEX 
Disclosure Number Description Location and Notes 
GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 2016 
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 
103-1 
103-2 103-3 Explanation of the material topic 
and its boundary 
Management approach 
and its components 
Evaluation of the management approach About O u
r Report 
People – Human Capital 
People – Human Capital 
TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES 
Diversity of governance bodies 
and employees People – Human Capital 
GRI 413: LOCAL COMMUNITIES 2016 
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 
103-1 
103-2 103-3 Explanation of the material topic 
and its boundary 
Management approach 
and its components 
Evaluation of the management approach About O u
r Report 
People – Balchem Helping  Hands, Corporate  Giving,  
and 
Community Involvement 
People – Balchem Helping  Hands, Corporate  Giving,  
and 
Community Involvement 
TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES 
Operations with local community 
engagement, impact assessments, and development programs People – Balchem Helping  Hands, Corporate  Giving,  
and 
Community Involvement 413-1 53 
 
 
 
 
 
 APPENDIX: SASB INDEX 
SASB INDEX 
This report reviewed the SASB framework as one of the key inputs for our material ESG topics. The below metrics are aligned with the SASB 
framework for the chemical industry, where Balchem is mapped by SASB. For more information on SASB standards, visit https://www.sasb. 
org/standards-overview/. 
Code Description Location and Notes 
SUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD 
GHG EMISSIONS 
RT-CH-110A.1 Gross global Scope 1 emissions, percentage covered under emissions-limiting regulations 
RT-CH-110A.2 Discussion of long-term and short-term Measuring Our Progress  and Appendix 
strategy or plan to manage Scope 1 emissions, emissions reduction targets, and an analysis of performance against those targets Planet – Energy Management 
WATER MANAGEMENT 
RT-CH-140A.1 (1) Total water withdrawn, (2) total water consumed, percentage of each in regions with high or extremely high baselinewater stress
RT-CH-140A.3 Description of water management risks Measuring Our Progress  and Appendix 
and discussion of strategies and practices to mitigate those risks Planet – Water Management 54 
 
  
 
 APPENDIX: SASB INDEX 
Code Description Location and Notes 
SUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (CONTINUED) 
HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT 
RT-CH-150A.1 Amount of hazardous waste generated, 
percentage recycled Measuring Our Progress  and Appendix 
COMMUNITY RELATIONS 
RT-CH-210A.1 Discussion of engagement processes to manage risks and opportunities associated with community interests People – Balchem  Helping  Hands, Corporate  Giving,  
and Community Involvement 
WORKFORCE H EALTH AND SAFETY 
RT-CH-320A.1 (1) Total recordable incident rate(TRIR) and (2) fatality rate for (a) directemployees and (b) contract employeesMeasuring Our Progress 
RT-CH-320A.2 Description of efforts to assess, monitor, and reduce exposure of employees and contract workers to long-term (chronic) health risks People – Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security 
MANAGEMENT OF THE LEGAL AND REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT 
RT-CH-530A.1 Discussion of corporate positions related Profit – Our Governance 
to government regulations and/or policy proposals that address environmental and social factors affecting the industry 55 
APPENDIX: SDG INDEX 
SDG INDEX 
All United Nations Member States adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development in 2015, providing a path for peace and prosperity 
for people and the planet. The 17 SDGs are an urgent call for action by all countries, and support from the private sector is an important piece 
to achieving these goals. This report reviewed the SDGs as one of the key inputs for our priority ESG topics. Our priority ESG topics relate to the 
following SDGs. For more information on the SDGs, visit https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/sdgs.  
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS INDEX 
PEOPLE 
Animal Nutrition 
Food Availability 
Human Nutrition and Health 
Human Capital 
Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security Human Capital Community Involvement 
PLANET 
Water Management 
Energy Management 
Waste Management Safety and Environmental Stewardship of Chemicals and Genetically Modified Organisms Materials Sourcing Practices (e.g., palm oil, coffee, cocoa) Food Safety and Health Concerns 
Energy Management 
United Nations Global Compact Participant 