Making the World a  Healthier Place:  
Our 2019 Sustainability Report
2
Our two sustainability objectives remain the same as we look to  
the future:
• Providing innovative solutions for the health and nutritional needs  
of the world
• Operating with excellence as strong stewards of our employees,  
customers, shareholders, and communities (our stakeholders)
Our vision is clear – to make the world a healthier place. Every day, 
Balchem is delivering trusted solutions that enhance health and  
nutrition through science. One of our proud accomplishments is OUR MISSION
that we were able to impact 1.4 billion people around the world this 
year through human nutrition products, and through people being 
fed by animals supplemented with our vital nutrients. 
Our Sustainability Framework focuses on the most critical Environ -
mental, Social, and Governance (ESG) topics relevant to our business 
and stakeholders. This report highlights our efforts within three 
pillars: People, Planet, and Profit. We welcome you to join our  
sustainability journey as we help make the world a healthier place. 
1.4 Billion People Reached in 2019
The total number of people impacted is calculated by the daily recommended doses of  
minerals, essential nutrients, and vitamins and the annual consumption of protein.Our Sustainability Framework 
 
 
   
 
employees, customers, shareholders, & communitiesOperate with excellence as strong stewards of our Provide innovative solutions for the health &nutritional needs of the world
Making  
the World  
a Healthier  
PlacePEOPLE
PLANET PROFIT
CULTURECOMPANYWe made good progress in 2019 with our vision to make the 
world a healthier place. 3
1MESSAGE FROM OUR 
CHAIRMAN AND CEO
2ABOUT  
OUR REPORT
3MEASURING  
OUR PROGRESS
4 PEOPLE
5
6PLANET
PROFITTABLE OF 
CONTENTS
7 APPENDIX4
1 
 
 
MESSAGE FROM OUR 
CHAIRMAN AND CEO5
For over 50 years, Balchem has developed 
innovative solutions for the nutritional 
needs of the world. We do this while oper -
ating our facilities and businesses to the  
expectations of our employees, sharehold -
ers, and communities (our stakeholders). 
Balchem has a long, distinguished history 
of creativity and innovation, all supported 
by our vision to make the world a healthier 
place. At our core we are a health and  
nutrition company.
I am very proud of the progress Balchem 
has made to drive forward our sustainability 
objectives, communicate our successes, 
and identify areas of priority which are  
included in this report. Our strategy remains 
unchanged and we remain focused on our 
two main objectives: providing innovative 
solutions for the health and nutritional 
needs of the world, and operating with 
excellence as strong stewards of our  
stakeholders.
Over the past year, we have made good 
progress by remaining focused on our three 
sustainability pillars: People, Planet, and 
Profit. We delivered record financial perfor -
mance and expanded our global footprint. 
Our continuous investment in technology MESSAGE FROM OUR CHAIRMAN  
AND CEO
Sustainability is  
at the heart of our 
company’s vision  
to make the world  
a healthier place.
and systems management has resulted in 
efficiencies with our ESG data collection 
process and has allowed us to more actively 
manage those efforts. I am pleased with the 
continuous strengthening of our Corporate 
Governance Guidelines and the progress 
we have made to promote diversity. Our 
investments in new product development, 
external studies, and new science develop -
ment are making a difference for the future 
advancement of our Human, Animal, and 
Plant Nutrition businesses. In 2019, approx -
imately 1.4 billion people were positively 
impacted in some way by our products. 
Our employees continue to expand their rela -
tionships within their communities and share 
their time and resources. Balchem supports 
efforts to find novel ways to help, give back, 
and build strong places to live. The safety, 
health, and security of our stakeholders are 
of primary concern in the operation of our 
facilities. We have global initiatives to reduce 
employee injuries with the goal of zero inju -
ries and are proud of the progress we have 
made over the last several years.
Our sustainability journey is one of  
continuous improvement. To confirm our 
commitment to ESG, we continue to actively engage our customers, shareholders, and 
employees for input on the key priorities for 
Balchem’s sustainability strategy. As you will 
see in this report, we have continued to make 
important progress in the areas most critical 
to ensuring the world is a healthier place.
I am proud of the contributions of all our 
stakeholders who are dedicated to our 
vision, and we are thankful for your interest 
in Balchem and our journey to ensure the 
long-term sustainability of our business 
and our stakeholders.
Ted Harris  
Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerOUR FOUR  
BUSINESS SEGMENTS
Human Nutrition and Health:   
Provides chelated minerals, the  
essential nutrient choline, vitamins, 
micro-encapsulation, and food ingre -
dients for the supplement, beverage, 
dairy, and bakery markets. 
Animal Nutrition and Health:  Supplies 
science-based animal feed nutritional 
ingredients and solutions for better 
animal productivity and wellness.
Specialty Products:  Promotes  
human health by ensuring the safe 
and timely supply of critical steriliza -
tion technology to the medical and 
food industries.
Industrial Products:  Supplies  
environmentally friendly products  
for the energy industry.
TO OUR EMPLOYEES, CUSTOMERS, SHAREHOLDERS, AND COMMUNITIES:6
 
 
 2
ABOUT  
OUR REPORT7
Material ESG TopicsIn the following sustainability report we 
highlight our progress made over the last 
year and demonstrate our dedication 
to continuous improvement. The topics 
addressed in this report were identified  
and prioritized by engaging a wide range  
of internal and external stakeholders. 
Our process included:
• Convening a cross-functional executive 
steering committee with representatives 
from business units, finance, investor 
relations, human resources, research and 
development (R&D), internal audit, supply 
chain, and operations
• Reviewing progress with the sustainability 
steering committee (quarterly) and operat -
ing committee (semi-annual)
• Engaging in ongoing interviews with  
executives and functional leaders  
around relevant sustainability topics
• Discussing with some of our largest  
shareholders and customers
• Reviewing leading standards and frame -
works such as the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) , Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board (SASB) , and the UN Sus -
tainable Development Goals (SDGs)
This report has been prepared in accordance 
with the GRI Standards: Core option. Unless 
otherwise noted, the scope of the metrics 
and information presented in this report is 
equivalent to those considered in our annual 
financial report and includes the operations 
of all subsidiaries. These metrics reflect the 
results of 12 months of operations ending 
on December 31, 2019.We are committed to making the world a healthier place by 
providing solutions for the health and nutritional needs  
of the world and operating responsibly. ABOUT OUR REPORT
   
    
 
PEOPLE
PROFIT PLANET
PEOPLE
 Human Nutrition  
 and Health 
 Animal Nutrition
 Food Availability 
 Food Safety and  
 Health Concerns
 Human Capital
 Environmental,  
 Health, Safety,  
 and Security
 Community  
 InvolvementPLANET
  Materials Sourcing  
 Energy Management
 Waste Management
 Water Management
 Safety and Environmental  
 Stewardship of Chemicals and  
 Genetically Modified Organisms
PROFIT
 Foundation
 Governance
 Risk Management  8
 
 
 3
MEASURING  
OUR PROGRESS9
MEASURING OUR PROGRESS
1.4 billion  – number of people 
reached per year10.7 billion  – number of animals 
reached per year24.7%  – revenue from products 
developed in the past five years
1.32 – total recordable injury  
rate (TRIR)0.59 GJ  – energy intensity  
(GJ of energy per ton of  
product produced)
74,947  – scope 1 and scope  
2 greenhouse gas emissions  
(CO2e metric tons)$643.7M  – total revenue
24%  – hourly employee turnover
7% – salary employee turnover10.87 CBM  – water intensity (cu -
bic meters of water withdrawal per 
metric ton of product produced)
0% – water withdrawal from  
regions with high or extremely 
high baseline water stress$160.0M  – adjusted EBITDA**
76%  males, 24%  females –  
employee diversity99%  – hazardous waste  
reused or recycled
75%  – hazardous material  
suppliers audited in the last  
3 years*$79.7M  – GAAP net earnings
$2.45  – GAAP earnings per share
78%  – R&D focused on health  
and nutrition 100%  – of palm oil sourced  
certified through RSPO 
45%  – raw materials from  
renewable resources121%  – free cash flow conversion 
100%  – manufacturing sites  
with local community  
engagement efforts0 – product recalls19.2%  – 5-year total shareholder  
return (TSR) vs Russell 2000 IndexPEOPLE PLANET PROFIT
Note: Scorecard metrics represent priority focus areas, but additional metrics may be disclosed to satisfy analyst needs. The number of people reached is calculated by the daily 
recommended dose of vitamins and annual consumption of protein in 2019. *Balchem defines hazardous materials as ethylene oxide, trimethylamine, hydrochloric acid, anhydrous 
ammonia, propylene oxide, and carbon disulfide. **Adjusted EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, other expense/income, taxes, depreciation, amortization, stock-based 
compensation, acquisition-related expenses, indemnification settlements, legal settlements, and the fair valuation of acquired inventory.Making  
the World  
a Healthier 
Place10
 
 
 4
PEOPLE11
HUMAN NUTRITION AND HEALTH
Good nutrition is the foundation of good 
health, and Balchem’s Human Nutrition 
and Health (HNH) segment is dedicated  
to making nutrient-rich products for  
numerous wellness applications. In line  
with our commitment for R&D, 78% of our 
R&D expenditures are focused on health 
and nutrition, showcasing our continued 
commitment to advancements in making 
the world a healthier place.
Our HNH segment is the world leader  
in providing choline, a human essential 
nutrient, under the brand VitaCholine® and 
a broad range of specialty organic chelated 
minerals for efficient human metabolic 
utilization under the Albion Minerals brand. 
Our industry-leading food and beverage 
portfolio in-cludes products and systems 
designed to improve production efficiency, 
reduce waste, and create great-tasting nutri -
tion to enhance the consumer experience.
CHOLINE BENEFITS
Recent studies demonstrate choline’s 
broad role in human health, and in May of 
2016, the FDA established a Recommended 
Dietary Intake (RDI) of 550mg/day. With 
90% of the US population failing to achieve 
adequate choline intake, the US Govern -
ment has defined choline as a key “short-  
fall nutrient.” In addition, leading medical 
bodies such as the American Medical  
Association and the American Academy  
of Pediatrics have recently issued policy 
statements highlighting the importance  
of choline early in life.PEOPLE
To advance the scientific understanding of 
choline and the important role it plays in 
human physiology, Balchem established 
a Research Fellowship at the Nutrition Re -
search Institute of the University of North 
Carolina, Chapel Hill (UNC). Balchem has 
also funded research to establish a reliable 
laboratory biomarker that would help 
identify those at risk for choline deficiency. 
In 2017, our study served as the basis upon 
which UNC received a $2.6M grant from the 
US National Institute of Health to expand  
the choline biomarker work.
Choline plays a key role in neurological  
and cognitive development, gene reg -
ulation, membrane integrity, and lipid 
transport, which supports liver and muscle 
health. The importance of choline during 
pregnancy and early childhood develop -
ment has been well documented for many 
years. In fact, VitaCholine was the choline 
source used in a clinical study at Cornell 
University which has led to numerous  
publications on novel benefits to both  
infants and mothers. Choline is a staple  
of infant formula and, based on this new 
and compelling research, is poised to  
become a key ingredient for prenatal  
supplements due to its enduring benefits  78% 
of R&D funds are focused on  
health and nutritionfor neurological development in infants,  
toddlers, and older children. Moreover,  
new studies are explaining the significant 
role of choline in adult cognition, vision 
health, and epigenetic function.
ORGANIC AND CHELATED MINERALS
In addition to choline, our HNH segment’s 
chelated minerals portfolio offers a broad 
range of specialty organic mineral solutions. 
The portfolio includes iron, magnesium,  
calcium, and zinc, as well as many other 
trace minerals, all produced by unique and
of the US population 
does not achieve  
adequate choline  
intake90%
=10%“Our goal is to bring together research, quality, and 
production to reduce the development time to market  
of new and impactful human nutritional solutions.”
— Jim Hyde,  SVP-GM of Human Nutrition and Health
12
PEOPLE
specialized methods. Our amino acid  
chelated mineral compounds are designed  
to deliver human-grade minerals with  
improved bioavailability, better tolerability, 
and lower interaction characteristics.
We are currently developing reactive 
granulation platform technology, a process 
for chelating multiple minerals to meet the 
needs of consumers whose dietary intakes 
may lead to the need for advanced mineral 
supplementation. Our scientifically-validated 
chelates make mineral intake more efficient 
and accessible to a broad spectrum of con -
sumers, many of whom find it challenging 
to achieve adequate intakes. Balchem is 
committed to leading the way in meeting 
customer expectations for clean-label  
improvements. An example of which is  
the development of chelated minerals  
that remain functionally effective with-  
out added flow agents.
FOOD AND BEVERAGE
Our HNH segment’s food and beverage 
business has partnered with customers 
to develop spray-dried and agglomerated 
lipid nutrition systems for the beverage and 
sports nutrition markets. These product 
lines include vegan, non-GMO, and organic 
solutions to the rapidly developing nutri -
tional food market. Our unique ability to 
formulate flexible processing technology 
broadens customer options and accelerates 
the development of healthy and great-  
tasting nutritional food solutions.
According to the United States Department 
of Agriculture (USDA) and United States 
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA),1 an 
important way to reduce food waste is to 
improve product development, storage,  
and delivery methods. Balchem contributes 
to the reduction in food waste through 
enabling technology like the BakeShure® 
micro-encapsulated acids we have provided 
for the baking industry. Our proprietary 
micro-encapsulation technology helps baked goods stay shelf-stable longer without 
preservatives, which translates to less food 
waste at the retailer and consumer level.
When food and beverage brands want to 
balance sensory attributes with nutritional 
benefits, they need customized formulation 
expertise. Balchem specializes in creating 
unique sensory experiences that deliv -
er differentiating nutritional benefits in 
sports nutrition, functional beverages, 
medical foods, and more.
1) https://www.usda.gov/foodwaste/faqs
In 2016, we reformulated  
our food ingredient products to remove 
partially hyd rogenated oils (PHOs). 
PHOs contain trans fats which raise 
LDL cholesterol. Elevated LDL levels are 
associated with increased risk of heart 
attack. To provide broader nutrition 
solutions, Balchem is developing reac -
tive granulation platform technology, a 
process for multiple mineral chelating 
(CCMG, MLGG, DMCG – all nutritional 
ingredients for human health).
Horizon® Organic 
Growing Years™
In 2019, VitaCholine® provided 
Choline, a key nutrient included in 
Horizon® Organic Growing Years™, a 
new organic whole milk from Danone 
North America featuring specially 
selected nutrition for growing kids.
The Horizon® Organic and Growing Years™ trademarks 
and trade dress are owned by WhiteWave Services, Inc.13
PEOPLE
ADVANCING ANIMAL NUTRITION 
AND FOOD AVAILABILITY
Balchem is dedicated to meeting the  
nutritional needs of both production and 
companion animals around the globe. We 
invest significant resources in our internal 
R&D efforts, as well as with leading academic 
institutions in the field of animal science and 
nutrition. The expanding global population 
and stress on resources continues to require 
agriculture to be more efficient and search 
out new solutions to improve productivity. 
We are invested in meeting this challenge to 
ensure a sustainable global food system.
As a leader in animal nutrition technologies,  
 we are driving the innovations that will 
change our future. We will continue to help 
livestock producers accomplish more with 
less, discover unique products that will  
produce food more efficiently, and move 
us toward a more secure, sustainable food 
chain. Our extensive line of specialty nutri -
ents helps support the health and produc -
tivity of many animals – ruminants, poultry, 
swine, horses, aquaculture and companion 
animals – with products optimized for the 
unique needs of each species.
Choline plays a vital role in all species, and 
Balchem is one of its largest producers. It’s 
an essential nutrient for poultry and swine, 
as it positively affects their health, produc -
tivity, and longevity. For the average dairy  
cow, choline boosts milk production by an  
additional 1,400 pounds per cow per year,  
and also helps to ensure the health, growth, 
and productivity of her newborn calf 
throughout its life. In 2019, we refreshed the brand and mes -
saging for our choline line used in swine, 
poultry, and companion animal diets. The 
new PuraChol™ brand is more reflective 
of Balchem’s world leadership in choline 
production. The new name also reinforces 
Balchem’s standards for quality control  
and purity, ensuring the highest levels of 
satisfaction from our customers and the 
highest levels of performance from the 
animals they feed. 
Our Animal Nutrition and Health (ANH)  
business segment provides nutritional  
products formulated with natural and  
nutritional ingredients, including choline 
chloride, amino acids, minerals, and a 
variety of other important supplements. 
Balchem’s proprietary microencapsulation 
and chelation technologies ensure efficient 
delivery of essential nutrients to pets and 
livestock. Our animal products contribute  
to their overall health, growth, and perfor -
mance, as well as the more responsible  
use of resources. 
1,400 POUNDS
of additional milk produced  
per cow, per year 
ReaShure® precision release choline, 
a major technological breakthrough, 
protects choline in the cow’s digestive 
tract for time-released, bioavailability,  
and nutritional efficacy.
 Higher milk production
 Fewer metabolic problems
 Essential nutrientReaShure®
“We depend on animals for food and for companionship, and 
Balchem recognizes the impact uniquely tailored nutritional 
products have on improving health and productivity.”
— Jonathan Griffin,  Vice President and General Manager, Animal Nutrition & Health14
PEOPLE
Our animal nutrition and health products 
allow for higher protein production, which 
enables a growing global population to be 
fed more efficiently and reduces the net 
total animal environmental footprint.
In 2019, the ANH business segment success -
fully concluded several years of research 
with the launch of AminoShure®-XM Preci -
sion Release Methionine. AminoShure®-XM 
utilizes Balchem’s new X encapsulation tech -
nology to deliver methionine to ruminant 
animals more efficiently and cost effectively, 
allowing dairy farmers to produce high-qual -
ity milk protein in a less expensive manner, 
with fewer inputs. 
 
AminoSure®-XM  
Precision Release  
Methionine
AminoShure®-XM Precision  
Release Methionine delivers the next 
generation in precision amino acid 
balancing technology. It protects 
methionine from degradation in the 
cow’s rumen for timed release, and 
increases bioavailability and nutri -
tional efficacy post-ruminally. 
Benefits of AminoShure®-XM:
• Greater efficiency 
• More milk protein – lower feed 
inputs
• Reduced environmental impact
90%
1948 1958 1968 1978 1988 1998 2008130%170%210%250%290%
Total agricultural output Total farm inputs
*Source: American Farm Bureau and United States Department of Agriculture’s Economic Research ServiceIndex, 
1948 = 
100%2015
Growth is driven by 
productivity gains, 
not more cropland  
or livestock.US farms are producing more food, feed, 
and fiber without using more resources, 
helping to save water and soil, enhance 
biodiversity, and conserve energy.+270%Balchem doesn’t only feed animals, we  
feed plants, too. Our plant micronutrient 
line provides minerals for crops. Using a 
unique technology, we solve mineral defi -
ciency in plants by delivering optimal min -
eral balance directly to the plant through 
a superior delivery system. The end result 
is healthier crops with larger yields and 
improved disease resistance. This approach 
also reduces the stress on land and  
water resources.15
FOOD SAFETY
Food safety is the foundation of our product 
quality, and we continuously strive to go 
above and beyond. To achieve this, Balchem 
maintains robust quality programs at our 
operating sites which are regularly audited 
by the appropriate regulatory agencies and 
independent certifying bodies, including 
expertise from the Food and Drug Adminis -
tration (FDA), Safe Quality Food (SQF), United 
States Pharmacopeia (USP), International 
Safe Feed/Safe Food (FAMI-QS), and others. 
Some of our unique product lines require 
additional certification audits for specific 
quality requirements, including kosher, 
non-GMO, and others. In 2019, to support 
our compliance objectives, we expanded our capability for self-audits by establishing 
and staffing a full-time corporate internal 
quality auditing function.
We continuously invest in improving  
our quality and food safety programs. In 
November 2018, we opened a new state-
of-the-art analytical and microbiology lab 
in Ogden, UT that expanded our testing and 
product development capabilities. The lab 
supports both our food and supplement 
product lines, and serves our other North 
American sites with testing capacity and 
technical support for test protocol devel -
opment. We take pride in finding ways to 
improve the quality of our products  
every day. 
Balchem continues to  
invest in people and technology in 
our new state-of-the-art chemistry 
and microbiology lab built at our 
Ogden, UT site. Supporting our food 
and supplement product lines, the 
lab serves our other North Ameri -
can sites with testing capacity and 
technical support for test protocol 
devel  opment.
product recalls issued2017  
02018  
02019  
0PEOPLE
Product stability testing and environmental chambersMicrobiological testing Physical testing
Wet chemistry and particle size testingNEW ANALYTICAL AND MICROBIOLOGY LAB IN OGDEN, UTAH16
PEOPLE
RAW MATERIAL SUPPLIERS
Quality continues with our suppliers. We 
recognize that we need to partner with the 
right suppliers to ensure product availability 
and integrity.
We have an active raw material quality 
sourcing approval program. The program 
includes an evaluation of the supplier’s 
quality program and the material being 
supplied, as well as verification of the sup -
plier’s preventative approach to food safety 
risks. In the food safety evaluation process, 
we consider how the product is made, how 
it is distributed, and the intended use. In 
2019, we completed on-site audits of higher risk suppliers and external warehouse  
qualification audits to ensure our raw  
material suppliers are in accordance  
with our metrics.
As such, Balchem maintains ongoing mea -
sures of key quality performance metrics, 
including supplier issues, customer com -
plaints, first-pass quality tracking, corrective 
action, and completion and follow-up site 
audits as required. We take customer feed -
back seriously and track customer com -
plaints, complaint investigations, corrective 
actions, and customer communication  
of complaint resolution.In 2019, we launched an  
additional program to further 
increase the prevention of foreign 
material in finished products. We  
also characterized short shelf life 
materials to increase the quality of 
our products. Through the evaluation 
of our raw materials, procedures, 
and processing systems, we identified 
a number of best practices to reduce 
risk, including:
• Incoming raw material testing
• Raw material and container handling
• Material screening techniques
• In-line detection devices
Step 1: Raw material sourcing, evaluation, and approval
SUPPLIER SCORECARD
Quality  
trackingCorrective  
actionFollow-up  
site auditStep 2: Site quality assurance program
Step 3: Transportation supplier qualificationHOW WE MANAGE QUALITY THROUGHOUT OUR SUPPLY CHAIN17
PEOPLE
HUMAN CAPITAL
Our employees are our most valued asset  
and fundamental to our success. We strive  
to develop employee skills and knowledge. 
The employee experience begins with an  
online onboarding portal, detailed informa -
tion regarding Balchem’s benefit program 
offerings, and employee handbook that 
provide extensive information on compa -
ny policies. Training is facilitated through 
our online system and features employee 
self-service training modules that docu -
ment the understanding and completion of 
assigned or required training. This system 
provides training for job-specific technical 
knowledge, regulatory requirements, and 
company policies, including Balchem’s Code 
of Conduct, anti-harassment and discrimina -
tion, foreign corrupt practices, antitrust, and 
various other compliance topics.
Our sponsored Employee Continuing 
Learning program offers a broad base of 
assistance for employees, including learn -
ing and development courses. Employees 
have access to healthy lifestyle discounts 
through our Wellness Center, as well as 
debt, legal, and financial counseling. Peak 
performance training and multiple online 
services and courses enable our employees 
to choose their own learning paths and work 
to achieve their future goals for education, 
finances, and overall well-being.
To ensure development of Balchem’s future 
leaders in 2019, we added leadership pro -
grams via the Thayer Leadership Devel -
opment Group and eCornell. The Thayer 
Leadership Development Group, which  
is offered through West Point, provides  Balchem is committed to providing a safe and collaborative 
work environment that encourages the growth and 
development of all employees.
a leadership curriculum focused on char -
acter, knowledge, and action. eCornell, a 
leader in online learning, contributes to our 
leadership development efforts through 
their leadership and expert-led courses. Our 
female leaders have an opportunity to take 
executive leadership courses with Cornell 
professors and other female leaders. This 
learning opportunity creates a unique com -
munity of female leaders and helps cultivate 
competencies and skills for career advance -
ment throughout Balchem.
We are continuously working to extend 
education and outreach opportunities 
beyond Balchem to the community at large, 
including engagement with local schools to 
highlight various career opportunities or 
local industry councils to collaborate and share best Human Capital practices within 
our industry. We provide financial support 
for employees to pursue degree programs, 
and on an annual basis, we award scholar -
ships to support the education of employ -
ees’ children through the Balchem Sons  
and Daughters Scholarship Program. 
During 2019, we doubled the number of 
scholarships provided to further demon -
strate our commitment to education and 
supporting the educational needs of our 
employees’ children.
BALCHEM SONS  
AND DAUGHTERS  
SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM
Since the program’s inception in 
2005, Balchem has proudly awarded 
$118,000 in scholarships to children of 
employees, helping them to achieve 
their educational goals. In 2019, we 
doubled the number of annual scholar -
ships offered, awarding 10 scholarships 
totaling $20,000.EMPLOYEE SUCCESS
Employee success starts with the  
expectation that all Balchem em -
ployees practice our core values:
 Always doing the  
 right thing
 Collaborating and  
 growing together
 Staying focused on  
 the customer
 Thinking big and  
 acting small
 Playing to win18
PEOPLE
Employee  
turnover
24%
HOURLY
23%
HOURLY20182019
7% 
SALARY
10% 
SALARYThrough our Balchem Women’s Impact 
Network (BWIN), we offer a platform for all 
women at Balchem to feel empowered and 
have an opportunity to thrive both profes -
sionally and personally. The BWIN group 
meets regularly and shares a wide array 
of topics addressing leadership, business 
success, and networking.
Our annual performance review process is 
an important, objective-based dialogue to 
foster continuous growth and development 
by providing an opportunity to establish 
goals and deliver feedback relative to each 
employee’s performance. Balchem’s annual 
review process is closely aligned with a for -
mal succession planning and talent review 
process designed to identify and develop 
the next generation of leaders. The results 
of our performance, talent, and succession 
planning practices are reviewed annually  
by Balchem’s leadership team and Board.
We are dedicated to providing full-time 
employees with a competitive compensation package that includes medical, dental, 
vision, and prescription benefits in addition 
to a 401K matching program. Balchem also 
provides financial support for health and 
wellness programs such as online financial 
wellness content, sponsored weight loss 
programs and subsidized gym member -
ships. We also provide generous time off 
and leave benefits, which are important to 
help ensure employees can enjoy a healthy 
balance between work and family time.
Diversity and inclusion are important 
elements of Balchem’s Human Resources 
strategy. In 2019, Balchem joined Women 
in Manufacturing, the only national trade 
organization in the US dedicated to provid -
ing support to women in the manufacturing 
industry. This organization assists us in 
increasing the diversity of our candidate 
pools, and, in 2019, the percentage of  
female hires in our manufacturing opera-  
tions increased by 35% over the prior year. EMPLOYEE HEADCOUNT  
(AS OF 12/31/19)
01150
2017 2018 20191,424*
1,1451,18412001250130013501400BALCHEM WOMEN’S  
IMPACT NETWORK  
(BWIN)
Established:  2018
Vision:  To inspire women of Balchem  
to capture their full potential.
Mission:  To build a platform that  
informs, develops, and empowers all  
of us to thrive both professionally  
and personally. 
Current Membership:  116
Employee diversity 
(gender)Management 
positions 
(gender)Board of Director 
positions (gender)St. Louis BWIN group and office celebrate International Women’s Day*Increase in headcount result of the Chemogas and 
Zumbro acquisitions in 2019.
76%
MALE
76%
MALE20182019
24% 
FEMALE
24% 
FEMALE77%
MALE
78%
MALE20182019
23% 
FEMALE
22% 
FEMALE87%
MALE
100%
MALE20182019
13% 
FEMALE
0% 
FEMALE19
ENABLING SAFE  
ENVIRONMENTS  
WITH AUTOMATION
Balchem products come in many 
packages. Handling and moving  
these packages increase the risk  
of repetitive motion injury. In 2019, 
Balchem invested additional capital  
to fully automate the packaging of 
cereal products at our facility in 
Lincoln, NE. This project was recently 
completed and has eliminated the 
risk of injury from the fast-paced 
repetitive movements that were 
previously required, and upgraded  
the facility to enable the continuing 
supply of high-quality, world-class 
products to our customers.ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH,  
SAFETY, AND SECURITY
Protecting the workplace environment and 
the health and safety of our employees, 
contractors, visitors, and neighbors is our 
top priority. In 2019, 11 of our 24 sites com -
pleted the year without a recordable injury, 
with our leading site achieving seven years 
without an incident. We continually upgrade 
our facilities to reduce risks and establish 
procedures with appropriate personnel 
protection for the safety of our employees. 
We expect all employees, visitors, and con -
tractors to take active personal ownership 
for their safety and the safety of others. 
Our safety program is structured around 
five pillars: process safety, personal safety, 
industrial hygiene, transportation safety,  
and environmental safety. 
We believe engaged employees will make 
the difference in meeting our objectives. 
In 2019, our programs focused on driving 
higher ownership and engagement from 
employee and contractor, as well as greater 
participation and communication. To ensure 
participation and communication we 
enacted an open-door policy, site sugges -
tion boxes, safety huddles prior to work, 
an anonymous corporate concern hotline, 
and employee site safety surveys. Our sites 
have standing safety committees with both 
employee and management participation 
that monitor Stop Taking Avoidable Risks 
(STAR) observations, prioritize risk reduction 
efforts, and drive our safe work recognition 
programs. PEOPLE
We aim to provide a safe and secure work environment, 
achieve zero injuries, and avoid worker exposure to  
harmful conditions.
STOP TAKING  
AVOIDABLE RISKS – STAR
In 2019, we expanded our STAR 
program commitment, a behavior-
based program to help employees 
identify safe and risky behaviors 
in our work practices, by setting 
a goal of observations per month 
for every employee and rewarding 
employees with the best observa-
tions. We received over 7,000 safety 
observations in 2019 from the 
Balchem sites that were employed  
to reduce risk and engage employ-  
ees in safe work practices.Cereal packaging line automation
20
PEOPLE
SAFETY DAY
We are all responsible for our safety 
and our fellow worker’s safety. We 
have been holding Safety Days where 
we take a full day with all employees 
and train, identify opportunities for 
risk reduction, and develop our skills 
in avoiding risks.Balchem conducts Job Safety Assessments 
(JSAs) to review the work environment 
for potential risks and to identify the 
necessary safety requirements. Our STAR 
program encourages employees to make  
observations and provide input on steps 
to improve our operations and create safe 
working conditions. We believe that good 
safety practices should be celebrated  
and have implemented a recognition and 
reward program for outstanding safety 
suggestions and model behavior at our 
sites. In 2019 we launched the Safety Day 
program where all employees at a facility 
spend the day training on safe practices, 
learning to recognize risks, assessing work 
places for risks, and building the safety 
culture. We held safety days in six locations, 
and the program will continue in 2020.TOTAL RECORDABLE INJURY RATE*
201700.51.01.52.0
2018 20191.061.32
*Rate defined by recordable injuries per 200,000 hours worked.1.32
Faribault Plant Safety DayREDUCING LIFTING  
INJURY RISKS
Lifting is a part of our daily opera -
tions. In 2019, we installed lifting 
assist devices in seven of our plants 
with the goal of reducing the heavy 
lifts in our facilities by 50% over the 
next 3 years. 
Ogden Plant21
Members of the county and local commu -
nity pack bags of food and deliver them 
to the students in the county elementary 
schools on a weekly basis.
We also look to help enrich our schools by 
volunteering to speak to students during 
career fairs. In 2019, Verona hosted teachers 
from area schools as part of Missouri State 
University Teacher Externship Program. This 
program partners employers and educators 
in an effort to connect classroom academ -
ic knowledge to real world business and 
industry application.
BRIDGETON  
COMMUNITY  
YARDWORK
In May of 2019, employees from our 
Bridgeton manufacturing facility 
spent the day volunteering with their 
families for their community. Tasks 
included performing yard work for the 
elderly and physically challenged. TURNING POINT  
PROGRAM
During 2019, Balchem employees from 
our Covington manufacturing facility 
participated in the Alleghany County 
Public School Turning Point program,  
in which the plant provided used 
pallets that were painted and sold to 
fund the school’s programs of choice.COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT
At Balchem, we pride ourselves in being 
members of the communities in which we 
work and continuously strive to support  
the local communities in a variety of ways. 
Various members of our team serve on  
community advisory panels and local 
emergency planning committees. This 
allows us to work side by side with city and 
county leaders to develop strong commu -
nity emergency protocols and communi -
cation. We have several team members 
serving as volunteer firemen and emergency 
medical technicians. This interaction enables 
us to share developments and growth of 
our facilities with our fellow community 
members while addressing any question  
 or concerns they may have. 
During 2019, members from our corporate 
office partnered with the Food Bank of the 
Hudson Valley, which is dedicated to alle -
viating hunger while preventing the waste 
of wholesome food. The Food Bank of the 
Hudson Valley is a branch of the Regional 
Food Bank of Northeastern New York and 
a member of Feeding America, the nation -
al food bank network. Working in partner -
ship with the food industry, the Food Bank 
collects large donations of unmarketable, 
but still edible, food and distributes it to 
charitable agencies feeding hungry people 
in a six-county region. Balchem volunteers 
sorted food and re-boxed items appropri -
ately to be weighed and placed on pallets, 
which were then delivered to nonprofit 
organizations such as food pantries, senior 
centers, shelters, after-school programs, 
soup kitchens, low-income day care cen -
ters, and others.
Balchem also strives to be active within 
our community schools by participating in 
programs such as Backpack Buddies. This 
program is a partnership with United Way 
to provide supplemental food to children 
in need, with the goal of making an impact 
on hunger within the designated counties. PEOPLE
Food Bank of the Hudson Valley
Defiance Plant Backpack Buddies Pallets repurposed by Turning Point Program –  
Covington Plant
Verona Plant Career Day with Missouri State University22
 
 
 5
PLANET23
PLANET
of all palm oil  
sourced certified 
through RSPO100%
=10%MATERIAL SOURCING
The raw materials and supplies that are 
used in our supply chain represent an im -
portant component to Balchem’s sustain -
ability commitment. We are committed not 
only to ensuring that we work to increase 
our use of renewable raw materials, and 
that all materials are manufactured within 
an ethically responsible framework, but that 
we also have a strong and diverse supply 
chain that supports our customers’ needs. 
We are committed to aligning our supply 
chains to source regionally and finding 
sources that are near our facilities. Our 
commitment not only reduces our carbon 
footprint by reducing the energy used in 
transit, but also increases the strength of 
our supplier network by bringing us closer to 
our upstream sources, allowing us to ensure 
quality, compliance, and strength of supply. 
This principle is illustrated through the fact that 95% of our raw materials originate in 
the United States or Europe, where  
the majority of our production occurs. 
Balchem remains a committed member 
of the Roundtable for Sustainable Palm 
Oil (RSPO), as well as a member of Sedex. 
Through our commitments as a member  
of RSPO, we source 100% of our palm oil 
needs from renewable (mass balance)  
sources. As a member of Sedex, we comply 
with the principles of the Sedex Members 
Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA), which estab -
lishes best practices for environmental 
and business ethics. We are committed to 
ensuring compliance with SMETA at all of 
our facilities. We view our suppliers as integral partners 
in our supply chain, and in 2019, we updated 
our Supplier Code of Conduct. This docu -
ment, to which we now require confirmation 
of compliance from all active suppliers,  
is based on Balchem’s core values, and  
requires commitment to sustainable busi -
ness practices.
As part of our commitment to responsible 
sourcing and exercising due diligence, 
Balchem works closely with chemical sup -
pliers to audit their facilities. 75% of these 
suppliers have been audited within the last 
three years, which is up from 70% in our last 
sustainability report. We are committed to responsible sourcing  
and to encouraging our suppliers to employ  
sustainable practices.
Regional diversity in raw materials and supplies1% 
OTHER1% 
CHINA77% 
USA
3% 
ASIA (EX. CHINA)18% 
EUROPE24
ENERGY MANAGEMENT
Balchem utilizes low energy-intensive  
processes to manufacture our products.  
Reducing energy consumption is envi -
ronmentally sound and a good business 
practice. Each year we identify key opportu -
nities to upgrade and modernize our energy 
systems and our sources, as well as opportu -
nities to efficiently use energy in our process -
es and facilities. 
In 2019, a number of significant energy 
reduction projects were realized. Our Slate 
Hill manufacturing site was upgraded from 
a single-phase electrical system to a more 
energy efficient three-phase system, which 
enables multiple systems in the plant to be 
equipped with variable speed drives and 
allows for more efficient power utilization. 
As a result, the manufacturing site real -
ized a 12.7% reduction in electrical energy 
consumption while producing 11.8% more 
pounds of food ingredient encapsulated 
products in 2019. At another major site, Bridgeton, we mod -
ernized a portion of its lighting systems 
by replacing conventional fixtures with 
more efficient LED fixtures. The upgraded 
fixtures not only contributed to a measur -
able reduction in consumption of electrical 
energy, but they also increased the lumen 
in the improved areas, resulting in a safer 
and more pleasant work environment. 
Bridgeton will continue with its lighting 
upgrades in 2020 with a goal of achieving 
a 3% energy saving for the plant and an 
improved work environment. PLANET
SLEEPY EYE BOILER
The Sleepy Eye site completed their 
replacement of an older boiler in 2018 
as an energy improvement oppor -
tunity. The new boiler gas efficiency 
increased from 75% to 86%. For 2019 
operations, the efficiency increase was 
confirmed to use 7.5% less natural gas 
per kilogram of product produced.12.7% 
reduction in electrical  
energy consumption at  
our Slate Hill siteWe are continuously looking for ways to improve our 
energy efficiency and reduce our environmental impact. 
LED lighting in Bridgeton Plant
Sleepy Eye Boiler25
WASTE MANAGEMENT
Our Covington site identified high waste gen -
eration levels in several product lines in 2019. 
The site worked with our technologists to de -
velop raw material specifications and process 
operating parameters to reduce variation 
and the amount of solid waste generated 
during the production of PetShure® product 
lines. This resulted in a more consistent 
product that generated a reduction of over 
44,000 pounds of solid waste.
The Bridgeton and Verona manufacturing 
sites moved to reusable plastic pallets for 
product pre-weigh setups and in-process 
transfer drums. The plastic pallets are easy to 
clean and last longer than alternative pallets. 
The Verona manufacturing site also uses 
dedicated totes for intern transfer of product 
in the production of dry choline, which allows 
the totes to be reused numerous times. PLANET
Balchem facilities work to reduce waste products and,  
with local businesses, to reuse and recycle packaging.
Plastic pallet used for movement of in-process materials
99%
of hazardous waste has  
been reused or recycled
75%
of hazardous material suppliers  
were audited in the last three years2
2) Balchem defines hazardous materials as ethylene oxide, 
trimethylamine, hydrochloric acid, anhydrous ammonia, 
propylene oxide, and carbon disulfide. 26
PLANET
WATER MANAGEMENT
Balchem uses water in both our products 
and during the manufacturing process. By 
changing the way we think about our water 
usage, we will continue to improve our  
water efficiency. In 2019, we focused on 
process water efficiency opportunities. Our 
St. Gabriel manufacturing site replaced its 
main cooling tower and completed the re -
furbishment of the process scrubber sys -
tems. The efficiency of the new cooling tow -
er resulted in significant energy savings, 
and when combined with improvements 
to the process scrubber, we achieved a 
18.2% reduction in water consumption. We 
also reduced the required chemical water 
treatment for each system by lessening 
the amount of fresh makeup water to the 
process system. 
We pride ourselves on actively looking 
for water consumption and energy usage 
savings projects. During 2019, Balchem 
took on steam improvement projects to 
improve condensate returns to the boilers 
in three manufacturing sites: Bridgeton, 
Ogden, and Verona. We aim to save water by 
recycling, reduce energy by recovering the 
heat, and decrease the amount of additives 
needed to condition the boiler water at  
each site.
Water consumption reduction via an upgraded cooling tower in St. Gabriel, LA10.87 M3
water intensity (cubic meters of  
water withdrawal per metric ton of  
product produced)
0%
water withdrawal from  
regions with high or extremely high  
baseline water stress27
 
 
 6
PROFIT28
PROFIT
“At our core, we are a health and nutrition company.”
OUR FOUNDATION
We are committed to operating responsi -
bly and efficiently to ensure our long-term 
business success. 
Over Balchem’s 50-plus year history, we 
have focused on creating long-term value 
which helps ensure our financial sustainabil -
ity. Our ambition is to build a stronger and 
more vibrant company that meaningfully 
contributes to making the world a healthier 
place by delivering trusted, innovative, and 
science-based solutions to the nutrition, 
food, sterilization, and energy markets. We 
are operating responsibly and efficiently to 
ensure our long-term business success, and 
providing the service, quality, and technol -
ogy that enables our customers to win with 
their customers. As a result, we have built a 
reputation for delivering results to all of our 
stakeholders. 
In 2019, we delivered record financial per -
formance while maintaining a strong capital 
structure. We are continuously making 
progress on choline, mineral, and amino 
acid nutritional understanding and aware -
ness, and our investments in new product 
development, external studies, and new 
science development are making a difference 
for the future advancement of our human, 
animal, and plant nutrition franchises. Our 
investment in external research and studies 
are also making a difference, including  
work we are doing with our partners within 
the HNH industry on child cognition, the  
development of a choline bio-marker,  
the exploration of the synergies between  
Choline and DHA absorption, the develop -
ment of next-generation mineral chelates, 
the development of a unique treatment  
for autism, and all of the work we are  — Ted Harris, Chairman and CEO
investing in to explore the broad ranging 
benefits of choline, mineral, and amino acid 
nutrition for monogastric and ruminant 
species within ANH.
Balchem continues to actively pursue syn -
ergistic acquisitions which complement our 
organic growth strategy. As a result, we have 
expanded our global competitive position. 
In 2019, we completed the acquisitions of 
Chemogas N.V. (Chemogas) and Zumbro Riv -
er Brand, Inc. (Zumbro). Our integration of 
Chemogas into our Specialty Products seg -
ment enables Balchem to offer worldwide 
service and support to our medical device 
sterilization customers. Zumbro specializes 
in developing, marketing, and manufactur -
ing agglomerated and extruded products 
for the food and beverage industry and is a 
market leader in high-protein and specialty 
extruded snacks, cereals, and crisps, mar -
keted under the brands Z-Crisps®, Whey-Os™, revenue from products developed  
in the past five years27.6%20182019
24.7%
Bridgeton Production Team staying focused on the customerWhey-Vs™, and Z-Texx Complete™. Zumbro 
has been integrated within Balchem’s 
Human Nutrition and Health segment and 
enhances our broad portfolio of nutritional 
solutions in the food and beverage industry.29
ADJUSTED EBITDA*
$100M$200M
$150M
2017 2018 2019$160.0M $159.9M
$147.8MPROFIT
OUR GOVERNANCE
We have established leading practices in 
corporate governance. Each of Balchem’s 
directors, other than our Chairman and CEO, 
Ted Harris, is independent, as defined by the 
National Association of Securities Dealers 
Automated Quotations (NASDAQ) Market -
place Rules. All directors have attended 
100% of our Board and Board Committee 
meetings during the course of the last ten 
years. We strongly encourage directors to 
also attend the annual stockholder meeting, 
and 100% of our directors attended the 
annual meeting last year. By switching to a 
virtual annual meeting, we hope to increase 
attendance of shareholders and interested 
parties to the annual meetings while also 
reducing materials and cost. These practices 
are designed not only to satisfy regulatory 
requirements, but to provide effective com -
pany oversight and management.
Our Board and management, who are  
experienced in the businesses and markets 
we serve, are compensated to enhance 
shareholder value. The compensation  system outlined in our annual proxy state -
ment –  https://www.balchem.com/inves -
tor-relations/  – is designed to align man -
agement and director compensation with 
financial results and shareholder return.
To oversee the Sustainability Framework 
and prioritization process, we convened a 
cross-functional executive steering commit -
tee, led by the Chairman and CEO, with rep -
resentatives from business units, finance, 
investor relations, human resources, R&D, 
internal audit, law, supply chain, and opera -
tions. The charter of the Board’s Corporate 
Governance and Nominating Committee 
(CG&N Committee) requires that group to 
consider corporate social responsibility mat -
ters, and, in the past 18 months, we updated 
this charter to more explicitly place respon -
sibility for ESG matters within the purview 
of this committee. These considerations 
include reviewing Balchem’s activities and 
practices regarding ESG matters significant 
to Balchem’s businesses. There is also a pe -
riodic review of the company’s ESG strategy, initiatives, and policies. The CG&N Commit -
tee receives updates from the management 
committee responsible for significant ESG 
activities.
Additionally, in terms of our corporate  
governance over the past year, we have:
• Updated and amended our Corporate 
Governance Guidelines to more accurate -
ly reflect our company’s commitment 
to seeking and electing diverse board 
members.
• Elected to our Board, Joyce Lee, who has 
immense experience as a senior execu -
tive in leading companies in the Animal 
Health industry.
• Increased our gender diversity on our 
Board to 13% women.
In addition to our Sustainability Framework, 
we have adopted a Code of Ethics for Senior 
Financial Officers that applies to Balchem’s 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Chief 
Financial Officer and Chief Accounting 
Officer and Treasurer. We have also adopt -
ed a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics 
applicable to all of our employees and direc -
tors. The Code of Ethics for Senior Financial 
Officers and Code of Business Conduct and 
Ethics are available at https://www.balchem.
com/investor-relations/.
TSR measured from 2015 to 20195-YEAR TOTAL  
SHAREHOLDER RETURN (TSR)  
VS RUSSELL 2000 INDEX
19.2% (1,917 bps)REVENUE
$550M$650M
$600M
2017 2018 2019$643.7M $643.7M
$594.8M
*Adjusted EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest,  
other expense/income, taxes, depreciation, amortization, 
stock-based compensation, acquisition-related expenses, 
indemnification settlements, legal settlements, and the fair 
valuation of acquired inventory.30
PROFIT
RISK MANAGEMENT
Balchem recognizes that risk is inherent to 
any business activity and that managing 
risk effectively is critical to the immediate 
and future success of the company. Our 
Board provides direct risk oversight and 
the Board’s Audit Committee provides 
direct oversight of our Enterprise Risk 
Management (ERM) program. Our ERM 
program is based on the Committee of 
Sponsoring Organizations of the Tread -
way Commission (COSO) ERM Integrated 
Framework. Our Board, Audit Committee, 
and management regularly discuss our 
major risk exposures, the potential impact, 
and the management of these risks. The 
Audit Committee receives and arranges 
for the Board to receive periodic reports 
from management on areas of material 
risk, including financial, operational, legal, 
regulatory, and strategic risks.
While we do not have a Chief Risk Officer, 
the Audit Committee receives regular 
reports from the member of management 
tasked with understanding and monitor -
ing key risk mitigation. The Chairman of the 
Audit Committee reports to the full Board 
with respect to Balchem’s risk manage -
ment efforts, which enables the Board to 
monitor risks and oversee risk mitigation 
efforts. The Compensation Committee 
also evaluates risk related to our compen -
sation program.ESG FRAMEWORK POLICIES
As part of our continued risk management and governance practices, Balchem 
has several policies in place related to our ESG framework:
• Anti-bribery Policy
• California Consumer Privacy  
 Act Policy
• Code of Business Conduct  
 and Ethics
• Corporate Statement on the  
 California Supply Chain Act• Corporate Statement on  
 Conflict Minerals
• Environmental Compliance Policy
• Risk Management Policy
• Safety and Health Policy
• Supplier Code of Conduct
GAAP EARNINGS PER SHARE
$2.0$3.0
$2.5$2.45
2017 2018 2019$2.42$2.79
FREE CASH FLOW CONVERSION
50%200%
150%
100%121%
2017 2018 2019127%
92%GAAP net earnings$79.7M201931
 
 
We hope that Balchem’s 2019 Sustainability Report allows for a 
better understanding of how we integrate sustainability into our 
strategy, operations, and business decisions. The focus, priorities, 
and actions outlined in the report form the foundation of our com -
mitment, and we are proud to share these achievements. We are 
dedicated to a sustainable future for our customers, suppliers, and We are dedicated to a sustainable future for our customers, 
suppliers, employees, communities, and shareholders where  
we live and work.
stakeholders where we live and work. As we grow, we will continue 
to promote these principles broadly along the entire value chain, to 
develop new ideas and technologies that help us work smarter, and 
to help build a world that is a better place to live. For more informa -
tion about Balchem Corporation, please visit www.balchem.com.
CONCLUSION32
 
 
 7
APPENDIX33
APPENDIX: GRI INDEX
GRI INDEX 
This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. The topics addressed in this report were identified and 
prioritized by engaging a wide range of stakeholders internally and externally (see  About Our Report ). Through this process, we identified ESG 
topics that are material to our company, some of which are covered by GRI Standards. Those topics are included in this GRI Index. Based on 
availability of data, not all GRI disclosures are reported fully. For more information on GRI Standards, visit https://www.globalreporting.org/
standards .
Disclosure Number Description  Location and Notes
GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE
102-1 Name of the organization Our Mission
102-2 Activities, brands, products,  
and servicesMessage from Our Chairman and CEO
102-3 Location of headquarters 2018 Annual Report
102-4 Location of operations2018 Annual Report
102-5 Ownership and legal form 2018 Annual Report
102-6 Markets served 2018 Annual Report
102-7 Scale of the organization2018 Annual Report
102-8 Information on employees and  
other workersPeople – Human Capital
102-9 Supply chain Planet – Material Sourcing
102-10 Significant changes to the  
organization and its supply chainAbout Our Report
102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Profit
102-12 External initiativesIncluded throughout the report34
Disclosure Number Description  Location and Notes
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE (CONTINUED)
102-13 Membership associations Management is officers or members of, or support, the  
following associations:
• American Chemical Council – Ethylene Oxide Safety  
Task Group
• American Chemical Council – Ethylene Oxide/Ethylene  
Glycols Management Committee
• American Chemical Society
• American Dairy Science Association
• American Feed Industry Association
• American Institute of CPAs (AICPA)
• American Registry of Professional Animal Scientists (ARPAS)
• American Society of Quality
• EU Association of Specialty Feed Ingredients and their  
Mixtures (FEFANA)
• Hudson Valley Council of Industry
• Institute for Feed Education and Research (IFEEDER)
• Poultry Science Association
• The Council for Responsible Nutrition (CRN)
• The Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA)
• US Poultry Federation
STRATEGY
102-14 Statement from senior decision makerMessage from Our Chairman and CEO
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Included throughout the report, by topics
ETHICS AND INTEGRITY
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and  
norms of behaviorBalchem Corporation Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns 
about ethicsBalchem Corporation Code of Business Conduct and EthicsAPPENDIX: GRI INDEX35
Disclosure Number Description  Location and Notes
GOVERNANCE
102-18, 101-20, 102-27 Governance structure Profit – Our Governance
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Message from Our Chairman and CEO
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Balchem has established good working relationships at the 
Verona, MO, Marano Ticino, Italy, and Bertinoro, Italy sites. In 
2019, approximately 10% of our employees were represented  
by collective bargaining agreements.
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders About Our Report
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement About Our Report
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised About Our Report
REPORTING PRACTICE
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 
financial statements2018 Annual Report
102-46 Defining report content and  
topic BoundariesAbout Our Report
102-47 List of material topics About Our Report
102-48 Restatements of information There have been no changes in reporting from the previous year. 
102-49 Changes in reporting There have been no changes in reporting from the previous year. 
102-50 Reporting period About Our Report
102-51 Date of most recent report About Our ReportAPPENDIX: GRI INDEX36
Disclosure Number Description  Location and Notes
REPORTING PRACTICE (CONTINUED)
102-52 Reporting cycle About Our Report
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding  
the reportsustainability@balchem.com
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance  
with the GRI Appendix – GRI Index
102-55 GRI content index Appendix – GRI Index
102-56 External assurance There is no external assurance obtained over the People and 
Planet pillars. Profit financial data that is listed in the 10-K has 
been audited.
GRI 301: MATERIALS 2016
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and  
its boundaryAbout Our Report
2019 acquisition data is not included in energy, water and waste 
management metrics.
103-2 The management approach and  
its componentsPlanet – Material Sourcing
103-3 Evaluation of the management  
approachPlanet – Material Sourcing
TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES
301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Planet – Material Sourcing
Total volume of materials (lbs):  
Renewable – 315.9M  
Non-renewable – 390.9MAPPENDIX: GRI INDEX37
GRI 303: WATER AND EFFLUENTS 2018
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and  
its boundaryAbout Our Report
103-2 The management approach and  
its componentsPlanet – Water Management
103-3 Evaluation of the management  
approachPlanet – Water Management
MANAGEMENT APPROACH DISCLOSURES
303-1 Interactions with water as a  
shared resourceWe performed water scarcity research (refer to Planet – Water 
Management ) and determined that there is no water withdrawn 
from high water stress areas. Disclosure Number Description  Location and Notes
GRI 302: ENERGY 2016
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and  
its boundaryAbout Our Report
103-2 The management approach and  
its componentsPlanet – Energy Management
103-3 Evaluation of the management  
approachPlanet – Energy Management
TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES
302-3 Energy intensity Planet – Energy ManagementAPPENDIX: GRI INDEX38
Disclosure Number Description  Location and Notes
MANAGEMENT APPROACH DISCLOSURES (CONTINUED)
303-2 Management of water discharge  
related impactsBalchem works with local municipalities as facilities discharge 
water into municipal sources, except for one location which is 
tightly controlled. We do not operate any plants that are located in 
high-stress water regions. The results of the water stress analysis 
(refer to Planet – Water Management ) were shared with the steering 
committee, who oversees water management stewardship.
TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES
303-3 Water withdrawalPlanet – Water Management
Total water withdrawn M3: 
2019 – 3,857,133
Water intensity (cubic meters withdrawn per  
metric ton of products produced):  
2019 – 10.87  
2018 – 11.5  
2017 – 12.7
GRI 305: EMISSIONS 2016
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and  
its boundaryAbout Our Report
103-2 The management approach and  
its componentsPlanet – Energy Management
103-3 Evaluation of the management  
approachPlanet – Energy Management
TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) greenhouse  
gas emissionsPlanet – Energy Management
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) greenhouse  
gas emissionsPlanet – Energy Management
503-4 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity Total greenhouse gas emissions intensity  
(metric tons/revenue in millions):  
2019 – 116  
2018 – 115  
2017 – 120APPENDIX: GRI INDEX39
Disclosure Number Description  Location and Notes
GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 2016
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and  
its boundaryAbout Our Report
103-2 The management approach and  
its componentsPlanet – Waste Management
103-3 Evaluation of the management  
approachPlanet – Waste Management
TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Planet – Waste Management
Total weight of hazardous waste (metric tons): 113.0
GRI 308: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 2016
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and  
its boundaryAbout Our Report
103-2 The management approach and  
its componentsPeople – Food Safety
103-3 Evaluation of the management  
approachPeople – Food Safety
MANAGEMENT APPROACH DISCLOSURES
308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the 
supply chain and actions takenPeople – Food Safety
8 out of 12 hazardous material suppliers were audited in 2019;  
75% of total hazardous waste suppliers have been audited  
in the past three years. APPENDIX: GRI INDEX40
Disclosure Number Description  Location and Notes
GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 2018
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and  
its boundaryAbout Our Report
103-2 The management approach and  
its componentsPeople – Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security
103-3 Evaluation of the management  
approachPeople – Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security
MANAGEMENT APPROACH DISCLOSURES
403-1 Occupational health and safety  
management systemPeople – Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment 
and incident investigationPeople – Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security
Refer to JSAs and STAR program
403-3 Occupational health services People – Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security
Refer to JSAs and STAR program
403-4 Worker participation, consultation  
and communication on occupational 
health and safetyPeople – Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security
Refer to JSAs and STAR program
403-5 Worker training on occupational  
health and safetyPeople – Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security
Safety training is performed by employees on at least an annual 
basis and is also integrated into a daily practice with tool talks and 
pre-shift huddles. We have held safety days at sites where the site 
will spend the entire day on safety related activities. Our leader -
ship and Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security professionals 
receive continuing education.
403-6 Promotion of worker health People – Human Capital
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupa -
tional health and safety impacts directly 
linked by business relationshipsPeople – Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security
TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES
403-9 Work-related injuries People – Environmental, Health, Safety, and SecurityAPPENDIX: GRI INDEX41
Disclosure Number Description  Location and Notes
GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 2016
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and  
its boundaryAbout Our Report
103-2 The management approach and  
its componentsPeople – Human Capital
103-3 Evaluation of the management  
approachPeople – Human Capital
TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies  
and employeesPeople – Human Capital
GRI 413: LOCAL COMMUNITIES 2016
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and  
its boundaryAbout Our Report
103-2 The management approach and  
its componentsPeople – Community Involvement
103-3 Evaluation of the management  
approachPeople – Community Involvement
TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES
413-1 Operations with local community  
engagement, impact assessments,  
and development programsPeople – Community InvolvementAPPENDIX: GRI INDEX42
APPENDIX: SASB INDEX
Code Description  Location and Notes
SUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
RT-CH-110a.1 Gross global Scope 1 emissions, percent -
age covered under emissions-limiting 
regulationsMeasuring Our Progress  and Appendix
RT-CH-110a.2 Discussion of long-term and short-term 
strategy or plan to manage Scope 1 emis -
sions, emissions reduction targets, and  
an analysis of performance against  
those targetsPlanet – Energy Management
WATER MANAGEMENT
RT-CH-140a.1 (1) Total water withdrawn, (2) total water 
consumed, percentage of each in regions 
with high or extremely high baseline  
water stressMeasuring Our Progress  and Appendix
RT-CH-140a.3 Description of water management risks 
and discussion of strategies and practices 
to mitigate those risksPlanet – Water Management
HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT
RT-CH-150a.1 Amount of hazardous waste generated, 
percentage recycledMeasuring Our Progress  and Appendix
COMMUNITY RELATIONS
RT-CH-210a.1 Discussion of engagement processes to 
manage risks and opportunities associat -
ed with community interestsPeople – Community InvolvementSASB INDEX 
This report reviewed the SASB framework as one of the key inputs for our material ESG topics. The below metrics are aligned with the SASB 
framework for the chemical industry, where Balchem is mapped by SASB. For more information on SASB standards, visit https://www.sasb.
org/standards-overview/.43
APPENDIX: SASB INDEX
Code Description  Location and Notes
SUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (CONTINUED)
WORKFORCE HEALTH AND SAFETY
RT-CH-320a.1 (1) Total recordable incident rate (TRIR) 
and (2) fatality rate for (a) direct employ -
ees and (b) contract employeesMeasuring Our Progress
RT-CH-320a.2 Description of efforts to assess, monitor, 
and reduce exposure of employees and 
contract workers to long-term (chronic) 
health risksPeople – Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security
MANAGEMENT OF THE LEGAL AND REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT
RT-CH-530a.1 Discussion of corporate positions related 
to government regulations and/or policy 
proposals that address environmental 
and social factors affecting the industryProfit – Our Governance44
APPENDIX: SDG INDEX
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS INDEX
PEOPLE
Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security
Human Capital
Community Involvement
Human Nutrition and Health
Animal Nutrition
Food Availability
PLANET
Energy Management
Water Management
Waste Management
Safety and Environmental Stewardship of Chemicals and Genetically Modified Organisms
Materials Sourcing Practices (e.g., palm oil)
Food Safety and Health Concerns
SDG INDEX 
This report reviewed the SDGs as one of the key inputs for our material ESG topics. Our material ESG topics relate to the following SDGs. For 
more information on the SDGs, visit https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/sdgs.