Making the World a Healthier Place — 
Our 2018 Sustainability Report
2
Every day, Balchem is delivering trusted solutions that enhance 
health and well-being through science. The two objectives of  
our sustainability strategy directly support our mission of mak -
ing the world a healthier place: providing innovative solutions 
for the health and nutritional needs of the world, and operating 
with excellence as strong stewards of our employees, customers, 
shareholders, and communities (our stakeholders). In developing 
our Sustainability Framework, we worked closely with our stake -
holders to identify the Environmental, Social, and Governance 
(ESG) topics most relevant to our business.OUR MISSION
Making the World a Healthier Place
One of our proud accomplishments is Balchem’s impact on  
1.3 billion people each year through human nutrition products,  
as well as people fed by animals supplemented with our  
vital nutrients. 
Our report highlights our efforts within three pillars: People, 
Planet, and Profit. We welcome you to join our sustainability 
journey to make the world a healthier place.
COMPANY
CULTUREPEOPLE
PROFIT PLANETMaking 
the World 
a Healthier 
Plac e
1.3 Billion People Reached in 2018
The total number of people impacted is calculated by the daily recommended doses of 
minerals, essential nutrients, and vitamins and the annual consumption of protein.Our Sustainability Framework 
 
 
   
 
employees, customers, shareholders, & communitiesOperate with excellence as strong stewards of our Provide innovative solutions for the health & nutritional needs of the world3
1MESSAGE FROM OUR 
CHAIRMAN AND CEO
2ABOUT  
OUR REPORT
3MEASURING  
OUR PROGRESS
4PEOPLE
5
6PLANET
PROFITTABLE OF 
CONTENTS
7APPENDIX4
1 
 
 
MESSAGE FROM OUR 
CHAIRMAN AND CEO5
Balchem has a long, distinguished history 
of creativity and innovation, all supported 
by our mission to make the world a health -
ier place. At our core we are a health and 
nutrition company.
While this is our first formal sustainability 
report, we spent the past 50 years passion -
ately engaged in developing and deliver -
ing innovative solutions for the nutritional 
needs of the world, while operating our 
facilities and businesses to the expecta -
tions of our employees, shareholders, and 
the communities within which we operate. 
We recognize that it is important for us 
to better communicate our sustainability 
ambitions, successes, and areas of priority, 
and, as a result, are providing this report 
and our vision.
Our strategy is inherently aligned with  
our business across segments  – Human 
Nutrition and Health, Animal Nutrition 
and Health, Specialty Products, and Indus -
trial Products. Among other products and 
solutions, our businesses supply minerals 
and essential nutrients to people and an -
imals all around the world with approx -
imately 1.3 billion people being positively 
impacted in some way by our products.
To confirm our commitment to Environ -
mental, Social, and Governance (ESG) topics, 
we engaged our customers, shareholders, 
and employees for input on the key priori -MESSAGE FROM OUR CHAIRMAN  
AND CEO
Sustainability is at the heart of  
our company’s mission to make 
the world a healthier place.
ties for Balchem’s sustainability strategy. In 
establishing our framework we have stayed 
true to our two main objectives: providing 
innovative solutions for the health and nu -
tritional needs of the world, and operating 
with excellence as strong stewards of our 
people, communities, and shareholders.
Our employees are connected with their 
communities and share their time and  
resources. Balchem supports efforts to  
find novel ways to help, give back, and 
build strong places to live. 
The safety, health, and security of our 
employees, business partners, and com -
munities are of primary concern in the 
operation of our facilities. We have global 
initiatives to reduce employee injuries 
with the goal of zero injuries and are proud 
of the progress we have made over the 
last several years. There is a lot more to  
do, however, and our journey is one of  
continuous improvement. Our ambition  
is to build a stronger and more vibrant 
company that meaningfully contributes  
to a healthier world for all of us. This  
report will share the foundation we  
have built and communicate our goals  
and commitment to these objectives.
I am proud of the contributions of all our 
employees, suppliers, and business part -
ners who are dedicated to our vision and 
to advancing our progress on this journey.
Ted Harris  
Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerOUR FOUR  
BUSINESS SEGMENTS
Human Nutrition and Health:  
Provides food ingredients for the 
beverage, dairy, and bakery markets 
and human minerals, nutrients, and 
vitamins.
Animal Nutrition and Health:  
Supplies science-based animal feed 
nutritional ingredients and solutions 
for better animal productivity and 
wellness.
Specialty Products:  Promotes  
human health by ensuring the safe 
and timely supply of critical steriliza -
tion technology to the medical and 
food industries.
Industrial Products:  Supplies  
environmentally friendly products  
for the energy industry.
TO OUR EMPLOYEES, CUSTOMERS, SHAREHOLDERS, AND COMMUNITIES:6
 
 
 2
ABOUT  
OUR REPORT7
Material ESG TopicsOur first sustainability report is intended 
to formalize how we communicate our 
efforts to stakeholders and demonstrate 
our dedication to continuous improve-
ment. The issues addressed in this 
report were identified and prioritized 
by engaging a wide range of internal 
and external stakeholders. Our process 
included:
• Convening a cross-functional exec-  
utive steering committee with 
representatives from business units, 
finance, investor relations, human 
resources, R&D, internal audit, supply 
chain, and operations
• Interviews with a broad range of 
executives and functional leaders 
relevant to sustainability issues
• Discussions with some of our largest  
shareholders and customers
• Reviewing leading standards and 
frameworks such as the Global Re -
porting Initiative (GRI), Sustainability 
Accounting Standards Board (SASB),  
and the UN Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs)
This report has been prepared in accor-
dance with the GRI Standards: Core option. 
Unless otherwise noted, the scope of the 
metrics and information presented in this 
report is equivalent to those considered in 
our annual financial report and includes 
the operations of all subsidiaries. These 
metrics reflect the results of 12 months of 
operations ending on December 31, 2018.We are committed to making the world a healthier place 
by providing solutions for the health and nutritional 
needs of the world and operating responsibly. ABOUT OUR REPORT
   
 
    
 
PEOPLE
PROFIT PLANET
PEOPLE
 Human Nutrition  
 and Health  
 Animal Nutrition
 Food Availability  
 Food Safety and  
 Health Concerns
 Human Capital
 Environmental,  
 Health, Safety,  
 and Security
 Community  
 InvolvementPLANET
  Materials Sourcing Practices  
 Energy Management
 Waste Management
 Water Management
 Safety and Environmental  
 Stewardship of Chemicals and  
 Genetically Modified Organisms
PROFIT
 Foundation
 Governance
 Risk Management  8
 
 
 3
MEASURING  
OUR PROGRESS9
MEASURING OUR PROGRESS
1.3 billion  – number of people 
reached per year10.2 billion  – number of animals 
reached per year27.6%  – revenue from products 
developed in the past five years
1.06  – total recordable injury  
rate (TRIR)0.61 GJ  – energy intensity  
(GJ of energy per ton of  
product produced)
73,726  – scope 1 and scope 2 
greenhouse gas emissions  
(CO2e metric tons)$643.7M  – total revenue
23%  – hourly employee turnover
10%  – salary employee turnover11.5 CBM  – water intensity (cubic 
meters of water withdrawal per 
metric ton of product produced)
1.8%  – water withdrawal from 
regions with high or extremely 
high baseline water stress$159.9M  – adjusted EBITDA**
76%  males, 24%  females –  
employee diversity99%  – hazardous waste  
reused or recycled
70%  – hazardous material  
suppliers audited in the last  
3 years*$78.6M  – GAAP net earnings
$2.42  – GAAP earnings per share
75%  – R&D focused on health 
and nutrition 100%  – of palm oil sourced  
certified through RSPO 
43%  – raw materials from  
renewable resources127%  – free cash flow conversion 
100%  – manufacturing sites  
with local community  
engagement efforts0 – product recalls21.1%  – 5-year total shareholder  
return (TSR) vs Russell 2000 IndexMaking 
the World 
a Healthier 
Plac e
PEOPLE PLANET PROFIT
Note: Scorecard metrics represent priority focus areas, but additional metrics may be disclosed to satisfy analyst needs. The number of people reached is calculated by the 
daily recommended dose of vitamins and annual consumption of protein in 2018. *Balchem defines hazardous materials as Ethylene Oxide, Trimethyl Amine, Hydrochloric Acid, 
Anhydrous Ammonia, Propylene Oxide, and Carbon Disulfide. **Adjusted EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, other expense/income, taxes, depreciation, amortization, 
stock-based compensation, acquisition-related expenses, indemnification settlements, legal settlements, and the fair valuation of acquired inventory.10
 
 
 4
PEOPLE11
HUMAN NUTRITION AND HEALTH
Good nutrition is the foundation of good 
health, and Balchem’s Human Nutrition 
and Health (HNH) segment is dedicated 
to making nutrient-rich products with 
numerous wellness applications. Our 
HNH segment is the world leader in provid -
ing choline, a human nutrient, under the 
brand “VitaCholine®”, and a broad range of 
specialty organic chelated minerals for ef -
ficient human metabolic utilization under 
the Albion Minerals brand.
Recent studies demonstrate choline’s 
broad role in human health, and in May of 
2016, the FDA established a Recommended 
Dietary Intake (RDI) of 550mg/day. With 
90% of the US population failing to achieve 
adequate choline intake, the US Govern -
ment has defined choline as a key “short-
fall nutrient.” 
To advance scientific understanding of 
choline and the important role it plays  
in human physiology, Balchem has estab -
lished a Research Fellowship at the Nutri -
tion Research Institute of the University of 
North Carolina, Chapel Hill (UNC). Balchem 
has also funded research to establish a 
reliable laboratory biomarker that would 
help identify those at risk for choline 
deficiency. In 2017, our study served as 
the basis upon which UNC received a 
$2.6M grant from the US National Institute 
of Health to expand the choline biomarker 
work. In line with our commitment to re -
search and development (R&D), 75% of our 
R&D expenditures are focused on health 
and nutrition, showcasing our continued PEOPLE
commitment to advancements in making 
the world a healthier place.
Choline plays a key role in neurological  
and cognitive development, gene reg -
ulation, membrane integrity, and lipid 
transport, which supports liver and muscle 
health. The importance of choline in infant 
development and the health of pregnant 
women has been well documented for 
many years. Choline is a staple of infant 
formula and, based on new and compel -
ling research, is poised to become a key 
ingredient for prenatal supplements due 
to its enduring benefits for neurological 
development in infants, toddlers, and  
older children.
In addition to choline, our HNH segment’s 
minerals portfolio offers a broad range 
of specialty organic mineral solutions. 
The portfolio includes iron, magnesium, 
calcium, and zinc, as well as many other 
trace minerals, all produced by unique 
and specialized methods. These amino 
acid chelated compounds are designed 
to deliver human-grade minerals with im -
proved bioavailability, better tolerability, 
and lower interaction characteristics.75% 
R&D funds focused on  
health and nutritionOur HNH segment’s food ingredient busi -
ness has partnered with customers to 
develop powdered nutritional proteins  
and healthy fats for the beverage and 
sports nutrition markets. These product 
lines include vegan, non-GMO, and organic 
solutions to the rapidly developing nutri -
tional food market. Our unique ability to 
formulate flexible processing technology 
broadens customer options and acceler -
ates the development of healthy nutritional 
food solutions.
of the US population 
does not achieve  
adequate choline 
intake90%
=10%In 2016, we reformulated  
our food ingredient products to remove 
partially hydrogenated oils (PHOs. 
PHOs contain trans fats which raise 
LDL cholesterol. Elevated LDL levels are 
associated with increased risk of heart 
attack. To provide broader nutrition 
solutions, Balchem is developing reac -
tive granulation platform technology, a 
process for multiple mineral chelating 
(CCMG, MLGG, DMCG – all nutritional 
ingredients for human health).“Our goal is to bring together marketing, research, 
quality, and production to reduce the development 
time to market of new and impactful human 
nutritional solutions.”
— Jim Hyde, VP-GM of Human Nutrition and Pharma12
ANIMAL NUTRITION AND  
FOOD AVAILABILITY
Balchem is focused on the nutritional 
needs of both production and companion 
animals around the globe, and we invest 
extensive resources in our internal R&D 
efforts, as well as with leading academic 
institutions, in the field of animal science 
and nutrition. The global expanding popu -
lation and stress on resources will require 
new solutions. We are invested in meeting 
this challenge and ensuring the success of 
a sustainable global food system.
As a leader in animal feed technologies, 
we are driving the innovations that will 
change our future. We will help livestock 
producers accomplish more with less, 
discover unique products that will produce 
food more efficiently and move us toward 
a more secure, sustainable food chain. 
Our extensive line of specialty nutrients 
helps support the health and productiv -
ity of many animals – ruminants, poultry, 
swine, horses, aquaculture, and companion 
animals – with products optimized for 
the unique needs of each species. Again, 
choline plays a vital role. It’s an essential 
nutrient for poultry and swine livestock, as 
it positively affects their health, productiv -
ity, and longevity. For the average dairy 
cow, choline boosts milk production by 
an additional 1,400 pounds per cow, per 
year, and also helps to ensure the health, 
growth, and productivity of her newborn 
calf throughout its life. 
Our Animal Nutrition and Health (ANH) 
business segment provides nutritional 
products formulated with natural and 
nutritional ingredients, including choline 
chloride, amino acids, minerals, and a 
variety of other important supplements. 
Balchem’s proprietary microencapsulation 
and chelation technologies ensure efficient 
delivery of essential nutrients to pets and 
livestock. Our animal products contribute 
to their overall health, growth, and perfor -
mance, as well as the more responsible 
use of resources. ANH products allow for PEOPLE
 
ReaShure® precision release  
choline, a major technological 
breakthrough, protects choline  
in the cow’s digestive tract for  
time-released, bioavailability,  
and nutritional efficacy.
 Higher milk  
 production
 Fewer metabolic  
 problems
 Essential nutrientReaShure®higher protein production, which enables 
a growing global population to be fed 
more efficiently and reduces the net total 
animal environmental footprint.
With our NitroShure™ product line, we 
are able to provide precision release of 
nitrogen in ruminants’ diets. This allows 
better utilization of home-grown forages, 
which, in turn, reduces the amount of 
land required to support profitable milk 
production and the amount of nitrogen 
excreted into the environment by as much 
as 40%. 
Our plant micro-nutrient line provides 
minerals for crops. Using a unique technol -
ogy, we solve mineral deficiency in plants 
by delivering optimal mineral balance 
directly to the plant through a superior 
delivery system. The end result is healthier 
crops with larger yields and improved dis -
ease resistance. This approach also reduces 
the stress on land and water resources.
1,400 LBS
of additional milk produced  
per cow, per year
13
PEOPLE
Step 1: Raw Material Sourcing, Evaluation, and Approval
SUPPLIER SCORECARD
Quality  
TrackingCorrective  
ActionFollow-up  
Site AuditStep 2: Site Quality Assurance Program
Step 3: Transportation Supplier QualificationHOW WE MANAGE QUALITY THROUGHOUT OUR SUPPLY CHAINFOOD SAFETY
Food safety is a top priority. We comply 
with a number of industry and government 
regulations, including:
• cGMP for food and supplements
• FAMI-QS and Safe Feed Safe Food  
for animals
• USP requirements for Choline
• USDA for milk and dairy products
• CFR 110, 117 food and dietary  
supplements
• NSF InternationalIn 2016, the FDA issued the new Food 
Safety Modernization Act (FSMA) guide -
lines for food safety. To meet these new 
guidelines over the last two years, we 
have invested in additional personnel, 
procedures, systems, and facilities.
Balchem sites are audited internally, 
by government agencies, by customers, 
and by third parties for compliance with 
the appropriate regulations and for 
good manufacturing practices. Balchem 
retains Safe Quality Food (SQF) annually 
to independently audit all sites on the regulations that govern our products. Any 
deficiencies or improvement opportuni -
ties are tracked to completion.
product recalls issued2016  
02017  
02018  
014
PEOPLE
Quality starts with our suppliers. We recognize we 
need to partner with the right suppliers to ensure 
product availability and integrity.
We have an active raw material quality 
sourcing approval program. The program 
includes an evaluation of the suppli -
er’s quality program and material to be 
supplied, verification of supplier compli -
ance with the Hazard Analysis and Critical 
Control Points (HACCP) program and a 
systematic preventative approach to food 
safety risks. In the food safety evaluation 
process, we consider how the product 
is made, how it is distributed and the 
intended use.INNOVATING  
OUR BUSINESS
We are currently building a world-
class R&D and Quality Control  
facility located at the Ogden, Utah 
HNH Production Campus. Our state-
of-the-art micro laboratory and large, 
modern product development pilot 
plant are already in place.Balchem maintains an ongoing supplier 
scorecard, including quality tracking, 
corrective action, and completion and 
follow-up site audits as required. We take 
customer feedback seriously and track 
customer complaints, complaint investiga -
tions, and corrective actions and customer 
communication of complaint resolution.
15
PEOPLE
HUMAN CAPITAL
Our employees are our most valued asset 
and fundamental to our success. Balchem 
is committed to providing a safe and col -
laborative work environment that encour -
ages the growth and development of  
all employees.  
We strive to develop employee skills  
and knowledge. The employee experi -
ence begins with an online onboarding 
tool and employee handbook that provide 
extensive information on company policies. 
Training is facilitated through our online 
system designed with employee self-ser -
vice training modules that document the  
understanding and completion of as -
signed or required training. This system is 
used to train for job-specific knowledge, 
regulatory requirements, and company 
policies, including Balchem’s code of  
conduct, anti-harassment, and discrimi -
nation, foreign corrupt practices, antitrust, 
and various other compliance areas.
Our sponsored Employee Continuing 
Learning program offers a broad base of 
assistance for employees, including learn-  
ing and development courses. 
Employees have access to healthy lifestyle 
discounts through our Wellness Center, as 
well as debt, legal, and financial counsel -
ing. Peak performance training and multi -
ple online services and courses enable our 
employees to choose their own learning 
paths and work to achieve their future 
goals for education, finances, and overall 
well-being.Balchem is committed to providing a safe and 
collaborative work environment that encourages  
the growth and development of all employees.
We also work to extend education and 
outreach opportunities to the community 
at large. In November 2018, we invited lo -
cal students into our Marano Ticino facil -
ity to learn about our company’s mission 
and operations. The students were able to 
gain a feel for roles within the company 
as they prepared for their career paths 
and decided where they see themselves 
in the future. After a quick tour and pre -
sentation, students met fellow alumni  who are now employees to exchange  
experiences and learn more about the 
site’s activities and future job opportuni -
ties. The experience gave these students 
a concrete example of how their school -
ing can lead to a successful career.
We provide financial support for em -
ployees to pursue degree programs, and 
on an annual basis, award scholarships 
to support the education of employees’ 
BALCHEM SONS  
AND DAUGHTERS  
SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM
Since the program’s inception in 
2005, Balchem has proudly award-  
ed $98,000 in scholarships to chil -
dren of employees, helping them  
to achieve their educational goals. 
We are excited to announce that in 
2019 we will double the number of 
annual scholarships offers, awarding 
10 scholarships totaling $20,000. EMPLOYEE SUCCESS
Employee success starts with  
the expectation that all Balchem  
employees practice our core values:  
 Always doing the  
 right thing
 Collaborating and  
 growing together
 Staying focused on  
 the customer
 Thinking big and  
 acting small
 Playing to win
16
PEOPLE
Employee  
turnover2018  
23% HOURLY   
10% SALARY
2017 
16% HOURLY   
8% SALARYEmployee  
diversity 
(gender)2018  
76% MALE  
24% FEMALE  
2017 
77% MALE  
23% FEMALE  children. Our annual performance review 
process fosters continuous growth and 
development by providing an opportunity 
to establish goals and deliver feedback 
relative to each employee’s performance. 
Balchem’s review process connects with 
a formal succession planning process 
designed to develop the next generation 
of leaders.
We are dedicated to providing full-time 
employees with a competitive compen -
sation package that includes medical, dental, vision, and prescription benefits 
in addition to a 401K matching program. 
Balchem also provides financial support 
for health and wellness programs such 
as sponsored weight-loss programs and 
subsidized gym memberships.
Diversity and inclusion is an important 
element of Balchem’s Human Resources 
strategy. In 2018, 54% of salaried new 
hires were females. Our recruiting efforts 
proactively consider diversity as part of 
any search.BALCHEM WOMEN’S  
IMPACT NETWORK  
(BWIN)
Established:  2018
Vision:  To inspire women of Balchem 
to capture their full potential.
Mission:  To build a platform that  
informs, develops, and empowers all 
of us to thrive both professionally  
and personally. 
Current Membership:  110
EMPLOYEE HEADCOUNT  
(AS OF 12/31/18)
011001150
2016 2017 20181,1451,184
1,141120017
TOTAL RECORDABLE INJURY RATE
201600.51.01.52.5
2017 20182.01.321.062.33ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH,  
SAFETY, AND SECURITY
Protecting the environment and the 
health and safety of our employees, 
contractors, visitors, and neighbors is our 
top priority. Our goal is to achieve zero 
injuries and fatalities, and avoid work -
er exposure to harmful conditions. We 
continually upgrade our facilities to 
reduce risks and establish procedures 
with appropriate personnel protection for 
the safety of our employees. We expect 
all employees, visitors, and contractors 
to take active personal ownership for their 
safety and the safety of others. Our safety 
program is structured around five pillars: 
process safety, personal safety, industrial 
hygiene, transportation safety, and envi -
ronmental safety.
We believe engaged employees will 
make the difference in meeting our goals. 
Our numerous avenues for employee or PEOPLE
contractor participation and communi -
cation include an open door policy, site 
suggestion boxes, safety huddles prior to 
work, an anonymous corporate concern 
hotline, and annual employee site safety 
surveys. Balchem conducts Job Safety 
Assessments (JSAs) to review the work We expect all employees, visitors, and contractors to 
take active personal ownership for their safety and 
the safety of others.
environment for potential risks and to 
identify the necessary safety requirements. 
Our Stop Taking Avoidable Risks (STAR) 
program encourages employees to make 
observations and provide input on steps 
to improve our operations and create safe 
working conditions.
RESPONSIBLY  
WORKING WITH  
ETHYLENE OXIDE
As part of our health and safety  
program, those employees who work 
with  Ethylene Oxide (EO) wear mon -
itors to track exposure levels and 
undergo testing annually to validate 
potential cumulative exposure levels. 
Balchem is a member of the EO Safety 
Task Group, a key industry working 
group that shares best practices 
around EO management.STOP TAKING  
AVOIDABLE RISKS – STAR
In 2017, we adopted STAR, a behavior-
based program to help employees 
identify safe and risky behaviors in  
our work practices. We rolled out  
the system to capture observations 
and ideas for improvement, and  
in 2018 the program was fully put  
into practice.SAFETY FOR ALL
All Balchem sites have emergency 
management plans. We work with 
local emergency responders to build 
understanding and stage mock drills 
to identify opportunities for continu -
ous improvement. Rate defined by recordable injuries per 200,000 hours worked.18
plant personnel and touring the produc -
tion facilities and lab. Many visitors were 
residents in the local town and communi -
ty, along with former employees and their 
families. Guests were introduced to the 
rich 50-year history of the site and plans 
for continued growth and development. 
The initiative was part of a project promot -
ed by the Piedmont Regional Govern -
ment called “Fabbriche Aperte” (meaning 
“Open Factories”), aimed at introducing  
the territory’s industries that have de-  
monstrated excellence in operations  
and sustainability.ST. GABRIEL  
COMMUNITY  
ADVISORY PANEL
St. Gabriel Community Advisory  
Panel (CAP) members and St. Gabriel 
Site Managers meet monthly to  
discuss facility updates:
• General business
• Injury reports
• Environmental reports
• Traffic concerns 
• Open positions
The CAP members discuss standing 
questions before discussing other 
items in the community. Balchem, as 
a member of the panel, works closely 
with the community on subjects that 
are important to the community 
(employment opportunities, railroad 
crossing repairs, road work, etc.).VERONA  
BACKPACK PROGRAM
Every year our Verona, Missouri site 
contributes to the local school for 
their backpack program. This pro -
gram prepares backpack lunches 
for underprivileged children to take 
home over the weekend so they  
don’t go hungry without access to 
school breakfast and lunch.COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT
We are proud to employ community 
members from all over the world. Many of 
our manufacturing locations are in small 
towns, and we work hard to employ peo -
ple from these towns and give back to 
the surrounding community. We routinely 
participate in charity drives for local  
organizations like the Food Bank of Lin -
coln in Lincoln, Nebraska (pictured right). 
Additionally, we send volunteers to our 
communities’ schools to support public 
STEM (Science, Technology, Engineer -
ing, Mathematics) educational efforts. 
We participate in Community Advisory 
Panel groups and hold public meetings 
to communicate site activities, share de -
velopments at the facilities, and address 
community questions and concerns. The 
local fire department and emergency 
response teams meet with us to perform 
annual walkthroughs, scenario reviews, 
and mock events to ensure  
proper training and preparation.
One example is our Slate Hill facility in 
New York, which holds annual workshops 
with the fire department and emergency 
personnel to develop response scenarios 
and training. As a strong supporter of 
local emergency services, when Balchem 
purchased a property to expand the Slate 
Hill site in 2018, the local fire department 
used the site’s building for fire and res -
cue practice before it was removed.
In October 2018, the Marano Ticino site in 
Italy opened its doors to more than 200 
visitors. The day included meeting the PEOPLE
100%
18 OF 18
manufacturing sites with local  
community engagement efforts
19
 
 
 5
PLANET20
PLANET
MCPD CONVERSION  
PROGRAM
In 2018, Balchem responded to  
new European Commission leg -
islation on the permissible levels 
of 3-MCPD and glycidyl fatty acid 
esters. Glycidyl fatty acid esters are 
food contaminants found in refined 
vegetable oils and fats. These com -
pounds are hydrolyzed to glycidol 
in the gastrointestinal tract. Within 
four months, we reformulated our 
inclusions, powders, and encapsulat -
ed products intended for sale in the 
European Union with compliant oils.  all palm oil  
sourced certified 
through RSPO100%
=10%hazardous material suppliers  
audited in the past three years2016-2018  
70%MATERIAL SOURCING
We recognize that we must manage the 
impacts of our supply chain to reduce 
potential harm to the environment and 
society. In addition to globally sourcing 
agricultural products, petrochemical feed -
stocks, and minerals, we work with and 
encourage our suppliers to align on envi-  
ronmentally friendly best practices around 
land selection and use, production practic -
es, and labor resource management. As a 
certified Roundtable on Sustainable Palm 
Oil (RSPO) member, we strive to use and 
support sustainable resources in our prod -
ucts and conduct annual audits to ensure 
compliance. All Balchem products now 
use certified palm oil. We also continue 
to source raw materials from renewable 
sources, increasing from 31% to 43% by 
volume in the last year alone.The Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit 
(SMETA) provides a four-pillar auditing 
methodology around best practices in 
environmental and business ethics. We 
utilize those pillars – labor standards, 
health and safety, business ethics, and 
the environment – as a basis for our own 
standards. All of our facilities are audited 
for SMETA compliance. Additionally, our 
Marano Ticino facility is part of the Eco -
Vadis supplier transparency initiative  
and has achieved EcoVadis Gold level. 
We expanded our Supplier Code of  
Conduct in 2018 and require all suppli -
ers to acknowledge their commitment 
by signing the document. Our supplier 
audits include verification of elements 
of this code. New suppliers go through a detailed quality and material approval 
process. The integrity of Balchem prod -
ucts starts with supplier quality, and our 
quality system is an integral element of 
supplier selection. 
As part of our commitment to responsible 
sourcing and exercising due diligence, 
Balchem works closely with chemical 
suppliers to audit their facilities. Of our  
key chemical suppliers, 70% of them 
have been audited in the last three years.We are committed to responsible sourcing  
and to encouraging our suppliers to employ 
sustainable practices.
PERCENTAGE OF RENEWABLE 
RAW MATERIAL SOURCING (BY 
VOLUME)
0%10%20%30%40%50%
201843%
201731%21
ENERGY MANAGEMENT
Our approach to energy management is 
two-fold: operate as efficiently as possible 
and invest in ways to reduce our energy 
intensity. This includes larger projects like 
our cogeneration unit in Marano Ticino,  
as well as investing in smaller projects 
with local energy companies and install -
ing LED lighting and motion sensors for 
lights. We also actively monitor energy 
use in our facilities – both absolute and  
by production intensity – to identify effi -
ciency opportunities. 
The recent energy efficiency project at  
our Marano Ticino facility highlights our 
commitment to reduce our environmen -
tal impact. In 2016, we installed a natural 
gas cogeneration unit to replace the 
plant’s old oil heating systems. The new 
1200kW unit improves the site’s emissions 
by converting energy sources from fuel 
oil to cleaner natural gas. Under normal 
operation, the Marano Ticino facility is 
electrically self-sufficient. Though still 
connected to the grid, the net exchange  
is practically zero.PLANET
SLEEPY EYE  
BOILER
In 2017, our Sleepy Eye facility iden -
tified its older boiler as an energy 
improvement opportunity. The project 
was completed in 2018 and the new  
boiler increases gas efficiency from 
75% to 86%.2018  
73,726
MT
Scope 1 and scope 2  
greenhouse gas emissions 
(CO2e metric tons)2018  
0.61 
GIGAJOULES
Energy intensity  
(GJ of energy per ton of  
products produced)We are continuously looking for ways to  
improve our energy efficiency and reduce  
our environmental impact. 
Marano Ticino cogeneration unit22
PLANET
SLEEPY EYE  
WATER REDUCTION
Over the last several years, we  
have implemented and improved  
automated Clean in Place (CIP) sys -
tems in our food plants, reducing  
water use for cleaning and the 
quantity of cleaning chemicals. Our 
conservation efforts results include:
• ~2,000 gallons/day of once-  
 through cooling water recycled  
 to the  scrubber tank
• ~800 gallons/week saved by  
 interlocking cooling water on high  
 pressure pumps/homogenizers  
 so water is only used while pump  
 is running
• SLATE HILL  
WATER REDUCTION
We installed an automatic boiler 
blowdown system and improved our 
cleaning systems to reduce water 
discharge from ~25,000 gallons per 
month to 12,000 gallons per month. 
These efforts save us $3,000 monthly.
2018  
1.8%
Water withdrawal 
from regions with 
high or extremely 
high baseline  
water stressWATER MANAGEMENT
Water consumption is primarily driven  
by manufacturing facilities and processes. 
An important part of our environmental 
responsibility is our effort to reduce water 
usage and manage the quality of water we 
return to local treatment plants. We actively 
monitor and manage each site’s water 
use and consumption per metric ton of 
production. Most of the water we withdraw 
is returned to local municipal facilities for 
treatment and reuse. All Balchem facilities 
maintain operating permits and comply 
with permit requirements.
Our water stewardship doesn’t stop at 
the factory door. Balchem’s products play 
an important role in efficient water use. 
Our Specialty Products segment offers a 
proprietary line of foliar products which 
improve crop health and reduce crop loss 
and water waste. The ANH product lines 
improve animal productivity to reduce 
the total number of animals required in 
the supply chain, which mitigates environ -
mental impact.water intensity (cubic meters  
of gross water withdrawal per  
ton of product produced)2018  
11.5 M3
water intensity (cubic meters  
of net water withdrawal – water  
withdrawn less water returned)  
per ton of product produced2018  
0.3 M323
WASTE MANAGEMENT
Balchem’s processes generate very limited 
waste. Our waste management program 
is focused on recovering EO and recycling 
packaging materials. EO is recovered from 
the returned containers used for trans -
porting EO to sterilizers throughout North 
America and around the world. We recover 
over 4,000 pounds annually, which is over 
99% of the EO residual. Additionally, we 
also collaborate with suppliers to collect 
and recycle packaging material, such as 
pallets and bags, from our operations. 
Balchem aims to limit the quantity of  
hazardous materials on our sites through 
careful production planning and coordina -
tion with our suppliers. Our corporate  PLANET
Enterprise Risk Management process  
ensures our safety processes and preven -
tion strategies reflect strong stewardship.  
We follow all regulatory requirements for 
tracking and managing hazardous mat-  
erials, and have a rigorous labeling system 
as part of our commitment to appro -
priate waste management. We use only 
licensed, reputable disposal companies  
for hazardous material removal, and  
audit these companies to check for  
appropriate certifications.ETHYLENE  
OXIDE RECYCLING
EO is supplied to the sterilizer  
in 400-pound drums, and only  
six pounds is left when returned.  
After we’ve reclaimed all of the  
residual material, we test its quality  
and then convert it into an industrial  
product. In 2018, we recovered almost 
4,000 pounds of EO, which was then 
safely reused.Balchem’s processes generate very limited waste.
ETHYLENE OXIDE RECOVERY
EO Recovered AnnuallyEO Containers
Ethylene Oxide EO Recovered AnnuallyOVER  
4,000
POUNDSOVER  
99%
EO RESIDUAL
*Balchem defines hazardous materials as Ethylene Oxide, Trimethyl Amine, Hydrochloric Acid, Anhydrous Ammonia, Propylene Oxide and Carbon Disulfide.hazardous waste reused or recycled*2018  
99%
hazardous material suppliers audited  
in past three years*2018  
70%24
 
 
 6
PROFIT25
PROFIT
“At our core, we are a health and nutrition company.”
OUR FOUNDATION
Balchem was founded in 1967 and, in its 
50-plus years of existence, has grown into 
a global company that provides technol -
ogy-based solutions for making the world 
a healthier place. Our businesses expand 
their competitive advantage by contin -
uously improving our technology and 
solutions for the customers and markets 
we serve. 
We grow organically by serving higher 
growth markets, expanding our global 
presence, deepening our market pene -
tration, and providing new and innovative 
offerings. We are increasingly investing  
in both internal and external R&D, as  
well as international capabilities and  
infrastructure. 
In our HNH segment, we have introduced 
a number of products for the sports and 
nutritional beverage market. Additionally, 
we continue to promote awareness of 
choline’s health benefits and our entire 
portfolio through research and market-  
facing initiatives, including the develop -
ment of partnerships to further leverage 
the use of our technologies.  
We actively pursue synergistic acquisitions 
where we can create new opportunities 
for growth or expand our competitive 
position. Our 2016 acquisition of Albion 
International, Inc. added premier branded 
chelated mineral products to our HNH 
segment’s portfolio of nutritional prod -
ucts. Our 2017 acquisition of Innovative 
Food Processors, Inc. (IFP) strengthened 
our North American encapsulation and 
agglomeration capabilities and our cus -
tomer portfolio. The 2017 acquisition of — Ted Harris, Chairman and CEO
Chol-Mix Kft, a Hungarian manufacturer of 
dry choline chloride, expanded our ANH  
segment’s geographic reach. In 2018,  
we acquired Bio-Screen Technologies 
S.R.L., which expanded the European  
manufacturing capability for our ANH  
segment and added to our portfolio of 
product offerings.  We are committed to operating in an effi -
cient and responsible manner. Our facilities 
generally have low energy intensity and 
water consumption, and generate minimal 
waste. We maintain appropriate regulatory 
approvals to operate and continually look 
for ways to reduce our energy consumption 
and impact on the environment.
revenue from products developed  in the past five years22.2%2017
27.6%201826
PROFIT
OUR GOVERNANCE
We have established leading practices 
in corporate governance. Our Board of 
Directors (Board) has affirmed that each of 
Balchem’s directors, other than our Chair -
man and CEO, Ted Harris, is independent, 
as defined by the National Association of 
Securities Dealers Automated Quotations 
(NASDAQ) Marketplace Rules. All directors 
have attended at least 75% of Board and 
Board Committee meetings during the 
course of the last ten years. We strongly 
encourage directors to also attend the 
annual stockholder meeting. By switching 
to a virtual annual meeting, we reduced 
materials and cost. These practices are 
designed not only to satisfy regulatory 
requirements, but to provide effective 
company oversight and management.
Our Board and management, who are ex -
perienced in the businesses and markets 
we serve, are compensated to enhance shareholder value. The compensation 
system outlined in our annual proxy state -
ment – http://proxymaterials.balchem.com/
Proxy-2019.pdf  – is designed to align man -
agement and director compensation with 
financial results and shareholder return.
To oversee the Sustainability Framework 
and prioritization process, we convened  
a cross-functional executive steering com-  
mittee, led by the Chairman and CEO, 
with representatives from business units, 
finance, investor relations, human re -
sources, R&D, internal audit, law, supply 
chain, and operations. The charter of 
the Board’s Corporate Governance and 
Nominating Committee (CG&N Committee) 
requires that group to consider corpo -
rate social responsibility matters. These 
considerations include reviewing Bal -
chem’s activities and practices regarding 
Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) matters significant to Balchem’s 
businesses. There is also a periodic review 
of the company’s ESG strategy, initiatives, 
and policies. The CG&N Committee receives 
updates from the management committee 
responsible for significant ESG activities.
In addition to our Sustainability Frame -
work, we have adopted a Code of Ethics 
for Senior Financial Officers that applies 
to Balchem’s Chairman and Chief Exe -
cuitve Officer, Chief Financial Officer and 
Chief Accounting Officer and Treasurer. 
We have also adopted a Code of Business 
Conduct and Ethics applicable to all of  
our employees and directors. The Code  
of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers  
and Code of Business Conduct and  
Ethics are available at http://www.bal -
chem.com/governance.
TSR measured from 2014 to 20185-YEAR TOTAL  
SHAREHOLDER RETURN (TSR)  
VS RUSSELL 2000 INDEX
21.1% (2,108 bps)REVENUE
$0M$550M$650M
$600M
2016 2017 2018$643.7M
$594.8M
$553.2M
ADJUSTED EBITDA*
$0M$100M$200M
$150M
2016 2017 2018$159.9M
$147.8M $149.3M
*Adjusted EBITDA is defined as earnings before 
interest, other expense/income, taxes, depreciation, 
amortization, stock-based compensation, acquisition-
related expenses, indemnification settlements, legal  
settlements, and the fair valuation of acquired inventory.27
PROFIT
RISK MANAGEMENT
While the Board also provides direct risk 
oversight, the Audit Committee is the 
primary administrator of risk oversight. 
Our Board, the Audit Committee, and 
management regularly discuss our major 
risk exposures, the potential financial 
impact and the management of these 
risks. The Audit Committee receives, 
or arranges for the Board to receive, 
periodic reports from management on 
areas of material risk, including finan -
cial, operational, legal, regulatory, and 
strategic risks. 
We employ an enterprise risk manage -
ment system which ensures alignment 
with our overall enterprise risk man -
agement efforts. While we do not have 
a Chief Risk Officer, the Audit Commit -
tee receives regular reports from the 
member of management tasked with 
understanding and monitoring key risk 
mitigation. The Chairman of the Audit 
Committee reports to the full Board with 
respect to Balchem’s risk management 
efforts, which enables the Board to 
monitor risks and oversee risk mitiga -
tion efforts. The Compensation Com -
mittee also evaluates risk related to  
our compensation program.
FREE CASH FLOW CONVERSION
0%50%200%
150%
100%127%
2016 2017 201892%151%ESG FRAMEWORK POLICIES
As part of our continued risk management and governance practices, Balchem 
has several policies in place related to our ESG framework:
• Anti-bribery Policy
• California Consumer Privacy  
 Act Policy
• Code of Business Conduct  
 and Ethics
• Corporate Statement on the  
 California Supply Chain Act• Corporate Statement on  
 Conflict Minerals
• Environmental Compliance Policy
• Risk Management Policy
• Safety and Health Policy
• Supplier Code of Conduct
GAAP net earnings2018  
$78.6MGAAP EARNINGS PER SHARE
$0$1$3
$2
$2$2.42
2016 2017 2018$2.79
$1.7528
 
 
We hope that Balchem’s 2018 Sustainability Report allows for a 
better understanding of how we integrate sustainability into our 
strategy, operations and business decisions. The focus, priorities 
and actions outlined in the report form the foundation of our 
commitment, and we are proud to share these achievements. 
We are dedicated to a sustainable future for our customers, We are dedicated to a sustainable future for our 
customers, suppliers, employees, communities, and 
shareholders where we live and work.
suppliers, employees, shareholders, and communities where we 
live and work. As we grow, we will continue to promote these 
principles broadly along the entire value chain, to develop new 
ideas and technologies that help us work smarter and to help 
build a world that is a better place to live.
CONCLUSION29
 
 
 7
APPENDIX30
APPENDIX
GRI INDEX 
This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI 
Standards: Core option. The issues addressed in this report 
were identified and prioritized by engaging a wide range of 
stakeholders internally and externally (see About Our Report ). 
Through this process, we identified ESG topics that are material 
to our company, some of which are covered by GRI Standards. Those topics are included in this GRI Index. Based on availability 
of data, not all GRI disclosures are reported fully. For more infor -
mation on GRI Standards, visit https://www.globalreporting.org /
standards . Where relevant, cross references to the United Nations 
SDGs are provided in the Index.
Disclosure Number Description Location and Notes
GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE
102-1 Name of the organizationOur Mission
102-2 Activities, brands, products,  
and servicesMessage from Our Chairman and CEO
102-3 Location of headquarters 2017 Annual Report
102-4 Location of operations 2017 Annual Report
102-5 Ownership and legal form 2017 Annual Report
102-6 Markets served2017 Annual Report
102-7 Scale of the organization 2017 Annual Report
102-8 Information on employees and  
other workersPeople – Human Capital
102-9 Supply chainPlanet – Material Sourcing
102-10 Significant changes to the  
organization and its supply chainAbout Our Report
102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Profit
102-12 External initiatives Included throughout the report31
APPENDIX
Disclosure Number Description Location and Notes
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE (CONTINUED)
102-13 Membership associations Management is officers or members of, or support, the  
following associations:
• American Chemical Council – Ethylene Oxide Safety  
Task Group
• American Chemical Council – Ethylene Oxide/Ethylene  
Glycols Management Committee
• American Chemical Society
• American Dairy Science Association
• American Feed Industry Association
• American Institute of CPAs (AICPA)
• American Registry of Professional Animal Scientists (ARPAS)
• American Society of Quality
• EU Association of Specialty Feed Ingredients and their  
Mixtures (FEFANA)
• Hudson Valley Council of Industry
• Institute for Feed Education and Research (IFEEDER)
• Poultry Science
• The Council for Responsible Nutrition (CRN)
• The Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA)
• US Poultry Federation
STRATEGY
102-14 Statement from senior decision maker Message from Our Chairman and CEO
102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Included throughout the report, by topics
ETHICS AND INTEGRITY
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and  
norms of behaviorBalchem Corporation Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns 
about ethicsBalchem Corporation Code of Business Conduct and Ethics32
APPENDIX
Disclosure Number Description Location and Notes
GOVERNANCE
102-18 Governance structure Profit – Our Governance
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Message from Our Chairman and CEO
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Balchem has established good working relationships at  
the Verona, MO and Marano Ticino, Italy sites. One additional 
site is in the process of being covered as of this report date. In 
2018, approximately 10% of our employees were represented 
by collective bargaining agreements.
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders About Our Report
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement About Our Report
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised About Our Report
REPORTING PRACTICE
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 
financial statements2017 Annual Report
102-46 Defining report content and  
topic BoundariesAbout Our Report
102-47 List of material topicsAbout Our Report
102-48 Restatements of information This is our first year releasing a sustainability report.
102-49 Changes in reporting This is our first year releasing a sustainability report.
102-50 Reporting periodAbout Our Report
102-51 Date of most recent report About Our Report33
APPENDIX
Disclosure Number Description Location and Notes
REPORTING PRACTICE (CONTINUED)
102-52 Reporting cycle About Our Report
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding 
the reportsustainability@balchem.com
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance  
with the GRI Appendix – GRI Index
102-55 GRI content index Appendix – GRI Index
102-56 External assurance There is no external assurance obtained over the People and 
Planet pillars. Profit financial data that is listed in the 10-K has 
been audited.
GRI 301: MATERIALS 2016
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and  
its BoundaryAbout Our Report
103-2 The management approach and  
its componentsPlanet – Material Sourcing
103-3 Evaluation of the management  
approachPlanet – Material Sourcing
TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES
301-1 Materials used by weight or volumePlanet – Material Sourcing
Total volume of materials (lbs):  
Renewable – 289.6M  
Non-renewable – 388.5M34
APPENDIX
GRI 303: WATER AND EFFLUENTS 2018
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and  
its BoundaryAbout Our Report
103-2 The management approach and  
its componentsPlanet – Water Management
103-3 Evaluation of the management  
approachPlanet – Water Management
MANAGEMENT APPROACH DISCLOSURES
303-1 Interactions with water as a  
shared resourceWe performed water scarcity research (refer to Planet – Water 
Management ) and determined that a low percentage of water 
withdrawn is from high water stress areas. Management re -
viewed this analysis and water stress percentage and deemed 
it to be significantly low. Disclosure Number Description Location and Notes
GRI 302: ENERGY 2016
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and  
its BoundaryAbout Our Report
103-2 The management approach and  
its componentsPlanet – Energy Management
103-3 Evaluation of the management  
approachPlanet – Energy Management
TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES
302-3 Energy intensity Planet – Energy Management35
Disclosure Number Description Location and Notes
MANAGEMENT APPROACH DISCLOSURES (CONTINUED)
303-2 Management of water discharge  
related impactsBalchem works with local municipalities as facilities discharge 
water into municipal sources, except for one location which is 
tightly controlled. We operate largely in areas not faced with 
high water stress. The results of the water stress analysis (refer 
to Planet – Water Management ) were shared with the steering 
committee, who oversees water management stewardship. 
TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES
303-3 Water withdrawal Planet – Water Management
Total water withdrawn M3: 
2018 – 4,101,479
Water intensity (cubic meters withdrawn per  
metric ton of products produced):  
2018 – 11.5  
2017 – 12.7  
2016 – 12.3APPENDIX
GRI 305: EMISSIONS 2016
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and  
its BoundaryAbout Our Report
103-2 The management approach and  
its componentsPlanet – Energy Management
103-3 Evaluation of the management  
approachPlanet – Energy Management
TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) greenhouse  
gas emissionsPlanet – Energy Management
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) greenhouse 
gas emissionsPlanet – Energy Management
503-4 Greenhouse gas emissions intensityTotal greenhouse gas emissions intensity  
(metric tons/revenue in millions):  
2018 – 115  
2017 – 120  
2016 – 13636
APPENDIX
Disclosure Number Description Location and Notes
GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 2016
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and  
its BoundaryAbout Our Report
103-2 The management approach and  
its componentsPlanet – Waste Management
103-3 Evaluation of the management  
approachPlanet – Waste Management
TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Planet – Waste Management
Total weight of hazardous waste (metric tons): 106.5
GRI 308: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 2016
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and  
its BoundaryAbout Our Report
103-2 The management approach and  
its componentsPeople – Food Safety
103-3 Evaluation of the management  
approachPeople – Food Safety
MANAGEMENT APPROACH DISCLOSURES
308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the 
supply chain and actions takenPeople – Food Safety
4 out of 14 hazardous material suppliers were audited in 2018;  
70% of total hazardous waste suppliers have been audited  
in the past three years. 37
APPENDIX
Disclosure Number Description Location and Notes
GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 2018
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and  
its BoundaryAbout Our Report
103-2 The management approach and  
its componentsPeople – Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security
103-3 Evaluation of the management  
approachPeople – Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security
MANAGEMENT APPROACH DISCLOSURES
403-1 Occupational health and safety  
management systemPeople – Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment 
and incident investigationPeople – Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security
Refer to JSAs and STAR program
403-3 Occupational health services People – Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security
Refer to JSAs and STAR program
403-4 Worker participation, consultation  
and communication on occupational 
health and safetyPeople – Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security
Refer to JSAs and STAR program
403-5 Worker training on occupational  
health and safetyPeople – Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security
Safety training is performed by employees on at least an  
annual basis and is also integrated into a daily practice with 
tool talks and pre-shift huddles.
403-6 Promotion of worker healthPeople – Human Capital
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupa -
tional health and safety impacts directly 
linked by business relationshipsPeople – Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security
TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES
403-9 Work-related injuries People – Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security38
APPENDIX
Disclosure Number Description Location and Notes
GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 2016
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and  
its BoundaryAbout Our Report
103-2 The management approach and  
its componentsPeople – Human Capital
103-3 Evaluation of the management  
approachPeople – Human Capital
TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies  
and employeesPeople – Human Capital
GRI 413: LOCAL COMMUNITIES 2016
GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and  
its BoundaryAbout Our Report
103-2 The management approach and  
its componentsPeople – Community Involvement
103-3 Evaluation of the management  
approachPeople – Community Involvement
TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES
413-1 Operations with local community  
engagement, impact assessments,  
and development programsPeople – Community Involvement39
APPENDIX
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS INDEX
PEOPLE
Environmental, Health, Safety, and Security
Human Capital
Community Involvement
Human Nutrition and Health
Animal Nutrition and Food Availability
PLANET
Energy Management
Water Management
Waste Management
Safety and Environmental Stewardship of Chemicals and Genetically Modified Organisms
Materials Sourcing Practices
Food Safety and Health Concerns
