Toward a Sustainable Future
Ball Corporation 2007 Sustainability Report
Index
 1 Company Profile
 2 Chairman’s Letter
 4 Ball’s Approach 
to Sustainability
 7 Sustainable Packaging
 16 Environmental 
Performance
 24 Social Performance
 3 0 Economic Performance
36  Stakeholder Engagement
40 GRI Content IndexAbout This Report
Ball Corporation’s first sustainability report is focused on calendar years 
2006 and 2007 and provides available baseline information for 2005.
We embrace the triple bottom line approach to sustainability reporting 
which calls for companies to measure and report on their economic, envi-ronmental and social performance. We believe the proactive management and transparent reporting of our environmental and social performance 
will enhance our long-term economic growth.
Our report is based on the Reporting Framework of the Global 
Reporting  Initiative (GRI), a widely accepted standard for sustainability 
reporting. Information based on the GRI’s standard disclosures as well as 
additional  information about Ball Corporation is available online at  
www.ball.com.
We collected the available data and are reporting information from 
our majority-owned operations. We plan to issue our next sustainability report in 2010.
We welcome your inquiries and comments on our sustainability 
 reporting. Please direct those to:
Americas Europe
Gerri Walsh Gert-Walter Minet 
Director Vice President
Packaging Industry Affairs Regulatory Affairs
gwalsh@ball.com gert-walter_minet@ball-europe.com
China Ball Aerospace
Major Deng  Laura Davis 
Director Director
Environment & Recycling  Environmental, Health and Safety  
mdeng@ball.com & System Safety Engineering 
 ldavis@ball.comMetal beverage containers, 48 billionMetal food and household containers, 8 billionPlastic containers, 5.5 billionBall at a Glance
Businesses: Packaging, Aerospace
Employees: 15,500
Net Sales: $7.4 billion
Countries: 10
Facilities: 90
Headquarters: Broomfield, Colorado, USA
Founded: 1880
Ticker Symbol: BLL
Packaging Containers Produced  
(approximate)Net Sales by Reporting Segment
Metal beverage packaging, Americas and Asia (41%)
Metal beverage packaging, Europe (22%)
Metal food & household products packaging, Americas (16%)
Plastic packaging, Americas (10%)Aerospace & technologies (11%)
Ball Aerospace Mission Areas
 Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance
 Space Science & Exploration
 Weather & Environment
 Integrated Battlespace
 Space Superiority
 Technology ComponentsUSA (72%)
Canada (3%)
Argentina (3%)
Germany (7%)UK (4%)
Netherlands (1%)Total Employees
France (3%)
Poland (1%)
Serbia (1%)
China (4%)Other (1%)
1 Company Profile2007 Company Profile
www.ball.comChairman’s Letter
2Ball Corporation turned 128 years old in 2008. In our early years we 
were known for manufacturing glass jars. Today we manufacture metal 
and plastic packaging for well-known beverages, foods and household 
products. We also provide aerospace and technology solutions for defense and civilian agencies.
We have adapted to many changes – economic, social and 
environmental – to survive and thrive for 128 years. We have grown from a family business to one that employs more than 15,500 people in 10 countries around the world in the Americas, Europe and Asia. In 
2007, we paid more than $99 million to government tax authorities and 
donated more than $2  million to support our communities and make 
them better places in which to live and work. Since 2000, we have created approximately $3.2 billion in shareholder value for the people who own our stock.
Ball’s economic success allows us to fulfill our obligations as a respon-
sible employer, supplier, customer and neighbor. Our prosperity is clearly 
linked to the prosperity and success of others. We are committed to doing 
our part in protecting the environment for future generations and to  being a responsible citizen of our shared global community. 
Without calling it “sustainability,” we have embraced these concepts 
for a long time. We have been reducing the amount of material in our 
products; reducing energy consumption; emissions and waste; increasing our use of recycled materials; and supporting recycling programs. We have developed innovative products that offer more environmentally 
friendly alternatives to existing packages. And we have designed and built “For Ball, sustainability is a systematic way of doing business 
that creates economic, social and environmental value for our 
shareholders, society and the planet. Whether it is working to 
reduce our environmental footprint, helping our customers to become more sustainable or investing further in our employees 
or our communities, we are committed to making Ball a more 
sustainable enterprise.”
R. David Hoover 
Chairman, president and chief executive officer
Chairman’s Letter3numerous satellites and instruments used to study climate change and 
other impacts  affecting our planet.
What is new for us is our commitment to broaden and deepen our 
efforts by embedding a more formalized sustainability approach into 
Ball’s strategy and operations, thus adding to our financial success. 
This first sustainability report is part of that commitment.
We do not have solutions or even measurable goals for every 
 challenge. But preparing this report has helped us  to chart a 
clear course:
  It became the catalyst for compiling social and environmental 
information from our global operations and for establishing a  baseline, allowing us to measure global performance and progress.
  That information in turn enabled us to identify our sustainability 
areas of focus and to begin to set goals to address them. The  adjacent list is a summary of these goals; relevant goals are listed 
at the beginning of each section of this report.
  The process of reviewing the report with some of our stake  holders 
gave us more insight into the challenges they face and how we 
might work more closely to address common concerns. 
The issues on which we have chosen to focus raise challenges 
relating to our own operations, as well as to the activities of everyone 
in the packaging supply chain – from the suppliers of source material 
to consumers. The active cooperation of everyone in the packaging supply chain is essential if we are to make significant progress on sustainable packaging. This report is a vehicle for us to bring more focus and energy to those and other discussions about how to improve the sustainability of packaging, and of our products and processes in particular, so that we can help create a more sustainable 
planet for us and for future generations. 
Since the five Ball brothers founded this company in 1880, 
successive generations of Ball employees have made our core values 
come alive by trying to do the right thing every day. This report commits us to continue on that journey.
R. David Hoover
Chairman, president and chief executive officer
Chairman’s LetterOur Direction
 Use less virgin materials 
and more recycled 
materials 
 Support recycling 
programs 
 Understand environmental 
impact of our packages 
and quantify their carbon 
footprints 
 Strengthen environmental 
management systems 
 Increase energy efficiency 
 Reduce emissions and 
resource use 
 Improve safety 
performance 
 Increase diversity 
 Develop product and 
process innovations 
 Support small and minority 
businesses 
 Expand stakeholder 
relations 
 Long-term earnings per 
share growth of 10 to 15 
percent over time
 Generate returns in excess 
of our cost of capital in all 
of our businesses
 Increase Economic 
Value AddedBall’s Approach to Sustainability
Ball’s Approach to Sustainability 4Our focus on sustainability will assist us to further reduce our 
environmental footprint; decrease costs; increase our appeal to customers,  investors, existing and potential employees; and help us be 
a better neighbor. Those are the reasons, along with our strong desire 
to be a responsible corporate citizen, that we are committing to a 
formal sustainability program in our operations around the world.
We are focused on five key areas and plan to integrate each into 
our business strategy:
 Advance Sustainable Packaging – A major opportunity to make 
a positive difference is to advance sustainable packaging through the 
innovations in the products we make, the processes we use in our operations and our advocacy for sustainability principles within the supply chain that includes our products. This is good for Ball, good for 
our stakeholders and good for the planet. 
 Reduce Our Environmental Footprint – We will continue to improve 
the environmental performance of our manufacturing facilities and 
decrease our energy use and the greenhouse gas emissions from our operations. This will benefit the environment and reduce our costs.
 Care for Our Employees and Communities – We will enhance the 
health, safety and well-being of our employees and continue to have a 
favorable impact in the communities we call home. This will make us a stronger company and an even more appealing employer.
 Create Prosperity for Us and Others – We seek to prosper in ways 
that also create prosperity for others, particularly through innovations in 
our products and processes. Our continued financial success will enable us to create benefits for those with whom we interact.
 Strengthen Stakeholder Relationships – We will strengthen 
our relationships with all those who have a stake in our activities and 
who can affect our business. This will make our company and our products more sustainable.Ball has long recognized the importance of stakeholders and a major part 
of our sustainability initiative continues to be to work with those who have a significant stake in our activities. We believe sustainability can be a differentiator for us and we are working to become the sustainable  supplier of choice.
RecyclersHundr eds of 
Material Suppliers
Other 
Materials
Resour ce 
Extraction
LandfillComposting
IncinerationHundr eds of 
Packaging Companies
Thousands of 
Brand Owners
Distribution/
Warehousing
Hundr eds of 
Thousands 
of Retailers
Billions of Consumers
adapted from S ustainable P ackaging Coalition's Design G uidelines
5 Ball’s Approach to SustainabilityWe believe that sustainability 
can be a differentiator for us and 
we are working to become the sustainable supplier of choice. Part 
of our challenge, however, is that 
we can only make significant progress on some of these issues by collaborat  ing with others – our 
suppliers, our  customers, 
consumers, other key players in 
our industries, governments and 
the communities in which we 
operate. Ball has long recognized the importance of stakeholders and part of our sustainability initiative continues to be to work with those who have a significant stake in our activities, especially in the 
packaging supply chain.
For example, our customers and 
the retailers to whom they provide 
products are focused on reducing, reusing and recycling packaging and reducing greenhouse gas 
Packaging Material Flows emissions. We will continue to 
help them achieve their sustainabil-ity goals as we achieve our own goals, through greater efficiency in 
our operations, more innovative 
and sustainable products and more  collaboration for mutual benefit.
Recycling is key to our efforts. 
Aluminum and steel are not renew-
able resources, but aluminum and steel cans are – they are 
100 percent endlessly recyclable. 
PET (
1) and HDPE (2) bottles 
are also 100 percent recyclable and 
polypropylene (5) bottles are 
increasingly being collected in 
many areas of the United States. We are not satisfied with the 
recycling rates of con tainers 
worldwide, which is why we sup-
port efforts to increase collection and why we champion recycling within our industries. 
Ball’s various packaging operations are 
part of a vast packaging supply chain that makes, uses and disposes of packaging.
(diagram adapted from Sustainable   
Packaging Coalition’s Design Guidelines)2007 Milestones
  Our executive management committed the company to a formal 
sustainability initiative and created a sustainability task force to 
lead our efforts.
  Our board of directors, through its nominating/corporate 
governance committee, committed to review and assess our 
sustainability activities and performance, requesting periodic 
reports by management on progress and challenges.
  We identified key sustainability areas of focus for our company.
  We introduced sustainability as a business initiative to 
our employees.
  We endorsed the reporting framework issued by the Global 
Reporting Initiative.
  We gathered the available quantitative and qualitative information 
from our operations on relevant economic, environmental 
and social indicators.
  Our operations committed to sustainability goals in their strategic 
plans for 2008-2010.  
  We endorsed the guidelines set forth by the Sustainable 
Packaging Coalition, an industry working group inspired by  
cradle-to-cradle principles (www.sustainablepackaging.org).
  We worked with our customers, employees, government officials 
and others to review drafts of this report and refine its focus.
  We began reporting greenhouse gas emissions to the Carbon 
Disclosure Project, an independent organization that works with 
shareholders and corporations on disclosure of greenhouse gas 
emissions (www.cdproject.net).
6 Ball’s Approach to SustainabilityIn addition to the benefits 
related to waste reduction,  recycling 
reduces greenhouse gas emissions. 
The U.S. Environmental Protec-
tion Agency (EPA) concluded 
that recycling a ton of a common residential mixture of recyclables reduces greenhouse gas emissions by approximately 2.8 tons.
 The use of recycled material 
saves up to 95 percent of the 
energy required to make aluminum 
cans from virgin materials and up to 74  percent of the energy 
required to make steel cans from virgin materials. Recycling a ton of PET bottles saves the equivalent of about 400 gallons of gasoline
 
(source: EPA).
Our focus areas reflect environ-
mental, social and economic concerns and we plan to be more 
systematic about working with our 
stakeholders – especially our customers, employees and suppliers – to make advances in each one.
“Sustainability is absolutely critical to Ball’s longevity. 
Economic vitality, recycling, safety, reducing our 
environmental footprint – key elements that make up 
the triple bottom line – have been, and will continue to be, daily life for us.”
John A. Hayes 
Executive vice president and chief operating officer
Sustainable Packaging
Sustainable Packaging 7Goals
More fully integrate sustainable packaging principles into our 
operations by:
  Using less materials and more recycled source materials in 
our packages.
•	Complete 	conversion 	to	a	new,	lighter-weight 	beverage 	can	 
lid in North America in 2009 and expand capacity of same  
lid in Europe.
•	Use	25	percent	recycled	HDPE	in	our	plastic	pails	or	achieve	
10 percent source reduction by substituting lower density 
polypropylene.
  Improve post-consumer collection and recycling of our 
packaging by working with our supply chain, communities and 
waste management systems.
  Work with the metals industries to complete life cycle analyses 
of metal cans to understand the impacts in each stage of the life 
cycle, identifying opportunities to improve those impacts and 
determine the carbon footprint of cans.
Integrating Sustainable Packaging Principles 
Ball is primarily a packaging company, and thus one of the most 
important opportunities we have from a sustainability perspective is to help to advance sustainable packaging. In doing so, we seek to become the sustainable packaging supplier of choice. Ball’s Role in Advancing Sustainable Packaging 
A major opportunity to make a positive difference is to advance sustainable 
packaging through the innovations in the products we make, the processes we use in our operations and our advocacy for sustainability principles within the supply chain that includes our products. This is good for Ball, good for our stakeholders and good for the planet. 8 Sustainable PackagingPackaging serves society along 
the entire supply chain; it secures 
product quality, provides for efficient and safe delivery, enables storage and sufficient shelf life, offers important product information and protects products from damage, tampering and deterioration. Packaging provides consumers what they want, when they want it, in a format that fits 
their lifestyles.
Hundreds of billions of cans and 
plastic bottles are manufactured 
by companies worldwide each year to meet those needs. Like other consumer packaging, these containers pose a challenge for society in terms of natural resource use, energy consumption and waste disposal. This challenge drives our commitment to produce more sustainable packaging. 
We are a member of the Sustain-
able Packaging Coalition (SPC www.sustainablepackaging.org), an international industry working group inspired by cradle-to-cradle principles (all material outputs can either be reused, recycled or composted) and dedicated to trans-forming packaging into a system 
that creates economic prosper-
ity through a sustainable flow of  materials. The SPC has a long-
term vision – which we share – that a sustainable packaging system can provide benefits throughout the life cycle of the package, and it has developed eight principles that support that vision (see sidebar).
In relevant sections of this 
report, we will note how we are addressing these principles. 
Using Less Material in 
Our Packages
We work to produce packaging 
that minimizes environmental impacts while meeting the re-quirements of our customers and consumers. Our primary effort has been to provide increasingly lighter weight, recyclable packag-ing that contains recycled material when  feasible. 
Because metal and resin costs are 
significant factors in the produc-
tion of cans and bottles, light-
weighting has been a cornerstone of our approach to sustainable packaging, providing both econo-mic and environmental benefits by making the lightest container possible while still providing the functional characteristics necessary (SPC Principles B & G).
The benefits of lighter packaging 
cascade throughout the entire sup-ply chain. Reducing the weight of shipments, for example, decreases fuel use, greenhouse gas emissions and costs. Light-weighting has helped ensure that our products lead the market in value in addi-tion to quality and performance. Sustainable 
Packaging Coalition Principles
Our packages meet many 
aspects of the Sustainable 
Packaging Coalition’s 
principles and we 
are committed to 
focusing on more 
fully integrating 
the relevant and 
achievable principles into our 
strategy and operations. 
Sustainable Packaging: 
A. Is beneficial, safe and 
healthy for individuals and 
communities throughout its 
life cycle; (see page 12) 
B. Meets market criteria for performance and cost;  
(see page 8)
C. Is sourced, manufactured, transported, and recycled 
using renewable energy;  
(see page 20)
D. Maximizes the use of 
renewable or recycled source 
materials; (see page 10)
E. Is manufactured using clean production technologies and 
best practices; (see page 20)
F . Is made from materials 
healthy in all probable end-of-
life scenarios; (see page 20)
G. Is physically designed to optimize materials and 
energy; (see pages 8 and 18)
H. Is effectively recovered and utilized in biological and/or 
industrial cradle-to-cradle cycles. (see page 11)9 Sustainable PackagingThe diameter of the can end 
on our beverage can has been 
reduced five times in 25 years. Each 
 reduc  tion saved substantial amounts 
of aluminum when multiplied by 
the billions of recyclable beverage can ends made each year. We are nearing the end of a multi-year project to consolidate our U.S. beverage end-making capabilities and reduce aluminum use. When 
completed in 2009, this project will 
save approximately 9,900 tons of aluminum annually and, as a result, reduce greenhouse gas emissions by approximately 85,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide. That is the equiv-alent of taking more than 15,000 automobiles off the road for one year. We are also implementing this project in Europe.Since we entered our current 
plastic bottle business in 1995, we have focused on reducing the amount of plastic used in each container. We are also currently evaluating how we can improve the sustainability of HDPE plastic pails by either using 25 percent recycled HDPE or substituting polypropylene, a lower density plastic that requires less material 
for the same size container and 
emits less greenhouse gases per ton of material (source: American Chemistry Council). 
We employ other strategies to 
minimize raw material use, such as recycling all scrap within our facilities and making process improvements to reduce spoilage. 
Ball’s sustainability activities were awarded second 
place in the 2007 “Establishing Corporate Social Responsibility in Southeast Europe” competition among 
400 companies in Serbia by a jury headed by the Serbian 
deputy prime minister. The valuation criteria were related to the environmental and safety performance of our can manufacturing plant, as well as to our “recan” recycling 
activities in communities. 
Since 1969, the weight of the 
12-ounce can and end package has been reduced by approximately 
40 percent.196948.4
198435.4
199431.6
200629.4Aluminum Can  
Source Reduction
(pounds of aluminum per 1,000 cans)
Light-weighting 
Successes
10 Sustainable PackagingRecycled Source Material 
in Our Packages
The recycling infrastructure for 
aluminum and steel in North America and Europe is well established and highly efficient. Both metals are endlessly recyclable without loss of quality and are recycled in a material-to-material process (aluminum-to-aluminum and steel-to-steel) achieving significant economic and environmental savings. 
In North America, aluminum 
cans are collected at a rate of 52 percent and contain an average of 41 percent postconsumer recycled content, while steel cans are col-lected at a rate of 63 percent and contain an average of 22 percent postconsumer recycled content according to industry analysis for 2006 (SPC Principle D). There are two methods for recycling steel. Recycled steel is sourced via the most cost effective route, which does not necessarily mean into the same product. Recycled cans can become part of a different steel product such as a structural beam (sources: the Aluminum Association and the Steel Recycling Institute).
In Europe, 58 percent of 
aluminum cans and 66 percent of 
steel cans were recycled in 2006. 
Aluminum cans are manufactured from aluminum produced with 50 percent recycled material. Steel cans are made from steel produced with 56 percent recycled material (sources: European Aluminum Association and the Association of European Producers of Steel for Packaging). 
In China, the recycling rate of 
aluminum cans is estimated to be 90 percent (source: China Packaging Federation). Collecting recyclable materials is a source of income for many people in China and in other emerging markets. The cans in China are re-melted into various alloys that Ball and others are working to bring to the level of recognized international standards.
In 2006, the United States 
 recycling rate for PET bottles was 
24 percent. The strong markets for  recycled PET are diverse and 
include carpeting, strapping for pallets of containers and food and nonfood bottles. Recycled food-grade PET is generally sold in pellet form and mixed with virgin resin just prior to manu-facturing bottles. Using recycled 
food-grade PET in new bottles in 
the United States requires rigorous processing to remove all impuri-ties and must conform to a U.S. Food and Drug Administration  approved process for food contact. 
Depending on market factors, it can be more  costly to use recycled 
food-grade PET in new bottles than to use virgin PET. To support 
Our aluminum cans are 40 percent 
lighter than in 1969; our steel bever-age cans are 50 percent lighter than 
in 1970.
Our half-liter PET water bottle is 
35 percent lighter than in 1995.
Our polypropylene bottles are 25 per-
cent lighter on average than in 1992.
Our one-liter HDPE bottles are  
30 percent lighter than in 2004.
Our steel food cans are 35 percent 
lighter on average than in 1992.
Sustainable Packaging 11the  sustainability requirements of 
our customers, we added equip-
ment in  our operations and are 
now  using an average of 5 percent 
recycled PET. 
The 2006 recycling rate for 
polypropylene bottles in the United States was 9 percent (source: American Plastics Council). No food-grade recycled polypropylene is currently available in the United 
States. Due to limited existing mar-
kets for recycled polypropylene, it is used in nonfood applications, such as plastic pails. If food-grade recycled polypropylene becomes available, we will evaluate integrat-ing it into our operations.Working with Local 
Communities on Increased Collection and Recycling
Metal beverage and food cans, steel 
aerosol containers and PET and HDPE bottles are fully recyclable and fit in all collection schemes (SPC Principle H). Curbside recy-cling is the most convenient and comprehensive of these schemes. Polypropylene bottles are not as widely recycled, but are increas-
ingly included with HDPE bottles 
for recycling. Inclusion of poly-propylene bottles below 5 percent in HDPE materials does not have an adverse effect on the recycling of HDPE (source:  Association of 
Post-Consumer Plastic Recyclers).
We partner with Coors Brewing 
Company to fund community recycling drop-off centers like this one in Grand 
County, Colorado, which collects 
approximately 2.5 tons per month.
Ball’s “recan” program in Asia was 
officially launched at the Shanghai Exhibition of Energy Conservation and 
Environmental Protection in June 2007. The 
program educates consumers about the environmental benefits of an efficient used beverage can recycling solution in China.
Ball’s Recycling 
 …Programs…
12 Sustainable PackagingRecycling programs depend on 
reliable markets for the recycled 
materials and sufficient revenues to offset costs for collection and processing. The price paid for recycled metals and plastics generates revenue that helps to offset the costs of curbside and other recycling programs (SPC Principle A). The additional benefits of recycling are the significant 
energy savings and reductions in 
greenhouse gas emissions compared to using virgin  materials. 
In many parts of the world, 
curbside recycling has been very successful. In Belgium, for ex-ample, the return rates of alumi-num and steel cans are higher than 90 percent, achieving a signifi-cantly higher rate of return than the  minimum target. 
Recognizing that more collec-
tion is needed to further reduce 
the environmental impacts of our packages, Ball is actively engaged in programs to improve collections (see sidebar on next page). 
 In 2003, when United States 
municipal recycling programs were generally stagnant, we joined with some of our aluminum  suppliers 
and competitors to start the 
Curbside Value Partnership (CVP) to improve the participa-tion levels and efficiency of local curbside recycling programs  
(www.recyclecurbside.org).The CVP has 40 community 
partners, as well as the entire state of Georgia. The CVP’s goal is to help communities create a self-sustaining, economically efficient curbside program. CVP communities have increased participation by approximately 20 percent with a 22 percent average increase in collected volumes. Other communities are using the 
free online tool kits available on 
the CVP Web site to help strengthen their curbside recy-cling programs. 
The Can Manufacturers 
Institute provides free educational materials about recycling for elementary and middle schools and will soon add a curriculum for high schools. All curriculums are accredited by the National Science Teachers Association (www.cancentral.com).
Our headquarters and North 
American manufacturing plants participate in the annual America Recycles Day Aluminum Can Challenge to demonstrate the importance of recycling in our communities. In 2007, 14 Ball plants collected almost 40,000 
pounds of aluminum cans and 
donated almost $30,000 to local charities or to community projects such as a skateboard park in  Monticello, Indiana.
…in Europe
…in the United States
…in ChinaSustainable Packaging 13Ball initiates and supports recycling 
initiatives such as our “recan” programs in Europe and China, the Recal Foun-
dation in Europe and the Curbside 
Value Partnership in the United States. We also support the National Recycling Coalition, Keep America Beautiful, 
NAPCOR, Steel Recycling Institute and 
the Colorado Association for Recycling.Case Study Serbia: 
Recycling to Combat Poverty
Ball operates a beverage can manufacturing plant in Serbia, a country 
where recycling systems, while developing, are inadequate, and where unemployment is above 30 percent. Some residents collect valuable 
recyclable materials as a way of making a living. 
In 2006, our “recan” fund and “recan” recycling organization – Ball’s 
recycling subsidiary in Europe – initiated a project in cooperation with 
two Serbian nongovernmental organizations to enhance collection by 
improving collectors’ work skills and opportunities. The project allocated 
equipment, education and training and focused on communicating facts on the recycling market and recyclable materials such 
as beverage cans. 
The	United	States	
embassy in Belgrade, 
through a program of the 
United	States	Agency	for 	
International Development, 
sponsored the project. They provided	50	cargo	tricycles 	
to help the collectors trans-port more cans and cover a 
larger area.
Contacts between collec-
tors and recycling companies have been 
established to assist collectors in selling the material. These contacts will improve 
the collectors’ opportunity to participate 
in the new public waste collection and recycling system when it starts in Serbia. The project also led to the creation of additional jobs for trainers, bicycle mechanics and project mentors.Equipped with reflective jackets 
and tricycles, Serbians collected 
used beverage cans for recycling.COLORADOASSOCIATION   
FORRECYCLING
alu
Ball has been recognized with the 
“Environmental Hero Award” for its joint efforts to collect and recycle beverage 
cans in innovative ways and to success-
fully reach out to businesses, schools and the community in Serbia. Shown here are Ball employees taking part in a 
project to keep the banks of the Danube 
River around Belgrade free from litter.Plastic Containers 
and Sustainability
  PET, HDPE and polypropylene 
bottles are lightweight, strong, 
resealable and recyclable. 
  Light-weighting plastic bottles 
saves resin and energy costs, 
reduces transportation energy, 
decreases emissions and  lowers 
shipping costs.
  Clean plant process scrap 
is directly recycled back into 
new bottles.
  PET and HDPE plastic bottles 
are recyclable in the vast major -
ity of curbside and drop-off systems	in	the	United	States. 	
Polypropylene bottles are 
 increasingly being collected.
  Ball’s	500-milliliter 	water	bottle	
has	been	reduced	from	23.5	
grams	in	1995,	when	we	began	
manufacturing PET bottles, to 
15.2	grams	today,	a	35	percent	
reduction. 
  Recycled PET is in high demand 
and has many diverse uses that 
include carpeting, automobile 
parts, food and nonfood bottles. 
14 Sustainable PackagingWhen Ball opened beverage can 
plants in Poland and Serbia, we 
established recycling programs to educate consumers and increase recycling rates. The Recal Founda-tion for environmental education was established in 1995 in Poland by Ball (then called Schmalbach-Lubeca), other European bever-age can producers and aluminum suppliers. Its mission is to inform 
and educate consumers – especially 
young people – on the advantages of recycling, increase environmen-tal awareness and to instill recy-cling as a daily habit. The Recal Foundation has, for example, run the annual “Clean Beaches” cam-paign since 2000. Almost 29,000 children have participated in the project during their stay at holiday camps, attending more than 500 environmental education work-shops and collecting about 1,800 tons of aluminum cans on Poland’s Baltic Sea coast. Projects have been established in other regions as well. 
A similar organization – “recan” 
Fund for Recovery and Recy-cling of used beverage cans – was founded by Ball in Serbia in 2005 as a nonprofit organization with comparable goals and programs. 
In parallel to these educational 
organizations, the recycling 
organization “recan” was started in 
2004 to support and improve the collection of used beverage cans. The organization operates recycling centers in Germany, Netherlands, Poland, Serbia and the United Kingdom. Used cans are tested for material quality, sorted, pressed into briquettes and then forwarded to the metalworking industry. The briquettes are melted down and transformed into metal suitable for producing new beverage cans.The Curbside Value Partnership helps create special recycling campaigns for local 
communities, like this one in Louisiana. 
Metal Cans and 
Sustainability
  Metal beverage and food cans 
are 100 percent endlessly 
recyclable, without loss of 
quality, in a material-to-  
material process (aluminum-  
to-aluminum, steel-to-steel). 
Empty steel aerosol and paint 
cans can be recycled in the 
same steel recycling process. 
  A well developed and 
sustainable recycling infra-
structure exists in North America 
and Europe for aluminum and 
steel, providing recycled source 
materials for a wide variety of 
metal products. 
  In addition to being light 
in weight, cans can be 
manufactured and filled at high 
speeds, and are cost effective 
throughout the supply chain 
including recycling. Aluminum 
has the highest scrap value of 
all  packaging types .
  Cans provide product protec-
tion, a long shelf life and are an 
effective barrier against light and oxygen.
  Cans handle the rigors of 
transportation better than other 
packaging, reducing the need 
for extra package protection.
  Recycling	saves	95	percent	of 	
the energy needed to produce 
aluminum from virgin materials 
and 74 percent of the energy 
needed to produce steel from 
virgin materials. 
  Food cans provide energy effi-
cient storage requiring no refrig-
eration to protect the  contents. 
Sustainable Packaging 15 In Asia, Ball has also started a 
“recan” program, which became 
fully operational in 2007. During 2006, our representatives met with the city governments of Shanghai, Shenzhen and Qingdao to discuss creating a can collection network in those cities as the basis for a nationwide can recycling program. In June 2007, Ball launched the “recan” program promotion at the 
Shanghai Exhibition of Energy 
Conservation and Environmental Protection. In addition to can recycling, energy savings and environmental protection, “recan” provides educational materials on the benefits of recycling. Metals Life Cycle Inventory 
We are working with the metals industries in North America and Europe to complete a life cycle inventory in 2008 of metal cans. It will allow us to fully understand the impacts in each stage of the life cycle, identify opportunities for improvement and determine the carbon footprints of these packages. The data are being collected for aluminum and steel production, as 
well as can manufacturing. For the 
first time, beverage can life cycle inventories in the United States and Europe will be based on the same methodology. Environmental Performance
Goals
 Strengthen Environmental Management Systems
•	Certify	final	existing	European	plant	to	the	ISO	14001	standard	in	2008.
•	Implement 	an	environmental 	management 	system	based	on	ISO	
14001 criteria in North American packaging and plants in China that 
are not already certified by 2010.
 Increase Energy Efficiency; Reduce Greenhouse Gas Emissions  
•	Reduce	greenhouse	gas	emissions	globally	by	16	percent	in	10	years, 	
using 2002 as a baseline.
•	Complete	implementation	of	an	energy	management	system	in	our 	
European plants by 2010.
 Reduce Pollutant Emissions and Optimize Resource Use
•	Formalize	a	plan	to	further	reduce	global	volatile	organic	compounds 	
emissions by 2010.
•	Reduce 	hazardous 	waste	by	150,000	pounds	in	North	American 	food	
and household products packaging plants in 2008 by installing more 
efficient coating technology.
•	Survey	all	North	American	packaging	plants	to	determine	the	specific 	
types and quantities of waste currently generated and, where possible, divert the waste streams into recycling streams by 2009.
•	Analyze	water	usage	in	our	packaging	facilities	to	determine	water	use 	
inefficiencies by 2009.
•	Evaluate	potential	use	of	isopropyl	alcohol	from	our	aerospace 	
business as a product in the printing industry by 2009 instead of disposing of it.
Environmental Performance 16
Reduce Our Environmental Footprint
We will continue to improve the environmental performance of our 
manufacturing facilities and decrease our energy use and the greenhouse gas emissions from our operations. This will benefit the environment and 
reduce our costs.Ball’s Global Environmental Policy
Ball Corporation seeks to operate in an environmentally responsible 
manner with a continued emphasis on reducing our businesses’ impact on the environment. It is the policy of the company to conduct business 
activities and operations in a manner that minimizes current and future 
environmental risk to the company and complies with applicable environmental laws, regulations and requirements. The company will utilize its environmental management program to achieve the intent of 
this policy.
Policy Implementation 
 Each plant/facility manager has overall responsibility for compliance 
with all environmental requirements. If there is  no plant/facility 
manager within Ball Aerospace, compliance responsibility rests with the program or functional area management.
 Each part of Ball shall develop and maintain an environmental 
management program to direct and document regulatory compliance 
activities. The environmental management program shall include 
elements that focus on compliance with environmental requirements 
and improving and enhancing environmental performance. The 
Corporate Compliance Committee will review such programs to 
evaluate adequacy, consistency and compliance with environmental 
requirements. As business needs dictate, plants will obtain ISO 
14001 certifications.
 The company will periodically review compliance status. Information 
concerning review of compliance status will be communicated to 
appropriate levels of management.
 The company will conduct, prior to completion of the transaction, 
environmental assessments, as appropriate, on properties and 
businesses under consideration for acquisition, sale, lease or 
joint venture.
17 Environmental PerformanceStrengthen Environmental 
Management Systems
Our environmental performance is 
based on our global environmental policy. We are committed to strengthening our environmental 
management systems and conduct-
ing our business in a manner that minimizes current and future environmental risks for our company and the communities in which we operate.
 Our organized efforts on 
environmental compliance began in 1968 with surveys and assessments of energy conservation opportunities at 14 locations in North America. Our focus on environmental management systems began in 1995. Today, 
all of our plants have systems 
in place and all but one of our European plants are certified to ISO 14001. That plant is applying for certification in 2008. In China, the Beijing plant is certified to ISO 14001 and all plants in 
China will develop environmental 
management systems programs based on ISO 14001.
We implement environmental 
management systems to reduce our environmental impacts and man-age costs and to demonstrate to the 
global community that we conduct 
business in a responsible manner. Since 1995, these systems have clearly improved our environmen-tal performance in significant ways, enabling us to:Global Energy Consumption
(gigajoules) 
 2005 2006 200712,156,339
12,088,132
12,230,140
Between 2005 and 2007, Ball’s 
global energy efficiency improved 7 percent, reducing our CO
2 emissions 
by the same amount relative to production. Our CO
2 emissions are 
primarily from the use of gas and electricity. Our production volumes 
grew by approximately 13 percent 
during this time period.
18 Environmental Performance  Understand, monitor and man-
age our environmental impacts.
  Identify emerging requirements 
and implement compliance strategies ahead of deadlines.
  Establish program consistency 
throughout the corporation.
We have a strong record of 
environmental compliance. Since 
2005, there have been only eight 
citations resulting in fines totaling 
$23,000 among all 62 packag-ing plants.
Increase Energy Efficiency; 
Reduce Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
Ball recognizes climate change can 
have a substantial impact on the environment, our business and our long-term success as an enterprise. 
We are committed to reducing 
greenhouse gas emissions and are taking measures to document and register those emission reductions.
Our worldwide company goal, 
established in 2008, is to decrease greenhouse gas emissions intensity 
(as measured by ratio of energy 
consumed per unit of production input) by 16 percent by 2012 (based on a 2002 baseline) primar-ily through energy efficiency improvements. We have imple-mented energy savings programs, 
including compressed air improve-
ments, energy efficient lighting, process heat recovery, manufactur-ing efficiencies, equipment upgrades and heating, ventilation and air conditioning controls in many plants and plan to 
continue implementing these 
types of projects.
Our packaging operations 
in North America and Europe 
funded 60 energy savings capital projects between 2005 and 2007 that have resulted in a reduction of approximately 590,000 gigajoules, 
the equivalent to removing more 
than 18,000 automobiles from the road annually.
Our European operations 
are implementing an energy management system with online reporting and monitoring for every 
existing European plant by 2010. 
This will enable us to understand the energy consumption in our complex manufacturing process, identify the processes that are most energy intensive and evaluate energy savings opportunities. 
Through continuous monitoring, 
we will note anomalies in energy consumption and will be able to react immediately to make needed improvements. The system will also enable us to compare the energy efficiency of the same processes 
in different plants so we can 
identify and expand best practices throughout the company. Online energy  consumption data will help 
promote environmental awareness 
and an energy conservation mind-set throughout the company. 
Each of our plants in China 
has recently formed an energy conservation team focused on 
Global CO2 Emissions
(metric tons) 
 2005 2006 20071,492,593
1,537,722
1,560,530Environmental Performance 19identification and implementation 
of energy conservation efforts. 
Ball Corporation is participating 
in initiatives and industry 
organizations focused on energy 
efficiency and climate change issues. These activities will help us to achieve our long-term energy and greenhouse gas emission reduction goals by providing guidance on energy management 
systems and best practices.
Climate Leaders Program 
In 2002, we became a charter 
member of the U.S. Environ-mental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Climate Leaders program, an 
industry-government partnership 
in which corporations work to develop comprehensive climate change strategies. In 2004, we made an aggressive commitment to reduce our North American 
greenhouse gas emissions by 
16 percent by 2012, using 2002 
as a baseline. 
Due to the efficiency gains from 
our energy savings projects and the implementation of energy manage-
ment systems, our Climate Leaders 
GHG emission intensity in the United States declined by 2 percent 
in 2007. These reductions have helped offset energy intensity in-creases from new equipment used to improve product quality, the 
manufacturing process associated 
with more energy intensive packag-ing products and from processes to meet new air emission regulations. 
Ball has also committed to 
the following:
  Development of a corporate-
wide greenhouse gas emission inventory of the six major gases (CO
2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, 
SF6) using the World Resources 
Institute GHG emission report-ing protocol.
  Development of a corporate 
greenhouse gas inventory  management plan.
  Annual reporting of inventory 
data and documented progress towards the reduction goal.
In Europe we replaced chilled water systems with 
standardized cooling towers and small decentral-ized chillers. The investment for two production 
sites	was	650,000	euros	and	the	total	savings	in	
electricity is 14 Mio. kWh per year, equivalent to 7,000 tons of CO
2 per year.In addition to our Climate Leaders 
commitment, Ball supports this pro-gram by presenting Climate Leaders to government and private organizations, thus helping to recruit other companies.Environmental Performanceimpacts during the past several 
years and are committed to con-tinuing that improvement (SPC Principles E & F). To this end, we 
have programs in place throughout 
all of our businesses in the follow-ing areas:
Volatile Organic Compounds 
and Hazardous Air Pollutants
Our manufacturing facilities release 
a variety of regulated air emissions. Our largest impact relates to the release of volatile organic com-
pounds generated by vaporization 
of organic solvents in can coatings and drying those coatings. In the presence of ultraviolet light and nitrogen oxides, they form ozone, sometimes called “summer smog.”
We have worked to reduce 
volatile organic compounds since the mid-1980s by changing to water-based can coatings and installing regenerative thermal oxidizers, devices that destroy a minimum of 95 percent of cap-
tured volatile organic compounds. 
T o date, over  60 percent of our 
 beverage can plants are equipped 
with regenerative thermal oxidizers. The environmental trade-off is that they contribute to CO
2 emissions 
because they combust fuel. 
T o further reduce volatile 
organic compounds, technological 
progress and cooperation with our 
suppliers is needed. We recently installed new technology to more efficiently apply coatings in some of our food and household Carbon Disclosure Project
In 2007, we reported our CO2 
emissions to the Carbon Disclosure Project, an independent, not-for-profit organization, that seeks 
to create cooperation between 
shareholders and corporations on climate change. 
Renewable Energy
Principle C of the SPC guidelines sets forth the long-range vision that sustainable packaging is sourced, manufactured, transported and recycled using renewable energy. Many of our aluminum suppliers 
use hydro energy in the production 
of primary aluminum; however, we do not currently use any renewable energy in our production process, other than what is available in the 
local energy supply. Our primary 
effort is directed toward creating greater energy efficiency across all of our manufacturing operations, which is where we can make the biggest impact. We have explored, and will continue to explore, 
opportunities for directly using 
renewable energy. 
Reduce Pollutant 
Emissions and Optimize Resource Use
Ball’s major impacts on the envi-
ronment come from the generation of air emissions, waste, wastewater, the consumption of water and 
management of chemicals used 
mainly in our can manufacturing processes. We have reduced those 
20Process Emitted Volatile 
Organic Compounds
(metric tons) 
 2005 2006 20076,477
6,804
7,094Our North American packaging 
facilities and Ball Aerospace are members of the U.S. EPA’s voluntary 
Energy Star Partner program. Energy 
Star is a voluntary industry/government partnership and commitment to improve energy efficiency.
Although we have significantly reduced 
volatile organic compounds over the 
years, the increases reflected on this 
chart are mainly due to increased production and a shift to larger beverage can sizes.Environmental Performance 21products packaging plants, 
resulting in a 70 percent decrease in volatile organic compounds emissions in those plants. We plan 
to implement a design change in 
a beverage end plant in 2008 to reduce emissions by an additional 22 tons. 
We have also worked to 
eliminate hazardous air pollutants at our beverage and food and 
household packaging products 
plants. We reduced these emissions by approximately 45  percent 
between 2005 and 2007. Some of this reduction was due to the proper reclassification of one hazardous air pollutant to 
a nonhazardous classification.
Waste Management
Material use and waste volumes 
are important yardsticks to deter-mine the efficiency of our pro-cesses. Waste reduction, reuse and recycling help cut disposal costs 
in addition to creating environ-
mental benefits such as resource conservation. We strive to recycle all materials that have a viable end use market. We have pioneered innovative recycling initiatives such as the use of wastewater treatment 
sludge as a road base component. 
We also repurposed spent solvent as cleaner for railroad tanker cars.
In the mid-1980s, beverage can 
coating and cleaning materials changed from solvent to water-based products. Each of our North 
American beverage can plants 
generated more than one ton of hazardous waste per month prior to the change. Today, none of our North American beverage can plants do so.
We have reduced excess 
packaging through bulk purchas-ing of certain materials. In most 
We have installed energy efficient lighting in many of our facilities. 
In addition to new lighting, Ball Aerospace installed individual room lighting occu pancy sensors and building lighting controls for night 
shut-off. Our North American packaging plants installed energy efficient	lighting	at	16	facilities	between	2005	and	2007.	We	expect	the new lighting to reduce energy consumption by more than 22 million kWh per year, equivalent to 1.6 percent of the annual 
electricity consumption of our North American operations. In Europe, 
Ball has replaced fluorescent lighting at four plants with more energy efficient lighting.
22 Environmental Performanceof our packaging operations in 
Europe and North America, we use reusable plastic pallets, that last about five times longer than 
wooden pallets.
Our waste management program 
is managed properly by physical 
inspections of disposal sites and in-ternal waste management controls.
Water Management
Our main use of water is in wash-ing cans after they are formed from aluminum and steel coils. We reuse water in the can washing process 
by returning water from the final 
cleaning stage (containing the cleanest water) into prior washer stages. We plan to establish global water reduction goals in 2009, af-ter we have a better understanding of our water use and efficiency.
All aluminum beverage can 
plants have wastewater treatment systems. These systems remove specified contaminants and neutralize effluents to meet federal, country, state, provincial and local requirements. Steel 
packaging plants do not need 
wastewater treatment because all cleaning materials used are water soluble.
Ball has also dedicated resources 
to minimizing the impact our operations have on storm water 
runoff, including chemical 
loading safety procedures to minimize the potential for storm water contamination.Chemical Management
We manage all chemicals used in the production process as well as those used for maintenance, cleaning and other activities in the 
workplace through a materials 
approval process. We verify conformance with environmental, internal health and safety require-ments and customer requirements prior to material purchases. Over the past 10 years, we have reduced 
or eliminated chemicals with 
 potentially adverse human 
health or environmental  impacts, including polyvinyl 
 chloride, formaldehyde and 
methylene chloride.
Our production process for 
steel beverage and food cans 
does not use chemicals in the washing process, sig ni fi cantly 
reducing the amount of chemicals used in these processes.
Bisphenol A (BPA) is used in the 
manufacture of numerous prod-
ucts, including epoxy can coatings. 
The metal can industry has used epoxy can coatings containing BPA for decades. Scientific evidence from several different regula-tory agencies in the United States (including the U.S. Food and 
Drug Administration), Europe and 
Japan has consistently shown these coatings to be safe. Despite these findings and reassurances, other independent studies have raised questions about possible health effects related to BPA. Based on Global Water Consumption
(gallons in billions) 
 2005 2006 2007
Our global water usage declined by 
three percent over the reporting period, 
as our company grew significantly.
1.44
1.42
1.39Environmental Performance 23regulatory and expert opinions, 
we remain confident that epoxy can coatings are safe for consumers.  Alternative can coatings exist but 
are not suitable for broad applica-
tions because they cannot meet all performance criteria. Alternatives are being developed and tested by industry. They must pass rigorous testing processes and regulatory ap-provals and be deemed appropriate 
for use in a wide variety of applica-
tions before we can use them. The plastic bottles we manufacture are made from PET, HDPE and Poly-propylene resins, none of which contain BPA.          
In Europe new regulation 
on Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) took effect in June 2007. It requires hazard and risk assessment product classification and labeling information. The regulation transfers the responsibility 
for the safe use of chemicals 
from government to industry and it applies to all substances manufactured or imported into the EU in quantities of one ton or more per year. Ball is not a manufacturer or importer of 
chemical substances; however, 
some of the materials we purchase may contain substances that are subject to registration. We have approached our suppliers to ensure product components will be registered. In the event any are 
not, we are prepared to launch 
qualification programs to replace non-registered chemicals.
In	2007,	three	of	our	United	States	plastic	packaging	plants	
installed systems to capture high pressure air and “recycle” it at a reduced pressure, saving an estimated 12 million kWh 
per year. High pressure air is used to form bottles and uses 
a significant amount of energy.
Social Performance
Goals    
 Improve Safety Performance
•	Reduce	total	incident	rate	by	a	minimum	of	15	percent	globally	in	2008.
•	Implement	formalized	health	and	safety	management	systems	by	2009. 	
•	Implement	behavior-based	safety	programs	at	new	plants	in	Europe.
 Increase Diversity
•	Increase 	diversity	in	the	applicant 	pool	by	20	percent	in	the	
United	States	by	2012. 	
•	Reduce	turnover	of	female	and	minority	employees	by	20	percent	in	the 	
United	States	by	2012. 	
Social Performance 24Improve Safety 
Performance
Safety is a major emphasis at Ball’s 
facilities. Our goal as a company is to have no accidents and injuries. Our primary emphasis is on enhancing our safety culture. Our 
incident rates are consistently lower 
than the injury statistics in each of our manufacturing categories provided by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, but we need to do much more to achieve our ultimate goal of zero accidents. The graph on page 26 shows the 
total recordable incident rate in each of our operating divisions. T o accurately depict global incident rates, these numbers have been normalized to represent incidents per one hundred employees. 
T ragically, we had two fatali-
ties in operations we acquired in 
2006 – an employee in our Garin, 
Argentina, plant in August 2006 and a summer employee in our Elgin, Illinois, plant in June 2007.  Prior to these two accidents, we had not experienced a fatality since Care for Our Employees and Communities
We will enhance the health, safety and well-being of our employees and 
continue to have a favorable impact in the communities we call home. This will make us a stronger company and an even more appealing employer.
Employees in the 
Batavia, Illinois, polypropylene plant worked with a supplier to design a safer way to change heavy molds by using a customized air balancer. In addition to the safety benefit, pro-ductivity was increased.25 Social Performance1999. With our overall goal of 
no accidents or injuries, a fatality is extremely saddening for us as a company. 
Health and Safety 
Management Systems
T o improve health and safety 
performance in North America, in 2007 Ball committed to the American National Standards 
Institute (ANSI) Z-10 standard 
for Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems. This standard emphasizes behaviors and measures the systems, tools and methods used to manage health and safety. The standard includes 
management leadership, employee 
participation, planning and peri-odic evaluation – as opposed to measuring compliance. We expect to complete the integration process by January 2009, at which time we will start auditing against the 
ANSI Z-10 standard. 
In Europe, Ball has implemented 
the Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001 International Standard for 
Health and Safety Management 
Systems. External audits by a third party, with the goal of certification, were initiated in 2007. Ball will focus on risk assessments in accordance with European regulatory requirements. Our 
operations in China will begin 
implementation of OHSAS  18001 
in 2008. 
Employee involvement is clearly 
a major factor in improving safety and reducing injury rates. Most of our facilities have implemented 
behavior-based programs and/or 
safety awareness training. These programs help employees avoid work habits that increase the  potential for accidents by promot-
ing a culture of prevention and of watching out for the safety 
of others.
Health and safety program 
management is primarily the 
responsibility of plant or facility managers, who are assisted 
Our Golden, Colorado, plant achieved the Star Level of 
Certification	from	the	U.S.	Department	of	Labor	Occupational	Safety and Health Administration in June 2007. Golden is one 
of only 1,800 plants out of nine million that meet the Voluntary 
Protection Program requirements and the only facility of its type to reach this level of excellence. 
Safety Awards
Awards are given for working 
specific lengths of time without a recordable incident.
Platinum President’s Safety 
Award (3 years)
  Brampton, Ontario 
  Bristol, Virginia 
  Chestnut Hill, Tennessee 
  Deeside, 	United	Kingdom	
  Tampa, Florida 
Crystal President’s Safety 
Award (4 years)
  Saratoga Springs, New York 
Diamond President’s Safety 
Award (5 years)
  Ball Technology & Innovation 
Center, Colorado 
  Findlay, Ohio 
  Watertown, Wisconsin 
6 Year President’s 
Safety  Award 
  Tianjin, China 
7 Year President’s 
Safety  Award 
  Taicang, China 26 Social Performanceby designated personnel to 
oversee specific health and safety compliance requirements. 
Safety committees in all pack-
aging facilities play a key role in promoting health and safety by establishing safety priorities and communicating safety require-ments to all employees. In Europe, the safety committees are involved in job safety assessments – a tool 
to evaluate the hazards associated 
with a specific operation or task.
Measurement and accountability 
are among the most important fac-tors in improving health and safety and reducing injury rates. Our North American packaging opera-
tions have incorporated safety into 
all job descriptions. Safety is also in our performance appraisal process for hourly employees. In Europe, we have incorporated safety ele-ments into appraisal processes and individual job descriptions. 
Attract and Retain 
Motivated Employees
Ball strives to be an “employer 
of choice,” a place where people want to work and find that they can stay, grow and increase their 
contributions to the organization, 
enjoy rewarding personal growth and find satisfaction in their work. We employ more than 15,500 people in 90 locations. We attract employees, in part, based on our history and reputation and retain 
them based on how we treat them. 
On average, our employees stay with the company for more than 12 years. Our voluntary separation rates are under 6 percent in the United States and under 4 percent in Europe.
Ball’s “Five Keys to Success” 
(listed on page 37) describe five 
ways we all must behave in order to 
succeed together. They have been deeply ingrained in our culture for decades and reflect the bal-ance between what we expect from employees and what they can expect from the company.
In addition to the challenges 
and achievements that come from assigned responsibilities, Ball offers a variety of benefits that can help our employees improve their lives and well-being.
  We contributed a total of 
$14 million, $16 million and 
$21 million in 2005, 2006 
and 2007, respectively, to 
employee 401(k) retirement plan 
participants. 
  We contributed a total of 
$115.7 million to defined benefit pension plans in the United States in 2007, which were approxi-
mately 95 percent funded as of 
December 31, 2007. 
  30 percent of our employees 
participate in our Employee Stock Purchase Plan, which includes a 20 percent company match on up 
to $6,000 per year of employee 
contributions.Total Recordable Incident  
Rates By Division
(percent)
 2006
 2007Total Recordable Cases
Ball in comparison with the U.S. Bureau of 
Labor Statistics average rates for industry. 
(percent)
Metal Food & Household
0 1 2 3 4 5 Plastics
Metal BeverageAerospace
 Ball Total Recordable Cases
 Industry Average Total Recordable Cases
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10Food & Household, Americas 
Metal Beverage, Americas 
Plastic Packaging, Americas
Metal Beverage, Europe
China
AerospaceSocial Performance 27Education and Training
We have a long-standing 
commitment to employee education and training. Our employees receive an average of 
more than 20 hours of training 
annually in the areas of health and safety, legal requirements, compliance and management and technical skills. 
We have also tapped into the 
flexibility of online education 
programs to enable employees to 
advance their education at home, at work or while traveling. We offer more than 1,000 online courses to our employees and their families. Since 2005, Ball employees and their families have logged more 
than 30,000 hours of voluntary 
online education time. 
We encourage employees 
to continue their education and 
offer a tuition reimbursement program. Since its inception we have provided more than $9 
million in tuition reimbursement 
to approximately 3,500 employees.
Performance Management, 
Succession Planning and Growth 
Employees are expected to receive 
an annual performance appraisal. More than 90 percent of our salaried and nonunion worldwide 
employees have documented an-
nual performance discussions. We identify skills and gaps, develop  actions for addressing shortfalls and areas of exposure and find 
ways to promote individual careers.
In Europe, we offer a trainee 
program for career development in an international business environment. The program provides an opportunity to 
qualified junior  employees to 
gain in-depth knowledge of the 
company in various countries in which we operate.
Career planning and develop-
ment are an integral part of our overall people strategy. We use 
our succession planning process 
to accelerate the development of key internal candidates by creat-ing comprehensive individualized development plans that include educational and experiential learn-ing opportunities. We measure the 
success of our succession planning 
and normal employee development processes in terms of the number of employees promoted internally versus outside hires. During 2006 and 2007, we filled more than 70 percent of all openings above entry 
level with internal candidates.
Increase Diversity and 
Reduce  Turnover 
Workplace demographics are 
changing; women and minori-ties will make up a much larger portion of potential employees 
in the future. Employee diversity 
is a business imperative for our company, bringing fresh perspec-tives, top talent and new solutions to our business.Diversity
Ball supports organizations 
that are committed to increasing diversity, 
including: 
  Thurgood Marshall 
College Fund 
  Outstanding Women in 
Technology
  National Association of  
Black Engineers
  Society of Women 
Engineers
  Women in Aerospace
  Women’s Vision 
Foundation
  Women in Computing 
  Society of Hispanic 
Professional Engineers 
2007 U.S. Health Care Cost 
per Ball Employee  
$8,886
In North America we offer a variety of 
health care plans to address the different 
needs of our employees, including  domestic partner health coverage. We 
pay the majority of these costs. Ball Share – $7,597 (85.5%)
Employee Share – $1,289 (14.5%)Ball Packaging Europe supports a Ratingen-
based initiative that is working towards improving the living conditions of children in India. This 
includes supporting two primary schools in 
Simon Colony in southern India, a region that was strongly affected by a tsunami in 2004. Since then Ball Packaging Europe donated more than 
10,000 euros for reconstructing the schools and 
buying equipment and furniture.
28 Social Performanceof ways. Our company often 
matches donations and supports volunteer activities by donating company resources.
  In Europe, we allocate a budget 
for social commitment of 5,000 euros per year per facility. All  activities are related to our core 
values and therefore are focused 
on either social or environmental sustainability. In 2006 and 2007 our sites supported numerous local and some international projects and initiatives for medi-cal treatment, clean up of public 
places and parks and the support increase the number of women employees, especially in middle 
and upper management posi-tions. At the end of 2007, women comprised 12 percent of our senior management team in Europe.
Volunteerism and Giving 
in Our Communities
Ball Corporation strives to 
enrich the communities in which we work beyond traditional economic investments such as jobs, 
benefits and paying local taxes. 
Among our many activities, our employees volunteer for numerous organizations and donate for causes in local  communities in a number Our United States-based diversity 
initiative is designed to fully engage current employees as we continue to attract the best and brightest new 
hires. The adjacent charts show the 
makeup of our 2006 United States employee population.
From 2002 to 2007, our North 
American employee population increased by more than 37 percent, largely through acquisitions. 
During that same time period, in 
North America, we experienced a 51 percent increase in the number of women employees and a 72 percent increase in minority employees. At the same time, our population of manager-level 
employees increased more than 
20 percent. The number of women in those positions increased 
32 percent and the number of minorities increased 16 percent. 
In Europe, we do not have a sys-
tematic approach to diversity, given 
the broad geographies and diversity 
of cultures in which we operate. One measure of diversity is to Males – 82%
Females – 18%
Minorities make up 7 percent 
of the total.2006 U.S. Ball  
Management Population
Males – 78%
Females – 22%
Minorities make up 11 percent 
of the total.2006 U.S. Ball  
Employee PopulationSocial Performance 29of two Indian schools that were 
 affected by a tsunami in  2004. 
  We support our employees and 
higher education in the United States through our matching gifts program whereby we match gifts 
by Ball employees to eligible col-
leges, universities or other higher learning organizations, up to $3,000 per employee per year. In 2007, $312,000 was donated by Ball and our employees. 
  We address needs in our com-
munities by supporting a variety of nonprofit organizations by matching employee donations 
up to $1,000 per employee per 
year. Through the matching gifts activities, Ball and its employ-ees in North America donated almost $800,000 in 2006-2007. Our employees thus have a strong role in directing our 
 corporate giving.  
  Each Ball plant in North Amer-
ica sets aside a specific amount of money each year for targeted donations within the local com-
munity. Many plants also hold 
an annual United Way drive.
  Our annual United Way 
campaign conducted by our corporate and packaging employees in Colorado raised 
more than $900,000 in 
2006-2007 from employees, which Ball matched, dollar for dollar. Ball Aerospace was recognized as the single largest contributor to the annual Foothills (Boulder, Colorado) volunteer activities throughout the year. Those  activities in 
2007  included repairing several 
Denver area homes as part of a 
national Rebuilding Together event, monthly staffing and help at a local food bank and cleaning up open space land.
  Ball helps local organizations 
such as Junior Achievement in classrooms and with in-kind contributions and resources. United Way campaign in 2005, 2006 and 2007, donating more than $1.6 million during that three-year period. 
  Ball employees donate thousands 
of hours volunteering in their communities. For example, in Colorado, where Ball employs 
more than 3,000 people, an 
employee volunteer task force called BEACON (Ball Em-ployee Action & Community Outreach Network) coordinates 
Caring for Our Employees
Two of the Ball programs that help improve the lives of our  employees 
and their families:
Military Service Policy
Since the military actions in Iraq and Afghanistan began, we have 
paid	the	difference	between	what	our	United	States	employees	called	to service earn on active duty and what they would have earned if 
they had continued to work for us. We have also continued benefits 
for more than 80 employees and their dependents since 2003 during their period of active duty. We have extended our policy on military service four times and now provide adjusted pay and benefits for up 
to 24 months to help these employees and their families during their 
service deployment.
John W. Fisher Scholarship
Ball established the John W. Fisher Scholarship in 1980. Each year children of Ball employees are selected to receive the scholarship to	help	pay	the	cost	of	higher	education.	In	2005,	the	program	was	
expanded to include our European employees. Scholarship recipients 
are eligible to receive a $3,000/¤2,000 annual award for a maximum of four years or until a baccalaureate degree is earned. Ball gave scholarships in 2007 totaling approximately $100,000 for 34 students 
in eight countries. Since 1980, we have awarded over $1.3 million in 
this program to almost 200 students.Economic Performance
Economic Performance 30Ball reports its financial 
performance in the company’s annual report and quarterly news 
releases. Our corporate strategy 
is stated in the box on the left and our business goals are the first three goals listed above. Our sustainability goals will play an important role in helping us achieve our financial goals. In this 
section, we highlight sustainability 
goals and issues that compliment our overall performance or affect us indirectly through their impact on larger economies.Our packaging businesses 
 accounted for 89 percent of Ball’s 
total net sales in 2007, 32 percent 
of that coming from markets out-
side the United States. Our largest single product line –  aluminum 
and steel beverage cans – expe-rienced strong growth both in Europe and in China.
Our packaging products 
are used in many countries and comply with packaging and environmental laws and regulations. We monitor developments, evaluate possible Goals
 Long-term earnings per share growth of 10 to 15 percent 
over time. 
 Generate returns in excess of our cost of capital in all of  
our businesses
 Increase Economic Value Added. 
 Continue to develop innovations in our processes and  
products  as we work closely with customers and suppliers  
on shared opportunities. 
 Support small businesses and minority-owned businesses.
 Advocate sensible public policy that protects our ability to produce 
and sell our products and services consistent with sustainability 
and good government. Create Prosperity for Us and Others
We seek to prosper in ways that also create prosperity for others, particularly 
through innovations in our products and processes. Our continued financial success will enable us to create benefits for those with whom we interact.
Ball’s Corporate 
Strategy
Our corporate strategy is to 
grow our worldwide beverage 
can business and aerospace 
business, to improve the 
performance of the food and 
household products pack-
aging business and plastic 
packaging business and to 
utilize free cash flow and 
earnings growth to increase shareholder value.31 Economic Performanceeffects on our businesses and – 
when necessary – develop and execute strategies to address opportunities and risks, including:
  Increased government interven-
tion relating to environmental protection, causing operational and compliance costs to rise 
over time. 
  Legislation that could restrict 
the use of our packages.
  Higher prices for key raw 
materials and energy. 
  Changes in retailer and 
consumer preferences between metal, plastic, glass and composite packaging due to 
environmental perceptions. 
We are aware of these challenges 
and address them proactively, often as opportunities to differentiate 
our company from competitors. Our activities include:
  Building a worldwide network 
to work closely with policy makers to ensure  balanced 
regulation for free choice of 
packages and nondiscriminatory, 
effective collection systems that support recycling.
  Continuing to reduce energy, 
water and disposal costs, as well as material use in our products. 
  Passing through cost increases to 
our customers and reducing costs throughout the organization. 
  Implementing a comprehensive 
energy reduction strategy.
  Expanding our global bever-
age can business in some of 
Economic Contributions
($ in millions)  2007 2006 2005
Economic Value Generated 
Total revenues ..............................................................  $7,390 $6,622 $5,751
Income from equity investments ..................................  13 15 16
   $7,403 $6,637 $5,767
Economic Value Distributed
Operating costs – including payments  
to employees (1) ........................................................  $6,513 $5,789 $5,004
Interest expense ............................................................  149 134 116 
Payments to government tax authorities ......................            99         176         130 
Payments for charitable contributions ..........................              2             2             2 
Payments to shareholders – dividends &  
net share repurchases ...............................................          252            87         401
  $7,015 $6,188 $5,653
Difference – economic profit retained in the business  
available for repayment of debt, investments  
and other purposes ..................................................  $7,388 $7, 449 $7, 114
(1)  Includes cost of sales excluding depreciation and amortization plus selling, general and 
administrative costs.Aergo® shaped aerosol container
Alumi-T ek® bottle
Gamma-Clear® plastic jar
Our Innovations
Recloseable can
32 Economic Performancemanufacturing and filling processes 
– have been borne by all parties and the capital investments usually created a return. Most of these 
innovations were not apparent 
to the consumer. This coopera-tion has led to some very refined delivery systems for packaging and the business models for food and beverage packaging are based on those systems. 
Most successful packaging 
inno vation in our industry has 
been process-related. Light-weight-
ing, increasing manufacturing speeds and reducing end sizes have added economic benefit to us and our customers and have passed 
almost unnoticed by consumers. 
Since 2006, Ball has introduced a number of innovations designed to appeal to consumers. Some of them offer sustainability benefits such as source reduction or easier recyclability compared to existing 
packages. Others will help our 
 customers showcase their brand 
image by using higher quality the world’s strongest develop-ing markets. 
  Driving innovations for 
developing products that meet consumer needs and sustainability requirements. 
Continue to Develop 
Innovations in Our Processes and Products
In addition to sustainability con-
siderations, successful packaging innovation must meet a variety of needs – consumer needs, retailer 
and brand owner growth oppor-
tunities and package capabili-ties – as well as work in terms of our manufacturing expertise and capabilities. We work closely with our customers and have a process 
(see chart below) to evaluate ideas 
to ensure that our new packaging has the best chance to meet these needs and become commercially successful. Ball employs a disci-plined innovation management system that is tailored for each of our  business units. 
Over the years process in-
novation costs – innovations in 
Eyeris ™ enhanced can printing
Laser incised tabs
PET wine bottle
New 
TechnologiesNew 
ProductsBall’s Approach to Innovation Management
Idea 
ManagementMonitoring
Passive 
observationSourcing/
IdentifyingScreening/
PrioritizingDeveloping/
ExecutingProduct/
Technology
Scouting
Active SearchIdeasInnovation 
Project 
ManagementOur Innovations
Fusion-T ek ™ microwavable can
sured snowfall melt and accumula-
tion from July 1999 through July 2005 that showed unmistakable evidence of widespread Antarctic 
melting – the most significant melt 
data obtained using satellites in three decades.
  The Synthetic Aperture Radar 
antennas, which amassed 
topographic data covering 
more than 47.6 million square miles of Earth’s surface for the Shuttle Radar Topography 
Mission (SRTM) in 2000. 
Processed SRTM data has provided topographic maps that detail a large percentage of Earth’s land surface, affording accurate shape and land height information for flood control, 
soil conservation, reforestation, 
earthquake research and volcano and glacier monitoring.
Our aerospace contribu-
tions have had an impact on 
environmental policy. Ball built the spacecraft and one of three science instruments for the Earth 
Economic Performance 33that provide critical climate and environmental data to assist policy makers in decision making. Ball has developed technology that 
helps scientists better understand 
our planet’s  atmosphere, ice mass, 
oceans, clouds and wind.
Key scientific discoveries about 
climate change and its effects on 
the Earth relied significantly on 
our instruments and spacecraft, including: 
  The Solar Backscatter Ultravio-
let Radiometer, which helped confirm the ozone hole above Antarctica in 1987.
  The Ice, Cloud and Land Eleva-
tion Satellite (ICESat), the first spacecraft to map the Earth’s total ice volume. Elevation profiles 
supplied by ICESat helped 
confirm in 2006 that glaciers in Antarctica are collapsing at a faster rate than predicted, which may eventually cause a sea-level rise due to polar ice cap warming.
  The Quick Scattero meter (Quik-
SCAT), launched in 1999,  mea-decoration methods like Eyeris ™ 
or waterless printing.
Ball is uniquely positioned 
among packaging companies 
because we serve multiple end 
markets with multiple substrates. For example, consumers are drawn to plastic containers because of the benefit of reclosability. We have 
been able to leverage that benefit in 
aluminum with the introduction of the Alumi-Tek
® bottle, a package 
that can be used across virtually any filling process and weighs less than competing aluminum bottles. 
In Europe, we introduced a can 
with a recloseable end, which will also be available for our worldwide can business.
Ultimately, innovation costs 
money and good innovation creates value. Our future success 
requires that we continue to create 
and sustain growth through suc-cessful packaging innovation.
Ball Aerospace Innovation
Ball develops innovative spacecraft, sensors, systems and components In autumn 2006, the Metal Packaging Manufacturers’ Association 
presented Ball Packaging Europe with a “Can of the Year Award” for its beverage can with a laser design. The artistic design, the excellent 
optical effects, the new brand differentiation and image-creating options 
offered by laser technology were the crucial criteria in the assessment.
34 Economic Performanceof applications, including natural 
resource management, agricultural monitoring and land use planning. OLI is slated for a 2011 launch.
Support Small and Minority-
Owned Businesses
As with employment diversity, a 
diverse supplier base is important to our continued success. We have two programs, with dedicated 
personnel, that support minority 
subcontractors; the Small Busi-ness Program in Aerospace and the Supplier Diversity Program for our North American packaging busi-nesses (see  charts below and on the 
next page). 
Advocate Sensible 
Public Policy
Ball produces packaging that is 
sometimes regulated. Additional regulation may be imposed in  Radiation Budget Satellite (ERBS), 
launched in 1984. ERBS contrib-uted ozone data showing the harm caused by chlorofluorocarbons, which helped motivate the interna-tional community to develop the 
Montreal Protocol on Substances 
that Deplete the Ozone Layer. 
Ball Aerospace continues to be 
engaged in programs that  provide 
environmental benefits. The 
Global Precipitation Measurement Microwave Imager (GMI) will 
improve weather and environmen-
tal forecasting by providing more accurate precipitation measure-ments from space. We will also build the Operational Land Imager (OLI), the primary instrument for the Landsat Data Continuity Mis-
sion, which has collected the most 
significant continuous record of land imagery to date for a variety 
Ball Aerospace’s small business program currently receives the high-
est rating – “Outstanding” – by the Defense Contracts Management 
Agency. Ball Aerospace’s spending with small businesses over the 
past three years is as follows: 
Small Business
 Dollars spent %
2005 $74,664,260 41.3
2006 $71,965,651 47.2
2007 $95,996,515 51.2
Small Disadvantaged Business (SDB)
 Dollars spent %
2005 $2,547,490 1.7
2006 $2,581,806 1.4
2007 $2,581,806 1.4
Ball Aerospace is a government contractor and does not track MBE dollars spent. The govern-
ment SDB classification mirrors the MBE classification. All SDB suppliers must be certified by the Small Business Administration. We are reporting the SDB classification as comparable to the MBE classification.QuikSCAT
SRTM
Solar Backscatter Ultraviolet Radiometer
ICESat
At the Rocky Mountain Supplier Development 
Council business opportunity fair in August 2007, suppliers nominated Ball for the Corporation of the 
Year award. Bea Valdez (center), manager, contract 
administration and supplier diversity, was nominated for Supplier Diversity Advocate of the Year. 
Economic Performance 35the future driven by the desire 
for waste reduction and climate change mitigation. We monitor and participate in public policy 
discussions when appropriate to 
protect and enhance our business for the many stakeholders who share in our economic success. 
In 2002, Germany enacted a 
mandatory deposit on certain one-way beverage containers – includ-
ing the beverage can, despite the 
fact that the beverage can recycling rate exceeded 85 percent – but did not provide for an adequate system of one-way container return. The demand for beverage cans virtually disappeared as a result and Ball, 
the largest supplier in Germany, 
lost the most business of any can manufacturer. The deposit eliminated a significant number of 
jobs and devastated the market 
for beverage cans. That example 
continues to remind us of the need for, and importance of, sensible public policy. 
We rely on memberships and 
participation in various broad-based business and trade organiza-tions to promote a healthy business climate and keep us informed on key issues. Ball was a founding member of the National Associa-tion of Manufacturers, now well 
over 100 years old, one of the larg-
est and most respected business ad-vocacy organizations in the United States. Our operating units are members of key industry-specific trade organizations such as the Can Manufacturers Institute, Beverage Can Makers Europe, the National Association for PET Container Resources, European Organization for Packaging,  Grocery Manufac-
turers Association and Space Foun-dation. In addition, our operating units and facilities are expected 
to be members of the appropri-
ate local chambers of 
commerce, 
manufacturers and packaging 
associations or other organizations that communicate with govern-
ment officials and  others regarding 
legislation, regulation and other 
business matters.Total Certified Minority 
Business Enterprise 
Expenditures
($ in millions) 
Percent of Total Expenditures*
 4.2% 5.6% 6.1%
* We did not include our purchases 
of aluminum, steel and resin because there are no minority or small business 
enterprises that supply these materials.  2005 2006 200716.52
24.85
27.50Stakeholder Engagement
Stakeholder Engagement 36Build on Existing Outreach 
Efforts to Develop a More Systematic Process
Ball works with many different 
stakeholders including custom-ers, suppliers, employees, regula-tors, investors and environmental 
and community organizations. 
We are committed to working systematically to make even our best relationships better by seeking common ground and working in partnerships on projects related to 
the triple bottom line impacts that 
are the focus of this report. 
This report, as well as the GRI-
based information that we have posted on our Web site, demon-strates our achievements, identi-fies our challenges and provides a strong basis upon which to Since 1997, Ball has held 
42 packaging “schools” in the United States and 
Europe, attended by 
 approximately 1,700 people 
representing more than 200 companies – most of them customers and suppliers. The 
schools demonstrate that 
we not only manufacture packages but are engaged in deepening our relationships on a broad front. strengthen relations with our stake-
holders. We will use it to deepen our common understanding of sustainability and our material 
issues, to hold ourselves account-
able and to find ways to work more closely with our stakeholders to create shared value based on 
mutual interests. 
As with many activities now 
falling under the sustainability 
umbrella, Ball has for years worked to establish good relationships with our stakeholders. One of our “Five Keys to Success” is “a total 
commitment to being close to our 
customers and understanding their needs and future direction.” As part of our sustainability initiative, we plan to build on our existing outreach efforts at Ball. Goals
 Build on our existing outreach efforts to develop a more systematic 
process for ongoing stakeholder engagement in order to work 
more efficiently and effectively with our stakeholders.
 Use our sustainability efforts as a catalyst to work with our 
stakeholders to address issues of mutual interest.Strengthen Stakeholder Relationships
We will strengthen our relationships with all those who have a stake in our 
activities and who can affect our business. This will make our company and our products more sustainable.37 Stakeholder Engagementthem customers and suppliers. 
We believe our packaging schools are a unique example of stake-holder  engagement and offer our 
stakeholders an in-depth learn-ing and engagement experience. The schools provide us with ideas for improving our products and processes and help us gain insights into our customers’ needs and expectations. The schools demon-
strate that we not only manufac-
ture packages but are engaged in deepening our relationships on a broad front. 
Our United States marketing 
department held a “Packaging Solutions” forum in July 2007, a 
first-time event that focused on the 
consumer and market trends that are driving packaging innovation in the marketplace. Packaging Schools 
Ten years ago, we held our first beverage can “school”, a class with detailed information on how beverage cans are made. Since 
then, we added a steel can school, 
a plastic bottle school and a bever-age can school in Europe. 
A typical program runs for three 
days and covers aluminum, steel or plastic packaging manufacturing processes; Ball’s operations and the 
way we do business; innovation; 
our perspective on environmental and social responsibility and specific issues such as product safety or proper handling and filling of our packages.
Ball has held 42 packaging 
schools attended by approximately 1,700 people representing more than 200 companies – most of Five Keys to 
Success
Close to Customers  
We have a total commitment 
to being close to our custom-
ers and understanding their 
needs and future direction. 
This commitment extends 
throughout our organization.
Creativity & Imagination 
Our employees’ creativity 
and imagination enable 
us to deliver innovations 
in products, process 
development and the way we 
conduct business so we can 
better serve our customers, 
grow the company and increase the value of 
the enterprise.
Behave Like Owners  
By behaving as true owners 
of the business, our employ-
ees deliver superior results and provide the best value 
in the products and services 
we supply to our customers.
Attention to Detail  
By manag  ing our operations 
with relentless attention to 
detail we are creating safe 
workplaces while building a 
great business that consis-
tently delivers superior value.
Build on Strengths  
We intend to build on our heritage of ethics, integ-
rity, quality and value in 
all our dealings by treating 
all stakeholders the way 
we would like to be treated.
Ball executives met with Shanghai, China, economic officials in May 2007 prior to Ball 
establishing the “recan” recycling program in China. The “recan” program was launched at the Shanghai Exhibition of Energy Conservation and Environment Protection in June 
2007. Similar “recan” programs were also introduced in Shenzhen and Qingdao.38 Stakeholder EngagementCustomer Surveys
Ball regularly conducts a customer 
satisfaction survey in Europe to ensure that the company is meeting the needs of its customers. 
We use the survey to identify ways 
to provide better service to our customers, principally in the following three areas: 
  Communication – improving 
complaint management and in-forming customers of anticipated problems rather than explaining 
them afterwards.
  Logistics and timing of 
 deliveries – especially important 
given the  tight supply situation 
in Europe due to the growth of 
the can market. 
  Consistency in product – our 
packages should run on our cus-tomers’ lines efficiently, regardless of which Ball plant made them.Customer T echnical 
Service Support
In our packaging businesses, 
Ball services our customers’ fill-ing lines to ensure our cans run smoothly, maximizing filling line 
efficiencies and reducing spoil-
age. Our technicians are experts in customer machinery and can recommend environmentally friendly solutions such as equip-ment that has a longer life span and can be recycled at the end of 
its life. They also provide training 
to help minimize the possibility of filling and seaming problems, that could affect the product inside the package. This is one of the many ways we work cooperatively with our customers worldwide 
to improve environmental and 
economic performance. The latest survey was conducted 
in 2007. The Customer Satisfac-tion Index (CSI) shows how well we are meeting our customers’ needs and expectations. Our score was 85.3, which was consistent with the prior survey in 2004.
 Globally, customer satisfaction 
varies from country to country but more than 76 percent of customers in the 20 countries in which Ball does business said that their needs were met “entirely” or “almost en-tirely.” We conduct a more detailed analysis to develop customized im-
provement measures where needed.
We plan to expand the surveys 
in the future to obtain feedback 
on how we are working with our customers to improve our triple bottom line performance and help them with their sustainability goals.
 Customers in China were 
surveyed in 2005, 2006 and 2007. 
Ball’s employees work with customers in their plants 
to help make our packages run smoothly on their filling lines. They are experts in customer machinery 
and can recommend environmentally friendly 
solutions to improve efficiencies. Stakeholder Engagement 39The results indicated that custom-
ers were very satisfied with product quality, customer technical service and communications. Some cus-
tomers requested improvement in 
delivery times. As a result of that request, we rented warehouse space to store cans and expedite delivery. We continue to keep in close com-munication with our customers by having regular meetings with 
them to understand and meet their 
production priorities. 
Use Our Sustainability 
Efforts as a Catalyst for Stakeholder Engagement
We have identified a wide range 
of Ball stakeholders, including our employees, our customers and 
their customers, suppliers, inves-
tors, unions and works councils, policy makers and regulators, non-governmental organizations, industry associations and our local communities. We intend to use our sustainability report as a tool to reach out systematically to these 
constituencies to determine areas 
of mutual interest or concern.
We began that process during 
the preparation of this report by asking representatives of our cus-tomers, regulators, employees and 
others to review preliminary drafts. 
We held a series of meetings be-tween December 2007 and March 2008 in the United States and in Europe at which we asked for and received very candid  comments about the report as well as our  approach to certain issues.
We heard, for example, that al-
though the range of issues that we 
addressed was comprehensive, we needed to establish more concrete goals for the future. We learned that we were not very clear about what sustainability really means to 
Ball and how we intend to work 
toward it. Our employees wanted more information about Ball’s fu-ture sustainability plans and some of our customers wanted to con-tinue the dialogue around specific issues of importance to them. 
We made substantial revisions to 
the report and began the process of uncovering areas of mutual interest – both opportunities and risks – for future discussion and possible collaboration. We came away with a much deeper understanding of 
our triple bottom line impacts 
and those of the participating stakeholders. That understanding resulted in an improved sustain-ability report.
During the next two years, we 
will improve our ability to capture 
data about our operations and 
use that data to monitor our progress in achieving our goals. We look forward to reporting on that progress in our 2009 report as we  continue to systematically 
integrate sustainability 
into our company.Case Study France: 
Open House 
in Bierne
Our can production plant in Bierne 
held an open house in September 2007 to strengthen community 
ties. Customers, suppliers, politi-
cians and representatives from associations, as well as employ-ees and their families and friends 
attended. More than 1,400 guests 
exchanged information and ideas, toured the plant and learned the can making process.
For Ball, the involvement of our 
employees in the planning and realization of such events is as important as the fostering of our relationship with the communi-
ties in which we operate. Through 
open houses, our employees enhance their identification with the company and with their local community. Many of our world-
wide plants hold open houses.
GRI Content Index
GRI Content Index 40The indicators for our sustainability reporting are selected from the Reporting Framework issued by the Global 
 Reporting Initiative (GRI). The GRI Content Index indicates which standard disclosures we determined to be 
 significant to us and where the information pertaining to each can be found.
On www.ball.com, we provide PDF files for each of the four sections of standard disclosures. These files contain 
detailed quantitative and qualitative information on standard disclosures. In the condensed index 
below, the @ symbol indicates that additional information can be found online, primarily in our GRI Content Index files.
We declare that we are applying the GRI Reporting Framework at Application Level B. For 
more details on the GRI and its Application Level system, please see www.globalreporting.org
Note: In addition to the GRI standard disclosures and core indicators listed, the items in italics are GRI additional indicators on which  
we are reporting.
1. Strategy and Analysis
1.1 CEO Statement ................................................................................................................................ 2-3
1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities ......................................................................................... 7-15, @
2. Organizational Profile
2.1 Name of the reporting organization ...................................................................................... Back cover
2.2  Products and/or services ................................................................................................................. 1, @
2.3  Operational structure  ........................................................................................................................ @
2.4  Headquarters location  ........................................................................................................................ 1
2.5  Countries in operation ................................................................................................................... 1, @
2.6  Nature of ownership ....................................................................................................................... 1, @
2.7  Markets served .................................................................................................................................... @
2.8  Scale of the organization ..................................................................................................................... @
2.9  Significant organizational changes ...................................................................................................... @
2.10  Awards received ............................................................................................................ 9, 14, 33, 35, @
3. Report Parameters
3.1  Reporting period ........................................................................................................ Inside front cover
3.2  Previous report ........................................................................................................... Inside front cover
3.3  Reporting cycle ........................................................................................................... Inside front cover
3.4  Contact point for questions ........................................................................................ Inside front cover
3.5  Content definition ..................................................................................................... Inside front cover
3.6  Boundary of the report .......................................................................................... Inside front cover, @
3.7  Limitations on the report’s scope ........................................................................... Inside front cover, @
3.8  JVs, subsidiaries, and outsourcing ...................................................................................................... @
3.9  Data measurement techniques ...........................................................................................................  @
3.10  Effects of information on re-statement ............................................................................................... @
3.11  Changes from previous reports ........................................................................................................... @
3.12  GRI Content Index ...................................................................................................................... 40-42
3.13  External assurance .............................................................................................................................. @
4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement
4.1  Governance structure  ........................................................................................................................ @
41 GRI Content Index4.2  Indication whether chairperson is also executive officer ...................................................................... @
4.3  Independent members at the board .................................................................................................... @
4.4  Mechanisms for shareholder/employee participation .......................................................................... @
4.5  Executive remuneration and performance .......................................................................................... @
4.6  Processes to avoid conflict of interest at the board .............................................................................. @
4.7  Process to determine board expertise on sustainability  ...................................................................... @
4.8  Mission and value statements ........................................................................... Inside back cover, 37, @
4.9  Procedures for board governance on management of economic,  
environmental, and social performance .............................................................................................. @
4.10  Processes for evaluation of the board’s economic, environmental, and social performance ................. @
4.11  Precautionary approach principle .................................................................................. 7-15, 24-26, @
4.12  External charters/principles ............................................................................................................ 8, @
4.13  Association memberships ............................................................................................................. 35, @
4.14  List of stakeholders ....................................................................................................................... 36, @
4.15  Stakeholder identification ............................................................................................................. 36, @
4.16  Approaches to stakeholder engagement ........................................................................... 3, 6, 36-39, @
4.17  Topics raised by stakeholders ........................................................................................................ 36, @
Economic Performance Indicators
Disclosure on management approach ..................................................................................................... 30-35, @
EC1  Direct economic value .................................................................................................................. 31, @
EC2  Financial implications due to climate change ..................................................................................... @
EC3  Benefit plan .................................................................................................................................. 26, @
EC4  Financial government assistance ......................................................................................................... @ 
EC5 Entry level wage ................................................................................................................................... @
EC6  Local suppliers .............................................................................................................................. 34, @
EC7  Local recruitment .................................................................................................................... 26-28, @ 
Environmental Performance Indicators
Disclosure on management approach ..................................................................................................... 16-23, @
EN1  Volume of materials used ............................................................................................................. 8-9, @
EN2  Recycled materials ................................................................................................................... 10-11, @
EN3  Direct primary energy consumption ............................................................................................ 18, @
EN4  Indirect primary energy consumption  ......................................................................................... 18, @ 
EN5  Energy conservation ...................................................................................................... 18-19, 21, 23, @
EN6 Initiatives for energy efficiency and renewable energy ...................................................... 18-19, 21, 23, @
EN8  Water withdrawal ......................................................................................................................... 22, @
EN9 Effect of water withdrawal ................................................................................................................... @
EN10 Water recycled ..................................................................................................................................... 22
EN16 Greenhouse gas emissions .................................................................................................................. 18
EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gases ............................................................................................... 18-20
EN19 Ozone-depleting substance emissions ................................................................................................. @
EN20 NOx, SOx and other air emissions ..................................................................................................... @
EN21 Water discharge .................................................................................................................................. @
EN22 Waste by disposal method ....................................................................................................... 21-22, @
EN23 Significant spills .................................................................................................................................. @
EN28 Non-compliance sanctions ................................................................................................................ 18GRI Content Index 42Social Performance: Labor Practices and Decent Work
Disclosure on management approach ..................................................................................................... 24-29, @
LA1 Breakdown of workforce  ................................................................................................................... @
LA2 Employee turnover  ...................................................................................................................... 26, @
LA3  Benefits to full-time employees ................................................................................................ 26-27, @
LA4  Employees with collective bargaining agreements ............................................................................... @
LA5  Minimum notice periods ................................................................................................................... @
LA6  Workforce in joint health committee ...................................................................................................... @
LA7  Occupational injuries and absenteeism .................................................................................... 24-26, @
LA8  T raining on serious diseases ................................................................................................................ @
LA9 Trade union agreements on health ......................................................................................................... @
LA10 T raining per employee .................................................................................................................. 27, @
LA11 Programs for lifelong learning ......................................................................................................... 27, @
LA12 Career development ........................................................................................................................ 27, @
LA13 Composition of governance bodies  ................................................................................................... @
LA14 Gender pay disparity  ......................................................................................................................... @
Social Performance: Human Rights
Disclosure on management approach ................................................................................................................ @
HR1 Human rights clauses in investment  .................................................................................................. @
HR2 Supplier screening on human rights ................................................................................................... @
HR4 Discrimination ................................................................................................................................... @
HR5 Association and collective bargaining ................................................................................................. @
HR6 Child labor ......................................................................................................................................... @
HR7 Forced labor ....................................................................................................................................... @
HR9 Violations of rights of indigenous peoples ............................................................................................... @
Social Performance: Society
Disclosure on management approach ......................................................................................... 16-23, 27-29, @
SO1  Impact on communities .............................................................................................. 16-23, 28-29, @
SO2  Corruption risks  ................................................................................................................................ @
SO3  Anti-corruption training ............................................................................................................... 27, @
SO4  Actions against corruption .................................................................................................................. @
SO5  Lobbying ............................................................................................................................................ @
SO6  Political donations ............................................................................................................................... @
SO7  Anti-competitive behavior .................................................................................................................... @
SO8 Regulatory non-compliance sanctions ................................................................................................ @
Social Performance: Product Responsibility
Disclosure on management approach ........................................................................................... 7-15, 36-39, @
PR1 Health and safety impacts along product life cycle  ............................................................................ @
PR2 Non-compliance with health and safety standards .................................................................................. @
PR3 Product information ........................................................................................................................... @
PR4  Non-compliance with product information standards ............................................................................ @
PR5  Customer satisfaction ................................................................................................................. 36-39, @
PR6  Communication programs ................................................................................................................. @
PR7  Non-compliance in marketing practices ................................................................................................. @
PR8  Complaints regarding customer privacy ................................................................................................. @
PR9  Product non-compliance .................................................................................................................... @Paper: This report is printed on Forest 
Stewardship Council-certified Mohawk Options paper, a process-chlorine-free, 100-percent post-consumer waste paper manufactured entirely using Green-e certified wind electricity and containing 100-percent post-consumer recycled fiber. This paper is certified by SmartWood for FSC standards.
The FSC trademark identifies paper 
made from forests that have been certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest  Stewardship Council. FSC 
trademark © 1996 Forest Stewardship Council A.C. xxxxxxxxxxx
Printing: Mossberg & Company Inc. 
has earned FSC Chain-of-Custody certification from the Rainforest Alliance’s SmartWood program. In addition, this printer uses environ-mentally friendly, soy-based inks.
Copyright © Ball Corporation 2008 Ball and
are trademarks of 
Ball Corporation 
Reg. U.S. Pat. & T m. Office.
www.ball.comCore Purpose
Ball Corporation is in business to add value to all of its stakeholders, 
whether it is providing quality products and services to customers, an attractive return on investment to shareholders, a meaningful work life for employees or a contribution of time, effort and resources 
to our communities as we strive to make Ball a more successful 
and sustainable enterprise. In all of our interactions, we ask how we can get better – how we can make it better, be better and do better, for our own good and the good of those who have a stake in our success.
Core Values
Integrity Our reputation for integrity is one of our most important 
assets. We will not compromise our integrity or risk damage to our reputation in return for financial gain or for any reason.
Respect We respect our employees, our customers, our 
suppliers, our shareholders – indeed, all of our stakeholders. In all of our dealings we strive to show that  respect and to treat people 
with dignity.
Motivation We have a strong desire to be successful and to be 
measured against the best.
Flexibility We are willing to challenge our own assumptions and 
adapt to changing circumstances  for the long-term good of the 
corporation.
Innovation We strive to be creative and innovative in  our products, 
our processes and the way we conduct business.
Teamwork We operate as a team. Everyone has his or her job, but 
it takes all of us working together for the company to succeed.www.ball.com
Ball Corporation
10 Longs Peak DriveBroomfield, CO 80021 © Ball Corporation June 2008
