BALL  CORPORATION 2018 Sustainability ReportCONTENTS
CONTACTREPORTING
ASSESSMENTSTABLE OF ABOUT OUR
EXTERNALCEO PERSPECTIVE 01
BALL OVERVIEW 02
CIRCULAR ECONOMY 04
CLIMATE CHANGE 14
WATER STEWARDSHIP 22
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING 28
SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT  34
DATA  36This is Ball Corporation’s sixth biennial sustainability report, covering calendar years 2016 and 2017. 
It complements our financial reporting and covers the sustainability topics identified by Ball and our 
stakeholders as most material to our company. Customers, investors, employees and suppliers are  
the primary audience for our reporting.
Unless otherwise stated, we are reporting sustainability metrics globally covering facilities where 
Ball has operational control, which includes owned and leased manufacturing facilities, major 
administrative offices, external warehouses, and research and development facilities. Operations  
that are outside of these criteria, such as joint venture locations where Ball does not have full  
authority to introduce and implement its operating policies, are not included in our reporting.
On June 30, 2016, Ball announced the completion of its acquisition of Rexam PLC and required 
divestitures, which resulted in significant changes to the company’s manufacturing footprint.  
To ensure information and comparisons are reliable and meaningful over time, and to allow  
stakeholders to perform consistent trend analyses of our sustainability performance over multiple 
years, all 2010-2017 sustainability data included in our sustainability reporting is reflective of 
Ball’s company footprint post-close of the Rexam acquisition. In addition to reporting Ball’s latest 
environmental performance data online, Ball annually updates historical environmental performance 
data as necessary if updated emission factors or more accurate activity data become available. 
An external assurance statement by ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) and  
further details on reporting principles, boundaries and data normalization are available on our  
website. Our reporting was developed in accordance with the Core level of the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) Standards. A detailed GRI Content Index appears online.Ball’s sustainability management and performance 
have again been recognized by external experts.
We welcome your comments and questions on our sustainability efforts.  Please direct them to 
sustainability@ball.com.
More details on our sustainability performance, best practices and updates  on our progress are available at
 www.ball.com/sustainability.Throughout the online version of this report, click this symbol  for additional web content.
CEO PERSPECTIVE
John A. Hayes
Chairman, President  
& Chief  Executive OfficerWhen we closed on the Rexam acquisition  
in 2016, we pledged to leverage our  
larger  scale to be more efficient and  
effective and to set new  standards in  
sustainable growth. As the market leader,  
we also committed to making Ball cans  
the most sustainable package in the  
supply  chain and, since then, have  
ramped up our  efforts toward that  
goal in a meaningful way.
I am often asked why  we run a packaging  
and an aerospace business and how  they  
are connected. Through the sustainability  
lens, this report provides one powerful  
answer. Many  of the innovative space  
systems that Ball Aerospace builds  
support actionable environmental  
intelligence, and allow  scientists and  
other  stakeholders to better  understand  
and address key  sustainability  challenges,  
such as the circular  economy, climate  
change, water  stewardship and  
responsible sourcing. Our  packaging  
businesses contribute innovative and  
sustainable packaging solutions, such  
as our  next generation STARcan and  
our ReAL® aerosol technology, that  
help address these challenges and  
help our  customers reduce their  
product carbon footprints.Packaging is critical to delivering consumer  
products safely, conveniently  and in good  
condition, and it preserves and protects  
beverage, aerosol and other  products as  they move through supply  chains. From  
a circular  perspective, cans truly  are the  
most sustainable package—economically  
and environmentally—relative to glass,  
plastic and other  substrates. They  are 
infinitely  recyclable, easily  collected
 and  
sorted, and are the package with by  far 
the highest economic value in the recycling  
stream. The global recycling rate for  
aluminum beverage cans is 69 percent  
and we know  that there is still room for  
improvement. That is why  we engage  
with customers, suppliers and other  
partners around the world to establish  
a more efficient collection and recycling  
infrastructure, and to educate consumers  
on why  every  can counts as well as the  
many  benefits of  metal packaging recycling.
We are also persistent in improving our  
operational sustainability  performance  
and throughout this report highlight the  
ways in which we further  increased energy  
and water  efficiencies, decreased our  
carbon intensity  and optimized waste  
management during the  reporting period.
Thank  you to all of  our employees,  
customers, suppliers and partners who  
have contributed to our  sustainability  
achievements so far. We look  forward to  
future progress toward making the can the  
most sustainable package and to delivering  
insightful environmental intelligence that will  
help ensure a successful future for  all of  us.
CEO  PERSPECTIVE1956
3,010
$991
9
U.S.SINCE
EMPLOYEES  (YEAR-END 2017)
2017  NET  SALES  ($ IN MILLIONS)
LOCATIONS
ACTIVE  INBALL  
OVERVIEWAEROSPACE
BALL AEROSPACE IS A LEADER IN THE  
DESIGN, DEVELOPMENT AND MANUFACTURE  
OF INNOVATIVE AEROSPACE SYSTEMS FOR  
CIVIL, COMMERCIAL AND NATIONAL CYBER  
SECURITY AEROSPACE MARKETS.
CAPABILITIES
INSTRUMENTS  & SENSORS
TECHNOLOGIES  & COMPONENTS
SPACECRAFT  & SPACE  SCIENCE
ELECTRONIC  WARFARE
DATA  ANALYTICS/  EXPLOITATION
ENGINEERING  SERVICES
TESTING1880
18,300
3$10,983
90
NORTH &  
CENTRAL AMERICA
SOUTH AMERICAEUROPEASIAMIDDLE EASTAFRICAFOUNDED
EMPLOYEES
LINES  OF BUSINESS
2017  NET  SALES  ($ IN MILLIONS)
MANUFACTURING
LOCATIONS  (YEAR-END 2017)
ACTIVE  IN
WE KNOW... WHO WE ARE.TEN
BALL  CORPORATIONGLOBAL BEVERAGE PACKAGING
AEROSOL PACKAGINGCIRCULAR  
ECONOMY
CLIMATE
CHANGE
WATER  
STEWARDSHIP
RESPONSIBLE  
SOURCINGBALL IS THE WORLD’S LARGEST BEVERAGE CAN MAKER, SUPPLYING INNOVATIVE SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING  
SOLUTIONS TO CUSTOMERS AROUND THE GLOBE.
BALL IS THE WORLD’S LARGEST ALUMINUM SLUG AND IMPACT EXTRUDED AEROSOL CAN MANUFACTURER.
UNTIL JULY 31, 2018, THE COMPANY ALSO MANUFACTURED TINPLATE FOOD AND AEROSOL CANS IN THE U.S.The data  captured  through  Ball-built  
instruments  and  satellites  enables  an 
enhanced  scientific  understanding  of 
major  sustainability  challenges,  allowing  
governments,  industry  and  other  
stakeholders  to effectively  address  
these  challenges.
Ball’s  packaging  businesses  face  
four major  sustainability  challenges,  
and are working  on effective  and  
innovative  solutions  to turn  them  
into business  opportunities.CAPABILITIES
BEVERAGE  CANS
BEVERAGE  ENDS
ALUMINUM  BOTTLESSINCE  
1969
EMPLOYEES  (YEAR-END  2017)   
12,260
2017  NET  SALES  ($ IN MILLIONS)  
$8,854
MANUFACTURING  
LOCATIONS  (YEAR-END  2017) 
69CANS  PRODUCED  (2017)  
100+ BILLION
ACTIVE  IN 
  NORTH &   
CENTRAL AMERICA
  SOUTH AMERICA  
  EUROPE
  ASIA, MIDDLE EAST, AFRICA
CAPABILITIES
AEROSOL  CANS
FOOD  CANS  & ENDSSLUGSSINCE  
1988
EMPLOYEES  (YEAR-END  2017)   
2,705
2017  NET  SALES  ($ IN MILLIONS)  
$1,138
MANUFACTURING  
LOCATIONS  (YEAR-END  2017) 
19CANS  PRODUCED  (2017)  
4.6 BILLION
ACTIVE  IN 
  NORTH &   
CENTRAL AMERICA
  SOUTH AMERICA  
  EUROPE
  ASIA
WHERE WE ARE GOING. WHAT IS IMPORTANT.PAGE 04
PAGE 14
PAGE 22
PAGE 28
BALL  OVERVIEWIn November  2017, Ball Aerospace was selected as the prime  
contractor  by the U.S. Air  Force to deliver  the next-generation  
operational environmental satellite system, Weather  System   
Follow-On-Microwave (WSF-M). Ball is responsible for  developing  
and integrating the entire microwave system, which includes the  
microwave instrument, spacecraft and system software.  
This mission will improve weather  forecasting over  maritime   
regions by  taking global measurements of  the atmosphere   
and ocean surface. The system is designed to monitor  ocean   
surface vector  winds, tropical cyclone intensity  and low  Earth   
orbit energetic charged particles.
Measurement of  ocean surface wind speed and wind direction   
will help ocean models predict ocean surface currents. The   
system’s passive microwave radiometer  will also provide data   CIRCULAR ECONOMY
on sea surface temperature, another  important element   
in determining ocean circulation. The National Oceanic and  
Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) will use this data in   
its models.  
NOAA’s Marine Debris Program and scientists around the world  
continue to research and monitor  marine debris and its impacts,  
and have found that many  different ocean features can cause   
debris accumulation. BALL AEROSPACE
INNOVATIVE  SPACE  SYSTEMS  THAT  SUPPORT  ACTIONABLE  ENVIRONMENTAL  INTELLIGENCE
BALL  CORPORATIONA PLASTIC  OCEAN
An estimated mere 5 percent of  plastics are recycled effectively  around the world,  
while 40 percent end up in landfills and a third in fragile ecosystems such as the  
world’s oceans.  
Half of the world’s plastic ocean waste collects in five garbage patches. They  do 
not only  consist of  a layer  of trash that floats at the surface, but are rather  like soup  
containing many  minuscule suspended particles. In 2014, scientists determined that  
5.25 trillion particles of  “plastic smog”  surface pollution, weighing 269,000 tons,  
pollute our  oceans worldwide. While larger  items can threaten sea life such as turtles  
and seals, which mistake plastic waste for  food, microplastics can be digested by  fish 
and end up in the human food chain. The United  Nations Environment Programme  
conservatively  estimated the economic costs of  these externalities of  plastic   
packaging at $40 billion—exceeding the plastic packaging industry’s profit pool.
SHIFTING  PARADIGMS
The majority  of corporate product stewardship strategies center  around resource  
efficiency, particularly  in terms of  lightweighting, sustainably  produced materials,  
recyclability  and product carbon footprints. Metal packaging performs well in these  
categories. For  example, beverage cans are fully  recyclable and the weight of   
standard cans was reduced by  up to 40 percent over  the last 25 years.The North Pacific Subtropical  
Convergence Zone concentrates   
food sources for  many  species, but   
also marine debris that comes ashore   
on the Northwestern Hawaiian Islands.  
The National Oceanic and Atmospheric  
Administration (NOAA) and the Navy  
will use this data in their  ocean and  
atmospheric prediction systems.
CIRCULAR  ECONOMYHowever, driven by  a more informed  
and robust discussion around systemic  
sustainability  challenges and holistic  
product design, product stewardship  
must move more quickly  from small  
incremental changes on some isolated  
issues to creating a circular  economy.  
Circularity  is about retaining material  
value and complexity  as much as possible  
and for  as long as possible—ideally  without  
any degradation. Instead of  focusing on  
making products as cheap as possible  
and a little less harmful, products must be  
designed so that they  are recycled easily  
and infinitely. In a truly  circular  economy,  
product production costs, as well as all  
product life cycle-related costs, should  
be considered.  
CIRCULARITY  BY DESIGN
The old take, make, waste paradigm  
has created products  that are extremely  
cheap to produce yet very  expensive to  
be recycled. Products made of  only  one  
material or  designed for  easy  disassembly,  
do not require complex processing  
before the materials are recycled.  
Recyclability  claims suggest that it is a  
great achievement when a product is  recyclable. The truth is that recyclability  
is only  an achievement when a product is  
consistently  and infinitely  recycled and the  
material can be kept in the loop without  
loss in material quality.
For many  products, technical capabilities  
are insufficient to fully  close the material  
loop and it is cheaper  to use primary  
instead of  recycled materials. Additionally,  
significant losses in material quality  and  
quantity  still exist even in some established  
recycling processes. Materials that lose  
some of  their  inherent properties when  
recycled prohibit a truly  circular  economy.
With permanent materials such as metals,  
the material’s inherent properties do not  
change during use or  when repeatedly  
recycled into new  products. Recycling  
them does not necessarily  require the  
addition of  primary  material or  other  
additives to enable the basic material  
function and properties.A circular  economy  strives to create  
favorable conditions for  economically  
viable recycling, rather  than developing  
lowest cost products that are not  
recycled and require expensive recycling  THE FACT THAT BEVERAGE  
CANS HAVE THE HIGHEST  
REAL RECYCLING RATE OF  
ALL BEVERAGE PACKAGING  
SUBSTRATES IS A GREAT  
ACHIEVEMENT AND  
REINFORCES THAT WE  
CORRECTLY PICKED  THE  
RIGHT SUBSTRATE WHEN  
WE FIRST INTRODUCED  
RED BULL BACK IN 1987.
Full statement available online WERNER DEPAULY
Global Head of Procurement and Sustainability
Red Bull
BALL  CORPORATIONtechnologies to be recovered. Instead 
of trying to develop end-of-the-pipe solutions, businesses must invest in creating truly circular products in the  
first place. During product design, the following questions should be answered:
 
  Are all materials used in a product 
recyclable or only some?
   Is a material actually recycled or  
only collected for recycling then  
sent to landfill?
    Can the material be recycled infinitely or is it only recyclable once or twice before it becomes waste?
 
  Is a product recyclable everywhere  
or only in a laboratory set-up?
    Is all of the input material available  
as recycled output or is a significant portion of the material lost  
during recycling?
 
  Is a product recycled into something of similar value or is it downcycled into a product of less value that might not be recycled again?
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE CRITERIA
Energy  & Climate By-Products & Waste Land Use & Biodiversity
Human Rights Labor Rights Business IntegrityWater Safety
Transparency
CIRCULAR ECONOMYlarger. For example, can manufacturing 
makes up approximately one-fourth of an aluminum beverage can’s energy consumption throughout its life. Most energy consumption and associated greenhouse gas emissions occur during metal production, which our suppliers continue to make more efficient.  
For example:
 
  The carbon intensity of primary 
aluminum production in Europe decreased by 21 percent between  
2010 and 2015
 
  The energy needed to produce a metric ton of aluminum in the U.S.  
and Canada declined 26 percent between 1995 and 2010LIFE CYCLE THINKING
Metal cans are produced using abundant materials. The earth’s crust consists of approximately 8 percent aluminum. It is  
the third most common element, while  
iron is the fourth most plentiful element, and metals have been recycled for as  
long as they have been produced. In fact, nearly 75 percent of all aluminum and  
80 to 90 percent of all steel ever  
produced is still in use today.
Packaging plays a critical role in  
delivering products to consumers 
safely, conveniently and in perfect condition. It protects and preserves food, beverages and other products as they move through supply chains. At Ball, we evaluate products through a variety of lenses, including consumer benefits, carbon footprints, costs and the impact on the recycling process. Life cycle thinking demands that our packaging be considered in conjunction with the products and embedded resources it protects.
While we continue to minimize the 
sustainability impacts of our operations, those of our supply chain are significantly Recycling reduces the energy needed for primary metal production by 95 percent  
for aluminum and 74 percent for steel,  
and cuts GHG emissions accordingly.  
Some organizations promote recycled content as the solution for circularity. However, a product with high recycled content that is not recycled is still an example of a linear economy. For a substrate like plastic with low economic scrap value, and where virgin material is cheaper and easier to use than recycled, introducing mandates on recycled content could create the required end-market for recovered plastic.
For metals where recycling is economically 
viable, there is no need to incentivize recycled content through legislation or other mandates—the economics of the material already drive recycling. Additionally, by realizing the economic benefits, environmental savings are achieved simultaneously. No matter the application for which recycled metal is used, metal recycling reduces the need for an equal amount of more energy-intensive  
virgin metal. 
BALL CORPORATIONECONOMICS  OF RECYCLING
While the materials used in certain  
products have low, and in some instances  
no, value at the end of  their  useful life,  
metals have high economic value. At the  
end of  2017, for  example, aluminum can  
scrap from curbside collection in  
California was worth eight times more  
than PET, or  four  times as much on a  
per container  basis (with glass having  
no economic value).
While metal packaging represents a  
small share of  all household recyclables,  
it is a significant income for  recyclers. In  
the U.S., for  example, aluminum packaging  
is estimated to be about 1 percent of  the 
recyclable waste stream of  households  
by weight while representing 17 percent  
of the value. Metals are  subsidizing  
packaging recycling systems, in particular  
the collection and recycling of  materials  
with little or  no economic value.
In many  parts of  the world, sorting  
technologies and their  deployment did not  
keep up with the pace of  change of  the 
recycling mix, increased contamination and  
municipal recycling system modifications,  which is one reason why  organizations  
involved in sorting and recycling are facing  
economic constraints today. Now  is the  
time to discuss what is actually  recyclable,  
and what we as society  and governments  
can afford to recycle.
TOWARD  100%  
RECYCLING  RATES
A recent study  confirmed that beverage  
cans have, by  far, the highest global  
recycling rate of  all common beverage  
packaging substrates (69 percent).  
Beverage can recycling  rates are at or  
above 90 percent in several developed  
markets such as Belgium and Germany,  
as well as in developing markets, such  
as Brazil, where no formal packaging  
collection and recycling schemes yet exist.We believe that society  and industry  at 
large should aim for  recycling rates close  
to 100 percent for  all products. With that  
goal in mind, all involved parties should  
collectively  solve product design issues,  
implement effective circular  economy  
policies, and enhance collection and  
recycling systems.BUSINESSES ARE STARTING  
TO DEVELOP AMBITIOUS  
SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS  
AROUND MATERIALS  
MANAGEMENT—AND WITH  
THEIR INNATE INNOVATION  
AND RESOURCEFULNESS,  
THERE IS A NEW MOMENTUM  
IN DEVELOPING SOLUTIONS.  
WE NEED TO DO MORE,  
HOWEVER, TO  TURN THIS  
MOMENTUM INTO TANGIBLE,  
ON-THE-GROUND RESULTS.
ERIN SIMON
Director, Sustainability R&D
WWF
Full statement available online 
CIRCULAR  ECONOMYALUMINUM BEVERAGE CAN RECYCLING RATES IN MAJOR MARKETS (latest available):NORTH & CENTRAL AMERICA SOUTH AMERICA
The Recycling Partnership’s mission is to educate, inspire and empower  
stakeholders to strategically  strengthen recycling in the U.S. Its broad  
spectrum of  allied partners focus on driving quantity  in the recycled  
materials stream. The partnership has reached more than 29 million  
households since 2014, supported more than 583 communities,  
delivered more than 400,000 new  recycling carts, achieved   
10-point reductions in targeted contamination rates, and diverted  
68,000 additional tons of  recycled materials. This equates to avoiding  
164,000 metric tons of  GHG emissions, while adding jobs in the respective  
regions and building a pipeline of  recovered materials for  various industries.
In 2017, The Recycling Partnership worked with the City  of Denver, which is close to Ball’s  
headquarters. Denver’s residential  recycling program is already  outperforming the national  
average in terms of  quality  of material collected, but there is more material to be recovered.   
The goal of  the three-month pilot was to find the best way  to increase the amount of  recyclables  
that residents put in their  recycling carts, starting with a focus on aluminum and steel cans. An  
education program for  4,000 pilot households was implemented and on-the-ground recycling  
experts tagged trash carts with an information card that instructed residents to put cans in their  
recycling carts. Residents also received the message through mailers, signs and social media.  
The pilot results were tremendous—the City  of Denver  saw  a 25 percent increase in can recycling.  
As a result, Ball and other  can makers are funding the  city-wide roll-out (172,000 households)   
of the campaign in 2018, which will again include capture rate studies to quantify  the impacts   
of the can-specific intervention. If  the entire city  could achieve the same results, an additional   
225 metric tons of  used beverage cans would be recovered, saving approximately  1,200 metric  
tons of  greenhouse gas emissions.  One particular  focus area for  Ball is   
promoting the importance of   
waste pickers (catadores) as  
environmental agents in Brazil.  
That is why  we support their  
development through various  
initiatives. For  example, the   
Re-Circus program focuses   
on promoting environmental  
awareness and sustainability  through  
socio-cultural activities. In addition to attractions including  
theatre performances, clowns and jugglers, lectures,  
storytelling and various workshops, the event also includes  
collection points for  recyclables that focus on leveraging   
waste sorting awareness.  
In 2017, Ball organized two Re-Circus events, one in Recife   
and one in Salvador, reaching 7,200 people. During the   
event, Ball also supported the “Pimp my  Cart”-initiative,   
refurbishing 85 waste pickers’  carts and  providing them   
with personal protective equipment kits to improve health   
and safety  conditions. 
Further  recycling projects supported by  Ball described online   2017  COLLECTION  & RECYCLING  PROJECT  HIGHLIGHTS
BALL  CORPORATIONALUMINUM BEVERAGE CAN RECYCLING RATES IN MAJOR MARKETS (latest available):EUROPE AFRICA, MIDDLE EAST & ASIA
Every  Can Counts (ECC) is working to encourage people to recycle beverage  
cans they  use when they  are away  from home—for  example, at work  and  
other  “on the go”  locations. ECC campaigns associate fun activities with  
can recycling to interact with consumers, festivals goers and the ones  
who enjoy  life in public spaces and want to make that extra sorting  
effort to save energy  and valuable materials.  
Originally  developed in the U.K. to target the approximately  30 percent  
of drinks cans used outside the home, ECC has successfully  established  
itself  as the umbrella brand for  promoting beverage can recycling away  
from home, with programs running in 14 countries by  early  2018, from Austria   
to Benelux, Ireland, Scotland,  Greece and Serbia. Exemplary  success stories from 2017 include:
   In Spain, Cada Lata Cuenta took  part in urban culture festivals and a paragliding race   
across the Pyrenees, went to colorful Mediterranean beaches and in the trendy  design   
street markets of  Madrid. Among other  events, ECC launched Pixelata 2.0 during the  
Farcama festival in October  2017; where visitors became street artists, sprayed the bottom  
of cans consumed at the festival and created a giant piece of  pixel art made of  2,000 cans.  
   In the U.K., 2,454 sites had signed up for  ECC in early  2018, creating more than 13,630 can  
collection points. ECC and Drops Cycling Team teamed up at cycling races during the 2017   
season. By  racing against friends around an infinite recycling loop track, cycling enthusiasts   
were engaged and encouraged to recycle more.  
    Since its inception in 2010, 2,217 participating sites across France and promotional activities  
at 747 events contributed to Chaque Canette Compte’s success in reaching 14 million people  
and collecting 57 million cans that were consumed away  from home. In the United Arab Emirates, Ball  
partners with the green non-
governmental organization  
Emirates Environmental Group  
(EEG). In 2017, Ball became an  
official sponsor  for EEG’s Can  
Collection Drive. Under  the motto  
“Small Actions, Big Impact,”  Ball  
employees volunteered to join the  
EEG’s Can Collection Day  in February  and  
October  and supported a number  of can collection activities.
Having collected almost 10 metric tons of  aluminum cans in  
2017, and more than 300 tons since the program launch in  
1997, Ball and EEG plan to continue their  close collaboration  
by organizing new  can recycling campaigns and awareness  
raising sessions in schools throughout 2018. The partners  
have also kicked off  a waste recycling awareness campaign  
across selected schools in the  Emirates and placed beverage  
can recycling bins on their  grounds.  
CIRCULAR  ECONOMYimportant role in bringing this vision  
to life. We have considered ourselves  
ambassadors for  our products for   
many  years. For  example, through  
employee donations and grants by   
the Ball Foundation, we provided more  
than $550,000 to recycling-related  
projects around the world in 2017. In  
addition, U.S. employees logged more   
than 400 hours of  volunteer  time for  
cleanups and educational programs.
In 2017, we rolled out a Ball-wide  
campaign called “Live the Can Life”  to 
inspire employees to take additional steps  
and proactively  promote the economic,  
environmental and social benefits of  cans.  
The campaign includes:
   Key facts to help our  employees talk  
with family  and friends about the  
can’s incredible sustainability  story
   Education and advocacy  information  
about recycling in every  region where  
we operate
   Ways our  employees can get   
involved in promoting can use   
and can recyclingWe support policies which acknowledge  
that different substrates and combinations  
provide different enablers for  a circular  
economy  in terms of  economic value,  
recyclability, avoidance of  downcycling and  
real recycling rates. Products that perform  
well in this regard already  contribute to  
the economic health of  regional recycling  
systems. Products that do not yet qualify  
as circular  economy  enablers should  
contribute their  fair share to make the  
system equitable and sustainable.All stakeholders involved in packaging  
collection and recycling, including material  
and packaging suppliers, consumer  
brands, local governments, waste haulers  
and recyclers, have a specific interest  
and, therefore, a role in helping improve
 
recycling rates. That is why  we utilize  
multi-stakeholder  partnerships to enhance  
packaging collection and recycling. 
18,300 EMPLOYEES   
LIVING  THE  CAN  LIFE
On our  journey  to position the can as   
the most sustainable package in the   
beverage, food and aerosol supply   
chains, every  Ball employee plays an  
BALL  CORPORATIONOne aspect of Live the Can Life is 
converting all Ball facilities and events into “can zones,” welcoming single-serve aluminum and steel cans and avoiding other substrates at our facilities or Ball-sponsored events.
In early 2018, we also launched the Ball 
Recycling Can Challenge. By mobilizing our employee base at all of our facilities around the world and engaging them in local can recycling initiatives, we strive to increase recycling rates, raise awareness about the infinite recyclability of metal packaging and create a meaningful impact in the communities where we operate.
Through this competition, our facilities  
can gain financial support for their internal  
and external can recycling programs.  
By reaching out to, and working with, local 
community organizations and schools to promote recycling, and focusing efforts  
on capturing additional cans that would otherwise not have been collected, we  
create net economic, environmental and  
social gains.OPTIMIZING WASTE STREAMS  
IN OUR PLANTS
Circularity also plays an important role in our manufacturing processes. Material use and waste volumes are important yardsticks in evaluating the efficiency of our processes. Reducing spoilage and recycling all metal production scrap are the most obvious ways that Ball can conserve resources and generate additional revenue. We focus on systematically reducing the amount of waste generated, increasing recycling rates and eliminating waste sent to landfills.
All of the metal scrap generated in  
our manufacturing is sent back to  
our suppliers and remelted so it can  
be reused in new metal applications.  
The remaining waste streams totaled 
72,683 metric tons globally in 2017,  
4 percent less than the total in 2016  
and 17 percent less than in 2016 when compared per EVA® dollar generated. We continue to educate our employees about the benefits of recycling, provide a convenient recycling infrastructure in our facilities and cultivate a conservation mindset. While 63 percent of the total waste generated was reused or  
recycled in 2017, only 13 percent  
was sent to landfills. Thirty-nine of  
our 88 packaging manufacturing  
plants worldwide achieved zero waste  
to landfill status by year-end 2017. 
CIRCULAR ECONOMYClimate change is a top concern around the world, and  
understanding weather  and environmental impacts is critical. Ball  
Aerospace helps monitor  key atmospheric constituents such as ash,  
smoke and aerosols with long-term effects to life on Earth, including  
the stratospheric ozone layer, which acts as a shield that protects us  
from the sun’s harmful radiation.
Ball supports the U.S. government’s obligation to monitor  
stratospheric ozone depletion under  the 1987 Montreal Protocol—an  
international agreement to ensure there are no gaps in the protective  
layer  of ozone that surrounds the Earth—with its Ozone Mapping  
and Profiler  Suite (OMPS). This instrument measures how  ozone  
concentration varies with altitude, while helping forecasters predict  
extreme wind events, track  the migration of  smoke, pollution, volcanic  
ash and meteor  debris, and helps scientists better  understand our  
dynamic planet.
CLIMATE CHANGE
BALL AEROSPACE
INNOVATIVE  SPACE  SYSTEMS  THAT  SUPPORT  ACTIONABLE  ENVIRONMENTAL  INTELLIGENCE
Scientists know  that stratospheric ozone has some effect on the  
world’s climate, and the world’s climate affects ozone distribution  
and concentration. However, these interactions are not well  
understood because the long-term data record of  stratospheric  
ozone is relatively  short, on a climate scale. That is why  space-based  
measurements of  ozone, from systems like OMPS, are so critical  
to continuing the global data record of  ozone to help us better  
understand the processes that impact our  climate. 
BALL  CORPORATIONOVERVIEW  OF BALL’S  CARBON  FOOTPRINT
In 2017, Ball emitted 1.4 million metric tons of   greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions—  
directly  by burning fossil fuels such as natural gas and diesel on site (Scope 1),   
and indirectly  by consuming purchased electricity, heat or  steam generated off   
site (Scope 2). Compared to 2016, Ball reduced the absolute amount of  these   
GHG emissions by  2 percent.
In addition, we caused 13.2 million metric tons of  indirect GHG emissions in 2017  
(Scope 3). These emissions occurred in our  value chain, including both upstream and  
downstream, from sources not owned or  directly  controlled by  Ball, but related to our  
activities. Eighty-five percent of  these emissions stem from the metals we purchased.
Ensuring our  stakeholders understand our  commitments and how  we contribute  
to our  customers’  sustainability  targets requires a high level of  transparency  of our 
sustainability  performance, including organizational and product carbon footprints.  
To ensure the accuracy  and reliability  of our data, we engaged ERM Certification and  
Verification Services to provide limited assurance in relation to our  2017 GHG emissions  
(Scope 1, 2 and 3). 
The smoke from December  2017 wild  
fires in Southern California impacted   
the west coast of  the U.S. and Canada.  
The OMPS instrument captures the  
aerosol index, showing concentrations   
of atmospheric constituents, such as  
smoke and ash, making its way  north.GHG EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1,2&3):TOTAL  2017
14.6 MILLION TONS C0 2e
1  Covers capital goods, fuel- and energy-related activities (not in scope 1+2), waste from our  sites, processing of  
sold products, investments; end-of-life treatment of  our products is accounted for  under  metals.
CLIMATE  CHANGETRANSITIONING TO 
A LOW CARBON ECONOMY
For 15 years, Ball has utilized a Carbon 
Intensity Index (CII) that is calculated based on the total GHG emissions (Scope 1 and 2) of each business in which we operate, normalized by a denominator specific to each business. The normalization factor is a weighted approach based on the differing intensities of production/sales in the base year. It accounts for overall production changes over the goal period, and for changes in production mix between the various business segments.
In the past, we committed to 10- and 
5-year CII reduction targets (2002-2012 and 2010-2015), which were achieved on or ahead of time (2010, 2015). At the end of 2017, Ball had achieved a 23 percent reduction in our CII from a 2010 baseline, averaging a 3 percent reduction per year (see page 36 for detailed data). 
To help tackle climate change, Ball set a 
bold new science-based greenhouse gas emission reduction target, in line with the level of decarbonization required to keep the average global temperature increase below 2 degrees Celsius compared to pre-industrial temperatures:  By 2030, we will reduce our 
absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions by 27 percent  against 
a 2017 baseline. Per million dollars 
of value added, this equates to a 
56 percent  reduction of our carbon 
intensity over the same period.
  In addition, Ball strives to reduce GHG 
emissions across the value chain—from 
mining, refining, smelting, casting and 
rolling, to Ball’s manufacturing, logistics, 
and end-of-life recycling—per can 
produced by 25 percent  over the 
same period. 
At the time of this report’s publication, 
we were in the process of submitting our target for approval by the Science Based Targets initiative. 
We follow a three-pronged approach 
to achieve our targets:
 
  Increase efficiency: save energy 
and materials
  Grow renewables: purchase 
renewable energy
  Cut embedded carbon: work 
with partners to reduce 
upstream impactsTOGETHER WITH BALL, THE 
WORLD’S LEADING BEVERAGE 
CAN MANUFACTURER AND 
STRATEGIC GLOBAL SUPPLIER 
TO AB INBEV, WE WILL WORK 
CLOSELY TO FURTHER INCREASE 
RECYCLING RATES FOR USED 
BEVERAGE CANS AROUND THE WORLD, PURSUE ACCELERATED 
CAN LIGHT-WEIGHTING, AND 
SEEK EFFICIENCIES IN LOGISTICS 
AND PRODUCTION THROUGHOUT 
OUR JOINT VALUE CHAINS.
TONY MILIKIN
Chief Procurement and Sustainability Ofﬁ  cer
Anheuser-Busch InBev
Full statement available online  
BALL CORPORATIONTo successfully transition to a low carbon 
economy, position cans as the most sustainable package and achieve our  
Drive for 10 vision, we must provide an inclusive workplace and promote diversity to foster creativity and innovation. With different perspectives come different solutions to help our customers and  
our business succeed.
SMART ENERGY USE
By using energy more efficiently, we reduce our operating costs and GHG emissions. Every Ball plant commits to annual energy goals supported by detailed action plans. Real-time energy information systems provide higher visibility into our operations at the equipment level so we can better understand, manage, report on and benchmark the performance of energy-consuming processes. At year-end 2017, 22 plants had comprehensive energy monitoring systems in place and we plan to add them in all global beverage plants by 2021.
To leverage our engineering talent around 
the world, our Global Beverage Packaging business created a global engineering organization in 2017. The new team is developing a platform and processes to identify and exchange best practices focused on global operational metrics  
and achieving our sustainability goals.
Our Global Beverage Packaging business 
accounted for 85 percent of our total energy consumption of 4.5 million megawatt hours in 2017. Measured per unit of production, energy efficiency in this business has improved 3 percent since 2015 (see page 36 for detailed data). Opposing trends such as increasing varieties of can sizes, shapes and labels, resulting shorter production runs, line or plant curtailments, and new line startups, can offset progress toward our energy efficiency goals. To manage these challenges effectively, we continuously invest in our businesses. In 2016/2017,  
we invested $11 million in energy efficiency measures. These projects are expected to deliver electricity savings of approximately 34 million kilowatt hours, and natural  
gas savings of 4 million kilowatt hours,  
resulting in 9,900 metric tons less of  
GHG emissions. 
From employee engagement to machinery 
and equipment, heating and cooling, heat recovery, lighting and energy management, we focus on various energy-saving opportunities. The majority of our energy consumption comes from air compressors and ovens in our plants. In a beverage can plant, air compressors consume between 20 and 30 percent of the electricity.  
We conduct audits of our compressed air systems and optimize performance by reducing system pressure, minimizing wasteful air use and leaks, and decreasing manufacturing equipment demand. We continued to install more efficient compressors and connected additional equipment to low-pressure systems during the reporting period. At the end of 2017, 55 percent of our beverage can plants operated dual-air systems that supply equipment with either high- or low-pressure air. Compared to traditional systems that rely only on high pressure, low pressure compressed air is 22 percent more energy efficient than high pressure air, and also results in less energy loss through artificial demand.
Within our operations, ovens are used  
to evaporate water from cans after being 
washed and to cure external and internal coatings. Ovens account for up to  
75 percent of a beverage can plant’s natural gas usage and up to 20 percent  
of its electricity usage. Through oven audits, low-cost optimization projects,  
and increased employee awareness of oven energy use and associated costs, we have realized natural gas efficiency gains 
CLIMATE CHANGEwe realize annual electricity savings  
of approximately 5 million kilowatt  
hours, equivalent to 890 metric tons  
of GHG emissions.
STAR: NEXT GENERATION CANS
Weight optimization of our cans contributes 
significantly to reducing our carbon footprint. The less metal we use per container, the smaller the amount of embedded carbon. We intend to make  
the lightest possible metal containers while meeting our customers’ performance requirements. Weight optimization is also a key contributor to our customers’ value chain carbon footprint reduction efforts.
Weight optimization saves significant 
metal, costs, energy and emissions when multiplied by the more than 100 billion cans Ball produces each year. Through lightweighting, we reduced aluminum use in our beverage and aluminum aerosol packaging businesses by 7,700 metric  
tons in 2017, which equates to saving  
58,000 metric tons of GHG emissions,  
or the emissions of 12,400 U.S. passenger vehicles per year.
In 2017, we launched STARcan, a next 
generation beverage can, which leverages technology and our weight optimization know-how. Initially available in Europe  
on 33- and 50-centiliter cans, STARcan  is Ball’s most metal-efficient can.  
Together with our customers we can jointly drive towards a new standard of performance and the achievement of key sustainability objectives. If we were to switch our entire production volume of 33-centiliter and 12-ounce standard cans to the STAR format with a weight well below 10 grams, we would save approximately 30,000 metric tons of metal, or the equivalent to nearly 200,000 metric  
tons of GHG emissions. We plan to roll  
out the STARcan in other sizes around  
the world in the future as well. 
A NEW ERA FOR RENEWABLES
By year-end 2017, we installed three 
1.5-megawatt windmills at our Findlay, Ohio plant and purchased green electricity at two European sites. The GHG emissions saved through these projects equals more than 25,500 metric tons. Since January 2018, we also converted one of our Scandinavian plants to biogas. In addition to delivering on emission reduction goals and showing leadership on climate change, green power can also help manage fluctuating energy costs, create jobs in local economies, improve reputation and provide energy security.
Building on the positive initial experiences 
with small-scale renewable energy, Ball joined the Rocky Mountain Institute’s in our can businesses of 9 percent  
between 2012 and 2017.
During the reporting period, lighting 
continued to be a priority for our energy engineers. While it is crucial to provide proper lighting to keep our employees  
safe and allow them to effectively  
execute their jobs, lights do not need to  
be continually at full power. Every Ball  
plant changed some lighting to LED and several underwent complete conversions. We include adaptive lighting control options to further increase efficiency by matching the light levels to occupancy and daylight availability. Compared to conventional lighting, a completely converted LED plant with both lights and respective controls saves about 75 percent lighting electricity, with 55 percent of this savings from the LED and 45 percent from the controls.  
In addition to LED lighting, we are installing skylights and additional windows in some  
of our facilities to better utilize daylight.
Line control optimization provides another 
opportunity for efficiency gains. When production stops for short periods of time, for example during a label change, not all equipment needs full power. By installing variable frequency drives (VFDs), we slow or shut down certain systems to realize energy savings. By installing VFDs in 11 of our South American plants during 2017,  
BALL CORPORATIONThroughout 2017, Ball teams were building greenfield   
plants in Goodyear, Arizona (U.S.) and near  Madrid, Spain.  
From the beginning, the vision for  both facilities was to   
make them state-of-the-art, sustainable beverage can  
manufacturing plants.
In Goodyear, Ball implemented a new  lighting concept. Next  
to plant-wide LED lights with adaptive controls, we installed  
210 prismatic skylights and additional windows, allowing us  
to turn off  most high bay  lights during the day. From ovens  
to compressed air  and vacuum pumps, all equipment was  
engineered for  adaptive demand, minimizing energy  and  
water  consumption during downtimes. Due to the hot   
Arizona climate, we implemented multiple measures to  
minimize the building’s internal heat gain, including the  
installation of  water-cooled compressors.
In Spain, we  paid special attention to the design of  the 
compressed air  systems: high- and low-pressure compressed  
air systems, fed by  energy  efficient compressors with  
filtration and air  leader  control systems will simultaneously  
reduce energy  usage and maintenance costs. This plant will  
be one of  the most sustainable can plants with heat recovery,  
adaptive control systems for  vacuum and compressed  
air, plant-wide LED lighting, ultra-efficient burners on all  
ovens that save 16 percent of  the natural gas compared  
to standard ovens, and will manufacture the lightest  
33-centiliter  can body  in our  European system.SUSTAINABLE GREENFIELD PLANTS
Contributing  to the UN Sustainable  Development  Goals:
CLIMATE  CHANGEour value chain emissions, develop  
reduction plans and engage value chain  
partners in meaningful mitigation actions.  
Ball evaluated Scope 3 emissions from  
15 categories covering upstream emissions,  
like those embedded in the products and  
services we purchase, and downstream  
emissions, for  example from shipping our  
products to our  customers. 
While we continuously  seek  to optimize  
logistics, generate less waste and reduce  
business travel—which will reduce our  
Scope 3 emissions—we focus our  efforts  
on the carbon embedded in the metals  
we purchase. Of  our 2017 Scope 3  
emissions, 11.3 million metric tons are  
related to metals, with 93 percent  
stemming from aluminum and  
7 percent from tinplate steel.
Primary  aluminum produced in Europe  
generated 21 percent fewer  GHG emissions  
per ton produced in 2015 compared to  
2010. The rolling-mill process also became  
25 percent less carbon intensive during  
that same period. In North America, the  
carbon footprint of  primary  aluminum  
production was reduced by  37 percent  
per ton of  aluminum between 1995 and  
2010—with 75 percent  of the electricity  
required for  aluminum production coming  
from hydropower.  Business Renewables Center  (BRC) in  
2017. The BRC platform streamlines  
and accelerates corporate purchasing  
of off-site, large-scale wind and solar  
energy, making it easier  for us to enter  
the renewable energy  market by  
learning from the first movers.As a next step on our  renewables  
journey, we established a cross-functional  
renewables team at Ball and engaged  
a third-party  renewable energy  consultant  
in 2017 to explore opportunities to cover  
a significant portion of  our North American  
electricity  load with renewables. We are  
focusing on North America first because  
52 percent of  our 2017 global electricity  
load and 62 percent of  our Scope 2 GHG  
emissions come
 from North America,  
and due to the favorable energy  market  
conditions in that region. We expect to  
conclude the project selection process  
in the second half  of 2018 and then  
explore further  opportunities in Europe  
and other  regions where it makes  
economic and environmental sense.
GHG  EMISSIONS  ALONG  
THE  VALUE  CHAIN
Detailed insights into our  Scope 3  
emissions allow  us to identify  relevant  
risks and opportunities associated with  WE REDUCED OUR CARBON  
DIOXIDE EQUIVALENT EMISSIONS  
INTENSITY BY 46.5 PERCENT  
BETWEEN THE 2005 BASELINE  
AND 2017. IN 2018, ALCOA  
AND RIO TINTO ANNOUNCED  
ELYSIS—A REVOLUTIONARY  
PROCESS TO MAKE ALUMINUM  
THAT PRODUCES OXYGEN  
AND ELIMINATES ALL DIRECT  
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS  
FROM THE TRADITIONAL  
SMELTING PROCESS.
ROSA M. GARCIA PIÑEIRO
Vice President, Sustainability
Alcoa Corporation
Full statement available online  
BALL  CORPORATIONTo continue this successful track record 
and achieve additional substantial GHG emission reductions, the metal industry  
will need to maintain its focus on technology transfer, cross-industry collaboration and breakthrough technologies. To support these efforts, we partner with our strategic metal suppliers and exchange perspectives around how  
to further reduce the embedded carbon  
of metals (pages 28-33).
Recycling metals reduces the need to 
utilize more energy-intensive virgin metal. Recycling aluminum saves 95 percent of the energy needed for primary production, and an equivalent amount of GHG emissions. We estimate that more than half of the aluminum Ball consumed in 2017 was made from recycled material. However, we focus all our efforts on increasing the recycling rates of our products—because only a product that is recycled at the end of its useful life enables climate protection and a circular economy (pages 4-13).
EXPANDING DISASTER  
RELIEF SUPPORT
Ball and its employees are continuing their strong support of local communities worldwide through a range of activities that are tied to mitigating the causes  
and consequences of climate change  
to increase recycling rates, prepare for  
and respond to disasters, and support Science, Technology, Engineering  
and Math (STEM) education. 
Global support in 2017 included more  
than 38,000 volunteer hours and  
$5 million, plus in-kind product donations 
for disaster relief. In partnership with our customers, Ball also donated millions of cans for drinking water that assisted massive disaster relief efforts in Mexico, Puerto Rico and in several U.S. states.
When disaster threatens or strikes, the 
International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies provides shelter, food, and physical and emotional health services to address basic human needs and assist individuals and families to resume independence and normal daily activities. The Ball Foundation has supported the American Red Cross since 2012 and Ball launched a global partnership with the International Federation of Red Cross and Red  
Crescent Societies in 2017 to help  
fund disaster relief all over the world.
As a member of the Red Cross’ Disaster 
Responder Program, Ball pledges donations on an ongoing basis in  
advance of major disasters to help the Red Cross ensure an immediate response to meet the needs of those affected by disasters of all sizes, at no cost and regardless of income. In December 2017, for example, a series of wildfires ignited across Southern California (pages 14-15) and led to the evacuation of more than 230,000 people and significant property losses. The fires, which were exacerbated by large amounts of dry vegetation due to an unusually dry rainy season, burned more than 1,200 square kilometers and caused hazardous air conditions and power outages. Leveraging cash and in-kind support from employees and The Ball Foundation, Ball partnered with the American Red Cross to help support work of the disaster responders, making sure those affected had a safe place to stay, food to eat and a shoulder to lean on.
CLIMATE CHANGEFreshwater  makes up less than 1 percent of  the Earth’s total water.  
Scientists from around the world are studying how  precipitation,  
climate and weather  affect the availability  of our water  resources,  
especially  in the context of  climate change.
The Global Precipitation Measurement (GPM) mission, a joint effort  
between NASA  and the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency  
(JAXA), is improving understanding of  precipitation patterns  
around the world. GPM provides data about Earth’s water  and  
energy  cycles, improves forecasting of  events that cause natural  
disasters, and extends current capabilities for  using highly  accurate  
precipitation data.
Ball Aerospace designed, developed and fabricated the GPM  
Microwave Imager  (GMI). The highly  accurate GMI instrument  
now serves as a reference standard for  calibrating precipitation  measurements in NASA’s GPM  
constellation. GMI’s high frequency  
channels measure small particles of  ice, snow  
and rain while the JAXA-built Dual-Frequency  
Precipitation Radar  (DPR) instrument gives a 3D view  of  
a column of  precipitation. Together, these instruments give   
scientists an unprecedented view  of small precipitation   
particles with a much higher  degree of  accuracy. 
WATER STEWARDSHIP
BALL AEROSPACE
INNOVATIVE  SPACE  SYSTEMS  THAT  SUPPORT  ACTIONABLE  ENVIRONMENTAL  INTELLIGENCE
BALL  CORPORATIONTHE WATER-ENERGY-CLIMATE NEXUS
Water is one of our planet’s most important natural resources. A growing world 
population with greater demands for water-intensive food and energy, combined with changing ecosystems and severe pollution of water resources in some regions, can pose significant water supply constraints. At Ball, we recognize that water-related challenges can pose major business risks, yet, when well managed, they provide opportunities for improvement and innovation.
Because access to fresh water is vital to consumers, our customers, suppliers 
and Ball, we hold ourselves accountable for conserving and protecting water resources in our manufacturing plants, the communities where we operate, and along our entire value chain. As our company continues to transform, we are evaluating our resource and operational footprint and the associated risk factors to establish a Global Water Framework. This framework will formalize our global water stewardship efforts and outline a clear strategy for further engagement and conservation.
ORGANIZATIONAL WATER FOOTPRINT
Our number one measure to protect water resources is using as little as  
possible for each product we produce. In 2017, Ball used 9.7 million cubic  
meters of water worldwide, primarily for forming, washing, rinsing and cooling. Our global beverage packaging business, which accounted for 94 percent of  
the total, improved water efficiency by 8 percent during 2016 and 2017.  
We continue implementing projects to better understand and manage  
regional and local water impacts (see page 36 for detailed data). 
Ball’s most water-intensive process is washing our cans during  
manufacturing. On average, washers account for about two-thirds of  
the total water consumption in a beverage can plant. To create efficiencies,  
Ball’s washer process occurs in counter-current cascades to reuse water at 
different washing stages. More than 90 percent of the water we use in our  
can plants returns to the watershed after treatment, with the remainder primarily evaporating.On August 25, 2017, GPM provided a 
three-dimensional view of Hurricane 
Harvey’s heavy rainfall. GMI peered 
through dense storm clouds to reveal  
the location of intense rainfall bands  
near the center of the hurricane. GMI 
data indicated that powerful storms in 
the hurricane were dropping rain at a 
rate of more than 2.1 inches per hour. 
(Credits: NASA/JAXA)
WATER STEWARDSHIPOur beverage packaging business  
implemented a global operating model  
in 2017 to leverage our  scale and to  
strategically  utilize our  resources and  
assets. At that time, we created a global  
operations and engineering function,  
and formed a washer  team comprised  
of water  engineers from Ball’s five regions.  
The team works collaboratively  with the aim  
of helping to deliver  our water  reduction  
targets through benchmarking, best  
practice sharing and process innovation.  
Additionally, the global innovation team  
is challenging conventional thinking and  
examining breakthrough technologies that  
will allow  us to change how  and how  much  
water  we use in our  operations.
Multiple plants have appointed local water  
champions who analyze water  data, control  
water-consuming equipment and drive  
enhancements. We conducted an extensive  
water  usage survey  during the reporting  
period to evaluate the water  stewardship  
culture that these champions foster, actual  
data and process controls. The survey  
helped us determine best practices and  
key success factors that reduce water  
usage. Based on the learnings, we  
defined criteria for  future washer  rebuilds  
and shared successes with the global team.  To better  understand, monitor  and improve  
our water  usage, Ball continues to invest in  
water  monitoring equipment such as flow  
meters. In fact, the majority  of washers in  
our North and South American, and our  
European beverage can businesses are  
equipped with electronic water  meters.  
Enhanced water  monitoring increases  
the visibility  of water  consumption,  
fosters  employee awareness and  
enables us to better  understand and  
optimize our  systems. We are also mapping  
interdependencies between our  water  and  
energy  usage. For  example, more energy  
efficient compressors generate less waste  
heat resulting in less water  evaporation in  
cooling towers.
We continue to enhance wastewater  
treatment technologies, evaluate advanced  
treatment options for  effluents and install  
pilot systems to enable water  reuse. For  
example, in one of  our European plants,  
we are piloting a Zero Liquid Discharge  
(ZLD) system, an industrial wastewater  
treatment system developed to completely  
eliminate all liquid discharge. The main  
purpose of  ZLD is to recover  treated water  
so the washers can reuse it continuously,  
subsequently  reducing water  usage by  
as much  as 90 percent.OUR GLOBAL TEAM OF WATER  
ENGINEERS IS LEADING EXCITING  
TECHNOLOGY TRIALS AND WE  
REVIEW AND COMPARE IMPACTS  
AND REMAINING CHALLENGES  
OF THESE TECHNOLOGIES AND  
THEIR APPLICABILITY ACROSS  
OUR PLANT PORTFOLIO ON A  
REGULAR BASIS.
HUMBERTO DARLIM
Chemical Process Manager
Ball Beverage Packaging Europe
Full statement available online  
BALL  CORPORATIONDuring 2017, 49 percent of our  
88 manufacturing plants optimized  
water efficiency, with 16 percent improving 
by 10 percent or more, through a variety  
of projects: flow meters, training and building awareness, washer audits, process water pre-treatment, minimizing washer drag-out volumes while optimizing counterflow efficiencies, installing new coalescers to better separate oil and  
water that can be repurposed, and developing models to determine contamination profiles based on various parameters such as can type and line speed. In our Vsevolozhsk, Russia, plant,  
we also installed a new rainwater harvesting system that contributes to the plant successfully cutting their normalized water usage in half within two years.WATER IN OUR VALUE CHAIN
Water is crucial in aluminum production and can manufacturing. It is also a  
primary ingredient in our customers’ products, from growing crops such  
as barley, hops and sugarcane, to the actual drinks manufacturing, which is  
why we maintain an open dialogue  
with our suppliers, customers and the communities where we operate.
According to data by the International 
Aluminum Institute, about 16 cubic meters of fresh water and 11 cubic meters of sea water are consumed per metric ton of aluminum ingot produced. Water is used to process bauxite, manage dust emissions, generate hydroelectric power and for cooling. The rolling process consumes another 7 cubic meters of water on average. The environmental impacts associated with these uses vary significantly and must be evaluated in terms of their relative contribution to  
water scarcity in the respective region, as well as the extent to which water discharge differs from the intake as far as temperature, effluents and the total amount are concerned.The same principles apply to the products 
that fill our cans. With beer, for example, water footprint studies indicate that one liter of beer produced in, and with  
a majority of agricultural ingredients  
from, the Czech Republic has a total  
water footprint of 45 liters. In South  
Africa, it is 155 liters. The difference is driven primarily by the evaporative demand for crops due to meteorological conditions and the reliance on irrigated crops in some regions. Per 12-ounce can, metal production uses approximately 12 times more water (1 liter) compared to can manufacturing (86 milliliters). The combined water footprint of these processes is 14 times smaller than the footprint of the beer the can contains—when considering that ingredients come from a region with favorable crop  
water consumption.
UNDERSTANDING  
WATER-RELATED RISKS
Water scarcity, quality and discharge are operational and reputational risks for Ball and our value chain partners. Flooding is an example of our physical water-related risks (see case study). Water scarcity caused by drought or user over-allocation, 
WATER STEWARDSHIPwe added an extra heat exchanger to the 
cooling tower, which increases the water efficiency of this process by 25 percent over the standard, saving 55,000 cubic meters of fresh water per year in addition to the water saved through outdoor xeriscaping, landscaping that eliminates the need for supplemental irrigation water.
SUPPORTING DISASTER RELIEF
The Ball Foundation provides more  
than $500,000 in funding annually to  
the Disaster Relief Emergency Fund of  
the International Federation of Red  
Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC), the world’s largest humanitarian network, to expand its global support of disaster preparedness and relief efforts. Our commitment builds on Ball’s long-time support of the American Red Cross, and will help IFRC and its member societies to more quickly deliver humanitarian aid to people in need. It supports the work of 190 National Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, including the American Red Cross, empowered by a network of more than 17 million volunteers worldwide. and pollution that renders water unfit for 
use can also impact us and others. We continue to develop a deeper and more dynamic understanding of the water context in which we operate. For example, we assess the degree of water stress in  
the river basins where we have manufacturing plants.
Since 2013, we have utilized tools to map 
our facilities against watershed stress areas. As of year-end 2017, 10.2 percent  
of Ball’s packaging manufacturing locations were located in water-stressed areas  
(less than 1,700 cubic meters of renewable water per person per year). We continue to focus on reducing water usage in plants where overall water-related risks are already high or are expected to increase over the next decade. We also use these insights when planning new sites or introducing more water-intensive products at existing ones.
For example, the two greenfield plants Ball 
is building in Goodyear, Arizona, and near Madrid, Spain, are located in regions with high baseline water stress. In Goodyear, In 2016 and 2017, we supported exemplary water-related disaster relief efforts, including: Hurricane Matthew, which caused severe flooding in the southeastern U.S.; devastating wildfires in Tennessee  
and Southern California (pages 14-15);  
and Hurricane Harvey, which hit the U.S. Gulf Coast in August 2017.
Following heavy rain in June and July 2017, 
the Indian state of Gujarat, where Ball has a manufacturing plant, also was affected by severe flooding. The local Ball team came together to support flood victims and supplied used and new clothing, household items and cash donations to support rebuilding in the area. Employees of our Ahmedabad plant also put together a personal hygiene awareness event for a nearby rural village, visited the village to host health awareness talks, and were accompanied by doctors who offered health checks to the residents.
BALL CORPORATIONHurricane Harvey  (pages 22-23) is one of  the two most costly  
tropical cyclones on record, inflicting at least $125 billion in  
damage. Over  a four-day  period, many  areas received more  
than 1 meter  of rain as the system slowly  meandered over  
eastern Texas and adjacent waters, causing unprecedented  
flooding. The floods displaced more than 30,000 people and  
prompted more than 17,000 rescues.
The hurricane impacted some of  our employees’  homes.   
Because flooded roadways made travel dangerous, we   
temporarily  closed our  Conroe, Texas manufacturing plant   
in the interest of  safety. Several customers also experienced  
downtime at their  filling plants for  a few  days, leading to  
demand and supply  challenges for  us. More significantly, the  
freight costs went up in the  floods’  aftermath because trucks  
were needed during the rebuilding of  the affected areas.
Thanks to Ball’s support of  the Disaster  Responder  program,  
American Red Cross volunteers and workers were on the ground  
in Texas, preparing strategic shelter  and warehouse locations,  
and stocking food, cots, blankets and other  relief  supplies to help  
affected people. Ball employees also donated through Ball’s  
matching gifts program, raising more than $60,000 to help with  
Hurricane Harvey  relief  efforts. In addition, in partnership with  
several of  our customers such as MillerCoors and Oskar  Blues,  
Ball donated more than a million cans of  fresh canned drinking  
water  to relief  efforts during 2017.RALLYING FOR DISASTER RELIEF
Contributing to the UN Sustainable Development Goals:
WATER  STEWARDSHIPFor more than 45 years, Landsat Earth-observing satellite missions  
have gathered highly  calibrated multispectral imagery  from space,  
helping scientists understand our  ever-changing planet. This   
constant monitoring of  land changes allows us to see the impact   
of human activity  and natural events and to identify  corrective  
actions where necessary.
Ball Aerospace significantly  advanced Landsat sensor  technology  
with the Operational Land Imager  (OLI), which enhanced the   
satellite program with a more reliable design and overall   performance improvements while   
enabling objective comparisons with   
the entire Landsat data record.OLI’s sensors image the entire Earth every   
16 days, enabling decision makers to responsibly  
source resources and understand our  impact on   
the planet. From assessing forest change to
 monitoring   
the environmental impact of  mining, Landsat technology  
encourages responsible sourcing. 
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING
BALL AEROSPACE
INNOVATIVE  SPACE  SYSTEMS  THAT  SUPPORT  ACTIONABLE  ENVIRONMENTAL  INTELLIGENCE
BALL  CORPORATIONSUSTAINABLE  SUPPLY  CHAINS  FOR  FUTURE  GROWTH  
Around the world, more than 18,000 companies supply  goods and services  
to Ball. Roughly  93 percent of  our supply  chain partners globally  support our  
packaging businesses. The top 100 suppliers represent the majority  of our spend,  
in primarily  three categories: aluminum, steel and other  direct materials (ODM)  
such as inks and coatings. The supply  chains for  these categories are complex,  
global and diverse.
From resource scarcity  to human rights and environmental degradation,   
the sustainability  issues impacting our  supply  chains—as well as potential   
risks and opportunities—continue to evolve.
STRATEGIC  AND  RESPONSIBLE  SOURCING
Working with our  suppliers is an important aspect of  our product stewardship  
efforts. We utilize strategic, rather  than tactical, sourcing and the long-lasting  
partnerships we  have developed as part of  our strategic sourcing process  
enable us to discuss our  sustainability-related expectations with suppliers,  
and to collaborate successfully  on new  manufacturing technologies, product  
innovations, recycling programs and transparency.Most metal and some ODM suppliers are significantly  larger  than Ball, and  
their  business activities can have major  environmental, social and governance  
impacts. Based on extensive research, including life cycle assessments in which  
Ball has been involved since the mid-1990s, we know  that the majority  of metal  
packaging’s impacts occur  in metal production. Mining, for  example, is associated  
with safety, biodiversity  and human rights issues. Metal smelting, casting and  
rolling require large amounts of  energy, which results in considerable amounts   
of greenhouse gas emissions.
Due to the scale of  their  impact
 and risk  exposure, many  of our strategic suppliers  
established formal sustainability  programs prior  to the year  2000. Eighty-five  
percent of  our metal suppliers, for  example, publish environmental and social  
metrics as part of  their  sustainability  reporting.In a span of  six years, Landsat captures  
the changing course of  the Xingu  
River  and surrounding landscape in  
Northern Brazil. Construction began  
in 2011, and the complex began  
producing hydropower  in 2016. When  
fully operational in 2018, it will have  
a maximum capacity  of 11 gigawatts  
and will be the world’s fourth largest  
hydropower  plant. It will also supply  
electricity  to the country’s thriving  
aluminum sector, among many  other  
users. Landsat’s infrared bands  
distinguish water  and land. This band  
combination displays the rain forest in  
green and deforestation in faded green.
RESPONSIBLE  SOURCINGWe align our  efforts with business  
partners inside and outside of  the 
packaging industry  and with certain trade  
associations, including those of  aluminum  
and steel producers. By  encouraging this  
dialogue, we are able to deliver  more  
sustainable products to our  customers  
and consumers. We also engage in various  
cross-industry  collaboration platforms such  
as the Aluminum Stewardship Initiative  
(page 33) to develop and implement  
sustainability  standards, and to combine  
different stakeholders’  resources and  
expertise to achieve common goals like  
increasing metal packaging recycling rates.
In 2013, we introduced our  Responsible  
Sourcing Framework, a four-step approach  
that allows us to systematically  evaluate  
and engage our  suppliers:
1 CATEGORY  SUSTAINABILITY  
PROFILES
Our Category  Sustainability  Profiles serve  
as a first filter  and describe potential  
environmental, social and governance  
(ESG) related risks and opportunities for  
aluminum, steel and other  direct materials  
(ODMs), particularly  inks and coatings.  
We generate the profiles based on  
industry  standards such as the Standard  
for Responsible Mining, with life cycle  In line with our  global sourcing strategy, our  
responsible sourcing efforts help us to:
  Utilize lean supply  chains that  
support our  Drive for  10 and  
sustainability  strategies
  Enhance our  products’  
sustainability  profile
  Create shared value and reduce  
risk for our business and relevant  
stakeholders, including customers,  
suppliers and shareholders
  Build sourcing solutions in line  
with stakeholder  expectations
SUPPLIER  COLLABORATION
Exchanging information and ideas on  
sustainability  issues with our  suppliers is  
critical to improve the performance of  our 
products. To further  optimize can weights,  
for example, we must collaborate with our  
metal suppliers to develop alloys that  
allow  us to minimize container  weight  
while maintaining package integrity.  
This exchange of  ideas and capabilities  
creates opportunities for  Ball and our  
supply  chain partners to invest in research  
and development of  lighter, yet structurally  
sound, containers and reduce our  
products’  environmental footprint.
 CATEGORY  
SUSTAINABILITY  
PROFILESONBOARDING
REQUIREMENTS
SUPPLIER  
SUSTAINABILITY  
PROFILESCONTINUOUS  
IMPROVEMENTLife cycle  
assessments
Industry  standards
Media and stakeholder  
analysisSupplier  Guiding  
PrinciplesContracts (include  
e.g., human trafficking,  
conflict minerals  
requirements)
Site-specific  
risk assessment
Media and stakeholder  
analysis
Supplier  scorecardsBest practice transferImprovement plansAudits (if  required)
BALL  CORPORATIONassessment experience, and media and 
stakeholder monitoring. They list high-risk countries because certain ESG risks, like human rights abuses or climate change impacts, tend to be more prevalent in certain regions.
2  ONBOARDING 
REQUIREMENTS
With our Onboarding Requirements, 
we communicate and align the way our suppliers consider ESG aspects, and aim to receive written confirmation that responsible business practices are maintained throughout our supply chain and that our direct suppliers abide by all applicable laws and regulations.
For example, we require our suppliers 
to comply with Ball’s Supplier Guiding Principles.
  The principles were  
developed with input from key  
customers, suppliers and socially 
responsible investment analysts, and require that our suppliers certify and demonstrate compliance with them.  
They cover employment practices,  
human rights, environment, health and safety, antitrust, bribery and corruption. Ball provides the principles to all suppliers and incorporates them as part of all new contractual relationships.New contracts also include clauses on human trafficking. Ball’s Conflict Minerals Policy includes information on how we support laws related to ending the violence and human rights violations in the mining of certain minerals in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and surrounding countries. Our annual Conflict Minerals Reports detail the due diligence we perform to determine the origins of tin used by our steel suppliers as required in Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.
 
3  SUPPLIER SUSTAINABILITY 
PROFILES
Supplier Sustainability Profiles of all critical 
metal and ODM suppliers are based on site-specific online self-assessments, which we began to roll out globally in 2017. The Sedex platform enables us to evaluate performance around labor rights, health and safety, the environment and business ethics. Management proficiency risk scores are combined with inherent risk scores based on country, products, sector profile and site functions. By mapping sites against a variety of risk indices and multiple indicators to populate a scorecard for each supplying site, we can identify and ultimately mitigate risk by engaging with the sites that need the most support within our supply chain.
  In early 2018, we already had more than 
50 percent of our metal and major ODM suppliers globally assessed through the platform and we will continue the roll-out of the Sedex platform to our metal and ODM suppliers during the year. By the end of June 2018, 35 percent were found to have overall low risk profiles with the remainder showcasing a medium overall risk. While almost all assessed suppliers showed good scores in terms of their own management systems and performance, several suppliers received higher inherent risk ratings due to the geographies in which they operate, and prevalent sustainability risks in that region. Some of these suppliers already granted us access to site-specific results of ethical audits.
4  CONTINUOUS  
IMPROVEMENT
If a supplier scores below expectations,  
we jointly develop a Continuous 
Improvement plan and we may recommend a social audit when there  
is no evidence for improved scores in the following calendar year. By developing and approving cooperative programs and timetables, both partners can be successful for the long term. Ball may terminate business relations if a supplier violates a fundamental aspect of our requirements and is unwilling to change.
RESPONSIBLE SOURCINGContributing to the UN Sustainable Development Goals:SUPPLIER COLLABORATION
Cross functional teams from Ball and aluminum supplier  Novelis  
have worked together  on an improvement project since 2017.  
The ultimate goals are to achieve excellent sustainable metal  
performance on our  production lines and to build trust between   
the two partners by  establishing effective communication   
and collaboration.
Joint process audits helped establish a common understanding  
of all processes from melting to rolling and can making. Novelis  
took  primary  data from our  plants and related it to data from their  
rolling process, allowing the team to identify  the origin of  multiple  
problems and improvement opportunities. The application of  the 
eight disciplines (8D) problem-solving model helped frame specific  
coil quality  issues and enabled measurable improvements,  including  
fewer  cupper  jams in our  can body  plants and eliminating stain  
defects in our  end plants. The result is a reduction in the amount  
of metal we consume and fewer  line stoppages, which increases  
employee safety  as well as the energy  and water  efficiencies of   
our lines.
We also shared detailed performance data on coil and can quality  
characteristics, initiated a study  on metal input and process  
variables, implemented a joint risk  assessment, and ran trials of  
optimized metal. These steps benefit our  downgauging program  
and ensure that Novelis can optimize their  process for  the targeted  
gauges, allowing Ball and its customers to further  minimize the  
weight of  their  cans and associated environmental impacts.
BALL  CORPORATIONsustainability  issues in the aluminum  
value chain. It covers various aspects,  
including material stewardship, energy  
and greenhouse gas emissions, biodiversity  
and labor  rights. The ASI Chain of  Custody  
Standard sets requirements for  the 
creation of  a Chain of  Custody  for CoC  
material, including ASI aluminum, which is  
produced and processed through the value  
chain into diverse downstream sectors.
ASI members include organizations from  
different sectors, including production and  
transformation, industrial users and civil  
society. Several of  our suppliers and some  
customers, as well as the World Wildlife  
Fund for  Nature (WWF), the International  
Union for  Conservation of  Nature (IUCN),  
and the Institute for  Human Rights and  
Business (IHRB) are ASI members as of  
May 2018.
Since  2017, Ball has conducted ASI self  
assessments for  two of  its Global Beverage  
Packaging regions and we are committed  
to having an entity  certified according  
to the ASI Performance Standard by  
the end of  2019. We are exploring  
opportunities with our  suppliers to bring  
ASI-certified cans to market, and we are  
in conversations with various customers  
to understand their  strategies around  
upstream responsible sourcing practices.Two percent of  the aluminum produced  
annually  around the world is used for  
packaging. From beverage cans to  
aluminum slugs and aerosol cans,  
Ball converted more than 1.7 million  
metric tons of  aluminum in 2017. While  
aluminum offers many  advantages  
such as light weight, high strength,  
impermeability  and infinite recyclability,  
it also causes environmental, social and  
governance impacts.To encourage and recognize responsible  
production, sourcing and stewardship of  
aluminum, Ball has been a member  of 
the Aluminum Stewardship Initiative (ASI)  
since 2013. The ASI standards, launched  
in December  2017, were developed and  
designed to be applied throughout the  
aluminum value chain to enable producers  
and users of  aluminum to demonstrate  
responsible production and sourcing  
practices. ASI provides independent  
assurance of  performance, and reinforces  
and promotes consumer  and stakeholder  
confidence in aluminum products.
 
The ASI Performance Standard defines  
environmental, social and governance  
principles and criteria to address  
WITH THE LAUNCH OF ASI’S  
NEW STANDARDS IN 2017,  
WHICH BALL HELPED TO  
DEVELOP, OUR EXPECTATIONS  
FOR THE COMPANY ARE  
TO EMBRACE THESE BEST  
PRACTICES AND ACHIEVE  
ITS GOAL OF WORKING  
WITH SUPPLIERS TO  
CERTIFY THE ENTIRE VALUE  
CHAIN ACCORDING TO THE  
NEW STANDARDS.
EMILY DWYER
ESG Equity  Research Analyst
Brown Advisory
Full statement available online  
RESPONSIBLE  SOURCINGAt Ball, we believe in our  people, our  
culture and our  ability  to deliver  value to  
our stakeholders. Like uncompromising  
integrity  and customer  focus, being  
sustainable is part of  our Drive for  10 vision,  
which leverages Ball’s strengths to achieve  
continued long-term success.  We aspire  
to create a competitive advantage by  
making cans the most sustainable package  
in the beverage and aerosol value chains,  
and ensuring customers and consumers  
recognize the outstanding sustainability  
credentials of  cans.
Our triple bottom-line approach to  
sustainability  has evolved since it was  
formalized in 2006. After  initially  focusing  
on Operational Excellence, we broadened  
our scope to cover  the entire life cycle  
of our products, and added Product  
Stewardship, Talent Management and  
Community  Ambassadors to our  set 
of four  sustainability  priorities. Our  
strategy  is supported by  several global  
policies, position statements, and tools  
for performance monitoring, continuous  
improvement and best-practice sharing.  
We also embedded sustainability  into 
our strategic planning, and committed to  
mid- and long-term sustainability  goals.  
We strive to put the right people, processes  and partners in place to help us create  
long-term shared value and achieve our  
sustainability  vision.
SUSTAINABILITY  GOALS
Governments around the world officially  
adopted the United Nations Sustainable  
Development Goals (SDGs) in 2015 to end  
poverty, protect the planet and ensure  
prosperity  for all by  2030. At Ball, we  
focus our  efforts on four  SDGs where we  
can have the highest impact: Responsible  
Consumption and Production, Climate  
Action, Clean Water  and Sanitation,  
and Partnerships for  the Goals.
We made good progress toward  
the 10 ambitious 2020 goals we  
first published in 2016 (see next page).  
The goals are backed by  detailed,  
shorter-term goals in  each business,
region and at the plant-level.
ONGOING  STAKEHOLDER  
DIALOGUE
Engaging our  stakeholders is essential to  
how we do business. By  listening to their  
ideas and needs, we better  understand  
their  expectations and can identify  
emerging opportunities and challenges  
in our  markets. In turn, stakeholders can  SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENTIN OUR VIEW, BALL  
CORPORATION’S HOLISTIC  
APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY,  
GROUNDED IN MANAGEMENT’S  
EXPLICIT CONSIDERATION  
OF VARIOUS STAKEHOLDERS,  
INCLUDING ITS CUSTOMERS,  
EMPLOYEES, COMMUNITIES
AND THE ENVIRONMENT,  
HAS BEEN A KEY DRIVER OF  
GROWTH AND PROFITABILITY  
FOR ITS INVESTORS.
DAN CROWE, CFA
Partner, Portfolio Manager
William Blair
Full statement available online  
BALL  CORPORATIONdeepen their  understanding of  Ball and  
how we can work  together  to create   
shared value.
We regularly  engage various stakeholders  
such as customers, employees, investors,  
suppliers, trade associations, governmental  
representatives, regulatory  authorities and  
nongovernmental organizations. Because  
many  of the sustainability  challenges we  
encounter, such as water  scarcity  and  
packaging recycling, are too complex  
for one organization to tackle alone, we  
participate in several multi-stakeholder  
partnerships that allow  us and others to  
bundle resources and expertise to develop  
effective solutions.We conducted another  materiality   
survey  in early  2018, and nearly   
500 stakeholders participated and  
provided their  perspectives. While our   
four sustainability  priorities have not  
changed, survey  results help us   
fine-tune
 our approach and reporting. 
OVERSIGHT
Accountability  for our sustainability  
performance is monitored at various   
levels of  the organization. It is overseen   
by the Nominating/Corporate Governance  
Committee, a committee of  Ball  
Corporation’s board of  directors chaired   
by a non-executive Ball board member.Since 2009, Ball’s Sustainability  
Steering Committee (SSC) ensures that  
sustainability  is fully  aligned with, and  
integrated into, our  strategies, as well   
as balanced with stakeholder   
expectations. Composed of  corporate   
and senior  executives from our   
businesses, the SSC meets twice a   
year  and steers the implementation   
of our sustainability  strategy.
We utilize a global data monitoring system  
to assess the monthly  sustainability  
performance against goals at the plant,   
as well  as regional, business and corporate  
levels. This transparency  informs decision  
making, helps prioritize projects and makes  
sustainability  relevant for  employees at all  
levels of  the organization. 
RISK  MANAGEMENT
We systematically  identify  and assess risks  
in all of  our businesses so we can develop  
management plans, including supply  chain,  
commodity  and currency  volatility, human  
capital, financial risk  and legislative action.  
Sustainability  issues addressed within this  
framework  include risks related to natural  
resources, climate change, water, human  
rights, and packaging and packaging   
waste regulations.
ON TRACK SOME PROGRESS BEHINDCut the carbon footprint of  our beverage cans by  25% (considering   
goals on multiple issues, including weight optimization, energy  in  
can making and metal production, recycling rates). (baseline 2010)
Achieve industry  recycling rates targets for  metal packaging   
products in developed markets, and work  toward measurement   
and improvement of  metal packaging recycling in emerging markets.
Deliver  three major  aerospace programs that will provide significant  
benefits in areas such as climate change, weather, drought, pollution   
and biodiversity  measurements.
Reduce three-year  rolling average Total Recordable Incident Rate  
by 25%. (2015)
 By year-end 2016, determine baseline for  electricity, natural gas,  
water, waste and VOCs for  our company  post-close of  the Rexam  
acquisition and commit to bottom-up normalized targets for  our 
global beverage can business by  mid-2017. (2015)
Improve energy efficiency  by 5% (2016)
Improve water  efficiency  by 5% (2016)
Reduce total waste generation per  unit   
of production by  6% (2016)
Determine a science-based greenhouse gas emission reduction  
target by  mid-2018. (2015)  
Enhance overall employee engagement and talent retention by   
assessing and continuously  improving the processes that support   
the way  we acquire, onboard, develop and move talent at Ball.
Roll out diversity  and inclusion tools globally, expand our  Ball  
Resource Groups  company-wide, and meet the criteria required to  
secure a place on the Diversity, Inc. Top 50 Companies for  Diversity.
Global roll out of  Community  Ambassadors program.
 Establish 2030 global volunteer  goal that is aligned with the   
UN Sustainable Development Goals.BALL’S  2020  SUSTAINABILITY  GOALS
SUSTAINABILITY   MANAGEMENTWe cover five calendar years in our 
sustainability reporting to enable stakeholders to perform trend analyses.An interactive charting tool on our website allows users to filter, analyze and display data on our environmental and safety performance. 
 
Environmental data covers all Ball sites 
globally, including owned and leased manufacturing facilities where we have operational control, major administrative offices, external warehouses and research and development facilities. The data was validated centrally and externally assured. Any differences discovered or reported at a later date are corrected retroactively. Because our company is constantly evolving (acquisitions, divestitures, new plant start-ups, closing of sites), the number of sites contributing data changes accordingly. Environmental metrics for all years shown include plants we acquired through the acquisition of Rexam PLC in June 2016 and exclude facilities we were required to divest. We also report progress as an intensity index which considers different normalization factors for different businesses. Detailed information about normalization factors and the external assurance statement are available online. 
 
All social statistics represent year-end 
values and cover 100 percent of our employee base.DATAFINANCIAL DATA   2013 2014 2015 2016  2017 Change vs 2013
Net Sales  $ in millions  8,468 8,570 7,997 9,061 10,983 30 %
Comparable Operating Earnings1 $ in millions 874 920 801 976 1,220 40 %
Free Cash Flow1 $ in millions 461 621 479 (412 ) 922 100 %
EVA dollars1,2 $ in millions 149 191 181 199 240 61 %
Diluted earnings per share (comparable basis) 1,3  1.64 1.94 1.74 1.74 2.04 24 %
Cash dividends per share3  0.26 0.26 0.26 0.26 0.365 40 %
1  Non-U.S. GAAP measures should not be considered in isolation and should not be considered superior to, or a substitute for, ﬁ  nancial measures calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Further discussion of non-GAAP 
ﬁ  nancial measures is available in Item 7 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K 2 Net operating earnings after tax less a capital charge of 9% after-tax on average invested capital employed .3 Amounts in 2016, 2015, 
2014 and 2013 have been retrospectively adjusted for the 2-for-1 stock split that was effective on May 16, 2017.
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA  UNIT 2013 2014 2015 2016  2017 absolute index
Energy Consumption MWh 4,647 4,628 4,646 4,6371 4,601 -1 % -5 %
 - Direct energy2  2,305 2,280 2,277 2,248 2,259 -2 % -5 %
 - Indirect energy3  2,342 2,349 2,369 2,390 2,342 0 % -5 %
Greenhouse gas emissions tons CO2e 1,503 1,494 1,499 1,422 1,410 -6 % -10 %
 - Scope 14  466 462 465 451 453 -3 % -5 %
 - Scope 25  1,037 1,032 1,034 971 957 -8 % -13 %
 - Scope 36  - - - - 14,657 -  - 
Water consumption m3 in thousands 10.006 10,270 10,273 10,103 9,794 -2 % -8 %
Waste generation7 tons in thousands 60 66 69 73 73 21 % 15 %
 - Waste recycled/reused2  33 39 41 42 46 37 % 5 %
VOC emissions tons in thousands 9.6 10.4 10.7 9.5 9.5 -1 % -5 %
1  Product group-speciﬁ  c normalization factors are used to calculate a consolidated intensity index for Ball. The index accounts for overall changes in production over a period, and for changes in production mix between 
business segments. It is set at 100 for the reference year 2013 (see www.ball.com/normalization). 2 Natural gas, propane, diesel, jet fuel 3 Electricity, hot water, steam 4 Direct GHG emissions from sources owned or 
controlled by Ball, primarily from fossil fuels, such as natural gas and diesel, burned on site. 5 Indirect GHG emissions from the generation of electricity, heating, cooling and steam generated off site and purchased by 
Ball 6 Indirect GHG emissions from sources not owned or directly controlled by Ball, but related to our activities (e.g. purchased goods and services, business travel). 7 All waste streams other than metal manufacturing 
scrap, all of which is sent back to our suppliers and remelted. 8 All tons refer to metric tonsChange vs 2013
(Scope 1+2)in thousands8in thousands
SOCIAL DATA  UNIT 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Change vs 2013
Employees (year-end) 1,2 # 14,500  14,600  15,100  18,700  18,300  26 %
 - Male % of total workforce 82 % 82 % 83 % 83 % 84 % 2 %
 - Female  18 % 18 % 17 % 17 % 16 % -11 %
 - <30  13 % 13 % 13 % 15 % 15 % 15 %
 - 30-50  54 % 53 % 54 % 57 % 57 % 6 %
 - >50  34 % 34 % 33 % 28 % 28 % -18 %
Employee turnover 3 % of total workforce 14 % 10 % 11 % 13 % 14 % 0 %
Total recordable incident rate  recordable incidents 1.70  1.60  1.23  1.06  1.00  -41 %
Severity rate lost work days 10.37  10.54  7.42  9.18  9.63  -7 %
Work-related fatalities # 0  0  0  0  0  0 %
1 Numbers have been rounded. The increase in 2016 was as result of our acquisition of Rexam PLC. 2 We strive to create an environment that unlocks qualities, values and potential of each employees and leverages    
 diverse perspectives, experiences, competencies, cultures and aspirations. With our global diversity and inclusion efforts further maturing, we expect to report other D&I metrics than gender and age in the future. 
3 Included are voluntary departures and those due to dismissal, retirement and passing./200,000 hours worked
/200,000 hours worked
BALL CORPORATIONCONTACTS
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This document contains “forward-looking” 
statements concerning future events and financial performance. Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “believes,” “targets,” “likely” and similar expressions typically identify forward-looking statements, which are generally any statements other than statements of historical fact. Such statements are based on current expectations or views of the future and are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied. You should therefore not place undue reliance upon any forward-looking statements and any of such statements should be read in conjunction with, and, qualified in their entirety by, the cautionary statements referenced below. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Key factors, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual outcomes and results to be different are summarized in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including Exhibit 99 in our Form 10-K, which are available on our website and at www.sec.gov . Additional 
factors that might affect: a) our packaging segments include product demand fluctuations; availability/cost of raw materials; competitive packaging, pricing and substitution; changes in climate and weather; competitive activity; failure to achieve synergies, productivity improvements or cost reductions; mandatory deposit or other restrictive packaging laws; customer and supplier consolidation, power and supply chain influence; changes in major customer or supplier contracts or a loss of a major customer or supplier; political 
CORPORATE COMMUNICATIONS
+1 (303) 460 - 2476 
corpinfo@ball.com  
www.ball.com/media-roomINVESTOR RELATIONS
+1 (303) 460 - 3537 ascott@ball.comwww.ball.com/investors
SUSTAINABILITY
+1 (303) 460 - 4429 sustainability@ball.comwww.ball.com/sustainability
FOLLOW US ONLINE
 www.facebook.com/BallCorpHQ  
 www.twitter.com/BallCorpHQ  
 www.linkedin.com/company/ball  
 www.youtube.com/user/BallCorp  
 www.instagram.com/ballcorporation
You can download this report along with 
additional sustainability information at  
www.ball.com/sustainabilityinstability and sanctions; currency controls; changes 
in foreign exchange or tax rates, including due to the effects of the 2017 U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act; and tariffs or other governmental actions in any country affecting goods produced by us or in our supply chain, including imported raw materials,  such as pursuant to section 232 of the U.S. Trade Expansion Act of 1962; b) our aerospace segment include funding, authorization, availability and returns of government and commercial contracts; and delays, extensions and technical uncertainties affecting segment contracts; c) the company as a whole include those listed plus: changes in senior management; regulatory action or issues including tax, environmental, health and workplace safety, including U.S. FDA and other actions or public concerns affecting products filled in our containers, or chemicals or substances used in raw materials or in the manufacturing process; technological developments and innovations; litigation; strikes; labor cost changes; rates of return on assets of the company’s defined benefit retirement plans; pension changes; uncertainties surrounding geopolitical events and governmental policies  both in the U.S. and in other countries, including the U.S. government elections, budget, sequestration and debt limit; reduced cash flow; ability to achieve cost-out initiatives and synergies; interest rates affecting our debt; and successful or unsuccessful joint ventures, acquisitions and divestitures, including with respect to the Rexam PLC acquisition and its integration, or the associated divestiture; the effect of the acquisition or the divestiture on our business relationships, operating results and business generally.BALL CORPORATION
10 Longs Peak Drive  
Broomfield, CO 80021 USA
+1.303.469.3131
www.ball.com
© Ball Corporation 2018. All rights reserved.  
Ball and the Ball logo and names of Ball  products are trademarks or registered  trademarks of Ball Corporation