Ball Corporation
2010/2011 Sustainability Report
Community
talent
managementoperationsinnovation
supply Chain reCyCling
the paper and printer used in the production of the 2010/2011 Ball Corporation s ustainability r eport  
are certified to Forest s tewardship Council™ (FsC®) standards, which provide environmentally  
appropriate, socially beneficial and economically viable management of the world’s forests.
Copyright © Ball Corporation 2012.   Please recycle.Online Reporting
Further information on our 
sustainability efforts and  
additional information about  
Ball is available at www.ball.com .
this symbol indicates  
that additional information 
is available online.What’s Inside
 1 Ceo perspective
 2 2011 Ball p rofile
 4 o ur approach to s ustainability
 6 innovation
 8 operations
 18 talent management
 20 recycling
24 supply Chain
26 CommunityaBout o ur r eporting
this is Ball Corporation’s third biennial sustainability report. i t covers calendar years 2010 and 2011 and complements  
our financial reporting with information on our environmental and social performance.
the report covers our sustainability priorities – innovation, operations, talent management, recycling, supply chain  
and community – identified as topics most material to Ball through input from customers, employees, investors and 
suppliers. t hese stakeholders also represent the primary audience for our sustainability reporting.
unless otherwise stated, we are reporting information globally from operations where we have operational control, 
including joint ventures where we are the majority owner. For economic, social, energy and water data, we also include  our main administrative offices in the u .s. and in g ermany. We do not cover joint ventures in social data.
acquisitions are included beginning the month after the acquisition was completed. n ew Ball operations whose data 
appears for the first time in this report include our aluminum slug manufacturing operations in n orth a merica and e urope, 
our extruded aluminum packaging business in e urope and an acquired metal beverage plant in China. e nvironmental 
information from the l atapack-Ball joint venture in Brazil is also included for the first time. Due to the various changes in 
our businesses and product mix in 2010 and 2011, we redefined how we report normalized environmental data. t his allows 
for a meaningful comparison of our performance over time. 
 
our reporting is based on the reporting framework of the g lobal r eporting i nitiative ( gri 3.1). We assess our application 
to be at l evel B. a detailed gri Content i ndex is available at www.ball.com .
We welcome your comments and questions on our sustainability efforts. p lease direct them to sustainability @ball.com .2 011  was a successful year for Ball Corporation, during which our company’s 
economic, social and environmental performance helped us create value 
for our stakeholders and make significant progress on our sustainability goals.
Becoming more sustainable means thinking long term, which is a key component  
of Ball’s Drive for 10 vision that we introduced in 2011. a t its highest level, Drive for 10 
is a mindset around perfection, with a greater sense of urgency around our future  success. o ur triple bottom line approach to sustainability – emphasizing economic, 
social and environmental progress – is directly aligned with Drive for 10. h ow  
sustainability contributes to achieving our vision is described at the beginning of  each chapter in this report.
We have been practicing sustainability for much of Ball‘s 132-year history, and we 
have made great progress on this journey. o ver the past five years, we have focused 
on measuring and improving our sustainability performance within our facilities.  
We have also broadened our scope to collaborate with customers and suppliers to determine opportunities that provide the greatest sustainability impact within the  
supply chain of our products. During the 2010 /2011 reporting period, we made  
progress on numerous sustainability aspects. s ome of these highlights include:
Economic• We generated over $1 billion in free cash flow to support our efforts to be  
economically sustainable. o ur total investment in our business was $694 million, 
which helped to create jobs in our communities and position us well for the future.
• Ball’s comparable diluted earnings per share grew nearly 16 percent in 2011 versus 
2010, and our stock generated a total return of nearly 6 percent for shareholders.
Environmental• We exceeded our global, 10-year greenhouse gas emissions reduction goal of 16 per -
cent two years early, through continuous efforts to improve our energy efficiency.
• We increased the percentage share of the total waste from our facilities worldwide 
that is recycled from 37 to 47 percent.
Social• We improved our safety record by reducing our total recordable incident rate by 27 percent, achieving far lower levels  
than our industry peers as reported by the u .s. Bureau of l abor s tatistics.
• We launched the Ball Foundation to take a strategic approach to our charitable giving. o verall, we contributed more  
than $6.5 million to our communities around the world.
our company changed significantly during the reporting period. For example, we divested our plastic packaging business 
and became the world’s largest producer of aluminum slugs, used for extruded aluminum packaging. With these changes,  
we learned that the way we previously reported progress on our environmental performance no longer adequately reflected the range of our businesses. We adjusted the way we normalize performance indicators to better align with our businesses and allow our stakeholders to evaluate our progress in a meaningful way. o ur future performance goals for our sustainability 
priorities can be found in each chapter of this report.
at Ball, sustainability is the responsibility of every one of our 14,300 employees, and their efforts are the reason for our 
success. We are proud of our sustainability progress and believe it differentiates our company. We also know that we have many more opportunities and challenges ahead as we strive to become a more sustainable enterprise.
Ceo perspe Ctive
“Becoming more  
sustainable means  
thinking long term,  
which is a key  
component of Ball’s  
Drive for 10 vision. ”
John A. Hayes
president and  
Chief e xecutive o fficer
1201 1 Ball p roFile
creation.    at its highest level, Drive for 10 is a mindset 
around perfection, with a greater sense of urgency  
around our future success.
To achieve our Drive for 10 vision, we must pursue  
our strategy of:
• Maximizing  value in our existing businesses
• Expanding  into new products and capabilities
• Aligning  ourselves with the right customers and markets
• Broadening  our geographic reach
• Leveraging  our know-how and technological expertise
Financial Performance
Despite wider economic uncertainty in much of the world  
in 2011, Ball’s total sales increased to $8.6 billion from  $7.6 billion in 2010, while net earnings attributable to the company declined to $444 million from $468 million the  year before. Comparable diluted earnings per share grew nearly 16 percent and Ball’s stock price closed the year  at $35.71 per share, generating a total return to investors  
of nearly 6 percent. 
 Overview and Drive For 10
Ball Corporation is a packaging and aerospace products and 
services company focused on achieving long-term success for Ball and our stakeholders – our shareholders, our cus -
tomers, our employees, our suppliers and our communities.
about 90 percent of our annual sales and profits come 
from our packaging businesses, primarily our global metal beverage can business. t he rest comes from our aerospace 
technologies and services business. t he u nited s tates  
accounts for 62 percent of our sales, with almost all of  the remaining 38 percent coming from Canada, e urope,  
asia and s outh a merica.
in 2011, Ball introduced the company’s Drive for 10  
vision, 
 a strategy for continued, long-term value  Ball at a Glance
Founded: 1880 Businesses: metal packaging and aerospace employees: 14,300total sales: $8.6 billion 
headquarters: Broomfield, Colorado
2011 Key  Figures
ProductsBall Corporation North America South America Europe Asia
• Beverage cans
• Food cans• Aerosol cans• Slugs• Aerospace• Plastic containers• Beverage cans• Food cans• Aerosol cans• Slugs• Aerospace• Beverage cans• Aerosol cans• Beverage cans• Aerosol cans• Slugs• Beverage cans• Plastic containers
   (non-beverage)
Employees 
(approx.)14,300* 9,100 300* 3,400 1,500
Number of plants 62 32 6 17 7
Number of countries
where we operate12 2 2 7 1
Units of production
(in billions)73.8 47.1 3.8 18.4 4.6
Energy consumption(kWh; in billions) 3.37 2.15 0.14 0.87 0.21
Water consumption(cubic meters;in millions) 6.16 3.23 0.30 1.58 1.05
Key sustainability
challenges• Global alignment
• Best practice
    sharing• Recycling of     our packaging
• Water• Innovation• Safety• Talent acquisition• Waste• Innovation• Talent acquisition• Talent retention• Waste• Water
* Does not include employees of Ball’s Brazilian joint venture, Latapack-Ball Embalagens Ltda.
22aerosol & spe Cialty pa CKaging
We are the largest producer in the world of aluminum slugs used for extruded 
aluminum packaging and a leading manufacturer of steel and extruded alumi -
num aerosol cans and other metal packaging. a t plants in the a mericas and 
europe, we manufacture extruded aluminum aerosol packaging, three-piece steel aerosol cans, metal paint cans, general line metal cans, oblong cans and decorative tins in a variety of shapes and sizes.
metal  FooD paCK aging
We are one of the largest producers of completely recyclable two- and  three-piece steel food cans. o ur manufacturing plants located throughout 
north a merica supply approximately 5 billion cans in a full range of sizes  
and shapes, as well as a full line of metal sheeting, specialty coatings and 
decorating service s.metal  Beverage  paCK aging
We are the largest manufacturer of metal beverage cans in the world. a t our 
beverage can and end manufacturing facilities in the a mericas, europe and 
asia, we manufacture approximately 65 billion infinitely recyclable beverage 
cans every year.
Ball aerospa Ce & te Chnologies  Corp.
Ball a erospace supports critical missions of national agencies such as nasa , 
Department of Defense and other u .s. government and commercial entities. 
We develop and manufacture spacecraft, advanced instruments and sensors, 
components, data exploitation systems and solutions for strategic, tactical and scientific applications.
Legend
Extruded aluminum packagingAerospace Research facility
Joint venture
(50% or greater ownership )Headquarters
Metal beverage packagingMetal food & household 
products packaging
Operations office Plastic packaging
Our Businesses(locations year-end 2011)
33our a pproaC h to s ustaina Bility
By balancing economic, environmental and social  
impacts in our decision making and activities, we will 
create long-term shared value for our stakeholders and  for Ball Corporation. t his is our sustainability vision, which 
reflects our triple bottom line approach to sustainability  and contributes to Ball becoming a more successful and  sustainable enterprise.
sustainability is also part of our Drive for 10 vision,
  which 
leverages Ball’s strengths to achieve continued long-term success. 
   since we began a more formal approach to  
sustainability in 2006, we have broadened and deepened  our efforts by working to embed sustainability within our  operations and within the entire packaging supply chain.  For example, we integrated sustainability into our annual strategic planning process to drive measurable environ-mental and social progress inside our operations.
Operations Embracing Sustainability
We use various tools to inform our 14,300 employees  
about our sustainability efforts, to explain our company’s sustainability goals, to highlight improvements, to  
share best practices and to generate new ideas. t o  
make sustainability more tangible for our employees,  
we introduced the term “Big 6” in 2008. t his is a set of  
sustainability indicators that we can control inside our  
operations: safety, electricity, natural gas, water, waste and volatile organic compounds.
to drive measurable progress within our operations  
and to hold ourselves accountable, each plant commits  
to two-year sustainability goals. p rogress is regularly  
evaluated with management and Ball’s s ustainability  
steering Committee reviews progress by each division  
on a quarterly basis. 
 
During the reporting period, we created a measurement 
system for our global beverage can operations that allows for monthly comparisons on 20 key manufacturing metrics, including the Big 6. t he higher visibility of all plants’  
performance with respect to these metrics helps to drive progress. another program introduced in 2011 is a best 
practice identification, evaluation and sharing tool. t he  
best practices with the greatest impact are shared with  and implemented in other plants.
We also introduced the r . David h oover s ustainability 
award in 2011, named after our former chief executive  
officer and current chairman of the board. i n each of our 
divisions, the annual performance and improvement of  each plant is analyzed in ten categories. a longside the  
Big 6, aspects such as promoting regional recycling initia -
tives or the team player behavior of each plant, are also assessed. t he most successful facility in each division 
receives the award. t his competition further increases  
the engagement of plants in measuring, understanding  and improving their sustainability performance.
Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality
engaging our stakeholders is an essential part of how we 
do business. By listening to their ideas and needs, we better understand their expectations and can identify emerging  
opportunities and challenges in our markets. We regularly engage various stakeholders such as customers, employees, investors, suppliers, trade associations, governmental rep -
resentatives, regulatory authorities and non-governmental organizations. o n www.ball.com, we provide a summary of 
our stakeholder outreach efforts.
 
We performed an extensive sustainability materiality 
survey in 2009 to gather insights from various stakeholders’ perspectives. s ince then, corporate sustainability agendas 
have further evolved, new topics were put on corporate  
radars and existing topics became less or more important for our stakeholders and for Ball’s future success. We are con -
4 
Why does sustainability matter to you as Ball’s CFO 
and what do you consider to be major challenges for Ball in creating long-term shared value?
“As CFO of our company I want to be involved in Ball’s 
sustainability efforts. While my initial interest focused on the cost saving aspect of it, it quickly became clear that sustainability includes many activities important to our company including risk reduction, reporting requirements, innovation and talent management –  
all of which contribute to our triple bottom line.  
Take water as an example. If Ball, our suppliers or  
our customers will find it increasingly difficult to operate in certain areas of the world in the future because of water scarcity issues, I want to know  
about that. A challenge for us today is that we have  
to better link our sustainability related performance with financial metrics.”CFO Perspective
Scott Morrison
Senior Vice President  
and Chief Financial Officer  Ball Corporationtinually evaluating our sustainability priorities and aligning 
our approach and our sustainability reporting accordingly.
one major area that has become more important for many 
companies during this reporting period is supply chain sus -
tainability. While Ball has cooperated with its suppliers on various sustainability-related initiatives for decades, we are now putting a stronger emphasis on better understanding our suppliers’ sustainability management and performance. Where we are on this journey today and where we want to  go is described on pages 24/25.
our corporate sustainability priorities are innovation,  
operations, talent management, recycling, supply chain  
and community. t he progress we have achieved during  
the 2010/2011 reporting period and our 2012/2013 goals  
for each corporate and operational priority can be found at  
the beginning of each chapter of this report. While we have aligned the content of this report according to our sustain -
ability priorities, other topics that our stakeholders and Ball identified as being secondary, but still relevant for our company, are covered in our online reporting. Ball’s latest sustainability materiality matrix can also be found online.
 
Sustainability Governance  
and Risk Management
our company culture has always been based on the highest  
level of integrity and ethical conduct. a ll Ball employees are 
required to understand and act according to our corporate values and our corporate compliance policies and proce -
dures outlined in Ball’s business ethics booklet. 
 
Ball’s s ustainability s teering Committee,  composed of 
corporate and operations executives, ensures that sustain -
ability is fully aligned with and integrated into our strategies, as well as balanced with stakeholder expectations. 
 
in an increasingly volatile and uncertain global economy, 
risk management has become a major focus of our sustain -
ability efforts. We use a systematic approach to identify, assess and develop risk management plans in each of our businesses. t his approach is based on a comprehensive  
risk management map process that encompasses our  
major risk themes – supply chain, commodity and currency volatility, human capital, financial risk and legislative ac -
tion. s ustainability issues addressed within this framework 
include risks related to natural resources or the potential for government regulations related to packaging. r isk maps are 
reviewed regularly with board of director committees and updated throughout the year.Waste Generation 20 11
 Our Sustainability Priorities
Water Waste VOCs SafetyOperational
Priorities(Big 6)Supply
ChainRecycling InnovationCorporat e
Priorities
Operation s Comm unity Talent
Managem ent
Electricity Gas
5innovation
Priority in Action 
the s uomi n ational p olar-orbiting p artnership ( npp ) mission is the bridge between the 
nation’s e arth o bserving s ystem satellites and the next generation Joint p olar s atellite 
system. s uomi npp will help scientists understand and monitor our environment on 
earth and also provide vital near-term weather data to meteorologists.
polar-orbit satellites contribute essential information for national forecasts, severe 
weather warnings, search and rescue operations, military contingency planning and 
environmental monitoring. s uomi npp provides nasa the tools to continue its long 
record of environmental monitoring.
Ball a erospace designed and built the s uomi npp satellite bus, the o zone m apping 
and p rofiler s uite instrument, integrated all instruments, and performed satellite-level 
testing and launch support. t he s uomi npp spacecraft bus is the eighth spacecraft  
built by Ball a erospace utilizing a common satellite platform. i n all, this design has 
more than 50 years of successful on-orbit operations. s uomi npp successfully launched 
october 28, 2011.By introducing product innovations and embracing new technologies, we create new value  
opportunities for our customers and ourselves. This drives profitable growth and reduces  the environmental footprint of our products.
2010/2011 Progress Highlights
• Developed processes to integrate recycled aluminum 
in slug manufacturing ( real™)
• installed second a lumi- tek® line to manufacture 
reclosable aluminum bottles
• launched “ suomi npp ” satellite (see below)
2012/2013 Goal Highlights
• market launch of r eal slugs and cans in major markets
• reduce our aluminum use by about 6,800 metric tons 
in our n orth a merican beverage operations, saving 
approximately 75,200 metric tons of C o2 equivalents 
(assuming stable production volumes)
• launch of the “ operational l and i mager” satellite 
to obtain data and imagery to be used in agriculture, 
education, business, science and government
Many successful product and process innovations, such  
as lightweighting our containers or increasing manu -
facturing speeds, have provided economic benefits to us, 
our customers and consumers. m any of these innovations  
are invisible to the consumer. Ball has also developed numerous packaging innovations designed to appeal to and add convenience or functional benefits for consumers. For example, Ball’s reclosable a lumi- tek bottle, experienced 
significant growth since we introduced it in 2008. i n 2011, 
we installed a second production line to keep up with the rapid growth of this innovative package, creating approxi -
mately 40 new jobs in g olden, Colorado.
Because innovation is critical to growing our business 
and assisting our customers grow theirs, we work closely with customers and suppliers to identify and develop ideas to improve our products. We evaluate innovations through multiple lenses, including resource requirements, costs and the impact of product innovations on the recycling process. sustainability has become increasingly important to our  
customers and consumers over the past decade. We believe this development favors lightweight, durable, infinitely  recyclable aluminum and steel packaging.
 
ReAl: A New World for Recycled Material
in 2010, Ball acquired two aluminum slug manufacturing facili -
ties in n orth a merica, becoming the world’s largest producer  
of aluminum slugs. t hese metal disks are impact extruded to 
produce packaging for products such as aerosol body sprays or beer. Ball also acquired a joint venture slug facility and three extruded aluminum packaging facilities in e urope in 2011.
at that time, almost all aluminum slugs in the world were 
produced from virgin aluminum containing no recycled  
material. During 2011, Ball leveraged its global metal  
packaging platform and extensive packaging expertise to develop a technology innovation that allows the use of  
recycled material in the manufacture of slugs.
the resulting new metal alloy exhibits increased strength 
and enables Ball to lightweight its extruded aluminum  
6As one of Ball’s largest customers in Asia, and a 
company that is strongly involved in sustainability, what do you expect from Ball with respect to packaging innovations?
Packaging innovation is one of the most important 
elements in Tsingtao Beer’s brand strategy, which emphasizes energy and style as well as heritage and intrigue. Successful innovation not only provides a refreshing, distinctive consumer experience but also maximizes the benefits of economic, social and environmental sustainability. Ball understands our need to link innovation with sustainability progress in Asia. We look forward to working closely with Ball’s innovation team to continue our “win-win” partnership.Customer  Perspective
Jimmy Yu Jiaping
Vice President of  
Corporate Purchasing 
Brewing Operation GroupTsingtao Brewing Company
GLOBAL INVE STMENT
IN ENERGY EFFICIENCY
MEASURES IN2010/2011:
$12 M7 PL ANTS IMPROVED
WATER USE EFFICIENCY  
IN 20 11 BY MORE 
THAN:
10%PLANTS THAT  SENT 
ZERO WASTE TO 
LANDFILL IN 20 11:
127,000METRIC  TONS  OF C02 
SAVED BY CONVERSION 
TO CDL END IN THE  
U.S. ALONE :
13aerosol packaging by as much as 10 percent, with further 
lightweighting expected in the future. We are excited about real and will bring this new solution to our customers 
around the world in 2012 and beyond.
 
Lightweighting
lightweighting – making the lightest container possible 
while still meeting the performance requirements of our customers and consumers – has always been a cornerstone of our approach to innovation. t hroughout the value chain, 
we significantly reduce costs, energy and emissions by using less metal in our containers. We conduct life cycle assess -
ments ( lCa) for our products in major markets. We know from 
these lCas that taking weight out of containers is one of the 
two main levers to reduce the environmental footprint  
of our packaging.
our steel food cans have become 33 percent lighter in the 
past 25 years. a nd during our 43-year history of manufac -
turing beverage cans, we have worked with our suppliers  
to reduce the weight of cans. For example, 12-ounce  
beverage cans are 40 percent lighter today than they  
were in the 1970s.
even very small lightweighting improvements save  
significant amounts of metal when multiplied by the billions of containers Ball produces annually. i n 2011, we finished the 
conversion of our end lines in n orth a merica to the lighter-
weight CD l end. t his conversion saves more than 11,500 tons 
of aluminum annually in the u .s., equivalent to more than 
127,000 metric tons of C o2 or 
removing approximately  25,000 cars from the road.
Bisphenol-A (BPA)
almost all aluminum and steel 
beverage and food cans use epoxy-based coatings as a barrier between the metal and the products in the can. t hese coatings have been used in cans for decades. e poxy-based 
coatings utilize B pa in the adhesive that attaches the  
coating to the can.
regulatory agencies in the u nited s tates, Canada, e urope, 
Japan, a ustralia and n ew Zealand have stated that scientific 
evidence has consistently shown these coatings to be safe.  
in march 2012, the u .s. Food & Drug a dministration said  
that there is no compelling scientific evidence to justify  
new restrictions on B pa. nevertheless, public discussion  
continues and Ball recognizes that significant interest exists in  
non-epoxy-based coatings. Ball continues to proactively work with suppliers and customers on alternative coatings that  
ensure that the can remains the safest form of rigid packaging in the world. i n limited cases, Ball is supplying food cans that 
use a non-epoxy-based coating suitable for less acidic products.
Aerospace
Ball a erospace develops groundbreaking and innovative 
spacecraft, sensors, systems and components that provide critical climate and environmental data to assist policy  makers in decision making. Ball has developed technology that helps scientists to better understand our planet’s  atmosphere, ice mass, oceans, clouds and wind and that  allows for precise mapping of the e arth. Key scientific  
discoveries about climate change and its effects on the e arth 
relied significantly on instruments and spacecraft built by Ball a erospace.
Waste Generation 20 11
(pounds per can)Average Weight of U. S. 12- oz. Aluminum Can
.1.048
1970.041
1980.035
1990 2000.030.029
2012.000.020.030.040.050100%
60%
.010
7operations : EnERG y
Priority in Action 
the engineering team at our o akdale, California, plant successfully 
completed a compressor system upgrade. During this $500,000  
capital project, four old compressors were replaced with two new  
300 horsepower machines. o ne of the new compressors can adjust to  
plant compressed air demand. t hrough this project the plant realizes 
annual electricity savings of more than 1.25 million kilowatt hours, and 
qualified for a rebate by the regional utility company. t he project also 
significantly reduced annual maintenance costs.
in addition, the plant implemented several measures in 2011 to capture 
the heat generated by its regenerative thermal oxidizer ( rto ). the system 
takes some of the exhaust air from the rto and blends it with fresh air to get a consistent air temperature that is fed back to ovens to reduce the amount of gas that they consume. t he system also captures exhaust heat  
to heat the building in the winter.By implementing energy management systems and leveraging our know-how and 
technological expertise, we continue to increase energy efficiency in our processes.  
This maximizes the value of our operations and reduces our corporate carbon footprint.
2010/2011 Progress Highlights
• improved energy efficiency by 6.2 percent in our  
can businesses, by 10 percent in our slug business  
and by 16.3 percent in our aerospace business
• exceeded our 10-year, 16 percent greenhouse  
gas emission reduction goal by achieving an  
18 percent reduction at the end of 2010  
(compared to 2002 baseline)
2012/2013 Goal Highlights
• improve energy efficiency by 5.1 percent in our can 
businesses, by 1.3 percent in our slug business  
and maintain growth below 2.3 percent in our 
aerospace business
• reduce global greenhouse gas emissions by  
10 percent by 2015 (2010 baseline)
To significantly and cost effectively reduce our energy  
consumption, we developed a global energy strategy in 
2011. i t addresses energy supply and demand and requires 
the consideration of energy efficiency when making invest -
ment decisions.  
our can businesses accounted for 89 percent of our total 
energy consumption in 2011. i n these businesses, we mea -
sure our energy efficiency on a per unit of production basis. We improved energy efficiency by 6.2 percent during 2010 and 2011. i n our slug and aerospace businesses, we also 
achieved significant energy efficiency improvements of  10 percent and more.  
 A Multifaceted Approach
During 2010 and 2011, we implemented projects in all of our global operations to increase energy efficiency and decrease costs and greenhouse gas ( ghg ) emissions. t hese efforts  
included educational measures, optimizing machinery and processes as well as capital investment projects, such as replacing older equipment with more energy efficient units.
Ball invested approximately $12 million in energy savings 
projects during the reporting period. t hese measures will 
result in estimated annual electricity savings of more than  
40 million kilowatt hours and annual natural gas savings  
of approximately 64 million kilowatt hours. t hese savings  
exceed the annual energy consumption of an average  
three-line beverage can plant or more than 3,000 average u.s. households. 
While our energy performance has significantly improved 
over the reporting period, we also recognize that changes in our businesses can negatively impact the energy efficiency of our operations. t hose developments included new line 
startups in our Belgrade, s erbia, 
and Fort Worth, t exas, plants in 
2011; increasing the variety of can sizes and shapes we pro -
duce; and curtailing operations in some plants, which reduced utilization and efficiency.
as a global company, we 
benefit greatly from exchanging 
GLOBAL INVE STMENT
IN ENERGY EFFICIENCY
MEASURES IN2010/2011:
$12 M7 PL ANTS IMPROVED
WATER USE EFFICIENCY  
IN 20 11 BY MORE 
THAN:
10%PLANTS THAT  SENT 
ZERO WASTE TO 
LANDFILL IN 20 11:
127,000METRIC  TONS  OF C02 
SAVED BY CONVERSION 
TO CDL END IN THE  
U.S. ALONE :
13
8information and best practices among our 62 manufacturing 
locations.   membership in programs, such as the  
u.s. environmental p rotection a gency’s “ energy s tar” and 
the Department of e nergy’s “Better Buildings, Better p lants, ” 
provide further tools and technical resources to enhance our efforts and allow us to learn from other organizations.
Energy Management
We significantly improved energy data measurement and reporting capabilities during the reporting period. a t the end 
of 2011, we had comprehensive energy information systems (eis) installed in 13 plants, which enable us to better under -
stand and manage the energy consuming processes in our operations and improve total system performance. o ther 
plants are realizing significant energy savings using smaller scope energy monitoring. We will install additional energy monitoring devices in our operations going forward.
one focus area for improvement during the reporting 
period was line control optimization. When production lines stand still for a short period of time, not all of the equipment has to run on full power. By installing equipment that allows slowing or shutting down certain systems, such as variable-frequency drives ( vFD) that control the speed of motors and 
pumps, we realize energy savings.
Employee Awareness and Engagement
in all our facilities, Ball employees focus on energy effi -
ciency. s everal Ball plants started formal voluntary energy 
conservation or broader sustainability teams during the reporting period. o ur s aratoga s prings, n ew y ork, and Weißenthurm, g ermany, plants have been actively  
engaged in energy efficiency for more than a decade. t heir 
commitment to develop and test new ideas contributed to maximizing the value of our existing businesses.
Machinery and Equipment
in an aluminum beverage can manufacturing plant,  
between 20 and 30 percent of the overall electricity used  
is consumed by air compressors. We conduct audits of  
our compressed air systems, reduce system pressure, minimize wasteful air uses and leaks, regulate volume and pressure and reduce demand by manufacturing equipment to optimize performance. t wenty-one of our metal beverage  
packaging plants worldwide now use dual air systems  
that supply equipment with either high or low pressure air to reduce energy use and costs.
in north a merica, a sia and e urope, we replaced eight  
older compressors with more energy efficient models  during the reporting period, sometimes replacing  
high-pressure compressors with low-pressure units at the  same time. t hese investments of approximately $2 million 
will save 6.2 million kilowatt hours of electricity per year, which corresponds to approximately 4,300 metric tons  of Co2 emissions.
ovens can account for up to 75 percent of a beverage  
can plant’s natural gas use and up to 20 percent of  
electricity use. We typically use ovens after washing and  
applying coatings and inks so that the containers can  
be further processed. During the reporting period, Ball  
Lighting
Employee Awareness
Machinery & Equipment
Heating & Cooling
Heat Recovery
Energy ManagementEnergy Efficiency: Six Focus Areas at Ball
9operations : EnERGy
Priority in Action
Building on the experiences from the construction of the t res r ios, Brazil, can 
plant in 2009/2010, l atapack-Ball started to build another plant in a lagoinhas, 
Brazil, in a pril 2011. During the design stage of this new plant, l atapack-Ball and 
Ball engineers from n orth a merica included energy efficiency as a priority.
the design of the production line was optimized to reduce the need for conveying, 
piping and other infrastructure. We also significantly reduced the need for vacuum 
and compressed air by making better use of mechanical power and gravity to move cans along the line. a s a result, 36 fewer motors were installed throughout the 
plant, as compared to previously-built plants. a n energy information system will 
allow for continuous monitoring and improvement of energy use.
all large motors are equipped with variable-frequency drives and sensing equipment so that when cans are not being 
transported, the motors slow down. t he outstanding performance of the compressed air system from the t res r ios plant was 
copied with even less piping installed. i n early 2012, the a lagoinhas plant was in the process of applying for lee D certification, 
a concise framework for implementing green building design solutions. 
  receiving this certification would reward the work 
that was performed to make a lagoinhas one of the most energy efficient can plants in the world.
engineers developed several innovative approaches to  
reduce the energy consumption of ovens. We also perfor- med oven audits in all of our e uropean beverage can plants,  
identifying opportunities to substantially reduce gas  
consumption. We are committed to execute related  projects in 2012 and expect to realize natural gas savings  of approximately 10 million kilowatt hours per year, equiva -
lent to approximately 1,900 metric tons of C o2 emissions.
Ball a erospace accounts for only 2 percent of Ball’s  
energy consumption, but optimization of energy use is a high priority for this business. o ne of the major areas of energy 
use occurs in cleanroom operations. t hese are rooms  
where the level of environmental pollutants such as dust  and microbes is reduced to allow for the manufacture and  testing of sensitive aerospace instruments and other tech -
nologies. During the reporting period, we installed v FDs to 
control the operation of supply fan motors within one of the larger cleanrooms. t he estimated reduction in electricity is 
approximately 277,400 kilowatt hours per year, equivalent to more than 190 metric tons of C o2 emissions. 
Heating and Cooling
heating, ventilation and air conditioning ( hva C) control 
during the heating season has been identified as another energy efficiency opportunity. Central control systems and higher awareness of hva C-related energy usage and costs 
are driving progress. We identify optimal temperatures for different areas within a plant and educate employees on how these temperatures can be achieved with the lowest energy input. t he installation of heat curtains, for example, 
reduces heat or cooling loss.
Heat Recovery
a regenerative thermal oxidizer ( rto ) is a pollution control 
system that uses high temperatures to destroy volatile  
organic compounds emitted during can coating processes.   
rto s normally operate on natural gas. When Ball bought the 
Fort a tkinson, Wisconsin, metal beverage can plant in 2009, 
the plant’s heat recovery system did not operate efficiently. i n 
2010, Ball invested more than $300,000 to install additional 
Waste Generation 20 11
(in billion kilowatt hours)Energ y Consu mption
3.36
20073.27
20083.07
2009 20103.223.37
20110.01.02.53.03.5100%
0.51.52.0
Cans Plastics Slugs Extruded aluminum packaging Aerospace90%
88%
normalized values of different product groups 
10Priority in Action 
since 1974, Famosa, the leading supplier of aluminum cans in m exico, 
has licensed Ball Corporation’s manufacturing technologies. a n initial, 
metric-based benchmark survey between both companies identified ways 
for Famosa to use energy more efficiently and reduce costs.
in late 2010, Ball visited Famosa’s plant in t oluca to conduct an in-depth 
energy assessment and to exchange information with engineers from all three Famosa plants. t he major suggestions that our energy experts 
provided to Famosa were low or no cost measures covering areas such as compressed air, vacuum, operational control, lighting and ovens. t he 
overall identified potential energy savings added up to approximately  12 percent of the plants’ energy use. By increasing employee awareness 
and with an investment of less than $200,000, Famosa was able to realize significant energy savings.
in october 2011, a team from Famosa visited a Ball plant for further benchmarking and exchanging of ideas. Ball 
recommended conducting oven audits in m exico with a supplier that had worked with Ball. a Ball engineer attended one  
of these audits in e nsenada, m exico, in n ovember 2011 and gained several insights that will also benefit Ball’s operations.
controls and replaced ineffective heat recovery coils. t his 
system is used today to heat water in the production process, 
as well as to heat the plant itself. t he system reduces the 
plant’s natural gas use by approximately 8 million kilowatt hours per year.
Lighting
Ball continues to replace old lighting with energy efficient lighting. o ur plant in s henzhen, China, for example,  
replaced 450-watt ceiling lighting with equally bright  
180-watt lamps, saving 460,000 kilowatt hours annually.
Reducing our Corporate Carbon Footprint
in 2004, Ball committed to reduce global direct and indirect 
greenhouse gas emissions by 16 percent by 2012, using 2002 as a baseline. 
  at the end of 2010, we had exceeded that 
goal and reduced our global ghg emissions by 18 percent.
We remain committed to reducing our corporate  
carbon footprint. t hat is why Ball developed a new ghg  
reduction goal: by 2015, we will reduce our global ghg  
emissions by 10 percent compared to a 2010 baseline.    
our primary effort to reduce ghg emissions has so far 
been directed toward increasing energy efficiency. h owever, 
Ball is also exploring cost-effective ways to use renewable energy. For example, we are investigating the installation of a 1 megawatt windmill at our Fairfield, California, plant that is projected to account for up to 9 percent of the plant’s annual electricity use.
since 2007, we have disclosed our ghg emissions annu -
ally as part of the Carbon Disclosure p roject. 
 
 
You analyzed innovative strategies for Ball to develop 
energy-self-sufficient plants. Based on your insights, what do you consider to be major challenges for Ball so we can significantly enhance energy efficiency?
Half of the energy demand at Ball’s beverage can 
plants is supplied by natural gas, used mainly by ovens after washing and decorating. Our team has identified measures for improving the energy efficiency of curing, reducing the energy consumption by about 80 percent. One of the major remaining steps is the reduction  
of the discharged air. In the long-term, Ball should evaluate using infrared drying or UV-curing inks,  
which can lead to significant energy savings by  
requiring less heat for drying.
Another huge opportunity involves applying several 
efficiency measures at compressors, which can reduce the electricity demand by 50 percent (pressure loss, leaks, intake temperature, filter, engines). About 60 percent of the waste heat from the compressors can be used for other processes. In the long-term, Ball should consider replacing compressed air with electro-mechanical drives, which can reduce energy demand by 80 percent.Scientist Perspective
Prof. Dr. Udo Gieseler
Fachhochschule Dortmund, 
University of Applied  
Sciences and Arts, Germany
11operations : WATER
Priority in Action 
our Williamsburg, v irginia, plant installed water meters at its three 
washers in 2010 and made water conservation a priority. Water data is 
evaluated on a daily basis and ambitious water reduction goals have been set. t he plant’s Chief Chemical m aintainer and the e ngineering m anager 
have become the water champions at the plant and implemented several measures to reduce water consumption. they started educating colleagues 
about water-related risks and opportunities in the manufacturing process. By installing the right tools and explaining how minor adjustments to  
the plant’s various water-intensive processes can save thousands of gallons of water, employees became engaged in the plant’s water conservation efforts.
as a result, plant water usage was reduced by more than 42 percent 
per unit of production compared to a 2009 baseline, while not affecting the quality of our products. Water metering and employee engagement in Williamsburg improved water management considerably and saved almost 79,600 cubic meters  of water in 2011.By measuring and better understanding water use in our operations, we drive efficiencies in 
our processes and protect the environment. This minimizes risks related to water-stressed situations that could affect business continuity for Ball and partners in our supply chain.
2010/2011 Progress Highlights
• improved water efficiency by 0.8 percent in our  
can businesses, by 39 percent in our slug business 
and by 12 percent in our a erospace business
• installed electronic water meters at main consuming 
equipment in our n orth a merican beverage  
can operations
2012/2013 Goal Highlights
• improve water efficiency by 7.2 percent in our can 
businesses, by 6.1 percent in our slug business, by  
11.1 percent in our extruded aluminum packaging business and maintain 0 percent growth in our aerospace business
Access to fresh water is vital for consumers, our custom -
ers, our suppliers and Ball. From a product lifecycle  
perspective, the vast majority of water used to produce 
canned beverages and food is used in metal manufacturing and some of the products that are put into our packaging.  
that is why we discuss water-related risks and opportunities 
with our suppliers and customers.
Ball’s major use of water is in beverage can manufacturing. 
at our offices and in our aerospace, metal food and aerosol 
packaging and slug manufacturing businesses, water is only used for cooling, cleaning, irrigation, cafeterias and restrooms.
in 2011, Ball used 6.16 million cubic meters of water world -
wide. o ur can businesses used 93 percent of the total, or 5.7 million cubic meters. During the reporting period, these businesses improved their water efficiency, measured on  a per unit of production basis, by 0.8 percent, aiming for a  7.2 percent improvement during 2012 and 2013.
Ball operates some facilities in regions where water 
scarcity has been, or may become, an issue within the next decade – including parts of China, s outh a merica, the  
united s tates and e urope. i n most cases, however, water 
supply has not been a large cost factor for our plants.  
this has sometimes resulted in inefficient usage in the  
past. We are aware of the risks that absence of clean water poses to people and businesses and are committed to  
Waste Generation 20 11
(in million cubic meters )Water Consumpt ion
5.77
20075.57
20085.21
2009 20105.736.16
20110.02.05.06.07.0
1.03.04.0
Cans Plastics Slugs Extruded aluminum packaging Aerospace100%
94%
61%74%
normalized values of different product groups 
12Why is investors’ interest in water-related risks and 
opportunities continuously growing and what do you consider to be a major water-related challenge for the packaging industry?
With predictions of a 30 percent global population increase 
by 2050, and a potential tripling in the size of the global economy over the same time period, demand for water will likely only increase. Yet over-abstraction, increasing pollution and the increasing concern over climate change are putting pressure on water supply. This disparity means that, at a global level, water demand is likely to materially exceed sustainable supply by 2030, giving rise to serious macro and micro economic issues.
These issues will have implications for the packaging 
industry throughout its value chain: from production, where water management strategies should focus on reducing costs, through water use efficiency improvements and pollution reduction, to the disposal of production waste and the prevention of pollutants leaching into water resources. As investors, we evaluate environmental, social and governance standards as part of our investment process, recognizing that related risks and opportunities that a company faces and manages have relevance for our investment thesis.Investor Perspective
Paal Klykken
Equity Analyst
Schroder Investment  
Management  
North America Inc.continuously optimizing water management in our facilities 
and to pursuing water-related opportunities.
Improving Water Use and Efficiency
Ball’s most water-intensive process is washing our cans during manufacturing. o n average, washers account for 
about two thirds of the total water consumption in a beverage can plant. t o create efficiencies, Ball’s washer process  
occurs in counter-current cascades to reuse water at dif -
ferent washing stages. t o better understand, monitor and 
improve our water use, Ball is investing in water monitoring equipment and installing new water metering. By early  2012, for example, all washers in our n orth a merican and 
european beverage can plants were equipped with water 
meters. e nhanced water monitoring increases the visibility 
of water consumption, fosters employee awareness and enables us to better understand and optimize our systems.
in addition, we appointed local water champions in  
several plants. t hese employees analyze water data, control 
water-consuming equipment and drive enhancements. While our goal is to reduce water consumption as much as possible,  
we must also diligently monitor the quality of produced cans.  
if we reduce the water intake of washers too much, the  
quality of our cans is affected and spoilage increases.
overall, seven plants increased water efficiency by  
10 percent or more in 2011. t his was achieved by constant 
monitoring, employee engagement, washer setting opti -
mizations and by recycling water within our processes. our plant in h ermsdorf, g ermany, for example, invested 
$75,000 to install new equipment to reuse more water  
in the washing process. t his project saves 12,800 cubic  
meters of water per year, which is approximately 8 percent of the plant’s annual water consumption.
in argentina, Ball operates two aerosol can plants.  
these facilities do not use water in the production process. 
however, our employees combined the installation of new 
water meters that allow for daily monitoring with a training program about the responsible use of water. t hese measures 
significantly raised employee awareness and resulted in a  
55 percent reduction in the plant’s annual water use in 2011.
Treating Wastewater 
On-Site
By reducing water use in our 
plants, we also reduce the amount of wastewater we handle in our own wastewater treatment systems. t hese 
systems remove contaminants in the wastewater before we release it to the sewage system. t hree of our plants in a sia 
upgraded their wastewater treatment systems during the reporting period. For example, our h ubei plant added a  
biological treatment process, building on the experience  
we gained at other plants. t his upgrade enables our  
facilities in China to go above and beyond compliance.
an opportunity for water recycling is the use of  
effluent water from our wastewater treatment systems to mix lime water. We use lime slurries in some of our wastewater treatment units as a neutralizing agent and to bind suspended solids before we release water to sewage systems. By using water from the washer for mixing lime slurries, we can save on average 1,000 cubic meters of water per plant annually.
GLOBAL INVE STMENT
IN ENERGY EFFICIENCY
MEASURES IN2010/2011:
$12 M7 PL ANTS IMPROVED
WATER USE EFFICIENCY  
IN 20 11 BY MORE 
THAN:
10%PLANTS THAT  SENT 
ZERO WASTE TO 
LANDFILL IN 20 11:
127,000METRIC  TONS  OF C02 
SAVED BY CONVERSION 
TO CDL END IN THE  
U.S. ALONE :
13
13operations : WASTE
Priority in Action 
in 2006, Ball a erospace established a multi-functional team to evaluate and select 
a recycler for electronic waste (e-waste). i t became clear that a local company 
from Colorado, where 82 percent of Ball a erospace’s employees are located, was 
aligned closely with Ball’s expectations regarding environmental management 
and went beyond compliance in its business practices. g uaranteed r ecycling 
Xperts ( grX) was one of very few companies that committed to following the  
Basel a greement, which prohibits the shipment of e-waste to countries overseas.
in 2007, Ball nominated gr X for the Colorado e nvironmental l eadership 
program ( elp), which recognizes companies that voluntarily go beyond 
compliance and are committed to continual improvement. gr X received the  
award and went on to implement an environmental management system that made them eligible for the highest tier of the elp program.
partnering with m etech, a company that merged with gr X in 2009, has been 
a success story for both Ball a erospace and m etech. s ince 2006, Ball a erospace has shipped almost 200 metric tons of 
e-waste to m etech, including 26 metric tons in 2011.By managing our waste streams effectively and sharing best practices, we reduce the amount  
of waste we generate and increase the percentage of recycling. As a result, we make best use  of all incoming materials and maximize value creation.
2010/2011 Progress Highlights
• aligned waste reporting globally according to seven 
waste categories
• reduced waste to landfill in n orth a merica by  
18 percentage points, exceeding our goal of 10 points
• reduced waste to landfill in our e uropean beverage 
can business by 58 percent; with that, only 1.6 percent 
of all waste was sent to landfills in 2011
• added seven plants to our zero waste to landfill list: 
globally 13 out of 62 plants were zero waste to landfill by the end of 2011
2012/2013 Goal Highlights
• reduce waste to landfill by another 10 percentage 
points, increase recycling by 10 percentage points and add 10 more facilities to our zero waste to landfill list in north a merica
• reduce total waste generated per unit of production in 
our e uropean beverage can business by 10 percent
Material use and waste volumes are important yardsticks 
used to evaluate the efficiency of our processes.  
reducing spoilage in our manufacturing processes and 
recycling all metal production scrap are the most obvious strategies that Ball employs to conserve resources and to generate additional revenue. a pproximately 87 percent of the 
total waste generated by Ball is metal manufacturing scrap. all of that scrap is sent back to our suppliers and is remelted 
to be reused in new metal applications. We are focusing our waste management efforts on reducing the remaining waste streams, which totaled 43,766 metric tons globally in 2011.
accurate and consistent data regarding waste generation, 
waste types and disposal methods are required to system-  
atically assess waste streams site-by-site and to define waste reduction programs. t his allows us to identify a number of 
levers which will further reduce the total amount of waste  
we generate and increase the percentage that is recycled.
Reducing Waste, Increasing Recycling
in our packaging and aerospace businesses, we are working 
toward reducing the total amount of waste we generate and recycling as much waste as possible by diverting it from less beneficial streams such as landfill and waste-to-energy. i n 
2011, we recycled 48 percent of our total waste globally. t o 
achieve further improvements, we educate our employees about the benefits of recycling, provide convenient recycling infrastructure in our facilities and cultivate a resource  conservation mindset.
Minimizing Waste to Landfill
By the end of 2011, 13 of our 62 manufacturing plants sent zero waste to landfill. t his is an increase of seven plants 
since 2009. t wenty-five percent of the total amount of 
waste that Ball generated in 2011 was sent to landfills. Diverting waste from landfills is particularly challenging in regions where costs for disposal in landfills are low and recy -
cling options are limited. o ur long-term goal is to minimize  
the amount of waste sent to landfill whenever it is  
14Resource conservation and climate protection are 
ranked high on the political agenda. What do you consider to be a major challenge for more effective waste management in businesses?
There is an increasing awareness of the resource 
constraints which all businesses face in the current economic climate. Businesses need to become more resource self-sufficient with more emphasis on preventing waste and increasing recycling. In the long term, we want to ensure that all wastes are seen as a resource. This may involve completely reviewing and redesigning their business models and working methods.
The biggest challenges for businesses will come from 
the need to change current business models, work with customers to ensure that supply chains become more sustainable and to encourage a move towards longer-life  
products with emphasis on such things as leasing or refurbishment rather than buying new. Businesses will  
also need to rethink the types of materials used, and how they are used to enable better design for disassembly and closed loop recycling.Government Representative 
Perspective
John Griffiths
Welsh Minister of  
State for the Environmentenvironmentally sound and 
economically feasible.
Ball engaged a by-products 
solutions provider in 2008  to identify, track and effectively manage all waste streams  in our n orth a merican facili -
ties. a s a result, we identified  
numerous ways to reduce our 
environmental footprint and turn waste into an economic  advantage. i n our n orth a merican metal beverage packaging 
business, we have reduced waste to landfill from 55 percent in 2008 to 29 percent in 2011. a t the same time, we increased 
the amount recycled from 15 percent to 54 percent.
the solutions provider has also been instrumental in  
diverting filtercake from landfills. Filtercake, which is generated in the course of wastewater treatment, is the largest waste stream by weight in our aluminum beverage can plants. i t accounts for up to 59 percent of a plant’s total 
waste. t oday, eight of our 20 n orth a merican beverage can 
plants send their filtercake to beneficial reuse sites, such as commercial composting facilities. t hrough this program 
alone, we were able to remove 4,471 metric tons from  
landfills during the reporting period. We use savings from other waste optimization programs to partially offset the  
additional costs for diverting filtercake from landfills.
Rethinking Waste Management
numerous locally driven, innovative waste programs were  
introduced at our facilities in 2010 and 2011. o ur plants in 
Wrexham, u nited Kingdom, and Bierne, France, reduced 
the total amount of waste per unit produced by 30 percent or more. t his was achieved mainly by implementing a more 
effective separation technology for an oil-water mix that we previously had to dispose of in full. With the new separation, more of the clean water can be discharged as trade effluent and the oil is recycled for blending as heating oil. o ther Ball 
plants are now adopting this practice.
one of the cost components of waste disposal and recy -
cling is transportation, which includes fuel, equipment and labor charges. m any of our plants operate owned or leased 
compactors and balers to move shrink wrap, strapping,  paperboard and other material out of the general refuse waste stream. We sell this material to partially offset the  disposal cost.
accordingly, there are more trips made from Ball facilities 
with material that has value and fewer with material for which we must pay disposal fees. o ne example is our Baltimore, 
maryland, plant, which sent its last load of general refuse to 
landfill in the fall of 2010. a ll of the general refuse from the 
plant is now stored in a waste compactor on-site until it is sent to an incinerator to be burned as fuel. t his success was  
possible because of the plant’s concerted effort to remove all recyclables from the general refuse waste stream.GLOBAL INVE STMENT
IN ENERGY EFFICIENCY
MEASURES IN2010/2011:
$12 M7 PL ANTS IMPROVED
WATER USE EFFICIENCY  
IN 20 11 BY MORE 
THAN:
10%PLANTS THAT  SENT 
ZERO WASTE TO 
LANDFILL IN 20 11:
127,000METRIC  TONS  OF C02 
SAVED BY CONVERSION 
TO CDL END IN THE  
U.S. ALONE :
13
25%
10%53%
12%Recycling /Reuse
Landﬁl lOther W aste
Treatm entEnergy  Recover yWaste Generation 20 11
(total 43,76 6 metric tons)Waste Per Disposal Route ( 2011)
15operations : SAFET y
Priority in Action 
our food and household products packaging plant in h orsham, 
pennsylvania, improved its total recordable incident rate from 5.9 in 2010 
to 2.2 in 2011, a 63 percent reduction. t his was accomplished through 
constant communication about safety philosophy and goals, regular safety 
training and through emphasizing accountability and rewarding successes.
the behavior-based safety (BB s) program has been expanded from one 
team to five, with BB s meetings held on each crew every month. t eam 
members are trained in hazard recognition and BB s, and perform regular 
safety observations of their peers. a dditionally, each month a supervisor 
takes a safety walk with an hourly employee to identify potential hazards. employee participation in BB s is a very large part of the plant’s safety success.
in addition, the plant invested in technology that enables employees in a crew meeting to provide instant feedback by casting 
a vote on questions about safety progress or culture. t his participatory system has allowed the plant to further understand 
its current safety culture and identify safety improvements for 2012. p lant employees are proud of the improvement they have 
achieved. e veryone in h orsham understands that plant success starts with safety and has committed to being safety leaders.A safe work environment has the highest priority at Ball. Through the commitment of all our 
employees and the use of varied safety tools, we continue to improve our safety performance,  also leading to improved productivity.
2010/2011 Progress Highlights
• reduced total recordable incident rate by 27 percent
• expanded the implementation of formal occupational 
health and safety management systems according to 
ohsas 18001 to all business units except a sia
2012/2013 Goal Highlights
• reduce total recordable incident rate by 15 percent 
each year
• initiate safety culture change process in at least  
six more plants
The health and safety of our employees is essential  
for a growing and sustainable business and ultimately 
impacts our success. We are making strides toward our 
long-term goal of zero work-related incidents and our interim goal continues to be to reduce our total record -
able incident rate (recordable incidents per 200,000 hours worked) by 15 percent year over year. During the reporting period, we achieved a 27 percent reduction. o ut of our  
62 packaging manufacturing locations worldwide,  
10 reported zero recordable accidents in 2011.
Ball has a successful safety performance track record 
with incident rates consistently lower than the metal can manufacturing industry as reported by the u .s. Bureau of 
labor s tatistics. i n 2010, the incident rate for the metal can 
manufacturing industry was 4.9, compared to Ball’s overall rate of 1.7 in 2011.Committed to Continuous Improvement
our commitment to health and safety comes from the  
most senior levels in our company. r eports about safety 
performance and safety management systems are rou -
tinely provided to senior level and executive management. management commitment and active employee engage -
ment are necessary to achieve our safety goals.
Ball directs employees to a global health and safety 
policy 
 and a set of mandatory standards based on the 
international o ccupational h ealth and s afety management 
system standard ohsas 18001.   our health and safety 
management system provides the framework for continuous improvement. t he implementation and effectiveness of  
Waste Generation 20 11
(recordable incidents per 200,000 hours worke d)Total Recordable Inci dent Ra te
.13.90
20073.21
20082.33
2009 20102.25
1.70
20110.001.002.003.004.00100%
44%
16Based on the insights you gained during safety 
audits at Ball, what are the key challenges Ball will have to address in order to become world-class on operational health and safety?
The Ball packaging facilities visited by Bureau Veritas 
Certification (BVC) Lead Auditors in six European countries were found to be extremely well-controlled sites internally and externally – very impressive with clear desire to exceed. This is also reflected in the level of commitment seen on all sites and from all those involved, especially taking into consideration the diverse workforce across the different countries.
Furthermore, there is a clear effort at all sites 
to demonstrate commitment in relation to systems compliance to OHSAS 18001:2007. There is an excellent Safety Record System noted on each site during the  
BVC audits. The challenge is to maintain this record.  
As a result, Ball is on the right path toward becoming a  
world-class company on operational health and safety.Auditor  Perspective
Ali Dincmen
Director, Business  
Development International
Bureau Veritas  
Certificationthe system is regularly checked by means of internal – and 
in many cases external – audits. t he main elements  
of our system include policies, planning, implementation  
and operation, checking and corrective action and  
management review.
Addressing the Challenges
high noise levels, strains and sprains remain major safety 
challenges at Ball. n oise levels can be above 100 decibels  
in some of our operations. i n north a merica, we have intro -
duced a program to determine the most effective hearing protection for each individual employee. engineering con -
trols such as acoustic guarding are among other measures we are installing in our operations to reduce noise levels.
Ball is committed to the well-being of our employees  
by proactively empowering, supporting and engaging all  
employees. t hat is why one of our key efforts to improve 
safety performance is training. We provide health and safety training for our employees and contract workers. t his  
training includes new hire induction and refresher training. affecting the behavior of our employees represents the  
biggest challenge and offers the most opportunity for Ball.
Behavior-Based Safety
eighty percent of all work-related accidents include a  
behavioral component. s ince 2005, we have been using 
behavior-based safety (BB s) methods to prevent unsafe 
behaviors by proactively focusing on existing or potential behaviors that may lead to incidents. We enlist employees at all levels to monitor safe and unsafe behaviors and to report their observations. p lants deploying BB s routinely 
analyze observations made by all employees and implement corrective measures accordingly. t he long-term use of BB s 
programs has been a major contributing factor in improving our safety performance.
Safety Culture Change
through a long-term safety culture change process, we are 
working toward enabling employees to take ownership of their own safety and the safety of others. i nstead of concentrating  
on the technical aspects of safety, such as machinery and 
its use, safety culture change addresses the hidden beliefs, norms and assumptions that govern behavior.
While we have addressed 
safety culture using BB s in our 
plants over the last decade, we began implementing a more targeted process in three n orth american plants in 2011. p lant employees participate in a 
safety culture survey to assess the current safety culture of their plant. t he findings and recommendations are reviewed 
and prioritized by plant employees. i nstead of implementing 
programs developed by higher level management, volun -
tary members of grassroots teams receive training and are empowered to develop solutions and tools to continuously improve safety performance. For example, in our Wallkill,  
new y ork, plant, team employees suggested that salaried 
employees become more involved on the shop floor. t his chal -
lenge was addressed by increasing the presence of salaried employees in the plant and improving communication.
effective safety culture change takes time, so we are gradu -
ally implementing this formal program in our operations. i n 
2012/2013, at least six more n orth a merican plants will start 
the process. We will also develop a similar process for our european operations. a positive side effect of these grassroots 
activities is that motivated young leaders step up and lead the change. t his helps to identify and develop talent at Ball.
ENERGY AND CO2
SAVED BY  RECY CLING
METALS:PERCENT AGE OF OUR
GLOBAL SO URCING 
VOLUME FROM 
COUNTRIES WIT HIN
THE OECD :95%CHARI TABLE DONA TIONS 
WORLD WIDE IN
2010/201 1:
10GLOBAL MANUF ACTURING
OPERA TIONS THAT
REPOR TED ZERO 
RECORDABLE
INCIDENTS  IN 2011: UP TO
~90% $6.5 MPERCENT AGE OF
EMPL OYEES  OUTSIDE
NOR TH AMERICA:
36%
17talent  management  
Priority in Action
since 2010, the Brazilian economy has experienced significant growth. 
as a consequence, competition for talent is intense. l atapack-Ball 
started operations at the t res r ios plant in late 2009, added a second 
production line in mid-2010 and started the construction of a new 
plant in a lagoinhas in 2011. a ttracting and retaining the right people 
has therefore become one of our most important tasks.
We developed multiple talent management programs in 2011. 
For example, 30 management employees were trained in the new “Continuous l eadership Development p rogram. ” each l atapack-Ball 
employee completed an average of 80 hours of training in 2011 – the best practice in Brazil is 62 hours. i n alagoinhas, the 133 new employees reached almost 80,000 total hours of training. We 
also hired five trainees who have the potential to grow into future leadership positions.
as a result of all our talent management efforts, l atapack-Ball was recognized as one of the best 150 Companies to Work 
For in Brazil. t his allows us to attract and retain the best talent and contributed to the achievement of a voluntary turnover 
rate of less than 0.1 percent in 2011.By developing and inspiring great talent at Ball, we create tremendous long-term success 
for our employees, our company and other stakeholders. This in turn enables us to acquire, assess, develop and engage the best talent to help us grow.
2010/2011 Progress Highlights
• Created global talent management function to 
develop and harmonize best practices from across all 
operating divisions within Ball
• Began roll out of a global human resource information 
system that provides consistent tools utilized throughout our operations
• Deployed global talent performance appraisal process 
to identify our best talent around the world and develop plans for their growth
2012/2013 Goal Highlights
• Conduct first global, bi-annual employee  
engagement survey
• Determine and enhance overall employee engagement 
index (monitored via employee engagement survey)
• evaluate employees’ perceptions on our diversity and 
our efforts to create a more diverse and inclusive environment at Ball (monitored via survey)
• Complete roll out of a global human resource 
information system
• Fully deploy an integrated succession planning 
process across each of our businessesBall has made significant progress in the past two years 
related to talent management. For example, we have pulled 
together a team of our people from around the world and engaged them in a discovery and action process to build robust talent management capabilities that are aligned with our Drive for 10 strategy. o ur intent is to acquire, assess, 
develop and engage the best talent in the world to help us grow. a nd we are creating the right systems to support 
these efforts.
While many of our past human resources activities have 
been specific to geographic regions in which we operate and unique to the needs of each business, we now have begun the process of harmonizing our activities globally while recognizing regional differences. We are identifying and adopting best practices both inside and outside of Ball,  developing consistent strategies, and then executing in the most practical way. t his makes our businesses stronger  
in each region while also connecting our community of  talent globally.
since 2010, Ball has taken significant steps to improve  
our company’s talent acquisition, talent development and organizational planning capabilities.
Talent Acquisition
• We have taken a global view toward our on-boarding 
programs in each of our businesses and are harmonizing an approach for getting new employees acclimated culturally and fully engaged more quickly.We believe that developing great talent, aligned with our corporate vision, will create tremendous long-term suc -
cess for our employees, customers, suppliers and sharehold -
ers. o ur goal is clear: we are creating a talent-first organiza -
tion through the global development of programs and people.
18Based on your experiences, what do you consider to 
be major challenges for Ball as we build our talent management capabilities in each of our businesses around the world?
In many organizations fighting the war for talent today, 
leaders are asking themselves a few critical questions that will position them for success in future:
• What is Ball Corporation’s leadership brand and how 
does that definition need to evolve? A clearly defined vision for future leaders will ensure that Ball is among the best in attracting, developing and retaining a diverse and high performing pool of talent.
• Is there a common understanding of the mix of 
skills and experiences future leaders must possess? The diverse makeup of today’s workforce will require Ball to think about this differently, as generational and other differences impact traditional career path approaches.
• Are the capabilities and competencies that have made 
Ball successful the same ones that will get you to where you want to go? Capabilities such as change leadership, innovation and execution are quickly becoming sources of competitive advantage. Successful organizations understand how to leverage their history, while considering how those capabilities need to grow, evolve  
or change – in order to win in the future.Customer  Perspective
• We are developing a  
global employment brand for 
Ball that will support our goal  to become an employer of choice in the regions where  we operate.
• We are developing  
consistent interviewing  
and assessment processes,  
aligned with Ball’s core values, to improve our quality of hiring metrics in all regions.
Talent Development
• We have created a comprehensive framework for  
talent development, with consistent program offerings around the world.
• We have globalized our leadership development  
programs, bringing together teams from e urope, a sia  
and the a mericas.
• We have created an emerging leader program with  
common evaluation criteria and assessment tools to  
identify and develop the next generation of Ball leaders around the world.
• We are building a competency development guide  
to support our core set of Ball competencies globally.
• We are refining our global total rewards philosophy  
to further facilitate talent development and mobility.
Talent/Organizational Planning
• We have harmonized our performance management 
system, utilizing a single set of competencies, a single  
rating system and a single performance appraisal  
tool globally.
• in 2012, we are deploying an integrated succession 
planning and talent review process across each of  
our businesses and major functions, in addition to a  
global talent review. t his process identifies our critical 
roles and major talent risk areas, informs our employee  
development programs and helps define our talent  
acquisition needs.
• We adopted a new global mobility policy and  
framework in 2012 to help us build a more diverse  
pool of leadership talent, with broader international  
experiences, to meet the challenges that lie ahead as  
we continue our global growth.
• We are globalizing our diversity and inclusion efforts  
in a cohesive way and have begun a systematic process  
of leveraging diversity of individuals and teams to unleash ideas and innovation and drive growth at Ball.Diversity and Inclusion
in 2011, a team of emerging employee leaders within Ball’s 
operations around the globe developed a definition of what diversity and inclusion means for our company: “We seek an environment that unlocks the unique qualities, values and potential of each employee – with diverse perspectives,  experiences, competencies, cultures and aspirations – to bring about every individual’s best work.”
We have long believed that the broadest diversity of 
thought produces the best decision making and outcomes. We are beginning a systematic process of leveraging  
the diversity of individuals and teams to unleash ideas,  
innovation and drive growth at Ball. t his is especially  
important as we expand into new markets and geographies, broaden our geographic reach and maximize value in our existing businesses.Stacey Valy  
Panayiotou
Vice President,  
Talent Development &  
Organization Effectiveness
Coca-Cola RefreshmentsENERGY AND CO2
SAVED BY  RECY CLING
METALS:PERCENT AGE OF OUR
GLOBAL SO URCING 
VOLUME FROM 
COUNTRIES WIT HIN
THE OECD :95%CHARI TABLE DONA TIONS 
WORLD WIDE IN
2010/201 1:
10GLOBAL MANUF ACTURING
OPERA TIONS THAT
REPOR TED ZERO 
RECORDABLE
INCIDENTS  IN 2011: UP TO
~90% $6.5 MPERCENT AGE OF
EMPL OYEES  OUTSIDE
NOR TH AMERICA:
36%
19reCyCling
By developing and supporting innovative, effective recycling programs and educational campaigns, 
we substantially reduce the environmental footprint of our products. This ensures that metal packaging remains the sustainable solution and positively influences its image.
2010/2011 Progress Highlights
• Continued support of recycling initiatives on  
three continents
• launched significant new recycling programs in the 
united Kingdom ( u.K.) and France
2012/2013 Goal Highlights
• Work with industry partners to increase the u .s. 
beverage can recycling rate to 75 percent by 2015,  
the goal established by the a luminum a ssociation
• expand the geographic reach of “every can counts” 
programs in several e uropean countries
• extend “metalmatters” to approximately 2 million 
households in the u .K.
Metal cans are the most recycled beverage and food  
containers in the world. t hey are completely and infi -
nitely recyclable because aluminum and steel maintain their  
inherent properties throughout the recycling process. t hat 
is why they can be endlessly recycled into new metal prod -
ucts such as bicycles, bridges or cans. r ecycling metals 
reduces the demand for primary resources and the need  to mine bauxite or iron ore. a luminum and iron are the  
third and fourth most abundant elements on e arth.
recycling also saves large amounts of energy. u sing  
recycled aluminum requires only 5 percent of the energy needed to produce primary aluminum and reduces green -
house gas emissions by 95 percent.
  recycling steel 
provides similar benefits, saving 74 percent of the energy required to produce primary steel.
  the unique economic  
and environmental benefits of metal recycling play a vital role in making our world more resource efficient, creating jobs and protecting our climate.
recycling programs depend on reliable markets for  
recycled materials and sufficient revenues to offset costs for collection and processing. m etal cans are by far the most 
valuable beverage containers in the recycling stream. i n 
fact, metal cans often subsidize the recycling of other pack -
ages that have little or no value. t he high demand for used 
metal packaging and an efficient recycling infrastructure for cans make it possible for a beverage can to be recycled and back on the store shelf in about 60 days. t he economic value 
is also the main reason that nearly 75 percent of all alumi -
num and more than 80 percent of all steel ever produced is still in use today.
Cans: The World’s Most Recycled Container
recycling rates vary significantly from region to region, 
depending on legal frameworks; the available collection, processing and recycling infrastructure; socio-economic situations; and consumer awareness.
recycling depends on the collection of materials from the 
consumer to divert the materials from the waste stream to 
recan a sia cooperated with the Qingdao a ssociation for s cience and t echnology 
and C oFCo Coca-Cola Beverages ( shandong) l td. on an environmental 
education program in Qingdao, China. t he program ran from a pril 2011 to  
april 2012, and aimed at informing consumers about the sustainable 
characteristics of beverage cans and the benefits of recycling.
Children at schools, two of the city’s science and technology museums and in 
a youth center, were able to watch a video about the life cycle of cans, including 
details about the recycling process. a t the end of 2011, more than 21,000 people 
had viewed the video.
in may 2010, recan a sia organized a can-painting contest in the China 
national Children’s Center in Beijing. t he subject of the contest was “Caring for 
the e arth – p rotect the Future.” a bout 50 children dealt creatively with various 
actions intended to help preserve the environment.Priority in Action  
20Novelis committed itself to increase the recycled 
metal content in its own aluminum from 33 percent  
in 2010 to 80 percent by 2020. How do you plan to achieve that goal and what do you expect Ball to do  
in order to get there?
Ball is a key partner for Novelis in our joint sustainability 
efforts. From increasing the recycling rates of our products to minimizing the carbon footprint of the can,  
we are working together to find innovative ways to address the sustainability challenges of today and tomorrow. We know that the benefits of these efforts will be realized for not only our companies, but also our customers. Never before has collaboration between the members of our supply chain been more important.
We look forward to continued strengthening of our 
sustainability partnership with Ball, particularly on efforts to increase post-consumer recycling, innovation and increased dialogue with consumers, NGOs and other stakeholders on sustainability issues.Supplier  Perspective
John Gardner
Vice President and  
Chief Sustainability Officer
Novelis
the recycling stream. h undreds of millions of consumers 
worldwide use our packaging. i nfluencing these consumers 
to collect and recycle those materials is challenging.  
Because we are just one part of the total supply chain,  
we focus on a collaborative approach in support of various packaging collection systems.
the metal containers we manufacture are collected in many 
ways, such as curbside, drop-off and deposit programs. Curb -
side recycling is the most convenient program – all common household recyclables can be recycled at the curb, requiring only the separation of recyclables into recycling bins. i n the 
u.s., the most effective curbside programs provide financial 
incentives to recycle, such as recycling at no cost combined with weight-based cost for trash services.
in some countries, metal packaging recycling rates are 
close to or even greater than 90 percent. h owever, a number 
of collection programs in other countries are not perform -
ing as well. t here is a tremendous amount of variation in 
collection systems because they are primarily managed at 
the local level. s ome programs 
have failed to keep pace with changes in material markets, collection and sorting  techniques and consumer awareness. t he specific  
collection system weaknesses in each location must be  addressed in that region.Ball’s Support of Recycling Programs
Ball and industry partners support various recycling  
programs around the world. Consumer education and  
communication campaigns are ongoing projects – getting the message to the consumer only once will not change  
their recycling behavior long-term. t hat is why Ball  
continued to support various initiatives such as the Curbside value p artnership in the u .s., every Can Counts in the u nited 
Kingdom and the recal foundation in p oland during 2010  
and 2011. i n addition, two new innovative recycling  
programs were launched during the reporting period.  
those programs researched new facets of consumer  
recycling behavior, created tailor-made communication  
and tested creative approaches in an effort to increase  
recycling rates (see next page).ENERGY AND CO2
SAVED BY  RECY CLING
METALS:PERCENT AGE OF OUR
GLOBAL SO URCING 
VOLUME FROM 
COUNTRIES WIT HIN
THE OECD :95%CHARI TABLE DONA TIONS 
WORLD WIDE IN
2010/201 1:
10GLOBAL MANUF ACTURING
OPERA TIONS THAT
REPOR TED ZERO 
RECORDABLE
INCIDENTS  IN 2011: UP TO
~90% $6.5 MPERCENT AGE OF
EMPL OYEES  OUTSIDE
NOR TH AMERICA:
36%* no data available
** includes unregistered collectionRecycling rates in Ball’s major markets  
(industry sources)
     Region Aluminum Steel 
  Beverage Can Packaging
Argentina  91% *  
 (2009)
Brazil  98% 49% 
 (2009)  (2007)
China      99.5%**  75%  
 (2009)  (2007)
Europe 64% 71%  
 (2009)  (2010)
North America  58% 67%  
 (2010)  (2010)
21reCyCling
Priority in Action 
our Findlay, o hio, plant piloted a recycling scholarship contest at 
a regional high school in 2011. t he contest involved offering five 
$2,000 scholarships to those senior students that collect the most 
cans in a six-month period. Ball employees visited the school during the contest and explained the benefits of recycling. i n november, 
participants brought their used beverage cans to our plant where  
the cans were weighed and the five winners announced. t here were 
34 students who participated and they collected 5,740 pounds of cans. in 2012, we will be opening the contest to all surrounding schools in 
hancock County, o hio, to involve even more students in recycling.
as part of the national “ great a merican Can r oundup”  
 several Ball 
plants have been successfully collecting cans from local schools for several years. a dding the scholarship helped increase 
interest in recycling.   our Findlay plant developed guidelines for other Ball plants that would like to organize similar 
events. i n 2012, three Ball plants are going to host a recycling scholarship contest.With 9.5 billion cans in 2011, the u nited Kingdom ( u.K.) is e urope’s largest single can market. y et the recovery 
of metal cans has proved stubbornly low. t o address this, the industry set a goal to increase beverage can  
collection rates from 54 percent in 2010 to 75 percent by 2017.
While 97 percent of all u .K. municipalities provide metal collection via curbside schemes, only about  
40 percent of the available metal was captured. Ball initiated a project to better understand and address why 
participation was lacking. t he findings were surprising: people were seeking reassurance that their effort to 
recycle really makes a difference.
Ball and its partners crafted an innovative communication campaign to alleviate those engagement barriers. 
the program was tested for eight weeks in 2011 to some 60,000 households and as a result, metal packaging 
recycling increased by 13 percent on average.
metalmatters was awarded the e nvironmental e xcellence a ward for the best communication campaign  
in 2011 by the Chartered i nstitution of Wastes m anagement. www.metalmatters.org.uk
Based on the success story of e very Can Counts in the u .K., Ball and partners launched a similar program 
in 2010 in France. “chaque canette compte” (CCC) aims to increase recycling rates of beverage cans when consumed away from home – whether it be at work or other “on the go” locations.
through CCC, more than 2,000 can collection boxes and advertising materials have been distributed to 
numerous organizations. During 2011, CCC supported 22 events such as the 24 h ours of l e mans race. a t  
the end of 2011, 290 participating sites and 15 collection partners supported the program and collected  more than one million used beverage cans. www.chaquecanettecompte.fr
every Can Counts ( eCC), a partnership between beverage can manufacturers and the aluminum and  
steel packaging and recycling industries, aims to enable and encourage consumers to recycle cans  
when away from home. a bout 30 percent of all beverage cans sold in the u .K. annually are consumed 
outside the home.
at the end of 2011, nearly 700 organizations were registered with the program, with almost 5,000 e CC-
branded collection points at over 1,900 individual sites. e CC helped collect 51 million used beverage cans in 
2011. t his equates to 774 tons of aluminum and steel collected and around 5,800 metric tons of greenhouse 
gas emissions avoided. www.everycancounts.co.uk
Major Recycling Programs supported by Ball in 2010 and 2011
22Priority in Action
the recal foundation, in cooperation with the p olish m inistry of s ports and 
tourism, developed the environmental awareness campaign, “Cans for Balls.” 
the idea is to connect two important aspects of sustainable development – 
sports and resource conservation. i n light of the upcoming 2012 e uropean 
soccer Championships in p oland, numerous public sport fields were built in 
communities, the so-called “ orliks.”
recal established a communication campaign for o rliks around how 
players can protect the environment by recycling beverage cans while doing 
something good for their o rlik at the same time. a s an incentive to participate 
in recycling, the collected cans are sold and the revenues are used for buying sports equipment for the users of the o rliks.
recal, together with the recan recovery organization, provides containers 
for the collection of used beverage cans and recan is regularly emptying the containers, selling the collected cans to aluminum producers and then making sports equipment available to the o rliks. During the pilot phase in 2011, 20 o rliks 
participated in the program. t he program will be rolled out to more locations in 2012.
although beverage can recycling rates in China are very high, the environmental benefits of recycling  
are not very well known. Ball launched recan a sia in 2007 to create programs to educate consumers,  
especially children, about the positive impacts of recycling.
recan a sia also conducted research about the behavioral aspects of consumer waste disposal so  
that the most effective consumer messaging and education campaigns can be developed.
the recan fund was founded in s erbia when Ball opened its beverage can plant in Belgrade in 2005. i ts  
mission is to inform and educate consumers on the advantages of recycling, increase environmental 
awareness and to instill recycling as a daily habit.
in 2011, the recan fund and the s erbian branch of ta Fisa, the a ssociation For i nternational s port for  
all, developed campaigns to promote a healthy way of living and environmental stewardship. t hrough this 
new cooperation, recan is able to promote recycling and antilittering among sportspersons. For example, recan supported the recycling efforts at Belgrade’s Coca-Cola bicycle event in m ay 2011. www.recan.org
Ball started the recycling organization recan in 2004 to support and improve the collection of used  beverage cans in p oland. a t the end of 2011, the organization operated four recycling centers, collecting 
approximately 10,000 metric tons of cans per year. recan cooperates closely with regional waste  recycling companies, local scrap dealers, retail companies, the recal foundation and other partner  organizations. www.recan.com
the Curbside v alue p artnership (C vp) is an organization designed to grow participation in curbside  
recycling programs in the u nited s tates. i t is funded by Ball and other organizations, including  
government, private industry, haulers and materials recovery facilities. C vp’s goal is to launch and  
study education programs to increase participation in community curbside programs, while striving  
to make them more profitable and sustainable.
at the end of 2011, four state-wide and 27 community initiatives had been launched. C vp partners  
experienced an average 23 percent increase in recycling volume and an 18 percent increase in  
participation. Best practices are shared at www.recyclecurbside.org.
the recal foundation was founded in 1994 in p oland. i t pursues the same goals as the recan fund in s erbia 
and contributed to the increase in beverage can recycling from 2 percent in 1995 to 72.5 percent in 2010.
in 2010, recal started a cooperation with ta Fisa, the a ssociation For i nternational s port for a ll. the 
main goal of this cooperation is to develop innovative concepts to connect sports with environmental protection. ta Fisa, recal and the p olish m inistry for s port and t ourism have invited sport schools across 
the country to share best practices on how they protect the environment. t he best initiatives received an 
award and were described in a booklet so that all schools across the country could learn how to become greener. o ther projects are described at www.recal.pl.
23supply Chain
Priority in Action 
in 2011, Ball’s plant in o ss, n etherlands, began using “eco-
combis” for transporting cans to our customer, Bavaria, the 
second largest brewer in the n etherlands. a n eco-combi is an 
extra-long truck, measuring approximately 80 feet in length. our plant in o ss worked with Bavaria and the carrier, van den 
heuvel, to integrate the economical trucks into the supply chain. 
the distance between o ss and the small village of l ieshout, 
netherlands, where Bavaria is located, is about 40 kilometers.
Compared to a conventional truck, eco-combis can transport 
56 percent more cans, reducing fuel usage by approximately  30 percent. o n an annual basis, these trucks help us to eliminate 12,000 vehicle movements and reduce kilometers 
traveled by about 160,000, saving 25 tons of greenhouse gas emissions. r educed truck movements also result in decreased 
administrative and operational burdens.
Because of its use of the new eco-combis, our customer, Bavaria, has received the “ lean and g reen a ward” from the 
Dutch m inister of i nfrastructure and e nvironment.By better understanding environmental and social risks and opportunities in our diverse supply 
chain, we can balance commercial imperatives and sustainability efforts. This enhances our long-term competitiveness and our ability to create shared value for all of our stakeholders.
2010/2011 Progress Highlights
• Ball’s s upplier g uiding p rinciples accepted by all  
major suppliers
• received certification from tinplate suppliers  
regarding the non-use of “Conflict m inerals”
• Formalized our approach to ensuring that 
environmental and labor standards are maintained throughout our supply chain
2012/2013 Goal Highlights
• implement robust supply chain sustainability program, 
including metrics and goals
• global alignment of our sustainability related 
standards for all key suppliers
• expand and further enhance collaboration with 
stakeholders in our supply chain
Roughly 90 percent of our supply chain partners support 
our packaging businesses. t he remaining suppliers and 
subcontractors serve our aerospace business.
our top 100 suppliers represent the vast majority of dollars 
we spend on our goods and services. We focus the majority  
of our efforts with those suppliers in three key categories: aluminum, steel and metal coatings. Building on our rich history of more than 130 years, we have developed stable and proven relationships with our suppliers throughout all re -
gions of the globe. Wherever Ball operates, we strive to focus on strategic rather than tactical sourcing.By embedding a sustainability mindset into our supply chain, 
we can have a larger impact than if we improved only our own operational footprint. h owever, our supply chains are global 
and diverse, with many customers and suppliers who are significantly larger than Ball. We need to face the challenge  
to confirm that responsible business practices are maintained throughout our supply chain.
exchanging information and ideas on sustainability issues 
with our suppliers is critical to improve the performance of our products. i n order to lightweight our metal containers, 
for example, we must collaborate with our metal suppliers to develop a material that allows us to minimize the weight of the containers while maintaining their integrity. t his exchange 
of ideas creates opportunities for Ball and our supply chain stakeholders to invest in research and development of lighter, yet structurally sound, containers and to reduce the environ -
mental footprint of our products.
 
Communicating Expectations,  
Assessing Performance
We expect our suppliers to conduct their operations in an  
environmentally and socially sustainable manner and to  
satisfy conditions in our set of corporate ethics. We require them to operate using responsible business practices and  
to abide by all applicable laws and regulations.
Ball’s s upplier g uiding p rinciples are an important way 
in which we communicate and align the way our suppliers consider environmental and social aspects in their decision 
24As part of your overall sustainability assessment, 
you evaluate to what extent companies manage sustainability in their supply chains. Why is investors’ interest in supply chain risks and opportunities continuously growing and what is the challenge for Ball in particular?
Sustainability can create value and drive innovation when 
companies use strategy, rather than legal compliance, as a starting point. Calvert commends Ball Corporation for its strategic approach. We encourage Ball to continue including sustainability metrics in business plans, engaging with stakeholders, and using materiality assessments to prioritize environmental, social and governance factors through the company’s full value chain, both up and downstream.
This includes supply chain management – an area 
where Ball has room to improve. In the 2012 Sustainability Report, we would like to see a more robust supply chain approach, one that examines and discloses key risk factors such as material, water and energy needs, and describes systems to monitor labor, human rights and environmental performance. Supply chain management informs the complex network of suppliers, manufacturers, transporters, distributors, and vendors to support the efficient delivery of high quality products and sustainable solutions.Investor  Perspective
Julie Frieder
Senior Sustainability Analyst
Calvert Investmentsmaking and activities.   
the principles were developed 
with input from key customers, 
suppliers and socially respon -
sible investment analysts, and require that our suppliers certify and demonstrate compliance with them at Ball’s request. they cover employment prac -
tices, human rights, environment, health and safety, antitrust and bribery and corruption. During the reporting period, Ball has provided this document to suppliers and has incorporated the principles as part of all new contractual relationships.
also, we started to include a questionnaire on corporate 
sustainability management and performance metrics to be used in supplier assessments. With this self-assessment, we are aiming to evaluate our major suppliers while com -
municating our expectations at the same time. i n 2012, it is 
Ball’s intention to extend the use of self-assessments to all of our major suppliers globally. o ur goal is to jointly improve 
transparency and performance in our supply chain. 
in 2011, Ball sourced approximately 90 percent of its sourcing 
volume from countries within the oe CD (organisation for  
economic Co-operation and Development), an international  
organization promoting policies that improve the economic and social well-being of people around the world. g lobal supply 
chains continue to grow and expand. t hat is why we assume 
that we will purchase more goods from countries outside of the oe CD in the future. While we will strive to require suppliers 
from these countries to comply with our standards, this might pose additional challenges to ensure their compliance.
Collaborating for Better Products
Based on the results of intensive research – including life cycle assessments – Ball conducted with industry partners in the u .s. and e urope, we know that most of the environ -
mental impacts of metal packaging occur during metal production.
  also, the biggest risks and opportunities with 
respect to social issues such as employment practices, con -
flict minerals and safety occur in our upstream supply chain.
Because we can achieve only so much as a single company, 
we are aligning our efforts with business partners inside  
and outside of the packaging industry, and with certain  
trade associations, including those for aluminum and steel. By encouraging the exchange of ideas and capabilities, we  
will be able to deliver more sustainable products to our  
customers and consumers.
SmartWay Transport Partner
Ball does not operate its own truck fleet. t hrough our participation in the u .s. environmental p rotection a gency’s 
smartWay program, however, Ball is striving to reduce 
transportation-related emissions by creating incentives for our carriers to improve fuel efficiency.  
 
Ball’s n orth a merican metal beverage packaging  
operations, which accounted for more than 50 percent of our global units of production in 2011, became the first smartWay t ransport p artner within the packaging industry 
in 2009. i n 2011, 66 percent of Ball’s transportation needs in 
north a merica were executed by s martWay carriers. a mong 
other measures, Ball asks all major carriers to become a smartWay partner. t hese combined efforts have resulted  
in increased fuel efficiencies and a 27 percent reduction of Co2 emissions per mile between 2009 and 2011.ENERGY AND CO2
SAVED BY  RECY CLING
METALS:PERCENT AGE OF OUR
GLOBAL SO URCING 
VOLUME FROM 
COUNTRIES WIT HIN
THE OECD :95%CHARI TABLE DONA TIONS 
WORLD WIDE IN
2010/201 1:
10GLOBAL MANUF ACTURING
OPERA TIONS THAT
REPOR TED ZERO 
RECORDABLE
INCIDENTS  IN 2011: UP TO
~90% $6.5 MPERCENT AGE OF
EMPL OYEES  OUTSIDE
NOR TH AMERICA:
36%
25Community
Priority in Action 
From elementary school through college, Ball a erospace inspires students  
with its numerous education and outreach activities. t he company actively 
supports s cience, t echnology, e ngineering and m ath ( stem ) programs such  
as For i nspiration and r ecognition in s cience and t echnology (F irst ).
the F irst r obotics program motivates young people to pursue science  
and technology careers by giving them the opportunity to work side by side  
with high-tech professionals. s tudent teams and their mentors collaborate  
on a fun and ambitious project – designing and building a unique, complex,  rugged robot. 
Ball a erospace employees mentored eight robotic teams in 2010 and 13 in 
2011. e mployees have served as mentors for ten years while Ball a erospace has 
sponsored F irst teams for eight years. Ball Corporation also provides financial 
support to the Colorado F irst office, which organizes the statewide program. 
supporting F irst r obotics is just one example of how Ball inspires the next 
generation and enriches the communities where we live and work.A healthy business depends on thriving communities. Through corporate giving and 
volunteerism we invest in the future of the communities that sustain us all.
At Ball we strive to enrich the communities in which we 
live and work beyond traditional economic investments 
such as jobs, benefits and local taxes. t hroughout the world, 
our company and employees donate money and time to  
support organizations, programs and civic initiatives that  
advance sustainable livelihoods because we believe it is important to be a good neighbor, corporate citizen and  
employer of choice in all our communities.
Ball Foundation
Ball has a long history of supporting charitable organiza -
tions. t he five Ball brothers who founded our company in 1880 are remembered not only for their business prowess but also for their charitable activities. t hey were great com -
munity benefactors; in 1922 alone, according to that year’s new y ork t imes, the brothers donated $1 million to charity, 
a remarkable sum for the time.
as our company has grown through the years, we have  
continued to support communities through corporate  
philanthropy and volunteerism. t oday, we believe it is  
important to take a strategic approach to our charitable  
giving by supporting organizations that solve problems cen -
tral to our company values and business strategy. i n late 2010, 
we began our transition from corporate philanthropy to im -
pact-driven community investment when we formed the Ball Foundation. 
  Ball now directs the majority of its corporate 
giving in the u .s. through the Ball Foundation, and its creation 
is a key proof point to our commitment to sustainability.
the Ball Foundation’s mission is to provide financial  
support to not-for-profit, u .s. organizations that sustain the 
communities in which we live and operate by improving and promoting education, recycling and community engagement. to achieve this, the Ball Foundation provides grants to  
tax-exempt organizations that meet the Ball Foundation guidelines and have measurable plans to improve communi -
ties where Ball employees live and work.
the Ball Foundation’s grant-making guidelines are linked 
to Ball’s overall corporate strategy and will play a key part in our global charitable giving efforts. While the distribution of Ball Foundation funds will be limited to the u .s., the guide -2010/2011 Progress Highlights
• Formed the Ball Foundation and developed global 
community investment strategy
• Contributed more than $6.5 million to our communities 
around the world
• global, reported employee volunteer hours increased 
nearly 30 percent
2012/2013 Goal Highlights
• measure community impact achieved through Ball 
Foundation grants
• Drive global community engagement strategy
• enhance employee matching gift, giving and volunteer 
programs to increase participation and better measure 
the diversity of our community engagement
26lines and processes created will be leveraged across our 
global footprint. a s we move forward, this will bring more 
purpose, structure and transparency to our giving around the world by providing greater focus on which organizations we support and why, and by giving us the ability to track and measure the impact it makes.
Employee Giving
our community impact extends beyond corporate giving. 
employees in n orth a merica and e urope use our company’s 
employee matching gift program to increase the impact  of their personal financial gifts to nonprofits and higher  educational institutions – in 2010 and 2011, Ball and our employees gave nearly $1 million to our communities through this program. For decades Ball has also conducted employee giving campaigns for u nited Way,
 an international nonprofit 
organization that pools volunteer efforts and fundraising  
support for numerous community organizations. Ball and 
its employees raised about $2.5 million through campaigns  
at more than 30 locations from plant donations, employee contributions and matching funds during the reporting period.
Volunteering
Ball employees around the world reported volunteering  
thousands of hours to support our communities. Forexample, in Colorado, where Ball employs more than  
3,000 people, an employee volunteer task force called  
Ball e mployee a ction & Community o utreach n etwork  
(BeaCon) coordinates volunteer activities throughout the 
year. i n 2010 and 2011, 281 B eaCon volunteers contributed 
more than 2,500 hours of their time to our communities.  
projects included repairing several Denver area homes as 
part of a national r ebuilding t ogether event, monthly staffing 
and help at a local food bank and cleaning up open space land.
employees at our plants throughout n orth a merica gave 
their time to support self-sufficiency, health, education and more. s ome examples include a food drive organized by 
employees at Ball‘s Findlay, o hio, plant, which collected 3,100 
pounds of food and supplies for a local facility that houses and assists struggling families. i n addition, employees at Ball’s 
Baltimore, m aryland, plant packed and sent steel tins to troops 
in afghanistan to be used to 
store their personal provisions. our Conroe, t exas, plant hosted 
educational recycling field trips for hundreds of elementary and middle school students.
Ball a erospace employees 
volunteered for a variety of nonprofits supporting science, technology, engineering and math activities as part of its  
education p ublic o utreach programs. o ther volunteer  
groups support events like u nited Way’s Day of Caring,  
special o lympics s ummer g ames and a local s cience s aturday 
event to educate children about space missions.
our employees outside n orth a merica share their time 
to help benefit our communities as well. For example, our oss, n etherlands, plant participated in a national project to 
encourage young children to work in a technical environment. several groups from local schools visited the plant to learn 
about the can making process.
our employee giving, matching gift and volunteer  
programs let our employees help drive Ball’s community  engagement and reflect their diverse interests by supporting causes that are important to them. We are working to  automate and improve these programs to provide a venue for employees to communicate and engage with each other and our communities through giving and volunteerism.Ball has worked with The United Way in the United 
States for decades. What do you consider to be major challenges for Ball to increase employee engagement in the community through giving and volunteering, especially with younger generations?
Ball Corporation and its employees, through a 
long-standing partnership with u nited Way, lead by 
example in supporting the communities in which Ball’s employees live and work. Foothills u nited Way 
is honored to continue that relationship today as we work together to advance the common good through community engagement.
moving forward, the opportunities for increasing 
employee engagement lie in furthering corporate  
and individual knowledge of how organizations such as u nited Way effectively address the needs in the 
community and the value of each individual effort. through education and partnership, Ball employees 
and various organizations can work together to  
craft long-term solutions and create a better life  
for everyone.NGO Perspective
Barbara Pingrey
President/CEO
Foothills United Way
ENERGY AND CO2
SAVED BY  RECY CLING
METALS:PERCENT AGE OF OUR
GLOBAL SO URCING 
VOLUME FROM 
COUNTRIES WIT HIN
THE OECD :95%CHARI TABLE DONA TIONS 
WORLD WIDE IN
2010/201 1:
10GLOBAL MANUF ACTURING
OPERA TIONS THAT
REPOR TED ZERO 
RECORDABLE
INCIDENTS  IN 2011: UP TO
~90% $6.5 MPERCENT AGE OF
EMPL OYEES  OUTSIDE
NOR TH AMERICA:
36%
27 
Ball Cor porat ionDrive 
for
We know what 
is im portant.
Customer Focus
We must b e viewed as a
strategic par tner at each
of ou r key custo mers.
Operat ional Excel lence
We must be the mo st 
competit ive in ter ms of cost, 
quality and ser vice in all the 
markets in which we compete 
by continually d riving f or 
efﬁciencies in all our processes.
Innovat ion &
Business Development
We must identif y and drive
proﬁtab le growth.People and Culture F ocus
We must have the best people ,
providing them  the rig ht 
support, rewards and grow th
oppor tunities to thrive.  
Sustaina bility
We must bal ance our economic,
envir onmental and social
impacts for greater long-term 
success.In order to reach ou r goals, we m ust exce l in these ar eas:
 > Maximizin g value in our existing businesses
> Expanding into new prod ucts and capabilities
> Alignin g ourselves with the right customers and mark ets
> Broadenin gour geo graphic reach
> Leveraging  our know-how and technolog ical exper tiseDrive 
for
We know 
where 
we are going.
We want to be  the best at everything we do , and wi ll continual ly 
strive for per fection at Ball as we pursue our st rategy of:
to provide a competitive ad vantag e
Ball Cor porat ion
Drive 
for
Ball Corporat ion> Uncompr omising Integr ity
> Being Close to Our Customers
> Behaving Like Owne rs
> Focusing on Attention to Detai l
> Being Innovat iveProud of our rich history, we recognize the whole of our company is gr eater than the sum of its par ts. 
Most impor tantly, we believe in our people, our culture 
and our ability to deliver value to all our stakeholders. Though we encourage and embrace our diversity of thought, business, location and language, we are “One Ball,” valuing:We know  
who we  are.
www.ball.comWe must balance our economic, 
environmental and social impacts  
for greater long-term success.SustainabilityDrive for 10
Ball Corporation
10 l ongs peak Drive
Broomfield, C o 80021
(303) 469-3131