BALL  CORPORATION2020  SUSTAINABILITY REPORTABOUT OUR REPORTING
This is Ball Corporation’s seventh biennial sustainability report, covering calendar years 2018 and 2019. 
It complements our financial reporting and covers the sustainability topics identified by Ball and our 
stakeholders as most material to our company. Customers, investors, employees and suppliers are the 
primary audience for our reporting.
Unless otherwise stated, we are reporting sustainability metrics globally, covering facilities where Ball has 
operational control, which include owned manufacturing facilities, major administrative offices, warehouses, 
and research and development facilities. Operations that are outside of these criteria, such as joint venture 
locations where Ball does not have control and full authority to introduce and implement its operating 
policies, are not included in our reporting.
In addition to reporting Ball’s latest environmental performance data online, Ball annually updates historical 
environmental performance data to incorporate updated emission factors and any more accurate data 
that has become available. An external assurance statement  by ERM Certification and Verification 
Services (ERM CVS) and further details on reporting principles, boundaries and data normalization are 
available on our website. Our reporting was developed in accordance with the Core Level of the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI)  Standards. A detailed GRI Content Index appears online.  
Governments around the world officially adopted the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs)  in 2015 to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure prosperity for all by 2030. At Ball, we focus 
our efforts on four SDGs where we can have the highest impact: Responsible Consumption and Production, 
Climate Action, Clean Water and Sanitation, and Partnerships for the Goals. 
While this report predominately features Ball’s environmental sustainability and diversity and inclusion 
efforts, other social and economic sustainability activities are key aspects of our strategy as well.  We remain 
focused on the safety of our employees, economic returns and shareholder returns. More resources on 
these efforts can be found in our annual report,  safety performance  and sustainability priorities.  Content headings are hyperlinked to each individual section
ABOUT BALL  02
HIGHLIGHTS  03
CIRCULAR ECONOMY  06
CLIMATE CHANGE  16
WATER STEWARDSHIP  24
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING  30
DIVERSITY & INCLUSION  34
SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT  38TABLE OF CONTENTS 
We welcome your comments and questions  on our sustainability efforts. Please direct  them to sustainability@ball.com.
More details on our sustainability performance, best practices and updates on our progress are available at www.ball.com/sustainability.CONTACTS 
EXTERNAL ASSESSMENTS
Ball’s sustainability management and performance have again been recognized by external experts.Throughout the PDF of this report, click this symbol  for additional web content.SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 
WITH BALL LEADERS
KATHLEEN PITRE  
Chief Commercial & Sustainability OfficerJOHN HAYES  
Chairman, President & CEO
Tell us more about the chief commercial  
and sustainability officer role. 
I’m guiding the development of Ball’s vision 
for market and sustainability leadership, and 
aligning our commercial and sustainability 
teams behind this vision. Collectively, we are formulating and executing our market-leading sustainability strategy and implementing it – as well as leveraging the significant sustainability credentials of aluminum beverage packaging –  
to benefit our customers around the world. 
The integration of commercial and  
sustainability functions is unique. Why is  
this important to Ball?Sustainability matters more than ever, and even 
amidst other significant concerns, such as the global COVID-19 pandemic, consumers are 
concerned about the negative impacts of plastic 
pollution on human health and the environment. They expect brands to make sustainability a priority. Beverage brands understand this and know they need to diversify their packaging mix. 
As the most sustainable beverage packaging 
material, aluminum is a real-world solution to 
the challenges that our customers are facing. What progress has Ball made on its sustainability journey over the past two years? 
Sustainability is a key element of our  
long-term Drive for 10 vision, and we have  
taken thoughtful, deliberate action to ensure  
that our business, operations and products  
are sustainable for the long term, from an 
environmental, social and economic perspective.
Since we issued our last sustainability report, 
we’ve reached several significant milestones 
in enhancing the environmental sustainability 
profile of our products and our operations, including the approval of our ambitious science-based greenhouse gas emission reduction target, substantial renewable energy deals in  
North America and Europe, greater  
responsible sourcing assurance through  
our ASI Certification in EMEA, and the introduction of our award-winning Ball  
Aluminum Cup™. 
One other important action was to more  
formally integrate our commercial and 
sustainability strategies through the  
creation of a new role, Chief Commercial  
and Sustainability Officer for Global Beverage 
Packaging, to which Kathleen was promoted. Ball’s integrated sustainability and commercial teams are helping our customers leverage the sustainability credentials of aluminum packaging 
to profitably grow their businesses, while helping 
to ensure that our products enable the circular economy. We are also continually innovating to instill even greater confidence in aluminum cans, bottles and cups to help them stand out with consumers as the most sustainable package  
and win in the marketplace. 
Speaking of the circular economy, can you tell  
us a bit more about what is driving this trend 
and how Ball is responding?
People understand that the old take-make-
waste model is not working and that society must move toward a more circular economy– 
one in which materials can be reused or recycled 
endlessly to minimize environmental impacts. 
We couldn’t agree more, which is why we are 
progressively focused on product design, real circularity and increasing global aluminum packaging recycling rates. In the coming pages, 
you will learn more about our progress in all of 
these critical areas and how we plan to move our products to the next sustainability level to benefit all of our stakeholders moving forward. 1
BALL CORPORATIONABOUT BALL
GLOBAL BEVERAGE PACKAGINGOVERALL
North & Central America, 
South America, Europe,  
Asia, Middle East & AfricaACTIVE IN
1969FOUNDED
$9,6812019 NET SALES  
($ IN MILLIONS)1880FOUNDED
$11,4742019 NET SALES  
($ IN MILLIONS)
11,267EMPLOYEES
58MANUFACTURING LOCATIONS18,300EMPLOYEES
79LOCATIONS 
Beverage Cans, Beverage Ends,  
Aluminum Bottles, Aluminum CupsPRODUCTS
101.5 billionCANS PRODUCED3LINES OF BUSINESS
AEROSOL PACKAGING
North & Central America, Europe & AsiaACTIVE IN
2010FOUNDED
$3842019 NET SALES  
($ IN MILLIONS)1,450EMPLOYEES
8MANUFACTURING LOCATIONSAluminum Aerosol Cans,  
Aluminum SlugsPRODUCTS
1.2 billionCANS PRODUCED
AEROSPACE
U.S.ACTIVE IN
1956FOUNDED
$1,4792019 NET SALES  
($ IN MILLIONS)4,516EMPLOYEES
13LOCATIONSSpacecraft & Space Science, 
Instruments & Sensors, Antennas, Technologies & Components,  Data Analytics/Exploitation, Engineering Services, TestingPRODUCTS(YEAR-END 2019)2
BALL CORPORATIONHIGHLIGHTS
  Set a new 1.5-degree Celsius science-
based target for a 55% absolute reduction in greenhouse gas emissions 
from our own operations by 2030
  Signed agreements to purchase a 
significant amount of our energy from 
  Introduced the infinitely recyclable, lightweight Ball Aluminum Cup™ for  
cold beverages in North America 
  Global production volumes increased  
5% in 2019
  Partnered with NASA and USGS to develop land imaging technologies  
that enable the Landsat program to 
build on its historic data archive and 
provide critical information about  
global water resources  Launched new range of lightweight, reusable Infinity aluminum bottles, designed to provide a circular solution  
to plastic pollution for personal  
care products renewable sources, equal to our energy load in North America and Europe, 
dramatically reducing our carbon footprint
  Donated more than $7.5 million, 
supporting over 2,000 non-profit organizations worldwide, and Ball 
  Conducted a peer reviewed comparative Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) for beverage packaging across the United States, 
Europe and Brazil 
  Signed a contract with MethaneSAT LLC 
to develop an advanced remote sensing instrument that will detect methane 
emissions across the globe from space
  Contracted backlog grew 155%  
since 2010  Created Ball Enterprise Intelligence, 
an advanced analytics services group providing large organizations with 
actionable, predictive intelligence to 
inform operations, strategy and  
financial decision making  In 2019, passed the milestone of producing 1 billion aluminum aerosol cans using Ball’ ReAl® alloy. Since starting 
production in 2014, this innovation has 
enabled lightweighting, saving more than 16,500 metric tons of GHG emissionsemployees volunteered over  
38,500 hours in 2019
  Rolled out Unconscious Bias training globally and a female talent initiative, resulting in the promotion of 20%  
of participants 
  Eliminated the use of over  
5,000 metric tons of aluminum  
through weight optimization of cans, 
saving more than 16,000 metric tons  
of greenhouse gas emissions
  Water efficiency increased 6.3% per  
can from 2018 to 2019
  Global aluminum aerosol volumes 
increased 1% in 2019 3
BALL CORPORATION3CATEGORY SUSTAINABILITY GOALS STATUS AS OF YEAR-END 2019 SDG
PRODUCT  
STEWARDSHIPCut the carbon footprint of our beverage cans by 25% (considering goals 
on multiple issues, including weight optimization, energy in can making and metal production, recycling rates). 
(2010 baseline)Reduced carbon footprint by 26% between 2010-2019.
Achieve industry recycling rates targets for metal packaging products in developed markets, and work toward measurement and improvement of metal packaging recycling in emerging markets.Contribute to increasing recycling rates of beverage cans, working 
through partnerships to set future recycling rate targets.
Deliver three major aerospace programs that will provide significant benefits in areas such as climate change, weather, drought, pollution  
and biodiversity measurements.Among several projects that provide actionable environmental intelligence on air quality, land resources and ozone, Ball Aerospace partnered with customers to develop the Geostationary Environment Monitoring Spectrometer (GEMS), the Operational Land Imager (OLI) 
and the Ozone Mapping and Profiler Suite (OMPS).
OPERATIONAL  
EXCELLENCEReduce three-year rolling average Total Recordable Incident Rate by 25%. 
(2015 baseline)Reduced the 2017-2019 global average Recordable Incident Rate  
by 25%.
By year-end 2016, determine baseline for electricity, natural gas, water, 
waste and VOCs for our company post-close of the Rexam acquisition,  
and commit to bottom-up normalized targets for our global beverage  
can business by mid-2017. (2015 baseline)Established baseline and normalized targets across global beverage 
operations in 2017.
Improve energy efficiency by 5%. (2016 baseline) Increased energy efficiency 5.5% between 2016-2019.
Improve water efficiency by 5%. (2016 baseline) Increased water efficiency 11% between 2016-2019.
Reduce total waste generation per unit of production by 6%.  
(2016 baseline)Total waste generation increased in 2019; however, as our waste 
reduction initiatives continue, we expect waste reductions going forward.
Determine a science-based greenhouse gas emission reduction  
target by mid-2018.1.5°C target was approved in early 2020 by the Science-Based  
Target Initiative.
TALENT  
MANAGEMENTEnhance overall employee engagement and talent retention by assessing and continuously improving the processes that support the way we acquire, onboard, develop and move talent at Ball.Implemented Success Factors and a more rigorous approach  
with company-wide employee goal setting within that system.  
We are continuing to evaluate the best approach for an employee listening strategy.
Roll out diversity and inclusion (D&I) tools globally, expand our Ball Resource Groups company-wide, and meet the criteria required to  
secure a place on the Diversity, Inc. Top 50 Companies for Diversity.Expanding Diversity & Inclusion strategy and tools globally,  
including the expansion of resource groups to all regions.
COMMUNITY 
AMBASSADORSGlobal roll out of Community Ambassadors program.Plants from every region participated in the 2019 Global Recycling  
Can Challenge.
Establish 2030 global volunteer goal that is aligned with the  
UN Sustainable Development Goals.We are still working toward establishing a volunteer goal.BALL ’S 2020 SUSTAINABILITY GOALS
ACHIEVED ON TRACK SOME PROGRESS BEHIND4
BALL CORPORATIONFINANCIAL DATA  UNIT  2015  2016  2017  2018   2019  Change vs 2015
Net sales  $ in millions  7 ,997  9,061  10,983  11,635  11,474  43 %
Comparable operating earnings1 $ in millions  801  976  1,220  1,290  1,331  66 %
Free cash flow1,2,3 $ in millions  509  ( 413  )  922  750   950  87 %
EVA dollars1,4 $ in millions  181  199  240  242  217 20 %
Diluted earnings per share (comparable basis)1,5 $ 1.7 4  1.7 4  2.04  2.20  2.53  45 %
Cash dividends per share5 $ 0.26  0.26  0.365  0.40  0.55  112 %
Total corporate giving6 $ in millions  3.5  4  4.2  5.8  7.5 -1  N on-U.S. GAAP measures should not be  
considered in isolation and should not be 
considered superior to, or a substitute for, financial 
measures calculated in accordance with U.S. 
GAAP. Further discussion of non-GAAP financial 
measures is available in Item 7 of the Annual 
Report on Form 10-K.
2  F ree cash flow is not a defined term under  
U.S. GAAP, and it should not be inferred that 
the entire free cash flow amount is available for 
discretionary expenditures. The company defines 
free cash flow as cash flow from operating 
activities less capital expenditures.
3  Amoun ts in 2017, 2016 and 2015 have been 
retrospectively adjusted to reflect the adoption 
of new accounting guidance for the preparation of the statement of cash flows that was effective 
January 1, 2018. Cash provided by operating 
activities was increased by $30 million in 2015 as  a result of adopting the new accounting guidance.
4  N et operating earnings after tax less a capital 
charge of 9% after-tax on average invested  
capital employed.
5  Amoun ts in 2016 and 2015 have been 
retrospectively adjusted for the two-for-one  
stock split that was effective on May 16, 2017.
6  2015, 2016 and 2017 ar e for North American giving 
only. 2018 and 2019 compile global giving, which 
was not previously tracked. 
7  Pr oduct group-specific normalization factors are 
used to calculate a consolidated intensity index 
for Ball. The index accounts for overall changes 
in production over a period, and for changes in 
production mix between business segments. It is 
set at 100 for the reference year 2015. 
8 Natural gas, propane, diesel, jet fuel 
9 Electricity, hot water, steam 
10  R enewable energy falls within Indirect energy 
11  Direct GHG emissions from sources owned or 
controlled by Ball, primarily from fossil fuels,  
such as natural gas and diesel, burned on site.
12  I ndirect GHG emissions from the generation of 
electricity, heating, cooling and steam generated off site and purchased by Ball. The Scope 2 
emissions reported here are market-based,  
our Scope 2 location-based emissions can be 
found online. 
13  Indirect GHG emissions from sources not owned 
or directly controlled by Ball, but related to our 
activities (e.g. purchased goods and services, 
business travel). Details regarding Ball’s Scope 3 
reporting criteria can be found online. 
14  M etal manufacturing scrap not included, all of 
which is sent back to our suppliers and remelted
15  N umbers have been rounded. The increase  
in 2016 was as result of our acquisition of  
Rexam PLC.
16  W e strive to create an environment that unlocks 
qualities, values and potential of each employees 
and leverages diverse perspectives, experiences, competencies, cultures and aspirations. With 
our global diversity and inclusion efforts further 
maturing, we expect to report other D&I metrics 
than gender and age in the future. 
17  The 2019 gap be tween male and female 
employees accounts for the percentage who  
chose not to identify as male or female.
18  I ncluded are voluntary departures and those due 
to dismissal, retirement and passing. 2018 and 
2019 turnover do not include the divestiture of 
Ball’s Metalpack business and China beverage 
packaging operations.ENVIRONMENTAL DATA  UNIT  2015  2016  2017  2018  2019  absolute  normalized7
Energy consumption  MWh in thousands  4,089  4,136  4,117  4,266  4,403  8 % -5  %
 - D irect energy8  1,971  1,97 4  1,987  2,064  2,134  8 % -4 %
 - I ndirect energy9  2,118  2,162  2,130  2,202  2,269  7 % -6 %
  Renewable energy10  -  10  11  11 11 -  -
Greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1+2)   1,27 4,412  1,213,208  1,213,282  1,226,470  1,242,941  -2 % - 15  %
 - Sc ope 111  402,118  398,468  401,253  418,301  434,670  8 % -3  %
 - Sc ope 212 metric tons CO2 e 872,294  814,7 41  812,029  808, 169 808,272  -7 % -20  %
 - Sc ope 313  -  -  8,489,022  8,293,578  8,636,045  -  -  
Water consumption  m3 9,432,078  9,450,016  9,135,030  9,284,933  9,450,203  0 % -12 %
Waste generation14  60  64  63  62  72 19 % 4 %
 - R ecycled/reused metric tons  34  35  39  38 44 30 %  14  %
 - L andfill in thousands  11  11  8  8 7 -41 %  -49  %
 - Other treatment  15  18  16  16 21 38 %  22  %
VOC emissions  metric tons  8,940  8,510  8,760  9,705  10,012  12 %  - 1  %
SOCIAL DATA  UNIT  2015  2016  2017  2018  2019  Change vs 2015
Employees (year-end) 15,16,17 #  15,100   18,700   18,300   17 ,500   18,300   21 %
 - M ale % of total workforce  83  %  83  %  84  %  83  % 80 % -4 %
 - F emale  17  %  17  %  16  %  17  % 17 % 0 %
 - <30  13  %  15  %  15  %  17  % 20 % 54 %
 - 30-50 % of total workforce  54  %  57  %  57  %  58  % 55 % 2 %
 - >50  33  %  28  %  28  %  25  % 25 % -24 %
Employee turnover 18 % of total workforce  11  %  13  %  14  %  15  %  12 % 7 %
Total recordable incident rate  recordable incidents/  1.24   1.06   1.00   0.88   0.90   -27 %
Severity rate  lost work days/  7 .42   9.18   9.63   5.54   9.68   30 %
Work-related fatalities  # 0   0   0   0   0  0 %200k hrs worked
200k hrs workedDATAWithin each sustainability report we cover five calendar years, in order to provide stakeholders with trend analyses. An interactive charting 
tool on our website   allows users to filter, analyze and display data on our environmental and safety performance. Environmental, safety and 
employee data covers all Ball sites globally, including manufacturing facilities, major administrative offices, external warehouses and research and development facilities where we have operational control. Since 2015, the company acquired Rexam PLC in 2016, sold its steel food and steel aerosol businesses in 2018 and 2019, respectively, and sold its Chinese beverage can assets in late 2019.
Change vs 20155
BALL CORPORATIONWhy we need an entirely new  
circular packaging system
In the last few years the world has seen a renewed 
concern with the undeniable fact that litter from packaging 
with limited recyclability is harming the planet. This has led 
to an urgent public debate about how to find sustainable 
packaging alternatives that move us toward a circular 
economy – one in which materials are not just used and 
thrown away, but are reused or recycled endlessly.
What is real circularity?
At its purest, real circularity involves the continuous 
recovery and reuse of materials, with nothing lost during 
the process on economic terms that are not a tax to 
society. In terms of recycling, this means that all materials 
are properly collected and sorted, then each part of each 
product is separated out and fully recycled with minimum 
material loss, to become part of a product of similar value. 
This is “real recycling,” where materials are kept in the 
loop at their highest economic value and function, rather 
than being subject to high losses and “downcycling” into 
products of lower value.We, as a society, have 
woken up to the fact that real recycling is essential for a truly circular system 
REAL CIRCULARITY: A CIRCLE THAT NEVER ENDS
6
BALL CORPORATION  Minimal mat erial losses during the  
recycling process
  U se of materials that do not lose value and 
properties through many recycling cycles
Aluminum cans:  
packaging closest to the real circularity ideal
Aluminum cans are a good example of a 
packaging option that is well-suited for real 
circularity. Since they are made of an infinitely 
recycled, homogenous material, they can 
be sorted easily and do not require complex 
processing to be recycled. This “design for 
circularity,” combined with high end-of-life 
economic value, makes 100% recycling of cans 
viable, and should be the goal if we are to move 
from a “take-make-waste” society toward a fully To achieve full circularity, packaging must be 
designed from the outset to ensure that all of its 
elements can be 100% recycled or reused cost effectively. There also must be a well-functioning collection infrastructure that ensures the flow 
of high-quality materials instead of a cheap 
process that leads to downcycling. The collection 
infrastructure needs to reach beyond the home, 
providing opportunities for people to recycle  
in the places where they work and go about  
their leisure.
The key imperatives for a truly circular 
packaging system
Extended Producer Responsibility
  Pr oducers are responsible for the cost  
of take-back, recycling and final disposal  
of their products
  Pr oducts are designed for easy sorting  
and recycling
  D ifferent products attract variable fees  
and taxes, depending on their recyclability 
(known as eco-modulation)
100% collection
  P ackaging collection should cover on-the-  
go locations, as well as at home.
  Modern technology-enabled deposit  
return systems, which are more  
convenient for consumers
  T reatment of municipal waste before 
landfill or incineration uses latest recovery 
technologies for high-value materials
Recycling processes that really work
  R educed complexity of packaging design 
so that all parts of a product are easily 
separated and cost-effectively recycled circular economy. It is not enough for products 
to be recyclable in theory – they need to be 
recycled in the real world. That is why design  
for circularity is always the starting point for 
product innovations at Ball (see ‘ Our new 
aluminum bottle ’ ).
Aluminum is a permanent material with high 
economic value that can be used over and over again without any loss of quality, while 
producing extraordinarily high recycling yields. 
This means that aluminum beverage cans can 
be recycled forever. All that is needed is for the 
cans to be collected, sorted, melted down, and 
then returned to the market – a process that not 
only saves on resources, but cuts energy use by 
95% compared to making a can from primary 7
CIRCULAR ECONOMYmaterial. Currently, this cycle typically takes 
approximately 60 days.
While aluminum cans retain their worth infinitely, 
other materials, such as plastic bottles, are often 
turned into different products of lower value 
(such as trays, carpet or textiles) that are unable 
to be recycled again.
More often, however, plastic bottles end up 
not being recycled at all and are thrown away. 
Approximately 9%  of all the plastic ever made 
has been recycled once, while 79% has ended  
up in landfill sites or in the environment as 
litter. By contrast, 75% of all the aluminum ever 
produced in the history of mankind is still in use 
today. With the right systems and incentives 
established, most aluminum can be recycled  
and kept in the material loop much more efficiently than other common packaging 
substrates. We then will have moved toward  
a truly circular packaging system.
Producer responsibility is key
Most of the world’s collective packaging waste 
management systems struggle. They are 
challenged by shifting commodity economics, 
concerns about material quality and higher operational costs related to several market changes, among other aspects. Many 
collection services and sorting plants are run 
by municipalities, which are facing budget 
constraints and often lack sufficient funding to 
run effective recycling programs. On top of all 
this, the overall business model for collection, 
processing, sorting and disposal of waste 
was designed decades ago, when single-use 
products were in their infancy.Whilst there are types of plastic that are 
recyclable, it can be confusing what can and can’t be recycled, especially when you’re on the go. It’s not like that with cans. It’s easy, and the vast majority know what bin to use.
LUKE WILKES  
Operations Director,  
Jimmy’s Iced Coffee,  
United Kingdom
As things stand, there are few incentives, 
economic or otherwise, for brands to redesign 
their packaging for better circularity. The current 
design, manufacture and disposal of inexpensive 
consumer goods has created products that are 
cheap to produce, yet difficult and expensive  
to recycle, with environmental costs that are  
largely borne by society. Some of these  
products are made in such a complex fashion 
that they are unviable to recycle, both technically 
and economically.
This disconnect of ownership and funding 
between brands, waste management systems 
and local government prevents the redesign and 
proper funding of state-of-the-art collection methods, sorting facilities and recycling plants.
The best way to do this is through the concept of 
Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR), under 8
BALL CORPORATIONcircular economy, then the recycling rate needs 
to be close to 100%. We believe that is possible 
by 2030.
Used beverage cans are around 10 times more 
valuable than glass, and around six times 
more valuable than clear PET. Their clean, 
homogenous design, using a material that is 
endlessly recyclable through simple remelting, 
means that the recycling of used beverage cans 
is a profitable activity. Because used cans are 
so sought-after – not only to make new cans, 
but also to make other aluminum products – if a 
can is collected, then it will certainly get recycled 
and stay in the material loop, in contrast to other 
packaging materials.To favor real circularity, higher fees for landfill and 
incineration are needed.
Toward 100% real recycling -  
smarter collection is key
The global recycling rate for aluminum beverage 
cans stands at 69%, making them the world’s 
most recycled beverage container. But there 
are significant regional variations: in Brazil, for 
instance, the rate is 97%,  while the average 
across Europe is 75%  and in the U.S. it is 
50%.  These figures are much better than for 
other beverage and personal care packaging 
materials, but they are still not good enough. 
If aluminum cans are to be a perfect fit for a which – often through legislation – producers 
are made responsible for the cost of take-back, 
recycling and final disposal of their products. 
Higher costs of recycling are normally translated 
into higher EPR fees – which are designed to 
reflect the full, but often hidden, environmental 
and economic costs of goods in the market price.
Through the tiering of EPR fees – charging 
different fees for different materials depending 
on their net recycling costs – policy makers can 
incentivize manufacturers to focus on product 
redesign for optimal circularity. By incorporating 
the real cost of recycling through eco-modulated 
fees, products that are more difficult to recycle 
become more expensive than those that are 
easier to recycle. We see key competitive 
advantages for aluminum packaging in this 
scenario, including brands switching to aluminum 
because of lower fees in EPR systems or even 
negative fees such as exist in Deposit Return 
Systems (DRS) in Norway and Denmark. Our 
own analysis of EPR fees in the European Union 
(excluding the U.K.) shows that between 2014 
and 2019, EPR fees for PET grew by 39% and 
for glass by 13%, while for aluminum cans they 
decreased by 2%.
Another key policy to favor real circularity is 
setting the right tipping / landfill or incineration 
fee. In the U.S., the economic relationship 
between sorting plants and landfill owners is 
a few decades old, going back to a time when 
recycling was not society’s priority. In Europe, 
the same dynamic occurs between waste 
management companies and incineration plants. BEVERAGE CAN RECYCLING RATES AROUND THE WORLD
Latest data available as of June 20209
CIRCULAR ECONOMYcompared with $6 billion for plastics and  
$600 million for glass. 
Aluminum is the most valuable material in the 
recycling stream. While aluminum cans represent 
only about 2.7% of the weight of all recyclable 
materials generated at single-family homes in the 
U.S., they make up nearly 50% of the market value 
from those recyclables.
Aluminum cans can be sorted with proven 
inexpensive technology. Eddy current separators 
are rotating magnets that generate a magnetic 
field that separates aluminum packaging 
from the waste stream. Most existing Material 
Recovery Facilities (MRFs) have some form of 
eddy current separation technology installed to capture aluminum. And we are seeing additional 
investments being made to minimize can losses 
and capture as many valuable cans as possible.
Using a representative sorting plant in Europe  
that processes 80,000 tons of material  
a year with an average aluminum content of 
5.5%, a study conducted by HTP for European 
Aluminium found that using at least two eddy 
current separators can boost the recovery rate  
by 30%, compared to using just one. Using 
separators for the super fine, fine and medium-sized fractions can achieve beverage can recovery 
rates at MRFs of 90%. Adding induction sensors, 
robots and machine learning, MRFs can expect up 
to 96% recovery rates for aluminum packaging.
Aluminum cans are also easily recoverable from 
the municipal solid waste stream. A study in 
Spain from Virtus Environment (2020) shows that These venues need to encourage the greater 
accessibility of recycling bins to allow consumers 
to separate waste as they throw it away. 
Perhaps the most pressing requirement is for 
the greater availability of clearly labeled double 
or even triple bins in public places that offer 
separate collection of recyclables and beverage 
packaging. This needs to become commonplace 
in all main streets, public places, and in offices 
and at events – and must be backed up with 
strong communications campaigns. These extra 
collection points will require funding, and one of 
the ways to keep costs low for the industry is to 
rely on the value of materials recovered more 
than on increasing EPR fees.
In developing countries, informal collection of 
cans by individuals and small-time operators is already achieving close to 100% recycling rates 
in multiple regions. This can be an effective 
way of collecting valuable recyclables in some 
parts of the world (see ‘Supporting the informal 
sector in Myanmar’ 
). The best way to help 
such collectors is to ensure a safe workplace 
and efficient transportation of the separated 
materials, and to educate the public about the 
advantages of beverage can recycling so people 
can support the informal sector by providing easy access to used beverage cans.
The economic case for aluminum separation
Metal recycling has a higher economic impact 
than all other recyclable materials combined. 
In the U.S., for example, the economic impact 
of metal recycling was $55 billion in 2019 The key for cans, therefore, lies not in inventing 
new recycling processes, nor through better product design, but by ensuring that the number 
of cans collected is increased through a focus on 
smarter collection infrastructure (including when 
people are on the go), improving sorting centers 
(which need to be updated with the right number 
and right size of eddy current sorting machines 
to extract the most valuable material from the 
stream), and making it easier for consumers  
to recycle.
There is certainly an opportunity to make 
changes to curbside collection systems so 
households can more conveniently sort  
materials at home. While curbside collection  
can be upgraded in many regions, especially 
in the U.S., there is also a significant need to 
address the widespread lack of infrastructure  
for can collection on public transportation, in 
offices, and at sporting and music events.10
BALL CORPORATIONLaunched in 2014, the Metal Recycles 
Forever logo has proven to be one of 
the most striking and effective ways of 
marketing the benefits of aluminum  
cans around the world.
Using just three words and a closed  
loop symbol, the logo conveys, in the 
simplest terms, the fact that metals  
are infinitely recyclable.
Research carried out in 2019 in the 
U.S., U.K., Brazil and Spain found that 
consumers in each country are ”compelled” 
by aluminum’s infinite recyclability, which 
resonates “strongly” with them, and in particular are “very drawn” to the statistic 
that 75% of aluminum ever produced is 
still in use today.METAL RECYCLES FOREVER
A Trusted Logoone-third of the current aluminum packaging 
losses could be recovered through eddy current 
investments for municipal solid waste. As 
tipping fees increase and incinerators realize 
the attractive paybacks of metal recovery pre- 
and post-incineration, these options are more attractive. We believe that a combination of 
regulations, changing public expectations and 
the development of novel sorting technologies 
will contribute to further increases in aluminum 
packaging recycling rates.
Smart deposit return systems  
for the 21st Century
If we want to achieve recycling rates 
approaching 100%, we also need to  
introduce a modern and convenient DRS in 
which consumers pay a deposit on beverage 
packaging that can be redeemed by returning 
cans to strategically placed collection points.  
In addition, existing DRS need to be modernized,  
as many of the older systems are not well 
designed, some lack sustained funding and 
almost none take advantage of the latest  
digital smart technology. 
All existing DRS are based on an old model of 
consumers lining up with large bags of beverage 
packaging in expensive retail spaces to redeem 
deposits from cumbersome and costly reverse 
vending machines. This is not a convenient option 
for the modern consumer, nor is it useful for the 
person who is out and about and may buy just 
one can on the go, perhaps at a bus station or  
at an open-air event.11
CIRCULAR ECONOMYA new generation of more efficient and cost-
effective DRS can be established, for example, 
through the use of unique packaging coding, 
ensuring only one redeemable deposit is 
associated with each individual container.  
This technology could enable the use of 
inexpensive return hardware such as smart 
recycling bins and simplified reverse vending 
machines. It could be more convenient for 
consumers, still address fraud, and enable 
accurate tracking and traceability.
Ball supports innovations around “smart DRS.” 
We are, for instance, piloting smart can crushers 
in Serbia and trialing individual coding engraved 
in tabs using laser technology. Through the industry body Metal Packaging Europe, we 
are also backing a project to measure the cost advantages of smart versus traditional DRS.
Fair and effective DRS design
There is a growing consensus about what 
constitutes a modern, well-designed and effective DRS, with best-case examples in the 
Scandinavian and Baltic countries. The key 
principles of a 21st century DRS are that it must:
  Take all beverage containers at all sizes  
from all materials
  Allo w for deposit levels to be variable by 
container size, with higher deposits paid on 
larger packaging (as is the case in some of 
the best functioning systems)
  R eflect the true sorting and recycling costs  
of each container (based on the polluter 
pays principle at its best), with each type  
of packaging material required to cover its Self-employed collectors in Myanmar travel 
from house to house, buying used aluminum 
cans. These are sold on until they reach one 
of the country’s five main aggregators, who 
melt and recycle them.
Until recently, it was unclear just how 
efficient informal collection is in Myanmar – 
or what support informal collectors need.  
To gain more insight, we conducted a 
research project and found that, in 2019, 
the weight of used aluminum beverage cans 
collected for recycling was 13,100 metric 
tons in Myanmar, representing a recycling 
rate of 96%.
Based on these findings, we are now 
supporting this success story in two ways: 
by working with suppliers to make it easier 
and cheaper for collectors to get their cans 
to aggregators, and by providing financial 
support for two local non-governmental 
organizations, Thant Myanmar and Clean 
Yangon, to run education campaigns that 
promote can recycling in schools and on 
radio and television.SUPPORTING THE INFORMAL 
SECTOR IN MYANMAR12
BALL CORPORATIONfull net cost without cross-subsidy from 
other materials
  Be subject to design criteria that penalize 
packaging that is difficult to recycle 
  Be supported with significant infrastructure, 
closer to the point of consumption, to avoid 
consumer frustration and long queues
  Incorporate handling fee compensation to 
retailers or other return points on the basis of 
the real costs of collection in each situation
  Keep unredeemed deposits within 
the system
  Use the latest technologies such as bulk 
returns or digitalization
Recycling processes that really work
There is no point in putting a lot of effort into 
collection and sorting if we then lose up to 
20 to 30% of the material during the recycling 
process. This happens with some materials, 
but not with aluminum cans, which simply have 
to be remelted at 700 degrees Celsius.
Only around 1 to 2% of aluminum is lost when 
shredding the bales, and another 2 to 3% due to 
oxidation in the furnace. Total metal losses in the 
recycling process can be between 3 to 5%. When 
factoring in the recycling rate and the material 
losses in recycling, it is clear that, as we move 
near 100% collection, yields really matter. Once 
again, this demonstrates the true advantages 
of the aluminum can.
We believe there is an opportunity to increase 
can-to-can recycling. Today the remelted 
aluminum from used beverage cans is also used 
to make other aluminum products such as cars, building products or less recyclable packaging. 
As recycling rates increase and contamination 
decreases (e.g., through DRS), there will be 
greater opportunities to ensure that cans are 
recycled back into cans. We see this as an 
inherent competitive advantage of our material. 
Already the average recycled content in cans 
today far outweighs any other substrate.
The Ball Cup – circular thinking applied to cups
We have an important role to play in continuing 
to design and launch circular products. Our 
recent product innovation, the Ball Aluminum 
Cup™, is a prime example that satisfies 
consumer desires for truly circular solutions.
Our new portfolio of infinitely recyclable 
aluminum cups, which launched in 2019 in the 
U.S., is becoming increasingly popular as a way 
of boosting recycling rates and avoiding plastic 
waste. The organizers of the 2020 Super Bowl in 
Florida chose aluminum cups as part of a drive 
to eliminate 99.4% of single-use plastics from the venue. Centerplate, the catering partner 
for the stadium where the big game took place, 
plans to eliminate more than 500,000 plastic 
cups at this one venue each year.
Introducing the aluminum cup and raising 
awareness about aluminum packaging’s 
sustainability credentials, as well as the 
importance of recycling, has been a cornerstone 
of the commercialization strategy of our 
aluminum cup business. Our initial introduction 
of the product into high-profile sporting 
and entertainment events will help create 
awareness for the benefits of aluminum as we 
further penetrate the on-premise food service 
marketplace. This sets the stage for the cup’s 
launch in retail and on-premise outlets, including 
grocery, drug and C-stores, specialty channels 
and select mass channel retailers, in 2021.
Encouraging recycling in our communities 
Our global Recycling Can Challenge aims to 
inspire employees to take  steps to promote the 13 CIRCULAR ECONOMYeconomic, environmental and social benefits  
of cans. 2019 participation was especially  
strong in Asia, Middle East and Africa. In  
addition, all of our 13 plants in South America 
either donated cans collected from their 
Recycling Can Challenge activities to waste 
pickers or voluntary organizations in the 
community, or promoted recycling in their communities through education programs  
in schools and on-site tours for students.
In Brazil, our Brasilia plant, for example,  
held recycling workshops for around  
700 schoolchildren, while employees at  
our Santa Cruz plant invited members of  
a cooperative of waste pickers to learn  
about the aluminum can production process.
In 2019, we arranged promotional events in  
India aimed at retailers and consumers in 
the states of Karnataka and Maharashtra, 
supported by communications on Facebook 
 
and Instagram,  and established an outreach 
campaign to disseminate messages about aluminum can recycling to more than 100 media outlets across major cities in India.
Every Can Counts
In Europe, the Every Can Counts (ECC) program,
 an industry initiative supported by Ball, 
operates in 14 countries to encourage people 
to recycle the cans they consume outside of 
their homes. ECC focuses on getting messages 
across in a fun way, in particular at sporting 
events, festivals, schools and universities, and in 
shopping centers and parks.Our new range of lightweight Infinity 
aluminum bottles are designed to provide 
a circular solution to plastic pollution.
Available in various shapes, sizes and 
formats, the bottles can be customized for use as food and beverage containers, 
as well as for beauty and personal care 
products – for example, as an alternative 
to plastic shampoo bottles and jars  
for cosmetics.
They are ideal for all kinds of products, 
from body creams and soap to alcoholic 
spirits, energy shots, yogurt, dressings, syrups and condiments. The bottles  
can be branded without the use of  
sleeves or labels, via printing directly  
onto the aluminum.
With a reclosable threaded cap that 
allows consumers to twist the top on and 
off, the bottles are, of course, infinitely 
recyclable, and can be turned into other 
aluminum products over and over again.OUR NEW  
ALUMINUM BOTTLE14
BALL CORPORATIONbottles to aluminum cans for their brands,  
partly prompted by local municipalities’ bans  
on on-premise sales of plastic water bottles. 
Many hotels, office-based businesses and 
retailers are now doing all they can to remove 
plastics from their operations, and pressure is 
growing on manufacturers to respond.
One consequence of these strong trends is that 
demand for aluminum cans is growing rapidly, 
especially for use with beverages that may not 
have traditionally been associated with cans, 
such as water, coffee and tea. The proportion 
of new products launched in cans is on the 
rise, particularly in the U.S., where 67% of new 
beverage launches in 2019 were in aluminum 
cans, up from 50% in 2018 and just 36% in 2015. 
In Europe, 22% of new product launches were 
exclusively in cans – up 5% from 2018.ECC was also present at five major music 
festivals in the region of Galicia in Spain during 
2019, working with the beer company Estrella 
Galicia, which sponsored each event, to promote 
recycling to 200,000 festival goers.
How the market is choosing aluminum  
based on its true recyclability
Prompted by consumer pressure and 
governmental action, beverage producers  
are increasingly integrating the environmental attributes of packaging options into their 
business decisions, resulting in a move away 
from a sole focus on cost and toward a 
consideration of economic and environmental 
impacts along the entire life cycle.
In 2019, a number of beverage manufacturers 
around the world switched from plastic water In the U.K. in 2019, ECC had a presence at more 
than 30 music festivals and sporting occasions 
attended by more than one million people, allowing representatives to talk directly to approximately 10,000 people about recycling.
In Montenegro, ECC has been working on 
promotion and educational initiatives with  
Ozone, a local non-governmental organization, 
and in Austria a virtual reality game has helped 
to convey important recycling messages to 
young people, including at beach volleyball  
and MotoGP events.
At the 2019 Red Bull Moto Grand Prix event in 
Milan, Italy, watched by 158,300 spectators, 
around 15,000 people visited the ECC exhibition, 
with 30,000 cans recycled over the three days.As an agile, independent company, we know 
AMI is uniquely positioned to help address the need for sustainable bottled water solutions and we are proud to provide an environmentally friendly brand celebrating  
the infinite recyclability of aluminum.
MICHAEL KIRBAN  
CEO of All Market Inc.  
(Vita Coco, RUNA, and Ever & Ever)
15
CIRCULAR ECONOMYClimate change is a defining issue of our time. All of our 
stakeholders want to know what we are doing to make  
our products low carbon and more sustainable. 
Investors are now looking seriously at the risks and 
opportunities associated with climate change, and 
governments and global organizations are considering 
regulatory action in line with the Paris Climate 
Agreement’s objective of limiting global warming  
to under 1.5 °C. 
At Ball we are committed to reducing our impact on 
climate change, as this is critical to the company’s long-
term success. We are doing this through a combination of 
renewable energy use, actions to increase recycling rates, 
and the adoption of science-based targets on operational 
efficiency which are putting us in a leadership position in 
our industry. 
This focus is now driving transformational change 
throughout the business. Doing so is imperative to 
Ball’s future, and will ensure aluminum as a low carbon 
packaging of choice. We are determined to address the 
challenges that the movement to low carbon economy 
brings, and also to seize the opportunities. We are doing 
this by setting ambitious emission reduction goals and 
taking the measures necessary to deliver on those goals. 
Aligning with the latest climate science
In 2019 we set an ambitious new target of achieving 
a 55% absolute reduction in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from our own operations by 2030, despite expectations that the business will experience We see ambitious targets 
and collaboration as key to reducing the carbon footprint of our products 
16
BALL CORPORATIONfor a transition to a low-carbon economy. 
Climate Summit discussions focused on four  
key concepts: 1) embedding the cost of  
carbon; 2) transformative process innovation;  
3) igniting ownership; and 4)  addressing value 
chain emissions.
Switching to renewable energy 
By driving forward a transition to renewable 
energy across all operations, we make further 
strides toward our science-based target.
In 2019, we signed two landmark 15-year  
virtual power purchase agreements for  
388 megawatts of new renewable energy  
in North America, generated by wind and  
solar power. As a result, we will be addressing 
100% of our electricity load in North America  
with renewable energy by the end of 2021.  
This will allow us to effectively reduce our global 
Scope 2 GHG emissions by 50%; the equivalent 
of removing 180,000 passenger vehicles from 
the road annually. 
With our science-based targets in mind,  
we are also moving quickly to focus on other 
markets, and have increased our commitment 
to sourcing renewable energy in Europe. Here 
we have signed two long-term virtual power 
purchase agreements, one in Spain and one  
in Sweden, covering the electricity load of  
10 beverage packaging plants.  
These agreements will provide 93 megawatts  
of wind energy, addressing 63% of our European 
beverage electricity load (excluding Russia) by unprecedented growth during this period. The 
target aligns with the latest climate science 
reported by the Intergovernmental Panel on 
Climate Change, a global body of climate experts 
which has announced that global warming 
should be limited to 1.5°C above pre-industrial 
levels if its worst impacts are to be avoided.
Our 1.5°C target was approved in early 2020  
by the Science Based Target Initiative,   
an international governing body that 
independently assesses and approves 
companies’ GHG goals. We are the first 
aluminum can manufacturer to adopt a  
science-based target. We will aim to meet  
the 55% target in two main ways: by switching to renewable energy and by improving energy 
efficiency in our manufacturing processes.
By setting such an ambitious goal, we are 
striving not only to help with global efforts 
on climate change, but to improve Ball’s 
performance and to help our customers  
reach their own emissions reduction  
targets – which rely heavily on the carbon 
footprint of our aluminum cans. Providing 
support for our customers in this way  
provides us with a commercial advantage  
and is a key example of how sustainability 
supports the strategy that drives our business. 
We began to transform the way we embed 
climate change throughout our business in 2019 
with our first internal Climate Summit. Sixty 
leaders from across the company gathered to 
generate and commit to actions that will meet 
our ambitious targets and prepare the company 2021 and enabling us to reduce Scope 2 GHG 
emissions in Europe by approximately 60%; equivalent to removing 47,000 passengers  
from the road annually.
In May 2020 we purchased energy attribute 
certificates (EACs) to fully cover our operations  
in the European Union, Serbia and the U.K. 
through 2020. Our strategy in Europe is to 
increasingly address our electricity load with 
renewable energy agreements, and until then, 
fulfill the rest with EACs.
Improving energy efficiency 
At the same time as we are driving to reach 
100% renewable energy around the world, we 
are also improving energy efficiency at all of our manufacturing plants. We tailor energy 
use reduction strategies to each of our plants, 
which commit to annual energy goals supported 
by detailed action plans. Real-time energy 
information systems delivered by energy meters 
provide higher visibility into our operations 
17
CLIMATE CHANGEthis area, in which air compressors and ovens 
use significant amounts of energy. 
Electricity
In 2019 a global team of regional staff 
developed a compressed air global standard 
for new construction projects to ensure future 
energy efficiency. Every year we conduct 
assessments of our compressed air systems and optimize performance by reducing system 
pressure, minimizing wasteful air use and leaks, 
decreasing manufacturing equipment demand, 
and upgrading compressed air equipment. 
For example, an energy efficient compressor was 
installed during 2019 at our Milton Keynes plant 
in the United Kingdom, saving 1,172 megawatt-
hours of electricity annually. 
Our Monterrey, Mexico, plant has also been able 
to save 594 metric tons of GHG emissions each 
year by using sophisticated compressors, which 
automatically shift to standby when they are not 
being used. Natural Gas
Through oven audits, optimization projects  
and fostering increased employee awareness  
of oven energy use, we have realized natural  
gas efficiency gains in our can businesses of  
11% between 2012 and 2019. 
A 2019 program at our Tampa plant in the  
U.S., for example, led to the replacement of  
eight inefficient oven burners and the rebuilding 
of another four, saving 4,886 megawatt-hours 
of energy from gas annually. In Taloja, India, the 
installation of new standby settings on ovens is 
saving 741 megawatt-hours each year. 
All of these measures, and others, have led to 
energy efficiency gains in our Global Beverage 
Packaging business. Between 2015 and 2019 
Ball reduced its absolute energy usage for 
its beverage packaging business by 8%. The 
amount of energy needed to produce one 
beverage can fell by 5% from 2015 to the  
end of 2019.
Emissions in our value chain
As part of our science-based target, we will aim 
to cut greenhouse gas emissions 16% across our 
value chain by 2030. 
Around 80% of the GHG emissions associated 
with our products come from within our value 
chain rather than our own operations. We 
collaborate with our value chain partners to 
make a difference in this area, both ‘upstream’ 
in the products and services we purchase from 
suppliers, and ‘downstream’ in the way our 
products are collected, sorted and recycled. at the equipment level so that we can better 
understand, manage, report on and benchmark 
the performance of energy-consuming 
processes. At year-end 2019, 54% of our  
plants had energy monitoring systems. 
Every year Ball invests in installing high energy 
efficient equipment in new plants, and repairing 
and replacing less efficient old equipment in existing plants. On top of this routine work, in 
2019 we also invested $4.02 million in energy 
efficiency measures that are expected to deliver electricity savings of approximately 24.6 million 
kilowatt-hours and natural gas savings of  
18.9 million kilowatt-hours, resulting in more than 15,000 metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions 
savings. Around two-thirds of GHG emissions in 
Ball’s direct operations stem from electricity, with 
the remainder from on-site fuel combustion.
As our Global Beverage Packaging business 
accounts for most of our energy consumption 
(90% of our total of 4,403 thousand megawatt 
hours in 2019), much of our focus is directed in 
18
BALL CORPORATIONDESIGNING CANS WITH A SMALLER FOOTPRINT 
One specific way of lowering our product 
carbon footprint is through weight 
optimization in cans. Although we have 
been taking weight out of our products for 
decades, we are determined to continue 
to make them weigh even less without 
impacting their inherent qualities. Since 
the 1980s, the weight of Ball cans has been 
reduced by around a third, resulting in less 
raw material use and lower GHG emissions.
Through weight optimization in 2019,  
we reduced aluminum use in our beverage 
and aerosol packaging businesses by more 
than 5,000 metric tons, which equates to 
saving more than 16,336 metric tons of  
GHG emissions, or the average emissions  
of 3,550 U.S. passenger vehicles per year. 
Our next generation STARcan in Europe, 
South America and North America is setting 
new standards for weight optimization. Compared to preceding beverage cans of 
the same size, it reduces weight by between 
3% and 8%, further lowering the carbon 
footprint of our products and contributing 
to our science-based target. Once fully 
integrated globally, we expect it to save 
approximately 30,000 metric tons of metal 
each year, or the equivalent to nearly 
200,000 metric tons of GHG emissions.
In addition, Ball’s aerosol packaging 
business has developed ReAl®, a lightweight 
alternative to standard aluminum slugs used 
in aerosol can manufacturing. ReAl® permits 
up to a 20% lighter container than standard 
aluminum and provides up to an 18% lower 
carbon footprint. Visit our All About  
ReAl®  page to learn more about this 
innovative technology. 19
CLIMATE CHANGETo move from linear to circular thinking, this 
study also applied the Material Circularity 
Indicator (MCI) methodology developed by  
the Ellen MacArthur Foundation.  Related 
scores allow interested parties to understand to what extent different packaging options 
are a good fit for the circular economy.  
MCI scores range from 0.1, a linear product, 
to 1, a perfectly circular product. In all three regions, aluminum cans achieve the best material circularity scores of any single-use packaging option. Despite the fact that 
beverage cartons are challenging to recycle, 
the MCI methodology considers paperboard from sustainable sources as fully circular.
The study results underline that by increasing 
efficiencies in our own operations and within our supply chain, switching our electricity use to renewable energy and – most importantly – working with our customers, suppliers and 
other partners to increase recycling rates, 
the environmental profile of aluminum cans can be further enhanced, making cans a low carbon and circular package of choice.
The full LCA report, regional summaries and 
additional information about the LCA can be found online. 
 LATEST COMPARATIVE LCA UNDERLINES THE OPPORTUNITY FOR ALUMINUM CANS 
U.S. CARBON FOOTPRINT PER GALLON
U.S. MATERIAL CIRCULARITY INDICATOR SCORELife cycle assessment (LCA) is a valuable tool to track the carbon footprint of our products. In 2020, we published a peer-
reviewed comparative LCA for aluminum 
beverage cans, PET and glass bottles, as well as beverage cartons in Brazil, Europe and the United States. Among other findings, the study revealed that recycling is a key factor when it comes to the sustainability profile of 
all substrates.
To the right is a representative example  
for the LCA analysis of the U.S. Here, the  
LCA found that with today’s actual recycling 
rates and recycled content, aluminum cans have a lower carbon footprint compared  
with glass bottles and PET bottles for carbonated beverages.
This LCA also covered various sensitivity 
analysis and scenarios. For example, it  
shows that beverage cans have the most 
carbon footprint variability when recycling 
rates, recycled content, and container weights are changed. Therefore, the cans’ environmental impacts will benefit more  
than other substrates from increasing recycling rates, higher recycled content  
and lower container weights.
NC = Non-carbondated C = Carbondated ATB = Ball Alumi-Tek® bottleTRACI 2.1 : Global Warming Air, excl. biogenic carbon (kgC02 eq.)Alu 12 oz
Alu 16 oz
Alu 16 oz (ATB)
PET 12 oz (C)
PET 16.9 oz (C)
PET 16.9 oz (NC)
Glass 12 oz
Glass 16 oz
Carton 11.1 oz
Carton 16.9 oz
0 300 600 120020
BALL CORPORATIONinvesting in recycling around the globe, as 
outlined in the Circular Economy section.
However, where primary material is used, the 
industry is also working to reduce its energy 
consumption. The carbon intensity of primary 
aluminum production in Europe decreased 
by 21% between 2005 and 2010, and there 
has been a significant decrease in the carbon 
intensity of semi-fabrication processes in  
Europe. The carbon intensity of the aluminum 
rolling process falling by 25% from 2010 to 2015 
and by 11% for the extrusion process over the 
same period.
The carbon intensity of primary aluminum 
production in the U.S. and Canada declined  
by 26% between 1995 and 2010.GLOBAL 2030 PRODUCT CARBON FOOTPRINT REDUCTION PATHWAY
We are able, for instance, to work with various 
stakeholders to cut GHG emissions by increasing 
recycling rates (as we explain in our Circular 
Economy section), and we can also help to 
reduce downstream emissions (such as through 
transportation) by lightweighting our cans (see 
‘Designing cans with a smaller footprint’). 
Cutting energy use in our value chain
Because recycled aluminum uses 95% less 
energy than primary aluminum, the most 
effective way of achieving our science-based 
target of a 16% reduction in value chain GHG 
emissions, and of reducing the carbon footprint of our products, is to raise recycling rates, which 
increases the recycled content of the aluminum 
can sheet that we use. That is why we are This pathway is based upon LCA calculations using the Product Environmental Footprint Guidelines, 
taking into account measures outside of Ball’s direct control.
2015  
Beverage CanEfficiency  
Improvements  
Ball operationsRenewable  
Electricity  
Ball operationsWeight Reductions  
(including 100%  
switch to sleek cans)Global Recycling  
Rate 90% & Average  
Recycled Content 85%Supply Chain  
Technology  
Improvements2030  
Beverage Can21
CLIMATE CHANGEin absolute terms by 3.9% to 434,670 metric 
tons of GHG emissions in 2019, but fell by  
0.2% on normalized performance compared to 
2018. On a 2015 baseline, scope 1 emissions 
were down by 3.5% on normalized performance. 
Total GHG emissions during 2019 in our value 
chain (scope 3) stood at 8.6 million metric tons  
of GHG emissions – up by 1.7% on the previous 
year due to increased production. 
These figures show the extent of our task – and 
our ambition – in aiming to reduce absolute 
emissions by 55% by 2030 against a background of an expected continuation in production output.
Expanding disaster relief support
The consensus of scientific opinion suggests that 
with climate change comes the likelihood of more 
frequent natural disasters. As a long-standing 
supporter of disaster preparedness and relief Ball’s overall carbon footprint
Total GHG emissions during 2019 in our own 
operations (scope 1 and 2) stood at 1.24 million 
metric tons of GHG emissions – up by 1.3% in 
absolute terms due to increased production, 
but down by 3.6% on normalized performance 
compared to 2018, and down by 15% on 
normalized performance compared to our  
2015 baseline.
Within this total, 2019 scope 2 emissions – from 
electricity purchased by Ball – remained virtually 
the same as the previous year in absolute terms, 
at 808,272 metric tons of GHG emissions. This 
marks a 5.3% reduction in normalized scope 
2 emissions compared to 2019. On a 2015 
baseline, scope 2 emissions were down by  
20% on normalized performance. 
Scope 1 emissions – from activities such as gas 
burning, vehicle use and air-conditioning – rose efforts, our partnership with the American  
Red Cross and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies helps to 
ensure that assistance gets to disaster areas 
when it is most needed.
Globally, Ball Corporation and The Ball 
Foundation have contributed more than  
$2 million in cash and in-kind donations to Red 
Cross efforts since 2017. Ball also partners with 
several beverage customers to donate millions of 
cans of clean drinking water to disaster victims. 
Around the world, our employees also  
donated more than 1,000 volunteer hours and 
$78,000 of matched cash donations to disaster 
preparedness efforts in 2019. Our work with 
charitable partners covered 21 international 
disasters throughout the year, including 15 that 
affected locations where Ball has operations.Our focus on CO 2 reductions began a decade ago and 
continues today with improvements in emissions and 
energy reduction. We have invested over $160 million in recycling capabilities with technology that allows us to convert post-consumer scraps and used beverage cans into usable raw materials.
HENRY GORDINIER  
President & CEO  
Tri-Arrows Aluminum  
22
BALL CORPORATIONTRACKING EMISSIONS FROM SPACE
Beyond efforts to reduce greenhouse 
gas emissions in our value chain, we can 
also use our advanced capabilities and 
technologies to monitor these emissions 
from space.
In 2019, Ball Aerospace signed a contract 
with MethaneSAT LLC, a subsidiary of 
the Environmental Defense Fund (EDF), 
to develop an advanced remote sensing 
instrument that will detect regional and 
point source methane emissions across 
the globe from space. The MethaneSAT 
mission will help companies and countries 
develop strategies to reduce those 
emissions while supporting EDF’s goal 
of achieving a 45% reduction in methane 
emissions from the oil and gas sector  
by 2025.
Existing satellites can either map  
large-scale methane emissions across 
broad geographic areas or make more 
precise measurements at specific 
locations. MethaneSAT will serve both 
functions — providing regional-scale high precision measurements globally.  
Ball Aerospace spectrometers at the 
heart of the mission will measure  
methane concentration in a column of  
air observed by the MethaneSAT satellite. 
Once positioned over a target area, the 
spectrometers can detect methane 
concentrations as low as two parts per 
billion, the equivalent to sensing a couple 
of colored dye drops in a 10,000-gallon 
swimming pool.
Ball Aerospace has extensive experience 
providing high-accuracy environmental 
data for applications, including atmospheric science, operational  
weather, quantitative land use and air 
quality assessments. The MethaneSAT 
mission builds on our long history of 
developing space-based instruments and 
missions to support critical Earth science, 
while underscoring our commitment to 
sustainability. The mission is expected to 
launch in 2022.23
CLIMATE CHANGEWe aim to use water responsibly by 
reducing demand on supplies across 
our value chain and by maintaining or improving its quality when we use it Why water matters to us
Water is essential across our value chain – for our 
suppliers, who harness it in the refining, smelting and rolling processes that turn bauxite into aluminum can sheets; in our own manufacturing processes (including through can washers and cooling towers); and for our 
customers, whose beverages and agriculture-based 
ingredients, such as barley, hops and fruit, depend  
on water. 
While the availability of water is important to our business 
continuity, so too is water quality, for if the water we  
source is of poor quality, then we will have to invest in  
more pre-treatment. We install wastewater treatment technologies to ensure our operations do not adversely 
affect water quality near our plants – something that 
could lead to reputational damage within the communities in which we operate and beyond.
Water-related risks are, therefore, important to us. By 
making sure that we have continued access to high quality water and we use it responsibly, we can reduce those risks, cut costs and lessen our impact on the environment. 
As various regions around the world, become more  
water stressed due to factors such as population growth, 
water-intensive food and energy demands, pollution and climate change, we recognize that companies such 
as ours must play their part in maintaining or improving 
water quality and reducing demands on water supplies across the value chain. 
At all our plants around the world we are working to 
minimize water use and to maintain water quality by  
re-evaluating the design of our can washers, re-using water, training employees and implementing innovative water-saving and treatment projects. 24
BALL CORPORATIONconsumption in its water cooling system, saving 
1,000 cubic meters. Our plants in high risk areas are also implementing water saving and water 
quality measures. In Taloja, India, for instance, 
our plant is saving 20,000 cubic meters of water each year through rainwater harvesting and the use of reverse osmosis water filtration systems in its cooling tower. 
While all of our plants are aware of the need 
to conserve water and maintain its quality, the WRI tool has allowed us to focus our main water stewardship efforts on those areas with 
highest water risk. Together with Ball’s Enterprise 
Intelligence unit, 
 we also analyze weather Mapping our water-related risks 
By making use of the globally recognized WRI 
Aqueduct tool,  we have established that the 
majority of our beverage packaging plants today (57%) are in low or low-to-medium water risk 
locations, with 23% in medium-to-high risk areas. 
However, 18.5% are in high risk areas, with the remaining 1.5% designated as extremely high risk. 
To assess overall water risk levels, WRI 
considers issues such as water stress, baseline depletion, interannual and seasonal variability, groundwater table decline, coastal and riverine flood risks, drought propensity, untreated wastewater, coastal eutrophication potential  
and the availability of drinking water.
One plant identified as being in an extremely 
high-risk area is the Sri City facility in India, 
due to several factors including risk of drought, riverine flood and coastal eutrophication potential. There we have implemented a series of measures – including reverse osmosis projects and manufacturing efficiencies - that are saving 
33,000 cubic meters of water annually. These 
changes have allowed the plant to continue to function efficiently with no detrimental impact  
on water availability or quality in the area.
Among plants that have made notable 
reductions in water use are our facility in Monterrey, Mexico, which saved 29,000 cubic meters of water in 2019 through reducing the 
consumption of its can washers by 19%, and 
our facility in Cabanillas, Spain, which reduced patterns and assess related impacts to prepare for potential disruptions in our value chain caused by hurricanes, water pollution, flooding, 
drought or sea level rises. 
Our water footprint
In 2019, we used 9,450,203 cubic meters of 
water worldwide in our own operations, up from 9,284,933 cubic meters in 2018. Global Beverage Packaging accounted for 94% of the total. More than 90% of the water we use in our 
plants is sent to a municipal treatment plant, 
then returned to watersheds, with most of the remainder evaporating. 
ANNUAL GLOBAL WATER CONSUMPTION
in m325
WATER STEWARDSHIPNotable water-saving initiatives introduced  
in 2019 included:
  Replacing traditional deionizing water 
filtration, which removes minerals from 
water by exposing it to electrically charged resins with reverse osmosis systems that 
use a partially permeable membrane to do 
the same job. Water that has been treated through reverse osmosis can be recirculated and re-used more easily than water that has been deionized. At our Três Rios, Brazil, plant this switch has saved 7,000 cubic meters of 
water annually
  A dditional re-use of the water flow on can 
washers at plants in Extrema and Pouso 
Alegre in Brazil, Fort Atkinson in the U.S.  and Fosie in Sweden, saving a combined 76,000 cubic meters of water annually
  R eturning water to the production cycle  
at our Vsevolozhsk, Russia, plant after it is used in cooling towers and in deionizing 
systems, saving 12,000 cubic meters a year. 
In addition, in 2018 the plant implemented a rainwater reuse project, which reduced water consumption by 48%
  I nstallation at our Buenos Aires, Argentina, 
plant of two new washer systems that save 52,560 cubic meters per year compared  
to previous washers
  I mproved training of employees at seven 
European plants, including on how to measure and interpret water usage, how  The AMA can is an innovation in the market: 
one more option for consumers who, in addition to staying hydrated, will be able to help the environment and people who live without access to drinking water.
RICHARD LEE  
Head of Sustainability,  
Ambev
As can washing is our most water-intensive 
process, accounting for about two-thirds of water consumption in a beverage can plant, 
we focus many of our efforts on making 
improvements in this area. Over the past  
12 years we have reduced the water consumption of washers by 69% through improvements to washer design. 
We are working toward water efficiency 
standardization globally, in order to document and share our best practices and development in machine design. We have also been working 
across different plants to update machinery, 
introduce new water-saving concepts and  
to re-educate plant employees on water  
saving measures. 
26
BALL CORPORATIONEvery day for more than 45 years, Landsat satellites operated by the United 
States Geological Survey (USGS) have provided essential measurements 
to inform decisions about natural resource management. Ball Aerospace 
partners with NASA and USGS to develop imaging technologies that enable 
the Landsat program to build on its historic data archive and provide critical 
information about global water resources. 
From helping farmers eliminate wasteful overwatering of crops to reducing 
water pollution related to land use, Landsat’s space-based insights impact 
millions of people worldwide by supporting informed decision-making on 
how limited water resources are allocated, such as managing water usage  
in arid regions, settling water rights disputes and anticipating and 
responding to water shortages. 
Ball Aerospace designed and built the Operational Land Imager (OLI)    
for Landsat 8. The most advanced Landsat imager launched to date, OLI 
has demonstrated excellent performance since entering orbit in 2013, 
enabling new coastal and inland water science. In 2019, Ball delivered 
a second OLI instrument for the Landsat 9 mission, which is expected to 
launch in 2021.
As part of NASA’s Sustainable Land Imaging program, Ball Aerospace  
is demonstrating innovative new land imaging instruments that will  
improve Landsat measurements while significantly reducing size and  
cost. These instruments will lower costs associated with building and 
launching Landsat satellites, ultimately ensuring high-quality Landsat  
data will remain available to the public for decades to come. MONITORING WATER FROM SPACE27
WATER STEWARDSHIPIn aluminum production
According to data gathered by the International Aluminium Institute, 
 about 16 cubic meters 
of fresh water and 11 cubic meters of sea water are consumed per metric ton of aluminum ingot produced, mainly to process the bauxite, 
manage dust emissions, generate hydroelectric 
power and for cooling. Once the aluminum has been produced, the subsequent rolling process, which provides us with sheets for can making, consumes another 7 cubic meters of water per metric ton. 
Much of the world’s aluminum production takes 
place in regions of Canada, Scandinavia and Russia, where water availability is often not 
an issue. Nonetheless, in areas where water 
availability is scarcer, our aluminum suppliers are working to minimize consumption by reducing water intake, recycling water back into processes, where possible, and by setting 
water use reduction goals. At several refineries, 
for instance, water is reclaimed from bauxite residue, which can then be circulated back into the refining process. 
In beverage production
Given the large amounts of water needed to grow crops for ingredients that go into many beverages, plus the water that forms the basis  
of the drinks themselves, water stewardship is  
a high priority for our customers. Water footprint studies suggest, for example, 
that it takes between 10 and 30 liters of water  
to produce 1 liter of beer, due both to the amount 
of liquid involved in growing barley and hops, and the water used in the actual production process. Beer producers are working to minimize water 
usage in the brewing process and are working 
with farmers to reduce water consumption in  
the growing of their crops, for instance, by using  
drip-feed irrigation systems on fields.
Some brewers, for example, advise farmers on 
improving soil quality through reduced tilling and increased planting of companion crops, coupled with the installation of modernized irrigation systems and the monitoring of soil moisture 
to reduce overwatering. Sometimes satellite 
technology built by Ball Aerospace 
 assists 
farmers in identifying areas where careful  
water management is needed.
Soft drinks companies, which typically use 
around 2 liters of water to make 1 liter of  
product, work in similar ways, and some have made commitments to replenish more water 
than they use, in particular by working with 
suppliers in agriculture and with manufacturers such as ourselves. This improves water efficiency, reduces consumption, supports sustainable farming practices and helps with investments  
in community water projects.to re-use water in various processes and 
how to conduct trials – leading directly to 
cuts of around 30% in the amount of water used for can washing. 
Water in our value chain
Water is crucial both for aluminum production 
and, further down the line, as a primary 
ingredient in our customers’ beverages. 
Aluminum production processes typically use 
about 12 times more water than it takes to make 
the can, while production of the beverages that are put into the can may use up to 200 times more water, depending on the product and region in question. 28
BALL CORPORATIONIn 2019, in partnership with our customer Molson Coors Beverage Company, 
we donated 300,000 cans of water to people in the U.S. and the Bahamas 
during the immediate aftermath of Hurricane Dorian, and also to residents 
affected by tornadoes in Ohio and general flooding across the U.S. 
The cans for the Bahamas were distributed locally by the Bahamas Red 
Cross. In Ohio, they were delivered to residents via a food bank in the city  
of Dayton. 
In all cases, the cans of water were also made available to first responder 
emergency personnel who helped victims of the disasters. 
Molson Coors Beverage Company launched its water donation program in 
partnership with Ball in 2017, and together we have committed to providing 
more than two million cans of water to the Red Cross to help communities 
affected by disasters in the period up to 2021. At the end  of 2019, more 
than 1.2 million cans had already been donated.PARTNERING TO BRING AID
2017-2019  
1,225,000 CANS DONATED29
WATER STEWARDSHIPWe collaborate with our suppliers 
to improve their sustainability 
and reduce impactsStrategic and responsible sourcing
With increasing demand for aluminum around the world, 
we need to focus on sustaining a consistent supply while also mitigating any environmental, social and governance (ESG) impacts related to that supply. We do this by working directly with our suppliers to embed our  
strategic sourcing framework, which incorporates sustainability criteria. 
There are various ESG impacts in our upstream supply 
chain, and the most significant ones occur in the 
production of the aluminum that we buy. Mining of bauxite, for example, is associated with safety, biodiversity and human rights issues, while smelting, casting and rolling requires significant amounts of energy and generates 
greenhouse gas emissions. Consideration of ESG issues is 
at the forefront of our mind when we source our materials.
Many of our strategic suppliers have well-established 
sustainability programs. We maintain continuous dialogue 
with them so that we can collaborate to reduce impacts. We also engage in various cross-industry platforms that promote sustainability.
In addition, as outlined in the Circular Economy chapter, 
   
as Ball continues to improve the circularity of aluminum 
cans, we will achieve reduced impacts across the  
supply chain.
Leading the industry on certification 
Ball became a member of the Aluminum Stewardship 
Initiative (ASI)  in 2012 and, in conjunction with NGOs 
30
BALL CORPORATIONCONFIDENCE IN COATINGS
we use, as well as other materials such as 
sealants and varnishes. Cradle to Cradle™  
material health certification requires product 
ingredients to be inventoried throughout the 
supply chain and evaluated for their impact 
on human and environmental health. 
Once assessed by a third party, a product 
can be assigned a Material Health Certificate 
at an achievement level of basic, bronze, 
silver, gold or platinum, upon meeting certain 
requirements. To date, more than one-third 
of our European coatings, sealants, and 
varnishes have received a material health 
certification. These certificates provide a 
foundation for confidence in formulations  
and suggest roadmaps for improvement  
so that we can continue to offer our 
customers a variety of coating solutions.We work proactively with our suppliers to 
develop coatings that are effective and meet 
expectations for transparency and safety. 
 These coatings have, for many years, 
included trace amounts of bisphenol A (BPA). 
Acting in response to stakeholder feedback, 
we have developed with our suppliers a 
new generation of coatings that contain no 
intentionally added BPA. In partnership with 
our customers, we have already converted 
a significant portion of our business to 
these new coatings, and we expect that this 
transition will speed up as more and more 
customers select this option. 
As part of our broader vision to create 
more transparency and confidence in the 
aluminum beverage can, we have gone 
further and are seeking Cradle to Cradle™ 
material health certification for coatings 31
RESPONSIBLE SOURCINGBall Enterprise Intelligence (BEI)  draws 
on 140 years of business experience and 
more than 60 years of technical expertise 
in aerospace and remote sensing to deliver 
intelligence to industry leaders through 
trusted partnerships.
In addition to its work for external clients, 
BEI also addresses high-value strategic 
questions for Ball. As the world faces a climate crisis and energy transition, BEI is 
increasing its visibility of specific threats and 
opportunities to Ball’s business. Its experts 
have mapped and profiled energy assets 
that power Ball’s supply chain to better 
inform resilience planning. Additionally, 
BEI has created real-time and future-
looking water risk models to improve our 
understanding of the short- and long-term 
impacts of the changing climate on our 
assets and those of our value chain partners.
By taking steps to improve our own supply  
chain visibility, BEI is informing the 
sustainability discussion across our business 
to ensure long-term success for everyone in the communities within which we operate.USING OUR OWN EXPERTISE32
BALL CORPORATIONhas been accomplished, and once some of our 
customers have also completed a simplified certification, ASI-certified cans will hit the 
shelves. This will enable beverage brands to 
showcase their responsible sourcing practices and demonstrate how they can drive positive change in their value chains.
Supplier collaboration 
Since 2013 we have used our in-house 
Responsible Sourcing Framework to assess  
the ESG risks and performance of all key 
suppliers and to engage with them on 
sustainability matters. The framework is  
based on a four-step approach:
1:
  W e draw up sustainability profiles for 
procurement categories such as aluminum 
or other direct materials, outlining the most material ESG risks by category. 
2:
  W e require all suppliers to comply with our 
Supplier Guiding Principles,  which cover 
areas such as employment practices, human rights, environment, health and safety, 
antitrust activities, and bribery and corruption. 
In addition, we provide suppliers with our  
conflict minerals policy, 
 and slavery and  
human trafficking statement.  
3:  W e develop individual sustainability profiles 
of key suppliers based on site-specific online self-assessment questionnaires, which we require them to complete. In addition, Sedex, 
the supplier ethical data exchange, collects 
information on the inherent risk factors (such and industry partners, crafted the ASI standards, which were launched in late 2017. In early 2020  
 all 23 of our beverage can plants in the 
Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) region were certified to the ASI standards, making us 
the first beverage can manufacturer to achieve 
this distinction. Now, we are working toward ASI certification for all of our packaging businesses by the end of 2022.
We became the first business to receive ASI 
certification in 18 countries in parallel, and in some of those countries, such as Egypt, Finland, Poland, Saudi Arabia, Serbia and Turkey, the first company of any kind to be ASI certified.
We achieved both ASI’s Performance 
 and 
Chain of Custody   standard certifications.  
The Performance standard is a measure of how 
much effort a company is making to assess, 
manage and disclose its ESG impacts – including 
on issues such as life-cycle thinking, recycling, greenhouse gas emissions, water and waste management, biodiversity, business integrity and the human rights of both workers and local communities. The Chain of Custody standard 
sets out requirements for the creation of a 
chain of custody throughout the entire value chain, which, in our case, covers all areas from mining and re-melting to casting, rolling, can manufacturing and filling. 
We are working to encourage all our aluminum 
suppliers to have their supplying rolling mills ASI certified, as well as all upstream processes 
from mining to casting and remelting. Once that as geographic location) faced by our suppliers. 
This data is combined to identify an overall 
level of supplier risk, and we may request 
actions from suppliers to reduce this risk,  
if necessary. As of January 2020, 27%  
of our key suppliers had low risk profiles,  
with the remainder classified as medium, 
mainly as a result of their geographical 
location. The level of risk assigned to each supplier helps us to identify the likelihood  
of risks in our supply chain.
4:  We take remedial action, if necessary.  
If a supplier scores below expectations we work with them to develop a continuous 
improvement plan. If there is no evidence  
of improved performance across the following 
calendar year, then we may undertake an ethical audit to investigate the issue and agree on corrective actions. If identified gaps are not closed, we may decide to terminate business 
relations with a supplier.33
RESPONSIBLE SOURCINGWe have established a dedicated D&I 
function to build on our commitment 
to, and systemic investment in, D&I across the company Ball’s commitment to Diversity and Inclusion
Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) is imbedded in our Drive for 
10 strategy and is key to the long-term success of our 
business. Four years ago we established a dedicated  
D&I function to build on our commitment to, and systemic 
investment in, D&I across the company. During the past 
several years we have made good progress on D&I, 
and this has been recognized by external organizations, 
including Forbes,  which ranked Ball as No 1 on its 2019 
list of “America’s Best Employers for Diversity.” 
Our dedicated D&I function reports to our CEO, and 
we understand that the key to success is shared 
accountability rather than designating a single owner 
for this critical area. Our focus to date has been on 
the fundamentals — creating an internal team and 
infrastructure to set us up for future success. As part of 
this, we have also created an unconscious bias training 
curriculum, expanded our Ball Resource Groups (BRGs) 
in terms of quantity and geography, and have increased 
awareness around the importance of D&I and how each 
employee can play a role in ensuring that we have a 
culture where people can bring their whole selves to work. 
While we are proud of our progress, we know there is 
more work to do.
As we move forward, we are accelerating our efforts with 
a greater sense of urgency. In June 2020 we instituted a new global business system that will — among many other employee-related features — enable us to more 
fully understand employee demographics and identify 
how we can better recruit and retain minority populations 
around the world. We are taking a new approach to 34
BALL CORPORATIONOur D&I strategy is focused  
on three core areas:
PARTNERING. A dedicated team of diversity 
and inclusion experts has partnered closely with 
business leaders to develop and implement 
strategies that advance our D&I commitments. 
This has allowed us to address specific needs 
and gaps with targeted programs – for example, 
by instituting a new women’s talent focus project 
through which we have identified women across 
the company who are “ready and rising.” Since the launch of this program in 2018, we have 
seen nearly 20% of participants promoted 
within a year. In 2019 we also set up an annual talent acquisition and development, and are 
focusing more intently on diverse candidates for our internship programs, candidate slates 
and succession planning. We realize that our employee population needs to reflect the 
markets in which we operate and we have  
a long way to go to make that happen. 
With greater system transparency comes 
the opportunity for increased accountability, 
and each of our business segment leaders is committing to key performance indicators for 
three, five and 10 years, along with strategies on 
how to reach those goals. summit for our most senior leaders to share best 
practices and identify gaps in processes so that 
we can make an impact on D&I more quickly.
In addition to internal partnerships, we 
have extended our commitment beyond our 
company’s walls into the communities where 
we live and operate. To help inspire future 
generations of engineers who may join Ball 
one day, more than 200 employees are active 
mentors and recruiters within groups such as 
the Society of Women Engineers. We partner 
with the National Society of Black Engineers, 
and we partner with educational institutions to encourage minority students to continue their 
Diversity and Inclusion is one of the key pillars that should be 
embedded within the grain of any company. D&I benefits Ball 
with recruiting, retention and innovation, offers opportunities to gather different perspectives, promotes team cohesiveness, and provides a sense of unity and solidarity. With diversity and inclusion principles as our guide, we are strengthening our culture of trust and respect.
SHEILA GARLAND  
Sr. Operations Manager, Security & Mission Assurance  
African American Ball Resource Group Co-Lead
35
DIVERSITY & INCLUSIONpursuit of engineering and science degrees. 
One example of this has been the launch of the 
Ball Big Sisters program, which creates direct 
relationships between female engineering and 
business students and female professionals 
at Ball. This has provided an ideal network for 
sharing best practices, building a talent pipeline 
and inspiring future talent.
EDUCATING. To help our workforce look at the 
world through a different lens and to encourage 
them to have courageous conversations, we 
have introduced a “Think, Speak and Meet 
Inclusively” training module, which helps Ball 
employees learn techniques for communicating 
in a way that opens minds and allows for a 
better understanding of personal biases 
and behaviors. This is a complement to our 
Unconscious Bias training, in which more than 
1,000 Ball employees have participated over the 
past two years. In 2019, our Colorado campus 
employees participated in the Unconscious 
Bias Bus Tour, which provided a virtual reality 
experience designed to create awareness of 
bias and offered tools to guard against making 
judgments based on bias. 
Through formal training programs such as these, 
and via more informal “lunch and learns” and 
listening sessions, our employees have ongoing 
opportunities to learn about other cultures and 
perspectives. This education begins on day one, 
as D&I is also a critical part of our onboarding 
program. Additionally, we believe that education 
is best instilled through a bottom-up approach, 
so we capture the voices of employees at all 36
BALL CORPORATIONBoard diversity
More than half of our board of directors 
consists of women and ethnic minorities. The 
board regularly reviews our D&I progress and 
challenges the company to go deeper and faster. 
Leveraging the power of their extensive networks, 
its members connect our leaders and D&I team 
to D&I functions at other organizations, so that 
we can share best practices and key learnings 
with the goal of furthering our investments in the 
activities that support our culture of belonging. 
Our directors also serve as panelists and 
keynote speakers at the many internal diversity 
and inclusion events held across our organization. 
Our challenge: both sobering and invigorating 
There is no question that D&I enables us to find 
innovative solutions to global challenges, push levels through testimonials that can help teach 
others and inform our future strategies.
ENGAGING. Awareness building and education 
is ineffective without true engagement. Our 
nine Ball Resource Groups (BRGs) play a pivotal role in providing opportunities for our people to participate in programs designed to strengthen 
our culture of belonging. These groups lead and implement a number of initiatives focused on career development, company culture, community outreach and commercial activities. 
They are visible and value-added organizations 
that work with our leadership teams to address 
significant matters of interest to more than  
1,650 members. In 2019 alone, these groups 
organized more than 75 events, including our first-ever International Women’s Summit, 
during which employees were able to learn 
from each other and translate their learnings 
into professional and personal development. 
To complement our North American team, 
we recently hired D&I managers for South 
America and EMEA, who will help expand our 
BRG presence in those regions. Each BRG is 
sponsored by at least one company executive 
who is dedicated to helping the group chart its 
course and execute on its mission. Currently, 
more than 80% of our executives are sponsors 
and participate in these BRGs.
To better understand where and how to engage, 
we will conduct more frequent listening sessions 
and surveys as part of our enterprise listening 
strategy. We will use this feedback to help shape 
future focus areas and programs.the boundaries of our imagination, and tap 
into the unique perspectives that can only be 
garnered through a diverse workforce. For  
these valuable reasons, our D&I programs 
remain some of the most important and 
influential drivers for our culture of belonging.  
For Ball, D&I is a business imperative. 
As we look to the future, however, we realize we 
have a steep hill to climb. We understand that 
if we do not feel uncomfortable and impatient, 
we likely are not pushing ourselves hard enough. 
We are committed to stretching ourselves to 
deliver actionable results and will hold ourselves 
accountable to make a real impact, providing 
interim updates as our D&I program expands 
and matures.37
DIVERSITY & INCLUSIONOversight
A monthly global data monitoring system keeps tabs on 
our sustainability performance at all levels of the business, and is overseen by our Corporate Governance Committee, 
made up of our board of directors and chaired by a  
non-executive board member.
The committee’s scope is to ensure we add economic 
value to the business by fully integrating sustainability  
into our strategies and aligning ourselves with  
stakeholder expectations. 
At all times our business operations are guided by our 
Business Ethics Code of Conduct, 
 and our Global 
Environmental Policy.  
Each year our environmental data goes through a rigorous third party assurance 
 process to ensure we deliver 
accurate reporting both in this report and elsewhere. 
Risk Management 
To remain a resilient business we need to anticipate and 
mitigate sustainability-related risks. 
We identify and assess these risks so we can develop 
management plans to address them. Among the key risks we examine are those related to climate change, water 
scarcity, disruptions due to extreme weather events, 
human rights abuses and packaging waste regulations.
Stakeholder engagement 
We engage with stakeholders to better understand their 
expectations and to identify emerging opportunities and challenges in our markets. 
We also operate in collaboration with investors, 
customers, suppliers, trade associations, governmental We aim to add economic value to 
the business by fully integrating sustainability into our strategies38
BALL CORPORATIONBall Corporation has a cross-functional sustainability initiative in which 
business executives, geographic leads and plant operators drive toward a set 
of company-wide sustainability goals. We believe that Ball Corporation and its sustainability initiative has significant positive sustainability optionality driven by environmentally conscious consumers’ preference for highly recyclable aluminum containers over more harmful single-use plastic. This developing environmental theme strengthens the company’s durable competitive advantage, growth prospects and long-term margin outlook.
representatives, regulatory authorities and  
non-governmental organizations to find  
solutions to the sustainability challenges we  
face – from increasing recycling rates to 
mitigating environmental and social risks.  
We cannot work on these alone. 
One particular area of focus for stakeholder 
engagement is with our suppliers, with whom we work to bring about sustainability improvements in our value chain. A useful vehicle for doing this is the Aluminum Stewardship Initiative (see Responsible Sourcing section 
).Integrating sustainability
It is important that sustainability is given high 
priority in all parts of the business, from plant workers keeping machines efficient, to engineers designing innovative products, to making sure that we source against sustainability criteria. 
Our senior executives consistently communicate 
the importance of sustainability, and make sure this message reaches all levels, creating a sense 
of ownership among employees.One way of achieving this has been through the 
Hoover Sustainability Award, 
 which recognizes 
Ball plants that have achieved the most significant sustainability improvements. 
The award is given to one plant in each of 
our four Global Beverage Packaging regions, plus one plant in our Aerosol Packaging 
division. The 2019 winners for beverage 
packaging are Kapolei (Hawaii), Gelsenkirchen (Germany), Yangon (Myanmar) and Buenos Aires (Argentina). The 2019 winner for aerosol packaging is San Luis Potosí (Mexico).
THOMAS KAMEI  
Executive Director, Counterpoint Global  
Morgan Stanley Investment Management
39
SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENTCONTACTS
INVESTOR RELATIONS
+1 (303) 460 - 3537 
ascott@ball.comwww.ball.com/investors
SUSTAINABILITY 
+1 (303) 460 - 4429 sustainability@ball.comwww.ball.com/sustainability
CORPORATE COMMUNICATIONS 
+1 (303) 460 - 2476 corpinfo@ball.com  
www.ball.com/media-room
FOLLOW US ONLINE 
 facebook.com/BallCorpHQ  
 twitter.com/BallCorpHQ  
 linkedin.com/company/ball  
 youtube.com/user/BallCorp  
 instagram.com/ballcorporation
You can download this report along with additional 
sustainability information at www.ball.com/sustainability40
BALL CORPORATIONFORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This release contains “forward-looking” statements concerning future events and financial performance. Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” 
“believes,” “targets,” “likely,” “positions” and similar expressions typically identify forward-looking statements, which are generally any statements other than 
statements of historical fact. Such statements are based on current expectations or views of the future and are subject to risks and uncertainties, which 
could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied. You should therefore not place undue reliance upon any forward-
looking statements and any such statements should be read in conjunction with, and, qualified in their entirety by, the cautionary statements referenced 
below. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future 
events or otherwise. Key factors, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual outcomes and results to be different are summarized in filings with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission, including Exhibit 99 in our Form 10-K, which are available on our website and at www.sec.gov . Additional factors 
that might affect: a)  our packaging segments include product capacity, supply, and demand constraints and fluctuations, including due to virus and 
disease outbreaks and responses thereto; availability/cost of raw materials and logistics; competitive packaging, pricing and substitution; changes in 
climate and weather; footprint adjustments and other manufacturing changes, including the startup of new facilities and lines; failure to achieve synergies, 
productivity improvements or cost reductions; mandatory deposit or other restrictive packaging laws; customer and supplier consolidation; power and 
supply chain interruptions,; potential delays and tariffs related to the U.K’s departure from the EU; changes in major customer or supplier contracts or 
a loss of a major customer or supplier; political instability and sanctions; currency controls; changes in foreign exchange or tax rates; and tariffs, trade 
actions, or other governmental actions, including business restrictions and shelter-in-place orders in any country or jurisdiction affecting goods produced 
by us or in our supply chain, including imported raw materials, such as those related to COVID-19 and those pursuant to Section 232 of the U.S. Trade 
Expansion Act of 1962 or Section 301 of Trade Act of 1974; b)  our aerospace segment include funding, authorization, availability and returns of government 
and commercial contracts; and delays, extensions and technical uncertainties affecting segment contracts; c) the company as a whole include those 
listed plus: the extent to which sustainability-related opportunities arise and can be capitalized upon; changes in senior management, succession, and the 
ability to attract and retain skilled labor; regulatory action or issues including tax, environmental, health and workplace safety, including U.S. FDA and other 
actions or public concerns affecting products filled in our containers, or chemicals or substances used in raw materials or in the manufacturing process; 
technological developments and innovations; the ability to manage cyber threats and the success of information technology initiatives; litigation; strikes; 
disease; pandemic; labor cost changes; rates of return on assets of the company’s defined benefit retirement plans; pension changes; uncertainties 
surrounding geopolitical events and governmental policies both in the U.S. and in other countries, including policies, orders and actions related to 
COVID-19, the U.S. government elections, stimulus package(s), budget, sequestration and debt limit; reduced cash flow; interest rates affecting our debt; 
and successful or unsuccessful joint ventures, acquisitions and divestitures, and their effects on our operating results and business generally.© Ball Corporation 2020. All rights reserved. Ball and the Ball 
logo and names of Ball products are trademarks or registered 
trademarks of Ball Corporation.9200 W. 108th Circle  
Westminster, CO 80021 
USA+1.303.469.3131
www.ball.com/sustainability