BALL  CORPORATION
2016 Sustainability ReportWe welcome your comments and questions on our sustainability efforts.  
Please direct them to sustainability@ball.com.
More details on our sustainability performance, best practices and updates  
on our progress are available at www.ball.com/sustainability.
Throughout the online version of this report,  
click this symbol  for additional web content. www.ball.com/sustainabilityCONTACTCONTENTSTABLE OF
ASSESSMENTSEXTERNALREPORTINGABOUT OUR
This is Ball Corporation’s fifth biennial sustainability report, covering calendar years 2014 and 
2015. It complements our financial reporting and covers the sustainability topics identified by  Ball and our stakeholders as most material to our company. Customers, investors, employees  and suppliers are the primary audience for our reporting.
Note that all data in this report is for the calendar years 2014 and 2015, and we report information 
on our business prior to the acquisition of Rexam PLC that closed on June 30, 2016, and the required divestitures related to the acquisition. Some of the information we provide in this report, such as the Ball Overview on Pages 2-3, is related to decisions and events that have occurred in 2016, so that readers have more up-to-date information about Ball post-close of the acquisition.
Unless otherwise stated, we are reporting global information from manufacturing facilities, 
major administrative offices, and research and development facilities where Ball Corporation has operational control. An external assurance statement by PricewaterhouseCoopers and further details on reporting principles, boundaries and data normalization are available on our website.
Our reporting was developed in accordance with the Core level of the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines. A detailed GRI Content Index appears online.
Ball’s sustainability management and performance have again 
been recognized by external experts.
CEO Perspective  01
Ball Overview  02
Sustainability Management  04
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP  08
OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE  20
TALENT MANAGEMENT  28
COMMUNITY AMBASSADORS  31CEO PERSPECTIVE
At Ball Corporation, we believe in our people, our culture 
and our ability to deliver value to all of our stakeholders. Like uncompromising integrity and customer focus,  being sustainable is part of our Drive for 10 vision,  which leverages Ball’s strengths to achieve continued  long-term success.
The environment in which we operate remains extremely 
competitive and is constantly changing. Therefore, we continue to focus on controlling the things in our control and positioning our company for enduring success. The acquisition of Rexam PLC will be truly transformational  for our company and our industry. We will be able to apply key learnings from both companies and leverage our scale to be more efficient, more cost effective and to set new standards in sustainable growth. We also will have greater opportunities to ensure the beverage can is the most sustainable package in the beverage supply chain.Additionally, as the largest canmaker in the world, we will have a unique opportunity to address the fundamental challenges in our business and in our value chain. Our sustainability activities align well with the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals, ratified last September.  As you’ll see throughout this report, we continue to set a high bar for ourselves, our suppliers and our partners.  A few examples of this commitment and highlights from  the reporting period include:
•
  Reduced our T otal Recordable Incident Rate by  
27 percent.
•  Collaborated with our customers to develop and  launch game-changing, lighter-weight metal  beverage and aerosol packaging innovations.
•
  Reduced the carbon footprint of our most common beverage can formats b y 10 percent since 2010,  putting us on pace to meet our global Cut/4 CArboN target of 25 percent by 2020.
•
  Donated more than $4 million to charitable  organizations in Ball communities through  The Ball Foundation, employ ee donations and  
the corporate match.
•
  Achieved a 77 percent participation rate and  78 percent engagement le vel in our 2014  
employee engagement survey, coming in well  above many benchmarks while striving to reach  global high-performing status in some areas.
This is an exciting time at Ball. With Drive for 10 and  its levers, including sustainability, as our guide, we look forward to a brighter, stronger future for our organization.
John A. Hayes 
Chairman, President & Chief Executive OfficerCEO PERSPECTIVE
01WE KNOW  WHO WE ARE.
Proud of our rich history, we recognize the whole of our company is  
greater than the sum of its parts. Most importantly, we believe in our 
people, our culture and our ability to deliver value to all our stakeholders. 
Though we encourage and embrace our diversity of thought, business, 
location and language, we are “One Ball, ” valuing:
• Uncompromising Integrity
• Being Close to Our Customers
• Focusing on Attention to Detail
• Behaving Like Owners
• Being Innovative
WE KNOW  WHERE WE ARE GOING.
We want to be the best at everything we do, and will continually  
strive for perfection at Ball as we pursue our strategy of: 
MAXIMIZING  value in our existing businesses
EXPANDING  into new products and capabilities
ALIGNING  ourselves with the right customers and markets
BROADENING  our geographic reach
LEVERAGING  our know-how and technological expertise  
to provide a competitive advantage
WE KNOW  WHAT IS IMPORTANT.
In order to reach our goals, we must excel in these areas: 
CUSTOMER FOCUS We must be viewed as a strategic partner  
with each of our key customers.
OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE We must be the most competitive  
in terms of cost, quality and service in all the markets in which we 
compete by continually driving for efficiencies in all our processes. 
INNOVATION AND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT  We must identify  
and drive profitable growth.
PEOPLE AND CULTURE FOCUS We must have the best people, 
providing them with the right support, rewards and growth 
opportunities to thrive.
SUSTAINABILITY We must balance our economic, environmental  
and social impacts for greater long-term success.TENDRIVE FORNORTH AMERICA
EUROPE
AFRICA, MIDDLE EAST & ASIA (AMEA)SOUTH AMERICABALL CORPORATION
Since its founding in 1880, Ball Corporation has evolved and 
expanded from its humble beginnings as a manufacturer of wood-jacketed tin cans into the global manufacturing leader it is today. From the development of innovative metal packaging to the beverage, food, and consumer goods markets to delivering proven instruments, sensors and spacecraft to the aerospace and defense industries, Ball’s unmatched expertise and global reach ensure that no matter our customers’ mission, we are there to help them achieve it.
Ball’s beverage packaging  delivers more than just a cold 
drink. We take pride in creating metal beverage cans  
and bottles that are smart, practical, sustainable and  eye-catching. From our aluminum beverage cans ranging in excess of 20 different sizes to the versatile, reclosable Alumi-T ek
® bottle to the Dynamark® variable printing 
technology that allows us to print up to 24 design variations per production run, we work closely with our customers to deliver a unique packaging experience to consumers.
Since the aerosol can  revolutionized consumer products in 
the 1940s, Ball has refined and improved the technology to 
suit today’s needs. We recently developed a new metal alloy that reduces the weight of our aluminum aerosol cans by as much as 15 percent. We also breathed new air into aerosol technology with the introduction of our next generation  of tinplate aerosol packaging, which is helping us meet  and exceed our customers’ growing expectations (Page 19).
Metal food packaging  has set the standard for freshness 
and preservation for well over a century, and we continue to 
push boundaries and innovate in this sector. What excites us most is the sustainability advantages that metal packaging provides. It is one of the most environmentally friendly and economical forms of packaging.
Since the dawn of the space age, Ball Aerospace  has 
been involved with some of our nation’s most critical 
missions—unlocking the mysteries of the universe, shaping new solutions in national security, and advancing bold innovations in Earth science. Whether capturing the first high-resolution views of Pluto or developing life-saving and game-changing defense solutions onboard multiple land, air, sea and space platforms—Ball brings innovation, integrity, agility and performance to help our customers succeed.
With the help of our 18,700 talented employees around  
the world, Ball will continue to revolutionize our industries, serve our customers, and put the right people, processes  and partners in place to help us achieve our vision and  create long-term value for all of our stakeholders.BUSINESSES
EMPLOYEESHeadquarters
Aerospace
Regional OfficeMetal Beverage 
Packaging
Metal Beverage 
Ends
Extruded Aluminum 
Packaging
T echnology  
& Innovation CenterMetal Food & Household  
Products Packaging
North America 
9,150
South America 
2,560
Europe 
5,270
AMEA 
1,720
T otal 18,70003BALL OVERVIEWSUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT
At Ball Corporation, we believe in our people, our culture 
and our ability to deliver value to our stakeholders. Like uncompromising integrity and customer focus, being sustainable is part of our Drive for 10 vision, which leverages Ball’s strengths to achieve continued long-term success. 
Our triple bottom-line approach to sustainability has evolved 
since it was formalized in 2006 and, today, is supported by several global policies, position statements, and tools for performance monitoring, continuous improvement and best-practice sharing. We also have embedded sustainability into our strategic planning and build sustainability goals from the bottom up. Individual plants are ultimately accountable for their sustainability performance, which is tied to each plant manager’s performance appraisal. We strive to put the right people, processes and partners in place to help us create long-term shared value and achieve our sustainability vision.
COMBINING THE BEST OF BOTH WORLDS
Over the past decade, Ball and Rexam developed proven sustainability frameworks. Once we started the integration process, we evaluated strengths and weaknesses of each organization’s approach and began combining the most effective management tools to serve as the foundation  for our continued success.
As a first step, we analyzed Ball’s and Rexam’s sustainability 
materiality surveys in which each company identified its most relevant sustainability issues. Inspired by our customers and other stakeholders, we combined our sustainability priorities into a set of four and defined  how actions in each priority will contribute to bottom-line growth and our Drive for 10 strategic vision.
  
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
In September 2015, governments around the world officially adopted the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)—global goals to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure prosperity for all by 2030.
  
Ball is committed to helping make the SDGs a reality. All of our four sustainability priorities and associated goals are aligned with and contribute to 10 of the 17 SDGs  (Page 6). Our main contribution will derive from our operations and our value chain. Ball will focus on  shared value creation—through jobs, investments and economic growth, environmental protection, research  and development, and the high sustainability standards  to which we hold ourselves and our suppliers accountable.
When working toward the global goals, our employees and 
their community engagement are valuable resources. This is why Ball joined IMPACT 2030, the only business-led effort designed to harness the power of corporate volunteers to address the SDGs (Page 34), in 2015. IMPACT 2030 believes that a commitment to corporate volunteering—when used in concert with the UN, peer companies, government, academia and civil society—is a powerful tool to accelerate the use of sustainable development principles and inspire the private sector to take positive action. 
  04BALL CORPORATIONBALL ’S SUSTAINABILITY VISION
At the end of the day, Ball must be 
more viable and provide the most 
effective and sustainable packaging 
solutions to our customers—whether 
for global brands or our local craft beer 
customers. Our evolving organization 
can help them achieve their own 
business and sustainability targets.
““
ERIK BOUTS
Senior Vice President, Ball Corporation;  
Chief Operating Officer, Global Beverage Packaging 
Full statement available online   We evaluate the financial  
implications of our actions and  
strive to put them into perspective  
by understanding our impacts on  
the environment and society. 
We empower our talented employees  
to make the right decisions and support  
them with resources that enable them  
to grow their talent and our success.
We aim to achieve earnings per share  
and free cash flow growth over time  
while also delivering value to society.
We create win-win situations for  
Ball, our employees, customers, 
shareholders, suppliers and  
communities where we operate.2020 GOALS
Ball achieved two-thirds of the 22 sustainability goals we 
committed to for 2014-2015. For five of the goals, we achieved reasonable progress, but did not reach the goal. For two of our goals, our performance showed negative trends. 
  Ball developed 10 new ambitious goals to  
achieve by 2020. The goals are backed by detailed, shorter-term goals in each business, region and at the plant-level.
ONGOING STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE
Engaging our stakeholders is essential to how we do business. By listening to their ideas and needs, we better understand their expectations and can identify emerging opportunities and challenges in our markets. In turn, stakeholders can deepen their understanding of Ball and how we can work together to create shared value.
We regularly engage various stakeholders such as  
customers, employees, investors, suppliers, trade associations, governmental representatives, regulatory authorities and nongovernmental organizations. Dialogue with stakeholders along our value chain—from material suppliers to recycling organizations—is particularly important to Ball. Because many of the sustainability challenges we encounter, such as water scarcity and packaging recycling, are too complex for one organization to tackle alone, we participate in several multi-stakeholder partnerships that allow us and others to bundle resources and expertise to develop effective solutions (Page 10).
A detailed list of our stakeholder groups and their key 
interests, as well as our latest formal sustainability materiality matrix, are available online.
   
Cut the carbon footprint of our beverage cans by 25% (considering goals on multiple 
product stewardship issues, including weight optimization, energy in can making and metal production, recycling rates) (baseline 2010)
Achieve industry recycling rate targets for metal packaging products in developed 
markets, and work toward measurement and improvement of metal packaging recycling in emerging markets
Deliver three major aerospace programs that will provide significant benefits in areas 
such as climate change, weather, drought, pollution and biodiversity measurementsBALL ’S 2020 SUSTAINABILITY GOALS
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE
TALENT MANAGEMENT
COMMUNITY AMBASSADORSReduce three-year rolling average T otal Recordable Incident Rate by 25 percent (2015) 
By year-end 2016, determine baseline for electricity, natural gas, water, waste and VOCs 
for our company post-close of the Rexam acquisition and commit to bottom-up normalized targets for our global beverage can business by mid-2017 (2015)
Determine a science-based greenhouse gas emission reduction target by mid-2018 (2015)
Enhance overall employee engagement and talent retention by assessing and 
continuously improving the processes that support the way we acquire, onboard, develop and move talent at Ball
Roll out diversity and inclusion tools globally, expand our Ball Resource Groups 
company-wide, and meet the criteria required to secure a place on the Diversity, Inc. T op 50 Companies for Diversity
Global roll out of Community Ambassadors program
Establish 2030 global volunteer goal that is aligned  
with the UN Sustainable Development Goals06BALL CORPORATIONT o better understand ongoing, developing and  
new material issues and to align our resources, reporting and stakeholder engagement, we  intend to refresh our materiality assessment  for our evolving company in 2017.
OVERSIGHT
Accountability for our sustainability performance is monitored at various levels of the organization. It is overseen by the Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee, a committee of Ball Corporation’s board of directors chaired by a  non-executive board director of Ball. 
Since 2009, Ball’s Sustainability Steering 
Committee (SSC) ensures that sustainability is  fully aligned with and integrated into our strategies, as well as balanced with stakeholder expectations. The SSC, composed of corporate and operations senior executives responsible for implementing our sustainability strategy, meets at least twice a year.We understand that we must combine our 
actions with those of our partners to create 
transformational change. It is this type of 
change that is being addressed by the  
17 UN Sustainable Development Goals.
““
KATHLEEN PITRE
Vice President, Communications  
& Corporate Relations;  Executive Director, The Ball Foundation AND THE  
HOOVER SUSTAINABILITY 
AWARD GOES TO
VIETNAM
Engaging our workforce is key to achieving  
exceptional results. In 2010, Ball established the  Hoover Sustainability Award in honor of the company’s  former chairman, president and CEO, who was a key driver in developing Ball’s formal sustainability program. Each plant’s sustainability performance is evaluated annually across nine categories, including our Big 6 operational priorities, local support of packaging collection and recycling, charitable contributions and volunteerism, and its ‘One Ball’ team player spirit. In each division, the plant with the greatest year-over-year improvement receives the award.
In 2015, our joint venture plant in Ho Chi Minh, Vietnam, 
won the award in Beverage Packaging Asia Pacific. Since the plant joined the Ball family in 2012, employees have put a strong emphasis on operating the facility in a highly sustainable way. They embraced Ball’s sustainability approach, quickly started monitoring their sustainability metrics and implemented various best practices from other Ball plants to lessen their environmental impact and strengthen their positive social impacts.
While the plant exhibited strong results in all nine 
award categories, their year-over-year operational eco-efficiency gains were outstanding. In particular, the plant achieved double-digit improvements on natural gas and water efficiency, as well as decreased total waste generation. At the same time, the total recordable incident rate (TRIR) was reduced by 54 percent, leading to a better performance than the corporate average TRIR.Our regional businesses utilize our global data monitoring system to assess their monthly sustainability performance against their own  goals at business and plant level. This transparency informs decision-making, helps prioritize projects and makes it relevant for employees at all levels  of the organization. 
 
RISK MANAGEMENT
We systematically identify and assess risks  in all of our businesses so we can develop management plans that encompass major  risks, including supply chain, commodity and currency volatility, human capital, financial risk  and legislative action. Sustainability issues addressed within this framework include risks related to natural resources, climate change,  human rights and regulations related to  packaging and packaging waste.Full statement available online    PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
Ball manufactures billions of metal packaging products and 
a handful of highly specialized aerospace systems each year. While the products are very different, we aim to be the best stewards throughout their life cycle. From research and development through product design, manufacturing and end-of-life, we ensure that our products create value for our stakeholders while minimizing environmental and social impacts. Sustainable products and innovations are what our customers seek from their supply chain. And our customers’ 
mission is critical to us.
Partnerships
We work individually and collaboratively with our value 
chain partners to decouple economic growth from environmental and social impacts of our products along their life cycles. These partnerships range from individual organizations, such as a customer, to a consortium of private and public partners, and address a single, regional sustainability issue or broader sustainable development themes. For example, we engage with The Recycling Partnership to improve packaging recycling in the U.S.  (Page 14) and we support the Aluminum Stewardship Initiative, a multi-stakeholder partnership that shares expertise and financial resources to develop a global  system for responsibly sourced aluminum (Page 11).
Working with some of our 10,000-plus suppliers is an 
important aspect of product stewardship. The long- lasting partnerships we have developed as part of our strategic sourcing process enable us to discuss our sustainability-related expectations with suppliers,  and to collaborate successfully on new manufacturing technologies, product innovations, recycling programs  and transparency. For example, we report details of our  due diligence determining the origins of the tin used by  our steel suppliers, one of the Dodd Frank Act-listed  conflict minerals. A detailed description of Ball’s overall 
responsible sourcing framework is available online. 
 AEROSPACE
Since 1956, Ball’s history of innovation has continued to  
make a difference in our world and in our understanding  of the universe. Our first-class instruments, spacecraft,  data exploitation solutions and technologies for civil,  commercial and national security applications go beyond expectations to provide customers with the best possible  data and intelligence.
Ball supports environmental monitoring and forecasting 
programs, including weather, climate change, precipitation, drought, pollution, vegetation and biodiversity measurements. The data captured through Ball-built instruments and satellites enables an enhanced understanding of the Earth’s ecosystem and the ozone layer, supports weather forecasting, storm tracking and rescue operations, and supports effective management of natural resources, including helping experts make routine drought assessments and fire prevention plans. 
 By enhancing the unique sustainability credentials of our products along their life cycle,  
we position them as the most sustainable choice and help our customers grow their business.
08BALL CORPORATIONProduct stewardship for Ball Aerospace is not just about 
exciting missions that help us see farther, stay safer and preserve our planet. It is also about leveraging our unique expertise to pioneer solutions that no one else has imagined before. For example, we are leading NASA’s Green Propellant Infusion Mission (GPIM), which is developing a green alternative to conventional chemical propulsion systems for next-generation launch vehicles and spacecraft. It will be the first time the U.S. will use a spacecraft to demonstrate a new high-performance, non-toxic propulsion fuel on orbit.
 
Ball seeks to improve overall propellant efficiency while reducing the handling concerns associated with hydrazine, a highly toxic fuel. The space technology infusion mission also strives to optimize performance in new hardware, system and power solutions while ensuring the best value and the safest space missions possible. Because the new green fuel provides improved performance and volumetric efficiency compared to hydrazine, propellant tanks of the same volume can store more of it, resulting in a 50 percent increase in spacecraft maneuvering capability for a given volume. It also has a lower freezing point than hydrazine, requiring less spacecraft power to maintain the propellant temperature. These characteristics make it ideal for a wide range of emerging small, deep-space satellite missions.
As GPIM’s prime contractor, Ball has the role of Principle 
Investigator and is charged with all systems engineering, flight thruster performance verification, ground and flight data review, the small compact satellite, assembly, integration and test, and launch and flight support. Once on-orbit, our team will characterize the green fuel’s performance using Ball-developed software.
The capabilities of the non-toxic propellant will be tested 
during a 13-month space flight experiment, scheduled to launch in 2017.FUELING NEXT-GENERATION
SPACECRAFTBall pioneered the development of the commercial  
remote sensing market, producing imaging systems and spacecraft to help spawn a new market-driven demand  for imagery. For example, Ball helped create what is today DigitalGlobe, and built four of their satellites, offering the best commercially available high-resolution imagery data-gathering capability. This imagery is used for civil government mapping, land-use planning, disaster relief, exploration, defense and intelligence, visualization and simulation environments, and navigation technology such  as Google Maps. The WorldView-3 satellite launched in August 2014 and is the world’s first multi-spectral, high-resolution commercial earth-imaging satellite. Locked in orbit 400 miles above Earth, it takes unique images of  our planet, some of which were released in 2015.
 
METAL PACKAGING
Ball is a global leader in metal packaging for beverage, food and aerosol products. We look at metal packaging with passion and purpose. The unique sustainability profile of metal packaging is one of its many advantages when compared with other packaging materials.
Unlike plastic and paper, for example, metals never lose 
their intrinsic properties and are completely and infinitely recyclable. They can circulate endlessly, or as the now popular circular economy concept puts it: with metals,  we can keep the molecules in play.
Life Cycle Thinking
While the environmental and social impacts of our operations are relevant, those of our supply chain are 
significantly larger.
 For example, manufacturing makes up 
approximately one-fourth of an aluminum beverage can’s 
overall energy consumption throughout its life. Most energy consumption and associated greenhouse gas emissions occur during metal production, which our suppliers strive to make more efficient. The energy needed to produce a single  metric ton of aluminum, for instance, declined 26 percent  in the U.S. and Canada between 1995 and 2010.
Life cycle thinking also means that packaging must 
always be considered in conjunction with the product it protects. Though packaging is not the only answer to the fundamental problem of food loss and waste, it is one part of a multifaceted solution. Metal packaging, in particular, prevents physical damage, protects the contents from the effects of oxygen and contaminants and maintains the nutritional value (Page 18).
Overall, packaging protects far more resources than  
it uses. The Industry Council for Packaging and the Environment (INCPEN) estimates that of all the energy  used for one person’s weekly food consumption, only  6.5 percent is attributable to primary packaging and  51 percent to food supply.  
Dedicated T o Innovation
In every step—from concept, design, manufacturing and filling to delivery of the final product to the consumer—innovation helps us identify and drive profitable growth. We work closely with our customers to understand their businesses and consumer demand, as well as the challenges and trends they encounter so we can develop industry-leading packaging solutions and graphics to help them grow their businesses.
Often invisible to the outside world, many of Ball’s 
successful product and process innovations—such as  weight optimization of our cans or increasing manufacturing speeds—provide significant environmental and economic benefits to the company, our customers and consumers.  We evaluate innovations through a variety of lenses, including consumer benefits, carbon footprints, costs and the impact of new products on the recycling process.Our intent is to make the lightest metal containers  possible while meeting the performance requirements of our customers. Even small weight optimizations save significant amounts of metal when multiplied by the billions of containers that Ball produces each year (Page 17).
Food Contact Materials
Nearly all aluminum and steel beverage and food cans made today use epoxy-based resin coatings as a barrier between the metal and the products in the can, extending the shelf life of the canned product.
The epoxy resin that gives these coatings their durability 
may include trace amounts of bisphenol A (BPA). Regulatory agencies from around the world have conducted extensive research on epoxy-based can coatings containing BPA and have consistently found them to be safe. Nevertheless, Ball recognizes the interest in non-epoxy-based coatings and is committed to responding to customer needs. We will continue to work proactively with our suppliers and customers to evaluate next-generation coatings.
Why Every Can Counts
Aluminum and iron represent the third and fourth most abundant elements on Earth. Transforming bauxite and  iron ore into aluminum and steel is an energy-intensive process. However, because it does not require mining, refining and especially smelting processes, recycling  reduces the energy needed for primary metal production  by 74 percent for steel and up to 95 percent for aluminum, and reduces GHG emissions accordingly. No matter the application for which recycled metal is used, recycling a  metal product reduces the need for an equal amount of more energy-intensive virgin metal, also saving resources and landfill space.10BALL CORPORATIONALUMINIUM  
STEWARDSHIP INITIATIVE 
Ball converted more than 1 million metric tons of 
aluminum in 2015, primarily in beverage, aerosol and food can manufacturing. While aluminum offers many outstanding sustainability advantages, it also causes  some negative environmental and social impacts. T o 
encourage and recognize responsible production, sourcing and stewardship of aluminum, Ball is an active member of the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI).
  
Based on industry-specific sustainability challenges, opportunities and needs, ASI is working with a broad range of stakeholders to develop a global independent third-party certification program for the aluminum  value chain, which is expected to launch in late 2017.  The ASI Performance Standard, launched in December 2014, addresses critical environmental, social and governance impacts, including material stewardship, energy and greenhouse gas emissions, biodiversity  and labor rights. With our partners, we established  ASI’s multi-stakeholder governance and continue to develop a credible assurance framework, including  a chain-of-custody standard.
ASI members include organizations from different 
sectors, including production and transformation, industrial users and civil society. For example,  some of our suppliers and customers, as well  as the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF)  and the International Union for Conservation  of Nature (IUCN), were ASI members in  early 2016.
DISTRIBUTION  
&RETAIL
Logistics  
WarehousingEND-OF-LIFE
Sorting Recycling LandfillCONSUMER   
USE
Transport CoolingBALL
Packaging ManufacturingFILLINGS
Filling of Beverage,  Food & Aerosol Cans
RAW MATERIAL
Mining, Refining Smelting, Casting  Rolling of Metals
ESG CRITERIA
Energy  
& Climate
By-Products 
& Waste
Land Use 
& Biodiversity
Human Rights
Labor Rights
Business  
IntegrityWater
Safety
TransparencyWhether or not a packaging material will be recycled into 
a new product (rather than collected and then landfilled or incinerated) depends on various factors such as the use of composite materials, how the package behaves in a material recovery facility and the existence of a viable end-market. According to research by the Ellen MacArthur Foundation, for example, only 14 percent of plastic packaging globally is collected for recycling. Due to additional value losses in sorting and reprocessing, 8 percent is recycled into lower-value applications and only 2 percent of plastic packaging  is actually recycled to its equivalent value.
Metal cans, however, are easily separated from other 
materials, either through magnets or through “eddy  current” technology that efficiently captures aluminum.  In addition, empty cans have the highest economic value of all packaging materials and demand for secondary metal far exceeds the supply. Overall, cans represent a perfect example of truly recyclable packaging and a product that  fits a circular economy model very well.
That is why metal cans are the most recycled containers 
in the world. In several countries, such as Brazil, China, Germany and Switzerland, aluminum beverage can  and steel packaging recycling rates are at or above  90 percent. However, collection programs in some  other countries are less effective and that is where  we focus our support.
All stakeholders involved in packaging collection and 
recycling, including material and packaging suppliers, consumer brands, local governments, waste haulers and recyclers, have a specific interest and, therefore, a role  in helping improve recycling rates. That is why we utilize  multi-stakeholder partnerships to enhance packaging collection and recycling:
Cans are unbreakable and keep air 
and light out, assuring fresh, safe and delicious foods and beverages
With the longest shelf life 
of any package, cans help minimize food waste
The high scrap value of metal cans subsidizes the recovery of other materialsNearly 75% of all aluminum and more than 80% of all steel ever produced  
is still in use todayRecycling metals saves up to 95% of  
the energy required for virgin material
In just 60 days, cans can be recycled and returned to a store shelf as a new canBall used 8% less energy  
in 2015 to produce a can  
compared to 2010
One kilogram of aluminum makes 75 12-ounce beverage cans—one kilogram  
of glass makes four 12-ounce bottlesOur customers are seeking sustainable innovations, lighter containers with a lower carbon footprint
A 12-ounce beverage can today weighs about 40% less than it did in the 1970sWith their high cubic efficiency and light weight, cans are cost-efficient to transportA ton of aluminum produced in the U.S. causes 19% less GHG emissions compared to 15 years ago
BALL
FILLINGS
DISTRIBUTION  
&RETAILCONSUMER USE
END-OF-LIFERAW MATERIALVALUE CHAIN MAP  PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
13Ball has been an active supporter of The Recycling 
Partnership (TRP) , formerly the Curbside Value  
Partnership, since its founding in 2003. TRP’s mission  is to educate, inspire and empower stakeholders to strategically strengthen recycling in the U.S. TRP’s broad spectrum of allied partners and grantees focus on driving quantity and quality in the recycled materials stream.  2015 was the first full year TRP was active and progress  has been bold: TRP reached 1.2 million households in  71 communities, delivered 165,000 carts and captures 25,000 additional tons of recyclable materials per year.  This equates to avoiding 56,800 metric tons of GHG emissions annually, while adding jobs in the respective regions and building a pipeline of recovered materials  for various industries.
 Every Can Counts (ECC)  encourages consumers to recycle 
cans when away from home—whether at work, college or other “on-the-go” locations like festivals, shopping centers  and tourist attractions. T o drive behavior change, ECC provides eye-catching recycling bins accompanied by creative posters and other promotional tools. The launch  of “Cada Lata Cuenta” in Spain in July 2015 brings the number of ECC programs operating in Europe to 10. In the U.K., 2,300 organizations with more than 5,500 sites signed up for ECC by the end of 2015, creating more than 13,300 collection points. In France, 1,450 participating sites nationwide, active programs in 137 cities and promotional activities at 500 events contributed to Chaque Canette Compte’s success in reaching 7 million people and collecting 30 million cans that were consumed away from home. 
 MetalMatters  is the largest industry-funded recycling campaign 
in the U.K., and helps local authorities educate residents about the value and benefits of metal packaging recycling,  motivating them to get involved and recycle more at home. While 97 percent of municipalities provide curbside metal collection, only about 40 percent of the available metal was captured. Ball and its partners initiated a project to better understand why participation lagged. The findings were surprising—people wanted reassurance that their recycling efforts really made a difference. T o alleviate those engagement barriers, Ball and its partners crafted an innovative communication campaign. Between 2012 and 2015, MetalMatters campaigns have run in 55 local authorities, directly targeting more than 3.5 million households. Communities engaged in the program noted an average 18 percent increase in metal packaging recycling after one year. With reduced waste disposal costs and the additional metal packaging collected, each campaign delivers an excellent return on investment by paying for itself within a matter of months and making it a desirable opportunity for cash-strapped local authorities. 
 
Ball established two foundations focused on environmental education and both celebrated their jubilees in 2015. The  RECAL Foundation  in Poland celebrated its 20th and the recan 
fund  in Serbia its 10th anniversary.  At festive conferences 
attended by Ball’s customers, suppliers, government representatives and other stakeholders, attendees looked back at past successes and plans for the future to further increase recycling rates of metal packaging in these countries. Both organizations expanded their outreach in 2015. RECAL held more than 1,000 recycling workshops for children and youth, among various other programs, with 38,000 participants.
   
The recan fund also continued its consumer-oriented campaigns, 14BALL CORPORATIONIn 2015, Ball operated a beverage can plant in  
Wrexham, U.K., and the city became the 50th local authority to partner with MetalMatters. A creative communication campaign informs citizens about  what and how to recycle, and what happens to metal  packaging during and after the recycling process.
Launched in early 2015, the campaign reaches  
62,000 households through two direct household  leaflet distributions, online advertising, social media posts, posters in public buildings and information roadshows at local grocery stores.
During the first six months, MetalMatters was  
successful in Wrexham. While actual results  will be publicized when the campaign has run  for a full year, we have already seen a significant  increase in aluminum beverage can collection rates.
T o celebrate the launch of the 50th MetalMatters 
campaign, Ball invited Wrexham councilors and  students from a local primary school to its plant to experience the aluminum can manufacturing process first-hand. The Wrexham plant produces around  7 million cans per week, and each one can be recycled  and back on the shelf as a new can in eight weeks.
In early 2016, Wrexham also implemented a new  
on-street can recycling program at key public and  leisure locations. Provided by Every Can Counts  (Page 14), the bright green can-shaped bins were  designed to make it easier for residents and  visitors to recycle on-the-go, aiming to reduce  cross-contamination and costs to the municipality.METAL MATTER
IN WREXHAMPARTNERS MAKEWhat if you could get the portability, recyclability 
and freshness of a can, but you didn’t have to give up the reclosability benefits of a bottle? Ball manufactures the lightest 16-ounce aluminum beverage bottles on the market and we successfully converted several customers to Alumi-T ek
® from 
other available bottle technologies.
When compared to these alternatives, our bottles  
use approximately 50 percent less aluminum, resulting in a significantly reduced environmental footprint. Building on the knowledge we gained in over a decade of aluminum bottle manufacturing,  we began manufacturing The Coca-Cola Company’s contour-shaped aluminum beverage bottle in the U.S. in 2015. A result of close customer collaboration, and the dedication of our innovation and operations teams, this new bottle is a standout on premise and in retail locations.
The shaped bottle weighs approximately 15 percent 
less than the competitive product, which was on the market in 2015, and has an estimated 11 percent lower carbon footprint. With that, it provides a valuable contribution to Coca-Cola’s ambitious  goal of reducing the carbon footprint of “the drink  in your hand” by 25 percent by 2020.ALUMINUM BOTTLE
REVOLUTIONincluding the Recycling Theatre, Can-by-Can and its support 
of the Belgrade Beer Festival. In 10 years, recan collected  3.5 million cans, reached 2.5 million people and educated 20,000 children and youths about the environmental benefits of can recycling. 
 
In partnership with Brazilian nongovernmental organization ONG Evoluir , Ball developed and launched 
an environmental education campaign called “It’s Time to Recycle” in 2015. The goal is to engage teachers and educate children about the importance of recycling. Classes were held in all four communities where Ball operates plants and 84 participating teachers brought the program’s content to their schools. Around 11,000 books about the “It’s Time to Recycle” heroes, sustainable development and recycling were distributed, and a new ultra-large board game allowed kids to learn about recycling in a creative and fun way.  
Additional examples of how Ball helps drive recycling rates  
in its major markets can be found online.
 
BEVERAGE CANS
Ball takes pride in creating beverage packaging that is  smart, practical, eye-catching and sustainable. We are convinced that only one beverage container delivers unrivaled benefits—the beverage can.
T ackling Climate Change T ogether
In addition to metal packaging’s unique sustainability credentials, such as infinite recyclability and versatility,  a multitude of factors influence the product environmental footprint of a beverage can. T o simplify complex inter-dependencies of sustainability aspects in the can’s life cycle, Ball developed and was the first can maker to publicly commit to an ambitious product carbon footprint reduction target. Cut/4 CArboN is yet another example of how we prove that our customer’s mission is critical to us (Page 18). They want to know how we contribute to the achievement  of their own ambitious carbon footprint targets.
Next to carbon dioxide, we measure other relevant 
parameters such as water and waste. Carbon, however, is a top priority to our stakeholders and where standards for accounting and reporting exist. All calculations related to Cut/4 CArboN were extensively reviewed and are based on ISO 14044 compliant LCA models, the international standard for LCA, as well as the GHG Protocol Product  Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard.
Less Weight, Smaller Footprint
Lightweighting is a major contributor to our 2020 beverage can carbon footprint reduction target. Success stories from the reporting period include:
•
  Through lightweighting, we reduced aluminum use  
in our Global Metal Bever age Packaging business by  
more than 30,000 metric tons, which equates to  saving more than 100,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions, or the emissions of 21,000 U.S. passenger vehicles per year.
•
  Ball introduced an ultra-light can in Europe. A  step change in can manufacturing, this first-ever 33-centiliter aluminum can body weighs less than  10 gr ams. Compared to its predecessor, this ultralight 
can saves approximately 5 percent metal. 
•
  In Asia, we continued to convert to a smaller diameter  can end, resulting in an end that is approximately  25 percent lighter .KIM MAROTTA
Director Sustainability, MillerCoorsOur strategic partnership 
with Ball Corporation 
truly exemplifies value 
chain collaboration in 
order to deliver against our sustainability goals.
““
Full statement available online    17PRODUCT STEWARDSHIPFOOD AND AEROSOL PACKAGING
Ball manufactures two- and three-piece steel food cans, 
general line cans, two- and three-piece steel and impact extruded aluminum aerosol cans, as well as aluminum  slugs (disks that are extruded into aerosol cans and  beverage bottles). Beyond the sustainability benefits of metal packaging described on Page 10, food and aerosol cans offer unique sustainability features.Since 2014, the collaboration 
between Henkel Beauty Care and 
Ball Corporation on ReAl fit right 
into our sustainability strategy. 
““
DR. THOMAS FÖRSTER
Corporate Vice President R&D Beauty Care,  
Henkel AG & Co. KGaA Aerosol Recycling
Aluminum and steel aerosol cans are recyclable, just like any 
other metal container. Ball worked with customers and other partners for the last decade to promote the collection of empty aerosol cans. While challenges remain with gathering accurate data on recycling rates and consumer access to recycling in some regions, we have made significant progress. For example, in the U.K., MetalMatters (Page 14) was instrumental in doubling the number of local authorities that accept aerosols in their recycling schemes, achieving a 96 percent acceptance rate in 2015 (up from only 7 percent in 2001).
Full statement available online    Love Food, Hate Waste
When agricultural products do not survive the journey from farm to table, significant resources are wasted. Worldwide, an estimated 1.3 billion metric tons of food are wasted each year. In the U.S., where Ball produces all of its food cans, food supply makes up about 10 percent of the total energy use, 50 percent of land use and 80 percent of all freshwater consumed. Forty percent of that food, worth $165 billion, is never eaten. Uneaten food represents the single largest component of municipal solid waste and accounts for  about 25 percent of U.S. methane emissions, a more  potent greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide.
Appropriate packaging, and cans in particular, help 
prevent food loss and waste along the entire supply chain, contributing to food security and safety. Thus, cans are one aspect of a holistic solution to the U.N. ’s Sustainable Development Goal No. 2 to end hunger, achieve food  security and improved nutrition.
Food And Aerosol Cans On A Diet
Steel food cans have become 33 percent lighter over the  past quarter-century, and we continue to work with suppliers and customers to take even more metal out of our containers while keeping their integrity and functionality intact. We recently reduced the weight of ends used with millions of  our two-piece food cans in North America by 15 percent, saving more than 210 metric tons of steel annually, equivalent to the amount of steel used in 250 cars.
Aerosol can manufacturing technology had not changed for 
several decades, but this changed in 2010 when Ball started working on ReAl
®, a revolutionary new aerosol technology 
that offers multiple economic and environmental advantages (Page 19).18BALL CORPORATIONBREATHING NEW AIR INTO ALUMINUM AEROSOL TECHNOLOGY
NEXT FRONTIER IN STEEL AEROSOL PACKAGINGIn 2010, Ball started working on its 
revolutionary aluminum aerosol 
technology, ReAl®. ReAl is composed of a metal alloy  
that exhibits increased strength and allows weight reduction of the container without affecting package integrity. The original ReAl, which replaced the  standard aluminum aerosol can and hit store shelves  in 2013, included 25 percent recycled material to  yield an 11 percent lighter package.
In 2015, Ball continued its aluminum aerosol 
lightweighting journey with the introduction of an even lighter iteration of ReAl in collaboration with our customer Henkel. This newest iteration is 15 percent lighter than the standard aluminum aerosol can, and—despite the increased alloy strength—Ball successfully developed a container with a deep shape to produce  
Ball’s newest two-piece aerosol can was developed 
over five years and is a testament to Ball’s commitment to innovation. G3-HD, produced at our Chestnut Hill, T ennessee, plant, is the next generation of tinplate  aerosol packaging. G3’s integrated dome design, a result of our high-speed, coil-to-can manufacturing process, features high-definition graphics that exceed customers’ growing expectations. Moving beyond traditional three-piece aerosol manufacturing, G3 is designed to control sidewall thickness to accommodate various specifications. G3 is available in multiple sizes and utilizes Ball’s a can with a distinctive shelf presence. These cans were named World Aluminum Aerosol Can by AEROBAL and won Gold at The Canmaker Magazine Cans of the Year Award 2015.
Ball estimates that the 15 percent lighter can reduces 
the product carbon footprint by 10 percent. When considering the volumes of ReAl cans supplied in  2015, this reduces greenhouse gas emissions equal  to the amount a passenger vehicle would cause when traveling around the Earth more than 8,000 times.
Our engineering and innovation teams continue to work 
on lightweighting opportunities that are compatible with Ball’s existing aerosol can lines. 
advanced technology to provide a brighter and whiter canvas for outstanding customer graphics, promoting superior, eight-color, high-definition artwork.
The first G3 commercially available cans (650 milliliter) 
are 11 percent lighter when compared to a traditional three-piece aerosol can. The associated metal savings  for 100 million cans equal greenhouse gas emission savings of approximately 1,750 metric tons—equivalent  to the emissions caused by the annual energy use of  160 U.S. homes.  
Sustainability is embedded in our manufacturing operations 
and is a lever of operational excellence. We recognize the impact our operations have on the environment and the local communities where we operate and are committed  to continuous efficiency improvements. We introduce innovative processes and technologies that improve our safety track record, reduce energy and water consumption, cut greenhouse gas emissions and  divert more waste to beneficial use. 
Employee engagement and commitment to 
sustainability are key to our operational success. T o make sustainability more tangible for our employees, we introduced the “Big 6” concept in 2008 to focus the attention of Ball employees on the six most significant sustainability metrics in our operations. 
Across the world, each Ball plant is accountable for these metrics and commits to annual goals as part of our strategic planning process. At each plant, goal progress is tracked and evaluated monthly and reported to divisional management, as well as quarterly to Ball’s Sustainability Steering Committee. T o drive accountability and continuous improvement, progress is also built into performance appraisals for plant management and operations leadership.
All of our plants have formal safety and environmental 
management systems in place. Since 1995, these systems have improved our safety and environmental performance OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE
by allowing us to monitor and manage our impacts and proactively implement corresponding compliance strategies. By the end of 2015, about 30 percent of our plants were certified according to ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001.
Mastering Change
A significant aspect of our Drive for 10 vision includes expanding into new and emerging markets. In 2015, we invested more than $350 million in growth capital projects that included building new greenfield plants in Ahmedabad, India, and Monterrey, Mexico. Ensuring we capitalize on the sustainability best practices we have implemented in facilities around the world is key to these expansion projects. Integrating sustainability into the initial facility design and employee onboarding allows us to minimize the cost impact of these new plants, as well as engage new employees on our sustainability journey—
 
 accelerating operational ex cellence.
As we continue to optimize our footprint and respond to demand shifts for our products, we continue to face It is exhilarating to see employees embrace the company’s 
culture and strive for continuous improvement. Within  
a few short months after the acquisition, production  
numbers began to increase and quality improved.
SHARON VANACKER
Manager, Plant Human Resources in Canton, Ohio
Full statement available online   
““By measuring, managing and continuously improving the safety and environmental  
performance of our operations, we increase efficiencies, reduce costs and minimize risks.
20BALL CORPORATION  UNIT  2010  2011  2012  2013  2014  2015  absolute  per EVA $
EVATM Dollars1  $ in millions  109.5   142.3  161.4  149.3  190.7  180.6  65 %  -
Energy consumption  000 MWh  3,455  3,592  3,632  3,475  3,452  3,515  2 %  -38 %
 - Direct energy2 000 MWh  1,666  1,849  1,876  1,788  1,784  1,805  8 %  -34 %
 - Indirect energy3 000 MWh  1,789  1,744  1,756  1,687  1,668  1,709  -4 %  -42 %
Greenhouse gas emissions  000 tons4 1,344  1,334  1,322  1,264  1,237  1,233  -8 %  -44 %
 - Scope 1  000 tons  371  365  377  361  358  370  0 %  -40 %
 - Scope 2  000 tons  973  970  945  904  879  863  -11 %  -46 %
Water Consumption  000 m3  6,310  6,771  7,104  6,552  6,866  6,958  10 %  -33 %
Waste Generation  000 tons  36.4  45.0  42.5  41.9  40.2  45.3  24 %  -25 %
 - Waste recycled/reused  000 tons  16.1  24.2  24.7  28.2  27.8  32.0  99 %  21 %
VOC emissions  000 tons  5.4 5.9 5.9 5.6 5.8 6.2 15 %  -30 %
T otal recordable  incidents/  2.25  1.72  1.70  1.70  1.60  1.24  -45 %  -
 Incident rate  200,000 hrs 
  workedChange vs 2010
challenges in our operations that negatively impact the 
efficiency of our production lines. Trends such as substantial increases in can sizes, shapes and label changes, as well as new line startups and curtailments, threaten to offset progress toward our sustainability goals because they decrease efficiencies.
ENERGY & GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
By using energy more efficiently, we reduce our operating costs and our carbon footprint. Every Ball plant commits to annual energy goals supported by detailed action plans.  Real-time energy information systems provide higher visibility into our operations at the equipment level  so we can better understand, manage, report on and benchmark the performance of energy-consuming processes. Eighty-nine percent of Ball plants have energy management systems in place and 14 are certified according to the ISO 50001 energy management standard.
Our Global Beverage Packaging and Tinplate businesses 
accounted for 88 percent of our total energy consumption in 2015. We increased the energy efficiency in these businesses (measured per unit of production) by  3 percent since 2012. 
Partnerships with external energy experts provide tools, resources and technical assistance to enhance our efforts and allow us to learn from other organizations. For example, Ball joined the U.S. Department of Energy’s “Better Buildings, Better Plants” program in 2010 to learn about energy management best practices and benchmark our operations with those of other manufacturing companies.1 Economic Value Added returns above 9% after tax on the average invested capital employed in our businesses    
2 natural gas, propane, diesel    3 electricity, hot water, steam    4 all tons refer to metric tons21OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCEOPENING THE CAN ON
RENEWABLE  ENERGY  
IN FINDLAY
For the first time in its 135-year history, Ball entered 
the world of renewable energy in 2015, adding another layer to our efforts to address climate change. Our highly engaged workforce in Findlay, Ohio, teamed up with a local renewable energy service provider to harness the power of the wind.
One Energy invested $18 million to install five  
1.5 megawatt wind turbines on land next to our  Findlay metal beverage and food packaging manufacturing plant. Ball committed to a 20-year  fixed electric rate for power supplied by three turbines, which will generate 13 million kilowatt hours per year, representing 20 percent of the plant’s electricity needs. With this first step to a low carbon energy supply future, we are avoiding approximately 8,200 metric tons of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions per year, equivalent  to the annual emissions of 1,800 passenger vehicles.
Beyond the environmental advantages, this project  
drives employee engagement and benefits the local community. The project partners also established three $5,000 annual scholarships for local high school students pursuing a STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) degree in higher education.
We continue to look for additional renewable energy 
opportunities at all of our locations and signed the  first power purchase agreement for solar energy at  our Fairfield, California, plant in early 2016. The panels will produce approximately 1.8 million kilowatt hours  of electricity per year.A Strategic Approach T o Increase Efficiency
We focus on six energy efficiency areas: employee 
engagement, machinery and equipment, heating and cooling, heat recovery, lighting and energy management. The majority of our energy consumption is attributed to air compressors and ovens within our plants. In an aluminum beverage can manufacturing plant, air compressors consume the bulk of the electricity (between 20 and 30 percent). We conduct as-needed audits of our compressed air systems  and optimize performance by reducing system pressure, minimizing wasteful air use and leaks, and decreasing manufacturing equipment demand. We continued to install more efficient compressors and connected additional equipment to low-pressure systems during the reporting period. At the end of 2015, 38 percent of our plants operated dual-air systems that supply equipment with either high- or low-pressure air. Compared to traditional systems that rely only on high pressure, dual-air systems reduce the energy needed to supply the total air pressure needed.
Within our operations, ovens are used for further processing 
cans after they have been washed, coated and inked. These ovens account for up to 75 percent of a beverage can plant’s natural gas usage and up to 20 percent of its electricity usage. Through oven audits, low-cost optimization projects and increased employee awareness of oven energy use and associated costs, we have realized natural gas efficiency gains in our can businesses of 15 percent since we started the audits in 2011.
During the reporting period, lighting was a priority for our 
energy engineers. While it is crucial to provide adequate lighting to keep our employees safe and so they can execute their jobs effectively, lights do not need to be continually at full power. Between 2014 and 2015, more than half  of our plants began LED conversion projects, with  10 percent of our plants undergoing complete conversions to LED lighting. One-third include adaptive lighting control options to further increase efficiency by matching the light levels to occupancy and daylight availability. Compared  to conventional lighting, a completely converted LED  plant with both lights and respective controls saves about  75 percent lighting electricity, with 55 percent of this savings from the LED and 45 percent from the controls. In addition to LED lighting, we are seeking opportunities to better utilize daylight in our facilities by installing skylights.
Line control optimization also remains an opportunity for 
improvement. When production lines stand still for short periods of time, not all equipment needs full power. By installing variable frequency drives (VFDs), we slow or  shut down certain systems to realize energy savings. For instance, once VFDs were installed in the process ovens at our Fairfield, California, facility in 2015, electricity and natural gas savings totaled more than 1 million kilowatt hours a year for a complete return on investment in less  than 18 months.
2015 GHG T arget Achieved
By 2018, we will launch a science-based greenhouse  gas (GHG) emissions reduction target consistent with the level of decarbonization required to limit global warming to less than 2 degrees Celsius compared to pre-industrial temperatures. Before we announce a target, we want to ensure we fully understand the GHG impacts of our evolving organization. Until our science-based GHG reduction target is released, we will continue to invest in, implement and report on our GHG emission reduction efforts.23OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCEBall Corporation proactively manages sustainability risks and opportunities. 
Our view is that the management team’s incentives should help the company 
focus on delivering long-term sustainable growth.  “
SEEMA SUCHAK
ESG Analyst Schroder Investment Management 
(London, UK)
“WATER
Some of the regions where we operate may experience 
significant water supply constraints as a result of a growing global population with greater demands for water-intensive food and energy, combined with increasing water needs and severe pollution of water resources in emerging economies.
Water scarcity, quality and discharge are operational and 
reputational risks for Ball and our value chain partners. In 2015, Ball used 7 million cubic meters of water primarily for washing cans and cooling energy-intensive equipment. Our can businesses accounted for 93 percent of that total. As part of our global commitment to be good water stewards, we aim to use as little water as possible in our operations. Because water is used in many steps along the packaging value chain—whether in mining and metal manufacturing or  electricity generation—we maintain an open dialogue  with our suppliers, customers and the communities  where we operate. 
A Deeper Understanding Of Our Water Risks
Since 2013, we have utilized tools developed by the  World Business Council for Sustainable Development  and the World Resources Institute to map our facilities against watershed stress areas. Based on 2025 projections, 95 percent of our production facilities, as of year-end 2015,  are located in areas with sufficient water supply—where the amount of water available meets the demand. We continue to focus on reducing water usage in plants where water scarcity will be high, and use these insights when planning new sites or introducing more water-intensive products at existing ones.As our company transforms, we will continue to evaluate our resource and operational footprint and the associated risk factors to establish a Global Water Framework. This framework will formalize our global water stewardship efforts and outline a clear strategy for further engagement and conservation in our operations and along our  value chain.
Increased Transparency
Due to the location-specific nature of water risks, we track usage at both the plant and equipment level so we can  better implement initiatives to reduce, reuse and recycle water in high-risk regions and for high-usage equipment. Because washers in our beverage packaging plants represent 80 percent of our water consumption, we have equipped the majority of our washers with sub-meters to monitor use in real time. By the end of 2015, eight beverage packaging facilities in North America and all European facilities had installed automated systems to track and compare water usage. This equipment monitoring technology allows facilities to benchmark their washer water data, identify areas of high water use and prioritize measures to increase water efficiency based on regional risk and cost. This new level of transparency is also a driver of employee awareness and engagement in water conservation measures.
We continue to invest in wastewater treatment technologies 
and evaluate advanced treatment options for effluents to enable water reuse. Additionally, we build partnerships with external resources such as universities to further evaluate innovative technologies that may allow us to significantly reduce the amount of fresh water required in our operations.
Full statement available online    24BALL CORPORATIONSUCCESS IN
TAKING THE HEAT  
Our Saratoga Springs, New York, beverage can plant has 
a multi-year track record of improving energy efficiency. In 2014, employees engineered a method to recover heat from the plant’s closed-loop cooling water system and reuse it for incoming process water.
When water circulates through air compressors, coolers, 
air dryers, vacuum pumps, decorator inkers and various other process equipment, it removes heat created during the manufacturing processes. Before the heated water reaches the cooling tower, it now travels through a heat exchanger that transfers the heat to incoming makeup water, which is then used in the can-washing process. The 
water is then transferred to the cooling tower at a lower 
temperature, reducing the load on the cooling tower, 
which utilizes energy to cool the water. During periods 
of high humidity, the system previously experienced 
heat pump failures, compressor inefficiencies and air 
dryer faulting due to high temperatures.
Reducing the cooling tower’s load benefits the  
plant by improving performance during hot summer 
days and reducing operating costs throughout the year. The plant noted a heat reduction of about 
22 percent of the cooling tower capacity, with an additional 20 percent reduction in cooling tower fan speed—both extending the life of the tower.  T o date, the project has recorded water savings of 
at least 2,000 gallons per day from water typically 
lost in the cooling tower due to evaporation, as well 
as natural gas savings of 90 kilowatt hours per day,  
equal to $18,000 per year.
 The direct savings from gas, electricity, water and 
improved efficiency of the compressors will cover  
the project cost in less than a year.MAKING WAVES IN
WATER RECLAMATION
While water reclamation is not a new idea in 
our business, it can be cost-prohibitive. Since regional regulation in India dictates that the only discharge method—even for treated water —is evaporation, the financial case was obvious for our greenfield plant in Ahmedabad, India. Because the impact extrusion process requires significant amounts of water, our engineering teams brainstormed ideas to install a full treatment system  to reclaim as much water as possible.
The plant partnered with a local company to design an 
onsite system to recycle the water, eliminating discharge costs and highlighting our commitment to water stewardship in the local community. The collaboration of third-party expertise with our water reclamation experience was successful. The new treatment system recycles water in two steps. In the flocculation step, process water is brought to a neutral pH during primary treatment, then is slowly and gently mixed so particles can group together into flocs. After this occurs, gravity removes suspended solids from the water through sedimentation. Then the sediment is processed into filter cakes—much like other plants generate through waste water treatment. All filter cake generated through this process is diverted to local companies for beneficial use. During secondary treatment, the water is cooled and filtered, and goes through two phases of reverse osmosis to further eliminate contaminants in the water so it can be reused in the manufacturing processes.
Though the plant only began producing cans in the 
second half of 2015, the project already has achieved significant results, reclaiming 95 percent of the plant’s water with only 5 percent lost through evaporation, during reverse osmosis, and in the filter cake. Like many best practices within our operations, this successful new process has been shared with other Ball engineers.WASTE
As our business continues to evolve and production volumes 
grow, our waste strategy remains the same—focus on systematically reducing the amount of waste generated, eliminating waste sent to landfills and increasing  recycling rates.
Accurate Reporting Increases  
Employee Commitment
Because waste classifications and disposal methods vary 
from country to country, based on legal requirements and local infrastructure, reporting accurate waste data in a timely and consistent way throughout our global operations is a complex task. In cooperation with waste management contractors around the world, we have utilized a standardized waste data collection process globally since 2008. Each manufacturing facility tracks generated waste and material diversion monthly using seven categories. This categorized monitoring provides insight on where the biggest opportunities exist to reduce waste and divert it from less beneficial streams like landfill and waste-to-energy.
We continue to educate our employees about the benefits 
of recycling, provide a convenient recycling infrastructure in our facilities and cultivate a conservation mindset. Operations leaders and facility management support plant efforts and provide assistance.
Since 2010, we have increased the amount of waste that is 
recycled and reused from 44 to 71 percent.  Diverting waste from landfills is a challenge in some regions, especially when landfill costs are low or when waste must be shipped over long distances for alternative treatment options. We strive to minimize waste sent to landfill when it is environmentally sound and economically feasible.
 SAFETY
Because our people are our most valuable resource, maintaining a safe and healthy work environment is and will remain a top priority at Ball. Through employee commitment and the use of various safety tools, we continue to improve our safety performance and strive to reach our long-term vision of zero work-related incidents.
The health and safety of employees is everyone’s 
responsibility. Because management commitment and active employee engagement play a vital role in achieving our safety goal—to reduce our three-year rolling average T otal Recordable Incident Rate by 25 percent—safety performance is communicated monthly to senior-level leadership and quarterly to executive management to  track our progress and ensure accountability.
Our health and safety efforts are focused on continuous 
improvement and we regularly check the effectiveness  of plant programs through internal audits. T o support our safety culture, elements of our health and safety management system include policies, planning, implementation and operation, checking and corrective action, and management review.
More Than Just Numbers
For us, our safety metrics represent more than just numbers. They exemplify the health and well-being of our employees. While we reduced our T otal Recordable Incident Rate  (TRIR, recordable incidents per 200,000 hours worked) by  22 percent in 2015, we did not achieve our past goal of reducing our TRIR by 10 percent year-over-year in 2014.  Ball strives to be a leader among can manufacturers and in the manufacturing industry as a whole. We continue to report incident rates consistently lower than the manufacturing (4.0) and metal can manufacturing (2.5) industry as reported by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics for 2014. We attribute this success to our continued focus on machine guarding, near-miss reporting, behavior-based safety and targeted projects at facilities. Going forward, we will expand our safety focus to further prioritize hearing loss and lacerations.
Making Safe Strides T o Culture Change
Safety culture change addresses the hidden beliefs, norms and assumptions that govern behavior with the goal of changing norms that undermine safe behaviors. Through a long-term safety culture change process, we continue enabling employees to take ownership of their safety and  the safety of their colleagues.
•
  In 2015, 15 of our 62 packaging manufacturing locations 
worldwide reported zero recordable accidents.
•  Our North American slug manufacturing business reduced their TRIR by 47 percent in 2014-2015. This  positive change was driven b y continuous improvement  
of employee engagement programs, results of long-term safety culture change and structured projects that included behavior-based safety and standardization of work procedures.
When our greenfield plants were built in Mexico and India, Environmental Health and Safety professionals from around Ball provided their expertise and training to new employees to ensure they understood the importance of our safety culture, and establish a foundation of safe practices by proactively empowering, supporting and engaging employees from day one.27OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCEOur T alent Management practices continue to evolve  
in support of our Drive for 10 vision. Because our more  than 18,700 employees worldwide are instrumental to  the success of our organization, we must strategically  select, develop, retain and engage our workforce, and provide them with opportunities to thrive.
INTEGRATED GLOBAL  
TALENT MANAGEMENT
Over the last few years, Ball’s T alent Management programs 
and processes have evolved in response to the increasingly global scope of our organization, and the need for integrated, unbiased and fully inclusive practices to best support a sustainable workforce. 
 
During the reporting period, Ball launched Leadership Excellence through Awareness and Practice (LEAP), a  global, cross-divisional leadership development program for mid-career leaders. The five-month program provides participants with practical tools that can be put into  practice immediately, and allows for continued learning  TALENT MANAGEMENT
By acquiring, developing, engaging and retaining the best talent, we create  
long-term success for our employees, our company and our external stakeholders.
and peer-to-peer discussions regarding real-life situations and application.
Succession Management
T o best support a sustainable workforce and ensure business continuity through organizational changes, we developed a globally harmonized approach to succession management. These efforts have enabled Ball leadership to place internal talent into key roles. In 2015, for example, an internal candidate was promoted to the role of senior vice president, Ball Corporation, and chief operating officer, Global Metal Food & Aerosol Packaging Division.
Global Human Resource Information System
In 2015, Ball completed the rollout of its Global People System (GPS), which holds all core workforce information. Access to consolidated workforce data affords Ball the opportunity to effectively and accurately report on, analyze and leverage workforce-related information. We continue to assess opportunities to leverage technology in support  of workforce initiatives.
28BALL CORPORATIONLEAP
INTO EUROPE
The creation and delivery of Ball’s Leadership 
Excellence through Awareness and Practice (LEAP)  in 2014 was a global effort in which 12 leaders participated. The program’s initial success led to the facilitation of an additional LEAP session, including cross-business participants from across the globe.
Given the announcement of the Rexam acquisition, 
LEAP came at a pivotal moment for the participants in our European beverage packaging division. Purposeful adjustments were made to the program’s content to address cultural nuances and maximize relevance of leadership tools. Twelve business  leaders from Germany, The Netherlands and 
Switzerland spent a week together deepening  
their relationships, sharing experiences and 
identifying tools required to guide their  
teams through organizational change.
Ongoing group coaching provided program participants with the opportunity to share 
their leadership challenges and successes with 
one another in the proceeding months. Leaders appreciated the follow-up coaching and evaluated  
the training as very effective, particularly because it 
was easy for them to incorporate learned principles, skills and knowledge into their jobs. They changed their leadership style in a positive way.EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
An engaged workforce is critical to Ball’s success. Ball 
launched its first global employee engagement survey in 2012 and subsequently conducted a second survey in 2014, soliciting feedback in areas such as empowerment, leadership, sustainability, diversity and inclusion, and customer focus. The 2014 survey showed an increase in participation, with more than 10,800 employee responses. Employee engagement remains high, and our results demonstrate higher levels of engagement versus manufacturing and aerospace industry benchmarks. The survey revealed a strong correlation between Ball’s sustainability actions and employee engagement,  underlining that sustainability is an important driver for talent attraction and retention, and also contributes to  high employee performance.
ORGANIZATIONAL TRANSFORMATION
In 2016 and 2017, we will implement significant integration efforts to support the acquisition of several thousand employees. This organizational transformation provides  Ball the opportunity to design and implement a combined future-state organizational structure, to prioritize and execute on cultural alignment efforts and to ensure  leaders are well-equipped to support their teams through significant change.
DIVERSITY & INCLUSION
Our focus on our people and culture, as well as diversity and inclusion (D&I), will be instrumental to our long-term success. In 2015, Ball created the role of Vice President, Diversity & Inclusion to drive this effort. Also in support of this opportunity, every business unit has established annual D&I goals, and all executives, vice president-level and above, were tasked with creating individual D&I goals, which are tied to their individual performance appraisals.
By 2020, we plan to have organization-wide D&I tools for 
employees and managers, expand our Ball Resource Groups globally and meet the criteria required to secure a place on the Diversity, Inc. T op 50 Companies for Diversity.
Diversity & Inclusion Council
Ball’s D&I Council serves as a decision-making body, as well as an advisory board to our CEO and his executive council. The council’s makeup is intended to reflect our company’s diversity to help ensure its focus on issues and opportunities relevant to the organization and its employees. The D&I Council also includes external experts who help the council lead, advocate for, coordinate, inform and monitor the strategic D&I process.
Ball Resource Groups
Ball Corporation supports our Ball Resource Groups  (BRGs) as value-added organizations that help promote an inclusive and diverse workforce. Our BRG members participate in a number of activities focused on career development, company culture, community outreach and commercial activities. BRGs work with Ball leadership to address matters of interest to their members and each  group welcomes all employees.MANETTE SNOW
Vice President, Diversity & InclusionWith different 
perspectives come 
different solutions  
to help our  
customers win in  
the marketplace.
““
Full statement available online    30BALL CORPORATIONCOMMUNITY AMBASSADORS
A healthy business depends on thriving communities. Ball’s 
commitment to the communities where we live and operate 
has been an integral part of our corporate culture ever since 
the five Ball brothers founded the company in 1880. We 
support organizations, programs and civic initiatives that 
advance sustainable livelihoods.
For us, community engagement is how our company and our 
employees enrich the places where we live and work beyond 
providing jobs, benefits and paying local taxes. Through 
the Ball Foundation, corporate giving, employee giving and 
volunteerism, we invest in the future of the communities  
that sustain us.
THE BALL FOUNDATION
The Ball Foundation is the philanthropic arm of Ball 
Corporation.    Grants are awarded to nonprofit 
organizations to fund programs that create a positive, 
measurable impact in four key areas linked to Ball’s  
business and strategy: education, packaging recycling, 
disaster relief and food security. Specifically, grants are awarded in the communities in which we operate in the 
United States. The Foundation awarded $2.5 million in 
grants during the reporting period.
STEM Education:  The Ball Foundation focuses its 
education funding on science, technology, engineering,  
math (STEM) for K-12 and higher education programs 
geared toward encouraging and preparing students for 
careers in engineering. Programs include supporting 
diversity by providing opportunities for educational 
achievement and diverse thought regardless of racial  
and ethnic background, gender or economic status.
With the help of the Ball Foundation, more than  
300 students participated in STEM-focused camps  
hosted by Regis University and the National Society  
of Black Engineers in 2015. This investment included 
mentoring, hands-on learning opportunities and educational materials for students. More than 40 mentors, consisting of 
diverse college students majoring in STEM fields, visited Ball 
for career night, where they networked with Ball employees 
who work in STEM positions. They also met recruiters and learned about Ball’s internship program. Events like this are 
a great opportunity to position Ball as an employer of choice and to highlight career paths at Ball in STEM fields.
Packaging Recycling:  Recycling is critical to the future 
of our business, society and planet. The Ball Foundation 
supports programs that increase metal packaging recycling 
rates, improve collection processes and provide education 
about the benefits of recycling. In 2014 and 2015, the 
foundation supported The Recycling Partnership, reaching 
1.2 million U.S. households to increase recovery of recyclable 
materials at the curb (Page 14).
Also during the reporting period, the Ball Foundation 
partnered with Eco-Cycle’s Green Star Schools program 
targeting zero waste in Boulder, Colorado, schools. Up to two-thirds of the discards from each of the Green Star 
Schools is kept out of landfills. Currently, there are  
43 schools enrolled in the program teaching more than 
18,000 students and their families the value of zero  
waste to landfill. 
   By focusing and enhancing corporate giving and volunteerism, we invest in the  
future of the communities where we operate, and help them and us thrive.
31COMMUNITY AMBASSADORSLET’S CAN 
HUNGER
Food security is a key focus area for Ball’s community 
engagement efforts because it is closely tied to our North 
American food can business. In 2014, one in seven 
Americans lived in food-insecure households, including 
32.8 million adults and 15.3 million children. Because 
the nutritional value is sealed inside, canned food 
provides safe, nutritious meals to those who need  
it. Canned foods also help minimize food waste  
and are easy to prepare.
Ball and its employees are committed to helping 
ensure that everyone in their communities 
has access to nutritious food. In 2015, Ball’s 
annual “Let’s Can Hunger” food 
drive expanded across all North 
American locations. Events in the 
U.S., Canada and Mexico were held to 
unite employees and collect donations. 
In two weeks, employees donated 
more than 170,000 pounds of canned 
food and raised more than $215,000 
in monetary contributions, which provided 
approximately 700,000 meals to individuals in 
37 communities where Ball operates.
The food collected, combined with employee 
donations and the money unlocked through 
Ball’s matching gifts program, helped 
nonprofit organizations provide and improve 
local access to sufficient food resources 
for individuals and families in need. During 
the reporting period, Ball employees also volunteered more than 1,200 hours alone in food- and nutrition-related causes serving nonprofit organizations.In addition, the Ball Foundation supports Oskar Blues’  
CAN’d Aid Foundation, in particular their beverage can 
recycling program, “Crush it Crusade. ” With the goal of 
recycling 1 million cans, this program provides assistance  
to communities and local nonprofit organizations to get 
away-from-home recycling programs off the ground.     
Disaster Relief:  Being a good neighbor, corporate  
citizen and employer of choice in communities where  
we have a presence is important to Ball and the Ball 
Foundation. During the reporting period, the Ball Foundation partnered with the American Red Cross  Disaster Responder Program, helping the Red Cross  
deliver vital relief to people affected by disasters, big  
and small, across the U.S. and around the world.
Ball and Oskar Blues’ CAN’d Aid Foundation coordinated 
efforts for disaster relief during 2015, and provided  
150,000 cans of drinking water to victims of the South 
Carolina flooding and northern T exas tornado, as 
well as residents in Flint, Michigan, who were dealing with toxic lead contamination in their drinking water. 
Because aluminum beverage cans are transport-efficient, 
unbreakable, infinitely recyclable and maintain the high 
quality of the product inside, cans filled with drinking water 
are a perfect option to help people affected by disasters.
 
During the reporting period, the Ball Foundation awarded 
grants to fund Habitat for Humanity’s critical home repair 
programs for people who were displaced by the Colorado 
floods of 2013. Thanks to the funding and volunteer support 
of Ball employees, we contributed to the completion of  
21 home repair projects and one home replacement.EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERING
Supporting and empowering employees to make a  
difference in their communities is part of Ball’s culture  
and a foundational component of Ball’s corporate  
citizenship program. Employees are encouraged to  
share their time and expertise across the world with  
many nonprofit organizations. In 2015, for example, our 
employees logged over 32,000 hours of community service.
In fostering a culture of volunteerism, employees in the  
U.S. and Canada can track their volunteer hours and earn 
$20 per hour to be donated to the charity of their choice. 
A website is available for employees to find volunteer 
opportunities, create their own projects and track their 
volunteer hours. While employees can support any  
nonprofit, many support Ball’s key strategic initiatives  
in support of disaster relief, STEM education, recycling  
and food security. Collectively, Ball employees’  
contributions make a great impact in local communities, contribute to individual development and drive overall employee engagement.
Ball Community Ambassadors Program:  As part 
of Ball’s culture of volunteerism, the Ball Community 
Ambassadors program encourages employees in the U.S.  
and Canada to support causes that matter most to them. 
Ball employees also have the potential to engage colleagues 
in volunteerism and to play a key role in enhancing 
partnerships in the communities where they live and work. 
In addition to financial support of volunteer hours, Ball 
matches up to $5,000 per employee per calendar year for 
qualifying nonprofit organizations.33COMMUNITY AMBASSADORSAltogether, employee donations and the company match 
grew to more than $2.5 million in 2015 (up from $2.1 million 
in 2014). Employees also logged more than 32,000 hours  
of volunteer service in 2015 (up from nearly 18,000 hours 
in 2014).
Plant Participation in Community Programs:  
Our plants and employees around the world contribute  
to their communities financially and through volunteering 
their time. T otal plant giving totaled nearly $800,000 in 
2014–2015. Ball’s plants also donated their time to local 
causes such as community clean-up events (e.g., employees 
in Bellegarde, France, cleaned five miles of the Valserine  
river banks) and education (e.g., employees at our Velim, 
Czech Republic, plant supported a local environmental 
education fair in collaboration with the environmental 
agency). Our Hubbard, Ohio, plant donated $10,000 to the Hubbard High School STEM program and welcomed 
students to the plant to demonstrate the feasibility of a 
robot built for can manufacturing.
Ball Aerospace has supported programs such as FIRST 
Robotics  (For Inspiration and Recognition in Science and 
T echnology) through donations and employee volunteering 
annually since 2001. The program gives student teams the 
opportunity to design and build complex robots working 
side by side with Ball’s high-tech professionals. In addition 
to acquiring hands-on engineering skills, students gain self-
confidence along with leadership and teamwork abilities.    
IMPACT 2030:  Since 2015, Ball Corporation has 
partnered with IMPACT 2030, a business-led effort with 
the goal to enhance the United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) through corporate employee 
volunteerism. Three of the 17 SDGs (zero hunger, quality CHRIS JARVIS
Co-Founder, Senior Partner, Realized WorthBall is simultaneously providing a private-sector role model for their peers  
and a respected global voice to help champion a vision to help solve some of  
the world’s more challenging problems through collaboration and partnership.
““
Full statement available online  
education, responsible consumption and production) are 
directly tied to Ball’s key focus areas and Ball employee 
volunteering programs. By partnering with other 
community-minded businesses, civil society, academia  
and philanthropic organizations, IMPACT 2030 will 
provide Ball with advanced tools to engage global 
employees in volunteer work and better measure the  
impact of volunteer efforts.    34BALL CORPORATION
FOLLOW US ONLINE
www.facebook.com/BallCorpHQ  
www.twitter.com/BallCorpHQ  
www.linkedin.com/company/ball  
www.youtube.com/user/BallCorp  
www.instagram.com/ballcorporationCONTACTS
INVESTOR RELATIONS
+1 (303) 460 - 3537 
www.ball.com/investors
SUSTAINABILITY
+1 (303) 460 - 4429 sustainability@ball.comwww.ball.com/sustainability
CORPORATE COMMUNICATIONS
+1 (303) 460 - 2476 corpinfo@ball.com  
www.ball.com/media-room
You can download this report along with 
additional sustainability information at  
www.ball.com/sustainabilityFORWARD-LOOKING  
STATEMENTS
This release contains “forward-looking” statements 
concerning future events and financial performance. Words such as “expects, ” “anticipates, ” “estimates” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied. The company undertakes  no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Key risks and uncertainties are summarized in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including Exhibit 99 in our  Form 10-K, which are available on our website and at www.sec.gov . Factors that might affect, but are not limited 
to: a) our packaging segments include product demand fluctuations; availability/cost of raw materials; competitive packaging, pricing and substitution; changes in climate and weather; crop yields; competitive activity; failure to achieve productivity improvements or cost reductions; mandatory deposit or other restrictive packaging laws; customer and supplier consolidation, power and supply chain influence; changes in major customer or supplier contracts or loss of a major customer or supplier; political instability and sanctions; and changes in foreign exchange or tax rates; b) our aerospace segment include funding, authorization, availability and returns of government and commercial contracts; and delays, extensions and technical uncertainties affecting segment contracts; c) the company as a whole include those listed plus: changes in senior management; regulatory action or issues including tax, environmental, health and workplace safety, including U.S. FDA and other actions or public concerns affecting products filled in our containers, or chemicals or substances used in raw materials or in the manufacturing process; technological developments and innovations; litigation; strikes; labor cost changes; rates of return on assets of the company’s defined benefit retirement plans; pension changes; uncertainties surrounding the U.S. government budget, sequestration and debt limit; reduced cash flow; ability to achieve cost-out initiatives; interest rates affecting our debt; and successful or unsuccessful acquisitions and divestitures, including with respect to the Rexam PLC acquisition; the effect of the acquisition on our business relationships, operating results and business generally; the outcome of any legal proceedings that may be instituted against us related to the acquisition of Rexam PLC.BALL CORPORATION
10 Longs Peak Drive  
Broomfield, CO 80021 USA
+1.303.469.3131
www .ball.c om
© Ball Corporation 2016. All rights reserved. 
Ball and the Ball logo and names of Ball products are trademarks or registered trademarks of Ball Corporation