BALL CORPORATION 2021 Combined Report Business & Sustainability Update
FPO9200 West 108th Circle
Westminster, CO 80021 USAwww.ball.comBALL CORPORATION COMBINED REPORT
2021 Business & Sustainability Update
STAKEHOLDER LETTER 01
GLOBAL BEVERAGE PACKAGING 06
ALUMINUM CUPS 08
AEROSOL PACKAGING 09
BALL AEROSPACE 10
SUSTAINABILITY IS OUR 12 
BUSINESS STRATEGY  
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP 14
SOCIAL IMPACT 15
FINANCIAL DATA 32
ENVIRONMENTAL & SOCIAL DATA 33
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 34
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 35
ABOUT OUR REPORTING 36TABLE OF CONTENTS  
Throughout the PDF of this report online, click this symbol  for additional web content.Ball Corporation is one of the world’s leading suppliers of aluminum packaging for the 
beverage, personal care and household products industries. Our sustainable, aluminum 
packaging products are produced for a variety of end uses and are manufactured in 
over 70 facilities around the world. We also provide aerospace and other technologies 
and services to the U.S. government through our aerospace segment.
Ball Corporation and its subsidiaries employ 24,300 people worldwide and reported 
2021 net sales of $13.8 billion. STRONGER  
T  GETHER2021 proved to be another year of notable progress for Ball Corporation. 
We remained committed to operating our business in a way that generated 
higher earnings and Economic Value Added (EVA®) dollars and positive 
returns for our shareholders.
Our purpose is driven by an understanding of the important role we play in shaping the future, not just for 
ourselves, but for the many communities in which we operate and for the planet as a whole. We know we 
are stronger together when we work across industries and geographies, collectively creating a better future 
for generations to come. We envision a future in which recycling is a common and everyday practice around 
the globe, with products of all types being packaged in infinitely recyclable aluminum,  and one where 
critical technologies continuously evaluate the health of our planet and its many ecosystems to give us the 
intelligence we need to be more responsible and sustainable.
Given Ball Corporation’s role in this vision for the future, we took intentional actions to make 2021 a defining 
year for our organization. With purpose, conviction and through the lens of Drive for 10 — We Know Who 
We Are, We Know What is Important and We Know Where We Are Going — we established ambitious 2030 
sustainability goals that will impact Ball and our entire value chain, and we took deliberate action to define TO OUR FELLOW 
STAKEHOLDERS
1
BALL CORPORATIONchange, we have demonstrated that our success 
is greatest when we take collective action to make 
the world a better place. Further, we are confident 
we have the right blend of talent and a winning 
product portfolio to continue delivering results and 
advancing our business for decades to come.
Through a combination of resilience, determination 
and the unprecedented global growth of our 
aluminum packaging and aerospace technologies 
businesses, last year we increased comparable 
diluted earnings per share by 18%. Further, our 
strong balance sheet and cash flow from operations our future and allow our growth ambitions to 
become a reality. We have said it before, and we 
know it to be true, Our Time Is Now, and we remain 
on course for making a difference for our customers, 
consumers, communities and the planet. In this, our 
inaugural combined annual and sustainability report, 
we invite you to learn about the many ways Ball 
Corporation achieves strong financial performance 
through the lenses of environmental, social and 
economic sustainability.
POSITIONED FOR ONGOING SUCCESS
Despite impacts from the lingering global pandemic, far-reaching supply chain disruptions, and the need 
to balance new ways of working and connecting 
with each other while prioritizing the health and 
safety of our workforce, we continued to innovate 
and deliver strong results throughout 2021.  
Our performance remains a testament to the  
unique and inclusive culture we have nurtured,  
our EVA®-driven owner’s mindset and those  
Drive for 10 tenets that continue to guide our 
business. The growth outlined in this report reminds 
us that we are indeed stronger together, and when 
confronted by challenges and obstacles, like those 
stemming from the global pandemic and climate STAKEHOLDER LETTER
*  EVArepresentsnetoperatingearningsaftertaxeslessacapitalchargeof
9%aftertaxesonaverageinvestedcapitalemployed($inmillions).2021
EVA DOLLARS*$2902020
EVA DOLLARS$2712019
$217
EVA DOLLARS
2
underpinned $1.7 billion of disciplined capital 
expenditures strategically aligned to address  
our global growth agenda. We also increased  
EVA® dollars by 7% and returned approximately  
$950 million to shareholders in the form of 
dividends and share repurchases. With our defined 
purpose in tow, we move forward with a sense of 
urgency and our sights set on strengthening our 
company’s commitments and increasing consumers’ 
awareness around sustainability, aluminum and a 
circular economy, while simultaneously accelerating 
our own growth. Our more than 24,300 employees 
are united with a common goal, ready to make the 
most of the growth opportunities that await us, 
while leaving a positive mark on our world.
SUSTAINABILITY IS OUR GROWTH STRATEGY
At Ball, sustainability does not refer to ideals 
or “nice to dos,” but rather imperative business 
fundamentals that we believe serve as linchpins for long-term, sustainable growth. Ball is committed 
to improving product stewardship by strategically 
supporting our customers’ business goals and 
developing comprehensive net zero emissions 
and circularity strategies to enable the delivery 
of holistic solutions throughout the entire life 
cycle of our products. Our truly collaborative 
approach ensures our entire value chain – suppliers, 
customers and other business partners – are 
working together to make a difference in our 
industry. Across our entire organization, we are 
united in our efforts to increase the global recycling 
rate for aluminum packaging to 90% through a 
combination of initiatives and programs designed 
to educate consumers, advance public policy and 
upgrade much-needed recycling infrastructure. 
We remain committed to demonstrating our 
manufacturing expertise and climate leadership by 
championing our vision for the future and leading 
by example. We know true leadership begins STAKEHOLDER LETTER
3
BALL CORPORATIONwithin our own manufacturing operations where 
we are pursuing real circularity for our products, 
streamlining our operations to be as efficient as 
possible, and taking deliberate actions to source 
100% of our aluminum needs from certified 
sustainable sources by 2030. To further enhance 
the resilience of our supply chain and strengthen 
our roadmap to achieving our carbon reduction 
targets, we are pursuing and, for many of  
our manufacturing locations, have already  
achieved certifications through the Aluminum 
Stewardship Initiative.
At Ball, we understand that our growth and industry 
leadership are made possible by the outstanding 
contributions of our people, which is why we place great importance on the social component 
of sustainability. Across our global organization, 
we are maximizing the positive impact on our 
employees and the communities where we live 
and work by defining and actively working toward 
social objectives focused on inclusion, training and 
volunteerism – all designed to provide our people 
with a sense of purpose and belonging. And always, 
our Drive for 10 strategy remains foundational to 
all that we achieve and instills in us the passion 
and commitment to conduct our business in a way 
that elevates our employees and our communities. 
With these truths in mind, we developed our 2030 
Sustainability Goals in a holistic way to also focus on 
social sustainability and the undeniable importance 
we place on people, culture and community.As part of this effort, we recognize the need 
to increase the speed of our efforts to ensure 
our global workforce reflects the communities 
in which we operate. Each of our businesses is 
focused on our 2025 diversity and inclusion goals, 
understanding these efforts will enhance Ball’s 
ability to attract and retain diverse talent, which in 
turn enhances our ability to innovate for the future 
and create solutions that address both localized 
and global business needs. Some examples of 
these goals include female, ethnic and minority 
representation, and the recruitment of diverse  
talent for plant production and leadership roles. In 
this report, you will learn more about our diversity 
and inclusion goals, along with the impacts 
we anticipate for our businesses and regional 
operations. Additionally, as part of our focus on 
enriching our communities, we are aiming for a  
35% participation rate in giving and volunteer 
activities, along with a goal of $1 million in-kind 
donations by 2025. These commitments are 
intrinsically linked to our Drive for 10 sustainability 
tenet and speak to the determination we have as a 
collective group of employees to demonstrate our 
leadership position now and well into the future.
READY TO MEET THE DEMANDS OF THE FUTURE
As part of our established multi-year succession 
planning process, we recently announced that  
Dan Fisher will be assuming the role of CEO, while 
John Hayes will remain Chairman of the Board. With 
great confidence in Dan’s readiness and ability to STAKEHOLDER LETTER
4
lead, our board, employees and all of our stakeholders look to Dan as the 12th CEO in Ball’s 142-year history.  
He will not lead us alone – our entire organization operates within the context of an owner’s mindset, and 
we each take great pride and assume a high degree of responsibility in making decisions that accelerate our 
collective progress forward. With our Drive for 10 vision as our guiding light, we remain united in our efforts 
to capitalize on the opportunities at our doorstep, while shaping a bright future for our global community. 
As we look ahead, we expect to accelerate our growth even further given the strong demand for  
sustainable aluminum packaging, our execution on significant aerospace contracted backlog, and strong 
returns on deployed capital across our innovative product portfolio. Doing so will allow us to exceed our 
long-term diluted earnings per share growth goal of at least 10% to 15% and increase EVA® dollars generated  
on a growing invested capital base, all while returning significant value to shareholders. As you will read  
in this report, our focus on value creation through sustainability is truly a multifaceted approach that  
directly supports EVA® generation within an environmental, social and economic scope. All of Ball’s  
businesses – global beverage packaging, aluminum cups, aerosol packaging and aerospace  
technologies – are anchored in our Drive for 10 vision and sustainability commitments, and we are  
ready to continue defining the benchmark for excellence while leading our industry forward. With  
resounding certainty, we know that we are stronger together, so we look to the future with great  
optimism and an eagerness to demonstrate that together we can and will achieve extraordinary things.
JOHN A. HAYES
Chairman and CEO,  
Ball CorporationDANIEL W. FISHER
President and CEO-elect,  
Ball CorporationSTAKEHOLDER LETTER
5
BALL CORPORATIONGLOBAL BEVERAGE 
PACKAGING
Our global beverage business  continues to focus on the expansion of our 
manufacturing footprint and the implementation of new capabilities that 
together position Ball as the customer’s first choice and a true solutions-based 
partner ready to address the increasingly complex challenges encountered in 
today’s world.
Demand for aluminum beverage cans continues to outstrip supply around the globe. Our global engineering and 
operations teams are executing at a high level and because of their dedication, we exited 2021 with an additional 
12 billion units of newly installed capacity.
Our product portfolio continues to support our customers’ new brands as well as broaden the addressable 
market for aluminum cans and bottles. Growth is further supported by our ambitious 2030 Sustainability Goals 
and Our Vision Towards a Perfect Circle , which lays the foundation for the transition that is needed to scale 
truly circular packaging solutions and address climate challenges. We are operating safely, controlling the things 
we can control, recovering costs and delivering high-quality cans to our customers. Year over year, we reduced 
carbon emissions associated with the direct operations of our global beverage business by 20%, primarily due  
to several renewable energy projects which came online in 2021.
NORTH AMERICA:
In North America, beverage year-end volumes were up 4% and specialty mix improved to 37%. We installed  
four can manufacturing lines in our Glendale, Arizona, and Pittston, Pennsylvania, facilities and started 
production at our new aluminum ends manufacturing plant in Bowling Green, Kentucky. Across our customer 
base, beverage can demand was strong among all brand categories: alcohol, soft drinks, energy and water. We 
expect this favorable trend to continue and support additional EVA®-enhancing opportunities, including the 
6
recently announced additional capacity investments 
in Nevada and North Carolina which will serve long-
term committed volume with global and regional 
strategic customers.
One way Ball is driving thought leadership around 
real circularity is by commissioning comprehensive 
recycling research. In 2021, in conjunction with the 
international environment consultancy Eunomia, 
we released our 50 States of Recycling report, 
which contains the first state-by-state comparison 
of recycling rates for the most commonly used 
beverage containers across the United States. We 
have been using data from this report to inform 
stakeholders and to advocate for effective 
and fair policies that can radically 
increase the aluminum recycling rate in 
the U.S., which is critical to achieving 
our sustainability goals and driving 
resilience in our supply chain.SOUTH AMERICA:
In South America, beverage year-end shipments 
were up 3% and specialty mix improved to 69%. 
Ball continues to experience upward momentum in 
South America, and our additional investments in 
our new Frutal, Brazil, plant as well as other projects 
will continue to support regional growth in 2022 and 
beyond. Additionally, the 40% female representation 
at our Frutal plant demonstrates our actionable 
commitment to diversity and inclusion, and the 
impact we are making as a result of our focus on 
people and culture. 
To encourage recycling habits and promote 
circularity, Ball announced plans to create Brazil’s 
first circular economy lab on the island of Fernando 
de Noronha , one of the country’s most popular 
tourist destinations and a leader in sustainable 
tourism. The lab will promote real circularity on the 
island by centralizing the collection and recycling of 
aluminum cans at a new, state-of-the-art facility.EMEA:
Our EMEA team executed very well. Segment 
volume for 2021 increased 8% and specialty mix 
improved to 56%. Future growth will be driven by 
new and existing categories utilizing cans and 
additional regional plant opportunities emerging to 
fulfill demand in the biggest can markets across 
EMEA. Further, our new greenfield plants in the 
U.K., Russia and Czech Republic are supported by 
long duration contracts for committed volumes with 
global and regional key accounts. 
The inaugural European Recycling Tour was carried 
out by Every Can Counts , an industry activation 
supported by Ball, in 19 European countries and at 
nearly 20 landmarks. The initiative reached more 
than 4 million people during 2021 – highlighting 
the value of beverage can 
recycling and inspiring 
people to put their cans 
in the right bin while  
‘on the go.’
BallannouncedplanstocreateBrazil’sfirstcircular
economylabonthepopulartouristdestinationIslandof
FernandodeNoronha,aleaderinsustainabletourism.AcrossEurope,the‘Every  
CanCounts’recyclingtour  
reached4millionpeople  
in2021andencourages  
‘onthego’canrecyclingat  
landmarksin19countries.  GLOBAL BEVERAGE PACKAGING
7
BALL CORPORATIONALUMINUM CUPS
The Ball Aluminum Cup™ represents a great 
combination of innovation and sustainability – a 
fully recyclable product that provides consumers 
with an enhanced drinking experience.  The 
aluminum cup was designed to address a need  
that existed for sporting and entertainment venues 
that wished to provide their patrons with a premium 
drinking experience. The cup is made of easily 
and infinitely recyclable aluminum and, due to its 
increasing popularity and established recycling 
infrastructure, our opportunity for continued 
growth is immense.
The first cups manufacturing plant began 
production in Rome, Georgia, late in 2020, and  
we have already increased production output 
to meet growing product demands by investing 
in another manufacturing line. Following this 
secondary investment, we now have the ability 
to produce multiple cup sizes within a single 
manufacturing location. In 2021, our cups team 
launched “The Party Starts Here” marketing 
campaign , featuring Jason Momoa, to engage 
and educate consumers about the infinite 
recyclability of the aluminum cup and drive volume 
growth. In 2021, the cup was officially available for 
purchase at major retailers  in all 50 states across 
the U.S., representing more than 20,000 points of 
retail distribution. Additionally, our aluminum cups JasonMomoatoutsthe
infiniterecyclabilityof  
theBallAluminumCup  
inournationalTVspot.
SinceOctober2020,  
BallArenahaseliminated
271,000plasticcupsand
bottlesfromthevenue.team signed contracts with Amazon and other 
major retailers to provide 16-ounce, 20-ounce and 
24-ounce cups to consumers across the country.
Designing the aluminum cup for sustainability 
means continually innovating and we have 
identified a pathway for reducing the weight 
of the product by 10% over the next two years. 
Additionally, we partnered with our aluminum 
suppliers to arrange for all aluminum sheets 
used in the production of cups to be of  
90% recycled content origin beginning 
this year. These initiatives will result in 
an estimated greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions savings of 36.9 metric  
tons per one million cups produced.
Ball expanded our partnership with Kroenke 
Sports & Entertainment (KSE) in 2021 as a way to 
increase aluminum use and recycling at its sporting 
venues, including SoFi Stadium in Los Angeles and 
Ball Arena  in Denver. As a result of this effort, all 
beverage packaging used in Ball Arena is shifting  
to aluminum, which supports the venue’s efforts  
to reduce plastic use during events. 
Recycling is foundational to our sustainability 
ambition and the primary reason we partnered with 
a third-party consultancy to conduct a recycling 
rate survey for all cup materials, which confirmed that plastic cup recycling rates are at or near zero 
percent in the United States and Europe. Since 
2020, Ball Arena has eliminated 271,000 plastic 
cups and bottles from use. By switching beverages 
to aluminum cans, cups, and bottles, venues are 
able to capture value by collecting a cleaner stream 
of aluminum. As a result of this effort, all beverage 
packaging used in Ball Arena will continue to 
transition from plastic to aluminum in 2022 to 
achieve 100% aluminum beverage packaging.
8
AEROSOL PACKAGING
Ball’s aluminum aerosol packaging offers unique and sustainable solutions for 
single-use recyclable and refillable options in the personal care, household 
and beverage packaging products categories.
To meet customer demands, our aluminum aerosol business is undergoing a transformational and strategic shift 
to offer sustainable options for products that have historically been packaged in plastics. As we look ahead, 
we continue to approach the business with a holistic EVA® mindset – looking for ways to generate long-term, 
sustainable growth, while expanding our product portfolio and promoting aluminum packaging as an alternative 
to other substrates. As the business continues to pivot into exciting new refillable and reclosable products, 
we are optimally positioned to help our customers address challenges by providing unique, forward-thinking 
solutions that balance financial interests with our vision for a more sustainable future.
Across the business, we continue to amplify the sustainability credentials of aluminum – leveraging our 
recyclable, impact-extruded aluminum bottles as single-use or refillable and reclosable options for many 
personal care, household and beverage packaging products. We believe in a holistic approach to achieve 
significant carbon footprint reductions across our entire range of products, at a global scale.  
More than 60% of the aluminum supplied for our aluminum slugs originated from  
low-carbon sources from hydropower aluminum smelters with carbon emissions  
< 4 tCO2e/t aluminum, in 2021. In addition, we leverage ReAl® - a proprietary and 
patented alloy composition that increases the strength of the aluminum slug  
used in manufacturing- to produce cans that are up to 30% lighter (compared to 
a standard aluminum aerosol can) while retaining their strength and structure. 
Lastly, we know how important it is to increase recycling rates in order to bring 
more recycled content back into the system, and this is why Ball’s aerosol cans 
incorporate up to 50% recycled content, on a global scale.
Our aluminum aerosol business’ recent sustainability advancements showcase  
what can be achieved through material and emission reduction goal-setting, innovation  
and partnership with customers in a truly solutions-oriented manner.
9
BALL CORPORATIONWhen we look at our portfolio of businesses, we understand they are more 
alike than different, and though our aerospace team has technologies and 
a customer mix that is unique to them and different from the rest of the 
company, the opportunities for long-term, sustainable growth remain  
the same. 
As we continue to scale this business, we are focused more than ever on connecting people and 
capabilities across our organization, realizing that our immediate and future success is defined by  
our technical expertise, ability to address many of the issues faced by our nation and the planet,  
and our thought leadership for shaping foundational missions. For the year, aerospace  
segment operating earnings were up 10%, supported by solid technical and 
program execution. BALL  
AEROSPACE
Landsat Addresses Natural Resource Crisis, Human Environmental 
Damage, and Biodiversity Loss   
NASAlaunchedtheLandsat9satellitewiththeBallOperationalLand
Imagerinstrument(OLI-2). TheLandsatdatarecordprovidesaunique
long-termviewoflandcoverandlandchange.Itisusedtoidentifyand
maphowhumandevelopmentandclimatechangearealteringourworld,
fromtrackingtheadvanceofdesertification,floodingchangestoriver
networks,landscapeimpactsofadaptiveagriculture,andtheextentof
deforestationactivities.
10
In 2021, our aerospace team expanded existing 
infrastructure by opening a new state-of-the-
art Payload Development Facility in Broomfield, 
Colorado, and expanding the Aerospace 
Manufacturing Center in Westminster, Colorado.  
The team successfully launched the Ball-built OLI 
land imaging instrument on NASA’s Landsat 9 
satellite, the Imaging X-Ray Polarimetry Explorer 
(IXPE)  and the optics and mirror systems aboard 
the James Webb Space Telescope.  NASA’s 
heliophysics Global Lyman-alpha Imager of the 
Dynamic Exosphere (GLIDE) mission, and NOAA’s 
Space Weather Follow On (SWFO-L1) satellite, 
also a project for Ball, will study solar winds and 
forecast solar weather, and will launch together 
in the future. In addition, We are partnering with 
NASA’s Goddard Space Flight Center to develop the 
wide field instrument for the Nancy Grace Roman 
Space Telescope and providing the spacecraft 
and telescope for the Spectro-Photometer for the 
History of the Universe, Epoch of Reionization and 
Ices Explorer (SPHEREx). Our aerospace business plays a key and cutting-
edge role in the development of technologies that 
evaluate the health of our planet, including its 
ecosystems and weather. Many of our programs 
and missions are driven by sustainability and 
support not only for our commitments, but the 
commitments of those with whom we partner.  
We know extreme weather and failure to take action 
against climate change create 
immediate and long-term 
risks for our planet. Ball 
Aerospace remains 
at the forefront to 
develop technologies 
that lead to informed 
action. Carrying that 
momentum forward, 
the business continues 
to be positioned for growth 
throughout 2022. MethaneSAT Addresses Climate  
Action Failure and Human  
Environmental Damage  
Weareintheprocessofbuildingthe
MethaneSAT  instrumentforthe
EnvironmentalDefenseFund(EDF).
Methaneisapowerfulgreenhousegas,  
80timesmorepotentthanCO 2inthefirst
20yearsafteritsrelease;italsocontributes
toground-levelozone,resultinginmillions
ofprematuredeaths.Wearepartneredwith
EDFtodevelopasatellitemissionthatwill
provide“unimpeachabledata”onmethane
emissionsfromsourcesaroundtheworld.
Whenmethaneemissionsareaccurately
andconsistentlymeasured,countriescan
designandimplementpoliciestomitigate
methaneemissions.Thiswillreduce
exposureandhealthriskstovulnerable
populationsandprovideametricto
addressclimatechangegoalsidentified  
bytheinternationalcommunity.
TEMPO also Addresses Climate  
Action Failure and Human  
Environmental Damage  
TEMPO  willbethefirstspace-based
instrumentinNorthAmericatomonitor  
airpollutionandairquality,providing
hourlydata.Thesemeasurementswill
allowresearcherstoseehowpollution
episodesevolveoverhours,days
andweeks,andhowitinteractswith
weatherpatternsastheymoveacross
thelandscape.Partneringwiththe
EnvironmentalProtectionAgency(EPA),
theTEMPOmissionwillrevolutionizeair
qualityforecastsandemissioncontrol
strategiesandenableearlypublicwarning
ofhealthrisksduetopollutionevents.BALL AEROSPACE
11
BALL CORPORATIONTo meet the world’s sustainable development goals (SDG) and move rapidly 
towards a net zero and circular economy, governments and the private sector 
must make bold commitments coupled with detailed roadmaps and action plans. 
To make progress, the economy must undergo a significant transformation, underscored by a dramatic shift in 
capital towards businesses that are positioned to solve net zero and circular economy-related challenges. That 
is why it is more important than ever that ambitious, long-term goals serve as the critical foundation to Ball’s 
environmental, social and governance (ESG) strategy, to ensure that we position our customers to succeed in  
this transformation and be part of the solutions to these unique challenges. 
Sustainability is our business strategy — our 2030 goals address critical business challenges, while positioning  
us for long-term, accelerated growth.  Our goals are dynamic and interlinked. Our circularity strategy not only  
helps customers reach their packaging goals, but also contributes significantly to their carbon reduction targets 
and strengthens the aluminum can sheet supply chain. Our Social Impact and Product Stewardship focus 
communicates a sense of broader purpose to our existing and prospective employee base, allowing us to  
attract and retain top talent in an increasingly tight labor market. 
In alignment with our Drive for 10 strategy, our 2030 goals articulate our vision for the future and an understanding 
of Where We Are Going. These goals demonstrate that we are aligned with our customers, that we are ready to 
partner with our suppliers, and that Ball is a company where employees can and do feel a sense of purpose. We 
know that while progress may not always be linear, achievement will be driven by the strategy and investments  
we make today, which is why we are developing, implementing and adjusting our roadmaps to align. SUSTAINABILITY IS OUR 
BUSINESS STRATEGY
12
SUSTAINABILITY IS OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
Our customers are establishing ambitious, long-term goals, and are securing long-term 
partners that will support them in achieving their sustainability goals and creating new business 
opportunities as a result. With the world’s heightened attention on the role and impacts of 
packaging, our customers have expanded their supplier evaluation schemes and now consider 
various product stewardship elements in addition to price, quality and consumer experience. 
Because of its unique sustainability credentials, aluminum is best positioned to support our 
customers as they begin to transition toward a net zero and circular economy. Our product 
stewardship goals will allow Ball to make the most of opportunities by differentiating us from 
competitors and positioning aluminum cans, bottles, and cups, as well as the aerospace 
capabilities we provide, as not only the solutions of today, but also as the solutions of tomorrow.
SOCIAL IMPACT
Our employees are our greatest strength and our most important asset, not only to ensure 
the continued success of our business but to maximize our positive social impact in the 
communities where we operate. We recognize that attracting and retaining the next generation 
of top talent requires us to be more vocal about our purpose, while explaining how we balance 
economic success, environmental protection and social progress. Fostering an environment 
where employee health, safety and well-being are paramount and driving diversity and inclusion 
progress within our employee base will enhance our impact on the world.
13
BALL CORPORATIONSTRATEGY & 2030 SUSTAINABILITY GOALS*
14
STRATEGY & 2030 SUSTAINABILITY GOALS*
 *Allgoalsaretobecompletedby2030,unlessotherwisestated.
 **During2022,BallCorporationwillbereviewingitsdiversityandinclusiondatareportingmethodologytoenableglobalaggregationaswellasrecentorganizational
changes,however,ourglobalambitionandalignmenttoincreasethediversemixofourworkforcewillremainunchanged.**
15
BALL CORPORATIONREAL 
CIRCULARITY
Real circularity involves the continuous recovery and reuse of materials, 
with nothing lost during the full circle. It is not enough for products to be 
recyclable, they need to be physically recycled in the real world.
Aluminum can be infinitely recycled without any loss of quality. The recycling 
yields for aluminum cans are extraordinarily high (>95%), its compaction ratio 
is superior to other materials (12:1 for cans), and it retains high economic 
value ($2,187 per metric ton of used beverage cans in the United States in 
mid-February 2022, 3.5 times more than PET and 82 times more than amber 
glass) – thereby demonstrating a preferred example of a packaging material 
that is well-suited for real circularity. 
HOW MUCH MATERIAL IS LOST?
This has been underlined by new research from the International Aluminum Institute, 
which compared the circularity of aluminum, glass and plastic beverage packaging across Brazil,  
China, Europe and the United States (see graphic on the next page). The research indicates that  
aluminum is outperforming other materials at all stages of the waste management system, and that the 
aluminum can ‘is the best placed material to support a full circular economy,’ with current recycling rates in  
those regions at 71% vs. 34% for glass bottles and 40% for PET bottles.  
As the world’s largest manufacturer of aluminum packaging, these findings support our sustainability and 
business strategy and afford us with a distinct advantage in relation to new and forthcoming regulations  
that aim to increase the circularity of packaging. It also allows us to support our customers with their efforts  
16
Every Can Counts encourages  
‘on the go’ can recycling in  
19 countries across Europe 
and in Brazil. REAL CIRCULARITY
to achieve their individual circularity and climate 
goals, as recycled aluminum uses 95% less energy 
compared with virgin material.
90% RECYCLING RATE, 85% RECYCLED CONTENT
As part of our 2030 goals, we are committed to 
achieving 85% average recycled content (up from 
61% in 2020) in the aluminum we use to produce 
billions of beverage cans, bottles and cups each 
year. To facilitate our progression towards circularity 
– what we call Our Vision Towards a Perfect Circle – 
we will need more cans to be collected with a high percentage of those cans being recycled back into 
can sheet.  
We are collaborating with industry partners, policy 
makers, NGOs and other stakeholders to increase 
global recycling rates for aluminum beverage cans, 
bottles and cups to 90% by 2030 from their current 
level of 69%. We are in the process of drawing up 
a detailed low carbon roadmap for the aluminum 
beverage packaging sector that will outline how we 
can achieve a 90% recycling rate through a broad 
portfolio of measures, including support for modern, convenient, efficient and cost-effective deposit 
return systems (DRS).
DEPOSIT RETURN SYSTEMS
During 2021, we became very vocal in our support 
of the introduction of a potential nationwide DRS in 
the United States, something that has not previously 
been discussed or considered at the federal level. 
DRS have been introduced recently in Slovakia and 
Latvia, and are being discussed in many countries 
across the European Union (EU) as the fastest way 
to achieve the EU’s 90% plastic bottle collection rate 
17
BALL CORPORATIONgoal before 2030. In the UK, DRS is expected to be 
in operation by mid-2023 in Scotland, and across  
the rest of the country soon thereafter. In the  
United States we are working with Reloop and  
other partners on modernizing and updating  
existing DRS in several states in the Northeast 
to ensure more packaging is captured and that 
sustainable funding mechanisms are put in place. 
All existing DRS are based on an old model of 
consumers lining up in shops with large bags of 
beverage packaging to redeem deposits from reverse vending machines. We believe that some 
innovations will make redeeming deposits more 
convenient for consumers – for example by installing 
reverse vending machines which can handle a bag 
with up to 100 containers at once. We are also 
working on pilot initiatives related to “smart DRS” 
which, with serialized coding for each individual 
packaging item, could be a game changer, bringing 
smart data and consumer convenience advantages.
With the global trend for DRS and more producer 
responsibility legislation, we expect more aluminum cans and bottles to be collected, sorted and 
recycled back into can sheet. That is why we are 
working with partners to determine how additional 
re-melting and rolling capacity can be added over 
the next few years to ensure can sheet supply 
aligns with demand and that we are meeting 
stakeholders’ sustainability expectations.
Our customers want more recycled content, and 
DRS policies will increasingly include a first right  
of refusal to ensure that cans are recycled back  
into cans and bottles. In addition, we are seeing 
some promising new sorting and recycling 
technologies – such as alloy separation and 
purification technologies for post-consumer scraps 
– that may transform parts of our value chain and 
enable even more product-to-product recycling.
TRACKING PLASTIC POLLUTION IN OUR OCEANS
Ball Aerospace was recently selected by NASA 
to participate in new technology to find ocean 
plastic. FLuorescence Ocean Ranging Observations  
(FLORO)  will explore the effectiveness of 
fluorescent lidar, combined with other techniques, 
to identify and track marine debris and plastic. 
Building on Ball’s heritage in lidar research and our 
passion for addressing environmental challenges, 
the FLORO project engages our team with experts 
from Woods Hole, NOAA and the Ocean Voyages 
Institute to address a critical global problem.REAL CIRCULARITY
18
CLIMATE LEADERSHIP
Reducing GHG emissions, both in our own operations and across our value 
chain, minimizes our packaging’s carbon footprint and positions aluminum as 
a low-carbon, circular packaging of choice. Subsequently, this provides Ball 
with a competitive advantage by allowing us to seize new opportunities, while 
reducing financial and business risks associated with the transition to a low 
carbon economy.
In 2021, calls for action on climate intensified as the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change issued a Code 
Red warning for humanity and world leaders gathered at COP26 in Scotland to discuss a path towards Net Zero.
As a result, many of our customers, suppliers and retailers made bold climate pledges to demonstrate their 
commitments to achieving Net Zero by 2050 or earlier.  To support them, and to maximize the opportunity for 
aluminum packaging, Ball reaffirmed its commitment during 2021 to a 1.5 degree Celsius aligned 2030 science-
based target.  We also extended our pledge by stating that we aim to achieve Net Zero carbon emissions 
across our value chain before 2050.
Our 2030 targets, approved by the Science Based Target Initiative , represent our pledge to reduce absolute 
GHG emissions from our own operations (Scope 1 and 2) by 55% against a 2017 baseline, and 
absolute emissions from our value chain (Scope 3) by 16%. Our Net Zero pledge is an 
important signal not just to our customers and suppliers, but as an internal message 
acknowledging that 2030 goals are an intermediate step on our journey towards  
Net Zero.
We have begun to develop a detailed roadmap to Net Zero that will help us optimize 
carbon reduction and capital allocation. The roadmap will detail timelines for when  
we expect new technologies, innovations and legislation to come to fruition at scale, 
allowing us to achieve deep decarbonization and neutralization of remaining  
residual emissions.
19
BALL CORPORATIONGHG EMISSIONS FROM OUR OPERATIONS
The two key ways to achieve a 55% absolute 
reduction in GHG emissions from our own 
operations – despite the significant growth we 
foresee for Ball during this decade – will be to move 
to 100% renewable electricity and to improve energy 
efficiency by 30% across our manufacturing plants.
We were able to make great strides on renewable 
energy during 2021, with 254 megawatts of new 
wind energy capacity brought online in the United 
States, Sweden and Spain through three virtual 
power purchase agreements that were signed 
in 2019 and 2020. With the electricity produced 
from these projects, plus additional guarantees 
of origin purchased and retired in Europe, Ball sourced 44% of its global electricity demand in 
2021 from renewables. These efforts allowed us to 
reduce approximately 390,392 metric tons of GHG 
emissions year-over-year.
While our existing plants implemented a number of 
energy efficiency projects during 2021, the energy 
efficiency of our beverage can manufacturing 
remained flat year over year. This was driven by 
the opening of four new plants and multiple line 
additions that come with lower efficiencies during 
the first few months of operation. Once these new 
state-of-the-art plants and line additions achieve 
anticipated levels of manufacturing performance, 
we expect them to contribute significantly to our 
energy efficiency goals.Despite significant volume growth of 11% in  
our global beverage business – and a consequent 
absolute growth in energy use across Ball – we 
increased absolute scope 1 GHG emissions by  
6% and decreased absolute scope 2 GHG  
emissions by 32% from our own operations year  
over year during 2021, driven largely by increases  
in renewable electricity use.  
GHG EMISSIONS FROM OUR VALUE CHAIN
In 2021, we began to articulate our vision to achieve 
a global recycling rate of 90% for beverage cans, 
bottles and cups, and an average 85% recycled 
content in those products (see page 17). These 
two levers, combined with additional GHG emission 
reduction successes by the primary aluminum 2021
+19%
SCOPE 3 
EMISSIONS2021
-32%
SCOPE 2  
EMISSIONS2021
+6%
SCOPE 1  
EMISSIONSCLIMATE LEADERSHIP
20
CLIMATE LEADERSHIP
industry, will contribute to our 16% reduction target 
in our absolute Scope 3 GHG emissions.
Changes to recycling infrastructure and legislation 
take time, and we do not expect recycling rates and 
recycled content for our products to increase in a 
linear way during this decade. Instead, legislation 
in areas such as deposit return schemes will be 
implemented in various markets from 2024 on  
and additional remelting capacity may come  
online soon thereafter.
Our Scope 3 emissions increased by 19% year-over-
year in 2021. This was driven by the production 
of almost 10 billion more cans compared to the 
previous year. Additionally, we attribute the 
increase to improvements in our suppliers’ GHG 
accounting, a higher level of accuracy around actual recycled content in the can sheet we purchase, and 
increased deployment of new capital goods for new 
beverage can plants and manufacturing lines.
In 2021, we participated in the Aluminium for 
Climate initiative, part of the Mission Possible 
Partnership, which is co-led by the World Economic 
Forum.  This initiative is developing Net Zero 
pathways for the sector in direct collaboration with 
the industry. In addition to transitioning to fossil 
free energy sources, an additional way of helping 
decarbonize direct emissions resulting from primary 
aluminum production is through the use of inert 
anode technology for aluminum smelting. Currently, 
this technology is not commercially available.  
In 2021, we set up a collaboration with a primary 
aluminum producer to use several tons of aluminum 
made with inert anode technology from an industrial pilot to produce aerosol cans with a reduced  
carbon footprint.
PRODUCT CARBON FOOTPRINT
Building on the comparative beverage packaging  
life cycle assessment (LCA) we released in 2019 ,  
we are planning to finalize two additional peer-
reviewed LCAs during 2022, one for cans and 
competing substrates in South America and  
one for India. In addition, we continue to perform  
internal LCA modeling to assess the impact of 
various projects on the carbon footprint of our  
cans (see graph). This demonstrates that we are  
the partner of choice to deliver on customer’s 
carbon reduction goals.
THE AEROSPACE OPPORTUNITY
Ball Aerospace is advancing climate science and 
helping to protect life on Earth by designing and 
building space-based air pollution monitoring, land 
imaging and operational weather instruments and 
spacecrafts. Ball-built instruments, such as TEMPO, 
GMI and CALIPSO, gather extremely accurate 
data on pollution, precipitation and the impact that 
clouds and aerosols have on the Earth’s climate.
Climate-related data and insights, and the  
hardware used to gather them, are increasingly 
critical to gaining a better understanding of  
climate change. Overall, they assist with research 
that aims to better understand how we can 
decarbonize quickly, while pointing to ways in  
which we can become more resilient in the face  
of a changing climate (see pages 10-11).
21
BALL CORPORATIONRESPONSIBLE 
SOURCING
With increasing demand for aluminum and other products around the world, we 
remain focused on sustaining a consistent supply, while mitigating associated 
environmental, social and governance (ESG) impacts. 
To accomplish this, we partner directly with our suppliers and leverage our strategic sourcing framework as a 
foundational guide, which incorporates sustainability criteria. We also work alongside our suppliers in various 
cross-industry platforms that drive innovative sustainability solutions such as the World Economic Forum’s 
Mission Possible Partnership. 
More than 10,000 companies worldwide supply goods and services to Ball, and our top 100 suppliers account 
for the majority of our spend, primarily in two categories: aluminum and coatings. The supply chains for these 
categories are complex, global and diverse. During 2021, we increased our annual spend with minority- and 
women-owned business (MWBE) suppliers in the United States by 30%.
Many of our strategic suppliers have well-established sustainability programs and 
good track records of improved ESG performance. We maintain continuous 
dialogue with them as we collaborate to reduce potentially negative impacts  
and achieve common goals pertaining to circularity, climate, resource efficiency, 
material health, diversity and inclusion, and other relevant sustainability areas.
In 2021, we held our first Global Supplier Forum, which provided opportunities for 
our executive leaders to address over 80 key suppliers and engage in discussions 
pertaining to the need to prioritize sustainability in order to achieve long-term 
growth in our packaging businesses.
22
ALUMINUM
The most significant ESG impacts across our value 
chain occur in aluminum production. Mining of 
bauxite, for example, is associated with concerns 
for safety, biodiversity and human rights, while 
smelting, casting and rolling can come with 
significant energy consumption and GHG emissions. 
One important way to reduce these impacts is to 
maximize the use of recycled aluminum, which is 
why we launched our Vision for a Perfect Circle in 
2021 and established a goal to achieve an average 
85% recycled content by 2030 (see page 17).
Ball has established a goal of sourcing 100% of our 
aluminum needs from certified sustainable sources 
by 2030, in particular through certification with 
the Aluminum Stewardship Initiative  (ASI). 
While our circularity strategy helps drive the 
sustained availability of aluminum in our supply 
chain, ASI certification will enable Ball to create 
a stronger and more resilient supply chain, 
with both initiatives strengthening our roadmap 
to achieving carbon reduction targets. ASI 
certification provides important external verification 
of our commitment to continuous improvement 
on responsible sourcing and our sustainability 
leadership in the industry.
In November 2021, we received certification to the 
ASI Performance (PS) and Chain of Custody (CoC) 
standards for our 13 beverage packaging South 
America plants, as well as our regional office in Brazil.  The certification designates Ball as the 
first aluminum packaging company in South America 
to achieve both certifications and builds upon the 
success of our 22 manufacturing plants in Europe, 
Middle East and Africa (EMEA) that achieved both 
certifications in 2020. 
In early 2022, our two beverage can plants in India 
also received both certifications , meaning that 
by then 52% of Ball’s packaging plants were ASI 
certified. We expect all remaining plants to become 
certified by year-end 2022.
To mark the achievement of ASI certification 
in South America, we commissioned a special 
edition celebration can designed 
by Brazilian artist Jaqueline 
Sampin (pictured left). The 
colorful can has a QR code 
that leads to a webpage 
listing the many benefits ASI 
has for brands and how they 
can further their responsible 
purchasing programs by partnering 
with Ball to bring ASI-certified cans to market.
The ASI Performance Standard is a measure of how 
much effort Ball is investing across its plants to 
assess, manage and disclose its ESG impacts, with 
a focus on life cycle thinking, recycling, GHG, health 
and safety and human rights. The CoC Standard 
establishes requirements for close monitoring of material that is produced and processed through 
the value chain, from mining and re-melting to 
casting, rolling, can manufacturing and filling.
We are working with all of Ball’s aluminum suppliers 
to achieve ASI certification for their operations, as 
well as their upstream supply partners. At the end  
of 2021, 100% of Ball’s supplier rolling mills around 
the world were members of ASI, 71% of our procured 
metal volumes came from mills with Performance 
Standard certification, and 43% from mills that had 
achieved both PS and CoC certification.
Only when our manufacturing plants achieve both 
forms of ASI-certification, can they start to receive 
and account for ASI-certified metal. 
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING
23
BALL CORPORATIONWe strive to accelerate our global growth while at the same time increasing  
our resource efficiency by focusing on aluminum, energy and water use.  
By increasing efficiencies across over 70 facilities, 13 major aerospace locations 
and various office locations, we reduced the environmental footprint of our 
products in 2021.
LIGHTWEIGHTING
Finding new ways to further reduce the weight of our products, while preserving quality and the consumer 
experience, decreases our need for aluminum and lowers the carbon footprint of our packaging, thereby allowing 
our business, customers and retailers to meet ambitious carbon reduction goals. Even small weight optimizations 
save significant amounts of metal, energy and emissions when multiplied by the billions of containers that Ball 
produces each year.
Our global portfolio of STARcans is setting new standards for weight optimization.  Compared to other beverage 
cans of the same size, it reduces weight by 3% to 8%. In 2021, we announced a new commitment to use lightweight 
STARcan designs in 80% of our global beverage can production by 2030. By the end of 2021, STARcans accounted 
for 23% of the global volume of aluminum beverage cans we produced, saving 6,100 metric tons of aluminum during 
the year, equivalent to reducing approximately 27,760 metric tons of GHG emissions.
In addition, Ball’s aerosol packaging business has developed a new iteration of ReAl®, a lightweight alternative to 
standard aluminum slugs used in aerosol can manufacturing. This version, which went into commercial production in 
2021, permits up to a 30% lighter container to be produced, compared to a standard impact extruded can. Globally, 
our aerosol division has now converted 45% of its production to lightweight ReAl® cans, saving 1,990 metric tons of 
aluminum throughout the year, which equates to reducing approximately 16,400 metric tons of GHG emissions.RESOURCE 
EFFICIENCY
24
ENERGY
We are committed to reducing the amount of  
energy required to produce each beverage can 
in our manufacturing plants by 30% during this 
decade. This primarily means cutting back on our 
use of electricity and natural gas. Since our Global 
Beverage Packaging business accounts for most  
 of our energy consumption – 89% of our total of  
4.8 million megawatt hours in 2021 – much of our 
efforts are focused in this business. Given we 
have plans in place to eliminate all GHG emissions 
associated with electricity by 2030 through the use 
of 100% renewable electricity, our attention is now 
on reducing the use of natural gas.  
To further accelerate our progress, in 2021 we 
continued to invest in energy monitoring across 
our global network of beverage can manufacturing 
plants. In order for Ball to harness the power of this 
data, we began implementing a software solution 
with Artificial Intelligence (AI) to make predictive, 
accurate, and actionable decisions to optimize our 
roadmap on reducing energy and water use, carbon 
emissions and utility costs. This system will not only 
provide our plant operators with real-time insights 
into improving energy efficiency on a day-to-day 
basis, but will allow our regional engineering and 
operations teams to optimize future investments 
while meeting our sustainability goals.
In 2021 we also began exploring the potential for 
electrification of ovens used in our can making 
process that traditionally use natural gas – including by working with key suppliers to begin testing 
electric heating options at our innovation center in 
Colorado. Through electrification of thermal energy 
loads and the use of renewable electricity, there is 
great potential to reduce fossil fuel use and Scope 1 
GHG emissions.
WATER
We aim to use water responsibly 
by reducing demand, increasing 
reuse in our manufacturing 
processes and maintaining 
its quality. We leverage 
wastewater treatment 
technologies to ensure our 
operations do not adversely 
affect water quality near our plants. 
Across the globe, we are working to 
minimize water use and to maintain water quality 
by re-evaluating the design of our can washers, 
reusing water, training employees and implementing 
water-saving and treatment technologies.  
At Ball, we recognize that climate change and 
increased demand for water resources may impact 
the availability of water in the future. Last year, 
we conducted in-depth, long-term hydrogeologic 
analyses on the availability of water resources for 
several manufacturing plants in the southwestern 
United States. These studies will inform our strategy 
for mitigating future water risk and optimizing 
investment in water recycling and reuse technology.To build on our equipment level water monitoring 
and AI driven insights, in 2021 we began developing 
a roadmap for water management for our beverage 
packaging manufacturing plants, which includes 
guidance on water reduction, water recycling and 
local watershed engagement in areas of high water 
stress. We will pilot this management plan in 2022 
at one of our high-risk water sites prior to 
rolling it out to the global network.
Many Ball plants around the world are 
now being impacted by more stringent 
contaminant discharge limits. Most 
existing wastewater treatment facilities 
do not address biochemical oxygen 
demand (BOD), so as BOD discharge 
limits decrease, Ball has decided to pilot 
new membrane and fixed bed reactor systems 
to enhance wastewater clean-up. Trials were 
conducted in our Rome, Georgia, and Glendale, 
Arizona, plants in 2021. Lessons learned through 
these trials will allow us to meet lower discharge 
limits at various plants and to improve our ability  
to partially recycle wastewater.
In addition, Ball is partnering with the Colorado 
School of Mines on testing a new membrane 
biological reactor system in one of our plants. This 
can be used to clean up and reuse wastewater from 
rinsers. While the rinsing stage is one of the most 
water-intensive stages in can manufacturing, it also 
presents the best opportunity to incorporate reused 
or recycled water.RESOURCE EFFICIENCY
25
BALL CORPORATIONMATERIAL HEALTH
Identifying and eliminating any 
materials of concern that touch  
our products during manufacturing 
ensures that Ball is meeting  
end-consumer, customer and 
retailer expectations. 
By working proactively with our suppliers and 
improving the material health of our products,  
we keep consumers safe and mitigate risks by 
staying ahead of regulatory requirements.
As part of our commitment to material health, we 
remain focused on our global supply of coatings. 
Historically, these coatings have included trace 
amounts of bisphenol A (BPA). Acting in response 
to stakeholder feedback, we collaborated with our 
suppliers to introduce a new generation of coatings 
that contain no intentionally added BPA – so called 
BPA-NI coatings. By the end of 2021, we had a 
significant portion of our business, especially in 
Europe and North and Central America, converted 
to these new coatings, and we aim to phase out 
the original coating entirely from our beverage can 
production worldwide by the middle of the decade.
This journey requires ongoing collaboration with 
our customers. Our teams have communicated 
the importance of converting to new coatings and they have articulated how this will protect 
our customer’s businesses and enhance the 
sustainability credentials of their product  
portfolio. Customers also need to test and  
qualify cans with the new coatings. 
CRADLE TO CRADLE MATERIAL  
HEALTH CERTIFICATION
As part of our broader vision to create more 
transparency and confidence in the aluminum 
beverage can, we are seeking Cradle to Cradle 
Material Health certification for all of the coatings, 
inks and compounds we use. This certification, 
which is an independent, credible way of assessing 
and verifying a company’s work towards safer 
product chemistry, requires product ingredients 
to be inventoried throughout the supply chain, 
while also being evaluated for impacts on human 
and environmental health. Once evaluated by an 
accredited assessment body and approved 
by the Cradle to Cradle Products 
Innovation Institute, a product can be 
assigned a Material Health Certificate 
at an achievement level of basic, 
bronze, silver, gold or platinum.
By the end of 2021, 100% of the 
compounds we used around the world, 
along with 86% of our ink systems,  63% of internal coatings, and 4% of external 
coatings, had received a Material Health Certificate. 
61% of the products that were certified by the 
end of 2021 achieved silver level or better. The 
next generation internal coating, which we are 
using to replace coatings with intentionally added 
BPA, achieves Cradle to Cradle Material Health 
certification at the platinum level. We are aiming for 
100% of supplied coatings, inks and compounds to 
achieve certification at silver level or better by the 
end of 2030. 
In February 2022, the Ball Aluminum Cup received 
bronze level certification from the Cradle to  
Cradle Products Innovation Institute, which 
verifies the safety, circularity and responsibility 
of our product . As part of this certification, 
the cup and our cup manufacturing plant in 
Rome, Georgia, were assessed against five 
categories including: material health, 
product circularity, clean air 
and climate protection, water 
and soil stewardship, and 
social fairness. Per our 2030 
Sustainability Goals,  we aim 
to achieve a gold rating in the 
next certification cycle.
26
HEALTH, SAFETY & WELL-BEING
The health, safety and well-being 
of all employees is a top priority 
at Ball and an integral part of our 
commitment to social sustainability.
We believe this focus supports a workplace  
culture where our people thrive and have the  
ability to contribute to our collective success  
in meaningful ways.
HEALTH AND SAFETY 
In 2021, we deployed an environmental, health  
and safety management information tool across 
Ball’s packaging businesses. In addition to providing 
a common framework for our businesses and 
regions, this allowed for more cohesive data 
collection and increased transparency throughout 
the businesses.
Safety remained a top focus as we hired new 
employees to support our accelerated growth, 
experienced Covid-19 related absences and saw 
an increase in employee overtime hours. Even so, 
globally, Ball experienced an increase in safety 
incidents during 2021. In response to the uptick in 
incidents, Ball implemented measures to further prioritize and invest in safety training for new 
hires, as well as successful behavior-based safety 
programs, machine guarding, risk assessments and 
other regular and ongoing trainings. 
Ball continues to focus on an ambitious 2030  
goal of reducing the Total Recordable Incident  
Rate by 25% from a 2020 baseline.
EMPLOYEE WELL-BEING
We understand that employees encounter hardships 
that extend beyond physical concerns. Therefore, 
we offer an Employee Assistance Program (EAP), 
to provide all 24,300 employees and members of 
their households with access to resources and 
counselors essential for navigating life’s changes 
and challenges. 
EAP services are confidential and are automatically 
provided at no cost to employees. These services 
include mental health counseling, resources to 
help prepare for unexpected natural disasters and 
other services such financial consultations, legal 
counseling and child care planning. As we look 
ahead, employee health, safety and well-being will 
remain a priority and an important and foundational 
component to our culture and growth strategy.  
27
BALL CORPORATIONBall’s success is a testament to our 
culture of belonging, which creates 
opportunities for our people to be 
their authentic selves and contribute 
to our collective success in unique 
and impactful ways.
We welcome different perspectives and encourage 
robust dialogue to foster diverse and innovative 
thinking. Our Diversity & Inclusion function, which 
reports directly to the CEO, and our 17 employee-
led Network and Interest groups champion our 
inclusive workplace culture.
Our long-term ambition is to increase the 
representation of underrepresented groups in our 
workforce, and to provide all employees with equal 
opportunities for career development. Ultimately, 
these actions will allow us to meet the demands 
of the future by ensuring we have diverse talent 
capable of innovative, solutions-oriented thinking.
All of our business and regional teams are working 
toward 2025 diversity and inclusion goals focused 
on female and ethnic minority (non-white) employee 
representation, with emphasis on plant production 
and leadership roles. These goals are intentionally DIVERSITY & INCLUSION
planned for short-term timeframes since we  
are committed to refining them as we make  
ongoing progress.
For people leaders, we created guidelines for 
inclusive recruiting and developed leadership 
expectations. During 2021, we re-examined our 
coaching and training programs, and adopted best 
practices for removing unconscious bias from  
our internal processes. We also included global 
diversity and inclusion managers on the planning 
teams that led our performance management 
training programs. Additionally, many of our 
employees have participated in unconscious bias 
and inclusivity trainings during the past six years.
To complement these efforts, we launched our 
global ‘Ball For All’ storytelling campaign, which 
fosters empathy and understanding by giving our 
people a platform to share their personal stories  
and experiences with others.
Other notable mentions include the establishment 
of an Aerospace Diversity Equity Inclusion strategic 
council, which has a goal of diversifying our 
aerospace workforce. In North America, Ball was 
again designated one of the “Best Places to Work 
for LGBTQ+ Equality” and labeled as an employer  of choice for the LGBTQ+ workforce, according to 
the Human Rights Campaign’s annual Corporate 
Equality Index. Finally, to support our commitment 
to greater transparency and accountability, we 
published consolidated Equal Employment 
Opportunity Component 1 (EEO-1) reports for  
our U.S. workforce as a way to showcase the 
evolving diversity of our workplaces .
For further information on D&I, check out this link .AfricanDiasporaBall
NetworkRecruiting
NewMembersDenverPride
Network
Celebration
28
In response to long-term growth 
plans and attrition largely due to 
retirements, we continued to hire 
new employees globally during 2021.
A skilled workforce is critically important to the 
success of our business and we pay great attention 
to the selection, development, retention and 
engagement of employees in conjunction with our 
commitment to providing opportunities for growth.
Employee development plays a crucial role in 
achieving our commitment to greater workforce 
diversity, and in creating a more inclusive 
environment (see page 28). Ball supports the 
development of leaders in a variety of ways, 
including in-role training, assessments, learning 
programs and coaching. We issued monthly 
Leadership Spotlight communications and hosted 
Leader Cafes to help our people leaders grow and 
ultimately help their employees grow as well.
Recognizing that identifying and developing talent 
deeper in the organization will allow us to reach 
a more diverse population and position us for 
the future, we launched manager assessments 
in 2021. Because of the importance of leaders 
at Ball, we wanted to emphasize the concept 
of “cultivating the best people” as outlined in our TALENT DEVELOPMENT
Drive for 10 People and Culture focus.  Investing 
in these assessments at the manager level helps us 
elevate the development of our people leaders and 
strengthen our succession plans. 
In 2021, we expanded our engineering and 
operations leadership development programs to 
be fully global, enabling earlier in career talent 
to become industry leaders. Through on-the-
job projects and mentoring, students and recent 
graduates receive real-life work training and 
experience that expose them to Ball’s business and 
potential career opportunities. Structured to also 
increase intake of diverse candidates, this program 
plays a key role in strengthening our talent pipeline. 
To date, we have more than 50 individuals globally 
who have participated.
During the year, to help our broader employee 
population deepen their skills and knowledge to 
grow in their careers, we introduced a variety of 
learning resources, including Introduction to Ball 
and Introduction to Sustainability e-learning courses, 
ongoing access to more than 17,000 LinkedIn 
Learning courses and monthly learning challenges. 
Through our global human capital management 
platform, employees had the opportunity to work in 
partnership with their leaders to pursue individual 
development goals and plans. 
29
BALL CORPORATIONWe remain committed to creating a 
work environment where employees 
are seen, heard and empowered to 
contribute to our collective success. 
We accomplish this by listening to our people and 
capturing their views in employee engagement 
surveys. To measure employee engagement more 
efficiently, in 2021 we created a new employee 
listening strategy. In partnership with a third-party 
human resources company, we advanced our 
efforts by creating targeted continuous listening 
surveys deployed throughout the year. This allows 
us to gather real-time feedback on employee 
sentiment, with a particular focus on capturing 
input on events happening across the world. 
Further information about Ball’s listening strategy 
can be found here:  
To help us with our goal of ensuring Ball’s values 
are fully embraced by all employees, in 2021 
we adopted a fresh approach to the way new 
employees are welcomed into the company.
Our onboarding program now includes a robust 
set of materials and resources such as an intranet 
page specifically for new hires, updated orientation 
materials and presentations, and new e-learning EMPLOYEE EXPERIENCE
content. We posted stories on Facebook , Instagram 
and LinkedIn  showcasing the experiences of 
employees from different regions and businesses, 
all with the goal of highlighting what it means to 
work at Ball. 
During September 2021, Ball celebrated its 9th 
annual Who We Are Month, a month dedicated  
to our People, Culture and Drive for 10 vision. 
Annually, we gather our employees from around 
the world to participate in various events – in 
person and virtually – to come together and  
engage with their colleagues, hear from leaders and learn about the different campaigns and 
innovations happening across our organization.
Each week of the month, employees tuned in to a Ball Engage / Drive for 10 Talk featuring employees 
and leaders discussing key company initiatives 
such as: sustainability, diversity and inclusion, 
our company culture, our passion for 
innovation and Ball’s constant focus  
on our customers.
At Ball, our people play an important part 
in crafting the employee experience and 
we believe that our workplaces continue  
to evolve as we learn and grow together.
30
COMMUNITY
Ball is committed to making a 
positive impact in the communities 
where our people live and work.
As an organization, and in partnership with The Ball 
Foundation, as well as through employee giving and 
volunteerism, we support organizations, programs 
and civic initiatives that advance sustainable 
livelihoods and community resilience. 
In 2021, we widened the scope of our community 
efforts through the global expansion of our 
employee giving platform. As a result, our entire employee population can now record volunteer 
hours and access millions of causes to support 
more than 200 countries. Our goal is to enable  
100% of our employees to give and volunteer, 
leading to a 35% participation rate by 2025.
With the Covid-19 pandemic impacting our 
communities around the world, Ball continued 
applying its commitment of $5 million in global 
support through 2021. In South America, we 
reached 50 million people through our Covid-19 
relief efforts. In Belgrade, Serbia, we provided daily 
meals to dozens of children who were experiencing 
homelessness as a result of the pandemic. In 
India, our team provided aerosol packaging for hand sanitizer products. More information on Ball’s 
Covid-19 relief efforts can be found here: 
Disaster relief has long been a key element of 
our community involvement. In 2021, devastating 
wildfires in our home state of Colorado destroyed 
more than 1,000 homes. Many Ball employees 
and their families were directly and 
indirectly impacted. In January 2022,  
we responded with a $1 million donation 
to the Boulder County Wildfire Fund. In 
addition, The Ball Foundation is matching 
employee donations to the fund. 
We continue to increase our commitment 
to recycling education through strategic 
partnerships. In 2021, we expanded 
our reach through two new agreements 
in the United States – Inner-City Arts’ Youth 
Enterprisers, in which five artists came together to 
raise awareness about the efficacy of aluminum 
as a recyclable material through art, and with 
Kroenke Sports & Entertainment to support its Green 
Assists program. These partnerships allow us to 
increase recycling awareness within the sports and 
entertainment space. 
Learn more about our community work focused on 
disaster relief, recycling and STEM education here: 
31
BALL CORPORATION(a)Includesbusinessconsolidationandotheractivitiesandotheritemsaffectingcomparabilitybetweenyears.Additionaldetailsregardingthe2021,2020,2019and2018itemsareavailableinNote6,andthe2017itemsareavailableinNote5,totheconsolidatedfinancialstatementswithinItem
8oftheAnnualReportonForm10-K.(b)Non-U.S.GAAPmeasuresshouldnotbeconsideredinisolationandshouldnotbeconsideredsuperiorto,or asubstitutefor,financialmeasures calculatedinaccordancewithU.S.GAAP.Further discussionofnon-U.S.GAAP financialmeasuresisavailable
inItem7oftheAnnualReportonForm10-KunderManagementPerformanceMeasurementsandOtherLiquidityMeasures andtheNon-GAAP Measures sectionofBall’swebsite.(c)Amountsin2017havebeenretrospectivelyadjustedtoreflecttheadoptionofnewaccountingguidancethatwas
effectiveJanuary1,2018.(d)Netoperatingearningsaftertaxlessacapitalchargeof9%after-taxonaverage investedcapitalemployed.(e)Changeinstockpriceplusdividendspaid,assumingreinvestmentofalldividendspaid. Informationfor thiscalculationisincludedintheshareholderreturn
performancechartintheProxy.BALL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES2021 FIVE-YEAR REVIEW OF FINANCIAL DATA  
 2021  2020 2019 2018 2017  
Net Sales  $ 13,811  $ 11,781 $ 11,474 $ 11,635 $ 10,983
Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) $ 1,291  $ 1,003 $ 932 $ 935 $ 802
Total interest expense (270	) (316 ) (324 ) (302 ) (288 )
 Earnings before taxes (a) $ 1,008  $ 687 $ 608 $ 633 $ 514
Net earnings attributable to Ball Corporation (a) $	 878  $ 585 $ 566 $ 454 $ 374
Basic earnings per share (a) $ 2.69 $ 1.79 $ 1.71 $ 1.32 $ 1.07
Weighted average common shares outstanding (000s)  325,989  326,260  331,102 344,796  350,269
Diluted earnings per share (a) $ 2.65  $ 1.76 $ 1.66 $ 1.29 $ 1.05
Diluted weighted average common shares outstanding (000s)  331,615 332,815  340,121 352,321 356,985
Total assets $	 19,714  $ 18,252 $ 17,360 $ 16,554 $ 17,169
Total interest bearing debt and finance lease obligations $	 7,779  $ 7,800 $ 7,817 $ 6,729 $ 6,971
Cash dividends per share $	 0.70  0.60 0.55 0.40 0.365
Total cash provided by operating activities (c) $	 1,760  1,432 1,548 1,566  1,478
Selected Financial Data
Comparable operating earnings (b) $ 1,585  $ 1,415 $ 1,331 $ 1,290 $ 1,220
Comparable net earnings (b) $	 1,157  987 861 775 728
Diluted earnings per share (comparable basis) (b) $	 3.49  2.97 2.53 2.20 2.04
EVA dollars (d) $ 290  271  217 242 240
Total annual return to common shareholders (e) 4.1	%  45.2  % 41.8 %  22.7 %  1.8 %
1Alldata,includingnormalizeddatabybusinessunitcanbefoundonline,withadescriptionofBall’snormalizationapproachatwww.ball.com/sustainability/sustainability-reporting.2Naturalgas,gasoline,propane,diesel,biogas,jet fuel3Electricity,steam4RenewableenergyfallswithinIndirect
energy.5DirectGHGemissionsfromsourcesownedorcontrolledbyBallprimarilyfromnaturalgas,propaneandfugitiveemissionsfromcoatingsusedonsite6IndirectGHGemissionsfromthegenerationofelectricityandsteamgeneratedoffsiteandpurchasedbyBall. TheScope2emissions
reportedherearemarket-based,ourScope2location-basedemissionscanbefoundonline7IndirectGHGemissionsfromvaluechainsourcesnotownedor directlycontrolledbyBall.IndirectGHGemissioncategoriesincludethefollowing:PurchasedGoods&Services,CapitalGoods,Fuel-&
Energy-RelatedActivities,UpstreamTransportation&Distribution,WasteGeneration,BusinessTravel,EmployeeCommuting,DownstreamTransportation&Distribution,ProcessingofSoldProducts,andInvestments. 8CO 2emissionsfrombiogenicsourcesareaccountedfor asaseparateGHG
inventory,notincludedinScope1,2,or3.9Metalmanufacturingscrapnotincluded,allofwhichissentback tooursuppliersandremelted.10Numbershavebeenrounded.11Withour globaldiversityandinclusioneffortsfurther maturing,weexpecttoreportother D&Imetricsthangender andage
inthefuture.12Notdisclosedemployeeschosenottoidentifyasmaleorfemale.13Includedin“Employeeturnover”arevoluntarydeparturesandthoseduetodismissal,retirementandpassingofBallemployees,excludingconsultants,contingentandtemporaryworkers.Balltransitionedtoanew
globalHRsystemin2021,whichallowsidentificationofBallemployeesseparatefromconsultants,contingentandtemporaryworkers.Therefore,previousyear’sturnoverdataarenotincluded.($ in millions, except per share amounts)
The following footnotes are for the data provided on pages 32 and 33
32
UNIT  2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
Energy consumption  4,871	✓ 4 ,483 4 ,324 4 ,213 4 ,065
-Direct	energy22,304	✓ 2, 170 2,096 2, 050 1 ,967
-Indirect	energy3 MWh	in	thousands 2,567	✓ 2, 313 2,228 2, 163 2, 163
Renewable energy41,101	✓ 470 95 80 69
Greenhouse gas emissions (Scope	1+2) 911,576	✓  1,096,338  1 ,210,690  1 ,167,981  1 ,198,980
-Scope	15466,784	✓ 440 ,179 425 ,090 4 14,505 396 ,296
-Scope	26metric tons CO2e 444,792	✓ 656 ,159 7 85,600 7 53,476 802,684
-Scope	3711,876,976	✓  10,004,568  9 ,149,160  8 ,860,065  8 ,771,648  
-Biogenic8metric tons CO2 5,043	✓	 5 ,547	 5,277	 5,361	 -
Water consumption  m3 10,291,887	✓  9 ,580,889  9 ,247,420  9 ,067,068  8 ,963,702
Waste generation9 86,110 82, 677 67 ,173 60 ,223 60 ,455
-Recycled/reused
metric tons52,385 49 ,779 40 ,176 38 ,310 37 ,792
-Landfill 5,268 5 ,435 6 ,286 7 ,618 7 ,835
-Other	treatment 28,457 27 ,463 20 ,711 14 ,295 14,828
VOC emissions  metric tons 9,091  8 ,845 8,608 8 ,528 7 ,794
 UNIT  2021  2020  2019  2018  2017
Employees (year-end) 10,11 # 24,300  21,500   18,300   17,500   18,300
-Male 74 % 83 % 80 % 83  %  84 %
-Female %	of	total	workforce 18 % 17 % 17 % 17  %  16 %
-Not	disclosed12 8 % 0 % 3 % 0  %  0 %
-<30 16 % 16 % 20 % 17  %  15 %
-30-50 %	of	total	workforce 59 % 59 % 55 % 58  %  57 %
->50 25 % 25 % 25 % 25  %  28 %
Employee turnover13 12.5  % -   -   -   -
-Voluntary 	turnover 9.3 % -   -   -   -
Total	recordable 	incident 	rate recordable 	incidents/200,000 	hours	worked 1.01  0 .77   0 .90  0 .88   1.00
Severity 	rate lost	work	days/200,000 	hours	worked 11.10  9 .81  9.68  5.54  9.63
Work-related 	fatalities # 0 0   0   0   0ENVIRONMENTAL DATA1
SOCIAL DATA2021	SELECTED 	FIVE-YEAR 	REVIEW 	OF	ENVIRONMENTAL 	 AND 	 SOCIAL 	 DATA
%	of	total	workforce
✓ This metric is part of Management’s Assertion on sustainability metrics, which PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP has performed limited assurance over for the year ended December 31, 2021, as indicated in the Report of Independent Accountants. 
33
BALL CORPORATIONBOARD OF 
DIRECTORS
MICHAEL J. CAVE  
Former Senior Vice President  
of The Boeing Company 1,2
STUART A. TAYLOR II  
CEO of The Taylor  
Group, LLC 3,4,***DUNE E. IVES  
Chief Executive Officer  
Lonely WhaleDANIEL J. HEINRICH  
Former Executive Vice President and 
CFO of The Clorox Company 1,3DANIEL W. FISHER  
President and CEO-elect of  
Ball Corporation
TODD A. PENEGOR  
President and CEO  
of The Wendy’s Company 1,4JOHN A. BRYANT  
Former Chairman and CEO  
of Kellogg Company 1,4 
PEDRO HENRIQUE MARIANI  
Chairman of the Board  
of Bancom BBM 2
CATHY D. ROSS  
Former Executive Vice President 
and CFO of FedEx Express 1,4CYNTHIA A. NIEKAMP  
Former Senior Vice President  
of PPG Industries, Inc. 2,3
BETTY J. SAPP  
Former Director of the National 
Reconnaissance Office (NRO) 2,3GEORGIA R. NELSON  
Former President and CEO  
of PTI Resources, LLC 3,4JOHN A. HAYES  
Chairman and CEO of Ball 
CorporationCHARLES E. BAKER  
Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary
JAY BILLINGS  
Vice President and General Manager, Aerosol Packaging
NATE C. CAREY  
Vice President and Controller
CAREY S. CAUSEY  
President, Beverage Packaging EMEA
DANIEL W. FISHER *  
President and CEO-elect, Ball Corporation
JOHN A. HAYES ** 
Chairman and CEO, Ball Corporation
CHARLES JOHNSON  
Vice President, Diversity and Inclusion
DAVID A. KAUFMAN  
Senior Vice President and President, Ball Aerospace 
JEFFREY A. KNOBEL  
Vice President and Treasurer
RONALD J. LEWIS  
Senior Vice President and COO, Global Beverage Packaging 
SCOTT C. MORRISON  
Executive Vice President and CFO 
STACEY V. PANAYIOTOU  
Senior Vice President and CHRO
CARLOS PIRES  
President, Beverage Packaging South America
KATHLEEN PITRE  
President, Beverage Packaging North and Central America
DANIEL J. RABBITT  
Vice President, Corporate Planning and Development
COURTNEY K. REYNOLDS  
Vice President, Communications and Corporate Affairs
DENNIS SCHUILENBURG  
Chief Global Commercial and Sustainability OfficerGOVERNANCE  
& MANAGEMENT
*  On January 26, 2022, Mr. Fisher was elected Chief Executive 
Officer effective April 27, 2022
**  Mr. Hayes will transition solely to Chairman of the Board 
effective April 27, 2022COMMITTEES  
 1 Audit  
 2 Finance  
 3 Human Resources  
 4  Nominating/Corporate  
Governance
***   Lead Independent 
Director
34QUARTERLY RESULTS,  
COMPANY INFORMATION 
& INVESTOR RELATIONS
Quarterly financial information and company news are 
posted on www.ball.com/investors. For investor relations 
call (303) 460-3537.
PURCHASE PLAN
A dividend reinvestment and voluntary stock purchase 
plan for Ball Corporation shareholders permits purchase 
of the company’s common stock without payment of a 
brokerage commission. Participants in this plan may have 
cash dividends on their shares automatically reinvested 
and, if they choose, invest by making optional cash 
payments. Additional information on the plan is available 
by writing Computershare, Dividend  R einvestment 
Service, P.O. Box 505000, Louisville, KY 40233-5000. 
The toll-free number is (800) 446-2617, and the website 
is www.computershare.com/investor. You can access 
your Ball Corporation common stock account information 
on the Internet 24 hours a day, 7 days a week through 
Computershare’s website. If you need assistance, please 
call Computershare at (800) 446-2617 between 8 a.m. 
and 5 p.m. Eastern time.
VIRTUAL ANNUAL MEETING
The annual meeting of Ball Corporation shareholders 
will be held to tabulate the votes cast and to report 
the results of voting on the matters listed in the proxy 
statement sent to  all shareholders. No other business  
and no presentations are planned. The virtual meeting 
to report voting results will be held on Wednesday,  
April 27, 2022, at 7:30 a.m. Mountain time.ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
The Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2021 filed by the 
company  with the United States Securities and Exchange 
Commission is enclosed.
TRANSFER AGENT & REGISTRAR
Computershare 
P.O. Box 505000 
Louisville, KY 40233-5000 CERTIFICATIONS
The company has filed with the New York Stock Exchange 
the chief executive officer’s annual certification regarding 
compliance with the NYSE’s corporate governance listing 
 standards. The company also has filed with the United 
States Securities and Exchange Commission all required 
certifications by its chief executive officer and its chief 
financial officer regarding the quality of the company’s 
public disclosures.
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
Ball Corporation is an equal opportunity employer.
2021 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
QUARTERLY STOCK PRICES AND DIVIDENDS  
Closing quarterly stock prices for the company’s common stock and quarterly dividends in 2021 and 2020 were: 
2021  4th Quarter  3rd Quarter  2nd Quarter  1st Quarter 
High   $  9 7.67  $  98 .09  $  94 .29  $  93 .00
Low $  86 .82  $  7 7.95  $  7 8.69  $  80 .74
Dividends per share  $  0 .20  $  0 .20  $  0 .15  $  0 .15
2020  4th Quarter  3rd Quarter  2nd Quarter  1st Quarter 
High   $  9 7.91  $  84 .67  $  7 5.40  $  7 8.56
Low $  82. 60  $  69 .47  $  61 .17  $  51 .94
Dividends per share  $  0.15  $  0.15  $  0.15  $  0 .15
*High and low stock price represent the highest and lowest daily closing price for the quarter
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Uncompromising integrity is one of Ball’s core values and we are proud of our culture of ethical behavior and strong corporate governance practices. We are committed to high levels of accountability and 
transparency and have established a corporate governance structure and associated policies and procedures to achieve business success. Eleven of thirteen directors on our Board are independent, including all members of the Board’s four committees (Audit, Finance, Human Resources and Nominating/Corporate Governance). These committees assist the Board in discharging its duties and operate under written charters, each of which is available on our website. In January of 2022, after careful deliberation, the Board determined that it is in the best interests of Ball and its stakeholders to declassify our Board and to 
permit shareholders to amend our bylaws. These two items are included as proposals in the 2022 Proxy Statement. Additional information about our corporate governance including our Business Ethics Code  
of Conduct, the Ball Corporation Executive Officers and Directors Business Ethics Statement, the Directors Business Ethics Statement and our Bylaws may also be viewed on our website.
35
BALL CORPORATIONABOUT OUR REPORTING  
This is Ball Corporation’s first combined report, covering calendar year 2021. Since 1972 Ball Corporation has been publishing an 
annual report, providing our stakeholders with an overview of our business and how it performed financially during the previous 
calendar year. Since 2008, Ball has also been publishing a biennial sustainability report, sharing how we manage key sustainability 
topics, our performance in prior years, and our future goals.
As sustainability became even more deeply embedded through our organization and a fundamental part of our business strategy, 
we felt a combined report would best reflect our integration of sustainability into all aspects of our business and to provide our 
stakeholders with a comprehensive business, environmental, social and governance (ESG) update. This new report complements 
our financial filings and its primary audiences are shareholders, investors, customers, employees, suppliers and civil society.
Unless otherwise stated, we are reporting sustainability metrics globally, covering facilities where Ball has operational control, 
which includes owned manufacturing facilities, major administrative offices, warehouses, and research and development facilities. 
Operations that are outside of these criteria, such as joint venture locations where Ball does not have control and full authority to 
introduce and implement its operating policies, are not included.
References such as “currently,” “so far” or similar expressions reflect information as of Dec. 31, 2021. Some achievements from 
early 2022 are included in the report to provide the most relevant information to stakeholders. Further details on reporting 
principles, boundaries and data normalization are available on our website.
Limited assurance over select 2021 sustainability metrics was obtained from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. The Report of 
Independent Accountants and management assertion are available online. 
At times, we may revisit our historical sustainability performance data to ensure their accuracy. Due to improved data availability 
and accuracy, Ball has revised the calculation of historic VOC emissions (metric tons) for the following years: 2017, 2018, 2019,  
and 2020. Some information in this report is dependent on data that has been provided by third parties that are outside of our 
control. To the extent possible, we determined such information was gathered and reported accurately, and that the underlying 
assumptions and methodologies are sound.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option. A detailed GRI 
Content Index can be found online . Our processes to identify, assess, manage and oversee sustainability-related risks and 
opportunities reflect an intent to further align our reporting with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and the standards put forth by the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB).
In an effort to further strengthen our sustainability initiatives and to increase transparency, Ball’s Board of Directors approved 
joining the UN Global Compact and we look forward to sharing our annual communication on progress starting in 2023.
36
EXTERNAL ASSESSMENTS
Ball’s sustainability management and performance have again been recognized by external experts. 
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENT
This report contains “forward-looking” statements concerning future events and financial performance. Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “believes,” and similar expressions typically 
identify forward-looking statements, which are generally any statements other than statements of historical fact. Such statements are based on current expectations or views of the future and are 
subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied. You should therefore not place undue reliance upon any forward-looking 
statements and they should be read in conjunction with, and qualified in their entirety by, the cautionary statements referenced below. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise 
any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Key factors, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual outcomes and results to be different are 
summarized in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including Exhibit 99 in our Form 10-K, which are available on our website and at www.sec.gov . Additional factors that might affect: a) 
our packaging segments including product capacity, supply, and demand constraints and fluctuations and changes in consumption patterns; availability/cost of raw materials, equipment, and logistics; 
competitive packaging, pricing and substitution; changes in climate and weather; footprint adjustments and other manufacturing changes, including the startup of new facilities and lines; failure to achieve 
synergies, productivity improvements or cost reductions; unfavorable mandatory deposit or packaging laws; customer and supplier consolidation; power and supply chain interruptions; changes in major 
customer or supplier contracts or loss of a major customer or supplier; inability to pass through increased costs; political instability and sanctions; currency controls; changes in currency exchange or 
non-U.S. tax rates; and tariffs, trade actions, or other governmental actions, including business restrictions and shelter-in-place orders in any country or jurisdiction affecting goods produced by us or in 
our supply chain, including imported raw materials; b) our aerospace segment including funding, authorization, availability and returns of government and commercial contracts; and delays, extensions and 
technical uncertainties affecting segment contracts; c) the company as a whole including those listed above plus: the extent to which sustainability-related opportunities arise and can be capitalized upon; 
changes in senior management, succession, and the ability to attract and retain skilled labor; regulatory actions or issues including those related to tax, ESG reporting, competition, environmental, health 
and workplace safety, including U.S. FDA and other actions or public concerns affecting products filled in our containers, or chemicals or substances used in raw materials or in the manufacturing process; 
technological developments and innovations; the ability to manage cyber threats; litigation; strikes; disease; pandemic; labor cost changes; inflation; rates of return on assets of the company’s defined 
benefit retirement plans; pension changes; uncertainties surrounding geopolitical events and governmental policies, including policies, orders, and actions related to Covid-19; reduced cash flow; interest 
rates affecting our debt; and successful or unsuccessful joint ventures, acquisitions and divestitures, and their effects on our operating results and business generally.
This Summary Annual Report should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and other information contained in Ball Corporation’s Annual Report on  
Form 10-K for 2021, which is being furnished with the company’s Proxy Statement for the 2022 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Copyright© Ball Corporation 2022. Ball and        are 
trademarks of Ball Corporation Reg. U.S. Pat. & Tm. Office. We intend to change the company’s ticker symbol from BLL to BALL immediately following our annual shareholders’ meeting  
in April 2022. A public press release will be issued 10 days prior to the actual change date.
BALL CORPORATIONBALL  CORPORATION 2021 Combined Report Business & Sustainability Update
9200 West 108th Circle  
Westminster, CO 80021 USA
www.ball.comBALL CORPORATION COMBINED REPORT
2021 Business & Sustainability Update
