Our Priorities for a More Sustainable Future
Baxter 2009  SuStaInaBIlIty PrIorItIeS rePort comPrehenSIve rePort onlIne  }  sustainability.baxter.com 
Baxter International Inc., through its subsidiaries, develops, manufactures and markets products that save and  
sustain the lives of people with hemophilia, immune disorders, infectious diseases, kidney disease, trauma,  
and other chronic and acute medical conditions. As a global, diversified healthcare company, Baxter applies  
a unique combination of expertise in medical devices, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology to create products  
that advance patient care worldwide. 
Baxter manufactures products in 27 countries and sells them in more than 100, with approximately 60% of its  
sales coming from outside the United States. In 2009, Baxter’s global sales totaled approximately $12.6 billion.  
At year-end 2009, Baxter employed approximately 49,700 people worldwide.
Baxter operates in three Business segments:
The Bioscience  business is a leading manufacturer of 
recombinant and plasma-based proteins to treat hemophilia 
and other bleeding disorders; plasma-based therapies to treat 
immune deficiencies, alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency, burns and 
shock, and other chronic and acute blood-related conditions; 
products for regenerative medicine, such as biosurgery  
products; and vaccines.
The medication delivery  business manufactures products 
used in the delivery of fluids and drugs to patients. These include  
intravenous (IV) solutions and administration sets, premixed drugs 
and drug-reconstitution systems, pre-filled vials and syringes for  
injectable drugs, IV nutrition products, infusion pumps, and inhalation  
anesthetics, as well as products and services related to pharmacy 
compounding, drug formulation and packaging technologies.
The renal  business is a leading provider of products and  
services for peritoneal dialysis (PD), a home-based therapy for 
people with end-stage kidney disease. Products include PD solutions , 
devices and related supplies. The business also manufactures 
products and provides support services for continuous renal 
replacement therapy – an acute, hospital-based therapy – and 
distributes products for in-center hemodialysis.
more onlIne  }  sustainability.baxter.com/company_profile
Company Profile
contentS
comP any ProFIle 2
From the chaIrman anD ceo 3
SuStaInaBIlIty PrIorItIeS anD GoalS  4
our PeoPle 6
Safe and Healthy Workplace  7
Inclusive and Diverse Workplace  8 
Ethical Conduct and Legal Compliance  9
our oPeratIonS anD ProDuctS 10
Green Supply Chain  11 
Carbon Footprint  12
Natural Resource Use  13
Product Stewardship  15
our W orlD 16
Access to Healthcare  17
Education  19
GuIDe to comPrehenSIve  
rePort onlIne 20
Summary D ata taBle 22
AssurAnCe/VerifiCA tion
Baxter engaged Bureau Veritas north America, inc. to conduct 
an independent assurance/verification of selected sections  
of the Baxter 2009 Sustainability Priorities Report  and 
related content in the comprehensive report online. Bureau 
Veritas conducted the assurance/verification against its 
standard procedures and guidelines for external verification 
of sustainability reports, based on current best practice in 
independent assurance, according to the following symbols:
For the Environment, Health and Safety-related 
sections of this Priorities report , Bureau Veritas has 
determined that sections marked with this symbol are 
accurate, reliable and free from material mistake or 
misstatement.
For the Supply Chain-related section of this Priorities 
report , nothing has come to the attention of Bureau 
Veritas to indicate that the reviewed statements 
marked with this symbol are inaccurate or that the 
information is not fairly stated.this Baxter 2009 Sustainability Priorities Report describes 
progress against each of Baxter's nine sustainability 
priorities. s ee the comprehensive report online for 
performance information on the full range of Baxter's 
sustainability activities as well as additional detail about 
several of the priorities described in this document .
 
3 Baxter 2009  SuStaInaBIlIty PrIorItIeS rePort more onlIne  }   sustainability.baxter.com
From the Chairman and CEO
These are challenging times for healthcare. While the need for healthcare continues to grow, 
resources are limited. In many developing countries, people with hemophilia, end-stage 
kidney disease and other critical diseases still go untreated. In the United States, as many as 
50 million people lack health insurance, which in early 2010 precipitated the most significant 
national healthcare reform legislation since the introduction of Medicare.
The new U.S. healthcare reform legislation will expand access to healthcare coverage for 
U.S. citizens without insurance and seeks to reduce long-term healthcare costs. Other 
changes in our industry, coupled with an ongoing global economic crisis, also are contributing to a challenging environment 
for Baxter, encouraging us to intensify our focus on ways to become even more innovative, productive and efficient.
Sustainability, like any effective business strategy, requires a long-term view. Global climate change, natural resource  
depletion, political unrest, financial instability and insufficient access to quality healthcare and education are not problems 
that are solved overnight. Corporations have an important role to play, as do governments, non-governmental organizations 
and other groups, to help address these issues.
Some of these challenges, such as increasing access to healthcare and education, are especially relevant to Baxter. As a global  
healthcare company, we provide life-saving and life-sustaining products and therapies to developing markets, where healthcare needs 
are greatest. Much of our community involvement focuses on increasing access to health services for the poor and underserved. 
We’ve also taken a leadership role in supporting education, particularly in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM).        
In many ways, sustainability is an extension of our business and our culture. Each of our sustainability priorities represents 
an opportunity to engage employees, contribute to a more sustainable world and benefit our business. Reducing natural 
resource use, for example, conserves precious resources for the future and decreases operational costs. Promoting an 
inclusive and diverse workplace creates a culture that enables employees to work together more effectively and helps  
us retain good people. Supporting STEM education today helps ensure that more children are equipped to meet the  
scientific and technical challenges of tomorrow.        
While we’re proud of the progress we continue to make on our sustainability priorities and goals, we are never satisfied. 
We’re working to accelerate our progress on a number of these challenges, as we clearly can do more. 
I look forward to reporting further progress on our sustainability initiatives next year. 
Baxter  2009  SuS taInaBIlIty hIGhlIGhtS
Received Carbon Reduction certification from the  
Carbon Trust for FLEXBUMIN [Albumin (Human)] – 
the first and only albumin therapy in a flexible,  
plastic container, and the first and only medical 
product to receive this certification. 
Decreased water usage by 9% in absolute terms 
and 29% indexed to revenue compared to 2005.
Decreased net greenhouse gas emissions from 
operations by 5% on an absolute basis and 26% 
indexed to revenue compared to 2005.
Realized environmental benefits at Baxter’s  
European headquarters in Zurich, Switzerland, 
which uses nearly 80% less energy than a typical   
office building of its size due to green-building 
design elements such as natural lighting, roof-top 
solar panels and other innovative features. 
Delivered professional development to nearly 400 
Chicago Public Schools teachers through Baxter’s 
Science@Work program, bringing biotechnology  
to more than 24,000 students and earning the  
company “Outstanding Partner” recognition.
Launched Global Supplier Sustainability Program, 
incorporating 20 green criteria into Baxter’s  
purchasing procedures.
Achieved a third straight year of improvement in  
reducing cases resulting in days lost due to  
workplace injuries.
Provided more than $52 million in foundation  
grants and company  cash contributions and product  
donations to address critical needs globally, with  
a focus on increasing access to healthcare.   roBert l. P arKInSon, Jr.
CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
JUNE 2010BAXTER WILL STRENGTHEN ACCESS TO HEALTHCARE 
THROUGH PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AND STRATEGIC PRODUCT DONATIONS
BAXTER WILL STRENGTHEN THE COMPANY’S COMMITMENT  
TO EDUCATION, ESPECIALLY MATH AND SCIENCE• By 2010, assess existing products for relevance to the “base of the pyramid” (developing economies) and identify high-impact, 
economically viable product opportunities.
• Increase R&D investment from 2008 to improve access to healthcare for the “base of the pyramid.”
• Work with donor partners to develop and implement a strategic product donation plan beginning in 2010 that includes: being 
the ﬁrst on the scene following disasters and tragedies, contributing most needed products to stabilize supply, and contributing 
most needed products in least developed and developing economies.
• Facilitate learning of math and science through biotechnology education for Chicago Public Schools teachers and students, 
and partner with other educational organizations to provide similar opportunities in other locations.BAXTER WILL PROMOTE A SAFE AND HEALTHY WORKPLACE
BAXTER WILL PROMOTE AN INCLUSIVE AND DIVERSE 
WORKPLACE
BAXTER WILL PROMOTE ETHICAL CONDUCT AND LEGAL 
COMPLIANCE
Our Operations and ProductsOur People
Our World
BAXTER WILL DRIVE A GREEN SUPPLY CHAIN
 
BAXTER WILL DRIVE REDUCTIONS IN ITS CARBON 
FOOTPRINT
BAXTER WILL DRIVE REDUCTIONS IN ITS NATURAL 
RESOURCE USE
BAXTER WILL DRIVE ENHANCED PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
 • Reduce the carbon footprint of Baxter's U.S. car ﬂeet by 20% from 2007 baseline. 
• Incorporate green principles into Baxter’s purchasing program with its top 100 suppliers (by spend).
• Reduce greenhouse gas emissions 45% indexed to revenue from 2005 baseline. 
• Increase facility energy usage of renewable power to 20% (of total).
• Reduce total waste generation 30% indexed to revenue from 2005 baseline.
• Reduce energy usage 30% indexed to revenue from 2005 baseline.• Eliminate 5,000 metric tons of packaging material from products sent to customers from 2007 baseline.• Reduce water usage 35% indexed to revenue from 2005 baseline. To help achieve this, by 2010 evaluate potentially vulnerable 
watersheds associated with Baxter facilities and establish aggressive water conservation goals for high-risk areas.
• Implement two projects to help protect vulnerable watersheds or provide communities with enhanced access to clean water.
• Incorporate the following elements as appropriate into Baxter's product stewardship programs: sustainable design, takeback 
and recycling of Baxter's products.
• Identify new opportunities to replace, reduce and reﬁne (3Rs) the use of animal testing.• Implement best-in-class programs designed to protect the safety and improve the health of employees that result in performance 
in the top three of industry peers. See footnote 1 on page 7. 
• Create and sustain an inclusive culture where diverse ideas, backgrounds, experiences and perspectives are respected and valued.
• Continue to champion internal and industrywide ethical sales and marketing practices by:
  Implementing Baxter's enhanced U.S. Healthcare Compliance Program and International Anticorruption Program within the company; 
  Working with U.S. and international trade associations, non-governmental organizations and governments to harmonize and enforce   
  standards on ﬁnancial interactions with healthcare providers that allow for appropriate education, research and dialogue on products 
  and services and discourage improper incentives.
Page 17 or 
sustainability.baxter.com/community_support
Page 19 or 
sustainability.baxter.com/community_supportPage 11 or 
sustainability.baxter.com/supply_chain
Page 12 or 
sustainability.baxter.com/EHS
Page 13 or 
sustainability.baxter.com/EHS andsustainability.baxter.com/product_responsibility
Page 15 or 
sustainability.baxter.com/product_responsibilityPage 7 or
sustainability.baxter.com/EHS
Page 8 or 
sustainability.baxter.com/employees and  sustainability.baxter.com/supply_chain
Page 9 or sustainability.baxter.com/governance_ethics_and_compliance
Baxter recognizes the importance of having clear priorities to focus its efforts and direct its initiatives. The company’s nine 
sustainability priorities fall into three broad categories: Our People, Our Operations and Products, and Our World. These 
priorities reflect issues of key concern to Baxter and its stakeholders as well as areas where the company is uniquely 
positioned to have a positive impact. Baxter’s longer-term performance goals (detailed in the table to the right) demonstrate 
the company’s commitment, motivate continual improvement and help stakeholders assess performance.PrIorItIeS  
4 Baxter 2009  SuStaInaBIlIty PrIorItIeS rePort more onlIne  }  sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability_at_baxter/priorities_goals
Frank Gong, research scientist at Baxter’s China Premix Research and Development Centre in Suzhou, compounds intravenous pharmaceutical products  
for Chinese hospitals. Baxter has made significant investments in China to meet the country’s growing need for quality healthcare.Baxter Sustainability Priorities and GoalsBAXTER WILL STRENGTHEN ACCESS TO HEALTHCARE 
THROUGH PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AND STRATEGIC PRODUCT DONATIONS
BAXTER WILL STRENGTHEN THE COMPANY’S COMMITMENT  
TO EDUCATION, ESPECIALLY MATH AND SCIENCE• By 2010, assess existing products for relevance to the “base of the pyramid” (developing economies) and identify high-impact, 
economically viable product opportunities.
• Increase R&D investment from 2008 to improve access to healthcare for the “base of the pyramid.”
• Work with donor partners to develop and implement a strategic product donation plan beginning in 2010 that includes: being 
the ﬁrst on the scene following disasters and tragedies, contributing most needed products to stabilize supply, and contributing 
most needed products in least developed and developing economies.
• Facilitate learning of math and science through biotechnology education for Chicago Public Schools teachers and students, 
and partner with other educational organizations to provide similar opportunities in other locations.BAXTER WILL PROMOTE A SAFE AND HEALTHY WORKPLACE
BAXTER WILL PROMOTE AN INCLUSIVE AND DIVERSE 
WORKPLACE
BAXTER WILL PROMOTE ETHICAL CONDUCT AND LEGAL 
COMPLIANCE
Our Operations and ProductsOur People
Our World
BAXTER WILL DRIVE A GREEN SUPPLY CHAIN
 
BAXTER WILL DRIVE REDUCTIONS IN ITS CARBON 
FOOTPRINT
BAXTER WILL DRIVE REDUCTIONS IN ITS NATURAL 
RESOURCE USE
BAXTER WILL DRIVE ENHANCED PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
 • Reduce the carbon footprint of Baxter's U.S. car ﬂeet by 20% from 2007 baseline. 
• Incorporate green principles into Baxter’s purchasing program with its top 100 suppliers (by spend).
• Reduce greenhouse gas emissions 45% indexed to revenue from 2005 baseline. 
• Increase facility energy usage of renewable power to 20% (of total).
• Reduce total waste generation 30% indexed to revenue from 2005 baseline.
• Reduce energy usage 30% indexed to revenue from 2005 baseline.• Eliminate 5,000 metric tons of packaging material from products sent to customers from 2007 baseline.• Reduce water usage 35% indexed to revenue from 2005 baseline. To help achieve this, by 2010 evaluate potentially vulnerable 
watersheds associated with Baxter facilities and establish aggressive water conservation goals for high-risk areas.
• Implement two projects to help protect vulnerable watersheds or provide communities with enhanced access to clean water.
• Incorporate the following elements as appropriate into Baxter's product stewardship programs: sustainable design, takeback 
and recycling of Baxter's products.
• Identify new opportunities to replace, reduce and reﬁne (3Rs) the use of animal testing.• Implement best-in-class programs designed to protect the safety and improve the health of employees that result in performance 
in the top three of industry peers. See footnote 1 on page 7. 
• Create and sustain an inclusive culture where diverse ideas, backgrounds, experiences and perspectives are respected and valued.
• Continue to champion internal and industrywide ethical sales and marketing practices by:
  Implementing Baxter's enhanced U.S. Healthcare Compliance Program and International Anticorruption Program within the company; 
  Working with U.S. and international trade associations, non-governmental organizations and governments to harmonize and enforce   
  standards on ﬁnancial interactions with healthcare providers that allow for appropriate education, research and dialogue on products 
  and services and discourage improper incentives.
Page 17 or 
sustainability.baxter.com/community_support
Page 19 or 
sustainability.baxter.com/community_supportPage 11 or 
sustainability.baxter.com/supply_chain
Page 12 or 
sustainability.baxter.com/EHS
Page 13 or 
sustainability.baxter.com/EHS andsustainability.baxter.com/product_responsibility
Page 15 or 
sustainability.baxter.com/product_responsibilityPage 7 or
sustainability.baxter.com/EHS
Page 8 or 
sustainability.baxter.com/employees and  sustainability.baxter.com/supply_chain
Page 9 or sustainability.baxter.com/governance_ethics_and_compliance
PrIorItIeS  2015 GoalS (UNlESS STATED OTHERWISE)  r e l a t e D c o n t e n t 
5 Baxter 2009  SuStaInaBIlIty PrIorItIeS rePort more onlIne  }   sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability_at_baxter/priorities_goals
Shelley Raymond is an Environment, Health and Safety 
manager at Baxter’s manufacturing facility in Alliston, 
Ontario, Canada. The plant was the company’s first in 
North America to achieve certification to the International 
Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001 Environmental 
Management System Standard and the Occupational  
Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001. Baxter’s 49,700 employees 
worldwide are essential  
to creating products that  
save and sustain lives.  
The company is continually  
improving its structures  
and programs to provide a 
safe, healthy and inclusive 
workplace and to foster a 
culture that drives integrity 
and innovation. Our Peoplepriority
7 Baxter 2009  SuStaInaBIlIty PrIorItIeS rePort 7 more onlIne  }   sustainability.baxter.com/EHSFull-time employees spend a significant number of their waking hours at work. This underscores the importance for companies to create workplaces that are safe and 
promote health. Baxter continually searches for ways to further decrease the potential for injury and enhance employee wellness.
1  In a comparison of 12 healthcare companies reporting global safety data to ORC Worldwide, 
Baxter’s performance ranked fourth in cases with days lost rate in 2008, the most recent year 
industry benchmarking data were available. 
2  Serious workplace incident cases are those that result in an employee or contractor being 
hospitalized overnight, sustaining an amputation or dying.
3  All rates based on 100 full-time employees working one year, which equals a total of  
200,000 work hours. For tracking purposes, Baxter applies U.S. Occupational Safety and Health 
Administration recordkeeping practices worldwide. Thus, in cases where an injury occurs and 
there are conflicting medical opinions as to the number of days away and/or restricted days that 
should be recorded, Baxter records on the basis of the most authoritative physician’s opinion. 
Cases with days lost:  work-related injuries or illnesses that cause an employee to lose at least 
one full day after the date of the incident. Days lost:  number of days lost recommended by the 
most authoritative physician’s opinion (including weekends and holidays) due to a work-related 
injury or illness. Restricted days:  number of days recommended by the most authoritative 
physician’s opinion that an employee or supervised contractor is unable to work full duty 
(including weekends and holidays) due to a work-related injury or illness. Baxter does not count 
the date of injury and date of return to full duty as restricted days.  Recordable cases:  work-related 
injuries or illnesses requiring medical attention beyond first-aid, including cases with days lost. 
4  In November 2009, a contractor died while performing on-site dredging of a pond at Baxter’s 
Deerfield, Illinois, United States, headquarters. The Lake County medical examiner determined 
that the individual died of natural causes, and that the death was not work-related. It therefore 
is not included in this data.
The design of this wheeled product-transfer unit enables employees such 
as Lynn Carroll of Baxter’s Thetford, United Kingdom, facility to easily push 
products into an isolation chamber rather than lift them. 
Baxter WIll Promote a SaFe anD healthy WorKPlace
 priority
progress
2015  goal
implement best-in-class programs designed to protect the safety and improve the health of employees that result  
in performance in the top three of industry peers.
update
In 2009, Baxter demonstrated its third straight year of improvement in its cases with days lost rate, a 52% reduction  
from 2006. In 2008, the most recent year industry benchmarking data were available, Baxter’s performance ranked fourth 
of industry peers.1
Unfortunately, the company did not see a reduction in the number of serious incident cases.2 Baxter is assessing the  
root causes of those events and determining how to avoid them in the future. See more detail in the comprehensive  
report online.
employee safety   Baxter applies two main processes to continually improve safety performance:
Hazard identification and risk assessment (HIRA)   enables Baxter to tailor programs that address the main sources  
of employee injuries and illnesses. For example, Baxter’s Castlebar, Ireland, facility takes a risk-based approach to  
controlling ergonomic risk, which the company has identified as a key focus area globally. At the facility, manual 
handling-related injuries decreased from 21% of the total in 2008 to 10% in 2009.
Near-miss reporting   enables employees to identify incidents that might have resulted in injury, illness or damage  
but did not. When all levels of employees are actively involved in identifying and eliminating hazards, injuries can  
be prevented. By 2009, 64% of manufacturing, research and development and distribution sites with 100 or more   
employees had implemented a near-miss reporting program. For example, since the Cleveland, Mississippi, United States,  
manufacturing site launched an online near-miss reporting tool in 2006, near-miss reporting at the site has increased by 89%.
Health and Wellness    BeWell@Baxter is the company’s umbrella program for its health and wellness initiatives. Its  
cornerstone is the Personal Wellness Profile, an online health risk assessment that helps employees understand how  
lifestyle choices, family history and other factors impact their health. The assessment provides Baxter with data to  
target facility-level and global programs. 
Twenty-eight percent of the company’s employees worldwide completed a Personal Wellness Profile by the end of 2009  
(including those completed during 2008), nearly double the goal of 15%. By the end of 2009, Baxter provided facility-level 
health risk reports and recommendations to the 19 sites that exceeded a 20% response rate to help them set local  
priorities and design risk-based programs. Based on companywide employee health risk data, the two main wellness 
campaigns for 2010 are focused on exercise and nutrition.
Baxter made progress on its smoke-free workplaces initiative during the year as well, increasing the percentage of  
smoke-free facilities to 82% at the end of 2009, up from 77% in 2008. Baxter is assessing how to address possible work 
rule limitations in Europe, which can restrict the company’s ability to enact this type of workplace program.12/24
0/04 Cases with Days Lost Rate                         0.15 (improved 21% )
Days Lost Rate    4.16 (improved 2%)
Restricted Days Rate    12.68 (improved 35% )
Recordable Case Rate    1.07 (improved 17% )
Employee/ Contractor Serious Incidents2 
Employee/ Contractor  Fatalities2009  SAFETY PERFORMANCE  (compared to 2008)3
Baxter 2009  SuStaInaBIlIty PrIorItIeS rePortpriority
8 Baxter 2009  SuStaInaBIlIty PrIorItIeS rePort more onlIne  }  
2015  goal
Create and sustain an inclusive culture where diverse ideas, backgrounds, experiences and perspectives are 
respected and valued.
update
With input from Baxter’s Global Inclusion Council, in 2009 several of the company’s businesses and regions  
developed customized plans to drive progress toward inclusion goals. For example, Baxter’s U.S. Government  
Affairs and Public Policy team and Renal business collaborated with the National Kidney Foundation,  
Congressional Black Caucus, Congressional Hispanic Caucus and other minority associations to raise awareness 
of Medicare’s new benefit for education on end-stage renal disease, a condition that disproportionately impacts 
African Americans, Hispanics and Native Americans. Also, Baxter’s BioScience business developed programs 
to increase awareness and education about hemophilia diagnosis and treatment among Hispanics. In 2010, the 
Global Inclusion Council will help all of Baxter’s businesses, regions and functions develop and execute inclusion 
plans and integrate inclusion into the business as well as lead Baxter’s new companywide employee education 
initiative to help employees understand their role in building a more inclusive culture.
During 2009, Baxter developed a Global Inclusion Scorecard of employee representation data covering aspects  
such as gender, ethnicity and job level. The Scorecard is used to help identify gaps and opportunities to enhance 
Baxter’s global inclusion strategy. For example, data from the Scorecard have been used with senior executives 
to illustrate the composition of their organization and determine ways to increase diversity such as through  
partnerships with external organizations to strengthen the talent pipeline.  
Baxter continues to focus on developing mutually beneficial relationships with small and diverse suppliers.  
Supporting diverse suppliers contributes to overall economic vitality and reflects Baxter’s diverse employee and 
customer base. In 2009, Baxter increased visibility of the company’s supplier diversity program by adding  
supplier diversity information to the supplier agreement summary sheets approved by senior management. During 
the year, Baxter spent $484 million with small businesses in the United States and Puerto Rico, approximately 
20% of Baxter’s total supplier spending in those markets. The company spent approximately $80 million with 
women-owned businesses and $20 million with minority-owned firms. See more detail on page 22.A diverse employee population is a fundamental aspect of inclusion, yet it is not enough on its own. Baxter also strives to create an inclusive culture that fosters  respect and 
enables all employees to work together effectively. Every Baxter employee is expected to demonstrate behaviors expressed in the Baxter Leadership Expectations, 
including respect for individuals and the diverse contributions of all.Baxter WIll Promote an IncluSIve anD DIverSe WorKPlace
Doug Younger discusses his career path at Baxter as part of a Career Day  
panel discussion for high school students held at the company’s 
headquarters in Deerfield, Illinois, United States.  progress
sustainability.baxter.com/employees  and  sustainability.baxter.com/supply_chainEnhance Baxter’s brand by 
attracting, retaining and  
building the capabilities
of a diverse workforce
to drive and
meet customer
and patient
demandIncrease revenue by expanding 
demand for products and services through better 
patient/customer demographic analysis and 
segmentation; more inclusive
 
clinical trials; and design of products to meet 
diverse needs
Reduce costs and increase efﬁciency by enabling the workforce to be innovative and meet customer and patient demandBusiness
Impact on
products
and servicesTalent
Impact on employee
engagement,  retention  
and advancement
Operations
Impact on 
internal systems 
and processes
© 2010 Hewitt Associates. Used with permission.THE BUSINESS CASE FOR INCLUSION 
AND DIVERSITY AT BAXTERpriority
9 Baxter 2009  SuStaInaBIlIty PrIorItIeS rePort
progressCorruption poses a significant challenge to the global economy. It is an impediment to sustainable development, increases inequality, undermines public institutions 
and dampens economic growth. For companies, corruption adds to the cost of doing business, represents significant legal and reputational risks and creates 
unsustainable business relationships.Baxter WIll Promote ethIcal conDuct anD le Gal comPlIance
2015  goal
Continue to champion internal and industrywide ethical sales and marketing practices by:
	Implementing Baxter’s enhanced U.S. Healthcare Compliance Program and International Anticorruption Program 
within the company.
update
Baxter is focused on promoting and selling its products based on their merit and value. The company empowers employees  
to work with integrity and in compliance with laws worldwide through education, live resources and other tools.
In 2008, Baxter launched and began training employees on its new Code of Conduct, which addresses Baxter’s commitment 
to ethical and lawful sales and marketing practices in the United States and abroad. In 2009, Baxter completed its Code of 
Conduct training, refreshed its policies addressing corruption and interactions with healthcare providers around the globe,  
and introduced an International Interactions Policy website containing compliance-related tools such as local country annexes. 
Developed by Baxter, these annexes summarize anticorruption laws and industry and professional codes of practice in each 
country outside the United States where Baxter does business, and provide specific guidance on typical employee interactions.
To implement these policies effectively, Baxter launched an e-learning module addressing international corruption. The company 
also held more than 100 international anticorruption training sessions in 19 languages for about 3,500 relevant employees,  
and delivered more than 90 U.S. healthcare compliance training sessions to more than 3,000 relevant employees.
Baxter supplemented this training with awareness communications, such as periodic compliance alerts to senior  
management on global enforcement trends. Training continues for other key employee groups. 
2015  goal
Continue to champion internal and industrywide ethical sales and marketing practices by:
	Working with U.S. and international trade associations, non-governmental organizations and governments to harmonize  
and enforce standards on financial interactions with healthcare providers that allow for appropriate education, 
research and dialogue on products and services and discourage improper incentives. 
update
In 2009, Baxter identified more than 100 country-level organizations and 22 regional, global or multilateral organizations focused 
on anticorruption. Based on the risk Baxter faces in each country and the company’s potential to make a positive impact, Baxter 
will prioritize organizations to collaborate with to create industry-level codes of practice related to product marketing and sales.  
Additionally, Baxter is reviewing how broader anticorruption initiatives such as the UN Global Compact, the World Economic Forum  
Partnering Against Corruption Initiative and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Principles may  
complement the company’s approach. During 2010, Baxter plans to determine whether and how it will engage in these efforts.
more onlIne  }   sustainability.baxter.com/governance_ethics_and_complianceBaxter’s code of conduct r eceives high marks  
Baxter’s Code of Conduct defines the core principles that 
govern employee behavior and how the company conducts  
its business. It was featured in November 2009 as the  
Ethisphere Institute’s Code of the Week with an overall 
score of A-. Baxter received top scores for the Code’s public 
availability, expressed values and commitments, risk topics 
discussed, and related non-retaliation and reporting efforts. 
Electronic and in-person training on the Code ensures that  
all Baxter employees worldwide understand the company’s  
ethics and compliance expectations and why compliance to 
each standard is important to Baxter’s business. During 2009,  
the Ethics and Compliance team also conducted more than 
100 in-person training sessions to educate more than 2,200  
employees on the company’s Ethics and Compliance Program. Code of Conduct posters from Baxter’s  
Asia Pacific facilities
Jonathan Nicol and other employees of Baxter’s Sherbrooke, 
Quebec, Canada, facility help maintain nearly 6,000 trees  
that Baxter planted during the last five years to offset 
emissions associated with the site’s activities. Sherbrooke  
was Canada’s  first manufacturing facility to receive carbon 
neutral certification in 2005.Environmental stewardship 
has been central to Baxter  
for more than three decades.  
To continue to improve the 
company’s environmental  
performance, Baxter has  
programs across the product 
life cycle, from product  
development and supplier 
management to manufacturing,  
transport and end-of-life.Our Operations and Products11 Baxter 2009  SuStaInaBIlIty PrIorItIeS rePort more onlIne  }   sustainability.baxter.com/supply_chain
Baxter WIll DrIve a Green SuPPly chaIn
A significant amount of Baxter’s broader environmental impacts occur within its supply chain. For example, an estimated 38% of the company’s overall carbon 
footprint is represented by its suppliers. Baxter concentrates its efforts to green its supply chain on minimizing transportation-related emissions, procuring raw 
materials and other goods and services with reduced environmental impacts, and helping suppliers improve their environmental performance.  
1  Baxter considers a supplier green in a category if it responds positively to 90%   
of questions in that category.
priority
progress
2015 goal
reduce the carbon footprint of Baxter’s u.s. car fleet by 20% from 2007 baseline.
update
In 2009, Baxter’s U.S. car fleet emitted 10,331 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emissions, 1.5% more  
than the 2007 baseline. Baxter is in the process of replacing the majority of its fleet from six-cylinder to more fuel-efficient 
four-cylinder vehicles by 2012. The company will continue to encourage fuel-efficient driving through online training and  
by monitoring maintenance reports. 
Baxter is also working to reduce the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions of its car fleets in other countries. In Japan, the 
company plans to convert 200 of its 250 sales fleet cars to hybrid vehicles by the end of 2012. This will save an estimated 
400 metric tons of CO2e emissions a year.  
2015  goal
incorporate green principles into Baxter’s purchasing program with its top 100 suppliers (by spend).
update
In 2009, Baxter launched its Global Supplier Sustainability Program. It includes an initiative to procure products and services 
that help the company reduce its environmental impact while maintaining continuity of supply and managing costs. Baxter 
incorporated 20 green criteria into its purchasing procedures, providing its procurement organization a framework to evaluate  
suppliers’ sustainability initiatives. These criteria include items such as environmental performance tracking and reporting;  
natural resource use; hazardous substances management; product and packaging take-back programs; and goals to  
decrease energy use, GHG emissions and water consumption. Sustainability is one of several factors, also including quality 
and cost, which Baxter uses to select and evaluate its suppliers. 
In 2009, Baxter identified 100 suppliers based on spend, importance to supply continuity, and carbon footprint, and surveyed 
those suppliers to assess their performance against the criteria mentioned above (see table). Baxter considers a supplier 
green if the supplier has programs in at least 90% of the criteria surveyed. In 2009, 10% of the 70 respondents met this 
definition. By learning more about suppliers’ environmental performance, Baxter can identify opportunities to collaborate for 
improvement. In 2009, Baxter launched its e-Impact  program to communicate suppliers’ environmental success stories and 
to recognize Baxter employees and suppliers for environmental initiatives. For example, Baxter supplier lexington Precision 
enhanced its rubber molding process, reducing raw materials use by approximately 50%, improving quality and providing 
cost savings to Baxter.
Baxter has worked with external organizations such as the Green Suppliers Network to help suppliers use resources more  
efficiently and the Carbon Disclosure Project to improve carbon reporting in the company’s supply chain.Innovations in Product transport 
During 2009, Baxter implemented the use of inland  
waterways rather than ground freight to transport goods 
to and from the ports of Antwerp, Belgium, and Rotterdam, 
Netherlands, and the company’s Lessines, Belgium,  
facility. This shift saved the company 40% on freight  
costs and decreased fuel use and associated emissions  
by 80% on those routes. 
-35-30-25-20-15-10-50Total Water
Total EnergyTotal WasteBAXTER ANNUAL SUPPLIER SUSTAINABILITY SURVEY 
SUMMARY RESULTS, 2009
CATEGORY % GREEN1
Environmental/Sustainability Program
Example Criteria: Measures and reports environmental information23%
Reductions in Carbon Footprint
Example Criteria: Has a goal and program to reduce GHG emissions31%
Reductions in Natural Resource Use
Example Criteria: Has a goal and activities to reduce waste generation30%
Enhanced Product Stewardship
Example Criteria: Uses a product stewardship/life cycle approach14%
Baxter continually explores options to reduce fuel use and GHG emissions from 
product transport, such as with these double-decker trucks with enhanced 
aerodynamic features used in Baxter’s European facilities. priority
12 Baxter 2009  SuStaInaBIlIty PrIorItIeS rePort more onlIne  }  Baxter WIll DrIve reDuctIonS In ItS c arBon FootPrInt
Industry produces about 20% of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions globally.¹ As a result, companies have an important role to play to reduce GHG emissions that  
contribute to climate change. Baxter’s strategies to reduce emissions from operations include energy conservation, energy-efficient technologies, renewable energy, new 
high-performance facilities and the use of carbon credits and offsets. See more detail about the company’s broad approach in the comprehensive report online. 
progress
2015  goal
reduce greenhouse gas emissions 45% indexed to revenue from 2005 baseline.2
update
In 2009, Baxter’s GHG emissions from operations equaled 751,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e), a 26%  
reduction indexed to revenue compared to 2005, and a 5% absolute decrease. 
Energy use represents 96% of Baxter’s net GHG emissions from operations, so energy conservation is core to the company’s 
emissions-reduction program (see page 13 for detail). This program saved $6.7 million in energy costs in 2009.
Green buildings provide many benefits that enhance employee productivity and reduce operating expense. Baxter’s  
European headquarters in Zurich, Switzerland, includes natural lighting, water-based cooling and heating, and roof-top solar 
panels. As a result, it offers a pleasant working environment and uses nearly 80% less energy than a typical office building  
of similar size. The company has incorporated green-building design principles at several other sites worldwide. 
Baxter complements these efforts with the purchase of electricity generated from renewable power, carbon credits and carbon 
offsets. These equaled 49,000 metric tons of CO2e reductions in 2009. During the year, the company purchased 74,100 megawatt 
hours (MWh) of 100% certified renewable power in Austria and 29,500 MWh of certified renewable energy certificates (RECs)  
in the United States, making Baxter the 28th largest corporate purchaser in the country.3  
Baxter supports market-based carbon cap-and-trade programs, and has participated in the Chicago Climate Exchange  
since 2003 (as a founding member) and the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme since 2005. Baxter also has agreed  
to participate on the technical committees developing the India Climate Exchange and Tianjin Climate Exchange (in China).
Through the purchase of electricity generated by certified renewable energy and carbon credits, as well as tree planting  
(with independent verification), Baxter has achieved carbon neutrality related to on-site electricity usage and fuel consumption  
at several sites, including its corporate headquarters in Deerfield, Illinois, United States.
2015  goal
increase facility energy usage of renewable power to 20% (of total).
update
In 2009, 17% of Baxter facilities’ energy use was from renewable energy sources, unchanged from 2008. This includes electricity 
generated by certified renewable power purchased specifically by Baxter (4.3%), the renewable energy component of electrical 
utilities serving Baxter sites (5.1%)4, and energy from the use of a wood-fired boiler at one of Baxter’s locations (7.6%).5
The installation of onsite renewable energy projects continues to be a challenge for Baxter. This is primarily due to relatively low 
project paybacks, even though the company has reduced its minimum required internal rate of return for energy projects.
sustainability.baxter.com/EHS“ Baxter’s ranking among the leading 100 U.S. companies  
in Maplecroft’s Climate Innovation Indexes reflects   
a strong alignment of environmental management  
systems with forward-looking innovation activities,  
in relation to energy efficiencies as well as the use  
of renewable energy.” 
  alyson Warhurst , CEO, Maplecroft Climate Innovation Indexes
1  IPCC Climate Change 2007: Synthesis Report, page 36.  
http://www.ipcc.ch/pdf/assessment-report/ar4/syr/ar4_syr.pdf.
2  Baxter’s principal GHG emissions reduction goal applies to its operations, including 
emissions associated with facility energy use (both from fuel burned on site and 
purchased electricity), company-managed sales and distribution fleet vehicles, other 
vehicles and refrigerant losses. Net emissions from operations also take into account 
the purchase of renewable energy, carbon credits and carbon offsets. The company has 
programs to address the other emissions categories noted in the graph as well, which  
are estimated by Baxter and independent third parties. See information related to  
supply chain and product delivery on page 11.
3 See www.epa.gov/grnpower/toplists/fortune500.htm.
4  As nations increasingly enact renewable-energy requirements for electricity providers,  
the total percentage of electrical energy Baxter purchases that is generated from  
non-renewable resources is expected to decline.
5  For 2009, GHG emissions from a Baxter wood-fired boiler equaled 156,000 metric tons CO2e. 
Baxter includes these emissions in its overall GHG emissions footprint. However, following  
the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Rev. Edition  
(page 63), the company does not include CO2e emissions from biologically sequestrated carbon  
(e.g. CO2e from burning biomass/biofuels) in its total emissions from operations (Scope 1 and 
2) or in progress against its 2015 GHG emissions reduction goal. See more detail in the table  
“Baxter Energy Usage and Greenhouse Gas Emissions” in the comprehensive report online.BAXTER’S GLOBAL GHG EMISSIONS FOOTPRINT, 2009
Supply Chain  38%(total = 3.0 million metric tons CO2e)
Product Use/End-of-Life  3%
Operations  2 5%Employee Business
Travel/Commuting  5%
Product 
Transport  24%
Wood 
Boiler5  5%priority
13 Baxter 2009  SuStaInaBIlIty PrIorItIeS rePortBaxter WIll DrIve reDuctIonS In ItS natural reSource uSe
The world’s human population has more than doubled from 3 billion in 1959 to 6.8 billion in 2010, and is projected to grow to 9 billion by 2040.¹ This dramatic  
increase combined with rapid economic development in many countries places enormous strain on natural resources. To extend the availability of these resources to 
future generations, Baxter works to use them efficiently. This also improves the company’s environmental performance and enhances its competitive advantage.
Lorenzo Hutson (left) and Michael Bellomo of Baxter’s plasma-fractionation 
facility in Los Angeles, California, United States, assess the plant’s new 
wastewater treatment facility, completed in 2009.
more onlIne  }   sustainability.baxter.com/EHS 
progress
2015  goal
reduce total waste generation 30% indexed to revenue from 2005 baseline.
update
Baxter’s main source of non-hazardous waste is plastics scrap material from manufacturing (approximately 30% of the total  
generated in 2009). Its main source of regulated waste is biological and human blood-derived plasma wastes from plasma donor 
activities and plasma processing (54% of the total). In 2009, Baxter generated 61,290 metric tons of waste, 16% less than in 2005, 
indexed to revenue, and an absolute increase of 7%. This was driven primarily by business growth and expansion.
Baxter identifies its leading opportunities to decrease waste based on factors including the highest volume waste streams  
across the company, facilities that produce the most waste, and sites with particularly strong potential to improve.
Baxter has initiated packaging reduction projects for shipments between facilities by replacing one-way disposable containers  
with reusable ones. Recent projects in the United States and Puerto Rico have reduced packaging waste by more than 400 
metric tons. In 2009, more than 15 facilities worldwide recycled more than 90% of their non-hazardous waste. 
Baxter’s plasma-related waste rose during the past year due to increased plasma collection and processing. Waste plastics  
continue to be an opportunity for improvement, which Baxter will address with a formal program in 2010.
2015  goal
reduce energy usage 30% indexed to revenue from 2005 baseline.
update
Baxter’s primary energy uses in its facilities are electricity to power lighting, critical systems and manufacturing equipment (41% of 
the total), and fuels to generate steam for heat, water purification and product sterilization (59%). The company used 8,572 trillion 
joules of energy in its facilities in 2009, 21% less than in 2005, indexed to revenue, and an absolute increase of 1%. 
Baxter’s main focus is increasing energy efficiency in manufacturing. The company uses annual goals and a lean energy program  
to drive enhancements, and reports performance by location quarterly to its Manufacturing Council to ensure ongoing progress.
The company conducts energy balances2 at major sites. Based on energy and water invoices, electrical readings and fuel use data, 
the company identifies and prioritizes energy conservation opportunities. These projects can lead to 10-25% energy-related cost  
savings per unit of production. Since 2005, Baxter has realized $27.6 million in savings through these efforts.
Baxter also uses innovative technologies to decrease energy use. In 2009, the company’s Medication Delivery manufacturing facility in 
Thetford, United Kingdom, began to install lED lighting, and has converted 25% of its fixtures. This pilot will save an estimated 240 MWh 
annually, and will influence the company’s future lighting strategies. Baxter’s BioScience site in Thousand Oaks, California, installed  
a 94% efficient boiler economizer, the third such system in the United States (see case study in the comprehensive report online).(priority continued 
on following page)
PROGRESS ON 2015  ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS
(see page 22 for detail, including absolute values)
-35-30-25-20-15-10-50Total Water
Total Energy
Total Waste% REDUCTION, INDEXED TO REVENUE
TOTAL WASTE TOTAL ENERGY TOTAL WATER-35%-30%-25%-20%-15%-10%-5%0%
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
0%
0%0%0%
-5%-8%-6%
-12%-17%-13%-19%-2
7%-16%-21%-29%201
5 Goal
-30%-30%-3
5%Total Waste 
Energy Usage
Water Usage
1  U.S. Census Bureau, International Data Base.  
http://www.census.gov/ipc/www/idb/worldpopinfo.html.
2  Energy balances identify all points of energy consumption and usage at a facility.14 Baxter 2009  SuStaInaBIlIty PrIorItIeS rePort more onlIne  }  
progress
2015  goal
eliminate 5,000 metric tons of packaging material from products sent to customers from 2007 baseline.
update
Baxter works to minimize packaging materials and selects materials taking into account their environmental impact, focusing  
on high-volume products. During 2009, the company implemented projects that achieved an annualized reduction of 933 metric  
tons of corrugated cardboard consumption, exceeding the interim target of 800 metric tons. Total annualized savings since  
2007 equal 1,410 metric tons.1 
For example, in 2009 Baxter’s Medication Delivery business introduced a smaller carton for 5-liter intravenous solutions, saving  
68 metric tons of corrugated material per year. The company is working to address decentralized packaging reduction activities 
in a more structured manner. In 2010, Baxter will continue to improve its packaging tracking systems and enhance its ability to 
spread best practices across the organization.
2015  goal
reduce water usage 35% indexed to revenue from 2005 baseline. t o help achieve this, by 2010 evaluate potentially 
vulnerable watersheds associated with Baxter facilities and establish aggressive water conservation goals for  
high-risk areas.
update
Baxter’s main use of water is for manufacturing-related processes such as in cooling towers, sterilizers and steam boilers (80% of  
total use). In 2009, the company used 13.4 million cubic meters of water, 29% less than in 2005, indexed to revenue. Absolute 
water use decreased for the fourth consecutive year.
Baxter conducts water balances2 at high-volume sites to identify reduction opportunities. For example, Baxter’s site in Cherry 
Hill, New Jersey, United States, decreased water system flushing, reduced water filter backwash frequencies and recycled water 
treatment system waste streams. From 2008 to 2009, the site decreased its water usage by 27%, saving 47,000 cubic meters. 
See the comprehensive report online for detailed information about water and wastewater.
2015  goal
implement two projects to help protect vulnerable watersheds or provide communities with enhanced access to clean water.
update
Using tools from the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, World Resources Institute and other organizations,  
and taking into account its own water footprint, Baxter identified and is prioritizing possible locations to support community  
aquifer protection or access to clean water projects. 
The company plans to collaborate with Water Advocates, a non-governmental organization (NGO) that connects companies with 
NGOs and other organizations that have a local presence and focus on water issues. Baxter plans to use input from Water  
Advocates, along with feedback from local Baxter personnel and communities, to propose the locations for two projects to  
the company’s Sustainability Steering Committee and senior management for approval in 2010.   1  These savings represent the total savings attributable to identified projects across the 
company, counted only for the first year the packaging innovation was implemented.
2  Water balances map water use throughout a facility from the incoming water to the final 
treatment step.
3  Water usage from Baxter’s 40 sites with the greatest use, representing 92% of the  
company’s total annual water consumption.
4  Availability of renewable water supplies evaluated using the World Business Council for 
Sustainable Development Global Water Tool. Water-scarce  areas have less than 1,000  
cubic meters of annual renewable water supply per person per year. Water-stressed  areas 
have more than 1,000 cubic meters but less than 1,700 cubic meters. Water-sufficient   
areas have more than 1,700 cubic meters.“ Companies are increasingly looking toward water 
and sanitation programming as both the gravity of 
the issue and the tangible, visible, cost-effective 
results of water initiatives become clearer.” 
  John o ldfield , Executive Vice President, Water AdvocatesBaxter WIll DrIve reDuctIonS In ItS natural reSource uSe
sustainability.baxter.com/EHS  and  sustainability.baxter.com/product_responsibility(priority continued 
from previous page)
WATER USAGE, BY AVAILABILITY3,4 (thousand cubic meters)0200040006000800010000120001400016000Scarce
Stressed
Sufficient
14,000
12,00010,000
8,000
6,000
4,0002,000
0
200
5 2006 2007 2008 2009
1,885
3,943
7,8291,983
3,821
7,3451,974
3,641
7,2852,074
3,532
7,0442,047
3,4906,8
57Scarce 
Stressed
Sufficientpriority
15 Baxter 2009  SuStaInaBIlIty PrIorItIeS rePortBaxter is dedicated to creating products that save and sustain people’s lives worldwide, in a way that minimizes environmental impacts. This requires a holistic  
approach, from the early stages of design and materials selection through product manufacture, transport, and ultimately, end-of-life.Baxter WIll DrIve enhanceD ProDuct S teW arDShIP
progress
2015  goal
incorporate the following elements as appropriate into Baxter’s product stewardship programs: sustainable design, 
takeback and recycling of Baxter’s products. 
update
Baxter applies its Product Sustainability Review (PSR) assessment during the early stages of product development on all  
medical devices, from intravenous (IV) solution containers to dialysis machines. The company uses PSR results to help  
establish product requirements and minimize potential health and environmental impacts. In 2010, Baxter will expand use of 
PSR into product development in its BioScience business. 
In 2009, Baxter completed several externally verified life cycle assessments demonstrating the significant environmental  
benefits of FlEXBUMIN [Albumin (Human)] – the first and only human albumin1 solution in a flexible, plastic container – 
compared to a similar product in a glass bottle. The FlEXBUMIN container system has a 55-77% smaller carbon footprint, 
depending on product size and geography (see case study in the comprehensive report online).  
In 2009, Baxter continued its participation in the Hospital Plastics Recycling Council. The council, a cooperative alliance of  
healthcare businesses, partnered with the Cleveland Clinic in Ohio, United States, to initiate a pilot to collect and recycle pre-operative 
plastics (such as pour bottles and blue wrap2). Successful preliminary results have generated interest for expansion to other cities. 
Baxter also is working with other partners in waste management and recycling to test the economic and logistical feasibility of more 
efficient management of wastes generated from Baxter IV products. Possibilities include creating products from recycled materials 
that can be reused in the medical supply chain, such as plastic pallets made from mixed plastic IV bags or packaging.
2015  goal
identify new opportunities to replace, reduce and refine ( 3rs) the use of animal testing.
update
Baxter is committed to using and developing alternative protocols, methodologies and models that eliminate the use of or 
reduce the number of animals required for research and testing. During 2009, Baxter’s Chief Scientific Officer established the 
company’s Global Animal Welfare Committee. The committee, composed of veterinary professionals from the company’s 
research and development organization, oversees all aspects of Baxter’s animal use programs.
The committee’s focus includes the following: further developing and implementing programs that will optimize animal welfare and 
adhere to Baxter’s 3R and other animal use initiatives; refining universal principles of animal care and welfare across all Baxter 
animal research sites and external collaborators; providing regular review of Baxter’s animal welfare program, policies, standards 
and best practices and updates to internal education and training programs; and setting strategic direction for future activities.
learn more about Baxter’s initiatives and innovations that support the company’s animal welfare efforts in the comprehensive 
report online.1  Albumin is an essential protein found in human plasma.
2  The polypropylene sheeting used to wrap surgical supplies before sterilization to create  
a sterile barrier.
more onlIne  }   sustainability.baxter.com/product_responsibility
Senior Laboratory Specialist Isabelle Leglise of Baxter’s research and 
development facility in Nivelles, Belgium, examines the seals on Baxter’s 
triple-chamber container, used to provide IV nutrition to patients who 
cannot receive adequate nutrition through other means.Children from an impoverished section of India receive  
healthcare education thanks to the Chronic Care 
Foundation, recipient of a grant from The Baxter 
International Foundation. Foundation grants focus on  
programs that increase access to healthcare, particularly 
for the disadvantaged and underserved. As a global healthcare company  
focused on innovation, Baxter 
embraces the opportunity to 
help solve the world’s greatest  
healthcare challenges. Key 
focus areas include increasing 
access to healthcare for those 
in need as well as promoting 
math and science education  
to better prepare the next  
generation of innovators.  Our World17 Baxter 2009  SuStaInaBIlIty PrIorItIeS rePort more onlIne  }   sustainability.baxter.com/community_support
Baxter WIll StrenGthen acceSS to healthcare throuGh ProDuct  
DeveloPment anD Strate GIc ProDuct DonatIonS1
Many factors prevent people from receiving healthcare, including poor infrastructure, political instability, lack of education, poverty, restrictive regulatory frameworks, 
and inadequate availability and affordability of medical products. Baxter is committed to expanding access to healthcare globally, through product and business model 
innovation, as well as cash and product donations.
As part of Baxter’s Making a Meaningful Difference campaign in 2009, 
employee volunteers in India coordinated a series of activities for  
underprivileged children, including a free health checkup.priority
progress
2010  goal
By 2010, assess existing products for relevance to the “base of the pyramid” (developing economies) and identify  
high-impact, economically viable product opportunities.
update
While access to healthcare remains a challenge worldwide, companies have an opportunity to develop and deliver healthcare 
solutions specifically for those at the “base of the pyramid” (BoP), the approximately 4 billion people who live on less than  
$1,500 annually and have limited access to the healthcare market. 
Baxter already has infrastructure and marketing and product-development channels in place where many BoP inhabitants live.  
In 2009, Baxter determined that it is currently doing business in 84 of 151 countries (56%) listed as emerging and developing 
economies by the International Monetary Fund (from 2008 data). Thus the company plans to draw heavily on its experience in 
emerging markets to develop its BoP strategy. 
Baxter has created a network of marketing leads in each of its businesses to increase the cohesiveness of long-range product 
planning companywide and align with potential new business models to serve these populations. Next steps include reconciling 
regional business goals with BoP needs and identifying the optimal business model to meet those needs. As an ongoing part of 
Baxter’s portfolio review process, the company will continue to determine strategic opportunities to enhance its BoP offerings.
2015  goal
increase r&D investment from 2008 to improve access to healthcare for the “base of the pyramid.” 
update
Baxter assessed research and development (R&D) investment levels in the BoP area in 2009, helping the company set goals  
and envision future BoP models. During the year, Baxter formalized its collaboration with Stu Hart, Ph.D., Samuel C. Johnson 
Chair in Sustainable Global Enterprise and Professor of Management at the Cornell University Johnson School of Management, 
and Enterprise for a Sustainable World (ESW) to build a process to investigate BoP commercial and R&D investment opportunities. 
In 2009, Baxter took three main steps to advance its BoP initiative:
Created a structure    Hosted a session for Baxter leaders with Dr. Hart and ESW to discuss a long-term BoP approach;  
assigned a strategy and planning manager; and established a BoP Protocol leadership Team, as well as a project team  
to launch Baxter’s efforts.
Communicated BoP as a strategic initiative   Engaged the Baxter Innovation Council to identify existing and new product  
opportunities; sought ongoing senior management support; and worked with functional experts to ensure project success. 
Identified a region to start   Based on analysis, identified latin America as the pilot location for Baxter’s BoP initiatives.(priority continued 
on following page)
PHASES OF B oP PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT
1      Establish Program Structure and Initiate Planning
 3      Launch Pilot2      Co-Create Business Plan with Local Communities
4      Evolve Sustainable Business Model for Growth
¹  In 2009, Baxter discontinued its previously stated goal to “Establish a council to assess 
U.S. philanthropic giving, and develop and implement a strategy to align efforts with public 
policy priorities to enhance healthcare. By 2010, assess a percentage of Baxter’s total giving 
to healthcare programs.” After creating a council to assess U.S. philanthropic giving,  
the council re-affirmed Baxter’s position that local and business-level decision-making 
most effectively address local community needs.18 Baxter 2009  SuStaInaBIlIty PrIorItIeS rePort more onlIne  }  Baxter WIll StrenGthen acceSS to healthcare throuGh ProDuct  
DeveloPment anD Strate GIc ProDuct DonatIonS(priority continued 
from previous page)
progress
2015  goal
Work with donor partners to develop and implement a strategic product donation plan beginning in 2010 that  
include s: being the first on the scene following disasters and tragedies, contributing most needed products to  
stabilize supply, and contributing most needed products in least developed and developing econ omies. 
update
In 2009, Baxter continued its donor partnerships with AmeriCares and Direct Relief International. The company’s Global  
Community Relations team worked with these organizations to determine most-needed products including Medication  
Delivery items critical for rehydration and injectables for disease prevention. Baxter hemophilia products and kidney  
dialysis solutions were also requested to ensure continuity of care to patient groups in regions that lack reliable healthcare 
delivery systems. In turn, Baxter identified processes to support such efforts going forward. 
sustainability.baxter.com/community_supportcollaborating on Disaster r elief
Baxter and The Baxter International Foundation committed more 
than $2.5 million to support disaster relief efforts in response 
to the devastating earthquake in Haiti in January 2010.  
As a result of work completed in 2009, Baxter products were 
in place at the AmeriCares warehouses when the earthquake  
struck. This builds on more than 20 years that AmeriCares 
and Baxter have worked together to deliver medical therapie s 
to those in need. 
Due to Baxter’s work with Direct Relief International, the first 
victims brought to St. Damien Hospital in Haiti following the 
earthquake were treated with preparedness packs containing 
Baxter products as well as those from 11 other organizations. 
Product Donations
Cash Contributions1
Product & Cash Contributions1OVERVIEW OF BAXTER GLOBAL COMMUNITY SUPPORT IN 2009
1 Includes contributions from Baxter and The Baxter International Foundation.
Critical intravenous solutions were among the products Baxter donated 
to support disaster relief efforts in Haiti following a devastating 
earthquake in January 2010.
Photo courtesy of AmeriCares.priority
19 Baxter 2009  SuStaInaBIlIty PrIorItIeS rePortBaxter WIll S trenGthen the comP any’S commItment to eDucatIon,  
eSPecIally math anD ScIence
Global leaders have identified science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) education as one of the highest priorities for youth today. In 2008, Baxter made a 
commitment to ensure future generations are inspired by math and science by creating local initiatives that enhance existing education programs with professional 
development and real-world experience.  
Damani Bolden, student at Lindblom Math and Science Academy in 
Chicago, Illinois, United States, discusses a prototype kidney dialysis 
machine for juvenile patients, developed by students as part of a 
problem-based learning project hosted by Baxter.  
progress
2015  goal
facilitate learning of math and science through biotechnology education for Chicago Public schools teachers and students,  
and partner with other educational organizations to provide similar opportunities in other locations.
update
In 2008, Baxter launched Science@Work: Expanding Minds with Real-World Science, a multiyear commitment to Chicago  
Public Schools (CPS). The largest corporate donation to science education in CPS history, Science@Work provides biotechnology 
professional development for teachers and hands-on science experiences for students. In the 2008-2009 school year, the  
program reached more than 24,000 students and 352 teachers in 109 schools. Baxter hosted 24 experiences for teachers  
and students including lab tours, lectures, career days, and a problem-based learning project in which students created a  
prototype dialysis machine to meet the needs of juvenile kidney-disease patients. In October 2009, CPS named Baxter an  
Outstanding Partner for its contribution to science education. Baxter continues to evolve the program with employee  
engagement opportunities focused on supporting teachers and students near the company’s headquarters in Chicago,  
Illinois, United States, which has the third largest school district in the country. 
more onlIne  }   sustainability.baxter.com/community_supportother education Initiatives
Since the 1970s in Illinois, United States, Baxter has supported Junior Achievement (JA),  
a global organization that teaches students the fundamentals of the free market and entrepre -
neurism. In 2009, Baxter increased participation in JA by 68% with 116 volunteers contributing 
more than 1,600 hours in 130 classrooms across five schools. Baxter is expanding its Northern 
Illinois participation another 50% through 2010 to reach nearly 6,000 students. Fifty employees 
in Canada, China, Ireland and throughout Latin America contributed more than 450 hours in 2009.
In 1992, Baxter became a founding member of U.S. FIRST (For Inspiration and Recognition  
of Science and Technology) Robotics, which engages students in mentor-based programs 
that build science, engineering and technology skills. In 2009, Baxter provided financial  
support to produce FIRST’s Midwest Regional Championship, and sponsored a local team 
that has worked with the company’s Mountain Home, Arkansas, United States, facility  
engineers for 14 years. 
In 2009, Baxter launched Education Advantage, a scholarship program for people with  
hemophilia A. The program provides financial aid and resources to help hemophilia patients 
with education planning, career development, community involvement and lifestyle management.  
Education Advantage is administered independently by Scholarship America.Guide to the Comprehensive Baxter 2009 Sustainability Report  Online
This chart illustrates the wide range of content in the comprehensive online version of the Baxter 2009 Sustainability Report . The online version includes the  
information about progress against Baxter’s sustainability priorities highlighted in this print report, expanded detail and performance information about these and  
other areas of sustainability, and numerous case studies illustrating examples of strong performance. The online report is available at sustainability.baxter.com.
SuStaInaBIlIty at Baxter comP any ProFIleGovernance, ethIcS  
anD comPlIanceemPloyeeS envIronment, health anD S aFety
Chairman and Ceo Letter
Baxter’s Approach
Priorities and Goals
stakeholder engagement
Affiliations and Membership s
innovation
Awards and Honors 
Milestones
talent Management 
sustainability education
Compensation and Benefits
Measuring Company Culture 
Global inclusion and Diversity
Work/LifeeHs Program 
Policy and Vision  
Program Governance  
EHS 2010 Goals  
EHS Management Systems 
EHS Audits 
caSe S tuDIeS
Baxter European Facilities 
Collaborate to Reduce  
Water and Energy Use
Waste Reduction at  
Marion, North Carolina, 
United States, Site
Thousand Oaks, California, 
United States, Facility Applies  
Innovative Technology to 
Conserve Energy 
Corporate Governance   
ethics and Compliance
Code of Conduct  
Structure and Programs  
Guidance and Compliance  
Baxter World  
Environment Week
Baxter Builds Relationship 
with Howard University to 
Attract Diverse TalentcaSe S tuDIeSBaxter Will Promote  
Ethical Conduct and Legal 
CompliancePrIorIty
Baxter Chief Scientific  
Officer Discusses  
New Science and  
Technology Committee  
of Baxter’s Board of  
Directors
Enhancing Baxter’s  
Ethics and Compliance 
Program in ChinacaSe S tuDIeSBaxter Will Promote an 
Inclusive and Diverse 
WorkplacePrIorIty
20 Baxter 2009  SuStaInaBIlIty PrIorItIeS rePort more onlIne  }  sustainability.baxter.com2009 environmental  
Performance 
Performance At-a-Glance  
Air Emissions  
Biodiversity  
Eco-Efficiency/
Raw Materials Use  
Energy  
GHG Emissions and  
Climate Change
Waste
Water and Wastewater 
Baxter Will Drive Reductions 
in its Carbon FootprintPrIorIty
Baxter Will Drive Reductions
in its Natural Resource UsePrIorIty
Baxter Will Promote a Safe 
and Healthy WorkplacePrIorItyHealth and safety  
2009 Performance  
Programs and InitiativesCompliance 
Environmental  
Health and Safety
2009 environmental  
financial statementProDuct reSPonSIBIlIty SuPPly chaIn communIty SuPPort economIc ImP actS PuBlIc PolIcySuStaInaBIlIty  
rePortInG
Managing supplier  
Performance    
Global Green 
supply ChainAccess to Healthcare     
Product Development
Base of the Pyramid
Philanthropic Giving
Product Donations
The Baxter International 
Foundation
caSe S tuDIeS
Project HOPE
Making a Meaningful  
DifferenceDirect impacts     
indirect impacts
Business Value
Critical Community needs
employee involvement2009 Political  
Contributions reportexternal reporting 
standards     
feedback on 20 08 report
Assurance  
Bureau Veritas Verification  
Opinion 
Global reporting  
initiative index
Baxter Will Strengthen 
Access to Healthcare 
through Product  
Development and Strategic 
Product DonationsPrIorItyQuality
safety   
r&D and Desig n  
Product Sustainability Review  
Bioethics  
Animal Welfare  
Clinical Trials 
Materials use
Manufacturing
Product t ransport 
Packaging
Product use
Product end-of-Life
Addressing a Rare  
Disorder: Baby Botulism
FLEXBUMIN Life Cycle  
Assessment
Materials RestrictionscaSe S tuDIeSEngaging Suppliers to  
Reduce Environmental 
ImpactcaSe S tuDIeSNothing has come to the attention of Bureau Veritas to indicate that the reviewed statements marked 
with this symbol are inaccurate or that the information is not fairly stated. See page 2 for more detail.
Baxter Will Strengthen the  
Company’s Commitment  
to Education, Especially  
Math and SciencePrIorIty
21 Baxter 2009  SuStaInaBIlIty PrIorItIeS rePort more onlIne  }   sustainability.baxter.comBureau Veritas has determined that sections marked with this symbol are accurate, reliable and 
free from material mistake or misstatement. See page 2 for more detail.
Baxter Will Drive Enhanced 
Product StewardshipPrIorIty1
Baxter Will Drive a Green 
Supply ChainPrIorIty
supplier Diversity
Customers
1  The first goal for this priority was externally 
verified. See page 15 for detail. 
Baxter Summary Data Table 2005_2009
SECTION AND INDICATOR 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
COMPANY PROFILE   
NET SALES (dollars in millions) $9,849 $10,378 $11,263 $12,348    $12,562
NET INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO BAXTER (dollars in millions)  956 1,397 1,707 2,014     2,205
BAXTER SHARE PRICE (in dollars; end of stated year) 37.65 46.39 58.05 53.59 58.68
R&D EXPENDITURES (dollars in millions) 533 614 760 868  917
GOVERNANCE, ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE
ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE HELPLINE AND COIC¹ 
INQUIRIES (total)  274 341 234 273 322
EMPLOYEES
BAXTER GLOBAL WORKFORCE 46,900 47,600 46,500 48,500   49,700
Board and Executive Leadership Diversity2 
ETHNIC (% non-white of total) 
 Board of Directors 8.3% 8.3% 7.7% 7.7% 7.7%
 Executive Leadership 16.7% 13.3% 13.3% 13.3%    14.3%
GENDER (% female of total)
 Board of Directors 16.7% 16.7% 15.4% 15.4%   15.4%
 Executive Leadership 25.0% 33.3% 33.3% 33.3%  28.6%
Gender Diversity at Baxter (% female globally)3 
VICE PRESIDENT AND ABOVE 19.6% 19.0% 17.7% 18.5% 19.2%
SUPERVISOR/DIRECTOR 38.2% 39.1% 47.7% 48.1%  48.5%
NON-MANAGER 57.0% 56.5% 56.4% 56.3% 55.8%
OVERALL 54.1% 53.7% 52.7% 52.8%  52.5%
ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY
Environment (figures in absolute terms, except when stated otherwise)4 
PROCESS-RELATED CFC AND TOXIC AIR EMISSIONS 
 Metric Tons  31.2 33.3 31.1     20.8 18.7
 Kg per Million Dollars of Sales 3.2 3.2 2.8 1.7 1.5
SOx EMISSIONS  Metric Tons 616 619 629 610 573
 Kg per Million Dollars of Sales 63 60 56 49 46
NOx EMISSIONS 
 Metric Tons 475 466 463 457 446
 Kg per Million Dollars of Sales 48 45 41 37 36
ENERGY USAGE FROM BAXTER OPERATIONS 
 Trillions of Joules  8,473 8,455 8,484 8,606 8,572
 Billions of Joules per Million Dollars of Sales 860 815 753 695 682
NET GHG EMISSIONS FROM BAXTER OPERATIONS
5 
 Thousand Metric Tons CO2e  793 759 753 763 751
 Metric Tons CO2e per Million Dollars of Sales 81 73 67 62 60
NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE 
 Metric Tons 53,000 56,000 56,000 57,000 55,000
 Metric Tons per Million Dollars of Sales  5.38 5.40 4.97 4.60 4.38SECTION AND INDICATOR 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY (CONTINUED)
Environment (continued)  
REGULATED WASTE 
 Metric Tons 4,150 4,090 5,130 5,820    6,290
 Metric Tons per Million Dollars of Sales 0.42 0.39 0.46 0.47 0.50
WATER USAGE 
 Thousand Cubic Meters 14,814 14,297 13,948 13,654 13,437
 Thousand Cubic Meters per Million Dollars of Sales 1.50 1.38 1.24 1.10 1.07
BOD56 (biochemical oxygen demand) DISCHARGES (metric tons)  26 26 28 28 31
COD6  (chemical oxygen demand) DISCHARGES (metric tons) 111 119 134 132 102
TSS6 (total suspended solids) DISCHARGES (metric tons) 45 49 53 48 31
ENVIRONMENTAL NOTICES OF VIOLATION (NOVs) 17 17 10 10 9
ENVIRONMENTAL FINES PAID (in dollars) $11,825 $1,500 $4,591 $0  $800
2009 Environmental Financial Statement  
TOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL COSTS (dollars in millions) $21.2 $22.3 $24.6 $25.8 $27.2
TOTAL ESTIMATED ENVIRONMENTAL INCOME, SAVINGS  
AND COST AVOIDANCE IN STATED YEAR (dollars in millions )  90.1 90.3 87.2 120.7 107.8
Occupational Health and Safety  
CASES WITH DAYS LOST RATE7,8  0.30 0.31 0.25 0.19 0.15
DAYS LOST RATE7,8   7.08 6.94 5.45 4.23  4.16
RESTRICTED DAYS RATE7,8  22.80 16.80 15.72 19.46 12.68
RECORDABLE CASE RATE7,8  1.52 1.35 1.41 1.29  1.07
EMPLOYEE/CONTRACTOR SERIOUS INCIDENTS (total number)9   9/0 4/0 12/1 7/2    12/210
EMPLOYEE/CONTRACTOR FATALITIES (total number) 2/2 0/1 0/0 0/1 0/010
WORLDWIDE WORKERS’ COMPENSATION ESTIMATE 
(dollars in millions)11 $20.6 $15.2 $14.9 $14.4  $15.9
HEALTH AND SAFETY CITATIONS SETTLED  1 3 2 2 6
HEALTH AND SAFETY FINES PAID (in dollars) $0 $10,74012 $0 $45,00013  $1,733
SUPPLY CHAIN
PAYMENTS TO SUPPLIERS (approximate, dollars in millions)  $4,000 $4,100 $4,100 $4,400  $4,400
Supplier Diversity14 
PAYMENTS TO SMALL BUSINESSES (dollars in millions) $454 $504 $399 $457  $484
PAYMENTS TO MINORITY-OWNED BUSINESSES   
(dollars in millions) 36 40 23 24 20
PAYMENTS TO WOMEN-OWNED BUSINESSES  
(dollars in millions) 68 95 95 88 80
COMMUNITY SUPPORT
PRODUCT DONATIONS (dollars in millions)15 $17.82 $14.85 $31.09 $10.86  $18.94
CASH DONATIONS (dollars in millions)16 17.60 20.72 23.51 32.93 33.96
¹ COIC stands for Certificate of Integrity and Compliance.   ²Executive Leadership figures include Operations Committee members and regional presidents.   ³2009 figures do not include Baxter Credit Union employees, which represented approximately 0.1% of the total population.   4Historic data may differ from previously reported data as a result of corrections as well as revisions due to acquisitions 
and divestitures.   5Net greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from Baxter operations include emissions associated with facility energy use (both from fuel burned on site and purchased electricity), company-managed sales and distribution fleet vehicles, other vehicles and refrigerant losses. Net emissions from operations also take into account the purchase of renewable energy, carbon credits and carbon 
offsets. An independent entity engaged by the Chicago Climate Exchange (CCX) verified Baxter’s direct GHG emissions from operations in Canada, Mexico, Puerto Rico and the United States. A consultant for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Climate Leaders program reviewed Baxter’s direct and indirect GHG emissions from operations in the United States and Puerto Rico.   6Total water pollutant 
levels for treated wastewater discharging directly into waterways. Data do not include two facilities that operate zero-discharge systems in accordance with local regulatory requirements. Before 2006, actual performance data for some sites were not available. In those cases, Baxter developed estimates based on performance at similar facilities.   7All rates based on 100 full-time employees working one 
year, which equals a total of 200,000 work hours. For tracking purposes, Baxter applies U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration recordkeeping practices worldwide. Thus, in cases where an injury occurs and there are conflicting medical opinions as to the number of days away and/or restricted days that should be recorded, Baxter records on the basis of the most authoritative physician’s 
opinion.  8Cases with days lost : work-related injuries or illnesses that cause an employee to lose at least one full day after the date of the incident. Days lost : number of days lost recommended by the most authoritative physician’s opinion (including weekends and holidays) due to a work-related injury or illness. Restricted days : number of days recommended by the most authoritative physician’s opinion 
that an employee or supervised contractor is unable to work full duty (including weekends and holidays) due to a work-related injury or illness. Baxter does not count the date of injury and date of return to full duty as restricted days. Recordable cases:  work-related injuries or illnesses requiring medical attention beyond first-aid, including cases with days lost.   9Serious workplace incident cases are 
those that result in an employee or contractor being hospitalized overnight, sustaining an amputation or dying.   10In November 2009, a contractor died while performing on-site dredging of a pond at Baxter’s Deerfield, Illinois, United States, headquarters. The Lake County medical examiner determined that the individual died of natural causes, and that the death was not work-related. It therefore is 
not included in this data.   11Workers’ compensation costs are the medical expenses due to a work-related injury or illness and a portion of the employee’s salary while disabled. Exact costs worldwide are difficult to obtain due to international privacy laws, so Baxter extrapolates global figures based on data from the United States.   12The data reported includes a fine of $7,500 that Baxter paid in 
connection with a U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) matter at its Beltsville, Maryland, United States, facility.   13 The data reported includes a fine of $30,000 that Baxter paid in connection with a U.S. FAA matter at its Tampa, Florida, United States, facility.   14 Data include United States and Puerto Rico, with a fiscal year basis of October 1 through September 30. Accounts payable data are 
sent to a third party, which categorizes spending. Other categories in total include veteran-owned, service-disabled veteran-owned, small disadvantaged and HUBZone-certified businesses.   15Data include value of product donations calculated using a combination of average wholesale price and average sale price. See Baxter and The Baxter International Foundation Charitable Giving table in the 
comprehensive report online for detail. Variations in Baxter's annual product donations are due to fluctuations in community needs, the regulatory environment, manufacturing processes and marketing. The company identifies opportunities to donate and responds to community requests as appropriate.   16Data include contributions from Baxter and The Baxter International Foundation.Please see relevant sections in the comprehensive report online at 
sustainability.baxter.com for more extensive performance data and graphs. 
Home dialysis patient Elmer Ordoñez lives in a remote region of Colombia, 
requiring Baxter to deliver his dialysis solutions by mule. Baxter is the world’s 
leading provider of home dialysis products for people with end-stage kidney 
disease, with more than 80% of this business outside the United States.aBout thIS rePort
This report is intended for global use. Please consult the appropriate country-specific Baxter website for more information•	 . 
Some statements in the Company Profile about products or procedures may differ from the licensed indications in specific 
countries. Therefore, always consult the country-specific summary of product characteristics (SPC), package leaflets or 
instructions for use. For more information, please contact a local Baxter representative.
The performance data in this report are from calendar year 2009 unless stated otherwise. Some program descriptions  •	
and examples include information from 2010.
This report covers Baxter’s global operations, including subsidiaries, unless otherwise noted. Environmental, health  •	
and safety data include joint ventures where Baxter has a controlling interest.
All currency in this report is in U.S. dollars unless stated otherwise.•	
The comprehensive report online includes an index of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) contents.•	
For more information about this report, please contact the Center for One Baxter at 1-800-422-9837 or 1-847-948-4770,  •	
or by e-mail at onebaxter@baxter.com.
Feedback
Stakeholder feedback is an important source of ideas for continual improvement of Baxter’s sustainability programs  
and annual reporting. We encourage readers to provide comments and suggestions through our online survey at:   
sustainability.baxter.com/survey.
Baxter is proud to be recognized by or affiliated with many sustainability-related organizations and programs, including:
Corporate Citizens
2010100CRO’s         Best 
   www.thee
cro.com
The matters discussed in this Baxter 2009 Sustainability Priorities Report  that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements, 
including statements with respect to future company compliance and performance. These statements involve numerous risks and 
uncertainties. Many factors could affect the company’s actual results, causing results to differ, possibly materially, from those expressed 
in the forward-looking statements. These factors include actions of regulatory bodies and other governmental authorities including the 
U.S. Food and Drug Administration; the effect of economic conditions; technological developments in the healthcare field; advances in 
environmental protection processes; and other factors more completely described in Baxter’s Annual Report on Form 10-K and other 
filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which are available on the company’s website at www.baxter.com. The 
company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
References in this report to Baxter are intended to refer collectively to Baxter International Inc. and its U.S. and international subsidiaries.
Baxter is a trademark of Baxter International Inc.
All products or trademarks appearing herein are the property of their respective owners.
© Baxter International Inc., 2010.  All rights reserved.
This report was printed using solvent-free UV inks on paper that was 
processed chlorine free, manufactured using biogas energy, made 
from 100% post-consumer waste fiber, and certified to the responsible 
forest management standards of the Forest Stewardship Council. The 
electricity used to print this report was 100% offset with renewable 
energy credits (RECs) generated from wind power in the United States . 
Baxter International Inc.
One Baxter Parkway
Deerfield, Illinois 60015
www.baxter.com
Cover photo:
Baxter products provide life-saving and 
life-sustaining therapies for patients in 
more than 100 countries. To reach home 
dialysis patients in remote locations, 
the company sometimes must employ 
unconventional means of transport, such 
as this delivery of dialysis solutions by 
mule in a region of Colombia.
