 
Sustainability  
at Baxter   
 
http://sustainability -baxter.intouch -dev.com/sustainability/chairman -ceo-letter.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rig hts Reserved.   
From the Chairman and CEO  
 
At Baxter, sustainability is our approach to including our social, economic and environmental responsibilities 
among the company's business priorities. These  efforts align with and support our mission of saving and 
sustaining lives. Each year, we reaffirm our commitment to sustainability through our annual sustainability 
report. And, each year, we strive to make our reporting more robust.  
As a global healthcar e company, Baxter takes seriously the health of the planet. It is within this context that  
we look at our business and ask ourselves how Baxter can use its assets, expertise and influence to best 
contribute to a more sustainable world.  
One thing we have d one is align our business and sustainability strategies. Baxter's executive -level 
Sustainability Steering Committee, established in 2006, leads the company's efforts to integrate sustainability 
into our long -term strategic planning as well as our daily act ivities. Since its inception, this group has made 
tremendous progress in assessing our global sustainability challenges and opportunities, establishing and 
tracking progress against Baxter's sustainability priorities and goals, and elevating accountability  for 
sustainability to the highest levels of management.  
Increasingly we are integrating sustainability considerations into our product development, from product 
planning throughout the product life cycle. We are implementing green principles into our manu facturing  
 
 Robert L. Parkinson, Jr.  
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer .  
 
http://sustainability -baxter.intouch -dev.com/sustainability/chairman -ceo-letter.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rig hts Reserved.  and other operations. We are using our global scope and industry 
leadership to help increase access to healthcare in developing 
countries, where people with life -threatening conditions are often 
untreated or undertreated. We adhere to the hig hest standards of ethics 
and compliance wherever we do business, embrace an inclusive culture 
and diverse workforce, and contribute in other ways to the health and 
welfare of people in need in communities worldwide.  
Baxter operates in an increasingly chall enging business environment, 
which has motivated us to intensify our efforts to become more 
innovative, productive and efficient. Sustained financial strength is 
critical to our ability to achieve both our business and sustainability 
goals, and to fund inn ovation, which is the real key to creating  
solutions for today's and tomorrow's challenges.  
Baxter is in a unique position to make an impact due to the industry  
we are in, our strong global brand and reputation, the sustainability 
progress we have made a nd the experience we continue to gain. While 
we have made great strides in many areas of sustainability, we clearly 
need to improve in others. I look forward to reporting further progress  
in next year's sustainability report.  
Robert L. Parkinson, Jr.   
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  
June 2011  
 
 
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/company -profile/index.html  
© Copyright 2 011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Company Profile  
Baxter International Inc., through its subsidiaries, develops, 
manufactures and markets products that save and  sustain 
the lives of people with hemophilia, immune disorders, 
infectious diseases, kidney disease, trauma, and other 
chronic and acute medical conditions. As a global, 
diversified healthcare company, Baxter applies a  
unique combination of expertise in m edical devices, 
pharmaceuticals and biotechnology to create products  
that advance patient care worldwide. These products are 
used by hospitals, kidney dialysis centers, nursing homes, 
rehabilitation centers, doctors' offices, clinical and medical 
research  laboratories, and by patients at home under 
physician supervision.   
 
Baxter manufactures products in 27 countries and sells them in more than 100, with approximately 60% of its 
sales generated outside the United States. The company has its own direct sal es force and also sells products 
to and through independent distributors, drug wholesalers and specialty pharmacy or homecare companies.  
In 2010, Baxter's global sales totaled approximately $12.8 billion. At year -end 2010, Baxter employed 
approximately 48 ,000 people worldwide.  
 
Baxter's worldwide headquarters in Deerfield, Illinois, 
United States.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/company -profile/index.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
 
Baxter operates in two business segments1: 
The BioScience  business is a leading manufacturer of recombinant and plasma -based proteins to treat 
hemophilia and other bleeding disorders. The business also produces plasma -based ther apies to treat  
immune deficiencies, alpha -1 antitrypsin deficiency, burns and shock, and other chronic and acute blood -
related conditions; products for regenerative medicine, such as biologics that stop bleeding and seal wounds  
in surgery; and select vac cines.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/company -profile/index.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  The Medical Products  business manufactures products used in the delivery of fluids and drugs to patients. 
These include intravenous (IV) solutions and administration sets, premixed drugs and drug -reconstitution 
systems, IV nutrition products, infusi on pumps, and inhalation anesthetics. The business also provides 
products and services related to pharmacy compounding, drug formulation and packaging technologies.  
In addition, the business is a leading provider of products and services for peritoneal di alysis (PD), a  
home -based therapy for people with end -stage kidney disease, and other products used in dialysis therapy.  
While no single company competes with Baxter in all of its businesses, Baxter faces competition in each of its 
segments from internati onal and domestic healthcare companies of all sizes. Consolidation in the company's 
customer base and by its competitors, along with global efforts toward healthcare cost containment, continue 
to exert pricing and market share pressures worldwide. Sales of  Baxter's products also are dependent, in part, 
on the availability of reimbursement by government payers as well as private insurers.  
Investment in research and development (R&D) is essential to Baxter's future growth and its ability to remain 
competitive  in all of its businesses. The company's R&D spending in 2010 was $915 million.  
Baxter's products, facilities and operations are subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
(FDA) and other regulatory authorities worldwide. These agencies  administer requirements covering the 
testing, safety, efficacy, manufacturing, labeling, promotion and advertising, distribution and post -market 
surveillance of Baxter's products. See the Safety section  for more information about complying with 
government  regulations.  
  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/company -profile/index.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  
 
1 Prior to January 1, 2011, Baxter operated in three reportable segments. In October 2010, the company announced the combination of its Medication Delivery 
and Renal businesses into a single global business, Medical Products. Effective Ja nuary 1, 2011, the company changed its segment presentation to reflect this 
new structure.  
 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/company -profile/innovation.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Innovation  
Baxter has a rich history of medical firsts. The company produced the first commercially manufactured 
intravenous (IV) solutions, the first commercia l kidney dialysis machine, the first concentrated clotting  
factor to treat hemophilia, and many other breakthroughs. More recent firsts include the first recombinant  
factor VIII for hemophilia produced without any blood additives, and the first cell cult ure-derived pandemic  
flu vaccine.  
See the Milestones page for  more information about Baxter's history of innovation.  
Innovation is the driving force behind Baxter's success. Baxter's businesses leverage expertise in medical 
plastics, biologics, solutions,  sterilization and other scientific disciplines to create a range of life -saving and  
life-sustaining products. The company is a leader in developing recombinant and plasma -derived therapeutic 
proteins, IV and dialysis solutions, parenteral nutrition produ cts, drug packaging and delivery systems, and 
other products and technologies.  
Baxter continues to invest in research and development (R&D) to bring new and improved products  
and therapies to market. Principal R&D focus areas include recombinant and plasm a-based therapeutics, 
vaccines, regenerative medicine, kidney dialysis, small molecule drugs, enhanced packaging systems for 
medication delivery, drug formulation technologies and pharmacy compounding.  
Baxter researchers perform R&D activities around the w orld, including at the company's R&D facilities  
in Austria, Belgium, Japan and the United States. Baxter supplements its own R&D efforts by acquiring 
complementary technologies and entering into R&D partnerships with third parties. Current partnerships  
aim at developing longer -acting forms of clotting factor to treat hemophilia, a home hemodialysis platform  
for patients with end -stage kidney disease, a subcutaneous alternative to IV administration for various drugs 
and fluids, and technologies to regener ate skin and bone.  
In 2010, Baxter's R&D spending was $915 million.  
R&D Expenditures (Dollars in Millions)  
2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  
$614  $760  $868  $917  $915  
 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/baxters -approach.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Baxter's Approach  
How nations, companies and individuals respond to global sustainability c hallenges such as global climate 
change, scarcity of natural resources, corruption and unequal access to healthcare and educational 
opportunities will profoundly impact all life in the 21st century and beyond. Stakeholders will judge Baxter's 
performance i ncreasingly by how the company contributes to addressing these global challenges, within its 
ability, in a responsible and timely manner. Baxter’s actions demonstrate the company’s leadership, values  
and commitment, and contribute to the company’s legacy.  
Baxter views sustainability as a long -term strategic approach to including social, economic and environmental 
considerations and opportunities to achieve both business objectives and contribute to a more sustainable 
world. Stakeholders expect such an appr oach and contribution from sustainability leaders. The company's 
sustainability programs and performance support Baxter's mission to apply innovative science in the 
development of medical products and specialty therapies that save and sustain patients' liv es. 
Sustainability is inherently broad. Baxter's efforts cover a wide range of areas, as reflected by the  
company's sustainability priorities and the structure and contents of this report:  
• Sustainability at Baxter  - Using financial resources wisely to ben efit company stakeholders  
and address key sustainability issues;  
• Governance, Ethics and Compliance  - Operating in a sound and ethical manner and complying  
with the law wherever Baxter operates; promoting ethical sales and marketing practices globally;  
• Employees  - Providing a rewarding, diverse, and inclusive workplace for employees;  
• Environment, Health and Safety  - Continually improving the company's environmental performance, 
capitalizing on related financial benefits, and ensuring a safe and healthy wor kplace;  
• Product Responsibility  - Ensuring product quality and patient safety, and improving the sustainability 
performance of Baxter's products and packaging throughout the life cycle;  
• Supply Chain  - Working with suppliers to improve their social and envir onmental performance and working 
with vendors to reduce the environmental footprint of product delivery to Baxter customers;  
• Community Support  - Expanding access to healthcare, including for people at the "Base of the Pyramid"1 
and for those impacted by na tural disasters; contributing to communities in need worldwide, with a focus  
on education and the environment; and supporting employee volunteerism and giving;  
• Public Policy  - Working with lawmakers, governments and policymakers worldwide to improve patie nt 
access to critical therapies and address other key issues.  
 
Complementing these broad areas, Baxter also recognizes the importance of having clear priorities to focus  
 its efforts and direct its initiatives. The company has nine sustainability prioritie s and corresponding goals for 
2015, divided into three broad categories: Our People, Our Operations and Products, and Our World.  
See Baxter's Sustainability Priorities and Goals for details.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/ba xters -approach.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Managing Sustainability  
Baxter's executive -level Sustainability  Steering Committee leads the company's efforts to accelerate  
and integrate sustainability into its current activities and long -term strategic planning process.  
The committee's role is to:  
• Assess global challenges and opportunities associated with sustai nability;  
• Increase Baxter's knowledge of sustainability and benchmark other companies that demonstrate  
leadership and innovation in this area;  
• Define, update and oversee Baxter's sustainability strategy;  
• Track progress on the company’s sustainability prio rities and specific goals, drive organizational 
accountability and recognize accomplishments;  
• Establish performance objectives, evaluate and address resource needs and help implement  
sustainability initiatives;  
• Engage with and provide sustainability progr ess updates to senior management;  
• Identify and determine how to best address emerging issues;  
• Guide and inform Baxter's sustainability reporting;  
• Solicit stakeholder feedback and review  stakeholder inquiries as appropriate; and  
• Recommend actions to enhance  Baxter's sustainability program.  
 
The committee's executive sponsor is Baxter's vice president, Manufacturing. Baxter's vice president of 
Environment, Health, and Safety serves as committee chair. The committee includes senior representatives 
from the com pany's BioScience, Medical Products, Corporate Communications, Ethics and Compliance, 
Finance, Human Resources, Manufacturing, Research and Development, and Supply Chain organizations.  
Members of the committee sponsor Baxter's sustainability priorities. Ea ch sponsor is accountable for 
developing goals and achieving progress in their respective area, and leads a global and multi -functional  
team to implement related initiatives. The committee holds quarterly meetings to review progress against 
interim target s, and to discuss how to address performance gaps. These meetings often feature outside 
sustainability experts to contribute independent input and perspectives.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/ba xters -approach.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
 
How Sustainability Strengthens Baxter's Business  
In addition to demonstrating Baxter's val ues and commitment to corporate responsibility, the company's 
sustainability initiatives provide business value. This takes many forms, from attracting and retaining key  
talent, engaging employees, and reducing operating expense, to ensuring market access  today and 
developing new markets, meeting stakeholder expectations, and enhancing Baxter's reputation.  
In 2009, the company included a sustainability question on its employee engagement survey, and  78%  
of employees worldwide indicated that Baxter's susta inability programs were important to them. The 
Sustainability Steering Committee plans to use this data as a baseline to evaluate how sustainability  
engages employees and contributes to a satisfying work environment. Baxter is conducting its next  
employe e engagement survey in 2011.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/ba xters -approach.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  History in Sustainability  
Baxter’s commitment to corporate citizenship spans decades. The company established its first formal 
environmental program and policy in 1977. Since then, milestones have included:  
• Establishing The Ba xter International Foundation in 1986;  
• Publishing the company’s first formal ethics manual in 1989;  
• Introducing Baxter’s first work/life benefit program in 1991;  
• Establishing the Corporate Responsibility Office to oversee the company’s ethics and complianc e  
practices in 1993; and  
• Taking steps to reduce use of packaging materials, decrease water consumption and waste generation,  
and conserve energy since 1988.  
 
1The term "base of the pyramid" refers to the approximately 4 billion people who live on less th an $1,500 annually 
and have limited access to the healthcare market. Companies developing and marketing products and services 
have typically overlooked this group, instead targeting people with more money to spend at the "top of the 
pyramid." In recent yea rs, more companies have extended products to the "middle of the pyramid," often referred 
to as an "emerging economy" strategy.  
 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/index.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Sustainability Reporting  
Baxter is dedicated to sharing information about its sustainability 
programs, priorities, goals and performance. This report illustrates 
the company's commitment to good governance, balance and 
transparency. It also serves as an entry point for stakeholder 
engagement and is the main vehicle for disclosing information  
about and soliciting feedback  on Baxter's sustainability initiatives 
and progress.  
As a part of the annual reporting process, Baxter measures and 
evaluates its  performance, and communicates its progress and 
challenges. These activities help the company contribute to 
addressing global social and environmental challenges while 
advancing sustainability at Baxter.  
The company's annual exercise of collecting, analyzi ng and 
reviewing detailed report content engages and educates people 
throughout the company on sustainability issues. This report also 
illustrates the interconnection between content areas, such as how 
product innovation can support access to healthcare in  emerging 
markets and the relationship between water use, energy use and 
greenhouse gas emissions contributing to global climate change.  
Baxter released its first public environmental report in 1992 and published its first sustainability report in 1999. 
The company has produced a sustainability report every year since, and is committed to annual reporting. The 
comprehensive 2010 Sustainability Report is available online. Baxter also produces a downloadable PDF of 
each section and an overview brochure , avail able in multiple languages.  
Baxter discloses information about its sustainability programs and performance through several additional 
communication channels as well. These include socially responsible investor surveys, award applications, 
press releases, c ustomer requests for proposals, governmental reports such as the U.S. Employer Information 
Report (EEO -1) and the U.S. Toxics Release Inventory, participation in conferences, executive speeches, and 
targeted stakeholder communications.  
 
Feedback  
Stakeholde r feedback is an important source of ideas to support continual improvement of Baxter's 
sustainability programs and reporting. We encourage readers to provide comments and suggestions  
through our Sustainability Survey . 
 Baxter employees contributed books and shelving 
for a children's library in the indigenous commu nity 
of Orang Asli in Malaysia.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxt er.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/index.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
About this Report  
• This report is i ntended for global use. Please consult the appropriate country -specific Baxter website  
for more information. Some statements in the report about products or procedures may differ from the 
licensed indications in specific countries. Therefore, always consu lt the country -specific summary of  
product characteristics (SPC), package leaflets or instructions for use. For more information, please  
contact a local Baxter representative.  
• The performance data in this report are from calendar year 2010 unless stated otherwise. Some case  
studies and program descriptions include information from 2011.  
• This report covers Baxter's global operations, including subsidiaries, unless otherwise noted.  
Environmental, health and safety data include joint ventures where Baxter has a controlling interest.  
• All currency in this report is in U.S. dollars unless stated otherwise.  
• Significant restatements of data compared to prior years are noted in the section where they appear.  
• For more information about this report, please contact the Center for One Baxter at 1 -800-422-9837 or  
1-847-948-4770, or by e -mail at onebaxter@baxter.com.  
 
 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/susta inability -reporting/external -reporting -standards.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
External Reporting Standards  
Global Reporting Initiative  
Baxter recognizes the importance of external sustainability reporting standards to promote r elevant, 
transparent and comparable disclosure of company performance. The company was one of the first to pilot  
the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines in 1999 and has served as a GRI Organizational  
Stakeholder (OS) since the program's inception  in 2004.  
The GRI Guidelines provide a valuable perspective to Baxter in its reporting process. GRI reporting principles 
(see below) offer a framework to test whether the company addresses key aspects of disclosure. Reviewing 
report content against the ran ge of GRI performance indicators helps Baxter to identify possible reporting and 
performance gaps and areas that may warrant further disclosure. This process is also useful to compare the 
company against reporting leaders and others in the industry.  
This r eport aligns with the GRI G3 Guidelines, application level B. Baxter provides a detailed GRI Index online . 
The following table describes how Baxter addresses GRI G3 reporting principles.  
GRI G3 REPORTING PRINCIPLE  RELEVANCE TO BAXTER  
Principles for Defini ng Report Content  
Materiality  - The information in a report 
should cover topics and Indicators * that 
reflect the organization's significant 
economic, environmental, and social impacts, 
or that would substantively influence the 
assessments and decisions of  stakeholders.  Baxter continually refines its approach to identifying and 
reporting on its material sustainability issues. This report 
includes a summary of Baxter's sustainability priorities and 
goals, as  well as an update for each priority that includes 
progress against each related goal.  
Stakeholder Inclusiveness  - The 
reporting organization should identify its 
stakeholders and explain in the report how it 
has responded to their reasonable 
expectations and interests.  Baxter outlines and describes its ke y stakeholder groups, 
and references examples of how it interacts with each, on 
the Stakeholder Engagement page . Examples are also 
included throughout the report.  
Sustainability Context  - The report should 
present the organization's performance in the 
wider context of sustainability.  The Chairman and CEO letter presents Baxter's 
performance in this manner. Many sections begin with a 
brief introduction framing the importance of the issue and its 
relevance to sustainability and the company. The priority 
upda tes describe  the relevance of many of the priority 
areas from a global sustainability context.  
 
*According to GRI: indicators elicit comparable information on the economic, environmental and social performance of the organization.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/external -reporting -standards.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Completeness  - Coverag e of the material 
topics and Indicators and definition of the 
report boundary should be sufficient to 
reflect significant economic, environmental, 
and social impacts and enable stakeholders 
to assess the reporting organization's 
performance in the reportin g period.  Baxter continues to improve its reporting to more fully 
address the range of sustainability issues. In addition to 
extensive coverage of Baxter's sustainability priorities, this 
report includes sections in a broad range of areas such as 
Environment, Health and Safety , Public Policy , Product 
Responsibility and Supply Chain . 
Principles for Ensuring Report Quality  
Balance  - The report should reflect positive 
and negative aspects of the organization's 
performance to enable a reasoned 
asses sment of overall performance.  Baxter reports on a consistent set of core performance 
indicators (see Summary Data Table) and the company's 
sustainability priorities and goals to illustrate positive as well 
as negative performance trends.  
Comparability  - Issues and information 
should be selected, compiled, and reported 
consistently. Reported information should be 
presented in a manner that enables 
stakeholders to analyze changes in the 
organization's performance over time, and 
could support analysis relativ e to other 
organizations.  When possible, this report provides five (and in some cases 
six) years of performance data, including relevant 
breakdowns and progress against targets on an absolute 
and normalized basis, to allow readers to evaluate the 
company's  performance. Data are generally included under 
performance graphs for clarity, and key information is 
presented in a Summary Data Table for ease of use. 
Industry performance data are included for comparison 
when available, such as occupational illness and  injury 
rates and share performance . Data beyond the timeframe of 
the report are included in past reports on the Downloads 
page.  
Accuracy  - The reported information should 
be sufficiently accurate and detailed for 
stakeholders to assess the reporting 
organization's performance.  Baxter uses a combination of internal processes and 
external verification for selected sections (see Assurance) 
to ensur e the reliability of information presented in this 
report. Significant restatements of data are noted.  
Timeliness  - Reporting occurs on a regular 
schedule and information is available in time 
for stakeholders to make informed decisions.  Baxter produces it s Sustainability Report annually, as soon 
as is feasible after content and data are compiled, analyzed, 
reviewed and verified in the case of Environment, Health 
and Safety, Supply Chain  and Product Transport  content 
and data.  
Clarity  - Information should be made 
available in a manner that is understandable 
and accessibl e to stakeholders using the 
report.  Baxter strives to present the information in this report 
clearly and concisely. The company continues to enhance 
the report web site to further increase accessibility, 
including several changes made this year to the stru cture 
and design. The report includes an interactive graphic 
illustrating Baxter's priorities and related performance goals, 
and the Web and print versions include data summaries.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/external -reporting -standards.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Reliability  - Information and processes used 
in the preparation of a repo rt should be 
gathered, recorded, compiled, analyzed, and 
disclosed in a way that could be subject to 
examination and that establishes the quality 
and materiality of the information.  Bureau Veritas verified the Environment, Health and Safety, 
Supply Chain , and Product Transport  sections of this report. 
In addition, many of the financ ial data included in this report 
are taken from the consolidated financial statements 
contained in the Baxter International Inc. 2010 Annual 
Report. These financial statements are audited by Baxter's 
independent registered public accounting firm, 
Pricewate rhouseCoopers LLP.  
 
Sustainability Priority Updates and Case Studies  
In addition to sections describing the company's policies, programs and performance across the range of 
sustainability, the Baxter 2010 Sustainability Report also includes the following:  
• Sustainability priority updates describe Baxter's approach for and progress against each of the company's 
nine sustainability priorities and related goals, including plans for 2011 as appropriate.  
• Case studies provide specific examples of strong performan ce in areas such as Ethics and Compliance, 
Employees , Environment, Health and S afety , Product Responsibility , Supply Chain  and Community Support.  
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/feedback -2009 -report.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
 
Feedb ack on 2009 Report  
Continual improvement is a fundamental aspect of Baxter's sustainability reporting process. To ensure  
the company continues to deliver stakeholders the most relevant information, Baxter solicited feedback  
on its 2009 Sustainability Repo rt from numerous experts:  
•  SustainAbility , a strategy consultant/think tank;  
•  Ceres , a national coalition of investors and public interest groups addressing sustainability, and its  
select coalition members with expertise in areas of focus for Baxter1; and  
• Bureau Veritas, Baxter's verification body, for the EHS, Supply Chain, and Product Transport  
sections in particular.  
 
These organizations cited several areas of strength f rom the 2009 report, including the following 
(paraphrased):  
 
General  
The report is highly accessible, easy to navigate and very inviting.  
On balance, Baxter's reporting of performance data is thorough. The summary data table is a cohesive 
snapshot of Bax ter's 2009 performance and the online data index is an excellent resource for more specific 
data points.  
Sustainability Priorities and Goals  
Baxter's nine sustainability priorities are balanced across the company's impacts and comprehensive  
in scope, gi ving readers a clear sense of Baxter's ambition and approach.  
Each of Baxter's sustainability priorities is supported by forward -looking goal(s), demonstrating seriousness 
of intent and providing a sense for the future direction for the company.  
The intr oduction to each priority update briefly explains how that priority relates to Baxter's business, 
supporting the company's business case for sustainability.  
 
1Ceres leads  a national coalition of investors, environmental organizations and other public inte rest groups working with companies to address sustainability 
challenges such as global climate change and water scarcity. Baxter is a member of the Ceres network of companies, which means that Baxter has committed 
to work with Ceres on various aspects of i ts sustainability performance and disclosure. Being a Ceres company is not a certification or stamp of approval 
relating to the company's business. The Ceres stakeholder team designated to work with Baxter is an independent group of individuals drawn prima rily from the 
Ceres coalition and represents a range of constituencies that have expertise in environmental, social and governance issues. In the review of Baxter's last 
report, the Ceres stakeholder team provided a diverse group of Baxter executives its f eedback on the company's sustainability priorities, performance and key 
impacts, and had a robust discussion about goals, initiatives, data and reporting. Baxter considered this feedback in the preparation of this report.  
  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/feedback -2009 -report.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter Internat ional Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Governance, Ethics and Complian ce 
Baxter clearly explains its policies and management structures for ethics and compliance.  
Employees  
Tying executive goals to inclusion and diversity is an effective way to drive progress in these areas 
throughout the organization.  
Environment, Healt h and Safety  
The trend analysis within the Environment, Health and Safety performance section is useful.  
Baxter's Environmental Financial Statement remains a leadership example that sets the company apart  
from its peers.  
The description of Baxter's hea lth and safety program and initiatives is broad in scope while also providing 
specific details.  
The company provides a useful point of comparison between its occupational injury and illness performance 
and the average rates for several related industries.  
It was appreciated that Baxter noted the death of a contractor despite the fact that the individual died of 
natural causes.  
Public Policy  
Baxter's disclosure of political contributions and description of areas of policy engagement are commendable, 
well organized and accessible.  
 
 
Feedback also included numerous opportunities for improvement. The following table summarizes several of 
those comments and describes changes made to this report.  
Feedback  Enhancements to Baxter 2010 Sustainability Report  
General 
Streamline the print report and ensure 
consistency across reporting media.  This year, Baxter created a 12 -page smaller format brochure 
highlighting progress against the company's nine sustainability 
priorities, instead of a full -sized 24 -page documen t as in recent 
years.  
Increase use of graphs and tables, 
particularly in the online report, to 
highlight year -on-year performance and 
progress towards stated goals and 
targets.  The updated web site includes several dozen performance graphs 
and tables, as well as interactive graphics illustrating the 
company's sustainability priorities and goals, issues across the 
product life cycle, and Baxter's Environmental, Health and Safety 
2010 and 2015 goals.  
In the CEO letter, provide high -level 
commentary on and i nterpretation of 
Baxter's performance.  These elements are included in the current Chairman  
and CEO Letter.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/feedback -2009 -report.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter Internat ional Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Make the option to provide stakeholder 
feedback more prominent in the 
sustainability report.  The redesigned web site includes graphical links to take the Baxter 
2010 Sustainability Report Survey in each section of the report 
along with other content promotions, as well as a permanent 
reference in the Quick Links section.  
Improve the accessibility of past 
reports – specifically the full, online 
version – to allow stakeholders to 
compare details of reporting and/or 
performance over time.  This year, Baxter produced a whitepaper style PDF of the entire 
contents of the web report, also available by section. This will be 
available in future years to prov ide readers easier access to 
historical information.  
Employees  
Describe more about career 
progression for female employees.  The Global Inclusion and Diversity section outlines steps the 
company has taken to increase gender and ethnic diversity at the 
executive level.  
Provide greater specificity on inclusion 
and diversity programs and initiatives.  The expanded Global Inclusion and Diversity section includes 
information about inclusion and diversity goals in Baxter's senior 
executives' annual performance p lans; inclusion plans that cover 
each business, region and function; and the development and roll -
out of a mandatory inclusion awareness course for all employees.  
Environment, Health and Safety  
Describe if employees or managers 
have financial incentives to reach EHS 
goals.  The Health and Safety section states that accident and injury rates 
factor into senior managers' annual performance management 
objectives and impact their compensation.  
Clarify how Baxter's 2010 EHS goals 
align with and support the com pany's 
2015 sustainability health and safety 
goals.  Baxter added an interactive graphic that details the company's 
2010 and 2015 EHS goals and shows the connection to Baxter's 
EHS-related 2015 sustainability goals.  
Product Responsibility / Supply Chain  
Enhance disclosure about performance 
results and lessons learned related to 
Baxter's product stewardship and 
green procurement initiatives, as those 
efforts move beyond their initial pilot or 
start-up phases.  The report provides examples from 2010 related t o life cycle 
assessments of Baxter products, as well as a second year of 
results for Baxter's Annual Supplier Sustainability Survey.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/feedback -2009 -report.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter Internat ional Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Public Policy  
Broaden the discussion on access to 
healthcare to also include the 
challenges of providing healthcare in  a 
cost-constrained environment, 
especially with the implementation of 
healthcare reform legislation in the 
United States bringing tens of millions of 
people into the system.  The Public Policy section focuses on healthcare reform and 
Baxter's efforts to en hance access to healthcare through a range 
of policy engagement  and related activities worldwide.  
 
Baxter also received feedback on the company's 2009 Sustainability Report from more than 50 readers 
through its Sustainability Survey. These comments  were c onsidered in the preparation of this report.  
Input on 2010 Report  
Ceres and its coalition members also provided Baxter input during the content development process of this 
report. Their review and comments focused on detailed outlines of progress made for each of the company's 
nine sustainability priorities. Baxter welcomed the opportunity to hear and consider input on report content 
while still in a position to act on it.  
 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/assurance.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reser ved.   
 
Assurance  
Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. verified the Environment, Health an d Safety (EHS), Supply Chain and 
Product Transport sections of this report (see verification opinion). In addition, Bureau Veritas provided limited 
assurance for the Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions that are under Baxter's operational control 
and are reported by Baxter for the period January 1, 2010, through December 31, 2010 (see verification 
opinion). Many of the financial data included in the Company Profile and Economic Impacts sections are  
taken from the consolidated financial statements c ontained in the Baxter International Inc. 2010 Annual  
Report. These financial statements are audited by Baxter's independent registered public accounting firm, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  
  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/su stainability -reporting/assurance.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/su stainability -reporting/assurance.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/su stainability -reporting/assurance.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/su stainability -reporting/assurance.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/su stainability -reporting/assurance.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/global -reporting -initiative -index.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Global Reporting Initiative Index  
This report aligns with the GRI G3 Guidelines. Baxter self -declares this report to application level B. Please 
also see how Baxter addresses G3 reporting principles.  
Disclosure  Description  2010 Reporting  
Strategy and Analysis  
1.1 Statement from the most senior decision -
maker of the organization about the 
relevance of sustainability to the 
organization and its strategy.  Chairman and CEO Letter  
1.2 Descr iption of key impacts, risks, and 
opportunities.  Chairman and CEO Letter  
Priorities and Goals  
Organizational Profile  
2.1 Name of the organization.  Company Profile  
2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or 
service s. Company Profile  
2.3 Operational structure of the organization, 
including main divisions, operating 
companies, subsidiaries, and joint 
ventures.  Company Profile  
2.4 Location of organization's headquarters.  Baxter's headquarters are located in Deerfield, 
Illinois, United States, approximately 20 miles north 
of Chicago.  
2.5 Number of countries where the 
organization operates, and names of 
countries with either major operations or 
that are specifically relevant to the 
sustainability issues covered in the 
report.  Company Profile  
2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form.  Baxter Healthcare Corporation (BAX) is a publicly 
traded company listed on the New York Stock 
Exchange.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/global -reporting -initiative -index.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  2.7 Markets served.  Company Profile  
2.8 Scale of the reporting organization.  Company Profile  
Employees  
Environment, Health and Safety  
Supply Chain  
2.9 Significant changes during the reporting 
period regarding size, structure, or 
ownership.  Company Profile  
2.10 Awards received in the reporting period.  Awards and Honors  
Report Parameters  
3.1 Reporting period for  information 
provided.  Sustainability Reporting  
3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if 
any).  Downloads  
3.3 Reporting cycle.  Sustainability Reporting  
3.4 Contact point for questions re garding the 
report or its contents.  Sustainability Reporting  
3.5 Process for defining report content.  Baxter's Approach  
Priorities and Goals  
External Reporting Standards  
Feedback on 2009 Repor t 
3.6 Boundary of the report.  Sustainability Reporting  
Environment, Health and Safety  
3.7 State any specific limitations on the 
scope or boundary of the report.  Sustainability Rep orting  
Environment, Health and Safety  
3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, 
subsidiaries, leased facilities, 
outsourced operations, and other entiti es 
that can significantly affect comparability Sustainability Reporting   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/global -reporting -initiative -index.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  from period to period and/or between 
organizations.  
3.9 Data measure ment techniques and the 
bases of calculations, including 
assumptions and techniques underlying 
estimations applied to the compilation of 
the Indicators and other information in 
the report.  Baxter Energy Usage and Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions  
2010 Environmental Financial Statement  
GHG Emissions and Climate Change  
Managing Supplier Performance  
Community Support  
Summary Data Table  (PDF)  
3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re -
statements of information provided in 
earlier reports, and the reasons for such 
re-statement.  Environment, Health and Safety  
EHS Goals  
3.11 Signif icant changes from previous 
reporting periods in the scope, 
boundary, or measurement methods 
applied in the report.  Baxter Energy Usage and Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions  
2010 Environmental Financial Statement  
3.12 Table ident ifying the location of the 
Standard Disclosures in the report.  Global Reporting Initiative Index  
3.13 Policy and current practice with regard 
to seeking external as surance for the 
report.  Assurance  
Governance, Commitments and Engagements  
4.1 Governance structure of the 
organization, including commi ttees under 
the highest governance body 
responsible for specific tasks, such as 
setting strategy or organizational 
oversight.  Corporate Go vernance  
4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest 
governance body is also an executive 
officer.  Corporate Governance   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/global -reporting -initiative -index.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  4.3 For orga nizations that have a unitary 
board structure, state the number of 
members of the highest governance 
body that are independent and/or non -
executive members.  Corporate Governance  
4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and 
employees to provide recommendations 
or direction to the highest governance 
body.  How to Contact Baxter's Board of Directors  
4.5 Linkage between compensation for 
members of the highest governance 
body, senior managers, and executives 
(including departure arrangements), and 
the organization's performance 
(includin g social and environmental 
performance).  Baxter's Compensation Committee and Committee 
Charter  
4.6 Processes in place for the highest 
governance body to ens ure conflicts of 
interest are avoided.  Ethics and Compliance – Code of Conduct  
4.7 Process for determining the 
qualific ations and expertise of the 
members of the highest governance 
body for guiding the organization's 
strategy on economic, environmental, 
and social topics.  Corporate Govern ance Guidelines  
4.8 Internally developed statements of 
mission or values, codes of conduct, 
and principles relevant to economic, 
environmental, and social performance 
and the status of their implementation.  Corporate Governance  
Ethics and Compliance – Code  of Conduct  
Talent Management  
Global Inclusion and Di versity   
EHS – Policy and Vision  
GHG Emissions and Climate Change  
Bioethics  
Clinical Trials   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/global -reporting -initiative -index.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Managing Suppl ier Performance  
Product Donations  
4.9 Procedures of the highest governance 
body for overseeing the organization's 
identification  and management of 
economic, environmental, and social 
performance, including relevant risks 
and opportunities, and adherence or 
compliance with internationally agreed 
standards, codes of conduct, and 
principles.  Corporate Governance  
4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest 
governance body's own performance, 
particularly with respect to economic, 
environmental, and social performance.  Corporate Governance Guidelines  
4.11 Explanation of whether and how the 
precautionary approach or principle is 
addressed by the organization.  Baxter's products are regulat ed by health 
authorities around the world and the company is 
required to provide extensive scientific data related 
to the safety and efficacy of those products in 
order to obtain licensure by regulatory authorities. 
See also Materials Use . 
4.12 Externally developed economic, 
environmental, and social charters, 
principles, or other initiatives to which 
the organization subscribes or 
endorses.  Affiliations and Memberships  
EHS Management Systems  
GHG Emissions and Climate Change  
Animal Welfare  
Clinical T rials 
Product Use  
Managing Supplier Perf ormance   
Global Sustainable Supply Chain  
External Reporting Standards  
4.13 Memberships in associations and/or 
national/international advocacy 
organizations.  Affiliations and Memberships   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/global -reporting -initiative -index.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by 
the organization.  Stakeholder Engagement  
4.15 Basis for identificat ion and selection of 
stakeholders with whom to engage.  Stakeholder Engagement  
4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, 
including frequency of enga gement by 
type and by stakeholder group.  Stakeholder Engagement  
4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been 
raised through stakeholder engagement, 
and how the organization has 
responded to those key topics and 
concerns, including through its reporting.  Feedback on 2009 Repor t 
Economic  
 Disclosure on Management Approach  Economic Impacts  
Direct Impacts  
Indirect Impacts  
EC1 Economic value generated and 
distributed, including revenues, operat ing 
costs, employee compensation, 
donations and other community 
investments, retained earnings, and 
payments to capital providers and 
governments. (Core)  Direct Impacts  
EC2 Financial implications and other risks and 
opportunities for the organization's 
activities due to climate change. (Core)  Baxter  considers its exposure, during the next 
decade, to potential regulatory, physical and other 
risks related to climate change to be low. The 
company believes existing and anticipated 
government policies, legislation, regulations and 
energy standards aimed at improving energy 
efficiency and limiting and reducing greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions will pos e minimal regulatory 
risk to the corporation, in part due to Baxter's 
proactive approach in this area. In the near -term, 
Baxter anticipates minimal physical risk to its 
business associated with global warming, 
resultant climate change, sea -level rise, chan ge in 
weather patterns and precipitation. For more  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/global -reporting -initiative -index.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  information, see Baxter's Carbon Disclosure 
Project submission. For more information, see 
Baxter's Carbon Disclosure Project submission.  
EC3 Coverage of the organi zation's defined 
benefit plan obligations. (Core)  2010 Annual Report  (page 73)  
EC4 Significant financial assistance received 
from governme nt. (Core)  Not available on a companywide basis.  
EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level 
wage compared to local minimum wage 
at significant locations of operation. 
(Additional)    
EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of 
spending on locally -based supp liers at 
significant locations of operation. (Core)  Supplier Diversity  
EC7 Procedures for local hiring and 
proportion of senior management hired 
from the local community at significant 
locations of operation. (Core)  Baxter does not track this information globally.  
EC8 Development and impact of 
infrastructure investments and services 
provided primarily for public benefit 
through commercial, in -kind, or pro bono 
engagement. (Core)  Community Support  
EC9 Understanding and describing significant 
indirect economic impacts, including the 
extent of impacts. (Additional)  Indirect Impacts  
Environmental  
 Disclosure on Management Approach  EHS Program  
EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 
(Core)  Eco-Efficiency / Raw Materials Use  
EN2 Percentage of materials used that are 
recycled input materials. (Core)  Eco-Efficiency / Raw Materials Use  
EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary 
energy source. (Core)  Energy  
Baxter Energy Usage and Greenhouse Gas  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/global -reporting -initiative -index.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Emissions  
EN4 Indirect energy consumption by pri mary 
source. (Core)  Energy  
Baxter Energy Usage and Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions  
EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and 
efficiency improvements. (Additional)  Energy  
EN6 Initiatives to provide energy -efficient or 
renewable e nergy based products and 
services, and reductions in energy 
requirements as a result of these 
initiatives. (Additional)  GHG Emissions and Climate Change  
Product Sustainability Review  
EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy 
consumption and reductions achieved. 
(Additional)  Energy  
Baxter's Energy Managers Convene Virtual 
Conference  
Baxter's Aibonito, Puerto Rico, Facility 
Demonstrates Environmental Best Practices  
EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 
(Core)  Water and Wastewater  
EN9 Water sources significantly affected by 
withdrawal of water. (Additional)  Water and Wastewater  
EN10  Percentage and total volume of water 
recycled and reused. (Additional)    
EN11  Location and size of land owned, 
leased, managed in, or adjacent to, 
protected areas and areas of high 
biodiversity value outside protect ed 
areas. (Core)  Biodiversity  
EN12  Description of significant impacts of 
activities, products, and services on 
biodiversity in protected areas and areas 
of high biodiversity value outside 
protected areas. (Core)  Biodiversity  
EN13  Habitats protected or restored. Biodiversity   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/global -reporting -initiative -index.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  (Additional)  
EN14  Strategies, current actions, and future 
plans for manag ing impacts on 
biodiversity. (Additional)  Biodiversity  
EN15  Number of IUCN Red List species and 
national conservatio n list species with 
habitats in areas affected by operations, 
by level of extinction risk. (Additional)    
EN16  Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas 
emissions by weight. (Core)  GHG Emissions and Climate Change  
Baxter Energy Usage and Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions  
EN17  Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas 
emissions by weight. (Core)  GHG Emissions and Climate Change  
Baxter Energy Usage and Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions  
EN18  Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions and reductions achieved. 
(Additional)  GHG Emissions and Climate Change  
Baxter's Energy Managers Convene Virtual 
Conference  
Baxter's Aibonito, Puerto Rico, Facility 
Demonstrates Environmental Best Practices  
EN19  Emissions of ozone -depleting 
substances by weight. (Core)  Air Emissions  
EN20  NOx, SOx, and other significant air 
emissions by type and weight. (Core)  Air Emissions  
EN21  Total water discharge by quality and 
destination. (Core)  Water and Wastewater  
EN22  Total weight of waste by type and 
disposal method. (Core)  Waste  
EN23  Total number and volume of significant 
spills. (Core)  Environmental Compliance  
EN24  Weig ht of transported, imported, 
exported, or treated waste deemed 
hazardous under the terms of the Basel    
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/global -reporting -initiative -index.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and 
percentage of transported waste 
shipped internationally. (Additional)  
EN25  Identity, size, protected status,  and 
biodiversity value of water bodies and 
related habitats significantly affected by 
the reporting organization's discharges 
of water and runoff. (Additional)    
EN26  Initiatives to mitigate environmental 
impacts of products and services, and 
extent of i mpact mitigation. (Core)  Product Sustainability Review  
Materials Use  
Manufacturing   
Product Transport   
Packaging   
Product End -of-Life  
Materials Restrictions  
Global Sustainable Supply Chain  
EN27  Percentage of products sold and their 
packaging materials that are reclaimed 
by category. (Core)  The European Union packaging directive requires 
Baxter to reclaim packaging and to submit related 
reports. Baxter typically pays third parties fees of 
about $1 million per year to do this, as indicated on 
the company's Environmental Financial Statement . 
Baxter does not currently have systems to track 
quantities of packaging materials reclaimed. 
Baxter's products are primarily disposable medical 
products. Reclamation of these product s is difficult 
since often they must be disposed of as 
biohazardous waste after their use. Baxter 
continues to explore means to reclaim and recycle 
products with its customers. See also Product 
End-of-Life. 
EN28  Monetary value of significant fines and 
total number of non -monetary sanctions 
for non -compliance with environmental 
laws and regulations. (Core)  Environmental Compliance   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/global -reporting -initiative -index.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  EN29  Significant environmental impacts of 
transporting products and other goods 
and materials used for the organization's 
operations, and transporting members of 
the workforce. (Additional)  GHG Emissions and Climate Change  
Baxter Energy Usage and Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions  
Product Transport  
  
EN30  Total environmental protection 
expenditures and investments by type 
(Additional)  2010 Environmental Financial Statement  
Labor Practices and Decent Work  
 Disclosure on Management Approach  Talent Management  
Sustainability Education  
Compensation and Benefits  
Measuring Company Culture  
Global Inclusion and Diversit y 
Work/Life  
LA1 Total workforce by employment type, 
employment contract, and region. (Core)  Employees  
LA2 Total number and rate of employee 
turnover by age group, gender, and 
region. (Core)  Baxter does not track this information globally.  
LA3 Benefits provided to full -time employees 
that are not provided to temporary or 
part-time em ployees, by major 
operations. (Additional)  Compensation and Benefits  
Work/Life  
LA4 Percentage of employees covered by 
collective bargaining agreements. (Core)  Baxter does not track this information globally.  
LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding 
significant operational changes, including 
whether it is specified in  collective 
agreements. (Core)  The length of the notice period is dependent on the 
type of change being made. Baxter is committed to 
providing appropriate notice and follows all 
relevant consultation and notice requirements.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/global -reporting -initiative -index.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  LA6 Percentage of total workfo rce 
represented in formal joint management -
worker health and safety committees 
that help monitor and advise on 
occupational health and safety 
programs. (Additional)    
LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, 
lost days, and absenteeism, and number 
of wo rk-related fatalities by region. 
(Core)  2010 Health and Safety Performance  
LA8 Education, training, counseling, 
prevention, a nd risk -control programs in 
place to assist workforce members, their 
families, or community members 
regarding serious diseases. (Core)  Product Development   
Product Donations  
The Baxter International Foundation  
LA9 Health and safety topics covered in 
formal agreements with trade unions. 
(Additional)    
LA10  Average hours of training per year per 
employee by employee categ ory. (Core)  Talent Management  
LA11  Programs for skills management and 
lifelong learning that support the 
continued employability of employees 
and assist them in managing career 
endings. (Additional)  Talent Management  
Sustainability Education  
LA12  Percentage of employees receiving 
regular performance and career 
development reviews. (Additional)  Talent Management  
LA13  Composition of governance bodies and 
breakdown of employees per category 
according to gender, age group, minority 
group membership, and other indicators 
of diversity. (Core)  Global Inclusion and Diversity  
LA14  Ratio of basic salary of men to women 
by employee category. (Core)  Baxter does not track this information globally.  
Human Rights   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/global -reporting -initiative -index.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   Disclosure on Management Approach  Managing Supplier Performance  
HR1 Percentage and total number of 
significant investment agreements that 
include human rights clauses or that 
have undergone human rights scre ening. 
(Core)  Baxter does not track this information globally in a 
consistent manner. See also Managing Supplier 
Performance . 
HR2 Percentage of  significant suppliers and 
contractors that have undergone 
screening on human rights and actions 
taken. (Core)  Managing Supplier Performance  
HR3 Total hours of employee training on 
policies and procedures concerning 
aspects of human rights that are 
relevant to operations, including the 
percentage of employees trained. 
(Additional)    
HR4 Total number of incidents of 
discrimination and actions tak en. (Core)  In addition to alleged cases of discrimination and 
harassment that may be handled locally, Baxter's 
Ethics and Compliance helpline and information 
management system logged nine allegations of 
discrimination and harassment in 2010. Baxter 
encoura ges employees to seek guidance and 
report concerns through a number of formal 
channels. Through these channels, Baxter 
identifies incidents, prevents incidents from 
occurring and addresses issues when they do 
arise. Items identified through these channels help 
Ethics and Compliance managers identify key risks, 
develop appropriate training, and design and apply 
compliance assessment methodologies.  
HR5 Operations identified in which the right to 
exercise freedom of association and 
collective bargaining may b e at 
significant risk, and actions taken to 
support these rights. (Core)   
HR6 Operations identified as having 
significant risk for incidents of child 
labor, and measures taken to contribute See Baxter’s Code of Co nduct, page 9.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/global -reporting -initiative -index.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  to the elimination of child labor. (Core)  
HR7 Operations identified as having 
significant risk for incidents of forced or 
compulsory labor, and measures to 
contribute to the elimination of forced or 
compulsory labor. (Core)  See Baxter’s Code of Conduct, page 9.  
HR8 Percentage of s ecurity personnel trained 
in the organization's policies or 
procedures concerning aspects of 
human rights that are relevant to 
operations. (Additional)    
HR9 Total number of incidents of violations 
involving rights of indigenous people and 
actions taken. (Additional)    
Society  
 Disclosure on Management Approach  Governance, Ethics and Compliance  
Community Support  
Access to Healthcare  
Critical Community Needs  
Employee Involvement  
SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any 
programs and practices that assess and 
manage the impacts of operations on 
communities, including entering, 
operating, and exiting. (Core)  Environment, Health and Safety  
SO2 Percentage and total number of business 
units analyzed for risks related to 
corruption. (Core)  Baxter conducts an annual enterprise -wide risk 
assessment covering, among other things, legal 
risks such as corruption. Baxter also annually 
conducts inte nsive assessments of its business 
units that are designed to evaluate whether Baxter 
has appropriate anticorruption policies, processes, 
controls and training. The company conducted 11 
such assessments outside the United States in 
2010.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/global -reporting -initiative -index.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  SO3 Percentage of employees trained in 
organization's anti -corruption policies 
and procedures. (Core)  Ethics and Compliance – Code of Condu ct 
Ethics and Compliance - Structure and Programs  
SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of 
corruption. (Co re) Allegations are investigated by the Ethics and 
Compliance department.  
SO5 Public policy positions and participation in 
public policy development and lobbying. 
(Core)  GHG Emissions and Climate Change  
Public Policy  
2010 Political Contributions Report  
2009 Political Contributions Report  
2008 Political Contributions Report  
SO6 Total value of financial and in -kind 
contributions to political parties, 
politicians, and related institutio ns by 
country. (Additional)  2010 Political Contributions Report  
2009 Political Contributions Report  
2008 Political Contributions Report  
SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-
competitive behavior, anti -trust, and 
monopoly practices and their outcomes. 
(Additional)    
SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and 
total number of non -monetary sanctions 
for non -compliance with laws and 
regulations. (Core)  Safety  
Environmental Compliance  
Health and Safety Compliance  
Product Use  
Product Respo nsibility  
 Disclosure on Management Approach  Product Responsibility  
Quality   
Safety   
R&D and Design  
Materials Use  
Manufacturing   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/global -reporting -initiative -index.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Product Transport  
Packagi ng  
Product Use  
Product End -of-Life 
Product Development  
Base of the Pyramid  
Product Donations  
PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and 
safety impacts of products and s ervices 
are assessed for improvement, and 
percentage of significant products and 
services categories subject to such 
procedures. (Core)  Product Sustainability Review  
PR2 Total number of incidents of non -
compliance with regulations and 
voluntary codes concerning health and 
safety impacts of products and services 
during their life cycle, by type of 
outcomes. (A dditional)  Safety  
PR3 Type of product and service information 
required by procedures, and percentage 
of significant products and services 
subject to such in formation 
requirements. (Core)  Clinical Trials  
Product Use  
PR4 Total number of incidents of non -
compliance with regulations and 
voluntary codes concerning product and 
service information and labeling, by type 
of outcomes. (Additional)    
PR5 Practices related to customer  
satisfaction, including results of surveys 
measuring customer satisfaction. 
(Additional)    
PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, 
standards, and voluntary codes related Product Use   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/global -reporting -initiative -index.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  to marketing communications, including 
advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. 
(Core)  
PR7 Total number of incidents of non -
compliance with regulations and 
voluntary codes concerning marketing 
communications, including advertis ing, 
promotion, and sponsorship by type of 
outcomes. (Additional)  Product Use  
PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints 
regarding breaches of custom er privacy 
and losses of customer data. 
(Additional)    
PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for 
non-compliance with laws and 
regulations concerning the provision and 
use of products and services. (Core).  Safety  
Product Use   
 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/economic -impacts/index.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Economic Impacts   
Baxter's direct and indirect economic impacts on its stakeholders 
are an important aspect of the company's s ustainability 
performance. Direct impacts can be described by financial 
transactions, such as revenue received from customers, wages 
and benefits provided to employees, and tax payments made to 
governments. Some but not all of these appear in a company's 
financial statements. Indirect impacts, which can be more 
difficult to quantify, include increased productivity and money 
saved by customers due to their use of Baxter's products, and 
job creation outside of Baxter due to the company's spending.  
 
Baxter's F inancial Performance  
Baxter's broader economic impacts depend on its ongoing 
financial performance. The company's global net sales totaled 
$12.84 billion in 2010, an increase of 2% over 2009. Sales within 
the United States totaled $5.26 billion, roughly fl at compared to 
2009, and international sales totaled $7.58 billion, an increase of 
5% over 2009. Baxter's net income for 2010 totaled $1.4 billion 
compared to $2.2 billion the prior year. On an adjusted basis, 
excluding special charges in 2009 and 2010, Ba xter's net income 
in 2010 was $2.4 billion, an increase of 2% over 2009. Over the five years ending December 31, 2010, total 
shareholder return (including dividends) was 46%.  
 
For a detailed description of the company's financial performance, see Baxter's 2010 Annual Report . For other 
investor information such as upcoming events, presentations and reports, see the Investors portion of the 
company's website.  
 As part of Baxter's Making a Meaningful Difference 
campaign, employee volunteers participate in free 
healthcare clinics such as this one in India to provide 
checkups to children in impoverished areas.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/economic -impacts/direct -impacts.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Right s Reserved.  Direct Impa cts  
Baxter's direct impacts are described by payments Baxter makes to and receives from various  
stakeholder groups during the course of business. For example:  
• Customers buy Baxter's products;  
• Baxter pays suppliers for raw materials and other goods and se rvices;  
• Employees receive wages and benefits;  
• Investors provide Baxter capital in exchange for dividends and possible gains in share value  
(see graph); and  
• Communities may receive tax payments, as well as cash and product donations and volunteerism  
effor ts of local employees (in some locations).  
 
The following table summarizes these transactions.   
Economic Value Generated and Distributed (Dollars in Millions)  
  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  
Economic Value Generated  
Net Sales  $10,378  $11,263  $12,348  $12,562  $12,843  
Net Income Attributable to Baxter  1,397  1,707  2,014  2,205  1,420  
Economic Value Distributed  
Suppliers  
Payments to Suppliers (approximate)  $4,100  $4,100  $4,400  $4,400  $5,500  
Investors  
Share Repurchases  737 1,855  1,986  1,216  1,453  
Cash Dividend s on Common Stock  364 704 546 632 688 
Governments  
Income Tax Expense (U.S.)  30 228 205 273 284 
Income Tax Expense (international)  318 179 232 246 179  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/economic -impacts/direct -impacts.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Right s Reserved.   
Communities  
Cash Donations * 20.7 23.5 32.9 34.0 31.4 
Product Donations  14.9 31.1 10.9 18.9 48.1** 
Baxter (Reinvested)  
Capital Expenditures  526 692 954 1,014  963 
R&D Expenses  614 760 868 917 915 
 
 *Baxter and The Baxter International Foundation . 
**Includes value of product donations calculated using average sales price (ASP). Variations in Baxter's annual product donations are due to  
   fluctuations in community needs, the regulatory environment, manufacturing processes and marketing. The company identifies opportunities  
   to donate and responds to community requests as appropriate. Amount in 2010 reflects change in method of reporting donations through the  
   company’s Patient Assistance Program to ASP, and significant donations to assist earthquake victims in Haiti as well as victims of a subsequent  
   cholera outbreak in that country.  
 
Baxter Share Performance  
The following graph compares the change in cumulative total shareholder return (including reinvested 
dividends) on Baxter's common stock with the Standard & Poor's 500 Composite Index and the  
Standard & Poor's 500 Health Care Index as of  December 31 of each year.  
  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/economic -impacts/direct -impacts.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Right s Reserved.   
For additional detail, see Baxter's interactive stock chart . 
Local communities may benefit from Baxter's presence in addition to the wages the company pays employees, 
such as when Baxter makes infrastructure investments that benefit the community in addition to the company. 
In some Baxter manufacturing plants, Baxter employs physicians that provide free or inexpensive healthcare  
to employees' families and community members in addition to employees. In 2010, Baxter facilities in the 
following locations offered free or subsidized seasonal flu vaccinations to employee family members:  
Argentina (Buenos Aires), Australia (Toongabbie), Japan (Miyazaki), Korea (Seoul), Malta (Marsa),  
Philippines (Canlubang), Puerto Rico (Aibonito a nd Catano) and the United States (Mountain Home,  
Arkansas, and Largo, Florida).  
In addition, many Baxter facilities support local charities (see Critical Community Needs  for detail).  
 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/economic -impacts/indirect -impacts.html  
© Copy right 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Indirect Impacts  
Although difficult to measure precisely, Baxter's main indirect economic impact is through its products.  
By using Baxter products, many patients extend and improve the quality of their lives and in some cases  
may avert further health expenses. Baxter conducts economic research and works to provide gover nments, 
healthcare organizations and patients the information needed to make the best possible decisions  
about treatment.  
 
For example, Baxter is the world's leading manufacturer of peritoneal dialysis (PD) products to treat patients 
with end -stage renal disease, or irreversible kidney failure. PD is a self -administered in -home therapy. Recent 
studies published in health economics and healthcare journals conclude that in -home PD therapy can be less 
expensive than in -center hemodialysis both in developed an d developing economies.1,2 See more information  
in Product Development.  
 
In the United States, catheter -related bloodstream infections (CRBSIs) cost an average of $34,000 per patient  
in increased hospital costs and extend patient length -of-stay by an ave rage of 23 days.3,4 Baxter's V -LINK Luer 
activated device with Vitalshield protective coating, which was launched in the United States in 2008, is an 
intravenous connector that allows needle -free access to the patient's bloodstream. The Vitalshield technol ogy 
is an antimicrobial coating that has been shown to kill at least 99.99% of six common pathogens known to 
cause CRBSIs. The V -LINK Luer activated device has since been introduced across most regions globally.  
 
Baxter spending also has a "multiplier effe ct" on the broader economy, for example, through creating  
jobs in the supply chain and supporting services such as air travel or hospitality. Baxter does not measure 
performance in this area, but believes these impacts are significant given the company's size and scope.  
For example, Baxter paid its suppliers approximately $4.4 billion in 2010, which those suppliers then used  
for purposes such as paying their suppliers, providing their employees with wages and benefits, and paying 
taxes and other expenses . 
 
1 "Gaining Efficiencies: Resources and Demand for Dialysis around the Globe," Neil et al, Value in Health (International Society for Pharmacoeconomics  
  and Outcomes Research), 2009, 73 -79. 
2 "Economic Evaluations of Dialysis Treatment Modalities," Jus t et al, Health Policy 86 (2008), 163 -180. 
3 "The Attributable Mortality and Costs of Primary Nosocomial Bloodstream Infection in the Intensive Care Unit," DiGiovine B, et al, Am J Respir Crit  
  Care Med, 1999; 160: 976 -981. 
4 "Hospital -acquired Infection s in Pennsylvania," Pennsylvania Health Care Cost Containment Council, November 2006.  
 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustai nability/economic -impacts/business -value.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Business Value  
Pursuing sustainability reflects Baxter's values, supports its social -responsibility commitments and reduces the 
company’s environmental impacts. Sust ainability also enhances Baxter’s business, as described in the 
following table.  
Cost Savings  
 Environmental Financial Statement  
 Energy savings from operations  
 Reduced waste  
 More efficient water use  
 Decreased worker's compensation through enhanced employee  health and safety  
 Improved packaging designs  
 Optimization of supply chain  
Market Access  
 Product quality and safety  
 Efforts related to European Union Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) Directive,  
Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Directive, Evaluation and Authorisation of Chemicals 
(REACH) Directive and similar regulations worldwide  
Employee Engagement  
• Talent acquisition and retention  
• Talent management and development  
• Sustainability education  
• Global inclusion and diversity  
• Work/l ife programs  
New and Expanding Markets  
• Peritoneal dialysis  
• Materials innovations  
• Pandemic preparedness  
• Requests for proposals (RFPs) including environmental criteria  
• Products and solutions targeting customers at the "Base of the Pyramid" * 
• Partnering with health authorities to advance care   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/economic -impacts/business -value.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Enhanced Brand and Reputation  
• Inclusion in socially responsible investment indices  
• Leade rship in addressing global climate change and other sustainability issues  
• Disclosure of sustainability performance through this report and other communications  
• Improved reputation through awards and recognition  
• Enhanced relationships with local communities  and other stakeholders  
 
Managing Risk  
Baxter also manages various risk factors regarding issues related to sustainability such as product quality, 
efficacy and safety; compliance with laws and regulations worldwide; governmental and other policies relate d 
to reimbursement for medical products, and intellectual property protection. See pages 6 -12 of Baxter's Annual 
Report on Form 10 -K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 for more detail. Additional information about 
Baxter's approach in some of thes e areas is included in this report as well, such as in Quality , Safety , 
Environmental, Health and Safety – Compliance  and Product Use . 
* The term "base of the pyramid" refers to the approximately 4 billion people who live on less than $1,500 annually and h ave limited access to the  
 healthcare market. Companies developing and marketing products and services have typically overlooked this group, instead targeting people with more  
 money to spend at the "top of the pyramid." In recent years, more companies h ave extended products to the "middle of the pyramid," often referred to as  
 an "emerging economy" strategy.  
 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/stakeholder -engagement.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Stakeholder Engagement  
Stakeholders play an important role in Baxter's continued success, and the company strives to take into 
account their v aried perspectives.  Baxter engages with stakeholders worldwide to share information, better 
understand their views on the company’s priorities, programs and performance, and determine opportunities  
to collaborate and to reach common goals.  
Much of the com pany’s stakeholder engagement focuses on key aspects of Baxter’s business and products. 
For example, Baxter:   
• Assembles "advisory boards" of patients, clinicians, health practitioners and researchers to gather feedback 
related to the company's operations a nd products;  
• Has a patient advisory council in Illinois, United States, that provides input from home dialysis patients to help 
Baxter improve products and services for people with end -stage renal disease;  
• Uses a pharmacy customer advisory board in the Uni ted States to identify market trends and their implications 
for Baxter and its customers;  
• Assembles clinical advisory boards of preeminent physicians from around the world to guide the company's 
clinical product development programs; and  
• Convenes academic leaders and researchers to serve as advisors or consultants on specific sustainability 
and scientific issues, such as Animal welfare . 
 
Baxter also has relationships with numerous organizations that focus on various aspects of sustainability.  
See the Affiliations and Memberships  and Environment, Health and Safety  pages for further details.  
For example, Ceres  is a national network of investors, environmental groups and other public interest 
organizations working with companies to address sustainability chall enges such as global climate change. 
Baxter has been a member of the Ceres network of companies since 1997, and has committed to work with 
Ceres on its sustainability performance and disclosure. The Ceres stakeholder team designated to work with 
Baxter is an independent group of individuals drawn primarily from the Ceres coalition and represents a range 
of constituencies that have expertise in environmental, social and governance issues.  
Feedback on Sustainability Report  
Baxter views its sustainability repo rt as a means to engage with stakeholders and seek feedback on the 
company’s sustainability initiatives. Ceres and its coalition members provided Baxter input on a detailed  
outline of its 2010  progress updates  for each of the company’s nine sustainability  priorities during the content 
development process. Baxter welcomed the opportunity to hear and consider input on report content while  
still in a position to implement it. In addition, Baxter engaged several outside experts to provide input on the 
company ’s 2009 sustainability report. See examples  of feedback provided, and how it was reflected in the 
2010 report.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/economic -impacts/stakeholder -engagement.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Baxter Sustainability Report Survey  
Baxter also welcomes feedback on its sustainability report from all stakeholders. Readers can provide their 
input through the company’s sustainability report survey . In 2010, Baxter considered input from about 50 
survey respondents in creating this report.  
Baxter Stakeholder Groups  
Examples of Baxter's stakeholder engagement are referenced in the following table  and throughout this report.  
Baxter Stakeholder Groups  
Group: Communities  
Description  Channels of Engagement  Example  
Baxter conducts business 
in more than 100 countries 
and operates 
manufacturing facilities in 
27 countries.  • Involvement in community 
organizations and schools  
• Employee volunteer efforts  
• Collaboration with international 
health and aid organizations  
• Employee participation on 
boards and leadership in local 
and national organizations  • Baxter works with humanitarian aid 
organizations, such as res ponding to 
earthquake relief efforts in Japan  
• Baxter employees volunteer as part of 
Baxter’s Science@Work program, 
delivering professional development to 
Chicago Public Schools teachers and 
biotechnology to students.  
• Baxter’s facilities in Asia Pacific org anize 
activities each year for Make a Meaningful 
Difference Month to encourage employee  
volunteerism in local communities.  
Group: Customers  
Description  Channels of Engagement  Example  
Includes healthcare 
professionals, 
hospitals/clinics, kidney 
dialysis centers, medical 
research centers, nursing 
homes and rehabilitation 
centers.  • Ongoing customer product 
training and continuing 
education programs  
• Participation in professional 
organizations  
• Customer service and clinical 
helplines  
• Customer publications and 
presentations  
• Customer satisfaction surveys  
• Baxter attendance at 
conferences, such as AACN, • Baxter forms various advisory groups to 
provide feedback on the company’s 
products a nd operations.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/economic -impacts/stakeholder -engagement.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  ASHP, and CleanMed  
• UK Green Nephrology Group  
• Hospital Plastics Recycling 
Council  
Group: Employees  
Description  Channels of Engagement  Example  
48,000   employees 
worldwide  • Town hall meetings, 
webcasts, and “Lunch and 
Learn” opportunities on a 
variety of topics including 
health/well -being and public 
policy  
• Employee survey s 
• Focus groups  
• Baxter Intranet , employee 
newsletter and other 
updates/viral communications  
• Works councils, facility health 
and safety committees, and 
Global Citizen committees 
(employee groups that review, 
discuss and implement 
community outreach activitie s 
at Baxter locations)  
• Executive -level Sustainability 
Steering Committee  
• Regional Sustainability 
Steering Committees  
• Code of Conduct  
• Ethics and Compliance Helpline  
• Regional Ethics and 
Compliance Committees  
• Certificate of Integrity and 
Compliance  
• Baxter Pol itical Action 
Committee  
• Global Inclusion Council  • The company organizes a Baxter World 
Environment Week to engage employees 
worldwide  with Baxter’s environmental 
efforts.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/economic -impacts/stakeholder -engagement.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Group: Government, Regulatory, Health Authorities  
Description  Channels of Engageme nt Example  
Examples include City of 
Chicago, Committee for 
Proprietary Medicinal 
Products, European 
Medicines Valuation 
Agency, European 
Commission, European 
Parliament, ministries of 
health and environment, 
health and safety agencies 
worldwide, State of Illinois, 
U.S. Center for 
Medicare/Medicaid, U.S. 
Department of Agriculture, 
U.S. Department of 
Defense, U.S. Department 
of Health and Human 
Services, U.S. Department 
of Labor, U.S. Drug 
Enforcement Agency, U.S. 
Environmental Protection 
Agency and U.S. Foo d and 
Drug Administration.  • Representation on advisory 
committees  
• Meetings, conferences and 
collaborations  
• Communication of studies that 
demonstrate health and 
economic benefits of Baxter’s 
products  
• Promotion of national  
sustainability 
programs/initiatives  
• Lobbying activities  • Baxter supports legislation/regulation that 
aligns with the company’s business and 
sustainability objectives.  
Group: Industry Organizations  
Description  Channels of Engagement  Example  
Includes AdvaMed, 
BIOTECanada, 
Biotechnology Indus try 
Organization, Eucomed, 
EuropaBio, European 
Federation of 
Pharmaceutical Industries 
and Associations, 
European Organization for 
Packaging and the 
Environment (EUROPEN), 
European Vaccines 
Manufacturers,  Institute 
for Supply Management, 
MEDEC, Plasma Pro tein • Board and committee meetings  
• Educational campaigns  
• Industry events  
• Collaborative lobbying on 
issues of mutual concern  • Baxter co -sponsored the 2010 
Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO)  
International Convention.  
• Baxter supported the inaugural World 
Primary Immunology Week in April 2011 in 
concert with global industry and 
advocacy organizations.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/economic -impacts/stakeholder -engagement.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Therapeutics Association 
and numerous physician 
organizations.  
Group: Investors  
Description  Channels of Engagement  Example  
Nearly 85% of Baxter’s 
shares a re held by 
institutional investors.  • Analyst/investor presentations 
and meetings  
• Socially responsible 
investment surveys  
• Quarterly earnings 
announcements and news 
releases  
• Webcasts/conference calls  
• Annual meeting  
• Road shows, one -on-one 
meetings and investor  visits to 
headquarters  • Baxter discloses its sustainability 
performance through this report to 
demonstrate the business value for 
investors of sustainability -related 
initiatives.  
Group: Non-Governmental and Other Organizations  
Description  Channels of Eng agement  Example  
Examples include 
AmeriCares,Boston College 
Center for Corporate 
Citizenship, Campaign for 
Greener Healthcare UK, 
Ceres, Chicago Climate 
Exchange, Climate 
Leaders, Compliance  and 
Ethical Leadership Council, 
The Conference Board, 
The Confere nce Board 
Contributions Council II, 
Corporate Executive 
Board, Corporate Voices 
for Working Families, 
Council on Foundations, 
Direct Relief International, 
Ethics & Compliance 
Officer Association, Global 
Reporting Initiative, 
Grantmakers in Health, 
Partners hip for Quality 
Medical Donations, Pew • Feedback on Baxter’s 2009 
Sustainability Report  
• Pre-publication  review of 
sections of Baxter’s 2010 
Sustainab ility Report with 
Ceres stakeholder  
• Participation on various 
committees  
• Attendance and presentations 
at sustainability -related 
conferences and events  • Baxter contributes to various white 
papers and reports issued by  
non-governmental organizations.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/economic -impacts/stakeholder -engagement.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Center on Global Climate 
Change, Society of 
Corporate Compliance and 
Ethics, and World Health 
Organization.  
Group:  Patients and Patient -Advocacy Groups  
Description  Channels of Engagement  Example  
Patients worldwide with 
cancer, hemophilia, immune 
disorders, infectious 
diseases, kidney disease, 
trauma and other 
conditions, as well as 
patient -advocacy groups.  • Strategic  Philanthropic Giving  
• Product donations and grants  
• Fundraising  
• Patient websites (i.e., There 
For You)  • Baxter support s certain programs through 
patient -advocacy groups, such as the 
World Federation of Hemophilia’s (WFH) 
Global Alliance for Progress (GAP) 
program, which works to improve the 
diagnosis and treatment of hemophilia in 
developing countries.  
Group: Suppliers  
Description  Channels of Engagement  Example  
Baxter works with a broad 
network of suppliers to 
provide product inputs and 
goods and services not 
used in products.  • Supplier Quality Standard  and 
Ethics and Compliance 
Standards for Baxter 
Suppliers  
• Sustainability language 
included in Baxter requests 
for proposal (RFP) and 
standard supplier agreement  
• Supplier audits and site visits  
• Environmental and et hics and 
compliance training and Ethics 
and Compliance Helpline  
• Lean and Green toolkit and 
Lean and Energy toolk it 
• Supplier diversity program  and 
Global Supplier Sustainability 
Program  
• Benchmarking sustainability 
programs with top suppliers  
• Rx-360 (International 
Pharmaceutical Supply Chain 
Consortium)  • Baxter collaborates with its suppliers to 
identify opportunities to reduce 
environmental impacts, improve suppliers’ 
environmental performance, and minimize 
transportation -related emissions.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/economic -impacts/stakeholder -engagement.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Group: Universities/Academ ia 
Description  Channels of Engagement  Example  
The Center for Corporate 
Citizenship at Boston 
College, Cornell University 
Johnson School of 
Management, Cranfield 
University UK, Illinois 
Institute of Technology, 
Northwestern University, 
University of Wisco nsin • Forums on sustainability and 
climate change  
• Information sharing about 
sustainability with 
administration, faculty and 
students  
• Select projects and student 
research  • Baxter opened “Baxter Scientia Japan at 
Nagoya University” to advance care and 
treatmen t of ESRD patients.  
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/affiliations -memberships.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Affiliations and Memberships  
Baxter and its employees engage with many professional, industry and business organizations, covering  
a variety of geographic areas, diseases, markets and sustainability issues. By participating in the se groups, 
Baxter can expand its influence, help raise industry standards, share and learn best practices, and advance 
discussions within and beyond the healthcare industry. Forming relationships with these associations helps 
Baxter engage with and meet th e ongoing needs of its relevant stakeholders.  
 
While impractical to include all organizations that Baxter belongs to or supports, the list below provides  
a representative sample.  
 
Advocacy C oalitions  
• Alliance for Work -Life Progress  
• Boston College Center f or Corporate Citizenship  
• Boston College Center for Work & Family  
• Catalyst  
• Center for Companies That Care  
• Corporate Voices for Working Families  
• National Safety Council  
• Partnership for Quality Medical Donations  
• Pew Center on Global Climate Change  
 
Environmen tal and Sustainability Organizations  
• Business for Social Responsibility  
• Canadian Business for Social Responsibility  
• Ceres  
• Chicago Climate Exchange (acquired by IntercontinentalExchange in 2010)  
• Global Reporting Initiative  
• National Environmental Education F oundation  
• SustainAbility Engaging Stakeholders Program  
  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/affiliations -memberships.html  
© Copyrig ht 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Industry Organizations  
• AdvaMed  
• Assobiomedica (Italy)  
• BIOTECanada  
• Biotechnology Industry Organization  
• EucoMed  
• EuropaBio  
• European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA)  
• Europ ean Organization for Packaging and the Environment (EUROPEN)  
• European Vaccine Manufacturers  
• Hemophilia Federation of America  
• Irish Business & Employers Confederation (IBEC) - Health & Safety Policy Committee  
• Institute for Supply Management  
• MEDEC  
• Plasma Pro tein Therapeutics Association  
• Rx-360 (International Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Consortium)  
• US-ASEAN Business Council  
• VCI Association of Chemical Industry (Germany)  
 
Patient Organizations  
• Alpha -1 Foundation  
• American Association of Kidney Patients  
• Dialysis Patient Citizens  
• Immune Deficiency Foundation  
• Hemophilia Federation of America  
• International Society of Peritoneal Dialysis North American Chapter  
• Jeffrey Modell Foundation  
• National Hemophilia Foundation  
• Nkational Kidney Foundation  
• The Oley Foundation  
• World Federation of Hemophilia  
 
Professional Organizations  
• American Association of Critical -Care Nurses  
• American Nephrology Nurses Association   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/affiliations -memberships.html  
© Copyrig ht 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
• American Society of Anesthesiologists  
• American Society of Health -System Pharmacists  
• American Society of Nephrology  
• American Society of Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition  
• The Auditing Roundtable  
• Board Source  
• Corporate Executive Board Compliance and Ethics Leadership Council  
• Council on Foundations  
• Ethics & Compliance Officer Association  
• Ethisphere Council  
• Grantmakers in He alth 
• International Society of Nephrology  
• Institute of Environmental Management and Assessment (IEMA)  
• Institute of Occupational Safety and Health (IOSH)  
• Institute for Safe Medicine Practices  
• Institute for Supply Management  
• NAEM (formerly National Associatio n for Environmental Management)  
• National Minority Supplier Development Council, Inc.  
• Renal Physicians Association  
• Society of Corporate Compliance and Ethics (SCCE)  
• Women's Economic Development Organization  
 
Regional and Local Organizations  
• Asociación Colom biana de Hospitales y Clínicas (ACHC)  
• Asociación Venezolana de Equipos Médicos (AVEDEM)  
• Associação Brasileira dos Importadores de Equipamentos, Produtos e Suprimentos Médicos -Hospitalares 
(Abimed) (Brazil)  
• Australian and New Zealand Society of Nephrology  
• BioCrossroads (Indiana)  
• Cámara Industria Farmacéutica en Chile (ASILFA) (Chile)  
• Campaign for Greener Healthcare - Green Nephrology Group  
• Canadian College of Health Service Executives  
• Canadian Patient Safety Institute   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/affiliations -memberships.html  
© Copyrig ht 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
• Chicago United  
• The Commercial Club of Chicago  
• Donors Forum (Illinois)  
• Illinois Biotechnology Industry Organization  
• Green Building Council Italia  
• Japan Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association  
• Korea Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association  
• National Center for Asia -Pacific Economic Cooperation  
• Pharmanet  
• Puerto Rico Manufacturers Association  
• Sociedad Argentina de Farmacia y Bioquímica (SAFIBY)   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/affiliations -memberships.html  
© Copyrig ht 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
  
Sustainability 
Priorities and 
Goals   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/index.html  
© Copyri ght 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Priorities and Goals  
 
Baxter’s nine sustainability priorities fall into three broad categories: Our People, Our Operations and Products , 
and Our World. These priorities reflect the sustainability issues that are most material to Baxter and areas 
where the company is uniquely positioned to have a positive impact.  
Baxter’s 2015 performance goals for each priority demonstrate the company’s c ommitment, motivate  
continual improvement and help stakeholders assess performance. The company’s chief executive officer  
and its Operations Committee endorse these priorities and goals. This framework serves as a foundation  
for the company’s sustainabi lity efforts, as well as its yearly sustainability reporting.  
Some of the company’s sustainability priorities, such as “Baxter Will Drive Reductions in its Natural Resource 
Use,” focus on the short -term, geared towards cost savings and risk reduction. Othe rs, such as “Baxter Will 
Strengthen Access to Healthcare,” take a longer view, with an emphasis on creating new business models and 
revenue generation. Some are directed towards internal operations, such as “Baxter Will Promote a Safe and 
Healthy Workplace ,” while others are externally focused towards customers and other stakeholders, such as 
“Baxter Will Drive Enhanced Product Stewardship.” The company’s priorities balance and complement each 
other along these dimensions, and support the company’s current and possible future business models.  
 Operator Harold Mina works in the steam sterilizer control room at Baxter's Cali, Colombia manufacturing plant.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/index.html  
© Copyri ght 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
The Sustainability Steering Committee routinely reviews the relevance of Baxter’s sustainability priorities  
and goals to determine whether any require updating.  
This interactive graphic outlines Baxter’s sustainabili ty priorities and goals, and links to progress updates  
for each priority.  
  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/index.html  
© Copyri ght 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  
  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/index.html  
© Copyri ght 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter. com/priorities -goals/our -people/safe -and-healthy -workplace.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baxter continually searches for ways to further decrease the potential for injury in the workplace by identifying 
and addressing the main sources of incidents.  The company demonstrates its commitment to employee 
wellness by offering health -awareness and enhancement programs.  
 
In 2009, the most recent year data were available, Baxter's cases with days lost rate ranked third among 
industry peers.1 
In 2010, Baxter  experienced a 7% decrease in the recordable case rate, but a 13% increase in the cases  
with days lost rate and a 10% increase in the days lost rate. This worsening of performance occurred after  
four years of significant progress in reducing injuries and  illnesses.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -people/safe -and-healthy -workplace.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
To keep overall performance in perspective, since 2005, Baxter's:  
• Recordable case rate decreased by 34%  
• Cases with days lost rate reduced by 45%  
• Days lost rate decreased by 36%  
 
Employee Safety  
 
Since 2008, Baxter has applied Hazard identific ation (HI) and risk assessment (RA) to improve safety 
performance and enable Baxter to understand the main causes of employee injury and illness and tailor 
programs to address them. In 2010, using this approach, the company identified two areas of focus: B axter's 
Renal Home Patient Delivery drivers and the company's Contractor Safety Policy and program. Baxter's  
safety team formed a task force to address the Renal delivery group's needs, resulting in benchmarking with 
companies that perform similar work an d developing enhanced post -accident analysis tools and data analysis 
strategies. Baxter's EHS team also focused on the company's Contractor Safety Policy and program to 
redefine higher risk activities that warrant increased planning and focus on risk.  
Near -miss reporting, a type of hazard identification and risk assessment, identifies incidents that might have 
resulted in injury, illness or damage but did not, which helps the company avoid  similar events in the future.  
In 2010, Baxter exceeded its goal to implement a near miss identification program in 75% of identified facilities 
based on risk, reaching 91% of those facilities (60 sites total with about 32,500 employees).  
2010 Safety Performance * 
Recordable Case Rate  1.00 (improved 7% from 2009)  
Cases Wi th Days Lost Rate  0.17(worsened by 13% from 2009)  
Days Lost Rate  4.56 (worsened by 10% from 2009)  
Restricted Days Rate  14.59 (worsened by 15% from 2009)  
Employee/Contractor Serious Incidents ** 5/0*** 
Employee/Contractor Fatalities  0/0 
    *All rates b ased on 100 full -time employees working one year, which equals a total of 200,000 work hours. For tracking purposes, Baxter applies  
U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration recordkeeping practices worldwide. Thus, in cases where an injury occurs  and there are conflicting 
medical opinions as to the number of days away and/or restricted days that should be recorded, Baxter records on the basis of the most authoritative 
physician's opinion. Cases with days lost: work -related injuries or illnesses th at cause an employee to lose at least one full day after the date of the incident. 
Days lost: number of days lost recommended by the most authoritative physician's opinion (including weekends and holidays) due to a work -related injury or 
illness. Restricte d days: number of days recommended by the most authoritative physician's opinion that an employee or supervised contractor is unable to 
work full duty (including weekends and holidays) due to a work -related injury or illness. Baxter does not count the date  of injury and date of return to full duty  
as restricted days. Recordable cases: work -related injuries or illnesses requiring medical attention beyond first -aid, including cases with days lost.  
  **Serious workplace incident cases are those that result in  an employee or contractor being hospitalized overnight, sustaining an amputation or dying.  
***Five serious incidents occurred in 2010, one involving two employees.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -people/safe -and-healthy -workplace.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Health and Wellness  
BeWell@Baxter is the company's umbrella program for its health and we llness initiatives, and the Personal 
Wellness Profile is its cornerstone. This online health risk assessment tool helps employees understand how 
lifestyle choices, family history and other factors impact their health. Aggregate data from the tool provides 
companywide and facility -level information on health risk. Thirty -two percent of Baxter's employees worldwide 
completed a Personal Wellness Profile by the end of 2010, exceeding the goal of 30%.  
Based on this health risk data, in 2010 the company launched two major health promotion campaigns.  
The BeWell@Baxter Exercise Challenge, held in May, was designed to increase exercise levels. Throughout  
the month, nearly 12,000 employees at 80 Baxter locations participated, logging more than 100,000 hours  
of exer cise.  
Healthy Eating Month was launched in the month of November to support improved nutrition. More than 35%  
of employees, at 90 facilities worldwide, participated in events such as healthy cooking contests, quizzes and 
demonstrations, and onsite seminar s from registered dieticians and herbalists.  
Other health and wellness highlights during 2010 included the following:  
• Baxter made seasonal flu vaccination available to 96.4% of all employees, and 40% participated.  
• The company implemented Health Promotion P rograms in 94% of facilities, surpassing its goal of 90%.  
 
Baxter made progress on its smoke -free workplaces initiative, with 86% of facilities completely smoke -free. 
1 Out of 19 healthcare companies reporting global safety data to Mercer (formerly ORC), B axter ranked third in cases with days lost rate in 2009. Mercer is an 
international management and human resources consulting firm. 2010 data were not available at the time of publication of this report.  
 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -people/inclusive -and-diverse -workplace.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baxter strives to create an inclusive cu lture that fosters respect and enables all employees to work together 
effectively. The driving force behind Baxter’s focus on inclusion and diversity is to ensure there is an inclusive 
work environment that attracts and retains a globally diverse workforce  equipped to identify and capitalize on 
opportunities that enhance the company’s products and services worldwide.  
 
In 2010, members of Baxter’s Global Inclusion Council developed an inclusion plan tailored to each of the 
company’s businesses, regions and functions. This customized approach reflects the fact that many aspects  
of inclusion vary by location and by the activities of that business, region and function. For example, Baxter’s 
BioScience business partnered with local women - and minority -focused o rganizations to help employees  
better understand inclusion principles. Baxter’s Thousand Oaks, California, United States, facility hosted  
an Association of Women in Science monthly symposium. In Austria, through a partnership with Vienna’s 
University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences’ FIRST (Females in Research, Science, and Technology) 
project, Baxter recruited five women to complete their master’s theses in fields related to quality, manufacturing 
and research and development at the company’s Vienn a facility.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -people/inclusive -and-diverse -workplace.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter  International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Baxter continues to work to increase ethnic and gender diversity throughout the company. For example,  
the Finance department increased the diversity of participants in its Financial Development Program by 
enhancing and expanding relationship s with diverse universities for recruiting purposes, and more effectively 
retaining talent. As a result, the department reported significant improvement in diversity hires and promotions 
for its 2011 program: women received 67% of open leadership positions  (vs. 43% in 2010) and minority 
individuals received 44% (vs. 18% in 2010).  
All of Baxter’s senior executive leaders included an inclusion and diversity objective focused on the 
improvement of gender and/or ethnic minority representation and a more inclusi ve work environment  
in their annual performance plans, demonstrating commitment from the top down. Also during 2010,  
the Global Inclusion Council partnered with the company’s Global Human Resources group to embed  
inclusion and diversity principles into several existing programs and processes. The group spearheaded  
the development and roll -out of a mandatory inclusion awareness training program for all employees.  
The program focuses on the importance of inclusion and diversity to Baxter’s success, and e xplains how 
employees can contribute to an inclusive culture. Launched in October, 76% of employees completed the 
course by the end of the year, 11% more than Baxter’s target. The company expects all employees to 
complete the training by the end of the sec ond quarter in 2011.  
Baxter also continues to focus on developing mutually beneficial relationships with small and diverse  
suppliers, which contributes to overall economic vitality and reflects Baxter’s diverse employee and  
customer base. In 2010, Baxter  spent more than $490 million with small businesses in the United States  
and Puerto Rico. The company spent approximately $97 million with women -owned businesses and  
$33 million with minority -owned firms during the year.  
 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -people/ethical -conduct -legal -compliance.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter Inter national Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
 
 
Corruption poses a signif icant challenge to the global economy. It is an impediment to sustainable 
development, increases inequality, undermines public institutions, and dampens economic growth.  
For companies, corruption adds to the cost of doing business, represents significant legal and reputational 
risks and creates unsustainable business relationships. Baxter realizes that its ongoing business success 
relies on a sustainable business model in which Baxter and its partners market and sell the company's 
products in an ethical wa y that complies with applicable laws around the globe.  
 
Baxter has policies governing its interactions with healthcare professionals 
and government officials in every region of the world. The company 
encourages open discussion of questions and concerns t o avoid 
inappropriate decision -making or actions that potentially violate standards. 
Baxter employees are obligated to raise perceived violations of standards 
regarding the company's financial affairs, accounting practices, auditing 
matters, corruption, fr aud, or other serious concerns. A variety of local and 
global channels may be used to raise questions or concerns, including a 
website, a hotline, regional ethics and compliance committees and other 
ethics and compliance personnel, and Baxter's Corporate R esponsibility 
Office.  
Major efforts in 2010 focused on finalizing the company's Third Party Policy, 
which completes the suite of policies that underpin Baxter's anticorruption 
compliance program. The Third Party Policy applies to business entities 
and indi viduals that conduct the following activities outside the United States on Baxter's behalf:  
• Marketing, promoting or selling Baxter products;  
• Negotiating or executing Baxter agreements;  
 
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/prioritie s-goals/our -people/ethical -conduct -legal -compliance.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
• Lobbying or advocating for Baxter;  
• Interacting with non -U.S. governme nt officials; and  
• Remunerating healthcare professionals or other relevant entities.  
 
While Baxter's existing anticorruption policies prohibit Baxter and third parties from providing inappropriate 
payments or benefits to foreign government officials, health care professionals and other entities, the Third 
Party Policy provides a consistent process to conduct due diligence on business partners, and to retain  
and train them with respect to anticorruption laws and Baxter's expectations.  
In the United States in 2010, Baxter piloted a robust approach to educating its U.S. business teams on  
U.S. healthcare compliance issues, and revamped its e -learning course on the subject, which it launched  
in early 2011.  
Also in 2010, Baxter continued to implement its risk -based anticorruption education program to provide 
awareness -level training to most employees, and more advanced training to employees who regularly  
interact with government officials and healthcare professionals. During the year, Baxter conducted more  
than 170 international anticorruption training sessions, reaching nearly 5,000 employees in targeted positions, 
and delivered more than 65 U.S. healthcare compliance training sessions to more than 1,800 employees.  
 
In 2010, Baxter evaluated a number of the mor e than 100 country -level organizations and 22 regional, global 
and multilateral organizations it identified in 2009 to prioritize with whom to collaborate to create industry -level 
codes of practice related to product marketing and sales. While Baxter deter mined it could not devote the 
resources to actively engage with any of these organizations in 2010, the company continues to view this as  
a long -term opportunity. At a regional level, Baxter continues to participate in Eucomed's efforts to support 
ethical  marketing and sales practices in the European Union.  
The company also researched broader anticorruption initiatives such as the United Nations Global Compact 
and the World Economic Forum Partnering Against Corruption Initiative, but has not yet determined  whether  
to endorse those efforts.   
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -operations -products/green -supply -chain.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A significant amount of Baxter's broader environmental impacts occur within its supply chain. Baxter 
concentrates its efforts to green its supply chain on minimizing transportation -related emissions, procurin g  
raw materials and other goods and services with reduced environmental impacts, and promoting suppliers 
improving their environmental performance.  
 
In 2010, Baxter's U.S. car fleet emitted 10,200 metric tons carbon dioxide equivalent (CO 2e) of greenhous e gas 
(GHG) emissions. Baxter's average GHG emissions per mile declined by 0.3% below the 2007 baseline, 
mainly due to a shift to the use of four cylinder vehicles from six cylinder vehicles.  
Baxter began adding four cylinder vehicles to its fleet in 2008 and is increasingly doing so as cars come up  
for renewal. Baxter expects to see ongoing incremental improvements in GHG emissions from its auto fleet  
as this trend continues.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -operations -products/green -supply -chain.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Starting in 2010, Baxter only offered SmartWay™ certified vehicles on its main selection list, covering  
95% of the company's United States car fleet upon replacement. Baxter also implemented a pilot of hybrid 
vehicles with its sales force in 2011.  
Baxter has faced challenges in making progress against this goal, such as meeting driver requests while 
maintaining costs and reducing emissions. In 2009, Baxter found that the actual fuel efficiency varied from 
manufacturers' claims on a new model that many U.S.  drivers had in 2009, which negatively impacted 
progress against the goal. To address this, Baxter selected new vehicle manufacturers in 2010 and only 
selected model types more than one year old to ensure reliable data exist on the model. Baxter also  
continued its benchmark against other companies through Baxter's fleet management partner to determine 
best practices.  
 
In 2010, Baxter continued to roll out its Global Supplier Sustainability Program, which includes an initiative  
to procure products and ser vices that help the company reduce its environmental impact while maintaining 
continuity of supply and managing costs. Approximately 70% of the initiatives comprising the Global Supplier 
Sustainability Program are implemented at the regional or country lev el. 
In 2010, Baxter created an internal Global Supplier Sustainability Council to provide oversight for implementing 
the company's Global Supplier Sustainability program worldwide. The Council meets quarterly to encourage 
employee engagement and address ob stacles in implementing the program locally.  
Since 2009, Baxter has incorporated 20 green criteria into its purchasing procedures to provide its 
procurement organization a framework to evaluate suppliers' sustainability initiatives. Baxter structured these  
criteria to fall into four categories that align with Baxter's own sustainability efforts. In 2010, Baxter added a fifth 
category to evaluate suppliers' protection of human rights since Baxter considers this an important component 
of suppliers' sustainabi lity commitments. Baxter conducted its second annual survey of its select 100 suppliers 
in 2010 to evaluate suppliers' performance against these green criteria ( see table and discussion).   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -operations -products/green -supply -chain.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Baxter Annual Supplier Sustainability Survey Results  
% Green *  2009 ** 2010  
Environmental / Sustainability Program  
Example criteria: Measures and reports environmental information  34% 30% 
Protection of Human Rights  
Example criteria: Has a goal and programs to prevent & reduce work -
related injuries  (added in 2010)  88% 
Reductions in Carbon Footprint  
Example criteria: Has a goal and program to reduce GHG emissions  46% 61% 
Reduction in Natural Resources Use  
Example criteria: Has a goal and activities to reduce waste generation  61% 55% 
Enhanced Product Stewardship  
Exam ple criteria: Uses a product stewardship / life cycle approach  24% 35% 
 
* Suppliers considered green in category when responding positively ("yes" or "in progress") to 90% of those questions in category.  
**2009 Results modified to include suppliers respon ding positively to programs "in progress."  
 
Baxter continued its e -Impact program to recognize employees and suppliers for impactful environmental 
initiatives. (See Case Study: Baxter Recognizes Suppliers through e -Impact Program for recent examples.)  
Integrating sustainability language in request for proposal (RFP) and supplier contract templates is another 
core aspect of Baxter's program. In 2010, Australia, Brazil, Colombia, Mexico, and New Zealand implemented 
these changes, in addition to Canada and the  United States which had done so previously.  
Baxter's efforts to drive a sustainable supply chain extend beyond these two 2015 goals. Please see the 
Supply Chain section in this report to learn more, including regarding the company's material compliance 
project, water scarcity strategy, efforts to reduce product transport -related emissions, and participation in the 
U.S. Customs -Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C -TPAT) program.  
 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -operations -products/carbon -footprint.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
 
 
 
 
The impacts of global warming and climate change became more evide nt in 2010, underscoring the 
importance of reducing absolute greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The Earth’s average surface  
temperatures during 2010 tied 2005 as the hottest in 131 years of recordkeeping.1 During the year a  
drought in Russia severely impact ed food production,2 and the worst flooding in Pakistan in 80 years  
displaced 10% of the country’s citizens.3 These may be signs of a warming world.  
Companies have a central role to play in addressing climate change. Baxter’s focus includes energy 
conserv ation, use of high -efficiency technologies such as cogeneration of heat and electricity, use of  
bio-fuels and other renewable energy sources, and purchase of carbon credits. The company strives to 
demonstrate robust disclosure of GHG emissions and is work ing with its business partners to do the same  
(see Product Transport and Global Green Supply Chain).  
 
In 2010, Baxter’s GHG emissions from operations equaled 739,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent 
(CO 2e), a 29% reduction indexed to revenue comp ared to 2005, and an absolute reduction of 7%. This 
includes emissions from Baxter -operated facilities and vehicles, as well as the subtraction of purchased 
renewable energy certificates (RECs), carbon credits, and carbon offsets.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -operations -products/carbon -footprint.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International I nc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Energy use represents  approximately 96% of Baxter’s GHG emissions from operations, so energy 
conservation is the cornerstone of the company’s emissions reduction program (see Natural Resource Use  
for detail).  
Baxter complements its efforts with the purchase of RECs, carbon cr edits and carbon offsets, representing 
62,000 tons of CO ₂e in 2010. In 2010, the company bought 78,300 megawatt hours of 100% certified 
renewable power in Austria and Spain and 51,500 megawatt hours of certified RECs in the United States, 
making Baxter the  23rd largest corporate purchaser in the United States.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -operations -products/carbon -footprint.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International I nc. All Rights Reserved.   
Baxter supports the application of market -based carbon trading programs to reduce GHG emissions.  
The company has participated in the Chicago Climate Exchange (CCX, now IntercontinentalExchange)  
since 2003 (as a founding member), including its direct emissions from all operations in Canada, Mexico, 
Puerto Rico and the United States. Baxter also has one facility involved in the European Union Emissions 
Trading Scheme (since 2005).  
Through the purchas e of RECs and carbon credits, Baxter has achieved carbon neutrality related to its  
onsite fuel consumption and electricity use at three locations, including its corporate headquarters in Deerfield, 
Illinois, United States.  
 
In 2010, 18% of Baxter’s energ y use in operations was from renewable sources, an increase from 17%  
in 2005. Of this, 8% was from a wood boiler the company uses to produce steam at its site in Marion,  
North Carolina, United States, and 10% was the renewable energy component of purchas ed electricity,  
the purchase of RECs, and electricity generated by onsite solar systems.  
The installation of onsite renewable energy projects continues to be a challenge for Baxter. This is primarily 
due to relatively low project payback periods, even tho ugh the company has reduced its minimum required 
internal rate of return for energy projects.  
1 U.S. National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Research Finds 2010 Tied for Warmest Year on Record, Goddard Institute for Space  
 Studies (GISS), New  York, New York, United States.  
2 United Nations Environmental Programme, Global Resource Information Database, 2010 drought and associated fires destroyed 20 percent of  
  Russia’s wheat crop.  
3 United Nations Department of Public Information, News and Me dia Division, New York, New York, United States.  
 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -operations -products/natural -resource -use.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. Al l Rights Reserved.   
 
 
 
 
 
Strong population growth in many regions combined with rapid economic development in countries worldwide 
place enormous strain on materials, energy and water. Baxter works to use these limited res ources wisely to 
improve the company’s environmental performance while also enhancing its bottom line.  
  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -operat ions-products/natural -resource -use.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  
 
In 2010, Baxter generated 59,370 metric tons of waste (including 54,000 metric tons non -hazardous and 5,370 
metric tons regulated), a reduction of 2 0% compared to 2005, indexed to revenue.  
The company initiated a formal program in 2010 to reduce plastic waste, Baxter’s largest waste stream. Initial 
activities included analyzing existing data, defining a project team and establishing project metrics. S ee more 
detail.  
 
Baxter’s primary energy sources are electricity to power manufacturing equipment, lighting and critical 
systems, and fuels to generate steam for water purification and sterilization. In 2010, the company used  
8,875 trillion joules of ene rgy, 20% less than in 2005, indexed to revenue.  
Baxter’s main focus is increasing energy efficiency in its manufacturing operations. The company uses a 
“Lean” energy program to drive enhancements throughout Baxter. The company’s global energy management 
initiatives have resulted in total savings of approximately $31 million since 2005, including $500,000 in 2010.  
Baxter also applies innovative energy -saving technologies. In 2010, the company launched a new 
cogeneration unit at its Castlebar, Ireland, facili ty. The 3 megawatt unit uses natural gas reciprocating engines 
to generate electricity, hot water and steam. These units are typically 30 percent more energy efficient than 
traditional generators. See more detail.  
 
In its packaging, Baxter works to minimi ze materials use and select materials with decreased environmental 
impact. The company focuses packaging innovation on its high -volume products. Since the base year of 2007, 
Baxter has implemented projects that have reduced the amount of packaging sent to customers by 3,500   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -operat ions-products/natural -resource -use.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  metric tons, including 247 metric tons in 2010. For example, in 2010, the company’s Cuernavaca, Mexico, 
facility completed a project begun in 2008 to modify the shipping cartons and increase the packaging  
efficiency for several produc t lines. This initiative has reduced packaging by approximately 1,600 metrics  
tons cumulatively during the last three years. As a result of companywide initiatives, Baxter has achieved  
70% of its 2015 packaging goal. See more detail.  
 
Baxter’s main use o f water is for manufacturing -related processes such as cooling towers, sterilizers and 
steam boilers. In 2010, the company used 13.4 million cubic meters of water, 31% less than in 2005,  
indexed to revenue.  
The company’s overall water usage continues to d ecline, driven by water conservation projects such as  
the Singapore, Woodlands, facility, whose “Green Committee” implemented projects to optimize cleaning 
processes in 2010, saving 14,000 cubic meters of water during the year. Baxter identifies these typ es  
of opportunities through formal energy assessments, water value stream mapping, water balances, and  
facility -driven initiatives.  
Using tools from the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), in 2009 Baxter mapped 
its water use at ma jor sites globally against local water availability. While the WBCSD water tool has helped 
Baxter screen operations located in potentially water -scarce or -stressed areas, Baxter plans to conduct further 
analysis to understand the full water risk at each l ocation. Based on this information, the company will develop 
a more comprehensive water risk management strategy, and set more rigorous water conservation goals.  
See more detail.  
 
Results from the WBCSD water tool showed that of Baxter’s 40 largest water -consuming locations, 
representing 92% of the company’s total water use, 10 of those sites are located in water -scarce areas, eight 
in water -stressed areas and 22 in water -sufficient areas. The company is using that information during 2011  
to prioritize po ssible locations in which to support community aquifer protection projects. See more detail.  
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -operation s-products/product -stewardship.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
 
 
Baxter is dedicated to creating products that save and sustain people' s lives worldwide. The company  
is committed to doing so in a way that minimizes envir onmental impacts. This requires a holistic view,  
from the early stages of design and materials selection through product manufacture, transport and  
ultimately, end -of-life. 
 
 
Baxter's sustainable design program begins with Product Sustainability Review  (PSR), an assessment  
applied during the early stages of product development to all medical devices, ranging from intravenous  
(IV) solution containers to dialysis machines. Baxter uses results to confirm product feasibility, help establish 
product requir ements and minimize potential product health and environmental impacts. Baxter also completes 
life cycle assessments (LCA) of certain products to further evaluate product design. The PSR and LCA 
processes have contributed to the following accomplishments:  
• In 2009, FLEXBUMIN [Albumin (Human)], became the world's first and only medical product to receive  
Carbon Reduction certification from the Carbon Trust.  
• In 2010, Baxter launched the new XENIUM+ synthetic dialyzer, which is 13 -16% lighter than the company' s 
previously developed dialyzers, which reduces fuel consumption in shipping and decreases biohazard  
waste removal.  
• In 2010, an LCA of the aluminum packaging (compared to traditional glass containers) for two anesthetic 
gasses, SUPRANE (desflurane, USP) a nd Sevoflurane, identified ways to further improve the environmental 
footprint of the aluminum containers.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -operations -products/product -stewardship.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Baxter continues to make progress in defining the material chemical content of substances and parts that the 
company purchases for use in its produ cts. This will help Baxter to understand if key chemicals of concern are 
present and to meet global regulations.  
To meet the preferences of some customers and requirements of regulators in a few specific clinical 
applications, Baxter has and will continue to invest in new platforms and systems that meet these needs.  
The company is working closely with suppliers and external stakeholders to develop a variety of materials  
that meet the unique design, regulatory, clinical and commercial requirements of indiv idual product lines  
and markets.  
In 2011, the company plans to expand use of PSR in its BioScience business. Baxter also intends to update 
the PSR process to increase focus on chemicals of concern and more comprehensively address customer 
interests and em erging regulations in this area.  
To extend the useful life of some of its electronic medical products, Baxter offers repair and refurbishment 
services in Europe and the United States. The company assessed the feasibility of an electronic product 
recycling program in North America in 2009, but determined that the estimated environmental benefits  
would not merit the required financial investment.  
 
Baxter supports the conscientious use of animals in research only when no other valid scientific alternative 
exists to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of its life saving and sustaining products.  
Baxter's Global Animal Welfare Committee (GAWC) is comprised of internal veterinary professionals and 
animal scientists whose goals are to enhance current programs  and to identify and develop new opportunities 
to optimize animal welfare. The committee is sponsored by the company's Chief Scientific Officer Norbert G. 
Riedel, PhD and oversees standards of animal welfare across Baxter's global operations and contract  
research organizations including academic institutions.  
Among Baxter's accomplishments in this area in 2010, the company expanded the use of cell culture  
for vaccine manufacture, replaced animal use in certain general safety testing where local regulation s  
allow, implemented cell -based tests for specific antibody -based products, consolidated testing plans for 
biotherapeutics manufacture (thereby reducing animal testing), and applied state -of-the-art sampling and 
imaging techniques which reduce the need fo r invasive testing and decrease animal stress.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -operations -products/product -stewardship.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Baxter's animal research facilities are fully accredited by the Association for the Assessment and  
Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International (AAALAC), which evaluates organizations that use 
anim als in research, teaching or testing. In the United States, the company's facilities are registered and 
inspected regularly by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and are in compliance with Public Health 
Service Policy as governed by the Office of La boratory Animal Welfare of the U.S. Department of Health  
and Human Services. Outside the United States, Baxter's animal facilities and programs are regularly 
inspected by relevant government agencies and comply with all applicable laws and regulations.  
 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -world/access -to-healthcare.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
 
 
 
 
Ineffective infrastructure, political instability, lack of education and poverty continue to limit many people 
around the world from receiving healthcare. Inadequate availability and affordability of medical products also 
contribute to these chall enges. Baxter recognizes that for its access to healthcare strategy to be sustainable,  
it must comprise both a responsible commercial strategy and a charitable product donation component. As a 
global healthcare company focused on innovation, Baxter is com mitted to increasing access to healthcare 
through product and business model improvements, as well as cash and product donations.  
 
In recognition of Baxter's global reach delivering healthcare products, in 2010 Baxter changed its approach in 
an effort to improve access to the "base of the pyramid" (BoP).2 The company continued its collaboration with 
Professor Stuart Hart from Cornell University and the Enterprise for a Sustainable World (ESW), refining its 
process to investigate BoP opportunities that more  clearly align with Baxter’s business objectives. The team 
considered Baxter's current market experience along with the company's current and emerging technologies to 
understand where the company is currently close to the BoP or has technology well suited for use in the BoP. 
The resulting analysis of current market experience and technologies will provide a solid foundation for 
identifying future opportunities and approaches to improve access to healthcare for the BoP.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -world/access -to-healthcare.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Due in part to significant transitio ns within the company's regional and business organizations, progress on  
this area of Baxter's sustainability program was slower than expected. Changes in management resulted in 
changes in the BoP leadership team's composition and also meant that BoP effo rts in 2010 were mainly 
focused on engaging senior management and the business teams on what a strategy on addressing 
healthcare needs at the base of the pyramid would entail. With a new team in place and considerable feedback 
from each of Baxter's BioScie nce and Medical Products businesses, the team re -aligned its efforts and more 
immediate tasks from what it originally anticipated accomplishing in 2010. In order to work toward solutions for 
the BoP, the team realized it needed to better understand challen ges related to global healthcare reform and 
continuity of care for patients who currently access Baxter's products and treatments. It also was apparent  
that on a local level, there were many efforts underway to improve access to care for those in the BoP.  
Consequently, the BoP leadership team is working with ESW to catalog those efforts and learn from them  
in any long -term approach that the company may choose to develop.  
During 2011, the BoP team will take the following steps:  
• Develop criteria to assess c urrent and future products for relevance to the BoP;  
• Inventory and analyze Baxter's current BoP initiatives; and  
 
Analyze the company's portfolio of emerging technologies for potential fit with BoP needs (in conjunction  
with managers from Baxter corporate  and business research & development groups).  
 
During 2010, Baxter continued its major donor partnerships with AmeriCares and Direct Relief International 
(DRI). Baxter collaborates closely with these organizations to develop a yearly product donation plan  to help 
ensure Baxter's critical healthcare products are available where and when needed. Strategic shipments from 
Baxter made in the spring of 2010 positioned AmeriCares and DRI to pull from inventory and provide products 
valued at approximately $70,000 in support of flood relief efforts in Pakistan and India.  
Baxter is among a select group of companies to implement this strategic, proactive approach to product 
donations, which improves the efficiency and effectiveness of the overall donation process and eliminates  
"fire drill" responses to disasters. It also reduces waste because AmeriCares and DRI can anticipate what  
to expect from Baxter so are less likely to request unneeded supplies from other companies.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -world/access -to-healthcare.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
In 2010, Baxter's long -standing relationshi ps with these organizations also helped facilitate timely, targeted 
support in response to the January 2010 earthquake and subsequent cholera outbreak in Haiti. Directly after 
the earthquake struck, Baxter worked closely with DRI to bypass DRI's standard p rocess of shipping products 
to its warehouse in Santa Barbara, California, United States and instead used Baxter's distribution expertise  
to pack and ship six trailer truckloads — more than 11 metric tons — of donated antibiotics, IV solutions and 
other v ital products valued at more than $2.2 million directly to Port -au-Prince, Haiti. As a result, Baxter 
products reached patients two weeks sooner than otherwise.  
In October, in the midst of the country's subsequent cholera outbreak, Baxter was uniquely posi tioned to 
provide Iife -saving medical products, including IV solutions and sets used to administer the solutions, to help 
hydrate those affected by waterborne bacteria through a donation to AmeriCares. In total, Baxter's overall 
charitable giving in respon se to the Haiti earthquake totaled $7.7 million, and the company continues to work 
with these donor partners to assess ongoing relief needs in the country.  
 
1 After further analysis, the Baxter Sustainability Steering Committee decided in 2010 to replace the original goals — “By 2010, assess existing products  
for relevance to the ‘base of the pyramid’ (developing economies) and identify high -impact, economically viable product opportunities” and “Increase R&D 
investment from 2008 to healthcare for the ‘ba se of the pyramid’” — with this new goal.  
2 The term "base of the pyramid" refers to the approximately 4 billion people who live on less than $1,500 annually and have limited access to the healthcare 
market. Companies developing and marketing products and services have typically overlooked this group, instead targeting people with more money to spend 
at the "top of the pyramid." In recent years, more companies have extended products to the "middle of the pyramid," often referred to as an "emerging economy" 
strategy.  
 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -world/education.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
As a science - and technology -based healthcare company, Baxter has a responsibility and need to ensure  
that current students as well as future generations have the opportunity to learn and be inspired by math and 
science. Baxter’s com mitment to education focuses on enhancing local math and science education programs 
to prepare students for scientific careers. The United States is particularly challenged with improving its math 
and science curriculum in its schools, and as a Chicago -based company, Baxter decided to focus its 
involvement in the Chicago Public School system.  
 
 
In 2008, Baxter launched Science@Work: Expanding Minds with Real -World Science, a multi -year 
commitment to Chicago Public Schools (CPS) to support teacher training and student development in 
healthcare and biotechnology. The program is the largest corporate donation to biotechnology education  
in CPS history.  
In the 2009 -2010 school year, the program reached more than 32,000 students and nearly 300 teachers in  
150 s chools. Baxter hosted 22 events for teachers and students including lab tours, lectures, career days and   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -world/education.html  
© Copyright 2011 B axter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
problem -based learning projects, including an experiment to help students understand how easily bacteria are 
transferred from humans to objects.  
In 2010, Science@Work achieved a milestone with the opening of Instituto Health Sciences Career Academy 
(IHSCA), a new Chicago high school dedicated to preparing students for healthcare careers. The institution, 
which will serve 600 students when fully enroll ed, focuses on providing Latinos with education and preparation 
to pursue professions that meet the nation's healthcare needs. In 2010, Baxter also continued its work with the 
Lindblom Math and Science Academy's Biotechnology Center of Excellence and the I llinois Institute of 
Technology Instructional Development Program to provide in -depth biotechnology teacher training and lesson 
plans to 90 CPS high school teachers.  
In addition to the direct benefit that Baxter's investment in the CPS system provides for teachers and  
students, this initiative provides a substantial way for Baxter employees to engage with diverse students and 
bring sustainability to life in the classrooms. In addition to the biotechnology curriculum, Baxter employees 
have taught students a bout clean water and other environmental topics, connecting math and science to real 
life environmental challenges. From Baxter's inclusion and talent recruiting perspective, this initiative also 
provides a longer -term view to creating a pipeline of talent ed young people who may be interested in Baxter 
careers in the future.  
Other STEM Education Initiatives  
 
Junior Achievement  
Baxter supports Junior Achievement, a global organization that teaches students the fundamentals of the free 
market and entrepreneur ship throughout the United States and in 122 countries around the world. In 2010,  
401 Baxter volunteers, including the company's senior leaders, spent nearly 1,600 hours teaching financial 
literacy to almost 8,500 students ages 6 to 15 in classrooms aroun d the world.  
FIRST Robotics  
As a founding member of US FIRST (For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology) Robotics  
in 1992, Baxter continues a long -standing commitment to the organization. This mentor -based engineering 
competition inspires thousands of students across the country to design and build robots that engage in  
sports -like activities. Baxter's Mountain Home, Arkansas, United States team has won numerous awards  
in both national and regional competitions.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -world/education.html  
© Copyright 2011 B axter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Education Advantage  
In 2010, Baxter continued its sponsorship of Education Advantage, a scholarship program to promote career 
development and encourage proactive health management and community involvement among people with 
hemophilia A, including those with inhibitors, or antibo dies against clotting factor. The program, developed with 
input from the hemophilia community, provides academic scholarships and resources for career development, 
healthy lifestyles and community involvement, tailored to patients’ needs. Education Advanta ge, open to all 
students with hemophilia A, provides high school General Educational Development (GED) reimbursement, 
community and technical college need -based scholarships up to $2,500 and university need -based 
scholarships up to $15,000. Strong applican ts who do not qualify for need -based aid may still be eligible  
for merit -based scholarships of $1,000 per year.  
Education Advantage is supported by Baxter and independently administered by Scholarship America. 
Scholarship America, the nation’s leading non profit scholarship program administrator, is solely responsible  
for reviewing all scholarship applications, determining eligibility and financial need and selecting scholarship 
recipients. Once accepted, scholarship recipients are required to participate in ongoing community service  
and attend regular comprehensive health exams. In 2010, Baxter awarded 33 Education Advantage program 
scholarships, totaling $160,000.  
  
Governance, 
Ethics and 
Compliance   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics -compliance/index.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International In c. All Rights Reserved.  Governance, Ethics and Compliance  
As a global healthcare company operating in more than 100 countries, Baxter recognizes the need to adhere 
to the law and promote a culture of ethics and compliance supported by policies that are clearly communicated 
and understood companywide.  
In 1995, Baxter became one of the first companies to adopt formal corporate governance guidelines.  
These address the operation of Baxter’s board of dire ctors and board committees, which in turn govern the 
management of the company and represent shareholder interests. At Baxter, re -examining the company’s 
practices and setting new standards is an ongoing process. Today's corporate governance guidelines  
reflect that process.  
Baxter’s Ethics and Compliance team works closely with operating and legal teams based regionally in 
Baxter's businesses to ensure that the company’s business activities adhere to applicable laws and to 
company policies. The organizatio n offers numerous channels to educate and counsel employees as well  
as confidential avenues to report alleged violations of law and policy, which it investigates promptly and  
reports to senior management as appropriate.  
This section covers the following topics:  
• Corporate Governance  
• Ethics and Compliance  
 
 Francesco Calcagni (left), regional account manager for Baxter's BioScience business in Italy, confers with 
Professor Gianluigi Melotti of Sant' Agostino -Estense Hospital about Baxter's biosurgery products. Maintaini ng 
high ethical standards in interacting with customers is among the topics covered in Baxter's Code of Conduct.   
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -people/ethical -conduct -legal -compliance.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
 
 
Corruption poses a significant challenge to the global economy. It is an impediment to sustainable 
development, increases inequality, undermines public institutions, and dampens economic growth.  
For companies, corrup tion adds to the cost of doing business, represents significant legal and reputational 
risks and creates unsustainable business relationships. Baxter realizes that its ongoing business success 
relies on a sustainable business model in which Baxter and its partners market and sell the company's 
products in an ethical way that complies with applicable laws around the globe.  
 
Baxter has policies governing its interactions with healthcare professionals 
and government officials in every region of the world. Th e company 
encourages open discussion of questions and concerns to avoid 
inappropriate decision -making or actions that potentially violate standards. 
Baxter employees are obligated to raise perceived violations of standards 
regarding the company's financial  affairs, accounting practices, auditing 
matters, corruption, fraud, or other serious concerns. A variety of local and 
global channels may be used to raise questions or concerns, including a 
website, a hotline, regional ethics and compliance committees and  other 
ethics and compliance personnel, and Baxter's Corporate Responsibility 
Office.  
Major efforts in 2010 focused on finalizing the company's Third Party Policy, 
which completes the suite of policies that underpin Baxter's anticorruption 
compliance progr am. The Third Party Policy applies to business entities 
and individuals that conduct the following activities outside the United States on Baxter's behalf:  
• Marketing, promoting or selling Baxter products;  
• Negotiating or executing Baxter agreements;  
 
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -people/ethical -conduct -legal -compliance.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  • Lobbyi ng or advocating for Baxter;  
• Interacting with non -U.S. government officials; and  
• Remunerating healthcare professionals or other relevant entities.  
 
While Baxter's existing anticorruption policies prohibit Baxter and third parties from providing inappropria te 
payments or benefits to foreign government officials, healthcare professionals and other entities, the Third 
Party Policy provides a consistent process to conduct due diligence on business partners, and to retain  
and train them with respect to anticorr uption laws and Baxter's expectations.  
In the United States in 2010, Baxter piloted a robust approach to educating its U.S. business teams on  
U.S. healthcare compliance issues, and revamped its e -learning course on the subject, which it launched  
in early  2011.  
Also in 2010, Baxter continued to implement its risk -based anticorruption education program to provide 
awareness -level training to most employees, and more advanced training to employees who regularly  
interact with government officials and healthca re professionals. During the year, Baxter conducted more  
than 170 international anticorruption training sessions, reaching nearly 5,000 employees in targeted positions, 
and delivered more than 65 U.S. healthcare compliance training sessions to more than 1 ,800 employees.  
 
In 2010, Baxter evaluated a number of the more than 100 country -level organizations and 22 regional, global 
and multilateral organizations it identified in 2009 to prioritize with whom to collaborate to create industry -level 
codes of prac tice related to product marketing and sales. While Baxter determined it could not devote the 
resources to actively engage with any of these organizations in 2010, the company continues to view this as  
a long -term opportunity. At a regional level, Baxter c ontinues to participate in Eucomed's efforts to support 
ethical marketing and sales practices in the European Union.  
The company also researched broader anticorruption initiatives such as the United Nations Global Compact 
and the World Economic Forum Partn ering Against Corruption Initiative, but has not yet determined whether  
to endorse those efforts.  
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics -compliance/corporate -governance.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Corporate Governance  
 
Baxter is operated under the direction of the company's board of directors. Eleven independent directors and 
Baxter's chief executi ve officer (CEO) comprise the company's 12 -person board. Baxter's CEO serves as the 
chairman of the board. The board believes this structure provides a single vision for the company and results  
in an efficient and effective organizational structure. The b oard also annually appoints an independent lead 
director, who presides at executive sessions of the board and serves as a liaison between the other 
independent directors and the chairman. The lead director also reviews meeting agendas, works with the 
chair man to facilitate timely and appropriate information flow to the board, and serves as the contact for direct 
communications from interested parties.  
Baxter has long adhered to principles designed to ensure effective corporate governance. Since 1995, the 
board has had in place corporate governance guidelines that address the operation of the board and its 
committees, strategic and succession planning, and director  qualifications, independence and compensation.  
To further align the interests of directors and management with shareholders, Baxter requires directors and 
officers to own Baxter common stock. Baxter’s CEO is required to own common shares valued at six times his 
annual base salary and each of the other executive officers is required to achieve owners hip of shares worth 
four times his or her annual base salary within five years of becoming an officer. Directors must hold Baxter 
common stock equal to five times their annual cash retainers within five years of commencing board service.  
In selecting nomin ees for director, the board considers experience in business, government, education, 
healthcare, science, technology and other areas relevant to the company’s activities, as well as diversity  
of background, including diversity of gender, race, age and eth nicity or national origin. The board considers 
candidates recommended by shareholders, board members and management, and evaluates all candidates 
based on the same criteria.  
Baxter's board has six committees: Audit, Compensation, Corporate Governance, Fina nce, Public Policy,  
and Science and Technology. Each committee is made up of independent directors and has the authority to 
obtain advice or assistance from outside experts, as the committee deems appropriate. The roles of these 
committees are described i n the following table. Click on each link to view more detail, including a list  
of members.  
Audit 
Committee  Focuses on integrity of Baxter's financial statements, system of internal accounting controls, 
internal and external audit process, and process for monitoring legal and regulatory 
compliance.  
Compensation 
Committ ee Exercises the authority of the board relating to employee benefit plans, and is responsible 
for overseeing compensation generally and for the design of Baxter's executive 
compensation program.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics -compliance/corporate -governance.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights  Reserved.   
Corporate 
Governance 
Committee  Oversees director nomination process, board committee structure, annual review of 
corporate governance guidelines, succession planning, and evaluation of CEO and board 
perfor mance.  
Finance 
Committee  Assists board in fulfilling its responsibilities regarding Baxter's financial affairs, including 
overseeing significant financial propos als, capital expenditures, acquisitions and 
divestitures.  
Public Policy 
Committee  Ensures Baxter policies and practices are consistent with company's respo nsibility to act 
with integrity. The committee annually reviews the company's sustainability initiatives, 
including with respect to the spectrum of topics discussed in this report, and reports on 
these activities to the full board. The committee also overs ees Baxter's government affairs 
activities, including political contributions, positions on pending legislation and political 
advocacy.  
Science and 
Technology 
Committee  Advises board on scientific matters relating to Baxter's research and development (R&D) 
and technology programs and initiatives, reflecting Baxter's enhanced focus on R&D in 
recent years.  
 
The board meets in executive session at each r egularly scheduled meeting, and convened nine times in 2010. 
Board committees held a total of 35 meetings in 2010, with average attendance of 98%. View more information 
on the board's activities and responsibilities.  
Baxter’s compensation philosophy is to recognize company and individual performance, drive strong long -term 
financial performance (by encouraging innovation and appropriate levels of risk -taking), and reflect the value of 
each officer’s position in the marketplace and within the company. Baxter ’s executive officers are compensated 
in a manner that is consistent with these principles, aligns the interests of management and shareholders, and 
drives sustained and superior performance relative to the company’s peers. The program is designed to be 
competitive with those of other companies with which Baxter competes for talent. See Baxter’s 2011 Proxy 
Statement for more details . 
Demonstrating its commitment in this area, the Compensation Committee recommended to the board an 
executive recoupment policy , which the board adopted in February 2009. This policy allows the board to take 
any actions it deems appropriate regarding executive incentive compensation following any restatement of the 
company’s financial results that requires an amendment to previous ly filed results, or if an officer violates a 
restrictive covenant in any agreement between Baxter and the officer.  
Shareholders and interested parties may communicate directly with Baxter’s directors by emailing 
boardofdirectors@baxter.com or writing a le tter to: Baxter Director c/o Corporate Secretary, Baxter 
International Inc., One Baxter Parkway, Deerfield, Illinois 60015.  
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics -compliance/ethics -and-complianc e/index.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Ethics and Compliance  
 
As a global healthcare company operating in more than 100 countries, Baxter recognizes the necessity of 
adhering to the law and promoting a culture of ethics and compliance supported by policies that are clearly 
communicated and understood companywide. The company manages a range of programs and activities to 
help employees make good decisions about appropria te behaviors in the markets in which they operate.  
Working closely with operating and legal teams based regionally in Baxter's businesses, the company’s  
Ethics and Compliance team ensures that the actions of Baxter and its employees adhere to applicable l aws 
and to company policies. The organization offers numerous channels to educate and counsel employees as 
well as confidential avenues to report alleged violations of law and policy, which it investigates promptly and 
reports to senior management as appro priate.  
This section covers the following topics:  
• Code of Conduct  
• Structure and Programs  
• Guidance and Compliance  
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics -compliance/ethics -and-compliance/code -of-conduct.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Code of Conduct  
 
Baxter’s Code of Conduct defines the core principles that govern employee behavior at Baxter and how the 
company conducts its business. The Code’s  user -friendly format includes questions and answers, decision 
guides and list s of additional resources available to employees to help maintain a culture of integrity throughout 
Baxter.  
In 2010, Baxter translated the Code of Conduct into Arabic, making it now available in 21 languages. The Code 
applies to Baxter's board of directors  as well as all employees, including the chief executive officer and other 
senior officers. It builds on Baxter’s longstanding commitment to leadership in ethical business practices, 
covering topics such as protection and use of company assets, accurate re cordkeeping, competitive and 
confidential information, sales and marketing practices, anticorruption, insider trading, bioethics, conflicts of 
interest, gifts and trade compliance.  
The Code of Conduct reflects evolving regulations and industry practices, i ncluding Baxter’s relationship with 
healthcare practitioners, medical institutions and patient organizations in the United States and internationally. 
This includes Baxter’s Global Anticorruption Policy, which covers how the company’s employees, contractor s, 
agents and third parties conduct themselves with government officials. In addition, the Code requires the 
prompt reporting of perceived misconduct and outlines the consequences of failure to comply with applicable 
laws or Baxter's policies and procedure s. Baxter provides ongoing training and a Code of Conduct website to 
keep employees up to date on the company’s ethics and compliance policies, topic -specific training and other 
tools and resources.  
The company’s Ethics and Compliance Standards for Baxter  Suppliers is designed to ensure that all Baxter 
suppliers also comply with the company’s Code of Conduct. These standards, translated into 20 languages, 
define policies and set common expectations about ethical behavior when doing business with Baxter. Ba xter’s 
purchasing and supplier management group evaluates and approves all key suppliers before any materials, 
components, products or services may be purchased. Suppliers must agree to abide by these standards to 
conduct business with Baxter (see Managing  Supplier Performance for more information).  
In addition to the standards described above, Baxter has adopted other professional codes of ethics, including:  
• AdvaMed Code of Ethics on Interactions with Health Care Professionals;  
• Ethics & Compliance Officer Association (ECOA) Standards of Conduct for Business Ethics and Compliance 
Professionals;  
• European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA) Code of Practice on 
Relationships with Patient Organizations;  
• Institute for Supply Managemen t (ISM) Principles and Standards of Ethical Supply Management Conduct;  
• Professional Society of Engineers Code of Ethics for Engineers;  
• Regulatory Affairs Professionals (RAPS) Code of Ethics for Regulatory Affairs Professionals; and  
• Society for Corporate Co mpliance and Ethics (SCCE) Code of Ethics for Compliance and Ethics Professionals.  
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics -compliance/ethics -and-compliance/structure -and-programs.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Structure and Programs  
 
Baxter designed and updates its ethics and compliance structure and programs regularly to reflect the needs  
of a diversified and complex global healthcare company.  
Corporate Responsibility Office  
The Corporate Responsibility Office (CRO), established by Baxter’s board in 1993 and composed of six  
senior executives, is responsible for communicating the company’s ethics and compliance standards, pro viding 
guidance and overseeing training to employees and directors, maintaining multiple channels for employees  
to report concerns, and monitoring compliance. The CRO, which meets at least every quarter, reports to the 
board's Public Policy Committee and reports on financial matters to the board's Audit Committee (see graphic). 
Baxter was one of the first companies to establish a direct reporting relationship between its CRO and its 
board, ensuring ethics and compliance oversight at the highest level, and later established Regional Ethics  
and Compliance Committees to implement the CRO's charter globally and enhance corporate understanding  
of local cultures, values and behavioral norms.  
Membership in the Regional Ethics and Compliance Committees rotates to  ensure broad employee exposure 
and participation. The company also has dedicated legal resources in each of its global regions: Asia Pacific, 
Europe/Middle East/Africa (EMEA) and Latin America/Canada. During 2010, these attorneys conducted 11 
ethics and c ompliance assessments: two in Asia Pacific (Malaysia and Philippines), five in EMEA (Belgium, 
Poland, Russia, Turkey and the United Kingdom) and four in Latin America/Canada (Canada, Chile, Colombia 
and Mexico). These are in addition to the three assessmen ts the company conducted in the United States 
during the year.  
Baxter also is enhancing its monitoring efforts to better measure performance between formal assessments 
and has begun identifying country - and business -specific resources to supplement its com pliance programs. 
(See 2010 Case Study: Baxter Creates New Entity to Support Ethics and Compliance at U.S. Business Level.)  
Baxter’s Ethics and Compliance team also works closely with the company’s Corporate Audit group.  
Corporate Audit participates in mo st of the ethics  and compliance audits, and works with the Ethics and 
Compliance team to identify ethics and compliance issues during selected financial audits. In 2010, Corporate 
Audit and the Ethics and Compliance team developed new monitoring tools and processes, and piloted more 
formal monitoring in Asia and Europe. The team has scheduled a Latin America pilot and more extensive 
rollout in 2011.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics -compliance/ethics -and-compliance/structure -and-programs.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  
 
Certificate of Integrity and Compliance  
Each year, Baxter requires executives, mid -level supervisors, sale s representatives and other selected 
employees around the world to reaffirm their commitment to the company's ethics and compliance standards 
by completing and submitting a Certificate of Integrity and Compliance (COIC). The COIC also serves as a 
reporting  document that measures the integration of ethical business practices throughout Baxter. In 2010, 
more than 16,000 employees – over a third of Baxter’s workforce – completed the COIC, which is available in 
11 languages.  
Legal and Regulatory Compliance Trai ning  
Baxter requires employees worldwide to take Web -based training on legal and regulatory compliance. In 2010, 
43,930 employees completed 86,991 e -Learning courses covering areas such as product complaints, 
pharmacovigilance, adverse -event reporting pro cedures, workplace violence prevention, data privacy, trade 
compliance, requirements for selling to the U.S. government, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, antitrust, 
intellectual property, and Baxter’s ethics and compliance standards. Baxter’s Ethics and Compliance group and 
Legal department also conducted 426 classroom sessions around the world in 2010 to train employees on 
Baxter’s ethics and compliance standards and supporting policies.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics -compliance/ethics -and-compliance/structure -and-programs.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Also in 2010, Baxter continued to implement its risk -based anticorr uption education program to provide 
awareness -level training to most employees, and more advanced training to employees who regularly interact 
with government officials and healthcare professionals. In 2010, Baxter conducted more than 170 international 
anticorruption training sessions, reaching nearly 5,000 employees in targeted positions, and more than 65  
U.S. healthcare compliance training sessions to more than 1,800 employees.  
Physician Payment Disclosure/Sunshine Act  
Beginning March 31, 2013, companies  operating in the United States that manufacture covered drugs, 
devices, biologics and medical supplies will be required to report to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid 
Services (CMS) all payments (such as consulting fees, travel and lodging, meals, edu cation grants and 
royalties) given to U.S. physicians and teaching institutions that total more than $100. The first report will cover 
payments made in 2012. As an example, Baxter makes payments to physicians who serve as investigators in 
clinical trials a nd collaborate on other R&D initiatives to compensate them for work done on the company’s 
behalf, which contributes to the development and introduction of new products. Baxter is working toward 
implementing the new Federal requirements to ensure its disclo sures are complete and accurate.  
Broader Anticorruption Activities  
In 2010, Baxter expanded the scope of its anticorruption program to address the activities of its business 
partners, consultants and other entities that may engage with foreign government o fficials while performing 
services for Baxter. In 2010, the company standardized its risk -based approach to conducting due diligence  
on these entities and began training on these requirements.  
Because anticorruption efforts can be impeded or enhanced by o thers in the industry, Baxter also is  
committed to establishing and improving industry codes of conduct and enhancing ethical behavior across  
the healthcare industry. In 2010, Baxter continued to work with Eucomed and other industry organizations  
that h ave initiatives focused on setting industry -wide standards for interactions with healthcare professionals. 
In the longer term, Baxter will continue to identify and prioritize organizations with whom it can partner to  
create industry -wide codes for marketi ng and sales practices. Baxter also continues to evaluate how broader 
anticorruption initiatives such as the UN Global Compact, World Economic Forum Partnering Against 
Corruption Initiative or the Organisation for Economic Co -operation and Development Prin ciples may 
complement the company’s approach.  
See the Ethics and Compliance  priority update for more information.  
Data Privacy and Security  
In the course of business, consumers, patients, plasma donors, healthcare professionals, employees and 
others share personal information with Baxter. Privacy laws require the company to protect this information.  
In 2009, Baxter created a Global Privacy Council to manage and oversee the protection of personal 
information companywide. Complementing the council is a netwo rk of Local Privacy Owners (LPOs) 
responsible for privacy compliance in their respective countries. In 2009 and 2010, Baxter established   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics -compliance/ethics -and-compliance/structure -and-programs.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
LPOs in Canada, the United States and more than a half -dozen countries in Europe. Most other countries in 
Europe will  have LPOs in place by the end of 2011. The company will begin to introduce the privacy program 
to the Asia Pacific and Latin America regions in the latter part of the year as well. Also in 2010, Baxter adopted 
a new global privacy policy. This policy defi nes Baxter’s standards in this area and ensures that all of the 
company’s global operations follow the same controls for protecting the personal information of Baxter 
stakeholders.  
Closely aligned with data privacy is information security. Baxter’s Informa tion Technology (IT) Risk 
Governance Board meets monthly to ensure appropriate accountability and decision -making relative to 
information technology risks. In 2009, Baxter established a cross -functional Information Security Assessment 
Team to prioritize or ganizational response to security and privacy risks. The company has since established a 
robust Information Protection Program, complete with global policies and governance systems, to define 
appropriate and inappropriate use and protection of Baxter infor mation and technology. In 2010, Baxter 
deployed an Information Classification and Trade Secret Policy, which was translated into 14 languages and 
will be communicated to all employees in 2011 via a mandatory e -training course. Other key security initiative s 
in 2011 include automating security and compliance risk assessments, improving computer access and 
authorization controls, and implementing data loss prevention strategies.  
Advertising and Promotion  
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and other a gencies worldwide regulate the advertising and 
promotion of pharmaceuticals, medical devices and biologics. Included in FDA’s oversight are print and 
broadcast advertising, websites, press releases, sales brochures, scientific symposia and convention booth s, 
among other promotional materials and activities. Baxter’s Advertising and Promotion staff manage the 
company’s compliance with promotional regulations companywide. See Product Use for  more detail.  
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics -compliance/ethics -and-compliance/guidance -and-compliance.html 
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Guidance and Compliance  
 
Open communication is at t he core of Baxter’s commitment to integrity. Managers are responsible for 
maintaining an environment that enables employees to safely raise and discuss issues. Baxter encourages 
employees to seek guidance and report concerns through a number of formal chan nels (see graphic). Through 
these channels, Baxter prevents incidents from occurring and addresses issues when they do arise.  
  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics -compliance/ethics -and-compliance/guidance -and-compliance.html 
© Copyright 2011 Baxter Internati onal Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
One such channel is the Baxter Ethics and Compliance Helpline, a telephone and Web resource available  
to employees and their families, suppliers, customers and other stakeholders. Callers can report an issue  
or seek guidance in their local language. Counselors are available in 150 languages, 24 hours a day, seven 
days a week.  
 
In 2010, 340 inquiries were logged into the Helpli ne system. Sixty of these were raised through the Certificate 
of Integrity and Compliance (COIC) process and 280 through other channels, including the Regional Ethics 
and Compliance Committees and Corporate Responsibility Office channels. Of the 340 inquir ies received,  
152 were related  to ethics and compliance, and all were addressed.  
These inquiries were not all reports of misconduct. Baxter encourages employees to use the Helpline, COIC 
process and other channels to ask questions and seek advice on these  topics. Items identified through these 
channels also help Ethics and Compliance managers identify key risks, develop appropriate training, and 
design and apply compliance assessment methodologies.  
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2010 -report/us -bioscience.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. Al l Rights Reserved.   
 
Case Study: Baxter Creates New Entity  
to Support Ethi cs and Compliance  
at U.S. Business Level  
In April 2010, Ludwig Hantson, Ph.D., joined Baxter from 
Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, where he was chief 
executive officer of th e company’s North American 
pharmaceuticals business. In October 2010, after serving a 
brief time as corporate vice president and president of Baxter’s 
International business, Hantson was named corporate vice 
president and president of the company’s BioScie nce business, 
where he created the U.S. BioScience Corporate Responsibility 
Office. The new entity is designed to bring added focus on 
ethics and compliance to Baxter’s U.S. BioScience business.  
In this interview, Hantson talks about why he formed this  
group and the importance he places on ethics and compliance 
at Baxter.  
Baxter already has a Corporate Responsibility Office 
(CRO) to oversee ethics and compliance at the corporate 
level and Regional Ethics and Compliance Committees to 
ensure these standards are met globally. Why the need 
to create an ethics and compliance organization specific 
to U.S. BioScience?  
 
Baxter’s CRO, of which I am a member, takes a corporate -wide 
view in governing ethics and compliance at Baxter. The Regional Ethics and Compliance Committees work to 
ensure that Baxter business is conducted appropriately outside the United States. The new U.S. BioScience 
CRO complements the existing structure. It allows us to focus more deeply on how BioScience operates in the 
U.S. business environme nt. Its role is basically to support and facilitate the implementation of our ethics and 
compliance policy across the U.S. BioScience business, and to ensure we have sufficient resources dedicated 
to this.  
What kind of support will the U.S. BioScience CRO provide?  
 
We plan on doing risk assessments within the U.S. operation. We are looking at how we communicate our 
ethics and compliance policies, programs and procedures to see how we can improve. We’ll provide additional  
 
Ludwig Hantson, Ph.D. Corporate Vice President and 
President, BioScience   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2010 -report/us -bioscience.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  guidance to employees to make sure  we “walk the talk” as a team, consistent with our corporate policies.  
I think there’s only upside in providing added focus on ethics and compliance in the organization. I want to 
ensure transparency, understanding, visibility, ownership, best practice sh aring, and monitoring of ethics and 
compliance throughout BioScience.  
Who makes up the U.S. BioScience CRO?  
 
It’s a multi -functional group made up largely of senior U.S. BioScience management team members. Sales  
and Marketing, Legal, Human Resources, Fina nce, Regulatory, Medical Affairs, and other key functions, 
including Ethics and Compliance, are represented — about 15 people in all.  
What kinds of ethics and compliance issues might Baxter face that are specific to the  
U.S. business?  
 
Compliance with the Sunshine Act is one example . Beginning in 2013, this will require healthcare 
manufacturers to report all payments to physicians of more than $100. It will require a change in our monitoring 
and reporting of transactions with physicians that will affect al l of our U.S. operational teams, as well as our 
global teams that interact with healthcare providers in the United States. This is just one example of legislation 
and other regulatory issues that warrant increased focus at the U.S. business level.  
How do y ou balance your focus on ethics and compliance with growing the business?  
 
The way I look at it, it’s not about balance. Ethical business practices are the rules of the game, and we have 
to make sure we play within that framework. We can still play hard, b ut it must be according to the rules. So it’s 
not about finding a balance between the two. It’s about defining up front what is acceptable — this is what we 
can do, and this is what we cannot do — and conducting business accordingly.  
Ethics and compliance is critical to any business. Is it any more critical in healthcare?  
 
Every business must play by the rules. I think the difference between healthcare and some other industries is 
that healthcare is under a microscope from the U.S. government and other gove rnments due to its importance, 
the money spent in this area, and past improprieties that have received a lot of attention. As an organization, 
we take this very seriously, and every individual in the organization must do so as well.  
In tough economic times , is it more difficult to get people to adhere to high ethics and compliance 
standards when they may feel increased pressure to "make their numbers"?  
 
I understand the question, because it’s natural to think that if a company is going through tough times, it may 
put more pressure on people in the field to do whatever is necessary to "close the deal." But if you have the 
right culture and people know that regardless of external factors, ethics and compliance must remain central, 
then the answer is no. When t imes are tough, we have to be more innovative in solving our customers’ 
problems, but the rules of the game don’t change.   
Employees   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/index.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Employees  
 
Providing Baxter's approximately 48,000 employees worldwide a rewarding place to work and develop is 
central to the company's vis ion. Baxter offers employees the opportunity to advance their knowledge, expand 
their talents and bring their ideas to life, while providing competitive compensation and benefits. The company 
strives to create an inclusive and diverse work environment whil e helping employees manage their work and 
personal lives.  
Baxter's workplace culture is defined by the shared values, competencies and personal attributes that 
employees need to succeed. With a common understanding of how to approach their work, Baxter  
employees know what to expect from one another, and how to achieve positive results. These Baxter 
Leadership Expectations  apply to every employee, every day and everywhere at Baxter.  
This section covers the following topics:  
• Talent Management  
• Sustainability Education  
• Compensation and Benefits  
• Measuring Company Culture  
• Global Inclusion and Diversity  
• Work/Life  
 
View a chart of Baxter's Global Workforce.  
 
 Miguel Ortega, manager of Environment, Health and Safety at Baxter's Cuernavaca, Mexico manufacturing plant.   
http://www.sustainabil ity.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -people/inclusive -and-diverse -workplace.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
 
 
 
 
Baxter strives to create an i nclusive culture that fosters respect and enables all employees to work together 
effectively. The driving force behind Baxter’s focus on inclusion and diversity is to ensure there is an inclusive 
work environment that attracts and retains a globally divers e workforce equipped to identify and capitalize on 
opportunities that enhance the company’s products and services worldwide.  
 
In 2010, members of Baxter’s Global Inclusion Council developed an inclusion plan tailored to each of the 
company’s businesses, r egions and functions. This customized approach reflects the fact that many aspects  
of inclusion vary by location and by the activities of that business, region and function. For example, Baxter’s 
BioScience business partnered with local women - and minorit y-focused organizations to help employees  
better understand inclusion principles. Baxter’s Thousand Oaks, California, United States, facility hosted  
an Association of Women in Science monthly symposium. In Austria, through a partnership with Vienna’s 
University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences’ FIRST (Females in Research, Science, and Technology) 
project, Baxter recruited five women to complete their master’s theses in fields related to quality, manufacturing 
and research and development at the comp any’s Vienna facility.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -people/inclusive -and-diverse -workplace.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Baxter continues to work to increase ethnic and gender diversity throughout the company. For example,  
the Finance department increased the diversity of participants in its Financial Development Program by 
enhancing and expanding r elationships with diverse universities for recruiting purposes, and more effectively 
retaining talent. As a result, the department reported significant improvement in diversity hires and promotions 
for its 2011 program: women received 67% of open leadershi p positions (vs. 43% in 2010) and minority 
individuals received 44% (vs. 18% in 2010).  
All of Baxter’s senior executive leaders included an inclusion and diversity objective focused on the 
improvement of gender and/or ethnic minority representation and a m ore inclusive work environment  
in their annual performance plans, demonstrating commitment from the top down. Also during 2010,  
the Global Inclusion Council partnered with the company’s Global Human Resources group to embed  
inclusion and diversity princ iples into several existing programs and processes. The group spearheaded  
the development and roll -out of a mandatory inclusion awareness training program for all employees.  
The program focuses on the importance of inclusion and diversity to Baxter’s suc cess, and explains how 
employees can contribute to an inclusive culture. Launched in October, 76% of employees completed the 
course by the end of the year, 11% more than Baxter’s target. The company expects all employees to 
complete the training by the end  of the second quarter in 2011.  
Baxter also continues to focus on developing mutually beneficial relationships with small and diverse suppliers, 
which contributes to overall economic vitality and reflects Baxter’s diverse employee and customer base. In 
2010, Baxter spent more than $490 million with small businesses in the United States and Puerto Rico. The 
company spent approximately $97 million with women -owned businesses and $33 million with minority -owned 
firms during the year.  
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/talent -management.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Talent Management  
To ensure the sustainability of its workforce and to drive a high -performing culture, Baxter focuses on  
the following areas:  
• Leadership Expecta tions  
• Individual and Corporate Goal Alignment  
• Succession Planning  
• Talent Assessment and Development  
 
Leadership Expectations  
The Baxter Leadership Expectations (see graphic), whi ch provide the foundation for the company's culture, 
clarify what the company expects of all employees. This framework includes the following:  
• Shared Values  - the beliefs and standards employees bring to their work;  
• Competencies  - the skills and knowledge necessary to achieve goals; and  
• Personal Attributes  - the characteristics and behaviors that enable employees to succeed at Baxter.  
 
The company integrates these expectations into recruiting, hiring, orientation, performance management, 
development, assess ment and training. They provide clarity about leadership at Baxter, which is expected  
of all employees regardless of role or level in the organization.  
Individual and Corporate Goal Alignment  
At Baxter, employees and teams align individual and organizatio nal objectives to ensure that everyone is 
working to achieve company goals. Individuals and teams companywide establish work plans and set specific, 
measurable targets to help Baxter achieve its goals.  
Baxter's global goals focus on six categories:  
  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/talent -management.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International I nc. All Rights Reserved.  Succ ession Planning  
To ensure organizational effectiveness, required workforce capabilities and a robust leadership pipeline,  
Baxter continually assesses its current and future talent needs. At least annually, the chairman/chief executive 
officer reviews mana gement development and succession planning with the company's Board of Directors. 
The Board oversees the senior management development and succession planning process to ensure it is 
rigorous and effective.  
The Corporate Governance Committee of the Board f ocuses on succession planning for the CEO and the  
CEO conducts a review of the Operations Committee (i.e. senior management) annually with the Board.  
Talent Assessment and Development  
Baxter's development philosophy emphasizes a combination of work experi ences, feedback, relationships  
and training, with an emphasis on work experiences as illustrated in the graphic below.  
  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/talent -management.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International I nc. All Rights Reserved.   
Baxter believes that development should be:  
• A shared responsibility, owned by each employee, his or her manager and Baxter;  
• A proces s and not an event;  
• Focused on goals important to both the employee and Baxter;  
• Focused on short -term actions as well as long -term career goals; and  
• Achieved through work experiences, learning from feedback and relationships, and training.  
 
To assist emplo yees, Baxter provides a practical guide called "Your Career Development at Baxter."  
Managers are trained to use this guide - available in 15 languages - for career planning conversations  
with their employees.  
Baxter's learning management system and Perfo rmance and Career Intranet site provide comprehensive 
information about performance expectations and goals, development, training and jobs at Baxter. Online 
learning is available to all employees, with courses offered in up to 20 languages. More than 650 e -Learning 
programs cover topics such as Baxter processes, systems and products, quality, leadership and career 
development, PC skills, environment, health and safety, pharmacovigilance, project management and 
communication. As part of their professional de velopment and to meet regulatory requirements, employees 
completed more than 105, 000 e -Learning courses in 2010. Baxter's Global Inclusion Council also introduced  
a mandatory inclusion awareness course in 2010 to help employees better understand their rol e in building  
an inclusive culture.  
Also see Ethics and Compliance for information on legal and regulatory compliance training.  
In addition to offering talent development training, Baxter is continually enhancing its employee performance 
assessment proces s. Managers review employee performance annually against their established goals as  
well as the Baxter Leadership Expectations, and individual performance contributes to differentiated rewards 
(see Compensation and Benefits). Mid -year reviews also are enc ouraged. In addition to these formal reviews, 
the company encourages managers  to provide employees with ongoing coaching and feedback. As part of  
the annual performance review process, both employee and manager identify strengths and development 
areas and  conduct ongoing discussions throughout the year.  
Baxter also provides managers and supervisors with the tools and techniques to be effective leaders.  
The company's Management Essentials training curriculum helps managers and supervisors develop and 
refine skills related to accountability, career and development planning, change management, coaching and 
feedback, communication, critical thinking and problem solving, facilitation, interviewing, and managing conflict 
and performance. During 2010, 2,822 manag ers completed at least one Management Essentials course.  
As managers progress from supervising individuals to leading teams, they face new challenges and demands. 
In 2010, Baxter held 22 sessions of Leading for Results, a program for experienced managers a nd directors 
introduced in 2009. It consists of live workshops, online courses and webinars to address aspects of the Baxter   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/talent -management.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International I nc. All Rights Reserved.   
Leadership Expectations, including business acumen, motivating and developing others, critical thinking  
and problem solving, an d communication. During 2010, 321 employees completed at least one Leading for 
Results course.  
To help employees develop mentoring relationships, share experiences and transfer career -related knowledge, 
in 2009, Baxter introduced a global online employee m entoring program, which helps connect mentors and 
mentees based on their customized profiles. Participants also receive extra resources, tools and guidance to 
support the mentoring relationships. As of year -end 2010, over 1,000 employees have enrolled.  
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/sustainability -education.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Sustainability Education  
To achieve Baxter’s sustainability goals, the company works to educate and engage all employees  
in its sustainability initiatives. In Baxter’s 2009 employee engagement survey, 78% of employees  
worldwide indicated that the compan y’s sustainability programs were important to them.  
Baxter communicates its sustainability efforts to employees through various channels:  
• CEO Bob Parkinson discusses sustainability during every quarterly all employee webcast;  
• A sustainability Intranet site  provides company sustainability success stories, tips and tools to  
help employees contribute to progress on the company's sustainability priorities and encourages  
employee feedback;  
• The company translated the Baxter 2009 Sustainability Priorities Report  into three languages in addition  
to English and distributed it to employees worldwide;  
• Quarterly press releases highlighting the company’s sustainability achievements are translated and  
posted throughout facilities;  
• The company includes sustainability -related information in new hire orientation sessions and packets; and  
• Baxter representatives share information about the company’s sustainability programs and performance  
with job candidates during recruiting events and interviews.  
 
Employee Engagement to Support Sustainability  
In 2010, Baxter sponsored the second annual "Baxter World Environment Week" to promote sustainable living 
in employees' communities and encourage employees to support the company's commitment to creating a 
more sustainable world. "Wa ter" was the theme of the 2010 event, which took place May 30 -June 5, 2010. 
More than 70 Baxter facilities worldwide held employee activities to promote environmental stewardship and 
raise awareness that resources worldwide in this area are threatened by c limate change, misuse and pollution. 
Highlights included:  
• Buenos Aires, Argentina  – Employees received information on the importance of water and Baxter’s  
global and local efforts in environmental stewardship.  
• Mississauga, Canada  – Leaders at the facility  organized a Baxter Stewardship Day at a local nature 
preserve to educate employees on water systems and conservation, and employees conducted a water 
conservation project.  
• Cherry Hill, New Jersey, United States  – Employees calculated their water footprint  and took a  
“Water Quiz” to raise awareness about water consumed during everyday tasks.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/sustainability -education.html  
© Copyright 2011  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Each October, Baxter employees in the Asia Pacific region volunteer time and contribute funds to "Making  
a Meaningful Difference" month activities to improve the li ves of people in local communities and care for the 
environment. Highlights from 2010 projects include:  
• Tokyo and Miyazaki, Japan  – Employees collected plastic bottle caps to support Ecocap Movement’s  
“Love the Earth, Love the Children” initiative. The bo ttle caps are recycled, and profits from the sale of caps  
to resource recyclers provide vaccines to children in developing countries.  
• Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia  – Baxter employees donated nearly $650 to purchase shelving and English books 
for a children’s lib rary in the Ongkil Orang Asli settlement. They also donated more than $1,600 toward the 
purchase of raw materials, and volunteered to build a water storage tank that will supply running water to  
20 families in the village of Dusan Kubor. Without the tank,  villagers had to travel 30 minutes each way  
by foot for clean water.  
 
 
Employee Perspective  
 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/compensation -and-benefits.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Compensation and Benefits  
A critical component of Baxter's vision is to be a rewarding place to work and develop. Central to this 
commitment, Baxter provide s its employees with competitive compensation and benefits programs. The 
company's global total compensation philosophy is to provide market -competitive pay and benefits while 
rewarding employees for strong individual and business performance.  
Baxter's com pensation package includes base salary and may include incentive pay, such as cash bonuses 
and stock -based compensation. It also includes comprehensive benefits, which vary by region and country,  
to help employees meet their healthcare, income -protection,  financial, retirement and time -off needs. Through 
the Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP), Baxter employees can share in the company's growth. The ESPP 
allows employees to purchase Baxter common stock each month at a 15% discount (up to 15% of base  
pay a nd sales commissions) through convenient payroll deductions with no brokerage fees, subject to  
certain limitations.  
As part of Baxter's commitment to employee health and wellness both on the job and at home, Baxter offers 
many programs and resources to he lp employees meet their personal goals and family needs (see Work/Life). 
BeWell@Baxter, the company's health and wellness effort, is designed to help employees stay well through 
education and prevention, take action to make healthy lifestyle changes and de al with chronic or acute 
conditions. See case study on the company’s BeWell@Baxter initiative.  
Executive Pay  
The Compensation Committee of Baxter's board of directors, which consists solely of independent,  
non-employee directors, determines executive offi cer compensation each year based on an assessment  
of competitive compensation market data, business conditions and company and individual performance.  
See Baxter's 2010 Proxy Statement for more details . 
 
Employee Perspective  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter .com/employees/measuring -company -culture.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Measuring Company Culture  
Every two years, Baxter conducts a companywide survey to gather employee feedback about what is going 
well and where the company needs to make improvements. Approximately 89% of Baxter's employees 
worldwide completed the company’s most recent survey in 20 09, surpassing the 2007 response rate. Overall 
scores reflected improvement in every survey question and category that had comparable data from 2007.  
 
  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/measuring -company -culture.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
2009 Culture Survey Action Plan  
Based on the 2009 survey results, Baxter began implementing the follo wing actions in 2010:  
Global Inclusion: While overall scores were positive in this area, Baxter's Global Inclusion Council  
introduced a mandatory inclusion awareness training program for all employees in 2010. The program  
focuses on the importance of inc lusion and diversity to Baxter's success, and explains how employees can 
contribute to an inclusive culture. The course was launched in October, and 76% of employees completed  
it by the end of the year, 11% more than Baxter's end -of-year goal. The company  expects all employees  
to complete the training by the end of the second quarter in 2011.  
Managerial Effectiveness: In 2010, Baxter launched a new, comprehensive Intranet site for managers  
that provides policies, process information and guidance on manag ement topics including coaching, feedback, 
development and performance management. In 2010, Baxter also held 22 sessions of Leading for Results,  
a program for experienced managers and directors introduced in 2009.  
Employee Perspective  
 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/global -inclusion -diversity.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Global Inclusi on and Diversity  
Although having a diverse employee population (for example, in terms of age, gender, sexual orientation,  
race, ethnicity or religion) is essential, diversity alone does not ensure an inclusive culture. An inclusive 
organization must also ensure that company policies, programs, processes and systems engender respect  
and enable all employees to work together effectively.  
Baxter believes that an inclusive culture nurtures innovation, creates trusted partnerships with customers, 
suppliers and  community partners, and contributes to business success and sustainability. This belief forms 
the foundation of Baxter's global inclusion and diversity strategy, which is directly linked to one of the 
company's shared values - respect for individuals and the diverse contributions of all.  
Baxter's global inclusion and diversity strategy focuses on four key areas:  
• Workforce  - building a globally diverse organization;  
• Workplace  - creating an inclusive culture in which diversity is valued;  
• Communities  - buildi ng partnerships with community -based organizations that embrace and  
support diverse stakeholder groups; and  
• Marketplace  - creating competitive advantage by promoting Baxter's commitment to inclusion  
through its brand, customers and supplier relationships . 
 
Global Inclusion Council  
Baxter’s Global Inclusion Council, established in 2008, provides thought leadership, guidance and support  
to enhance the company’s inclusive culture. Composed of leaders from the company's businesses, regions 
and functions worl dwide, the Council's charter is to:  
• Promote and advocate Baxter's inclusion philosophy and initiatives;  
• Identify and address issues and barriers in the workplace that could impact an inclusive culture;  
• Recommend new ideas or initiatives to accelerate an in clusive culture;  
• Identify opportunities to leverage existing initiatives across the company; and  
• Ensure inclusion initiatives align with Baxter's business priorities.  
 
The Council's executive sponsor is Baxter's Corporate Vice President, President - Renal,  Carlos Alonso.  
The Council is led by Baxter's director, Global Inclusion and Diversity, who also is a member of the company's 
Sustainability Steering Committee. This structure allows for alignment and support among the company's 
senior leadership, Sustai nability Steering Committee and the Global Inclusion Council.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/global -inclusion -diversity.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
All of Baxter’s senior executives included an inclusion and diversity goal focused on the improvement  
of gender and/or ethnic minority representation and a more inclusive work environment in their annual 
performance plans, indicating a very strong commitment to inclusion and diversity from the top down. In 
addition, Global Inclusion Council members developed inclusion plans that cover each business, region  
and function. This customized approa ch addresses inclusion challenges that vary by location.  
For example, Baxter’s BioScience business launched a program to partner with local community  
organizations to help employees better understand the principles of inclusion through a focus on engaging  
local women and minority organizations. Baxter’s facility in Thousand Oaks, California, United States, for 
instance, hosted an Association of Women in Science monthly symposium. In addition, through a partnership 
with Vienna’s University of Natural Resour ces and Life Sciences’ BOKU first (Females in Research, Science, 
and Technology) project , Baxter recruited five women to complete their master’s theses in fields related to 
quality, manufacturing and research and development at Baxter’s Vienna facility.  
Baxter has also taken steps to increase ethnic and gender diversity throughout the company. In 2010,  
the Finance department increased the diversity of participants in its Financial Development Program by 
enhancing and expanding relationships with diverse u niversities for recruiting purposes, and more effectively 
retaining talent. As a result of the program, the Finance department reported a significant increase in the 
program’s ethnic and gender diversity for 2011: women received 67% of open leadership posi tions (vs. 43%  
in 2010) and minority individuals received 44% (vs. 18% in 2010). Baxter’s Global Quality department took 
action in 2010 to improve the gender balance at executive levels by raising awareness of the organization’s 
gender disparity and insti tuting a Global Quality executive level slating process establishing a target in which 
half of the candidates on the slate are women. As a result, at the beginning of 2011, 45% of Global Quality  
vice presidents are women, up from 36% at the beginning of 2 010. 
In 2010, the Global Inclusion Council also spearheaded the development and roll -out of a mandatory inclusion 
awareness course for all employees, to explain why inclusion and diversity are critical to Baxter’s success, and 
explain how employees can con tribute to an inclusive culture. The course was launched in October, and 76% 
of employees completed it by the end of the year, 11% more than Baxter’s end -of-year goal. The company 
expects all employees to complete the training by the end of the second quar ter in 2011.  
For more information about Baxter's global inclusion and diversity initiatives, see Priority Update: Baxter  
will Promote an Inclusive and Diverse Workplace.  
Several leading organizations have recognized Baxter for its inclusion and diversity efforts in 2010:  
• Great Place to Work in Denmark - Great Places to Work Institute - Denmark  
• One of the Top 50 Companies to Work For by CAREERS & the disABLED Magazine  
• One of the Best Companies to Work For in Spain by Actualidad Económica  
 
Click here for a c omprehensive list.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/global -inclusion -diversity.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Fair and Equal Opportunity for All Employees  
Baxter is committed to fair and equal opportunity for all employees, and recognizes that every individual's 
unique background and experiences contribute to a successful organization.  
Discrimi nation in hiring, promotion and all other employment decisions on the basis of race, color, religion, 
gender, national origin, age, disability, sexual orientation, veteran status or any other basis protected by 
federal, state or local laws is prohibited. B axter's global operations comply with applicable laws and company 
business standards around the world. Employees are encouraged to raise any issues or concerns they might 
have through one of the channels outlined in the company's "Prohibition of Workplace Harassment" policy.  
The tables below illustrate Baxter's ethnic and gender diversity at various levels in the company.  
 
Board and Executive Leadership Diversity  
 2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  
Ethnic (% non -white of total)  
Board of Directors  8.3%  7.7%  7.7%  7.7% 7.7%  
Executive Leadership * 13.3%  13.3%  13.3%  14.3%  14.3%  
Gender (% female of total)  
Board of Directors  16.7%  15.4%  15.4%  15.4%  15.4%  
Executive Leadership * 33.3%  33.3%  33.3%  28.6%  28.6%  
 
*Executive Leadership figures include Operations Committee mem bers and regional presidents.  
 
Gender Diversity at Baxter (% Female Globally)  
 2006  2007  2008  2009 * 2010 * 
Vice President and Above  19.0%  17.7%  18.5%  19.2%  19.8%  
Supervisor/Director  39.1%  47.7%  48.1%  48.5%  47.8%  
Non-Manager  56.5%  56.4%  56.3%  55.8%  55.4%  
Overall  53.7%  52.7%  52.8%  52.5%  51.9%  
 
*2009 and 2010 figures do not include Baxter Credit Union employees, which were approximately 0.1% of the total population.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/global -inclusion -diversity.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Supplier Diversity  
Baxter works to develop mutually beneficial relationships with small a nd diverse suppliers. The company  
plans to continue expanding the diversity of its supplier base to reflect the demographics of Baxter's 
customers. See Supplier Diversity for more information.  
For more information about Baxter's global inclusion and diver sity initiatives, see Priority Update: Baxter  
Will Promote an Inclusive and Diverse Workplace . 
 
Employee Perspective  
 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/work -life.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Work/Life  
Baxter believes that managers and employees share the responsibility to achieve a healthy blend of work, 
personal and fami ly life.  
Baxter's global operations collaborate with external organizations, as appropriate, to develop and facilitate 
programs. While some of the work/life programs and resources listed below are available globally, all are 
available in the United States:  
• Adoption assistance and reimbursement;  
• Back -up/emergency child and elder care;  
• Dependent -care flexible spending accounts;  
• Educational assistance;  
• Employee assistance and counseling programs;  
• Elder -care management services;  
• Lactation rooms;  
• Resource and co mmunity referrals to local service providers for family, financial and work issues;  
• Childcare support options;  
• Webinars on topics such as stress management and parenting (in English but offered worldwide); and  
• Alternate work arrangements.  
 
More than 30% of  eligible employees (regular employees working at least 20 hours a week) used one or more 
of these programs in 2010. Baxter estimates conservatively that it realizes more than $1.75 of benefit for every 
dollar invested in work/life programs through reduced  absenteeism and enhanced productivity. This estimate is 
based on employee surveys and utilization data to compare the value of estimated employee time saved to the 
total cost of the program.  
Alternate Work Arrangements  
Alternate work arrangements help to meet employees' needs for flexibility while continuing to achieve Baxter’s 
business goals. The company’s Alternate Work Arrangement Proposal Kit assists employees and managers  
in reviewing the steps required for proposing and reviewing requests for flexib ility within the scope of an 
existing position.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/work -life.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
To determine the most appropriate alternate work arrangement, the following are typically taken  
into consideration:  
• The requirements of the job;  
• The employee's personal needs;  
• The needs and goals of the bu siness overall; and  
• The employee's satisfactory work performance.  
 
Employee Perspective  
 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2007 -report/bewell -2007.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Case Study: BeWell@Baxter: Global Exercise 
Challenge and Healthy Eating Month  
Healthy eating + physical activity = stronger employees  
Through BeWell@Baxter, the company’s global employee  
health and wellness effort, Baxte r is committed to enhancing  
the health and well -being of its employees and their families. 
BeWell@Baxter aims to help employees stay well through 
education and prevention initiatives, make healthy lifestyle 
changes and address chronic or acute conditions.  
The BeWell@Baxter Personal Wellness Profile, an online  
health risk assessment, helps employees understand how  
lifestyle choices, family history and other factors impact their 
health. Aggregate data from the Personal Wellness Profile 
highlights exercise and good nutrition as top focus areas for 
employees across the company. As a result, in 2010, two global 
initiatives were introduced: The BeWell@Baxter Global Exercise 
Challenge and Healthy Eating Month.  
The Challenge, which spanned the month of May, encou raged 
employees to increase their daily activity level, track their exercise minutes and compete to be the “Biggest 
Movers.” Throughout the month, nearly 12,000 employees at 80 Baxter locations participated in the Challenge, 
logging more than 100,000 hours  of exercise. Individuals took part in lunchtime walking and cycling teams and 
activities such as rock climbing, yoga, swimming, running, spin classes and even line dancing. The company 
recognized the top six Baxter locations in each region boasting the mo st combined exercise time and the 
highest percentage of participants with “Biggest Mover” awards.  
In November, Baxter celebrated Healthy Eating Month, which was designed to help employees and their 
families focus on good eating habits. Ninety facilities ar ound the world held nutrition -related activities including 
healthy cooking contests, quizzes and demonstrations; fresh fruit giveaways; onsite seminars from registered 
dieticians and herbalists; free breakfasts for employees cycling to work; and "challenge s" to help employees 
manage weight during the holidays. More than 35% of employees participated in events offered during  
Healthy Eating Month.  
 
Employees at Baxter's pro duction facility in Halle, 
Germany, were among the nearly 12,000 employees at 
80 locations worldwide that participated in the 
BeWell@Baxter Exercise Challenge in 2010.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2007 -report/bewell -2007.html  
© Copyright 2011 B axter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
"I strongly believe that individual employees and the company as a whole can do really good things when  
we ar e healthy and well," said Jeanne Mason, Baxter's corporate vice president of Human Resources.  
"This globally focused effort to help employees make healthy changes in their lives is just another way we  
can achieve our vision to be a rewarding place to wor k and develop and become a great company."  
Jeanne Ayler, a traffic specialist at Baxter's Deerfield, Illinois, United States, facility is one "success story" 
related to the BeWell@Baxter program. Ayler lost more than 33 kilograms (72 pounds), lowered her b ad 
cholesterol (LDL) and triglyceride levels and increased her good cholesterol (HDL) level after incorporating 
some of the exercise and diet suggestions she received after completing her Personal Wellness Profile.  
"I love the sense of teamwork and camarad erie promoted by the BeWell@Baxter program," Ayler said.  
"Many of us work out together and share healthy eating strategies. That kind of support really does  
make a difference!"   
Environment, 
Health and Safety   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/index.html  
© Copyrigh t 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Environment, Health and Safety  
 
 
Baxter's Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) organization manages and coordinates global programs  
and activities to reduce the company's environmental impacts, to create safe and healthy workplaces, and  
to advance product stewardship across Baxter.  
This reporting year concludes performance against the company's EHS 2010 goals. Baxter recognizes the 
importance of aspirational targets and in 2011 launched its 2015 EHS goals, which integrate into the 
company's overarching sustainability priorities.  
 
Maintenance mechanic Juan Trejo installs solar panels on the roof of Baxter's manufacturing facility in Cuernavaca, Mexico. 
Baxter has a 2015 goal to increase facility energy usage of renewable power to 20% (of total).   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/index.html  
© Copyrigh t 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
EHS results from 2010 include the following:  
• Baxter reduced energy usage by 20% and associated greenhouse gas emissions by 29% since 2005, both 
indexed to revenue. During that period, global energy management initiatives have saved the company an 
average of  more than $28 million annually.  
• The company reduced waste generation 20% compared to 2005, indexed to revenue.  
• Baxter reduced water usage by 10% in absolute terms and 31% indexed to revenue since 2005, exceeding 
the company's 2010 water -reduction goal of 20% indexed to revenue.  
• Baxter improved employee safety significantly since 2005, including a 34% reduction in recordable case rate, 
a 45% decrease in cases with days lost rate, and a 36% reduction in days lost rate. This performance 
surpassed each of the three original 2010 injury rate goals the company set in 2005.  
 
Internal Partnerships  
The EHS organization works with a wide range of groups internally to enhance Baxter's EHS capabilities  
and performance, such as Corporate Communications, the Device Cent er of Excellence, executive and facility 
management, Human Resources, Purchasing and Supplier Management, and others. These partnerships are 
crucial to helping Baxter achieve progress against its EHS -related sustainability priorities and overcome  
the rela ted challenges it faces, such as waste reduction. See Internal EHS Partnerships: Collaborating to 
Advance Sustainability.  
Scope of Baxter EHS Reporting  
• The environmental data included in this report are based on 104 reporting locations, of which 54 are 
manufacturing, 20 are warehouse and nonmanufacturing, and 30 are administrative, clerical or other. Several 
of the reporting units comprise multiple locations that report as a single entity. For example, in 2010, 37 renal 
distribution facilities reported as a  single entity, as did Baxter's 73 North American plasma collection centers.  
• The health and safety data included in this report are based on 287 reporting locations.1 
• Regional breakdowns for EHS data are as follows: Asia Pacific; Latin America; Europe, Mid dle East and 
Africa; and North America.  
• The EHS information reported covers 100% of Baxter's operations.  
• EHS data are revised to reflect acquisitions, divestitures and plant closings as well as to incorporate any 
corrections necessary due to additional dat a verification activities (such as related to the Chicago Climate 
Exchange (CCX, now IntercontinentalExchange) and EHS audits).  
 
1 The scope of Baxter's health and safety data is different than the scope of the company's environmental data because Baxter's  occupational injury and illness  
 accounting includes smaller facilities that are not material to the company's overall environmental performance . 
 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.co m/priorities -goals/our -people/safe -and-healthy -workplace.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baxter continually searches for ways to further decrease the potential for injury in the workpl ace by identifying 
and addressing the main sources of incidents. The company demonstrates its commitment to employee 
wellness by offering health -awareness and enhancement programs.  
 
In 2009, the most recent year data were available, Baxter's cases with da ys lost rate ranked third among 
industry peers.1 
In 2010, Baxter experienced a 7% decrease in the recordable case rate, but a 13% increase in the cases  
with days lost rate and a 10% increase in the days lost rate. This worsening of performance occurred af ter  
four years of significant progress in reducing injuries and illnesses.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -people/safe -and-healthy -workplace.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
To keep overall performance in perspective, since 2005, Baxter's:  
• Recordable case rate decreased by 34%  
• Cases with days lost rate reduced by 45%  
• Days lost rate decreased by 36%  
 
Employee Safety  
 
Since 2008, Baxter has applied Hazard identification (HI) and risk assessment (RA) to improve safety 
performance and enable Baxter to understand the main causes of employee injury and illness and tailor 
programs to address them. In 2010, u sing this approach, the company identified two areas of focus: Baxter's 
Renal Home Patient Delivery drivers and the company's Contractor Safety Policy and program. Baxter's  
safety team formed a task force to address the Renal delivery group's needs, resul ting in benchmarking with 
companies that perform similar work and developing enhanced post -accident analysis tools and data analysis 
strategies. Baxter's EHS team also focused on the company's Contractor Safety Policy and program to 
redefine higher risk ac tivities that warrant increased planning and focus on risk.  
Near -miss reporting, a type of hazard identification and risk assessment, identifies incidents that might have 
resulted in injury, illness or damage but did not, which helps the company avoid  simi lar events in the future.  
In 2010, Baxter exceeded its goal to implement a near miss identification program in 75% of identified facilities 
based on risk, reaching 91% of those facilities (60 sites total with about 32,500 employees).  
2010 Safety Performan ce* 
Recordable Case Rate  1.00 (improved 7% from 2009)  
Cases With Days Lost Rate  0.17(worsened by 13% from 2009)  
Days Lost Rate  4.56 (worsened by 10% from 2009)  
Restricted Days Rate  14.59 (worsened by 15% from 2009)  
Employee/Contractor Serious Incident s** 5/0*** 
Employee/Contractor Fatalities  0/0 
    *All rates based on 100 full -time employees working one year, which equals a total of 200,000 work hours. For tracking purposes, Baxter applies  
U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration recordke eping practices worldwide. Thus, in cases where an injury occurs and there are conflicting 
medical opinions as to the number of days away and/or restricted days that should be recorded, Baxter records on the basis of the most authoritative 
physician's opin ion. Cases with days lost: work -related injuries or illnesses that cause an employee to lose at least one full day after the date of the incident. 
Days lost: number of days lost recommended by the most authoritative physician's opinion (including weekends and holidays) due to a work -related injury or 
illness. Restricted days: number of days recommended by the most authoritative physician's opinion that an employee or supervised contractor is unable to 
work full duty (including weekends and holidays) due to a work -related injury or illness. Baxter does not count the date of injury and date of return to full duty  
as restricted days. Recordable cases: work -related injuries or illnesses requiring medical attention beyond first -aid, including cases with days los t. 
  **Serious workplace incident cases are those that result in an employee or contractor being hospitalized overnight, sustaining an amputation or dying.  
***Five serious incidents occurred in 2010, one involving two employees.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -people/safe -and-healthy -workplace.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Health and Wellness  
BeWel l@Baxter is the company's umbrella program for its health and wellness initiatives, and the Personal 
Wellness Profile is its cornerstone. This online health risk assessment tool helps employees understand how 
lifestyle choices, family history and other fac tors impact their health. Aggregate data from the tool provides 
companywide and facility -level information on health risk. Thirty -two percent of Baxter's employees worldwide 
completed a Personal Wellness Profile by the end of 2010, exceeding the goal of 30 %. 
Based on this health risk data, in 2010 the company launched two major health promotion campaigns.  
The BeWell@Baxter Exercise Challenge, held in May, was designed to increase exercise levels. Throughout  
the month, nearly 12,000 employees at 80 Baxter locations participated, logging more than 100,000 hours of 
exercise.  
Healthy Eating Month was launched in the month of November to support improved nutrition. More than 35%  
of employees, at 90 facilities worldwide, participated in events such as healthy c ooking contests, quizzes and 
demonstrations, and onsite seminars from registered dieticians and herbalists.  
Other health and wellness highlights during 2010 included the following:  
• Baxter made seasonal flu vaccination available to 96.4% of all employees, a nd 40% participated.  
• The company implemented Health Promotion Programs in 94% of facilities, surpassing its goal of 90%.  
 
Baxter made progress on its smoke -free workplaces initiative, with 86% of facilities completely smoke -free. 
1 Out of 19 healthcare com panies reporting global safety data to Mercer (formerly ORC), Baxter ranked third in cases with days lost rate in 2009. Mercer is an 
international management and human resources consulting firm. 2010 data were not available at the time of publication of th is report.  
 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -operations -products/carbon -footprint.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
The impacts of global warming and climate change became more evident in 2010, underscoring the 
importance of reducing absolute greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The Earth’s average surface  
temperatures during 2010 tied 2005 as the hot test in 131 years of recordkeeping.1 During the year a  
drought in Russia severely impacted food production,2 and the worst flooding in Pakistan in 80 years  
displaced 10% of the country’s citizens.3 These may be signs of a warming world.  
Companies have a central role to play in addressing climate change. Baxter’s focus includes energy 
conservation, use of high -efficiency technologies such as cogeneration of heat and electricity, use of  
bio-fuels and other renewable energy sources, and purchase of carbon c redits. The company strives to 
demonstrate robust disclosure of GHG emissions and is working with its business partners to do the same  
(see Product Transport and Global Green Supply Chain).  
 
In 2010, Baxter’s GHG emissions from operations equaled 739,000  metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent 
(CO 2e), a 29% reduction indexed to revenue compared to 2005, and an absolute reduction of 7%. This 
includes emissions from Baxter -operated facilities and vehicles, as well as the subtraction of purchased 
renewable energy certificates (RECs), carbon credits, and carbon offsets.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -operations -products/carbon -footprint.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter Int ernational Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Energy use represents approximately 96% of Baxter’s GHG emissions from operations, so energy 
conservation is the cornerstone of the company’s emissions reduction program (see Natural Resou rce  
Use for detail).  
Baxter complements its efforts with the purchase of RECs, carbon credits and carbon offsets, representing 
62,000 tons of CO ₂e in 2010. In 2010, the company bought 78,300 megawatt hours of 100% certified 
renewable power in Austria and Spain and 51,500 megawatt hours of certified RECs in the United States, 
making Baxter the 23rd largest corporate purchaser in the United States.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -operations -products/carbon -footprint.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter Int ernational Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Baxter supports the application of market -based carbon trading programs to reduce GHG emissions.  
The company  has participated in the Chicago Climate Exchange (CCX, now IntercontinentalExchange)  
since 2003 (as a founding member), including its direct emissions from all operations in Canada, Mexico, 
Puerto Rico and the United States. Baxter also has one facility involved in the European Union Emissions 
Trading Scheme (since 2005).  
Through the purchase of RECs and carbon credits, Baxter has achieved carbon neutrality related to its  
onsite fuel consumption and electricity use at three locations, including its corpo rate headquarters in Deerfield, 
Illinois, United States.  
 
In 2010, 18% of Baxter’s energy use in operations was from renewable sources, an increase from 17%  
in 2005. Of this, 8% was from a wood boiler the company uses to produce steam at its site in Mari on,  
North Carolina, United States, and 10% was the renewable energy component of purchased electricity,  
the purchase of RECs, and electricity generated by onsite solar systems.  
The installation of onsite renewable energy projects continues to be a challe nge for Baxter. This is primarily 
due to relatively low project payback periods, even though the company has reduced its minimum required 
internal rate of return for energy projects.  
1 U.S. National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Research Find s 2010 Tied for Warmest Year on Record, Goddard Institute for Space  
 Studies (GISS), New York, New York, United States.  
2 United Nations Environmental Programme, Global Resource Information Database, 2010 drought and associated fires destroyed 20 percent of  
  Russia’s wheat crop.  
3 United Nations Department of Public Information, News and Media Division, New York, New York, United States.  
 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -operations -products/natural -resource -use.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter Internati onal Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strong population growth in many regions combined with rapid economic development in countries worldwide 
place enormous strain on materials, energy and water. Baxter works to use these limited resources wisely to 
improve the company’s environmental performance while also enhancing its bottom line.  
  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -operations -products/natural -resource -use.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
In 2010, Baxter generated 59,370 metric tons of waste (in cluding 54,000 metric tons non -hazardous and 5,370 
metric tons regulated), a reduction of 20% compared to 2005, indexed to revenue.  
The company initiated a formal program in 2010 to reduce plastic waste, Baxter’s largest waste stream. Initial 
activities in cluded analyzing existing data, defining a project team and establishing project metrics. See more 
detail.  
 
Baxter’s primary energy sources are electricity to power manufacturing equipment, lighting and critical 
systems, and fuels to generate steam for wa ter purification and sterilization. In 2010, the company used  
8,875 trillion joules of energy, 20% less than in 2005, indexed to revenue.  
Baxter’s main focus is increasing energy efficiency in its manufacturing operations. The company uses a 
“Lean” energy  program to drive enhancements throughout Baxter. The company’s global energy management 
initiatives have resulted in total savings of approximately $31 million since 2005, including $500,000 in 2010.  
Baxter also applies innovative energy -saving technologi es. In 2010, the company launched a new 
cogeneration unit at its Castlebar, Ireland, facility. The 3 megawatt unit uses natural gas reciprocating engines 
to generate electricity, hot water and steam. These units are typically 30 percent more energy efficie nt than 
traditional generators. See more detail.  
 
In its packaging, Baxter works to minimize materials use and select materials with decreased environmental 
impact. The company focuses packaging innovation on its high -volume products. Since the base year of 2007, 
Baxter has implemented projects that have reduced the amount of packaging sent to customers by 3,500   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -operations -products/natural -resource -use.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
metric tons, including 247 metric tons in 2010. For example, in 2010, the company’s Cuernavaca, Mexico, 
facility completed a project begun in 2 008 to modify the shipping cartons and increase the packaging  
efficiency for several product lines. This initiative has reduced packaging by approximately 1,600 metrics  
tons cumulatively during the last three years. As a result of companywide initiatives,  Baxter has achieved  
70% of its 2015 packaging goal. See more detail.  
 
Baxter’s main use of water is for manufacturing -related processes such as cooling towers, sterilizers and 
steam boilers. In 2010, the company used 13.4 million cubic meters of water, 31% less than in 2005,  
indexed to revenue.  
The company’s overall water usage continues to decline, driven by water conservation projects such as  
the Singapore, Woodlands, facility, whose “Green Committee” implemented projects to optimize cleaning 
process es in 2010, saving 14,000 cubic meters of water during the year. Baxter identifies these types  
of opportunities through formal energy assessments, water value stream mapping, water balances, and  
facility -driven initiatives.  
Using tools from the World Bus iness Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), in 2009 Baxter mapped 
its water use at major sites globally against local water availability. While the WBCSD water tool has helped 
Baxter screen operations located in potentially water -scarce or -stressed  areas, Baxter plans to conduct further 
analysis to understand the full water risk at each location. Based on this information, the company will develop 
a more comprehensive water risk management strategy, and set more rigorous water conservation goals.  
See more detail.  
 
Results from the WBCSD water tool showed that of Baxter’s 40 largest water -consuming locations, 
representing 92% of the company’s total water use, 10 of those sites are located in water -scarce areas, eight 
in water -stressed areas and 22 in  water -sufficient areas. The company is using that information during 2011  
to prioritize possible locations in which to support community aquifer protection projects. See more detail  
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/ehs -program/policy -and-vision.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
EHS Policy and Vision  
 
Environment, Health and Safety Policy  
Our Co mmitment to People and the Environment  
Baxter will be a global leader in environmental, health and safety (EHS) management.  This is consistent 
with Baxter's business interests, ethics and shared values. Specifically, we commit to the following:  
Sustainable  Development  We will strive to conserve resources and minimize or eliminate adverse EHS 
effects and risks that may be associated with our products, services and operations.  
Employees  We will provide a safe and healthy workplace, striving to prevent injurie s and illnesses, promoting 
healthy lifestyles and encouraging respect for the environment. We will ensure that our employees have the 
awareness, skills and knowledge to carry out this policy.  
Compliance  We will meet all applicable EHS laws and Baxter EHS r equirements, including our own  
EHS management standards.  
Business Integration  We will integrate EHS considerations into our business activities.  
Customers  We will work with our customers to help them address their EHS needs.  
Suppliers and Contractors  We w ill work with our suppliers and contractors to enhance EHS performance.  
Community and Government  We will participate in community and government EHS initiatives.  
Baxter commits to continuous improvement in environment, health and safety performance. We wil l set goals, 
measure progress and communicate results.  
Environment, Health and Safety Vision  
To be a critical business partner providing value and enhancing competitive advantage.  
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/ehs -program/program -governance.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Program Governance  
 
Baxter's environmental, health and safety (EHS) gov ernance structure is designed to help the EHS 
organization realize its vision, achieve its goals and create long -term business value. This includes enhancing 
the company's cross -functional sustainability programs and performance. In 2010, the EHS organizat ion 
finalized its EHS 2015 goals, many of which align with the company’s broader set of sustainability 2015 goals.  
EHS Organization and Reporting Structure  
Baxter's EHS organization, made up  
of more than 250 employees around 
the world, manages the compan y’s 
EHS compliance requirements and 
risks. The organization works with a 
diverse group of internal and external 
stakeholders to address emerging  
EHS issues and related business 
challenges. The EHS function, 
including business group EHS  
support teams, has  reported to global 
manufacturing since 2003. EHS Legal 
and Audit Services reports to the Ethics 
and Compliance function of Baxter’s 
Legal department to preserve the 
objectivity of legal advice and the 
global EHS auditing function.  
Baxter's vice president of EHS meets 
at least once a year with the Public 
Policy Committee of the company's 
board of directors to provide EHS 
performance updates, report on 
progress in related sustainability 
initiatives and discuss emerging EHS 
and broader sustainability trends.  
 
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/ehs -program/ehs -goals.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserv ed.   
 
EHS Goals  
 
Performance goals motivate continual improvement and demonstrate a company's commitment. Reporting 
progress against goals helps stakeholders assess performance.  
Goals -Setting and Business Integration  
Baxter's Environment, Health and 
Safety  (EHS) organization 
conducts strategic planning to 
determine long -term goals, assess 
resources required to achieve 
those goals, and ensure business 
alignment. In manufacturing 
operations, goals related to 
energy, waste and water reduction 
are included in m any senior 
managers' and plant managers' 
annual objectives. Annual 
manager performance evaluations, 
including considerations related to 
compensation, are based partly 
upon business unit and facility 
performance in these areas. In 
2010, annual bonuses for 
manufacturing executives were 
tied to the company's performance 
in energy, waste, water and safety.  
The following interactive table 
summarizes performance against Baxter's EHS 2010 and 2015 goals.  
This reporting year concludes performance against the compa ny's EHS 2010 goals. Baxter recognizes  
the importance of aspirational targets and in 2011 launched its EHS 2015 goals, which integrate into the 
company's overarching sustainability priorities.  
See Priorities  and Goals – Our Operations and Products for  progress against EHS -related 2015  
sustainability goals.  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/ehs -program/ehs -management -systems.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
EHS Management Systems  
 
Baxter's global Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Policy and  EHS requirements provide the foundation for 
the company's EHS program, establishing the minimum standards all facilities must meet and maintain. These 
requirements are designed to protect employees and company assets, minimize environmental impact, reduce 
company risk, and enhance Baxter’s reputation and EHS leadership. Baxter assesses all of its facilities using 
the same performance measurement system.  
Global Management Systems  
Baxter's EHS program follows a management -systems approach guided by its global EHS requirements. The 
program has evolved from using internally developed standards, prior to the availabilit y of globally accepted 
standards, to applying external standards to develop and achieve EHS program objectives. Baxter currently 
applies the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001 Environmental Management System 
Standard to systematical ly manage its environmental programs, and the Occupational Health and Safety 
Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001 to properly manage hazards that pose risk to employees. Successful ISO 
14001 and OHSAS 18001 assessments verify that a facility's management system  enables compliance with 
relevant regulations and company policy. Following a successful corporate EHS audit, an external auditing and 
certification body may recommend a facility for certification to these standards.  
As part of subscribing to ISO 14001 and  OHSAS 18001, Baxter uses management tools at the facility, 
business unit, regional and corporate levels to identify EHS aspects1 and hazards, assess risks, set goals and 
prioritize risk -reduction initiatives. Facilities must review and update their EHS as pects, hazards and risk 
assessments as conditions change.  
ISO 14001 Certification  
Baxter generally requires third -party certification to ISO 14001 for the company’s manufacturing and research 
and development sites, and distribution sites with a capacity of  more than 10,000 filled pallets or a workforce of 
100 or more people. Exceptions may be granted based on company criteria. Facilities that do not meet these 
criteria still may choose to apply ISO 14001 standards and seek certification to improve their env ironmental 
performance. Baxter subjects newly acquired facilities to a phase -in plan and evaluates those sites against the 
certification standards within two years of acquisition. As of year -end 2010, 68 Baxter locations, which are all of 
the facilities re quired to do so per Baxter policy, have met the requirements of ISO 14001 and are covered by 
Baxter’s group certificate (see map).   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/ehs -program/ehs -management -systems.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
OHSAS 18001 Certification  
Baxter recommends but does not require facility certification to OHSAS 18001. Manufacturing, rese arch and 
development, and distribution sites that have achieved third -party ISO 14001 certification generally also pursue 
third-party OHSAS 18001 certification, as it helps improve a facility’s health and safety programs. Baxter 
incorporates OHSAS 18001 pr inciples into corporate EHS audits even at facilities that do not pursue 
certification.  
As of year -end 2010, 49 Baxter locations (see map) were certified  to OHSAS 18001.2 
Global Certifications  
In 1997, Baxter began to certify a group of facilities to ISO 1 4001, working with ERM Certification and 
Verification Services, the company’s external auditing and certification body. Since then, Baxter’s group 
certification has evolved into a global certification including 68 facilities worldwide.3 In 2007, Baxter als o 
established a group certificate for OHSAS 18001.4 
With its global certifications, Baxter has improved consistency in evaluating individual facilities, and therefore, 
in implementing its overall EHS program. Specifically, the group certificate requires Ba xter to focus on areas  
of weakness across all facilities managed under the certificate. Additionally, the company can reduce the 
frequency and costs of audits by the external certification body.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/ehs -program/ehs -management -systems.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
View facility list.  
1 An environmental aspect is an elem ent of an organization's activities, products or services that can interact with the environment, for example, air emissions,  
 wastewater discharges, or energy use.  
2 Certification to OHSAS 18001 is not accredited to the same level as ISO 14001.  
3 This co vers the facilities described in the ISO 14001 Certification section above.  
4 This covers the facilities described in the OHSAS 18001 Certification section above.  
 
 
 
 
http://www.s ustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/ehs -program/ehs -audits.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
EHS Audits  
 
Baxter's environmental, health and safety (EHS) audit process verifies tha t the company’s facilities have  
EHS programs that meet Baxter’s EHS requirements, objectives and goals. The company staffs the audit 
teams with professionals from the corporate EHS audit group and the EHS organization. ERM Certification  
and Verification Services conducts certification audits to the International Organization for Standardization 
(ISO) 14001 Environmental Management System Standard and/or the Occupational Health and Safety 
Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001, as appropriate. When auditors ident ify gaps, the audit team works  
with facility management to ensure they fully understand the issues.  
Throughout the year, the EHS organization reviews the most common audit findings to systematically  
address identified issues, revise corporate policy (whe n needed) and prioritize company initiatives.  
EHS audits identified hazardous materials management as the top finding for 2010, a trend since 2007.  
The EHS organization’s environmental functional team continues to address this challenge.  
Baxter requires c losure of regulatory nonconformities within 60 days of an audit’s conclusion, and all other 
nonconformities within 180 days. Baxter’s EHS Audit Escalation Procedure helps inform senior management  
of any overdue nonconformities. Baxter’s new EHS informatio n management system, launched in 2010, 
enables the company’s facilities and corporate EHS audit group to further improve management of  
these issues.  
In addition to facility audits, the corporate EHS group also included the following regulatory areas in th e  
2011 audit schedule: compliance with regulations and policies that govern dangerous goods shipping; 
producer responsibility requirements in Europe; Baxter EHS policy related to construction contractors; and 
focused wastewater audits. The group also cont inued its collaboration with the company’s Supplier Quality 
Audit organization to extend its reach to identify significant EHS risks at select suppliers’ manufacturing 
locations. In 2010, the EHS audit group participated in a pilot of a supplier quality au dit and plans to continue 
this work in 2011. See Managing Supplier Performance for more  information.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/ehs -program/ehs -audits.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Baxter selects facilities to audit based on risk profile, management system certification needs and other 
factors, such as management turnover and nega tive EHS performance trends.  
In 2010, Baxter conducted EHS audits of 26 out of 110 applicable facilities. Of these, 13 were in Baxter’s 
Europe, Middle East and Africa region; four were in North America and the Caribbean; five were in Asia 
Pacific; and four  were in Latin America. In 2010, Baxter also conducted audits that focused exclusively on  
EHS risks related to driver safety, producer responsibility requirements, and supplier EHS issues.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/ehs -program/ehs -audits.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/compliance/environmental.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Environmental Compliance  
 
Baxter assesses its performance  in environmental compliance using several measures:  
• Notices of violation (NOV)  - A written notice from a governmental agency that identifies environmental 
noncompliance.  
• Environmental fines  - Fines paid in the calendar year related to environmental compli ance issues.  
• Environmental compliance incidents  - Releases that exceed permit limits (exceedances) and other spills 
or releases that must be reported to the government. Some of these exceedances may result in NOVs.  
 
Baxter received nine environmental NOVs in 2010, the same as in 2009. Three were related to wastewater, 
compared to six in 2009. Two were related to unpermitted releases to air and one related to the release of 
approximately 90 liters of a process chemical to land. The remaining three NOVs perta ined to the late payment 
of a fee, deficiencies in a facility’s spill prevention plan, and the late submittal of a report. Baxter paid a $1,000 
fine for the late report submittal. The company paid no other environmental fines in 2010.  
Environmental Notices  of Violation and Fines  
 2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  
Wastewater NOVs  12 16 8 7 6 3 
Other Environmental NOVs  5 1 2 3 3 6 
Total Environmental NOVs  17 17 10 10 9 9 
Total Environmental Fines  $11,825  $1,500  $4,591  $0 $800  $1,000  
 
To reduce regulatory ri sk and enhance the company’s focus on operational control, Baxter set a goal to  
decrease environmental compliance incidents 50% by 2010, compared to 2005. Unfortunately the company  
did not achieve this goal, as environmental compliance incidents increased  71% during that period. While 
Baxter did not meet this target, the company did increase awareness and emphasis on environmental 
compliance during that period. Baxter remains committed to improving its performance in this area, and has  
set a new goal to r educe environmental compliance incidents 75% by 2015, compared to 2005.  
In 2010, the majority of Baxter’s exceedances occurred at two facilities. The company’s Lessines, Belgium, 
facility reported 21 wastewater exceedances. These were primarily temperature  exceedances, in which the 
temperature varied within three degrees Celsius above the permit limit. In addition, Baxter’s Sabiñanigo, Spain, 
facility reported 28 wastewater exceedances, primarily involving increased flow of treated wastewater. Both 
faciliti es have worked with local environmental authorities to ensure that actions taken are satisfactory.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/compliance/environmental.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Environmental Compliance Incidents*  
 2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  
Air 2 2 1 1 4 2 
Land  0 0 1 1 1 1 
Drinking Water  1 0 0 0 0 0 
Wastewater  38 30 32 33 39 67 
Total  41 32 34 35 44 70 
 
*Subsequent to publishing Baxter’s 2009 Sustainability Report, the company received information from its  
  facilities related to permit exceedances that warranted correction of 2006 - 2009 data. Instead of a 29%  
  reducti on in environmental incidents from 2005 to 2009 the corrected data show a 7% increase during  
  that period.  
 
As illustrated in the tables, most of Baxter’s environmental compliance incidents have been related to 
wastewater. The table below provides a brea kdown of wastewater incidents by type in 2010.  
Wastewater Environmental Compliance Incidents in 2010  
Type  % of Total  
Flow  40% 
Temperature  30% 
Biochemical Oxygen Demand/ Chemical Oxygen Demand  7% 
Chloride  4% 
Dissolved Sulfides  4% 
pH 3% 
Phosphate  3% 
Total Phosphorous  3% 
Acetone  2% 
Fecal Coliform  2% 
Total Suspended Solids  2% 
 
In 2010, approximately 76% of Baxter’s wastewater -related exceedances were discharged directly to surface 
waterways, such as rivers, streams or creeks. The remaining 24% occu rred at facilities that discharge to 
regional or municipal wastewater treatment systems.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/compliance/environmental.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
In both cases of discharges to waterways and to municipal wastewater treatment systems, the regulatory 
agencies involved generally viewed Baxter’s responses as suffi cient and have not pursued enforcement 
activities. During the year, Baxter did not receive any communication from a municipal wastewater treatment 
system indicating that the company’s discharges impacted the wastewater treatment plant’s operations. 
Neverth eless, Baxter has applied internal and external legal and engineering resources to evaluate compliance 
and technical solutions. Baxter plans to conduct follow -up wastewater compliance -focused reviews of these 
sites in 2011 to ensure appropriate steps conti nue to be taken to mitigate risk. See Water and Wastewater  
for more detail.  
The following table summarizes overall environmental compliance incidents in 2010, by facility.  
Environmental Compliance Incidents by Facility in 2010  
Region/Country/State or 
Province  City Description  
Europe  
Belgium  Lessines  Twenty -one wastewater  incidents related to 
temperature and total phosphorous  
Ireland  Castlebar  Eight wastewater  incidents related to biochemical 
oxygen demand, chemical oxygen demand, 
chloride and pH  
Spain  Sabiñánigo  Twenty -eight wastewater  incidents related to flow 
and chemical oxygen demand  
North America  
United States, California  Los Angeles  One wastewater  incident related to pH and one land 
incident related to a process chemical accidentally 
released t o a municipal drain  
United States, California  Thousand Oaks  Two wastewater  incidents related to total 
suspended solids and acetone  
United States, Illinois  Round Lake  Two wastewater  incidents related to total 
phosphorous and fecal coliform  
United States,  New Jersey  Cherry Hill  Three wastewater  incidents related to dissolved 
sulfides  
United States, North Carolina  Marion  Two air incidents related to visible emissions  
United States, Puerto Rico  Jayuya  Two wastewater  incidents related to phosphate  
  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/compliance/environmental.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Manag ing Waste Liability  
To manage waste disposal appropriately and minimize the risk of future liability, Baxter requires facilities  
to dispose of all hazardous or other regulated waste at disposal sites that Baxter has inspected or from  
which the company ha s otherwise received sufficient assurance of acceptable EHS performance.  
Baxter applies the same waste site auditing standards worldwide, and trains internal auditors to evaluate 
disposal site risk consistently regardless of local customs and culture. In a ddition, Baxter works with 
CHWMEG, Inc., a non -profit organization that enables companies to collectively purchase expert  
waste site audits.  
Baxter is involved as a potentially responsible party (PRP) for environmental clean -up costs at eight  
hazardous w aste sites. Under the U.S. Superfund statute and many state laws, generators of hazardous  
waste sent to a disposal or recycling site are liable for site cleanup if contaminants from that property later  
leak into the environment. The laws generally provid e that a PRP may be held jointly and severally liable  
for the costs of investigating and remediating the site. The estimated exposure to Baxter for the eight sites 
mentioned above was approximately $2.5 million at year -end 2010. Baxter also reached settle ment 
agreements with the U.S. EPA for its potential liability at two Superfund sites.  
Separate from the Superfund cases noted above, Baxter paid approximately $100,000 for remediation  
at the company’s Irvine, California, United States, facility in 2010.  
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/compliance/health -and-safety.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Health and Safety Compliance  
 
In 2010, Baxter recorded three health and safety -related notices of violation (NOV):  
• One NOV issued to Baxter’s Alliston, Canada, facility for material handling, fall protection and machine 
guarding deficiencies.  
• One NOV i ssued to a Baxter plasma -collection facility in Manesha, Wisconsin, United States, for improper 
disinfection of working surfaces. Baxter paid a $945 fine related to this NOV.  
• One NOV issued to Baxter’s Waukegan, Illinois, United States, facility for failur e to conduct annual integrity 
testing on tank system.  
 
Baxter continues to implement program improvements related to these matters.  
In January 2011, three workers were involved in an accident in which one died and two others were injured  
at the company’s Los Angeles, California, United States, facility. The incident involved entry into a tank used  
in the production process. Baxter continues to focus on reinforcing its safety procedures, re -training workers 
involved in tank operations, evaluating emergency  response training and conducting additional risk 
assessments throughout the plant. Baxter’s environment, health and safety team is taking similar actions  
at facilities throughout the company. The plant and the company will continue to evaluate and enhanc e 
procedures and employee training to mitigate the likelihood of future incidents.  
Health and Safety Compliance  
 2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  
Citations Settled  1 3 2 2 6 3 
Fines Paid  
(in dollars)  0 $10,740*  0 $45,000** $1,733  $945  
 
 *The data reported  includes a fine of $7,500 that Baxter paid in connection with a U.S. Federal Aviation  
  Administration/hazardous materials transportation matter at its Beltsville, Maryland, United States, facility.  
**The data reported includes a fine of $30,000 that Bax ter paid in connection with a U.S. Federal Aviation  
  Administration/hazardous materials transportation matter at its Tampa, Florida, United States, facility.  
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/performance -at-a-
glance.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Environmental Performance At -a-Glance  
 
In 2010, Baxter concluded its 
final year of progress against 
its 2010 environmental goals, 
launched a new set of EHS 
goals for 2015 and continued 
working toward  its 2015 
sustainability goals. As the 
graph below indicates, Baxter 
met or exceeded its 2010 
energy usage, greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions and water 
usage goals. Progress toward 
the total waste -reduction and 
environmental incidents -
reduction goals slowed due to 
increased waste generation 
from Baxter's BioScience 
operations and wastewater 
exceedances at two locations 
in Europe.  
Energy Usage  
Baxter is tw o-thirds of the way 
to meeting its 2015 goal to 
reduce energy usage by 30% 
indexed to revenue, compared 
to 2005, achieving a 20% 
decrease through 2010. 
Progress toward this goal  
 
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/performance -at-a-
glance.html  
© Copyright 2011 B axter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  slowed in 2010 due to the implementation of a cogeneration system at the com pany’s Castlebar, Ireland, 
facility that increased energy usage even while decreasing indirect and direct GHG emissions. Cogeneration 
systems elevate facility energy usage because fuel combustion losses associated with on -site electrical 
generation are att ributed to the facility rather than the electrical utility. Baxter will maintain an aggressive 
energy -management program, grounded in “Lean” energy standards that manufacturing facilities  
companywide continue to implement.  
Greenhouse Gas Emissions  
Baxter is 64% of the way to meeting its 2015 goal to reduce GHG emissions by 45% indexed to revenue, 
compared to 2005, achieving a 29% decrease through 2010. The company will drive continual performance 
improvement through ongoing programs and projects in energy conservation, installing cogeneration systems 
at select locations, sourcing renewable energy and purchasing emissions credits and offsets.  
Total Waste  
Baxter is on track to meet its 2015 goal to reduce total waste by 30% indexed to revenue, compared to 200 5, 
achieving a 20% decrease through 2010. The company has renewed its efforts and dedicated additional 
resources to reduce plastics waste, and continues to implement facility -based initiatives.  
Water Usage  
Baxter is close to achieving its 2015 goal to redu ce water usage by 35% indexed to revenue, compared to 
2005, realizing a 31% decrease through 2010. Baxter attributes this to senior management focus on and 
accountability for reducing facility water usage, insights gained by conducting water balances and c reating 
value stream maps, and heightened attention on water during energy assessments.  
Environmental Incidents  
Unfortunately, Baxter did not achieve its 2010 goal to reduce environmental compliance incidents by 50% 
compared to 2005, as incidents increased  71% during that period. Most of the performance slip was driven  
by two facilities, Lessines, Belgium, and Sabiñanigo, Spain, that experienced ongoing compliance issues 
related to slightly elevated wastewater discharge readings for temperature and flow, r espectively. While  
Baxter did not meet its target, the company used these incidents to increase awareness and emphasis on 
environmental compliance during that period, and has a goal to reduce environmental compliance incidents  
by 75% by 2015.  
Environment al Financial Statement  
The following table describes environmental income, savings and cost avoidance realized in 2010 from 
activities completed during the year, along with environmental program costs.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/performance -at-a-
glance.html  
© Copyright 2011 B axter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
See the 2010 Environmental Financial Statement for  more detail.  
 
Environmental Income, Savings and Cost Avoidance, 2010 (Dollars in Millions)  
Energy Use  $(1.5)  
Total Waste Generation  6.7 
Recycling Income  5.9 
Water Use  0.4 
Total Environmental Income, Savings and Cost Avoidance  $11.5  
 
Environmental Prog ram Costs, 2010 (Dollars in Millions)  
Basic Program Costs  $18.7  
Remediation, Waste and Other Response Costs  9.7 
Total Environmental Program Costs  $28.4  
 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/air -emissions.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Air Emissions  
 
Due to an aggressive air toxics 
reduction program initiated in 1988 and 
reinvig orated in 1996, Baxter reduced 
toxic air emissions from its operations 
by more than 98% from 1988 through 
2005. The company continues to 
monitor its air emissions and supports 
facility -led initiatives in this area. 
However, due to this progress, Baxter 
focuses its environmental programs 
and goals on other issues.  
Baxter's toxic air emissions increased 
to approximately 25.5 metric tons in 
2010, a 6% rise in absolute terms from 
2009 and a 4% increase indexed to 
revenue. This was due primarily to 
greater plast ic extrusion activity at two 
locations. Baxter will continue to 
evaluate and install additional emission 
control technologies where necessary 
and feasible to further reduce air 
emissions associated with certain 
manufacturing activities.  
Baxter's estimated combined nitrogen 
oxide (NOx) and sulfur oxide (SOx) 
emissions related to onsite fuel usage 
decreased by 14% in absolute terms 
and 34% indexed to revenue from 2005 
to 2010. Baxter has reduced NOx and  
 
 
http://www.sustainab ility.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/air -emissions.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  SOx emissions through energy conservation companywide and a transition from heavy fuel oils to lighter  
 diesel fuels and natural gas at some locations. For example, the company’s Castlebar, Ireland, facility began 
operation of a natural gas -powered co -generation system in early 2010. As a result, Baxter’s hea vy fuel usage 
decreased by nearly 20% compared to 2009 and associated SOx emissions decreased by approximately 14%.  
About 48% of Baxter’s NOx emissions occur within North America. This is due to relatively high use of natural 
gas at most of the company’s N orth American facilities, along with the use of biomass for steam production  
at one of its largest manufacturing facilities.  
Nearly 90% of Baxter’s SOx emissions are from facilities outside of North America, due to higher use  
of furnace fuel oils at thes e locations.  
 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/biodiversity.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Biodiversity  
 
According to the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), the effective protection and use of 
biodiversity at all levels – genes, species and ecosystems – is a precondition for sustainable development.1 
However, human a ctivities worldwide continue to cause the loss of plant and animal species at 1,000 to 10,000 
times the historical rate.2 From 1970 to 2005, ground -living vertebrate species declined by an estimated 25%, 
freshwater species by 25% and marine species by 28%.3 
Baxter and Biodiversity  
While biodiversity is not a focus of Baxter’s nine sustainability priorities, it is an element of Baxter's Bioethics 
Policy: "Baxter recognizes that protecting the environment and maintaining the biological diversity of our planet  
is of vital importance to human life." By endorsing the Ceres Principles,  Baxter has committed to preservation 
of the biosphere. Principle 1 states "we will safeguard all habitats affected by our operations and will protect 
open spaces and wilderness, whi le preserving biodiversity."  
Baxter owns or leases approximately 910 hectares of land, about one -quarter of which is impermeable surface. 
Although 24 of Baxter’s 58 manufacturing and research and development facilities are located in 12 of the 
world's biod iversity "hot spots"4 as identified by Conservation International, the company’s operations typically 
are located in light industrial areas in metropolitan regions. While Baxter does not require its facilities to report 
on activities to protect biodiversit y, the company encourages its sites to understand their impact on biodiversity 
and incorporate conservation of biodiversity into environmental management systems where appropriate.  
Local Efforts  
Many Baxter facilities worldwide are involved in habitat rest oration activities such as tree planting, which 
enhances biodiversity while providing additional benefits such as reducing surface water runoff, decreasing  
soil erosion and increasing carbon sequestration.  
Costa Rica  
Baxter’s facility in Cartago, Costa Ri ca, has been engaged in a regional tree -planting initiative with the local 
government since 2008. As part of the initiative, the facility’s Engineering and Supply Chain employees 
collaborated to calculate the site’s carbon footprint and then planted the re quired number of trees to achieve   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/biodiversity.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
carbon neutrality. The team worked with Fundación Tropical Sierra to plant  native trees and with forest 
engineers to provide the global positioning satellite (GPS) information for each tree planted. The trees are 
growin g in a municipal area near a stream that supplies water to four communities in the Cartago province  
(see photo). GPS data enables Baxter employees to visit their trees, and for Fundación Tropical Sierra to 
provide protection for each tree for three years until it is less vulnerable. The facility purchased trees in  
2010 and is awaiting direction from the local government on where to plant them.  
Also in Costa Rica during the year, the Baxter Americas Services (BAS) group undertook two tree -planting 
initiati ves. First, employees and their families volunteered to plant 500 trees, donated by the local government 
of the city of San José, as part of the city’s reforestation program. On another occasion, employees planted 
250 trees in a public park located in San Jose, known as Parque de La Paz. Recognizing these activities, 
Costa Rican President at the time Oscar Arias Sanchez, Ph.D., awarded BAS the "Blue Flag Award for 
Environmental Sustainability" for the second consecutive year. The award is given to companies  with action 
plans and demonstrated commitment to mitigate global warming.  
The BAS group in Costa Rica started planting trees in 2006 when a “Green Team” formed at the site, and  
has been active every year since.  
Switzerland  
Baxter employees in Switzerland  have undertaken projects to remove invasive species from environmental 
preserves throughout the country, allowing natural plant biodiversity to regenerate and flourish. In 2010, 
employees removed horsetail plants from a Mediterranean portion of the Zurich  Botanical Garden, golden  
rods from a protected area adjacent to the Zurich airport, and other species from hardwood forests in Opfikon 
and Bassersdorf.  
United States  
In early 2009, Baxter implemented an Environmentally Preferable Purchasing policy  at its  Deerfield, Illinois, 
United States, headquarters. Under the policy, Baxter purchases Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) -certified 
paper for use in printers and copiers. FSC -certified paper supports conservation, biodiversity, and responsible 
management of f orests that are used to log trees for paper production. During 2010 alone, Baxter 
headquarters purchased more than 13 metric tons of FSC paper. The company extended the program  
in 2010 to other Northern Illinois sites.  
Baxter has worked with the Chicago B otanic Garden in Glencoe, Illinois, United States, for more than  
25 years. The mission of the 156 -hectare garden, visited by about 800,000 people each year, is to promote  
the understanding and conservation of plants and the natural world.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/biodiversity.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Baxter contri buted financially to the new Chicago Botanic Garden Plant Science Center that opened in 
September 2009. The 3,500 -square -meter center provides laboratories and teaching facilities for more than 
200 Ph.D. scientists, land managers, students and interns, and  is home to a unique doctoral program in plant 
biology and conservation in conjunction with Northwestern University. Baxter’s ongoing financial support helps 
the Garden’s scientists, researchers and students make vital discoveries about plant survival, hab itat 
destruction, invasive species and restoration. Research performed at the Garden in 2010 demonstrated that 
removing invasive species and restoring plant diversity increases the ability of soil to store carbon compared  
to areas dominated by invasive sp ecies. Additionally, Baxter sponsors the Garden’s World Environment Week.  
Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Operations  
Baxter’s continued efforts to reduce energy usage and associated greenhouse gas emissions from  its 
operations and broader activities  also help protect biodiversity. According to E.O. Wilson, climate change  
alone may cause one -quarter of the earth's animal and plant species to become extinct or destined for 
extinction by 2050.5 
1  UNEP, Secretariat of the Convention on Biodiversity . 
2 E.O. Wilson, "The Future of Life."  
3 World Wildlife Fund report, "2010 and Beyond: Rising to the Biodiversity Challenge."  
4 A Hot Spot is an ecosystem that is biologically rich and endangered. Baxter has manufacturing or research and development sites in t he following  
 Conservation International Hot Spots: Atlantic Forest of Brazil, California Floristic Province, Caribbean Islands, Chilean Winter Rainfall Forest,  
 Indo -Burma, Japan, Mediterranean Basin, Mesoamerica, New Zealand, Philippines, Sundaland and Tropical Andes.  
5 E.O. Wilson, "The Future of Life."  
 
 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/ecoefficiency -raw-
materials -use.html  
© Cop yright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Eco-Efficiency / Raw Materials Use  
 
Efficient raw materials use has environmental and economic benefits. Baxter tracks the raw materials it uses  
in manufacturing, such as plastic resins, corrugat ed materials and chemicals.  
Overall raw materials usage increased 32% from 2005 to 2010 (see table), and increased 1% indexed to 
revenue. From 2009 to 2010, raw materials usage rose by about 11% due in part to increased demand for 
sodium chloride for solut ions and amino acids used in Baxter's nutritional products. This change also reflects 
more complete data collection in 2010 compared to previous years. Varying year -to-year inventory levels and 
other factors influence raw materials purchasing as well. This  makes it challenging to draw meaningful 
conclusions regarding material use efficiency based on annual purchasing data.  
As the cost of many raw materials continues to rise, Baxter is implementing more aggressive materials -
efficiency and waste -reduction eff orts. Historically, the company has focused on scrap reduction and reuse 
through its Value Improvement Program. This initiative encourages manufacturing facilities to identify and 
implement cost -savings projects, often related to enhancing production effic iencies. For example, many  
plastic processing sites regrind and reuse pre -consumer plastic scrap to save money and materials.  
Baxter's purchases of plastics and resins increased 10% from 2009 to 2010. The high cost of plastics 
increases Baxter's incentive  to use it as efficiently as possible. If plastic cannot be reused on -site, Baxter 
evaluates it for possible reuse at other locations. If that is not feasible, the company sends it off-site for  
recycling.  
While many Baxter container systems incorporate as much as 35% reground plastic from the manufacturing 
process, regulatory requirements prohibit Baxter from using post -consumer plastics in manufacturing. Some of 
Baxter's leading reusers of plastic are its facilities in Waluj, India; Cuernavaca, Mexico; Aib onito, Puerto Rico; 
and Mountain Home, Arkansas, and Marion, North Carolina, in the United States.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmen tal-performance/ecoefficiency -raw-
materials -use.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Major Materials Purchased for Manufacturing (Metric Tons)  
Material*, **, *** 2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  
Amino Acids  1,000  1,000  1,000  1,000  1,000  1,300 
Corrugated Materials  42,900  47,600  47,400  47,500  46,600  46,600  
Dextrose  17,900  17,900  18,500  19,300  19,500  25,500  
Pharmaceuticals (drugs)  100 100 100 100 100 100 
Plastics/Resins  67,400  68,800  76,600  84,600  90,000  99,000  
Sodium Chloride (salt)  13,100  12,600  12,500  12,600  12,000  15,700  
Total  142,400  148,000  156,100  165,100  169,200  188,200  
 
 * Amino acids have many functions in metabolism, and act as the building blocks of proteins. At Baxter their application includes biotherapeutics, regenerative 
medicines and vaccines. Corrugated materials are widely used in the manufacture of corrugated boxes and shipping containers used to package Baxter 
products. Dextrose is a simple sugar used to make solutions, which include Baxter's nutrition and intravenous ( IV) products. Pharmaceuticals (drugs) are 
chemical substances intended for use in the medical diagnosis, cure, treatment, or prevention of disease. Plastics/resins are used to make film for bags or 
accessory parts such as port tubes and over pouches and fo r solution sets in Baxter's Renal products. Sodium chloride (salt) is mixed with other liquids for 
Baxter's parenteral solutions used for injection.  
  ** Data for amino acids, dextrose, pharmaceutical drugs, and sodium chloride purchases are not available for the Latin America region prior to 2010. Data  
   for corrugated materials purchases are not available for the Latin America, Europe, Middle East and Africa, and Asia Pacific regions.  
*** Does not include raw materials usage from Baxter's BioScience bus iness.  
 
Packaging  
As illustrated in the table above, product packaging represents one of Baxter's main uses of materials.  
The company continues to implement packaging reduction projects, with an emphasis on high -volume  
product lines. The type of material s used is another area of focus. The vast majority of the corrugated  
material Baxter uses contains 30 -75% post -industrial and/or post -consumer recycled content.  
In 2010, Baxter continued to modify its environmental, health and safety information managemen t system  
to capture information related to packaging reduction projects and enhance the company's ability to spread 
best practices across the organization. See Packaging for more details about the company's initiatives and  
the Natural Resource Use Priori ty Update for information  about Baxter's progress against its packaging 
reduction goal.  
  
http://www.sustainabilit y.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/energy.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Energy  
 
Managing energy use effectively enhances business efficiency and conserves natural resources. Reducing 
fossil fuel combustion enhances air quality, decreas es fine particulates that contribute to adverse health 
effects, and reduces the generation of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, which contribute  to global warming 
and resulting climate change. Limiting the use of non -renewable energy sources also helps prese rve their 
availability for future generations.  
While energy conservation benefits the environment, it also makes good business sense for Baxter, since 
energy is among the company’s most significant manufacturing costs. Since 2005, while Baxter increased 
sales 30% through 2010, the company held absolute energy usage from operations, excluding company 
operated vehicles, to a 4% increase. However, due to sharply increasing energy prices, Baxter’s corresponding 
energy costs rose 38% during that period, to $159 million in 2010. This underscores the importance of Baxter’s 
ongoing energy conservation efforts, which have saved the company an average of more than $28 million 
annually since 2005.  
Baxter’s corporate energy management group oversees the company’s global  energy conservation activities 
and reports energy usage, cost and efficiency improvements quarterly to senior management. Since 2005, 
Baxter has increased the number of annual facility energy reviews, established and provided training on facility 
“Lean” e nergy standards and promoted best practices in energy management across the company. In addition, 
to encourage the implementation of energy efficiency projects, Baxter has lowered its minimum required 
internal rate of return by approximately 5% for energy projects.  
Lean Energy Program  
In 2007, Baxter launched a “Lean” energy program for the company’s principal manufacturing facilities. The 
program includes four sets of Lean energy standards – Pre-requisite, Bronze, Silver and Gold. Each category 
defines 25 to 30 requirements a facility’s energy program should meet to quality for that level. As illustrated in 
the table below, Baxter met or exceeded each of its targets for 2010 in this area, and achieved significant gains 
compared to 2009.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/energy.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Level of 
Achieveme nt Number of Sites 
Meeting 100% of 
Requirements at 
this Level (2010)  Average % of 
Requirements 
Met by Site  
(2010 target)  Average % of 
Requirements  
Met by Site  
(2010 actual)  Average % of 
Requirements 
Met by Site  
(2009 actual)  
Pre-requisite  61 100%  100%  100%  
Bronze  40 85% 98% 94% 
Silver  18 75% 89% 76% 
Gold 5 50% 54% 33% 
 
Baxter has seen a clear correlation between a site’s maturity level in the Lean energy program and its 
performance toward the company’s energy -reduction goal.  
Biennial Global Energy Conference  
Baxter Facilities Engineering Services, with the support of the company’s Manufacturing Council, coordinates  
a biennial Global Energy Conference for Baxter facility energy managers. Unlike prior years, Baxter held this 
conference virtually in 2 010 to reduce cost, decrease GHG emissions associated with travel and educate the 
network of energy managers about virtual meeting technology. ( See Case Study: Baxter's Energy Managers 
Convene Virtual Conference.)  
Performance  
Baxter extended its commitment  to reducing energy usage from operations from its original 2010 goal of a 20% 
reduction indexed to revenue, compared to 2005, to a 30% reduction by 2015, also indexed to revenue and 
compared to 2005. Energy usage from operations includes the energy used b y Baxter -managed and Baxter -
operated facilities.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/energy.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
From 2005 to 2010, energy consumption for Baxter operations increased by 4% in absolute terms and 
decreased by 20% indexed to revenue. This performance achieved the company’s 2010 energy improvement 
goal a nd puts Baxter on -track to meet its 2015 goal.  
 
  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/energy.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Energy consumption increased in the Asia Pacific region during this time period due to continued production 
growth in Baxter’s China and India operations. Additionally, the installation and commissioning of a natural 
gas-fired combined heat and power system (cogeneration) at Baxter’s Castlebar, Ireland, facility in early 2010 
raised energy consumption in the Europe, Middle East and Africa region. Cogeneration systems increase a 
facility’s overall energy fo otprint since losses previously attributed to the generating utility are now accounted 
for by the facility. However, the overall efficiency of energy utilization is increased since the facility can capture 
and use the waste heat from electricity generation . 
View more detail about  Baxter's energy usage and GHG emissions.  
  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/energy.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Energy Conservation Initiatives  
Baxter’s global energy management initiatives have saved the company more than $28 million annually  
since 2005.  
Energy efficiency gains achieved in 201 0 are due to systematic implementation of energy conservation 
projects. About every three years, Baxter reviews the primary and secondary utility systems at each 
manufacturing facility and large office to identify opportunities for improvement, covering st eam generation  
and distribution; water usage; electricity distribution; compressed air consumption; lighting; and heating, 
ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC).   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/energy.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Baxter’s Facilities Engineering Services provides quarterly updates to the Baxter Manufact uring Council on 
identified projects with acceptable return on investment (see Global Energy Management Activities section 
below for a description of the council). Examples of Baxter facility -based energy -conservation projects 
implemented in 2010 include t he following:  
• Multiple locations  – Baxter’s facility in Suzhou, China, installed 956 light emitting diode (LED) light fixtures, 
which will save an estimated 91,200 kWh of electricity annually. The company’s Rieti, Italy, facility installed 
LED fixtures in its new laboratory suite, projected to reduce electricity use by 25,000 kWh each year. 
Baxter’s facility in Marsa, Malta, converted 90% of its light fixtures to LED, and will save an estimated  
187,000 kWh and $36,000 yearly.  
• Brazil  – Baxter’s facility in Sao Paulo, Brazil, installed a ceramic roof that reduces solar heat gain and 
decreases building heating and cooling losses, and will save an estimated 84,600 kWh of energy yearly.  
The facility also expanded its use of solar tube lighting above the product ion mezzanine area, which will  
save another 500 kWh annually.  
• Spain  – Baxter’s facility in Sabiñánigo, Spain, installed a sterilizer heat and water recovery system that  
will save approximately 7 million kWh of natural gas and $227,000 annually.  
 
Global E nergy Management Activities  
Baxter’s Manufacturing Council sponsors the company's global energy management activities, which are part 
of an integrated energy -conservation, cost -reduction and GHG emissions reduction program. The following 
groups participate  in this program as noted:  
Group  Energy Management Activities  
Facilities 
Engineering 
Services  • Chairs Baxter’s Energy Steering Committee, comprised of corporate, regional and facility 
representatives  
• Develops energy -conservation and energy cost -reduction s trategies  
• Manages global energy -conservation programs, conducts energy balances and drives 
the Lean energy program  
• Tracks and reports facility energy usage, costs and progress against goals each quarter  
• Monitors global energy availability and price trends  
• Coordinates companywide technical resources, Web resources, regional training and 
Baxter’s biennial Global Energy Conference   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/energy.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Environment, 
Health and 
Safety  • Represented on Baxter’s Energy Steering Committee  
• Ensures environmental factors are considered in  energy management strategies, 
initiatives, GHG -reduction efforts and company policies  
• Manages Baxter’s global climate change response strategies and GHG -reduction 
activities  
• Tracks and reports company GHG emissions  
• Manages Baxter’s participation in the Ch icago Climate Exchange (CCX, now 
IntercontinentalExchange) and supports Baxter’s participation in the EU Emissions 
Trading Scheme  
Corporate 
Services and 
Administration  • Seeks cost -competitive energy sources, in partnership with Baxter's Purchasing and 
Supp lier Management organization  
• Manages natural gas purchasing for Baxter locations in the United States  
• Purchases renewable energy for specific Baxter facilities and products  
• Manages “carbon -neutral” status of corporate headquarters  
Purchasing and 
Supplier 
Management 
Organization  • Manages program to work with major Baxter suppliers to improve energy efficiency, 
reduce GHG emissions and enhance other supplier “green” initiatives  
• Provides assistance in energy purchasing  
• Manages energy efficiency of Baxter -opera ted vehicles, including car sales fleet and 
truck distribution fleet  
• Champions green building technologies and renewable energy projects for supply chain 
distribution locations  
Facility Energy 
Managers  • Implement facility -level energy -conservation, cost -reduction and GHG -reduction 
strategies  
• Apply available Baxter technical resources and best practices, participate in regional 
training and attend company -sponsored biennial Global Energy Conferences  
• Identify and implement energy -conservation projects  
• Evaluat e viable renewable energy options  
• Set annual facility energy usage and cost -reduction goals  
• Manage facility energy performance  
 
 
 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/ghg -emissions -and-
climate -change.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter Internati onal Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
GHG Emissions and Climate Change  
 
 
 
Baxter recognizes that climate change is one of the most pressing environmental and social challen ges  
facing the world today, with impacts that are broad and increasing.  
 Jonathan Nicol and other employees of Baxter's Sherbrooke, Quebec, Canada, facility h elp maintain nearly 6,000 trees that Baxter 
planted during the last five years to offset greenhouse gas emissions associated with the site's activities.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/ghg -emissions -and-
climate -change.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change1: 
• During 2010, several regions of the world experienced "severe weather related events", including 
widespread flooding in large parts of Asia and locations in Central Europe, mudslides in China, heat waves 
and drought in Russia, and severe droughts in sub -Saharan Africa.  
• Projected climate change -related exposures are likely to adversely affect the health of millions of people  
worldwide, particularly those least able to adapt, such as the poor, the very young and the elderly. Dealing 
decisively with climate change is therefore key to ensuring sustainable development, eradicating poverty and 
safeguarding economic growth.  
• Climate  change will have profound impacts on other species as well. Approximately 20 -30% of plant and 
animal species are likely to be at elevated risk of extinction if increases in global average temperature exceed 
1.5–2.5°C (above preindustrial global average te mperature).  
 
Multinational companies can help to address climate change by understanding their impacts and decreasing 
their total greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions through innovative reduction programs. These are core elements 
of Baxter's sustainability effor ts. 
Expanding the Scope of Baxter's Carbon Accounting  
Baxter launched several initiatives since 2009 to better understand the company's total GHG emissions 
footprint, estimated at 3.0 million metric tons in 2010. Data in some categories such as operations are more 
certain than in other categories such as supply chain, product transport and product use/end -of-life, which 
include certain assumptions and estimations. Baxter is working to refine data completeness and quality  
across all areas of the company's G HG emissions footprint.  
Click on each segment of this graphic to learn more about the company's activities and performance  
in that area.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/ghg -emissions -and-
climate -change.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
See Baxter’s Carbon Disclosure Project submissions for  additional GHG emissions data by scope as well as 
detail on  how the company perceives regulatory, physical and other risks and manages potential opportunities 
related to climate change.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/ghg -emissions -and-
climate -change.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Supply Chain  
Baxter worked with a UK -based firm in 2009 and 2010 to model estimated GHG emissions associated with  
the company’ s global supply chain – from the acquisition and processing of raw materials to the delivery of 
products to Baxter. The firm based its estimate on data from other companies in the healthcare sector and 
representative suppliers as well as publicly reported Baxter financial and environmental data. This estimate 
does not include emissions from the utilities that generate electricity purchased by Baxter, which are included 
under Baxter operations. Based upon this analysis, the emissions in Baxter’s supply chain  attributable to 
Baxter’s business activities equaled 1,152,000 metric tons carbon dioxide equivalent (CO 2e) in 2010, 37.8%  
of Baxter’s total GHG emissions footprint. This included an estimated 274,000 metric tons CO 2e emissions  
for Baxter’s first -tier s uppliers, and an estimated 878,000 metric tons CO 2e from sub -tier suppliers.2 
See Global Sustainable Supply Chain for more detail about Baxter’s efforts to encourage suppliers to improve 
environmental performance, including reducing GHG emissions.  
(Top)  
Operations  
Greenhouse gas emissions related to Baxter’s operations are due to facility energy use, Baxter -operated 
business aircraft, sales and distribution vehicles, and refrigerant losses.  
The company's approach to managing and reducing GHG emissions from operations comprises  
18 program and reduction strategies. Program strategies describe broader aspects of Baxter’s approach  
such as setting GHG emissions reduction goals, using an International Organization for Standardization  
(ISO) 14001 environmental m anagement system to drive energy and emissions reductions, measuring  
and reporting progress, and others. These are complemented by more specific GHG emissions reduction 
strategies such as fuel switching and cogeneration, installation of onsite renewable e nergy systems,  
purchase of renewable power, participation in carbon trading systems, and development and leasing of  
green "high -performance" buildings.  
From 2005 to 2010, Baxter decreased net GHG emissions from operations by 7% on an absolute basis  
and 29% indexed to revenue, exceeding its 2010 target of a 20% reduction indexed to revenue. Baxter has 
extended its commitment to reduce GHG emissions by 45% indexed to revenue by 2015, compared to 2005.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/ghg -emissions -and-
climate -change.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/ghg -emissions -and-
climate -change.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Total net emissions from operations of 739,000 me tric tons CO 2e in 2010 include a subtraction of the following:  
• 50,000 metric tons CO 2e due to purchased electricity generated from certified renewable energy in Austria, 
Spain and the United States;  
• 10,000 metric tons CO 2e of carbon credits purchased on th e Chicago Climate Exchange (CCX, now 
IntercontinentalExchange); and  
• 2,000 metric tons CO 2e combined from the purchase of carbon offsets in Asia and support of a carbon 
sequestration project in Canada.  
 
The total of 62,000 metric tons CO 2e for these items i s equivalent to approximately 8% of emissions  
 from operations during the year.  
The following table describes the sources of GHG emissions from operations during 2010.  
GHG Emissions from Baxter Operations, 2010*  
 Metric 
Tons CO 2e Percent of 
Total  Primary GHG Reduction 
Focus  
Facility Electricity Use  461,000  57.6%  Energy conservation  
Facility Fuel Use  259,000  32.3%  Energy conservation  
Baxter Operated Sales, Distribution and Other 
Business Vehicles  50,000  6.2%  Improved vehicle efficiency  
Refrigerant Relat ed Emissions  31,000  3.9%  Switching to lower GHG 
potential refrigerants  
Subtotal  801,000  100%   
Purchase of Renewable Energy (Electricity) and 
GHG Emissions Credits/Offsets  62,000    
Total  739,000    
 
* See the Wood Boiler section below for detail about em issions from a wood -fired boiler that uses wood scrap  
  as an input fuel at one of Baxter’s locations.  
 
View more detail about  Baxter's energy usage and GHG emissions.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/ghg -emissions -and-
climate -change.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Energy Management  
Energy usage accounts for approximately 96% of Baxter's GHG emissi ons from operations. Therefore, energy 
conservation is core to Baxter's GHG emissions -reduction efforts. The company's primary source of energy is 
electricity, which represents more than 57% of GHG emissions from operations (see table above).  
Energy -relate d GHG -reduction activities include the use of innovative technologies such as low energy light 
emitting diode (LED) lighting, fuel switching (such as from fuel oil to natural gas, a lower carbon fuel), and 
cogeneration, currently in use at select company l ocations in Ireland, Spain and Turkey. For more detail on 
these and other activities, see Energy.  
Renewable Energy  
During 2010, Baxter purchased 129,800 megawatt hours (MWh) of electricity generated from 100% certified 
renewable power. This included 78,300  MWh for company operations in Austria and Spain and 51,500 MWh  
of certified renewable energy certificates (RECs) for U.S. operations. Baxter was recognized as the 23rd 
largest corporate purchaser of renewable energy in the United States for 2010.3 
Baxter  has also supported or piloted several on -site renewable energy projects during the last several years, 
including the following:  
• 2010  – Baxter installed solar photovoltaic (PV) systems at its Los Angeles, California, United States, and 
Aibonito, Puerto Ric o facilities.  
• 2009  – Baxter began to lease its new European headquarters in Zurich, Switzerland, which has a rooftop 
solar PV system.  
• 2008  – Baxter installed solar PV systems at its Sintra, Portugal, and Valencia, Spain, offices and distribution 
facilities . 
• 2002 -2008  – Baxter facilities in Austria and Puerto Rico piloted cleaner -burning biodiesel and natural -gas 
vehicles.  
• 2000 -2009  – Facilities in China, India, Malta, Puerto Rico and the United States (Illinois) have installed rooftop 
solar systems to pre -heat water for facility use and/or to generate electricity.  
 
As world energy prices rise and carbon constraints intensify, Baxter will continue to adopt, where feasible, 
renewable energy and alternative lower -carbon fuels.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/ghg -emissions -and-
climate -change.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Green Buildings  
High -performance  green buildings provide many benefits that enhance employee productivity and reduce 
operating expense. Baxter's new European headquarters in Zurich, Switzerland, includes features such as 
natural lighting, water -based cooling and heating, and rooftop sola r PV panels. As a result, it offers a pleasant 
working environment and uses nearly 80% less energy than a typical office building of comparable size.  
The company has incorporated green -building design principles and achieved or is working toward  
U.S. Gree n Building Council Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certification at  
several sites, including a Baxter facility in Vienna, Austria, (achieved U.S. Green Building Council LEED  
Gold certification in 2011); Rome, Italy, (achieved LEED Si lver certification in 2011) and Mississauga,  
Canada, (targeting LEED Gold certification in 2011).  
(Top)  
Wood Boiler  
In 2010, 5.3% of Baxter's total GHG emissions footprint was from the use of a wood -fired boiler that uses  
wood scrap as an input fuel at o ne of Baxter's locations. During the year, emissions from this wood -fired boiler 
equaled 162,000 metric tons CO 2e. Following the Greenhouse Gas Protocol4, the company reports data for 
CO ₂ emissions from biologically sequestrated carbon (such as from burning biomass/biofuels) separately from 
its total emissions from operations (Scope 1 and 2) and does not include these emissions in progress against 
its 2010 or 2015 GHG emissions reduction goals. See more detail in the table, Baxter's Energy Usage and 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions.  
(Top)  
Product Transport  
Baxter's Supply Chain and Environmental, Health and Safety organizations worked together in 2009 and 2010 
to perform an internal study to estim ate global GHG emissions associated with delivering finished products to 
customers. The company used emissions factors from the Greenhouse Gas Protocol to calculate GHG 
emissions for five modes of shipment (truck, rail, air, river barge and ocean), within and between regions. 
Baxter estimates these GHG emissions equaled 746,000 metric tons CO 2e in 2010, 24.5% of the company's 
total footprint. This does not include the emissions of Baxter's vehicle fleet, including sales and distribution 
vehicles, which the company includes in its total from Operations (see above).  
See Product Transport for more information about initiatives in this area.  
(Top)  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/ghg -emissions -and-
climate -change.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Employee Business Travel/Commuting  
Greenhouse gas emissions related to employee business travel and commuting equaled 131,000 metric  
tons CO 2e in 2010, 4.3% of the company's total GHG emissions footprint. Employee business travel -related 
emissions, which totaled 45,000 metric tons CO 2e during the year, include commercial air travel, rental cars 
and related hotel stays. These calculations (including extrapolation when necessary) are based on data 
supplied by Baxter's travel providers.  
Baxter estimates GHG emissions from employee commuting at 86,000 metric tons CO 2e in 2010, based  
on employee population counts by region and approximate average commute distance. The company  
offers incentives to enc ourage less impactful forms of commuting, such as employee rideshare, financial 
contributions for public transportation, and in some locations, Baxter -hired buses to provide employees 
transportation to and from work.  
(Top)  
Product Use/End -of-Life 
Baxter es timates that the GHG emissions (which are mostly energy -related) associated with the use and  
end-of-life disposition of its products equaled roughly 115,000 metric tons CO 2e in 2010, equivalent to 3.8%  
of the company's total GHG emissions footprint. This  includes all Baxter products, except anesthesia gas 
products, that the company assumes were in use during 2010 as well as products that reached end of life 
during the year.  
Baxter also is working to quantify GHG emissions associated with the manufacture, hospital use and disposal 
of Baxter anesthesia gases. Sources such as the International Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) note that 
anesthesia gases have high global warming potentials. Baxter plans to continue this assessment and include 
related GHG emission s in a future Baxter Sustainability Report. See Product Responsibility for more detail 
about Baxter's efforts to improve the environmental performance of its products.  
(Top)   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/ghg -emissions -and-
climate -change.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Carbon Neutrality  
Beginning in 2005, Baxter has used various means such as elect ricity generated from certified renewable 
energy, carbon credits and carbon offsets to achieve and maintain "carbon neutrality" at three locations: its 
headquarters in Deerfield, Illinois, United States (2007), and manufacturing facilities in Sherbrooke, C anada 
(2005), and Cartago, Costa Rica (2007). In each case, at a minimum, the company offset facility -related 
emissions from purchased electricity as well as fuel combustion on site.  
In addition, the company has offset GHG emissions associated with manufac turing certain products and 
product delivery in specific regions:  
• In 2007, Baxter launched AVIVA, a non -PVC, non -DEHP, non -latex intravenous (IV) medication -delivery 
solutions container, in the United States. From 2007 through 2010 the company offset 100% of the emissions 
associated with the electricity used to produce this family of products through the purchase of certified 
renewable (wind) energy.  
• From 2008 through the first half of 2010, Baxter offset the life cycle GHG emissions of its Viaflo product, a 
non-PVC flexible intravenous (IV) bag, for customers in the United Kingdom, totaling 6,640 metric tons CO 2e  
in first half of 2010. See the 2008 case study, Carbon -Neutral Products in the United Kingdom, for more detail. 
After the first half of 2010 this  initiative was discontinued pending additional evaluation of its costs and 
benefits.  
• Beginning mid -year 2008 and through 2010, Baxter delivered all products from its main Northampton, United 
Kingdom, warehouse to customers in the United Kingdom on a carbo n-neutral basis. GHG emissions offset 
through these efforts totaled 2,480 metric tons CO 2e in 2010.  
 
(Top)  
Emissions Trading – Applying Market -Based Solutions  
Baxter has used a market -based approach (carbon cap -and-trade) to gain experience in the voluntar y  
U.S. emissions trading market, to offset some of its GHG emissions, and to meet obligations for one facility 
that is subject to the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme.  
In 2003, Baxter became a founding member of the Chicago Climate Exchange (CCX, n ow 
IntercontinentalExchange), which was the world's first and North America's only carbon cap -and-trade  
system for all six greenhouse gases. Baxter participated in the IntercontinentalExchange Phase 1 program 
(2003 -2006) as well as Phase II (2007 -2010).   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/ghg -emissions -and-
climate -change.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Through its involvement in the IntercontinentalExchange, Baxter was the first company to purchase soil -based 
carbon credits offered by Illinois farmers and landowners through the Illinois Conservation and Climate 
Initiative in 2007. Baxter was also the fi rst company, in 2006, to transfer emissions credits between the 
European Union Emissions Trading Scheme and the IntercontinentalExchange, demonstrating the potential of 
international carbon exchanges to link to form a unified global carbon market.  
(Top)  
Public Policy – Advocating Solutions to Address Climate Change  
Baxter issued a formal position on energy and climate change in October 2001. The company's position has 
underpinned its public policy activity on this issue over the last decade, such as present ing recommendations 
for a national GHG emissions cap -and-trade scheme before the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate 
staff in 2006. Baxter has also been involved at the state and local levels, for example sponsoring an employee 
to serve as one of thre e vice -chairs on the 2007 State of Illinois Climate Change Advisory Group. During recent 
years, however, the company's governmental affairs efforts have focused primarily on healthcare reform. See 
Public Policy for detail.  
(Top)  
Affiliations and Recognitio n 
Baxter is involved in numerous national and international organizations focused on climate change, such as 
Ceres, the IntercontinentalExchange  (see above) and the Pew Center on Global Climate Change. The 
company has received various recognitions in this area.  
1  The content in these bullets is taken directly from or draws heavily on the document "Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 2011 Fact Sheets; Climate 
Change Science and The Need for Strong Global Action on Climate Change".  
2 First-tier supplie rs are suppliers from which Baxter purchases directly. Sub -tier suppliers are further down in the supply chain, including (but not limited to) 
areas such as raw materials extraction and processing.  
3 According to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. S ee www.epa.gov/grnpower/toplists/fortune500.htm  
4  See Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Rev. Edition, Reporting of GHG Emissions, page 63.  
  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/ghg -emissions -and-
climate -change.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  
 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health-safety/2010 -environmental -performance/waste.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Waste  
 
Baxter has recognized waste generation as a significant enviro nmental aspect of its operations since it 
established its first waste reduction goals in 1996. Early waste reduction efforts focused on decreasing 
potential risk and liability. Since the early 2000s, the company’s efforts in this area have also been motiva ted 
by potential financial gains and process efficiency.  
Baxter performs detailed tracking and analysis of reported waste data from each major facility. This enables 
the company to assess progress toward waste -reduction goals and identify opportunities to improve the 
efficiency of processes that generate waste. These activities help to reduce expenses related to raw materials, 
waste handling and disposal. Waste minimization also decreases environmental impacts associated with  
waste disposal and recycling.  
Baxter sites generate different types of waste. The company’s total waste goals, which combine   
non-hazardous and regulated waste, encourage each site to focus on the most relevant type of waste  
in its own operations. When Baxter defined its 2015 waste go al, it evaluated the company’s slower -than-
anticipated progress against its 2010 goal. Based on this analysis, Baxter elected to extend the target year  
of its goal to reduce total waste by 30% indexed to revenue from 2010 to 2015, compared to 2005. The 
company views the 2015 goal to be aggressive, challenging and consistent with Baxter’s manufacturing 
strategy and long -term plans.  
Total Waste Performance  
During 2010, Baxter's operations generated 59,37011 metric tons of total waste, up from 57,150 metric  
tons in 2005. This represents a 4% increase in absolute terms and a 20% decrease indexed to revenue.  
This performance fell short of the 2010 goal by 10%.  
To more closely reflect production efficiency, Baxter excludes certain non -routine, non production -related 
waste streams from its waste performance total and progress against its 2010 and 2015 waste goals. The 
company reports these waste streams separately as shown in the following table, which allows for more 
consistent evaluation of facility performance and trends over time.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/waste.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Off-site Recycling of Select Waste Streams  
 Amount Recycled (metric tons)  Proceeds from Recycling (dollars in 
thousands)  
Item  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  
Plastics  16,700  17,500  18,500  17,800  17,500  $5,496  $5,523 $6,974  $5,213  $6,871  
Corrugated  6,600  6,700  6,900  6,800  6,200  25 100 173 82 183 
Finished 
Product 
Discards  4,700  2,900  5,300  5,800  4,800  (556)  (648)  (929)  (1,041)  (707)  
Pallets  2,100  1,700  1,900  1,300  1,200  26 55 41 27 59 
All Paper  1,400  1,500  1,800 1,600  1,700  (80) (83) (117)  (165)  (72) 
Metal  800 900 800 1,200  1,100  149 186 142 123 305 
Glass  500 600 700 800 700 (9) (14) (23) (16) (9) 
Electrical 
Equipment  90 90 90 100 100 (35) (30) (16) (33) (23) 
Waste Oil and 
Fuel 20 20 20 10 70 (10) (11) (15) (9) (14) 
Other Recycled 
Non-Hazardous 
Waste*  1,610  2,000  1,400  1,600  4,700  (294)  (231)  (251)  (303)  (136)  
Recycled 
Regulated 
Waste 
Streams** 330 510 890 630 1,010  (335)  (431)  (385)  (314)  (511)  
Total  34,850  34,420  38,300  37,640  39,080  $4,375  $4,416  $5,594  $3,565  $5,945  
Percent of 
Total Waste 
Recycled  58% 56% 61% 61% 66% n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 
  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/waste.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Construction and demolition debris waste increased in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to several large 
expansion projects. The data also reflect improvements in  the tracking and reporting of these waste streams.  
Baxter’s environmental management system focuses on waste generation, and the company continues 
working to reduce waste overall. Baxter identifies its leading opportunities to decrease waste based on fact ors 
that include the highest volume waste streams across the company, facilities that produce the most waste,  
and sites with particularly strong potential to improve.  
  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/waste.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
 
Non-hazardous Waste Performance  
During 2010, Baxter's operations generated 54,000  metric tons of non -hazardous waste, 2% more than in 
2005 in absolute terms and a 22% decrease indexed to revenue.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/waste.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/waste.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
The use of new methodologies and management tools, such as Lean and Six Sigma, helped reduce  
non-hazardous waste at several facilities  during the year. For example:  
 
Other facilities have reduced waste by focusing on manufacturing efficiency and decreasing scrap. Baxter’s 
Lessines, Belgium; Castlebar, Ireland; and Woodlands, Singapore, facilities implemented such efforts, 
reducing manuf acturing waste by a combined 340 metric tons.  
Several facilities implemented projects focused on reducing packaging waste. Baxter’s Toongabbie, Australia; 
Cali, Colombia; Waluj, India, Tokyo, Japan, and Atlacomulco, Mexico facilities decreased cardboard wa ste  
by a total of 130 metric tons.  
Plastic scrap continues to be Baxter’s largest waste stream, generating roughly one -third of the company’s 
non-hazardous waste. Baxter’s Corporate Environmental Engineering group is working to identify opportunities 
to reduce plastic waste generation at the source through a systematic approach that emphasizes continual 
improvement and draws on Lean and Six Sigma tools.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/waste.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
* "Other" includes all other recycled non -hazardous waste streams such as ink cartridges, protein pa ste waste, Styrofoam and drums.  
 ** Regulated waste streams sent for recycling including batteries, chemicals and solvents, and electronic equipment.  
 
Of the 54,000 metric tons of non -hazardous waste generated in 2010, Baxter recycled approximately 38,000 
metric tons, or 70%. Baxter also recycled 1,080 metric tons of regulated waste in 2010, for an overall recycling 
rate of 66%. The increased rate, compared to 61% in 2009, is partly due to changes in how Baxter facilities 
report waste recycling and disposal . With the implementation of a new environmental, health and safety (EHS) 
information management system in 2010, Baxter facilities can indicate if a waste stream is incinerated  or 
incinerated with energy recovery , of which the latter is considered recyclin g. 
Recycling activities at Baxter generated approximately $5.9 million of revenue in 2010. Although some 
recycled waste streams do not generate revenue, even in those cases, recycling typically costs less than 
disposal. Recycling revenue increased by 67% c ompared to 2009, due to higher demand for recycled plastic 
and metal in 2010 associated with the ongoing global economic recovery.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/waste.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Regulated Waste Performance  
Baxter reports the category of “regulated waste” rather than “hazardous waste.” This allows th e company  
to include a broader array of materials that would otherwise be classified as non -hazardous, which helps 
harmonize Baxter’s waste reporting across countries with varying waste regulations. In addition to wastes 
typically considered hazardous in most 
countries (such as toxics and corrosives), 
the company also includes oils, 
biohazardous or infectious materials, 
batteries, fluorescent lamps, asbestos and 
other materials that may not be defined as 
hazardous waste by national legislation at 
the point  of origin. Regulated waste 
represented about 9% of the waste Baxter 
generated in 2010.  
Baxter's global operations generated 5,370 
metric tons of regulated waste in 2010, 
29% more than in 2005 in absolute terms 
and a 1% decrease indexed to revenue. 
Baxter reduced regulated waste by 15% 
on an absolute basis compared to 2009. 
This is principally due to decreased 
production volumes in Baxter’s BioScience 
business unit, which generates blood -
derived plasma protein waste and other 
associated biological wastes.  
Over the years, Baxter has reduced 
regulated waste such as solvents to the 
point that many large company facilities no 
longer generate significant quantities. 
Plasma -based operations, including plasma 
processing plants, generate blood -derived 
wastes that pr esent fewer opportunities for source reduction or reuse. However, Baxter is exploring 
opportunities for more sustainable waste management practices for plasma protein waste. These continue  
to be the most significant quantities of regulated waste generated . 
1  Non-hazardous waste is reported to the nearest 1,000 metric tons and regulated waste is reported to the nearest 10 metric tons. Due to regulatory  
  requirements, facilities track regulated waste with greater precision than non -hazardous waste.  
 
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/water -and-
wastewater.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Water and Wastewater  
 
Water is critical for good health. More than 850 million people live without clean drinking water and 2.6 billion 
do not have access to modern sanitation. Inadequate access to safe water and sanitation services, coupled 
with poor hygie ne practices, kills and sickens countless people every day, and leads to impoverishment and 
diminished opportunities for many more.1 
Water is also essential to Baxter’s business and to the patients that rely on the company’s products. Reflecting 
this, the company extended its water use goal from a 20% reduction by 2010 to a 35% reduction by 2015, both 
indexed to revenue and compared to 2005. Baxter also has committed to implement two projects by 2015 to 
help protect vulnerable watersheds and provide communi ties with enhanced access to clean water.  
Water and other environmental issues are interconnected. For example, warmer temperatures caused by 
climate change are expected to decrease fresh water availability significantly, especially in water -scarce 
areas.2 As temperatures rise, elevating sea levels may increase salt water intrusion and degradation in  
water aquifers near the ocean.  
Water consumption, energy usage and greenhouse gas emissions are interrelated within Baxter’s 
manufacturing operations as well.  The production of highly purified water requires energy to operate water 
purification equipment such as reverse osmosis and water distillation units. As water quality decreases,  
Baxter will need to use additional energy and water for these purposes.  
Wate r Usage  
Baxter closely manages how it obtains, uses, treats, re -circulates and discharges water. In 2010, Baxter 
obtained about half of its water from on -site wells and half from municipal water distribution systems.  
In 2010, Baxter's global operations use d approximately 13.4 million cubic meters3 of water, the rough 
equivalent of filling 15 Olympic -sized swimming pools every day. The company used 10% less water  
in 2010 than in 2005 in absolute terms and 31% less indexed to revenue, exceeding Baxter’s 2010   
water -reduction goal.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/water -and-
wastewater.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
 
Baxter uses water in three main ways:  
• Process -related uses include cooling towers, chillers, steam boilers, sterilizers and water purification;  
• Use of purified water in the company’s solution products; and  
 
Other uses such as i n sinks, toilets, cafeterias and landscaping irrigation.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/water -and-
wastewater.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Water Conservation  
Facilities with water -intensive operations develop site -specific water efficiency initiatives and metrics. 
Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) and Facilities Engineering perso nnel review performance to identify 
best practices for application at other locations.  
Baxter decreased water consumption in 2010 through water recovery and reuse projects at several facilities:  
  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/water -and-
wastewater.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Baxter identifies water usage reduction opportunities and  possible water conservation projects in several ways. 
Due to the strong link between energy usage and water processing, optimizing water systems remains a key 
focus for the company’s facility energy assessments. Additionally, Baxter integrates Lean manufa cturing 
principles  and tools, such as value stream mapping, with water management, to help facilities identify areas for 
additional conservation.  
Water issues vary significantly by location. Baxter used the World Business Council for Sustainable 
Developme nt (WBCSD) Global Water Tool to evaluate the availability of renewable water resources at Baxter’s 
40 largest water -consuming locations, representing approximately 92% of the company’s total water use. Ten 
of those sites are located in water -scarce areas, eight in water -stressed areas and 22 in water -sufficient areas 
(see second note on graph below).  
While the WBCSD water tool has 
helped Baxter screen operations 
located in potentially water scarce 
or stressed areas, Baxter plans to 
conduct further analysis to 
understand the full water risk at 
each location. Additionally, Baxter 
intends to expand its water risk 
evaluation beyond the availability 
of renewable water resources to 
also consider regulatory, 
geopolitical, economic and social 
factors that can impact  water 
access and use. Based on this 
information, the company will 
develop a more comprehensive 
water risk management strategy, 
and set more rigorous water 
conservation goals.  
Through the help of Water 
Advocates, Baxter has begun to 
explore partnership opp ortunities 
with local non -governmental 
organizations to implement 
projects aimed at helping to 
protect vulnerable watersheds  
or provide communities with  
 
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/water -and-
wastewater.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  enhanced access to clean water and sanitation. Progress toward the company’s 2015 goal in this  area has 
been slower than anticipated, but Baxter expects to meet its commitment.  
Wastewater  
Wastewater discharged from Baxter's production operations represents one of the company's most significant 
environmental compliance risks. In 2010, 67 of Baxter’s 70 se lf-reported environmental incidents were 
exceedances of permitted wastewater  discharge limits. During the year, 70% of the reported wastewater 
discharge exceedances were from two Baxter locations: Lessines, Belgium, reported 21 wastewater 
exceedances relat ed to temperature, and Sabiñánigo, Spain, reported 28 wastewater exceedances, primarily 
involving increased flow of treated wastewater. Both facilities have worked with local environmental authorities 
to ensure that actions taken in response are satisfacto ry. In addition, Baxter’s environmental engineering group 
will engage an external wastewater expert during 2011 to ensure implementation of proper preventive actions 
at both locations.  
It is important to note that a single event may result in numerous envi ronmental compliance incidents.  
For instance, a discharge of a large amount of hot water during the course of seven days that elevates the 
wastewater discharge temperature above the daily regulatory limit would be counted as seven environmental 
compliance  incidents. The Lessines, Belgium, and Sabiñánigo, Spain, facilities both experienced events that 
spanned multiple days and resulted in multiple exceedances.  
To address actual wastewater compliance issues and to anticipate potential ones, since 2006 Baxter ’s 
environmental engineering group has performed wastewater risk evaluations and developed recommendations 
for facilities with elevated wastewater compliance risk.  
The group selects facilities for evaluation based on:  
• Noncompliance history;  
• Potential for n oncompliance to result in environmental impact;  
• Facility wastewater treatment capacity and reliability;  
• Anticipated changes in production or the introduction of new products; and  
• Sufficiency of resources that support wastewater operations.  
 
Baxter -Operated  Wastewater Treatment Systems  
Eleven of Baxter’s manufacturing operations treat wastewater on -site and either discharge to a waterway  
or operate as zero -discharge facilities. These facilities typically do not have access to regional or municipal 
wastewate r-treatment systems. For example, Baxter’s facilities in Alathur and Waluj, India, reuse all treated 
wastewater on -site for landscaping and irrigation or, after further treatment by reverse osmosis, for cooling - 
towers. In 2010, these 11 facilities treated  4.0 million cubic meters of wastewater, equivalent to nearly 30%  
of Baxter's total water consumption.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/water -and-
wastewater.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Baxter uses the following indicators globally to evaluate wastewater quality at the nine company facilities that 
discharge directly into waterways:  
• 5-Day biochemical oxygen demand (BOD 5); 
• Chemical oxygen demand (COD); and  
• Total suspended solids (TSS).  
 
These are the most commonly used indicators of wastewater quality across Baxter operations and are 
indicative of the operational performance of wastewate r treatment systems. The company monitors and reports 
additional metrics following local requirements, but these are not collected at all sites and so are not included 
in this report.  
The combined treated effluent from the nine facilities that discharge to  a waterway contained substances that 
represent 41 metric tons of BOD 5, 106 metric tons of COD and 34 metric tons of TSS. This equals average 
concentrations of 10 mg/liter BOD 5, 27 mg/liter COD and 9 mg/liter TSS. These levels generally are regarded 
as ind icators of adequately treated wastewater and are below typical regulatory discharge limits.  
 
* Estimated total water pollutant levels for treated wastewater discharged directly into waterways. Data do not include two facilities that operate  
zero-discharg e systems in accordance with local regulatory requirements.  
 ** When actual performance data were not available, estimates were developed based on performance at similar facilities or on other measured  
  performance indicators.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -performance/water -and-
wastewater.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Wastewater and Active Pha rmaceutical Ingredients  
Baxter takes seriously the concern about active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) entering the public  
water supply. The company primarily produces solutions whose principal ingredients include water, salts  
and simple sugars. Howeve r, Baxter purchases and uses some solution therapies and products for  
 injection that include APIs.  
Baxter properly manages the APIs that it uses to help ensure they are not released into the environment  
during manufacturing. The company has developed pro prietary processes to remove, destroy or deactivate 
some compounds though not required to do so by law. All other compounds that cannot be managed this  
way or through traditional wastewater systems are destroyed by incineration or another environmentally 
responsible manner.  
Complementing these global processes, each Baxter facility determines the most effective and environmentally 
responsible method of protecting the public water supply and public health in accordance with company 
policies and local regula tions. For example, Baxter’s major research and development facility in Round Lake, 
Illinois, United States, has an ongoing program launched in 1989 to evaluate its solution products, including 
those containing APIs, for their removal in wastewater treatme nt systems. The company shares this 
information with Baxter facilities around the world.  
 
1 UNICEF, “Progress on Sanitation and Drinking Water”, 2010 Update.  
2 The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Fourth Assessment Report.  
3 One cubic meter  equals 1,000 liters or 264 gallons.  
 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -financial -statement.htm l  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
2010 Environmental Financial Statement  
 
Baxter's Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) function pioneered its Environmental Financial Statement 
(EFS) in 1994 (covering 1993 data). The EFS demonstrates the value of the company’s proactive global 
environmental management program to EHS team members, senior leadership and other stakeholders. For 
the past decade, the company has received a return of approximately three dollars for every dollar invested in 
environmental initiatives.  
Environmental income, savings and cost avoidance totaled $11.5 million for initiatives completed in 2010, or 
61% of the cost of Baxter's basic global environmental program. This amount increased from $10.8 million in 
2009.  
Factors that influen ced 2010 performance include the following:  
• The strengthening of the global economy increased demand and revenue for production byproducts sent  
off-site for recycling.  
• Increased average utility rates for energy combined with higher levels of energy consum ption during the  
year negatively impacted net energy cost savings and avoidance compared to prior years.  
• Significant investments made by Baxter in enhanced wastewater pretreatment and treatment systems in 
2008 have increased annualized depreciation expens es (for a period of seven years for U.S. capital 
improvements and 10 years for all others, beginning in 2008) as well as associated operation and 
maintenance costs.  
 
Total estimated environmental income, savings and cost avoidance realized in 2010 from env ironmental 
initiatives implemented during the prior six years, including 2010, totaled $94.1 million.  
Download a PDF copy of Baxter's 2010 Environmental Financial Statement.  
Background  
When initiating the EFS, Baxter developed specific methodologies to est imate savings and cost  
avoidance. The company uses this approach consistently each year, to enhance the reliability and 
comparability of the results.   
 
http://www.sustainabil ity.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -financial -statement.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
In compiling the EFS, Baxter uses the following terms and conventions:  
Monetary Amounts  
Stated in U.S. dollars.  
Income  
Money received in each of the reported years.  
Savings  
Reduction in actual costs between the report year and the prior year. An increase in actual costs equals 
negative savings.  
Cost Avoidance  
Costs that the company would have incurred had t he reduction activity not taken place. Conservation initiatives 
produce cost avoidance in the year commenced, and in future years in which the resource (such as energy, 
water or materials) remains eliminated from processes. To be conservative, Baxter stops  accumulating cost 
avoidance from conservation activities after seven years (including the year implemented). This reflects the 
typical duration of many conservation projects, after which additional improvements or changes may be made.  
Calculating Savings and Cost Avoidance  
In calculating savings and cost avoidance for resource reduction activities, Baxter assumes that production  
and distribution grow at the same rate as the company's cost of goods sold, and that resource use and waste 
generation increase at that same rate in the absence of reduction initiatives. Baxter determines this rate by 
calculating the average annual increase in the company's published cost of goods sold over the past six years. 
It then adjusts this number for new acquisitions and ch anges in inventory, and subtracts inflation, which is 
calculated as an average of three major, relevant U.S. producer -price indexes. The company then rounds  
the resulting growth rate down to the nearest whole number to conservatively report performance.  
In calculations related to materials use, Baxter uses the current average cost of materials and the compounded 
growth in business activity.   
 
http://www.sustainabil ity.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -financial -statement.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Undetermined (and Unreported) Environmental -related Costs  
and Savings  
The following undetermined costs are not i ncluded in the EFS:  
• Environmentally driven materials research and other research and development. These costs are typically 
offset by increased sales and other non -environmental benefits not reported in the EFS;  
• Capital costs of modifying processes and imp lementing certain resource conservation projects, other than 
adding pollution controls. These are typically offset by increased production rates, efficiencies and other  
non-environmental benefits not reported in the EFS;   
 
http://www.sustainabil ity.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -financial -statement.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
• Cost of substitutes for ozone -depleting substances and other hazardous materials (estimated to be relatively 
minor); and  
• Time spent by non -environmental employees on environmental activities. Environmental training and 
responsibilities are part of every employee's job.  
 
Baxter's global e nvironmental program also produces undetermined savings and other benefits that are not 
easily measured and are not included in the EFS. Examples include the following:  
• Decreased liability exposure related to the operation of regulated waste management sit es by maintaining a 
program (launched in the 1980s) requiring a detailed audit of any such site before use by Baxter and periodic 
re-audits after the initial assessment;  
• Reduced risk due to other risk -management programs, including performance of environme ntal due diligence 
on all business acquisitions and divestitures, use of a common set of EHS policies, throughout Baxter 
operations, auditing those operations regularly against these policies and using a tracking system to resolve 
any audit findings;  
• Decre ased regulatory burden by reducing waste generation at Baxter below certain thresholds (decreases 
training, recordkeeping, reporting, and administrative costs);  
• Avoided costs for environmental problems that did not occur due to Baxter's proactive efforts;  
• Enhanced ability for employees to focus on higher value tasks due to the reduction of waste, possible spills 
and other potential environmental problems;  
• Increased good will and brand value, improved company reputation and employee morale, and possible 
additional sales; and  
• Attraction and retention of key personnel in part due to Baxter’s strong environmental program.  
  
 
http://www.sustainabil ity.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -financial -statement.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  
  
 
http://www.sustainabil ity.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/2010 -environmental -financial -statement.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxt er.com/environment -health -safety/health -and-safety/index.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Health and Safety  
 
Complementing its mission to save and sustain the lives of patients worldwide, Baxter works to ensure the 
health, safety and well -being of its employees. At Baxter, all employees are accountable for safety.  
The company encourages employee health and wellness in and out of the workplace, such as by providing 
free influenza immunizations, subsidizing access to exerc ise facilities near or on the premises of some Baxter 
locations, and promoting balanced nutrition. Baxter also is working toward a smoke -free environment at all of 
its campuses. See Employee and Family Health and Wellness for more  detail.  
Baxter conducts b usiness worldwide, with more than half of its employees working outside the United States. 
The company’s operations consist of the following work environments:  
• Manufacturing;  
• Administrative and sales offices;  
• Plasma -donor centers;  
• Mobile sales force;  
• Resea rch and development;  
• Renal -therapy centers; and  
• Warehousing and distribution.  
 
Recent trends in Baxter’s operations include increasing automation, facility expansions (especially in Asia 
Pacific), and a growing remote workforce. These present distinct work place hazards and opportunities for 
improvement.  
Baxter tracks four main safety indicators: recordable case rate, cases with days lost rate, days lost rate  
and restricted days rate (see summary performance table). Cases  with days lost rate and days lost r ate  
are integrated into senior managers' annual performance management objectives and performance  
in these metrics impacts their compensation. Baxter also tracks serious incidents and evaluates each one  
that takes place, to prevent recurrence. The envir onment, health and safety (EHS) organization reports 
employee safety performance to Baxter’s senior leadership every other month and to Baxter’s manufacturing 
and supply chain management monthly. The EHS organization also communicates this performance to 
Baxter’s Board of Directors.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/health -and-safety/index.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Health and Safety Program Management  
Baxter's occupational health, safety and industrial hygiene functions sponsor teams composed of corporate, 
regional, site and business -unit health and safety professionals from around the w orld. These teams set 
priorities in their respective areas, and establish, maintain and continually improve global programs and 
initiatives. Each year the functional teams undertake a strategic planning process, and define short -term 
targets and long -term goals and the tactical plans and resources required to achieve those. They also  
provide input to Baxter’s EHS Leadership Team, made up of EHS directors and other leaders who establish 
the company’s EHS strategy, policy (global EHS requirements) and EHS go als. This ensures alignment and 
commitment throughout the global EHS organization.  
Baxter applies the Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001 to assess and manage 
hazards that pose risk to employees. An external auditing and certific ation body may recommend a facility for 
certification to OHSAS 18001 following a successful corporate EHS audit. As of year -end 2010, 49 Baxter 
locations (see map) were certified to OHSAS 18001.1 See EHS Management Systems for more detail.  
In addressing wo rkplace safety, Baxter uses a risk -based approach that identifies, evaluates and prioritizes 
hazards, and then acts to correct and prevent them. Based on trend analysis of safety data , in 2010 the 
company continued to focus on slips, trips and falls, as we ll as ergonomics, as major sources of injury. 
Working with the Mountain Home, Arkansas, United States, manufacturing site, Baxter’s corporate health  
and safety team created analytical tools and resources to help sites reduce slips, trips and falls. As a p art  
of the initiative, the team built a website that provides the following:  
• Tools to identify the sources and root causes of slips, trips and falls;  
• Self assessment instruments;  
• Resources and information about vendors that provide solutions to common pro blems in this area; and;  
• The ability for users to search for and upload best practices on this topic developed by other facilities.  
 
For ergonomics, the corporate health and safety team created ergonomic engineering guidelines to promote 
workstations that best align with workers’ physical capabilities. These guidelines were launched in the first 
quarter of 2011. In addition, an independent consulting firm completed an assessment of Baxter’s ergonomics 
policy and programs, including its staffing, to identify  opportunities for improvement. The Safety Functional 
Team is using this input to enhance Baxter’s approach in this area.  
1  Certification to OHSAS 18001 is not accredited to the same level as ISO 14001.  
 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/health -and-safety/2010 -performance.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
2010 Health and Safety Performance  
 
In 2010, B axter’s recordable case rate improved 7% from 2009, its cases with days lost rate worsened 13%, its 
days lost rate worsened 10% and its restricted days rate worsened 15%. This decline in performance occurred 
after four years of significant progress in cont rolling injuries and illnesses.  
The following table summarizes Baxter’s health and safety performance from 2005 -2010, and includes the 
company’s 2010 goals in  this area. Click on underlined items to view performance graphs with regional and 
other breakdown s and global rates.  
Indicator  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  2010  
Goal  
Recordable Case  
Rate1, 2 1.52 1.35 1.41 1.29 1.07 1.00 1.25 
 
Cases with Days Lost Rate1, 2 0.30 0.31 0.25 0.19 0.15 0.17 0.16 
 
Days Lost Rate1, 2 7.08 6.94 5.45 4.23 4.16 4.56 3.98 
 
Restricted Days Rate1, 2 22.80  16.80  15.72  19.46  12.68  14.59  n/a 
 
Days Away (Lost), Restricted or 
Transferred Rate (DART)1, 2 29.88  23.74  21.17  23.69  16.84  19.15  n/a 
Employee/Contractor Serious 
Incidents (total number)3 9/0 4/0 12/1 8/2 12/2 5/0 n/a 
Employee/Contractor Fatalities  
(total number)  2/2 0/1 0/0 0/1 0/05 0/0 n/a 
Worldwide Workers' Compensation 
Cost Estimate (in millions)4 $20.6  $15.2  $14.9  $14.4  $15.9  $17.8  n/a 
  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/health -and-safety/2010 -performance.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  
  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/health -and-safety/2010 -performance.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
As described in the table, Baxter’s performance worsened in 2010 comp ared to 2009 on several key metrics 
and the company failed to achieve two of the three goals it reset in 2008 following several years of strong 
performance. In 2010, versus the prior year:  
• The recordable case rate improved by 7% globally, with gains in eac h region except Europe, Middle East and 
Africa (EMEA). It worsened by 34% in EMEA, predominantly due to increased noise exposure, slips/trips and 
falls, caught in or between incidents, and ergonomic factors.  
• The cases with days lost rate worsened by 13% wo rldwide, including an increase of 129% in Latin America 
due to elevated incidents of slips/trips and falls and non -ergonomics -related injuries. In EMEA the rate 
worsened by 25% due to increased slips/trips and falls, caught in or between incidents, and erg onomic -
related injuries. In North America the rate worsened by 5%, and in Asia Pacific the rate improved by 33%.  
• The days lost rate worsened by 10% globally. It increased in EMEA by 55%, partly due to a number of 
unusual cases with extended lost time (for example, three complicated fractures that required extended 
healing time) and a number of carpal tunnel cases. The rate worsened in Latin America by 38%, due partly to 
several falls and one machine guarding incident resulting in a hand injury that could no t be accommodated 
with modified work. The Latin America team has analyzed these incidents, identified employee behavior as a 
key contributing factor, and is mounting a campaign to address this in 2011. The days lost rate also worsened 
by 12% in Asia Pacifi c, where local regulations prohibiting early return to work led to a high number of days 
lost. Another contributing factor globally was incidents that occurred in locations without case management 
programs in place to return employees to work more efficien tly and thereby reduce the number of days lost. 
The rate was flat in North America.  
• The restricted days rate worsened by 15% globally, including increases in all regions except North America, 
where it improved by 2%. An increase in restricted work days is not necessarily a negative indicator. It may 
show that employees are being brought back into the workforce proactively, while they may need minor 
modification of their duties prior to full recovery.  
On a global basis, ergonomic injuries continue to be the primary driver of recordable cases, days lost and 
restricted days (see graph below). See Health and Safety Programs and Initiatives for details on the ergonomic 
strategies Baxter employs to address this ongoing challenge.  
Although safety performance worsen ed in 2010, Baxter achieved and surpassed each of the three original 
2010 injury rate goals it set in 2005. Overall performance has improved significantly during that five -year 
period, including:  
• 34% reduction in recordable case rate  
• 45% decrease in cases with days lost rate  
• 36% reduction in days lost rate  
In a comparison of 19 healthcare companies reporting global safety data to Mercer (formerly ORC Worldwide), 
Baxter’s performance ranked third in cases with days lost rate in 2009, the most recent year ind ustry 
benchmarking data were available.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/health -and-safety/2010 -performance.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
View a comparison of Baxter’s performance to average occupational injury and illness rates for several related 
U.S.-based industries.  
Analysis of Injuries and Illnesses  
Baxter’s safety function regularly evaluates t he main sources of work -related injuries at the company to identify 
trends and address opportunities for improvement. The following chart shows the sources of injuries at Baxter 
in 2010. The two major sources of recordable injuries and serious incidents fo r the past six years (when the 
company began analyzing these data) have been ergonomic issues and slips, trips and falls. To address this, 
Baxter has initiated focused programs in  each of these areas.  
  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/health -and-safety/2010 -performance.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Serious Incidents  
Serious workplace incidents are w ork-related incidents that result in an employee or contractor being 
hospitalized overnight, sustaining an amputation or dying.  
Baxter’s five serious incidents in 2010 involving six employees is the lowest number of serious injuries since 
2006. When a seri ous incident occurs, facility management conducts an evaluation and follows formal 
processes and reporting mechanisms to share knowledge throughout the company to prevent reoccurrence. 
Baxter’s EHS policy also requires regional and business EHS groups to p repare and distribute a report about 
the incident. In addition, safety personnel discuss each incident with the vice president of EHS and the 
corporate safety director to evaluate root causes and preventive measures.  
Early in 2011, an incident at Baxter’s Los Angeles, California, United States, facility resulted in the death of one 
employee and the hospitalization of a contractor and another employee. More information about this incident 
will be included in the Baxter 2011 Sustainability Report.  
Great Perfo rmers  
See a list of Baxter's Great Health and Safety Performers in 2010.  These facilities completed at least 10 years 
of work and/or reached 1 million hours or more (the equivalent of 500 people working for a year) without an 
occupational injury or illness  resulting in days lost.  
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/health -and-safety/programs -and-initiatives.html  
© Copyright 2 011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Programs and Initiatives  
 
Baxter's occupational health and safety teams are working to continually improve the company's health and 
safety performance with the following programs and initiatives:  
Addressing Sources of Injury a nd Risk  
 
Employee and Family Health and Wellness  
Case Management  
Addressing Sources of Injury and Risk  
Hazard identification (HI) and risk assessment (RA) enables Baxter to understand and tailor programs to 
address the main causes of employee injuries and  illnesses. For example, this type of analysis in 2010 led  
to the identification of Baxter’s Renal Home Patient Delivery drivers as an area of focus. Delivering renal 
dialysis supplies into patients’ homes poses significant physical demands and challenges . Baxter’s safety  
team formed a task force to address this group’s needs, which resulted in benchmarking with multiple 
companies that perform similar work and enhancing post -accident analysis tools and data analysis  
strategies. Baxter’s environmental, he alth and safety (EHS) team also focused on the company’s  
Contractor Safety Policy and program to redefine higher risk activities that warrant increased planning  
and risk mitigation.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environme nt-health -safety/health -and-safety/programs -and-initiatives.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Ergonomics  
Thirty -one percent of Baxter’s recordable cases were relate d to ergonomic risk factors in 2010, along with 36% 
of cases with days lost, 43% of days lost and 49% of restricted days. Baxter has a long -term commitment to 
reduce ergonomic risk, and has committed resources to support facilities in related efforts. One of the most 
effective means of reducing ergonomic risk is to build optimal ergonomic design into workstations and work 
tasks. In recent years, increasing automation at Baxter facilities has had a positive impact. Ergonomic injuries 
related to repetitive mo tion have decreased, while injuries related to manual handling tasks and work stations 
increased and remain a challenge. In 2010 Baxter created a guidance tool available in three languages, for 
engineers to use when developing or modifying workstations. Th e "Ergonomics for Engineers" guideline was 
launched in the first part of 2011 via webinar and streaming video.  
Baxter also enhanced focused training for engineers in 2010 on ergonomics, anthropometrics1, biomechanics2 
and design principles that reduce ergo nomic risk. The company piloted this training at its Castlebar, Ireland, 
facility.  
Baxter continues to use a 10-Point Ergonomics Program Self -Assessment designed  to help facilities identify 
program strengths and gaps. This tool allows Baxter to better unde rstand the particular characteristics of 
specific sites and direct resources to facilities with the greatest need. In addition, in 2010 Baxter continued to 
support specific projects and engineering training services to targeted facilities.  
The Baxter EHS i ntranet features ergonomics pages that offer a wide range of resources, tools and training 
materials. The company also provides services that support ergonomic workstation design principles to 
facilities and employees upon request.  
Fall Prevention  
Slips, t rips and falls were the source of 20% of recordable injuries, 31% of cases with days lost, 28% of days 
lost and 20% of restricted days in 2010. This represented a significant increase in frequency compared to 2009 
for each category except restricted days. Slips, trips and falls remain one of the industry’s most prevalent 
causes of injuries and will remain a focus area at Baxter.  
In 2010, Baxter’s corporate health and safety team worked with the company’s Mountain Home, Arkansas, 
United States, manufacturing  facility to better understand the site’s needs in addressing this issue. The team 
designed an analytical mapping tool that allows facilities to plot the location of all slips, trips and falls to 
determine high -risk areas or functions and analyze common ca uses. The team also developed self -
assessment tools and inspection checklists. Baxter then incorporated these resources, along with a slips, trips 
and falls -prevention webinar and other training and support tools, into an internal website focused on fall 
prevention.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environme nt-health -safety/health -and-safety/programs -and-initiatives.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Near -Miss Reporting Programs  
Employee engagement is key to creating and maintaining a safe work environment. One effective means to 
involve employees in safety is to encourage them to identify, report and eliminate sources of injury before the y 
cause an incident. This includes reporting near misses, which are unplanned events, conditions or actions that 
did not result in injury, illness or damage – but could have. Baxter defined the elements needed for an effective 
near-miss program, and then a ssessed whether these elements were in place at facilities. Ninety -one percent 
of facilities analyzed were determined to have a near miss program in place using these defined criteria 
(exceeding the goal of 75%).  
Driver Safety  
Mobile devices represent a si gnificant distraction risk while driving. To address this, during 2010 Baxter 
approved a global policy to improve employee safety while operating vehicles on company business that:  
• Expands the current policy to cover all mobile devices, not just cellular p hones;  
• Requires that mobile devices, if used while driving, are used "hands -free"; and  
• Prohibits texting and using computer programs while driving.  
 
The company will implement this policy, along with various training tools, in 2011.  
Other Major Sources  
Following ergonomic injuries and slips, trips and falls, needlesticks represent another major source of injury.  
Needlestick injuries, occurring most frequently in Baxter’s BioLife and Renal Therapy sites, accounted for 13% 
of the company’s recordable cases in  2010, down from 18% in 2009. This decrease reflects Baxter’s recent 
heightened focus on this area. During 2010, the company evaluated the equipment employees use for plasma 
collection as well as phlebotomy techniques, and implemented improvements to decre ase risk.  
(Top)  
Employee and Family Health and Wellness  
A healthy, productive workforce is vital to achieving Baxter’s goals and those of its employees. Through 
BeWell@Baxter, the company’s global employee health and wellness effort, Baxter strives to crea te a culture 
that promotes work -related and personal health, raises awareness about these issues and supports individual 
accountability and engagement.  
BeWell@Baxter provides employees and their adult family members with access to a Personal Wellness 
Profile, offered in 12 languages. Thirty -two percent of employees worldwide have completed this confidential 
personal online health analysis as of the end of 2010.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environme nt-health -safety/health -and-safety/programs -and-initiatives.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
In 2010, the company launched two major health promotion campaigns based on risk factors identi fied through 
health analysis. The BeWell@Baxter Exercise Challenge was held in May and encouraged employees to make 
a commitment to regular exercise. Twenty -four percent of all employees from 80 facilities globally (about 
11,700) participated. See Case Stu dy: BeWell@Baxter: Global Exercise Challenge and Healthy Eating Month.  
In November, the company focused on a global nutrition campaign aimed at arming employees with healthy 
eating strategies that could be used year -round. Thirty -eight percent of all emplo yees from 90 facilities 
worldwide (about 18,600) participated in “Healthy Eating Month” events, many of which included family 
participation.  
In 2010, Baxter continued to encourage employees to protect themselves against seasonal influenza through 
vaccinati on. The company offered seasonal flu vaccination at no charge to 95% of its employees worldwide, 
and 37% of employees received vaccination during the 2010/2011 flu season. This is slightly lower than the 
previous year, when 40% of employees were vaccinated . This is thought to be related to the heightened 
awareness in 2009/2010 due to swine flu, which resulted in increased vaccinations.  
In 2008, Baxter launched its vision for global smoke -free campuses. By the end of 2010, 86% of company 
campuses were smoke -free, with many more facilities committed to making the transition in 2011.  
(Top)  
Case Management  
Occupational health case management seeks to obtain care for injured employees from qualified providers to 
improve health outcomes and shorten disability time . Effective case management depends on early 
intervention, appropriate treatment and engagement with the injured employee. Focusing on prevention and 
case management benefits employees and helps Baxter manage the medical treatment costs of work -related 
injuries and improve the company’s days lost and restricted days performance. Proactive case management 
also allows employees to return to the workplace sooner, enhancing site productivity and employee morale.  
Baxter’s occupational health team uses 10 criteri a to measure  case -management program implementation at 
large sites (100 or more employees). Facilities must implement at least eight of these criteria to qualify as 
having a program. In 2008, the team also established five criteria to measure program imple mentation for small 
sites (25 to 99 employees). Those sites must implement all five criteria to qualify as having a program. By the 
end of 2010, 95% of large sites and 89% of small sites had implemented case management programs for a 
total of 91% of sites with 25 or more employees, exceeding the company’s goal of 85%. The occupational 
health team has held quarterly webinars on case management since 2005. These meetings feature medical 
topics of global interest as well as issues aimed at strengthening U.S. w orkers’ compensation claims handling.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environme nt-health -safety/health -and-safety/programs -and-initiatives.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
As a result of Baxter’s multidisciplinary approach to work -injury management, the average paid cost per claim 
has declined by 13% since 2006, compared to an average increase in the industry of 30%.3 Incident avoidanc e 
and case management have saved Baxter an estimated $8.9 million since the company launched its case 
management program in 2004. During that period, Baxter’s overall costs in this area have declined while 
average costs in the industry have increased.4 
View detail regarding Baxter's Risk -Based Approach to Occupational Health Case Management.  
1  Anthropometrics is the study of the dimensions and abilities of the human body.  
2 Biomechanics is the science concerned with the internal and external forces acting on the human body and the effects produced by these forces.  
3 "Workers Compensation Strategic Outcomes Report," February 23, 2011, prepared by Broadspire for Baxter.  
4 Ibid. 
 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2010 -report/virtual -conference.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Case Study: Baxter's Energy Managers 
Convene Virtual Conference  
Since 2000, Baxter has held a biennial global energy 
conference for the company's facility energy managers  
 to conduct training, development and share best practices 
across the organization. In 2010, Baxter held its energy 
conference in virtual format, and found that this new approach 
had several significant benefits for the company and the 
environment.  
Baxter conducted the four -day event using Baxter Connect Meeting, which utilizes a presentation -sharing 
platform enhanced with video. Each day included three hours of p resentations by employees from throughout 
the company and vendors, with more than 15 sessions in total. The agenda, which focused on new 
technologies, training and best demonstrated practices, covered a wide range of practical topics such as 
improving boil er efficiency, use of light emitting diode (LED) lighting, reuse of waste heat, and improving 
efficiency in high -purity water production systems.  
Benefits to this new approach included the following:  
• Expanded access: Exposure to the event increased with em ployees from more than 40 sites participating 
remotely, including technicians and mechanics who would normally not be allowed to travel.  
• Time savings: Employees avoided more than 1,000 hours of travel time collectively.  
• Cost savings: Baxter saved about $25 0,000 by holding the event virtually, primarily due to avoided airfare  
and accommodations.  
• Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions: The company avoided an estimated 260 metric tons of GHG emissions, 
primarily due to avoided employee air travel.  
 
Although participa nts identified areas for improvement – such as the need to ensure consistent familiarity  
with audio and video technologies prior to the conference and the importance of greater flexibility for 
communications among attendees – overall participant feedback on the conference was positive.  
"The virtual conference was a new alternative approach that we tested as a means to continue providing the 
energy managers with technology updates and best practices," said Larry Funke, director, energy and critical 
systems with Baxter's Facilities Engineering Services group. "We were able to reach a wider facility -based 
audience than what normally would have been possible with a face -to-face conference."  
 
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2010 -report/aibonito -facility.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Case Study: Baxter's Aibonito, Puerto Rico, 
Facility Demonstrates E nvironmental  
Best Practices  
Baxter's facility in Aibonito, Puerto Rico, which manufactures disposable medical products, has long been a 
strong environmental, health and safety (EHS) performer. In fact, Baxter recognized Aibonito with its 2008 -
2009 EHS Ex cellence Award, recognizing the "Best of the Best EHS Program in Baxter." The site's results are 
due to several factors, including hiring and assigning dedicated management and personnel to advance 
sustainability issues at the 
site, making capital 
investme nts to enhance 
resource efficiency, 
experimenting with 
innovative technologies, and 
exploring and learning from 
strong practices at other 
companies.  
The site's efforts across 
multiple areas help Baxter 
make progress toward its 
2010 and 2015 EHS goals. 
Desp ite significant production 
increases in recent years, the 
site has achieved absolute 
reductions in areas ranging 
from energy use and 
greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions to water 
consumption, waste 
generation and waste 
disposal (see graphic).  
 
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quic k-links/case -studies/2010 -report/aibonito -facility.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Energy Usage and GHG Emissions  
The Aibonito site's main uses of energy are to power process machinery, run heating, ventilation, and air 
conditioning (HVAC) equipment, operate chillers and produce compressed air. The facility pursues a wide 
range of projects to decrease en ergy use. Recent examples include:  
• Replacing 12 vacuum pumps used for the operation of six manufacturing machines with a single central 
vacuum system (a process started in 2010) has decreased required power by 50%, while also eliminating 
the need for 168 e mployees to be included in the hearing conservation program.  
• Reconfiguring existing air compression systems in 2010 reduced the pressure differential between the 
equipment and the storage tanks, saving 187,000 kWh annually.  
• Consolidating four cooling tower s into two decreased annual energy consumption by 130,000 kWh since 
2009.  
 
The site also has pursued renewable energy projects to diversify its energy mix and decrease GHG emissions, 
including installing a 7.8 kW photovoltaic system and a solar heater that  provides hot water to the cafeteria.  
Between 2005 and 2010, the facility reduced absolute energy use by 30% and decreased GHG  
emissions by 25%.  
Water Use  
The biggest factors impacting  water use at the facility are production 
and utilities, including cooling towers and a prep room (where 
employees wash parts). The site saved water in 2010 through several 
initiatives:  
• Reusing water from the prep room provides more than 2,300 cubic 
meters  of input water for the cooling tower annually, in addition to 
550 cubic meters of condensate water recaptured each year from 
the HVAC equipment. Overall, the tower meets about 22% of its 
requirements with recycled water.  
• Using large aboveground storage ta nks, the site captured more than 
3,500 cubic meters of rainwater last year for beneficial uses, 
including cooling tower make -up and onsite irrigation needs.  
 
Since 2005, the facility has decreased its absolute water use by nearly 2.9 million liters annuall y. 
 
The site uses these tanks to store rainwater for 
various purposes.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quic k-links/case -studies/2010 -report/aibonito -facility.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Waste  
The Aibonito site has a goal to increase its recycling rate to 90%  
by 2011, from 57% in 2003. This benefits Baxte r financially through 
recycling proceeds, and demonstrates the facility's commitment to 
strong citizenship on an island with limited landfill capacity.  
Since 2008, the site has shifted from using cardboard and wood 
pallets to reusable plastic containers an d pallets to transport products 
within the facility as well as to Jayuya, another Baxter site on the 
island. An investment of $200,000 in 2008 has already yielded 
savings of $450,000. Due to these efforts, between 2008 and 2010 
annual use of cardboard rela ted to these activities decreased by 66% 
(about 137 metric tons) and wood pallet use was reduced by 305 
metric tons, even though production at the site rose by 7%.  
Since 2008, through these initiatives and others, the site has reduced non -hazardous waste s ent to landfill by 
more than 150 metric tons.  
Accompanying these improvements in environmental performance, the site's recordable cases and recordable 
incident rate have both dropped substantially during the last decade as well, with no cases reported duri ng the 
last two years. Baxter collects and shares information about leading EHS practices at Aibonito and other sites, 
to enhance performance companywide.  
 
Reusable plastic containers and pallets used for 
product transport within the facility and between 
Baxter sites on the island.   
Product 
Respons ibility   
 
http://sustainability -baxter.intouch -dev.com/product -responsibility/index.html  
© Copy right 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Product Responsibility  
 
Baxter works to address environmental and social issues across the product life cycle. These range  
from sustainable design and bioethics during research and development, to efficient use of energy and 
materials during manufacturing and transport, to appropriate product advertising and promotion, and  
finally, responsible repair, refurbishment and recycling at product end -of-life. 
Quality and safety are imperatives across the product life c ycle. Baxter has programs to ensure high  
standards in both of these areas, combined with a history of innovative practices.  
The following graphic illustrates sustainability issues and Baxter's approach at each stage of the  
product life cycle.  
 Senior Laboratory Specialist Isabelle Leglise of Baxter's research and development facility in Baxter Alliance Park, Belgium, 
examines the seals on Baxter's triple -chamber container, used to provide intravenous nutrition to pa tients who cannot receive 
adequate nutrition through other means.   
 
http://sustainability -baxter.intouch -dev.com/product -responsibility/index.html  
© Copy right 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Sustainab ility Issues Across the Product Life Cycle  
  
 
http://sustainability -baxter.intouch -dev.com/product -responsibility/index.html  
© Copy right 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  
 
  
http://www.sustainability .baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -operations -products/product -stewardship.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
 
 
Baxter is dedicated to creating products that save and sustain people's lives worldwide. The company  
is committed to doing so in a way that minimizes environmental impacts. This requires a holistic vie w,  
from the early stages of design and materials selection through product manufacture, transport and  
ultimately, end -of-life. 
 
 
Baxter's sustainable design program begins with Product Sustainability Review (PSR), an assessment  
applied during the earl y stages of product development to all medical devices, ranging from intravenous  
(IV) solution containers to dialysis machines. Baxter uses results to confirm product feasibility, help establish 
product requirements and minimize potential product health a nd environmental impacts. Baxter also completes 
life cycle assessments (LCA) of certain products to further evaluate product design. The PSR and LCA 
processes have contributed to the following accomplishments:  
• In 2009, FLEXBUMIN [Albumin (Human)], became t he world's first and only medical product to receive  
Carbon Reduction certification from the Carbon Trust.  
• In 2010, Baxter launched the new XENIUM+ synthetic dialyzer, which is 13 -16% lighter than the company's 
previously developed dialyzers, which reduce s fuel consumption in shipping and decreases biohazard  
waste removal.  
• In 2010, an LCA of the aluminum packaging (compared to traditional glass containers) for two anesthetic 
gasses, SUPRANE (desflurane, USP) and Sevoflurane, identified ways to further imp rove the environmental 
footprint of the aluminum containers.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -operations -products/product -stewardship.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Baxter continues to make progress in defining the material chemical content of substances and parts that the 
company purchases for use in its products. This will help Baxter to understand if ke y chemicals of concern are 
present and to meet global regulations.  
To meet the preferences of some customers and requirements of regulators in a few specific clinical 
applications, Baxter has and will continue to invest in new platforms and systems that me et these needs.  
The company is working closely with suppliers and external stakeholders to develop a variety of materials  
that meet the unique design, regulatory, clinical and commercial requirements of individual product lines  
and markets.  
In 2011, the  company plans to expand use of PSR in its BioScience business. Baxter also intends to update 
the PSR process to increase focus on chemicals of concern and more comprehensively address customer 
interests and emerging regulations in this area.  
To extend the  useful life of some of its electronic medical products, Baxter offers repair and refurbishment 
services in Europe and the United States. The company assessed the feasibility of an electronic product 
recycling program in North America in 2009, but determin ed that the estimated environmental benefits  
would not merit the required financial investment.  
 
Baxter supports the conscientious use of animals in research only when no other valid scientific alternative 
exists to demonstrate the safety and effectivene ss of its life saving and sustaining products.  
Baxter's Global Animal Welfare Committee (GAWC) is comprised of internal veterinary professionals and 
animal scientists whose goals are to enhance current programs and to identify and develop new opportunities  
to optimize animal welfare. The committee is sponsored by the company's Chief Scientific Officer Norbert G. 
Riedel, PhD and oversees standards of animal welfare across Baxter's global operations and contract  
research organizations including academic inst itutions.  
Among Baxter's accomplishments in this area in 2010, the company expanded the use of cell culture  
for vaccine manufacture, replaced animal use in certain general safety testing where local regulations  
allow, implemented cell -based tests for spe cific antibody -based products, consolidated testing plans for 
biotherapeutics manufacture (thereby reducing animal testing), and applied state -of-the-art sampling and 
imaging techniques which reduce the need for invasive testing and decrease animal stress.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -operations -products/product -stewardship.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Baxter's animal research facilities are fully accredited by the Association for the Assessment and  
Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International (AAALAC), which evaluates organizations that use 
animals in research, teaching or testing. In the U nited States, the company's facilities are registered and 
inspected regularly by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and are in compliance with Public Health 
Service Policy as governed by the Office of Laboratory Animal Welfare of the U.S. Department  of Health  
and Human Services. Outside the United States, Baxter's animal facilities and programs are regularly 
inspected by relevant government agencies and comply with all applicable laws and regulations.  
  
 http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/quality.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Quality  
 
Each day, Baxter products make the difference between life and death for millions of patients worldwide. 
Therefore, uncompromising dedication to quality is a guiding principle in the company's culture and among  
its shared values. Baxter's reputation, and indeed, the company's sustainabilit y, depend on the quality of its 
products and services. Baxter's global quality management system (called "1QSys" for "one quality system") 
provides a consistent approach to managing quality across all aspects of the product life cycle, including 
product de sign, development, manufacturing, sterilization, labeling, packaging, distribution and promotion.  
As a diversified healthcare company that sells drugs, medical devices and biologics in more than  
100 countries, Baxter operates in a complex regulatory envir onment. A Baxter -wide quality system helps  
to address the complexities of managing across interconnected businesses, regions and manufacturing 
operations, enhancing the company's ability to meet quality standards and adapt to changes in the  
regulatory en vironment.  
Baxter manages the continuous improvement of its global quality management system through a range of 
data-driven methodologies. Simplifying processes increases efficiency and prevents potential quality issues.  
The company regularly evaluates its  quality systems and conducts reviews to identify and correct issues  
that may affect product and service quality. Baxter also assesses its suppliers of raw materials, components 
and finished goods. After products are launched, the company executes post -market surveillance to monitor 
the safety, efficacy and quality of products while in use. See Safety for more information . 
 
 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/safety.html  
© Copyright 2011 B axter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Safety  
Patient safety is at the core of everything Baxter does. The company was founded in 1931 on its ability to 
produce safe in travenous (IV) solutions for hospitals at a time when most hospitals were not equipped to 
prepare their own IV solutions. Those that tried often produced solutions that were inconsistent in quality  
and caused adverse reactions in patients. Baxter solved t his problem by mass -producing IV solutions in  
glass -vacuum containers under carefully controlled conditions and shipping them to hospitals ready for use.  
Today, Baxter focuses on safety across the product life cycle, from product development and product 
enhancements, to pharmacovigilance and post -market research. The company also collaborates with hospitals 
to redesign processes to enhance patient safety, and partners with customers and third -party groups to 
develop patient and clinician educational materi als and raise safety standards worldwide. This section  
includes examples of these efforts as well as other ways the company enhances patient safety worldwide.  
• Reducing Bloodstream Infections  
• Decreasing Medication Errors  
• Improving the Safety of Hemophilia Therapy  
• Enhancing the Safety of Home Dialysis  
• Ensuring Product Integrity  
• Complying with Government Regulations  
• Addressing Product Safety Issues  
 
Reducing Bloodstream Infections  
In 1971, Baxter introduced the firs t flexible, plastic IV bag. As the first "closed system" IV container, the bag 
does not require venting during administration. This keeps the solution from coming in contact with unfiltered 
outside air, where contaminants could enter the solution and infec t the patient.  
Despite evidence that use of closed systems can reduce bloodstream infections, many hospitals in developing 
countries continue to use "open" systems due to a lower acquisition cost. The lower cost of these products, 
however, can be outweighe d by the expense of complications associated with bloodstream infections.  
A study published in the January 2011 edition of the Journal of Infection Control and Hospital Epidemiology  
concluded that switching from open to closed -system infusion containers si gnificantly decreased central  
line-associated bloodstream infections (CLABSI) and all -cause mortality in intensive care patients. The 
analysis of four previous studies conducted in Argentina, Brazil, Italy and Mexico revealed that using closed 
system infu sion containers reduced CLABSI by 67% and all -cause mortality by 23% when compared to  
open systems.1  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/safety.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Baxter works with governments and healthcare providers to help conduct studies, set standards and implement 
conversion to closed IV systems in numerous markets to improve public health. For example, Baxter worked 
with the government of Brazil, which now requires all of the country's nearly 8,000 hospitals to use closed IV 
systems. In Colombia, where the government now recommends the use of closed systems,  approximately  
75 percent of hospitals have converted. In 2010, Baxter worked with four Ministry of Health -affiliated hospitals 
in Mexico to implement closed systems.  
Patients also can acquire bloodstream infections when medication is administered through  an IV catheter. 
Some can be deadly, including treatment -resistant bacteria such as methicillin -resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus  (MRSA), which causes nearly 20,000 deaths a year in the United States alone, according to the  
U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). In 2008, Baxter launched the V -LINK device, the first 
needle -less IV connector with an antimicrobial coating. In vitro  testing has shown that the device kills at least 
99.99% of six common pathogens known to cause catheter -related blo odstream infections, including MRSA.  
In the United Kingdom, a study at Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Birmingham – part of a broader initiative by the 
National Health Service to assess the effectiveness of a range of infection -control technologies – compared  
the V -LINK device to a non -antimicrobial device in more than 200 patients ( see summary document). While  no 
episodes of catheter -related bloodstream infection were observed in any patients during the study period, the 
V-LINK device had significantly less i nternal microbial contamination, which, the study concluded, “may lead  
to a reduced risk of such infection.” A similar study is being conducted at Emory University Hospitals in Atlanta, 
Georgia, United States.  
Decreasing Medication Errors  
The Institute of  Medicine in the United States estimates that medication errors injure 1.5 million individuals 
each year, and that 7,000 people die annually as a result.2 Other research shows even greater mortality 
statistics in other countries.  
Baxter helps decrease medi cation errors in several ways. The company's premixed IV drugs are ready to use 
so hospital pharmacists do not have to prepare these critical drugs themselves. Baxter was the first company 
to work with other pharmaceutical firms to premix their drugs in IV  solution, and is the only manufacturer of 
frozen premixed drugs for compounds that are not stable at room temperature.  
For IV drugs that must be administered in a very specific dose or have other special requirements, Baxter 
operates pharmacy compounding centers in some countries. Hospital pharmacies transmit prescriptions 
electronically to the Baxter compounding center, where pharmacists and technicians prepare patient -specific 
premixed drugs under sterile conditions and deliver them to the hospital ready  for administration.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/safety.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Baxter continues to improve product packaging and labeling to reduce the potential for medication errors.  
The company was the first to develop a readable bar code for clear, flexible IV bags, which present challenges 
for conventional  bar-code technology. Baxter also has created distinctive labeling, particularly for medications 
most likely to cause serious harm if mis -administered.  
To help reduce medication errors associated with the use of electronic infusion pumps, which control the  
delivery of IV drugs to patients, Baxter has an exclusive agreement with SIGMA International General Medical 
Apparatus, LLC (SIGMA), to provide the SIGMA Spectrum Infusion System (large -volume infusion pump) to 
customers. The SIGMA Spectrum pump features Dose Error Reduction Software with hospital -defined Drug 
Libraries including dosing limits and clinical advisories. When a clinician programs an infusion, the  
software verifies that the dose meets facility -determined parameters. If the programmed infusion  is outside  
the pre -determined dosing limits, the pump will alert the clinician before the infusion begins.  
In 2010, Baxter worked with Intermountain Healthcare – a system of 23 hospitals, 150 clinics and 900 
physicians throughout Utah and southeastern Id aho in the United States – to integrate the SIGMA Spectrum 
pump with Intermountain's electronic medical record (EMR) system. This provides continuous wireless 
connectivity between the pump and Intermountain's EMR system to further enhance patient safety an d 
increase staff efficiency. Doctors and pharmacists can send infusion orders electronically directly to the  
pump, where they are displayed on an LED screen during programming. Once infusion begins, the pump 
automatically sends infusion data to Intermount ain's EMR system at regular intervals to support clinical 
documentation requirements. The data also can be tracked, measured and analyzed to support improvement 
of long -term clinical outcomes.  
Baxter's Medical Products business also helps hospitals reduce medication errors through its Connections 
portfolio. Focusing on three key principles - simplification, streamlining and standardization - the portfolio offers 
programs that reduce variability of processes to create a safer environment. These programs, adm inistered by 
Baxter clinical experts, identify and address gaps between current practices and the latest national standards, 
including The Joint Commission, the National Patient Safety Foundation and the United States Pharmacopeia.  
Improving the Safety of Hemophilia Therapy  
When people with hemophilia began contracting HIV from blood products in the early 1980s, Baxter was the 
first to develop a heat -treatment process that killed blood -borne viruses, including HIV, which may have been 
present in plasma -derived factor VIII - the clotting protein missing from the blood of people with hemophilia A. 
Plasma -derived factor VIII was the only factor VIII therapy available at that time. Baxter continued its efforts to 
advance the safety of hemophilia therapy, introdu cing the first genetically manufactured, or recombinant, factor 
VIII in 1992, and the first recombinant factor VIII processed without any blood additives in 2003.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/safety.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Enhancing the Safety of Home Dialysis  
In 1978, Baxter introduced continuous ambulatory perit oneal dialysis (CAPD) - a self -administered home 
therapy - as the first practical alternative to clinic -based hemodialysis for treating end -stage kidney disease,  
or irreversible kidney failure. In CAPD, patients manually infuse solution through a surgical ly implanted 
catheter into their abdominal cavity, where the solution draws waste and excess fluid across the peritoneum  
(or abdominal membrane) that would normally be removed by healthy kidneys.  
When CAPD was introduced, peritonitis - an infection of the  peritoneum - was common, due in part to patient 
handling of the connection site. In 1978, peritonitis rates averaged about one event for every three patient 
months on the therapy. Baxter began introducing a series of innovations to make solution exchanges  easier 
and reduce handling of the connection site. One such innovation was the "twin bag" system, which combines 
infusion and drainage in a single closed system. By 1990, peritonitis rates in many peritoneal dialysis (PD) 
programs had dropped to approxima tely one for every 35 patient months. Today, some PD programs boast 
peritonitis rates as low as one for every 70 patient months.  
Baxter also has advanced patient safety through automated PD systems, which perform solution exchanges 
overnight, while a patie nt sleeps. In early 2011, Baxter received clearance to market in the United States 
software enhancements to its HomeChoice automated PD device. This new software is intended to enhance 
patient safety by introducing new safeguards, such as new functionality  and adjustments to default settings 
and allowable ranges, to help reduce the potential for improper programming parameters and patient use 
errors. Features include: post -therapy displays alerting patients to contact their clinicians if abnormal results 
are noted, new drain logic to encourage more complete PD fluid drains to reduce the residual fluid volume 
present in the patient's peritoneal cavity, and other software changes to help avoid complete solution fills  
when there may be residual fluid present i n the peritoneal cavity.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/safety.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Ensuring Product Integrity  
Counterfeit and/or altered medical products pose growing risks to patient safety worldwide. Baxter launched  
a product integrity initiative in 2007 to safeguard the company’s products from these threats.  
While maintaining product integrity is complex and multifaceted, it encompasses three key aspects: product 
authentication features, track and trace features, and tamper evident features.  
  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/safety.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
In a pilot of Baxter's product integrity initiative, the company  implemented product authentication and security 
features on select Baxter products. Today, 12 products contain layers of product integrity features such as 
watermarks and other security features on their primary packaging. The company continues to impleme nt such 
features across its product lines, and works with industry experts to adopt the latest technology in all aspects  
of product integrity.  
Baxter’s Corporate Product Integrity Reporting Policy requires that all product complaints, adverse events, 
coun terfeiting, tampering, diversion and product theft be reported, and that those events be investigated  
by the company’s Product Surveillance, Pharmacovigilance and/or Brand Integrity functions.  
Complying with Government Regulations  
Baxter's operations and products are subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental agencies 
worldwide. In the United States, the federal agencies that regulate the company's facilities, operations, 
employees, products (their manufacture, sale, import and export) and se rvices include: the Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA), the Drug Enforcement Agency, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Occupational 
Health and Safety Administration, Customs and Border Protection, and the departments of Agriculture, Labor, 
Defense, Commerce, Treasury and others. Because Baxter supplies products and services to healthcare 
providers that are reimbursed by federally funded programs such as Medicare, the company's activities are 
also subject to regulation by the Center for Medicare/Medic aid Services and enforcement by the Department  
of Health and Human Services. State agencies also regulate the facilities, operations, employees, products 
and services of the company within their respective states.  
Outside the United States, Baxter product s and operations are subject to extensive regulation by governmental 
agencies, including the European Medicines Agency in the European Union. International governmental 
agencies also regulate public health, product registration, manufacturing, environmenta l conditions, labor, 
imports, exports and other aspects of the company's global operations.  
The U.S. FDA, as well as other governmental agencies worldwide, administers requirements covering the 
testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, promo tion and advertising, distribution and post -market 
surveillance of Baxter's products. The company must obtain approval, clearance or licensure from the FDA 
before it can market and sell most of its products in the United States. Other countries have simila r pre -market 
registration requirements. Even after the company obtains regulatory approval to market a product, the product 
and the company's manufacturing processes are subject to continued review by regulatory authorities.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/safety.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Addressing Product Safety Iss ues 
When Baxter identifies a quality or safety issue with one of its products or determines that products 
manufactured or marketed by the company do not meet company specifications, published standards or 
regulatory requirements, it investigates and takes appropriate corrective action. This may include withdrawal  
of the product from the market, correction of the problem at the customer location, providing notice to the 
customer of revised labeling and/or other actions.  
For example, Baxter's COLLEAGUE Volum etric Infusion Pump is an electronic device that controls the flow  
of IV drugs to patients. In 2005, Baxter notified customers of several issues that had the potential to disrupt the 
delivery of therapy and placed a hold on shipments of new pumps until th ese problems could be corrected. The 
U.S. FDA classified this as a Class 1 recall. In June 2006, Baxter announced a consent decree with the FDA 
under which the company pursued remediation of the pumps.  
Additional Class 1 recalls related to remediation and repair and maintenance activities were addressed by  
the company in 2007 and 2009. Pursuant to the consent decree, in July 2010, the U.S. FDA issued a final 
order regarding the recall of the company’s COLLEAGUE infusion pumps currently in use in the United  States. 
Baxter is executing the recall over the two years following the final order by offering its customers an option  
to replace their COLLEAGUE pumps.  
For more information on regulatory matters currently being addressed by the company, refer to the di scussion 
in the section entitled "Certain Regulatory Matters" in Item 7 of Baxter’s annual report on Form 10 -K. 
1 "Impact of Switching from an Open to a Closed Infusion System on Rates of Central -Line Associated Bloodstream Infection: A Meta -Analysis of Ti me-Sequence 
Cohort Studies in 4 Countries," Infection Control and Hospital Epidemiology, January 2011, Vol. 32, No. 1  
2 "Preventing Medication Errors," Institute of Medicine, July 2006.  
 
  
http://www.sustainab ility.baxter.com/product -responsibility/research -development -design/product -sustainability -
review.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Product Sustainability Review  
The design stage offers a unique op portunity to shape a product's environmental, health and safety 
performance across the life cycle. During this phase, decisions are made regarding materials selection, 
components that impact energy use, other characteristics that influence carbon footprint , features that affect 
recyclability, and other factors.  
For this reason, Baxter includes Product Sustainability Review (PSR) during the early stages of the product 
development process. PSR is a two -step assessment of a product’s projected environmental, h ealth and safety 
impacts. An initial screen at the product development concept phase reveals high -level sustainability risks and 
opportunities in areas such as regulations and customer and other stakeholder requirements (see graphic).  
The second step is a comprehensive review that identifies improvement opportunities across the life cycle. 
This process includes life cycle assessment -based computer modeling of a proposed product, and may involve 
comparison to existing products. Designers can use this assessm ent to inform material choices and evaluate 
product end -of-life options. Baxter uses these results to confirm product feasibility, help establish product 
requirements and minimize potential product impacts to human health and the environment.  
  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/research -development -design/product -sustainability -
review.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
PSR has hi storically focused on medical devices, ranging from intravenous solution containers to dialysis 
machines, reflecting the greater potential environmental impact of these compared to other Baxter products. 
Since 2005, Baxter has used PSR to evaluate all new medical devices reaching the concept stage of 
development, and currently has several devices under review. In 2010, the company intended to expand  
use of PSR into product development in its BioScience business. However, as a result of changes in the 
BioSc ience organization during the year, this initiative was rescheduled for 2011. When implemented,  
nearly all new products Baxter introduces will complete the PSR process.  
PSR also provides a channel to integrate compliance considerations for existing and up coming product 
regulations.1 In 2008, Baxter enhanced the PSR screen for toxic chemicals. This will help the company  
meet growing customer demands and will also help Baxter prepare for potential chemical restrictions under  
the European Union REACH (Regis tration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemical substances) 
regulation. Product requirements regarding materials choices are adopted and formally acknowledged in the 
product design history file.  See Case Study: Materials Restrictions for mor e information.  
PSR has had positive results. Several reviews influenced materials selection, such as a requirement that  
new machines under development meet the European Union Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) 
Directive restrictions regarding heav y metals. Even though the products are currently exempt, medical devices 
will fall under the scope of the revised RoHS Directive in 2014. Also, recent reviews stipulate that new product 
designs should avoid the use of "Substances of Very High Concern" as l isted under REACH regulation.  
PSR is also playing an important role in the ongoing development of a new dialysis device, which will meet 
RoHS Directive guidelines worldwide and will not contain chemicals from the REACH regulation list of 
"Substances of Ver y High Concern." Baxter is using the device to evaluate using IEC 60601 -1-9, an 
international standard for environmentally conscious design.  
Life Cycle Assessment  
Supplementing PSR, Baxter also uses a formal life cycle assessment (LCA) to evaluate the envi ronmental 
performance of its products. In 2009, Baxter completed several externally verified LCAs demonstrating the 
significant environmental benefits of FLEXBUMIN [Albumin (Human)] - the first and only human albumin2 
solution in a flexible, plastic contai ner - compared to a similar product in a glass bottle. In addition to enhancing 
convenience for customers and users, the FLEXBUMIN container system has a 55 -77% smaller carbon 
footprint, depending on product size and geography. (See Case Study: FLEXBUMIN L ife Cycle Assessment   
for more detail).  
In 2010, Baxter undertook a streamlined LCA that compared two generations of dialyzer products to evaluate 
how material changes affect environmental performance. Dialyzers are filters used during hemodialysis to 
eliminate waste products from the blood of people with end -stage kidney disease. The housing of Baxter’s  
new XENIUM+ dialyzer was converted from a more carbon -intensive plastic, polycarbonate, to a lower  
carbon -intensive plastic, polypropylene. Polypropylene  has a 75% lower carbon footprint than polycarbonate.3 
When compared to the previous generation dialyzers, XENIUM+ has significant environmental benefits. It is   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/research -development -design/product -sustainability -
review.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  BPA-free, uses less resin during manufacturing, generates less biohazardous waste and uses les s  
corrugated packaging.  
More generally, Baxter is working with external LCA experts to update and revitalize the PSR process.  
Baxter plans to have outside stakeholders, including customers, review and provide input on the new process.  
Emerging Customer R equirements  
Customers in the United States and Europe increasingly require information related to product environmental 
performance in requests for proposal and consider that information in vendor selection. Baxter reflects these 
requirements in the PSR pr ocess – i.e., the need to avoid certain chemicals of concern.  
Similarly, governments also increasingly set environmental criteria for "greener" public procurement. In the 
United Kingdom, the National Health Service requires that five percent of the informa tion included in tenders 
describes the company's environmental performance.  
Baxter anticipates that these trends will continue, and that responsiveness to these requirements will  
represent an increasing source of competitive advantage in the future.  
 
1Such as the Europe Community Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Directive, REACH (Registration, 
Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemical substances) Regulation, Energy -using Products (EuP) 
Directive, and Waste Electrical and Electronic Eq uipment (WEEE) Directive.  
2Human albumin, which is an essential protein found in human plasma, is used to treat critically ill patients by 
replacing lost fluid and maintaining adequate blood pressure and volume.  
3Carbon Trust Footprint Expert Database.  
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/research -development -design /bioethics.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Bioethics  
At Baxter, bioethics covers a range of issues, including Animal Welfare, Clinical Trials , genetically modified 
organisms and the cloning and use of human embryos. The company's Bioethics Policy includes Baxter's 
Bioethics Guiding Principles that address topics such as product safety and efficacy, stakeholder concerns, 
risk-benefit analysis, legal and regulatory compl iance, vendor conformance to Baxter's standards, clinical trials, 
animal welfare and biological diversity. Baxter's senior leadership considers these principles, in addition to the 
advice of appropriate scientific and ethical advisors, to determine whether  to proceed in areas requiring 
consideration of bioethical issues. To be justified, the potential benefits to individual subjects and society  
must be proportionate to or outweigh possible risks.  
For more information, see Baxter's Bioethics Position Statem ents.  
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/research -development -design/animal -welfare.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Animal Welfare  
Baxter supports the conscientious use of animals in research only when no other acceptable scientific 
alternative exists to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the company's life saving and sustaining 
therapies. Baxter beli eves that it has an ethical responsibility to ensure the well being and humane care of 
animals it uses in product development and testing. In the substantial majority of cases where Baxter uses 
animal testing, it is required by health authorities to do so.  The other cases primarily relate to new product 
discovery, research and development.  
Consistent with Baxter's Bioethics Position Statement, the company is committed to using and developing 
alternative protocols, methodologies and models which reduce or re place the use of animals. Baxter also 
works to refine current test systems to improve animal welfare while ensuring sound data. For more than  
20 years, the company has supported pre -clinical testing involving humane animal use that complies with  
all rele vant local, national and transnational laws and regulations (as verified by regular inspections by the 
respective authorities/agencies) as well as additional voluntary guidelines, including the following:  
United States  
• U.S. Animal Welfare Act Standards; an d 
• Health Research Extension Act (based on The Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals).  
 
Europe  
• European Treaty Series No. 123 (ETS123) European Convention for the Protection of Vertebrate Animals 
Used for Experimental and Other Scientific Purpose s; and  
• European Directive 86/609/EEC, and soon the revised Directive 2010/63/EU on the protection of animals  
used for scientific purposes.  
 
International  
• World Health Organization Council for International Organizations of Medical Sciences International G uiding 
Principles for Biomedical Research Involving Animals;  
• National Research Council: Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals (revised 2011 version); and  
• American National Standards Institute/Association for the Advancement of Medical 
Instrument ation/International Organization for Standardization 10993 -2 Biological Evaluation of Medical 
Devices - Part 2: Animal welfare requirements.  
 
Veterinary professionals with specialty training operate Baxter's animal facilities, which are overseen by animal 
care and use committees as well as local authorities. These teams of veterinary professionals review research 
and testing protocols, approve those that are appropriately designed, ensure animal welfare and guarantee 
that the information derived is essentia l.  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/research -development -design/animal -welfare.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
All animals used by Baxter are from sources that Baxter's veterinary professionals select carefully and  
monitor regularly. Contract research organizations that Baxter uses to assess the safety of its medical  
products must follow similar animal care a nd welfare standards, and are reviewed as part of Baxter's  
overall quality and regulatory compliance program.  
 
Baxter's Global Animal Welfare Committee  
Baxter's Global Animal Welfare Committee (GAWC) is comprised of internal veterinary professionals and 
animal scientists whose goals are to enhance current programs and to identify and develop new opportunities 
to optimize animal welfare. The committee is sponsored by the company's Chief Scientific Officer Norbert G. 
Riedel, PhD and oversees standards of ani mal welfare across Baxter's global operations and contract  
research organizations including academic institutions.  
The GAWC focuses on:  
• Further developing and implementing programs that will advance the 3Rs (replace, reduce and refine),  
and other animal use initiatives;  
• Encouraging the identification, investigation and validation of alternative test methods when opportunities  
exist and regulations permit;  
• Setting universal standards of animal care and welfare across all Baxter animal research sites and  
external collaborators;  
• Reviewing Baxter´s animal welfare program, policies, standards and best practices regularly;  
• Updating internal animal welfare education and training programs; and Setting strategic direction for  
future activities.  
 
The committee pr ovides ongoing assessment and support of Baxter's animal testing programs to  
harmonize processes and tools globally and to share best practices. The committee's recommendations  
are guided by the Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International's 
system of program accreditation.  
Committee members participate in leading professional organizations where they receive continuing  
education and share best practices. Examples include:  
United States  
• American Association for Lab oratory Animal Science;  
• American College of Laboratory Animal Medicine;  
• American Society of Laboratory Animal Practitioners; and  
• Council on Research for American Veterinary Medical Association   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/research -development -design/animal -welfare.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Europe  
• The European Partnership to Alternative Approaches to Animal Testing; and  
• Federation of European Laboratory Animal Science Associations.  
 
International  
• The Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International.  
 
Replace, Reduce and Refine  
Baxter is committed to enhancing animal welfare through the 3Rs - replacement, reduction and refinement. 
During recent years, Baxter has applied innovations including the following.  
Replacement  
Baxter implements new technologies and processes to substitute animal with non -animal tests.  
• Continue to replace or eliminate animal research in three products by using in -vitro1 tests on individual cells. 
This includes replacing the rabbit pyrogen test (used to assess the potential for adverse events in humans) 
with the non -animal Limulus Amebocyte Lysate  test in more than a dozen production steps.  
• Building upon its expertise in developing cell -based methods of vaccine production, Baxter is using its 
propriety cell line system with next -generation production methods which do not require large quantities  
of fertilized chicken eggs.  
• When permitted, Baxter uses cell -based tests to determine the antibody content for specific antibody -based 
products. For example, for its liquid immune globulin intravenous (IGIV) products that help people with 
compromised immune  systems fight disease, Baxter has replaced animal -based potency testing with a  
cell-based test, recently approved in the United States.  
• Baxter uses thromboelastography (a non -animal, in -vitro test to assess blood clotting) to assess how  
quickly clots fo rm on new products designed to stop bleeding, minimizing the number of animals needed  
for efficacy studies.  
 
Reduction  
When Baxter is required to conduct animal testing, researchers use enhanced data collection and analysis 
methods to reduce overall anima l use.  
• When feasible, Baxter uses automated blood sampling techniques and enhanced analytics to ensure  
high-quality samples every time and reduce the number of needle sticks and related animal stress.  
1In-vitro tests are performed on individual cells in a  lab environment versus in a living organism.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/research -development -design/animal -welfare.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
• Baxter uses non -invasive, state -of-the-art technologies such as CT scans, fluorescent imaging, advanced 
ultrasound and fluoroscopy to decrease the need for invasive testing.  
• As new testing methods become avail able, in cooperation with government regulators, methods must  
be validated and approved prior to medical use of the product. Baxter adopts new, approved methods, 
applies new testing models and thereby reduces animal testing wherever possible. For example,  Baxter  
is investigating testing strategies to reduce intermediate test steps using the rabbit pyrogen (fever -producing) 
test, and when possible combines lot runs to minimize the use of control test animals used in viral vaccine 
potency testing..  
 
Refinem ent 
Baxter researchers work closely with other scientists and industry organizations to share best practices  
and demonstrate continual improvement. The company also supports organizations that aim to reduce the 
need for animal testing and promote animal w elfare.  
• Baxter supports the American Association for Laboratory Animal Science and the American College  
of Laboratory Animal Medicine to investigate alternatives and refinements to laboratory animal use.  
• The company invests in enhanced animal housing to i mprove comfort and reduce stress.  
• Baxter continues to adopt or advance in -vitro techniques to test the efficacy of its products that help  
stop bleeding in patients in critical, life -threatening situations.  
• When possible, the company uses positive reinforc ement conditioning of pigs used in studies to enable 
administration of test materials and collection of blood samples without the use of physical restraint or 
anesthetics, minimizing stress and improving data quality.  
• Using a company -wide process, Baxter e valuates and ensures consistently high standards for all rodent  
and rabbit housing methods and cage -level enrichments  
• Baxter is investigating using analgesics to limit discomfort in tests that evaluate the safety of materials  
used in medical devices.  
• Baxter is exploring using antibody levels in the blood of vaccinated animals as a surrogate marker  
to evaluate viral -based vaccine potency, instead of measuring the ability to resist infection with a live  
virus, thereby avoiding the illness stage of the tes t. 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/research -development -design/clinical -trials.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Clinical Trials  
Clinical trials play an essential role in the development of new medical products and are a required part of the 
research process for many Baxter products. Baxter protects the safety and privacy of clinical trial participants, 
as wel l as the integrity of data obtained from these studies.  
Baxter's Clinical Trials Policy defines the requirements for clinical trials, studies and investigations involving 
human subjects that use investigational and/or marketed medicinal products and/or med ical devices. The 
policy applies to all Baxter -sponsored studies worldwide.  
The standards Baxter adheres to include, but are not limited to, the standards found in the following 
documents:  
• Guidelines for Good Clinical Practice (GCP), edited by the Internat ional Conference on Harmonization (ICH), 
Good Laboratory Practices (GLP), and Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP);  
• Declaration of Helsinki and the laws and regulations of the applicable country;  
• International Ethical Guidelines for Biomedical Research Invol ving Human Subjects;  
• Directive 2001/20/EC and Directive 2005/28/EC on the approximation of the laws, regulations and 
administrative provision of the Member States relating to the implementation of good clinical practices  
in the conduct of clinical trials on medicinal products for humans for Europe; and  
• Applicable privacy and data protection standards.  
 
Clinical trials require prior written approval by an Independent Ethics Committee/Institutional Review Board. 
Prior to any study -related activities or asses sments, the study subjects must provide informed written  
consent. All studies must comply with applicable privacy laws and regulations including, but not limited to,  
the U.S. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act regulations or other applic able  
country -specific requirements.  
For any clinical trial that prospectively assigns human subjects to intervention and comparison groups to  
study the cause -and-effect relationship between a medical intervention and a health outcome, the trial will  
be registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov within  three weeks after the first subject has been recruited.  
  
http://www.sustain ability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/materials -use.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Materials Use  
Customers, governments and other stakeholders are increasingly interested in the materials and chemical 
substances used in products and pa ckaging. With regard to medical products, this is due to employee,  
clinician and patient health and safety in addition to environmental impacts, in particular at the product's  
end-of-life stage. In parts of the world, legislation restricts the use of spe cific substances in products  
(see Case Study: Materials Restrictions). Customers are also interested in which materials are recyclable, 
such as in product packaging.  
Baxter carefully considers the potential impacts of the materials it uses in its products  and packaging,  
and takes a disciplined approach to identifying materials for possible restriction. The company focuses  
both on the amount and the types of materials used, working to eliminate hazardous substances wherever 
possible. Baxter also works to maximize product service life, reuse and recycling when appropriate, for its 
electronic products, for example.  
In 2010, Baxter purchased more than 188,000 metric tons of major commodities for use in its products and 
packaging, in addition to pre -manufactur ed components (see Major Materials Used in Manufacturing).  
The company continues to work to improve the efficiency of its materials use. For example, during 2010,  
the company implemented projects that achieved an annualized reduction of 140 metric tons o f corrugate 
cardboard consumption and a total packaging material reduction of 247 metric tons, providing a total savings  
of 3,500 metric tons since 2007 1 (see Packaging for details). Plastic scrap from manufacturing is Baxter's 
largest waste stream, gener ating roughly one -third of the company's non -hazardous waste, so reducing  
plastic waste and increasing recycling is another key focus (see Waste for details).  
Product Design  
Baxter's research and development and manufacturing operations work  with environm ent, health and safety 
(EHS) specialists to ensure that new products meet robust environmental design principles, comply with 
environmental regulations and satisfy customer requirements. This involves avoiding hazardous substances 
wherever possible, minimi zing resource use and enhancing opportunities for product recovery, reuse, and 
recycling when appropriate.  
As part of the company's product development process, Baxter applies a Product Sustainability Review to  
all new medical devices, assessing health an d safety and environmental impacts across the product life cycle, 
including those related to materials selection and use. This includes an enhanced screen for toxic chemicals. 
Baxter eliminates those materials whenever feasible. For example, new devices un der development are 
designed to meet the European Union's Restriction on Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Directive guidelines 
worldwide and will avoid chemicals from the REACH (Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation and 
Restriction of Chemicals) Directive list of "Substances of Very High Concern" as is feasible. Baxter is also 
evaluating using the IEC 60601 -1-9, an international standard for environmentally conscious design, on a  
new electromechanical device currently being developed.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/materials -use.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Reporting Materials Use 
Customers and governmental regulations increasingly require companies to disclose information about 
materials and chemical substances used in products and manufacturing. However, effectively tracking and 
complying with these regulations is complex give n the volume and evolution of these standards, and since a 
product may contain many components from numerous suppliers worldwide.  
To better meet this challenge, Baxter is implementing a product stewardship software application to manage 
environmental and o ther information related to new and existing products. This includes information about 
product materials content, which will help Baxter evaluate compliance to the RoHS and REACH Directives as 
well as similar emerging regulations in other parts of the worl d. This system will interface with other company 
product information systems as well as supplier information systems, allowing Baxter to better understand, 
manage and optimize product environmental performance and meet customer needs. The company is 
gather ing materials content data from suppliers and began populating the system in the spring of 2011.  
Materials Innovations  
To meet the preferences of some customers and address drug compatibility issues in specific clinical 
applications, Baxter has invested si gnificant resources to develop a variety of materials that meet the unique 
technical, design, regulatory, clinical and commercial requirements of individual product lines and markets.  
The company now offers a portfolio of more than 300 intravenous medicat ions, parenteral nutrition solutions, 
injectable drugs, biopharmaceuticals, IV sets and access devices and other products that use or are contained 
in non-DEHP [di -(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate] or non -PVC materials.  
See Baxter's position statement on PVC in med ical products.  
Broader Impacts  
Baxter recognizes the interrelationship between materials choices and other environmental issues. The 
company estimates that in 2010 the emissions in Baxter's supply chain attributable to Baxter's business 
equaled 1,152,000 m etric tons carbon dioxide equivalent (CO ₂e), 38% of Baxter's total GHG emissions 
footprint. This included an estimated 274,000 metric tons CO ₂e for Baxter's first -tier suppliers, and 878,000 
metric tons CO ₂e for emissions from sub -tier suppliers, including  raw materials extraction and processing as 
well as other activities (see Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Climate Change for more detail).  
In 2009, Baxter completed externally verified life cycle assessments (LCAs) demonstrating the significant 
environmental benefits of FLEXBUMIN - the first and only albumin in a flexible, plastic container - compared to 
a similar product in a glass bottle. In addition to enhancing convenience for customers and users, the non -PVC 
FLEXBUMIN container system has a 55 -77% smaller  carbon footprint, depending on product size and 
geography (see Case Study: FLEXBUMIN Life Cycle Assessment for more  detail).   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/materials -use.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
In 2010, Baxter undertook a streamlined LCA that compared two generations of dialyzer products to  
evaluate how material changes  affect environmental performance. Dialyzers are filters used during 
hemodialysis to eliminate waste products from the blood of people with end -stage kidney disease.  
The housing of Baxter’s new XENIUM+ dialyzer was converted from a more carbon -intensive p lastic, 
polycarbonate, to a lower carbon -intensive plastic, polypropylene. Polypropylene has a 75% lower  
carbon footprint than polycarbonate. 1 When compared to the previous generation dialyzers, XENIUM+  
has significant environmental benefits. It is BPA -free, uses less resin during manufacturing, generates  
less biohazardous waste and uses less corrugated packaging.  
 
1These savings represent the total savings attributable to identified projects across the company, counted only for the first year the packag ing innovation  
is implemented.  
2Carbon Trust Footprint Expert Database.  
 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/manufacturing.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Ri ghts Reserved.   
 
Manufacturing  
Baxter has extensive environmental, health and safety (EHS) programs to minimize environmental impacts  
and ensure employee safety during the manufacture of Baxter' s products. See Environment, Health and Safety 
for more detail.  
Baxter also influences its suppliers' manufacturing practices through its Ethics and Compliance Standards  
for Baxter Suppliers and participation in the Green Suppliers Network. See Supply Cha in for more  detail.  
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/product -transport.html  
© Copyr ight 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Product Transport  
 
Baxter transports large amounts of raw materials and more than 100 million cases of finished products  
each year throughout the company's global supply chain. In some cases, Baxter directly operates its product 
distribution system. For example, Baxter leases fleets to transport its frozen therapies and to home deliver 
Renal products, and it distributes some of its products in selected regions, such as Europe. In other cases, 
Baxter partners with third -party vendor s and carriers.  
Baxter uses several approaches to decrease the environmental impact of product transport, including related 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions:  
• Intermodal Transport  
• Capacity Utilization and Technology Innovation  
• U.S. Renal Truck Fleet  
• Pallet Pr ograms  
• Environmentally Responsible Partnerships  
• Measuring Performance  
 
Intermodal Transport  
Different modes of transport - such as air, ocean, river barges, trucks and rail - have varying levels of 
environmental impact. This is largely because they use dif ferent amounts of fuel per ton of product shipped.  
Baxter has increased its use of intermodal transport in Europe and the United States since 2002 to shift toward 
more energy -efficient modes. Shipping containers are moved from manufacturing plants by truck  and then 
transferred to more efficient and cost -effective rail or -barge transport for longer distances, and then shifted 
back to truck for final delivery. This increases fuel efficiency per ton of product transported, decreases costs 
and reduces emission s. 
Given Baxter's current product mix and global reach, intermodal transport offers the largest opportunity for  
 the company to save costs and reduce GHG emissions related to product transport. Baxter has increased  
the percentage of U.S. shipments using i ntermodal transport from 9.6% in 2005 to 12.8% in 2010. This 
reduced GHG emissions by 14,000 metric tons CO ₂e in 2010 compared to 2005.  
  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/product -transport.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Baxter also conducts route -by-route analysis in Europe to assess possible shifts to intermodal transport. 
Changing from truck to other modes of transport in the region reduced GHG emissions by 9,832 metric tons 
CO ₂e in 2010, compared to what emissions would have been otherwise. These initiatives now cover 65% of 
total replenishment flows in Europe.  
Capacity Utilization and Technology Innovation  
Baxter also improves transport efficiencies by increasing capacity utilization. For  example, use of double -deck 
trucks to replenish distribution centers across Europe has enabled Baxter to transport loads in two trucks that 
have historically required three. In 2010, this saved  101 metric tons of CO ₂e emissions. Baxter also works to 
ensure that trucks are at maximum load capacity, including through collaboration with business partners, 
reducing the number of trucks required.  
In Northampton, United Kingdom, Baxter worked with third -party logistics pro viders to utilize a highly 
aerodynamic teardrop -shaped truck design, which features a full -length curved roof with rounded corners  
that improve air flow and reduce drag force. The design decreases CO ₂e emissions by approximately  
18% while increasing cubi c volume by 10%. Currently, approximately 50% of Baxter’s dedicated fleet in  
the United Kingdom use this model.  
U.S. Renal Truck Fleet  
As the largest part of Baxter's internally managed product transport system, the company's U.S. Renal truck 
fleet provid es home delivery of peritoneal dialysis (PD) supplies to thousands of PD patients each day. During 
the last few years, improvements with environmental benefits have included the following:  
• Requiring new trucks to use nose cones that improve aerodynamics an d increase fuel efficiency;  
• Installing onboard computers to monitor and reduce truck idle times;  
• Capping fleet speeds at 62 miles per hour to optimize fuel usage;  
• Incorporating a second -generation onboard computer system with revised fleet delivery softwar e  
to enhance efficiency;  
• Piloting two electric/diesel hybrid trucks in the California fleet to assess economic impact and potential 
emissions reductions (Baxter may relocate the vehicles to other markets to better capture the possible 
benefits); and  
• Repla cing approximately 20% of the existing fleet with newer, more efficient vehicles annually.  
 
These initiatives, along with the continued upgrade of the Renal fleet to lower emission diesel engines, 
reduced total U.S. Renal fleet emissions by approximately 1 .1% in 2010 compared to 2009. Baxter also 
increased the number of deliveries per driver from 141 to 148 monthly in 2010.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/product -transport.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Pallet Programs  
Wooden pallets are used to consolidate cases of products for transport and to move products within Baxter 
facilities.  Baxter works to use pallets more efficiently to save materials and cost. In Europe, for example, 
programs to recycle pallets within and across Baxter facilities improved pallet utilization and reuse by more 
than 110,000 pallets in 2010, saving nearly $800 ,000.  
In the United Kingdom, Baxter's Northampton distribution center uses "loadhogs" - a reusable plastic cap that 
fits over a pallet - as an alternative to shrink -wrap when shipping boxes of dialysis solutions to home patients.  
Environmentally Responsibl e Partnerships  
Baxter is one of a select number of companies that participate in the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 
(EPA) SmartWay® program as both a Carrier Partner and a Shipper Partner. SmartWay is a partnership 
between the EPA and industry to red uce air pollution and GHG emissions through cleaner, more fuel  
efficient product transport.  
Baxter became a SmartWay Carrier Partner in 2009 with its own U.S. Renal truck fleet, and achieved the 
highest possible score of 1.25, recognizing the company’s "o utstanding" commitment to utilizing commercially 
available fuel -saving options and actively evaluating emerging technologies that help reduce the environmental 
impact of its fleet.  
Besides the company’s own Renal fleet, Baxter works with shipping carriers to deliver other products. In 
January 2011, Baxter was also accepted into the SmartWay Partnership as a Shipper. Since 2009, Baxter 
requires all of its carriers in the United States to be SmartWay members.  
Several of Baxter’s products require temperature c ontrol. To transport these products in the United States, 
Baxter has typically packed them in coolers with gel packs and shipped them by air. In August 2010, Baxter 
partnered with FedEx on a "cold chain" initiative. Using the FedEx network with refrigerate d containers to 
transport select Baxter products, the company eliminated 350 air shipments in 2010 and expects to eliminate 
approximately 2,700 air shipments in 2011. In addition, Baxter saved 3,100 coolers and 11,000 gel packs in 
2010 while ensuring the p roduct remains at the necessary temperature. Moving forward, Baxter expects to 
save 30,000 coolers and 102,000 gel packs in 2011.  
In Europe, Baxter also encourages product transportation programs that reduce GHG emissions, and 
considers such initiatives wh en awarding contracts to carriers.  
In 2011, Baxter and healthcare company UCB agreed to combine their shipments to optimize product  
transport efficiencies in Europe. The companies believe this will help both organizations increase the speed 
and frequency of medicine delivery to patients, while reducing carbon footprint by 30% and cost by 10% on 
average per shipment, depending on the destination and potential for transport synchronization. The pilot  
will begin with destinations in Eastern Europe.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/product -transport.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Since J uly 2008, all product deliveries from Baxter's Northampton, United Kingdom, distribution center have 
been carbon -neutral. This has been achieved through investment in carbon offset projects, mainly renewables 
in developing countries. In 2010, Baxter offset  2,485 metric tons related to this initiative.  
Measuring Performance  
In 2010, Baxter improved alignment of data collection processes used by regional teams to measure fuel 
usage and calculate GHG emissions related to product transport. The company implemen ted regular reports to 
Baxter's Sustainability Steering Committee on regional activities to describe the company's efforts in this area 
and encourage global participation. The company plans to have one global product transport emissions 
measurement system in place in 2012.  
 
Annual GHG Emissions Reductions from Intermodal Transport in the United States  
 2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  
Intermodal Loads  7,892  9,317  10,311  10,414  11,694  
Calculated Fuel Savings 
(liters) * 9,111,685  9,981,006  10,850,690  11,826,347  13,279,940  
Metric Tons of CO ₂e 
Saved  24,602  26,949  29,297  31,931  35,856  
 
*Total calculated fuel savings is the difference between calculated fuel use of intermodal versus truck per load on same route.  
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibili ty/packaging.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Packaging  
Baxter works to decrease the environmental impact of packaging by red ucing the amount of packaging used 
and substituting for environmentally -preferable materials. (See Priority Update: Baxter Will Drive Reductions in 
its Natural Resource Use.) The company implemented projects that achieved an annualized reduction of 140 
metric tons of corrugated  cardboard consumption in 2010. Total annualized savings since 2007 equal 3,500 
metric tons.1 
Packaging Reductions in Latin America  
People with end -stage renal disease (ESRD) - irreversible kidney failure - need dialysis or a kidney t ransplant 
to stay alive. Due to a shortage of organ donors, most ESRD patients use dialysis to cleanse their blood of 
toxins, waste and excess fluid normally removed by healthy kidneys. Patients who choose peritoneal dialysis 
(PD), a self -administered home  therapy, store the solutions required for this treatment in their homes.  
In 2008, Baxter’s facility in Cuernavaca, Mexico started a project to reduce the packaging size for the Renal 
solution cartons, decreasing corrugated waste by more than 1,500 metric tons annually by the end of 2010 
while saving money and enhancing packaging strength. Since the original supplier could not meet the new 
design requirements, Baxter worked with a new vendor to decrease the impact of transporting the product, 
reducing the t otal number of corrugate slip sheets required by 4 -6%, depending on the box configuration.  
This example demonstrates how Baxter can successfully drive a greener product (via light weighting) in its  
own supply chain, thereby creating more sustainable prod ucts.  
Building on this success, the Cuernavaca site also redesigned the cardboard boxes for Baxter’s 250mL and 
500mL intravenous (IV) bags for Baxter’s Medical Products business. The changes will save an estimated 
1,100 metric tons of packaging and $1.2 mi llion annually.  
In Colombia in 2010, Baxter reduced foil consumption in a mini -cap used for Renal products, decreasing 
packaging material use by 6 metric tons annually. Also in Colombia, Baxter redesigned packaging for the 
product Hemosol, saving 11 tons o f HDPE plastic and 12 tons of corrugate during the year.  
United Kingdom Reduces Plastic Pour Bottle Weight  
In Thetford, United Kingdom, Baxter has developed an efficient process to manufacture a pour bottle used  
for irrigation of open wounds after surgery , producing a container from plastic granules, and then filling and 
sealing it in one operation. Extra plastic from molding is then removed, re -ground and re -used. In 2009,  
the site launched an effort to further improve the procedure.  
1These savings repre sent the total savings attributable to identified projects across the company, counted only for the first year the packaging innovation  
was implemented.  
  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/packaging.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
The first step decreased the height of the 1 liter and 500mL containers by 12mm, decreasing materia l use by 
approximately 5%. In the second step, the site reduced bottle thickness, after conducting trials to confirm that 
modification would not impact packaging integrity or shelf life. This change decreased materials use by another 
5%. Together, these mo difications saved 54 tons of HDPE plastic on an annualized basis.  
More Efficient Parenteral Nutrition Packaging in China  
Parenteral nutrition, administered intravenously, provides life -sustaining support for patients who cannot 
receive adequate nutrients t hrough other means. Baxter’s products in this area include solutions, container 
systems, admixing technology and vitamin and mineral formulas.  
Baxter’s facility in Guangzhou, China decreased the packing foam used to protect one of its parenteral nutrition 
products, without impacting product protection. This change reduced the packaging weight for each unit by 
24%, an annualized savings of 8.6 metric tons.  
 
  
http://www.sustainability.bax ter.com/product -responsibility/product -use.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Product Use  
Advertising and Promotion  
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and other agenci es worldwide regulate the advertising and 
promotion of pharmaceuticals, medical devices and biologics. Included in FDA's oversight are print and 
broadcast advertising, websites, press releases, sales brochures, scientific symposia and convention booths, 
among other promotional materials and activities.  
Baxter's Advertising and Promotion staff manage the company's compliance with promotional regulations 
companywide. These regulatory professionals review marketing materials (nearly 5,000 pieces globally in 
2010, up from slightly more than 4,500 pieces in 2009) for accuracy and balance in terms of product risks and 
benefits. Baxter's advertising and promotion standards for all business groups in the United States incorporate 
best practices from inside and outsi de the company and comply with the Code of Federal Regulations.  
The company also uses a centralized process to ensure that marketing materials for distribution in Europe are 
accurate, appropriate and comply with the European Federation of Pharmaceutical In dustries and Associations 
(EFPIA) Code on the Promotion of Prescription -Only Medicines to, and Interactions with, Healthcare 
Professionals. The Code defines standards for the ethical promotion of pharmaceutical products to ensure 
appropriate interactions b etween pharmaceutical companies and healthcare professionals and patients. 
Baxter's procedures ensure review of marketing materials at the pan -European level, as well as at the country 
level for compliance with local codes of practice and national product licenses. Baxter also adheres to the 
EUCOMED UNAMEC Code  that covers medical devices.  
Compliance  
If a company is not in compliance with advertising and promotion regulations in the United States, the FDA  
or the Department of Justice may initiate civil or criminal enforcement actions depending on the seriousness  
of the violation, its potential impact on public health or other factors. Enforcement actions can range from  
an untitled letter, the least serious enforcement action, a warning letter, an elevated  enforcement action,  
up to a criminal indictment.  
In April 2010, Baxter received a warning letter from the FDA citing select promotional materials created in 
support of ARALAST NP (Alpha1 Proteinase Inhibitor) as misleading. Specifically the FDA identifie d a 
promotional brochure that the Agency felt made misleading efficacy claims. Baxter discontinued distribution  
of the brochure immediately upon receipt of the FDA letter, and began the process of identifying all materials 
with similar claims while also p reparing a response to the FDA. Baxter continues to work with the FDA to 
ensure the company’s promotional materials meet Agency standards.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/product -use.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
U.S. FDA Letters Related to Advertising/Promotion Received by Baxter  
 2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  
Untitled Lett ers 0 0 0 1 0 0 
Warning Letters  0 0 0 0 1 1 
 
Comparable information is not commonly available outside the United States.  
See the Priority Update: Ethical Conduct and Legal Compliance for details  about Baxter's progress against its 
goal to continue to cha mpion internal and industrywide ethical sales and marketing  practices.  
Access to Healthcare  
Worldwide, many people lack access to Baxter's products due to insufficient resources, inadequate healthcare 
infrastructure, disruption caused by natural disasters and other crises, and other factors. Baxter works to 
increase access to healthcare globally through product development, initiatives targeted specifically at the 
"base of the pyramid"1, product donations and philanthropic giving. See Access to Healthcare  for more detail . 
1The term "base of the pyramid" refers to the approximately 4 billion people who live on less than $1,500 annually and have limited access to the  
healthcare market.  
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/product -end-of-life.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Product End -of-Life 
The responsible treatment of healthcare products a t the end of their useful life is an emerging issue worldwide. 
The appropriate approach varies by type of product, so Baxter has a range of initiatives. For example, many of 
the electronic medical devices Baxter sells, such as Renal Automated Peritoneal Di alysis cyclers, are well 
suited to repair and refurbishment after the original customer has finished using them. Other products, such as 
intravenous (IV) bags, cannot be reused but may be responsibly recycled to recapture materials for other uses.  
Electron ic Products  
Baxter has programs to refurbish and return electronic products to use when possible, and to recycle those 
products when reuse is not feasible.  
Repair and Refurbishment  
In some countries, Baxter leases most of its electronic medical products to  customers, which helps ensure they 
will be returned to Baxter after a set period of time. Repair and refurbishment extends a product's useful life 
and decreases the environmental impacts associated with product disposal and the manufacture of new 
products . 
Recycling  
Regulations worldwide reflect the recent focus on electronic product recycling. For example, the European 
Union Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) Directive requires companies to arrange for the 
take-back of electronic products at  end-of-life to enable the recovery and recycling of product components and 
materials. It impacts a range of Baxter products in Europe, including dialysis machines, IV pumps and other 
electronic devices. . Baxter is in full compliance in all EU member stat es where the regulations have been 
adopted and has joined appropriate compliance programs. In 2010, 32 metric tons of electronic products were 
recovered on Baxter's behalf through these programs in Europe.  
Also in 2010, Baxter updated its WEEE website that  provides  customers detailed information on WEEE and 
how to dispose of Baxter products in accordance with the EU WEEE Directive. Baxter added a link to the 
website to provide customers with information about how to recycle Baxter products covered by the WE EE 
Directive in each of 26 countries.  
When customers return products to Baxter that contain batteries, or when Baxter repairs those products  
on-site, Baxter sends the batteries to a recycler whenever feasible, or provides for responsible disposal.  
Baxter  has a global audit program covering all regulated or medical waste recycling or disposal sites that 
Baxter uses for waste generated internally. As part of this program, trained Baxter auditors assess  
battery recycling sites   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/product -end-of-life.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Re served.   
before using the vendor and  then at least once every four years to ensure they comply with Baxter's 
requirements and conduct their operations responsibly. These audits examine all aspects of operations, 
including site history, regulatory compliance, financial conditions, insurance, and other factors.  
Disposable Medical Waste  
Baxter has worked with customers, other companies in the industry, and recycling and disposal vendors to 
facilitate the recycling and responsible treatment of disposable medical products. The company was a charte r 
member of the Healthcare Plastics Recycling Council (HPRC), an alliance of global healthcare companies 
focused on the recycling of plastic products in hospitals. Baxter discontinued its membership in 2010, as the 
HPRC is currently focused solely on pre -patient contact materials. As such, Baxter products such as IV bags 
and administration sets are out of scope.  
Baxter continues to look for other opportunities to partner with waste management and recycling firms to test 
the economic and logistical feasibili ty of more efficient management of wastes generated from Baxter IV 
products. Possibilities include creating products from recycled materials that can be reused in the medical 
supply chain, such as plastic pallets made from mixed IV bags or packaging.  
In Ireland, Baxter launched a program in 2007 with local waste management contractors to provide pick -up 
services at patient residences for home -use oncology and general compounded products such as vials, 
needles and drugs that cannot be processed with regular municipal waste. The contractors collect, process 
and dispose of the products as required by law1, while protecting patient confidentiality and privacy. This 
provides a valued service to patients and communities while ensuring environmentally responsible w aste 
disposal.  
Building on the original initiative, in 2008 Baxter launched a similar program for Renal products supplied to 
Baxter home dialysis patients in Ireland, and in 2009 the company extended the program to all home patient 
therapies in the country . Materials classified as "clinical" waste such as over pouches, bags, cassettes and 
shields are processed as described in footnote. 1 The program also collects recyclable materials such as 
cardboard from patients' homes where local authorities don't offer this service, decreasing the amount of these 
materials that go to disposal.  
In 2010, Baxter provided waste -collection services to more than 700 home patients in Ireland. Some of the 
waste collected is used to fuel furnaces in an Irish cement factory, reduc ing the amount of waste sent to 
landfill. For these efforts, Baxter Ireland was recognized as a finalist in both the Envirocom Awards, supported 
by a local chamber of commerce, and the Repak Ireland National Awards, a national government waste 
prevention a nd recycling initiative, in 2010.  
1Oncology products are classed as "hazardous" waste in Ireland which requires specialized incineration. Non -hazardous medical waste is classed as "clinical" 
waste and is sterilized and shredded before the material is accep ted for landfill.  
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2010 -report/materials -restrictions.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Materials Restrictions  
The European Union's Restriction on Hazardous Substances 
(RoHS)  Directive, effective July 1, 2006, seeks to phase out the 
use of lead, mercury, cadmium and three other substances used 
in electronic products such as computers, televisions and mobile 
phones. This is principally aimed at minimizing negative 
environmental  impacts from these substances throughout the 
product life cycle, in particular at product end -of-life. 
Although the present RoHS Directive does not include medical 
equipment, the European Commission has proposed that medical 
equipment will be included in early 2014. Furthermore, 
environmental regulations in Europe often influence those in other 
nations, and countries such as China, Korea, Taiwan and some 
U.S. states such as California have already implemented 
legislation similar to RoHS. Baxter is developi ng a global strategy 
to respond to these regulations worldwide.  
Baxter is also working to ensure it meets the European Union's new chemical Directive, REACH (Registration, 
Evaluation and Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals), which was introduced in 2007. Under the 
legislation, chemical suppliers, manufacturers or importers of more than one metric ton of a chemical 
substance each year must register the substance with the new European Chemical Agency (ECHA) central 
database. The regulation expands sign ificantly the number of substances that will require authorization for use, 
and identifies "Substances of Very High Concern" that may face future restrictions. It also requires companies 
to proactively inform customers about the presence of specified subst ances in products.  
All substances (medicinal products are exempted) were required to be pre -registered between June 1, 2008 
and December 1, 2008, to take advantage of the staggered implementation program. In 2009, Baxter 
inventoried the substances and prep arations it uses in Europe and collaborated with its suppliers to ensure that 
appropriate chemical substances were either pre -registered by suppliers or by Baxter.  
Baxter's cross -functional REACH team oversees the company's ongoing response to this  regulat ion and 
explores further opportunities to eliminate hazardous substances. In 2008, the European Union Battery 
Directive came into effect and was translated into law in several member countries. This directive restricts the 
presence of mercury and cadmium i n batteries produced and sold in the European Union, although it includes 
an exemption for cadmium that extends to batteries for medical devices. The legislation also defines labeling 
requirements and collection and recycling targets.  
 Baxter's commitment to minimizing waste is 
evidenced in its manufacturing facilities that 
capture, regrind, and reuse scrap plastic 
materials.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2010 -report/materials -restrictions .html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
To keep informed o f these sorts of trends, Baxter's global Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) 
organization assesses existing, new and emerging environmental regulations in Europe to identify and 
prioritize critical business issues, and helps the company develop position s and strategies aimed at improving 
its environmental performance. A global EHS team also monitors similar producer responsibility regulations 
worldwide.   
Supply Chain   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/supply -chain/in dex.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Supply Chain  
 
 
 
At Baxter, "supply chain" refers to the organization and activities that plan and coordinate product inputs from 
tens of thousands of suppliers worldwide to Baxter manufacturing operations; develop schedules to meet 
forecasted demand; and distribute finished products to customers in more than 100 countries. The company 
relies on this supply chain to securely deliver t he right products to the right places at the right time.  
 
In addition to the Global Supplier Sustainability Program, Baxter drives a sustainable supply chain through a 
variety of activities including:  
• Managing Supplier Performance  - Establishing Baxter's e xpectations for and ensuring supplier 
commitment to sustainability;  
• Global Sustainable Supply Chain  - Promoting practices that enhance supplier environmental performance;  
 Baxter driver David Kirkpatrick delivers dialysis products to home patient Liam McMahon in Belfast, Northern Ireland.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/supply -chain/in dex.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  • Product Transport  and Packaging  - Optimizing logistics and improving packaging to minimize related 
environmental impacts (included in the Product Res ponsibility  section);  
• Supplier Diversity  - Maintaining a supplier base that reflects the diversity of Baxter's markets and the 
communities in which the compan y operates; and  
• Customers  - Managing a safe, secure and reliable supply chain to ensure patient safety and meet  
customer needs, and decreasing environmental i mpacts and cost through e -commerce.  
 
  
http://www .sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -operations -products/green -supply -chain.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A significant amount of Baxter's broader environmental impacts occur within its supply chain. Baxter 
concentrates its efforts to green its supply chain on minimizing transportation -related emissions, procur ing  
raw materials and other goods and services with reduced environmental impacts, and promoting suppliers 
improving their environmental performance.  
 
In 2010, Baxter's U.S. car fleet emitted 10,200 metric tons carbon dioxide equivalent (CO 2e) of greenho use  
gas (GHG) emissions. Baxter's average GHG emissions per mile declined by 0.3% below the 2007 baseline, 
mainly due to a shift to the use of four cylinder vehicles from six cylinder vehicles.  
Baxter began adding four cylinder vehicles to its fleet in 20 08 and is increasingly doing so as cars come up  
for renewal. Baxter expects to see ongoing incremental improvements in GHG emissions from its auto fleet  
as this trend continues.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -operations -products/green -supply -chain.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Starting in 2010, Baxter only offered SmartWay™ certified vehicles on its main selection list, covering  
95% of the company's United States car fleet upon replacement. Baxter also implemented a pilot of hybrid 
vehicles with its sales force in 2011.  
Baxter has faced challenges in making progress against this goal, such as meeting  driver requests while 
maintaining costs and reducing emissions. In 2009, Baxter found that the actual fuel efficiency varied from 
manufacturers' claims on a new model that many U.S. drivers had in 2009, which negatively impacted 
progress against the goal.  To address this, Baxter selected new vehicle manufacturers in 2010 and only 
selected model types more than one year old to ensure reliable data exist on the model. Baxter also  
continued its benchmark against other companies through Baxter's fleet managem ent partner to determine 
best practices.  
 
In 2010, Baxter continued to roll out its Global Supplier Sustainability Program, which includes an initiative  
to procure products and services that help the company reduce its environmental impact while maintain ing 
continuity of supply and managing costs. Approximately 70% of the initiatives comprising the Global Supplier 
Sustainability Program are implemented at the regional or country level.  
In 2010, Baxter created an internal Global Supplier Sustainability Cou ncil to provide oversight for implementing 
the company's Global Supplier Sustainability program worldwide. The Council meets quarterly to encourage 
employee engagement and address obstacles in implementing the program locally.  
Since 2009, Baxter has incorp orated 20 green criteria into its purchasing procedures to provide its 
procurement organization a framework to evaluate suppliers' sustainability initiatives. Baxter structured these 
criteria to fall into four categories that align with Baxter's own sustai nability efforts. In 2010, Baxter added a fifth 
category to evaluate suppliers' protection of human rights since Baxter considers this an important component 
of suppliers' sustainability commitments. Baxter conducted its second annual survey of its select 100 suppliers 
in 2010 to evaluate suppliers' performance against these green criteria ( see table and discussion).   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -operations -products/green -supply -chain.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Baxter Annual Supplier Sustainability Survey Results  
% Green *  2009 ** 2010  
Environmental / Sustainability Program  
Example criteria: Meas ures and reports environmental information  34% 30% 
Protection of Human Rights  
Example criteria: Has a goal and programs to prevent & reduce work -
related injuries  (added in 2010)  88% 
Reductions in Carbon Footprint  
Example criteria: Has a goal and program to reduce GHG emissions  46% 61% 
Reduction in Natural Resources Use  
Example criteria: Has a goal and activities to reduce waste generation  61% 55% 
Enhanced Product Stewardship  
Example criteria: Uses a product stewardship / life cycle approach  24% 35% 
 
* Suppliers considered green in category when responding positively ("yes" or "in progress") to 90% of those questions in category.  
**2009 Results modified to include suppliers responding positively to programs "in progress."  
 
Baxter continued its e -Impact p rogram to recognize employees and suppliers for impactful environmental 
initiatives. (See Case Study: Baxter Recognizes Suppliers through e -Impact Program for recent examples.)  
Integrating sustainability language in request for proposal (RFP) and supplier contract templates is another 
core aspect of Baxter's program. In 2010, Australia, Brazil, Colombia, Mexico, and New Zealand implemented 
these changes, in addition to Canada and the United States which had done so previously.  
Baxter's efforts to drive a su stainable supply chain extend beyond these two 2015 goals. Please see the 
Supply Chain section in this report to learn more, including regarding the company's material compliance 
project, water scarcity strategy, efforts to reduce product transport -related  emissions, and participation in the 
U.S. Customs -Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C -TPAT) program.  
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/supply -chain/managing -supplier -performance.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Managing Supplier Performance  
 
Approximately 35,000 suppliers in more than 100 countries provide the goods, services and raw materials 
required by Baxter's operations worldwide. In 2010, Baxter's total supplier spending was approximately $5.5 
billion. About 26% of this was on "direct" supplies - raw materials and components used in Baxter products. 
Baxter buys most of its direct supplies from compani es located near its operations. All other supplies are 
considered "indirect" – goods and services that support other aspects of the company's operations.  
Supplier Standards  
Baxter’s  Global Supplier Sustainability Program  builds on several sustainability -related standards that govern 
Baxter's supplier relationships. Baxter's Supplier Quality Standard and Ethics and Compliance Standards for 
Baxter Suppliers provide a framework for consistent supplier -evaluation and selection, and define policies and 
expectati ons for ethical behavior when doing business with Baxter. Baxter evaluates and approves all suppliers 
before purchasing any materials, components, products or services.  
The Supplier Quality Standard  specifically addresses sustainability issues, including indentured child labor, 
employment standards, waste and energy reduction, and ethics.  Baxter's Ethics and Compliance Standards  
for Baxter Suppliers , available in 19 languages, also cover child labor, as well as confidential information, 
intellectual property, gifts and entertainment, anti -corrupti on, conflicts of interest, trade compliance, fair 
employment opportunities, and environment, health and safety (EHS).  
Baxter expects all suppliers to comply with both sets of standards as well as all laws governing purchasing, 
and may terminate agreements with suppliers that do not. Baxter also asks key suppliers to provide emergency 
response plans describing how they will continue to provide vital supplies in the event of a catastrophe or other 
business interruption.  
Ethics training is mandatory for employ ees in Baxter's Purchasing and Supplier Management (PSM) 
organization. All PSM employees that interface with suppliers are required to take an online ethics and 
compliance course as well as a live session conducted by Baxter's Ethics and Compliance organiz ation.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/supply -chain/managing -supplier -performance.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Annual Supplier Sustainability Survey  
Baxter conducted its second annual survey of 100 select suppliers in 2010 to evaluate their performance 
against the company’s green criteria  (see table). Suppliers’ responses do not affect whether Baxter will 
continue to work with the supplier. Rather, Baxter uses the surveys to learn more about suppliers’  
sustainability programs and identify opportunit ies for best practice sharing and collaboration designed to 
improve the performance of both Baxter and its suppliers.  
Baxter identifies 100 suppliers each year to survey based on spend, the supplier’s importance to business 
continuity, and their carbon foo tprint. In 2010, these suppliers represented approximately 18% of Baxter’s 
global supplier spend. This group includes suppliers from each of Baxter’s regions and all of its major 
commodity groups and purchasing categories. In 2010, 77% of the suppliers ask ed to complete the  
survey did so.  
Based on supplier responses, 44% of the respondents in the 2010 survey were rated “green” based on 
Baxter’s criteria, compared to 34% of 70 respondents in 2009.  
Baxter Annual Supplier Sustainability Survey Summary Results  
Category  % Green * 
 2009 ** 2010  
Environmental / Sustainability Program  
Example Criteria: Measures and reports environmental information  34% 30% 
Protection of Human Rights  
Example Criteria: Has a goal and programs to prevent and reduce  
work -related inj uries  (added in 2010)  88% 
Reductions in Carbon Footprint  
Example Criteria: Has a goal and program to reduce GHG emissions  46% 61% 
Reductions in Natural Resource Use  
Example Criteria: Has a goal and activities to reduce waste generation  61% 55% 
Enhanced Product Stewardship  
Example Criteria: Uses a product stewardship/life cycle approach  24% 35% 
Percentage of Responding Suppliers Considered "Green" Overall  34% 44% 
 
*Suppliers considered green in category when responding positively ("yes" or "in progress" ) to 90% of those questions in category.  
** 2009 Results modified to include suppliers responding positively to programs "in progress."  
 
While Baxter aims to the keep the supplier list consistent for comparability year over year, certain suppliers are 
adde d or removed from the survey set due to changes in business needs, contractual needs or other reasons. 
Percentage changes from 2009 to 2010 in some categories may be due partly to this variation.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/supply -chain/managing -supplier -performance.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Supplier Environmental, Health and Safety Audits  
Baxter has  a long history of conducting audits to verify that the company's facilities have EHS programs that 
meet Baxter's EHS requirements, goals and objectives (see EHS Audits ). Increasingly, Baxter is extending this 
practice to its suppliers, to ensure that they also meet Baxter’s standards. Audits can improve supplier 
performance, support continuity of supply by identifying potential risk at supplier  facilities, and strengthen 
supplier relationships with Baxter. This practice involves collaboration between Baxter's Ethics and 
Compliance, Global Purchasing Supplier Management, and Global Compliance Supplier Quality organizations.  
Recognizing Supplier S ustainability Efforts  
Baxter continued its e -Impact program in 2010 to document, communicate and recognize supplier 
environmental initiatives. Suppliers who implement projects that improve their sustainability performance, such 
as changing a manufacturing process in a way that reduces energy usage or waste generation, are recognized 
with an electronic certificate. Baxter employees who submit such stories are also recognized.  
In 2010, Baxter’s e -Impact program recognized five supplier initiatives that produc ed the following benefits:  
Combined Results of Recognized e -Impact Examples, 2010  
Cost Savings  $231,000  
CO ₂e Emissions Reduction  162 metric tons  
Recycled Material  87 metric tons  
Water Reduction  7,800 gallons  
Corrugated Boxes Saved  2,100  
Cost Savings  $231,000  
 
See Case Study: Baxter Recognizes Suppliers through e -Impact Program and Case Study: Engaging 
Suppliers to Reduce Environmental Impact for additional information and examples from the e -Impact program. 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/supply -chain/global -sustainable -supply -chain.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
 
Global Sustainable Supply Chain  
 
 
Baxter educates and empowers its global Purchasing Supplier Management (PSM) personnel and the 
company’s broader employee population to influence purchasing decisions and implement supplier initiatives 
that enhance sustainability performance. These efforts support and strengthen Baxter's commitment to reduce 
its environmental impact while maintaining continuity of su pply and managing costs.  
Global Supplier Sustainability Program  
Through Baxter’s Global Supplier Sustainability Program, the company integrates sustainable practices into its 
procurement policies and procedures. Approximately 70% of the initiatives compris ing the Global Supplier 
Sustainability Program were implemented at the regional or country level by the end of 2010. The program 
focuses on:  
• Green supply chain  - Procuring products and services that have reduced environmental impact (see 
below ); 
• Material compliance  - Working with suppliers to meet the growing number of regulations worldwide related 
to product materials (see below ); 
• Supplier environmental, health and safety audits  - Ensuring that suppliers meet Baxter standards in 
their manufacturing operatio ns (see Managing Supplier Performance ); and  
• C-TPAT (Customs -Trade Partnership Against Terrorism) Program  - Collaborating with governments 
and other businesses to strengthen international supply chains and U.S. border security (see below ). 
 
Green Procurement  
One of Baxter's 2015 sustainability goals  is to incorporate green principles into its purchasing program with 
100 select suppliers. Baxter and its suppliers  both benefit from these efforts.  
Since 2009, Baxter has integrated 20 green criteria into its purchasing procedures to provide its procurement 
organization a framework to evaluate suppliers’ sustainability initiatives. These criteria fall into four catego ries 
that align with Baxter’s own sustainability efforts. In 2010, Baxter added a fifth category to evaluate suppliers’ 
protection of human rights since Baxter considers this an important aspect of suppliers’ sustainability 
commitments. Baxter conducts an annual survey  of 100 select suppliers to evaluate their performance against 
these green criteria.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/supply -chain/gl obal-sustainable -supply -chain.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  RFPs and Supplier Agreements  
Baxter considers cost , quality, environmental criteria and other factors when selecting and evaluating its 
suppliers to reduce the company's environmental impact while maintaining continuity of supply and managing 
costs. Since 2008, Baxter has included sustainability language in its request for proposal (RFP) documents 
and its standard supplier agreements used in the United States and Canada, to complement price, quality, 
service and other traditional selection factors. Starting in 2010, Baxter now includes sustainability langu age in 
RFPs and supplier contract templates in Australia, Brazil, Colombia, Mexico and New Zealand, and plans to 
extend this to additional countries in 2011.  
Baxter's updated RFPs ask suppliers to provide:  
• Their sustainability policy and mission statement;  
• A description of company sustainability initiatives and outcomes;  
• A list of sustainability -related awards received;  
• Disclosure of environmental violations and fines for the past three years;  
• Details on purchasing from diverse suppliers, particularly relat ed to products and services in the RFP (as 
applicable); and  
• Information about other initiatives that would support Baxter's sustainability goals . 
 
Baxter's standard sup plier agreement requires U.S. -based suppliers to certify compliance with federal and 
state equal opportunity laws. Suppliers also commit to make good -faith efforts to consider small, minority -
owned, women -owned, veteran -owned and other diverse suppliers wh en engaging their own suppliers.  
The agreement also encourages suppliers to support Baxter's sustainability initiatives by identifying for Baxter's 
use products and/or services with reduced environmental impact. Baxter asks its suppliers to provide updates  
on their sustainability activities.  
Tracking Global Progress  
Baxter monitors global PSM progress in implementing the company's green supply chain programs as well as 
supplier progress in applying Baxter's green criteria . The company also tracks suppliers' progress in their own 
sustainability programs, and incorporates results into supplier business reviews.  
Understanding the risks  and opportunities related to reducing GHG emissions within its supply chain is a 
related area of focus. To this end, the company participated in the  Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP)  Supply 
Chain Program in 2009 and 2010. This program encourages transparent disclosure of GHG emissions data by 
providing a standard methodology to calculate supply chain emissions using supplier data. This  is a key step in 
understanding and managing a company's b roader carbon footprint. The CDP distributed a questionnaire on 
Baxter's behalf to 10 of the company's top suppliers. Six of these suppliers responded to the survey in 2009 
and six of 10 suppliers responded in 2010.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/supply -chain/gl obal-sustainable -supply -chain.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Product Material Regulatory Compliance  
Effectively tracking the materials and chemical substances used in products and manufacturing is complex 
since a product may contain many components from numerous suppliers worldwide. To better meet this 
challenge, Baxter contracted with a specialized servi ce provider to manage environmental and other 
information related to new and existing products. This includes information about product materials content, 
which will help Baxter evaluate compliance to the European Union  Restriction of Hazardous Substances 
(RoHS)  and Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation of Chemicals (REACH) Directives as well as similar 
emerging regulations in other parts of the world.  
Baxter began contacting suppliers in September 2010 as part of the company’s Material Compliance Proj ect. 
This initiative ensures that materials used in Baxter’s products comply with a wide range of environmental 
regulations in Europe, individual U.S. states, and other countries worldwide (e.g., Australia, Canada, China, 
Korea and Japan) while maintaining  high -quality standards and satisfying customer requirements.  
Baxter will store data collected from suppliers in a database that interfaces with other company and supplier 
information systems, to allow Baxter to better understand, manage and optimize produ ct environmental 
performance and meet customer needs while facilitating regulatory compliance. The company began phasing 
in this system in 2009. See Materi als Use  for more  information about Baxter's programs in related areas.  
U.S. Customs -Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C -TPAT) 
Program  
In March 2011, Baxter was recognized as a Tier III Partner in the U.S. Customs -Trade Partnership Against 
Terrorism (C -TPAT) program. C -TPAT is a joint U.S. government -business initiative that builds cooperative 
relationships to enhance U.S. border security, with a focus on strengthening security throughout the supply 
chain. As a C -TPAT participant since August 2009, Baxte r has committed to maintaining Tier III security criteria 
as well as ongoing enhancements to the security of its global supply chain.  
Tier III is the highest level an importer can achieve in the C -TPAT program. Currently, only approximately three 
percent o f the more than 10,000 program participants have achieved this status. Baxter’s internal C -TPAT 
steering committee remains committed to monitoring and enhancing its supply chain practices and 
implementing process improvements as needed.  
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/supply -chain/supplier -diversity.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Supplier Divers ity 
 
 
Baxter works to develop mutually beneficial relationships with small and diverse suppliers, and strives to 
continue to expand the diversity of its supplier base. This is a key aspect of the company's broader 
commitment to inclusion and diversity . Baxter also uses its annua l supplier sustainability survey  and 
contracting process to assess the supplier diversity programs of its own suppliers.  
Baxter has been a corporate sponsor of the National Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC) for 
more than 20 years, and in 2006 joined the NMSDC Health Care Industry Group. Baxter is also a corporate 
partner of the Women’s Economic Development Organization. The company participates regularly in vendor 
fairs to promote supplier diversity, and maintains an  online database  that enables small and diverse 
businesses in the United States to share their capabilities with Baxter procurement representatives.  
Since 2008, Baxter has included supplier diversity information in its supplier agreement summary sheets 
approved by senior management. These checklists include questions such as: How many diverse suppliers 
were included in the sourcing process? What classification were those suppliers? Was the selected supplier 
divers e? If not, why?  
2010 Supplier Diversity Performance  
In 2010, Baxter spent approximately $491 million with small businesses in the United States and Puerto Rico, 
which was approximately 20% of Baxter's total supplier spending of $2.4 billion in those market s during the 
year. The company spent approximately $97 million with women -owned businesses and $34 million with 
minority -owned firms in the United States and Puerto Rico. Veteran -owned, service -disabled veteran -owned, 
small disadvantaged and HUBZone -certif ied businesses represented approximately $6.6 million, $0.5 million, 
$13 million and $3.4 million of Baxter's spending, respectively.  
Baxter Supplier Diversity Spending (Dollars in Millions) * 
 2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  
Small Businesses  $504  $399  $457  $484  $491  
Women -Owned Businesses  95 95 88 80 97 
Minority -Owned Businesses  40 23 24 20 34 
 
*United States and Puerto Rico. Fiscal year basis (October 1 through September 30 of the year noted). Accounts payable data are sent to a third party, which 
categorize s spending. Other categories in total include veteran -owned, service -disabled veteran -owned, small disadvantaged and HUBZone -certified businesses. 
HUBZone is a United States Small Business Administration (SBA) program for small companies that operate and e mploy people in Historically Underutilized 
Business Zones (HUBZones).  
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/supply -chain/customers.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Right s Reserved.   
 
Customers  
 
Baxter's supply chain extends from producers of raw materials to end users of the company's products. 
Maintaining a safe, secure and reliable supply chain is essential fo r ensuring patient safety. Baxter's supply 
chain must function without interruption even when natural disasters and other unexpected crises occur. Baxter 
also works to ensure the way it transports its products  to customers is reliable and environmentally 
responsible.  
Increasing Efficiency Through eCommerce  
Baxter offers electronic product fulfillment options that help customers automate business transactions . The 
online eServices Center, provided to customers free of charge, enables easy order placement , inquiries, usage 
reports, and shipment tracking. Customers can find Baxter's product s in the company's online catalog, 
available in 14 countries. Baxter supports standard electronic data interchange (EDI) as well as transactions 
processed through the Global Healthcare Exchange (GHX). The exchange is owned by Baxter and other 
healthcare ma nufacturers, group purchasing organizations and distributors, and enables healthcare providers 
to transact with multiple vendors through one electronic connection.  
Electronic ordering, invoicing, payment, advanced -ship notices, distributor transactions and  inquiries enable 
Baxter to streamline customer transactions and reduce paper use and costs. Nearly 82% of order lines are 
handled electronically in the United States.  
Increasing Supply Chain Efficiency and  Improving Patient Safety 
Through Global Standards  
Baxter endorses and strongly supports the GS1 standards for healthcare.   Baxter believes that industry -wide 
adoption of these standards will improve patient safety and will drive increased efficiency and integrity within 
the healthcare system.  
To this end , Baxter is actively working with industry partners to implement GS1 standards for healthcare.   
These standards include standard location numbers that simplify the way customers order and are invoiced for 
products and standard product numbers that make it easier to consistently identify Baxter products.  
Industry adoption of GS1 healthcare standards will help to ensure that our products are moved correctly and 
efficiently throughout the supply chain.   Ultimately, adoption of these standards will enable healt hcare 
professionals to ensure they are administering the right product to the right patient at the right time.  
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2010 -report/e -impact.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Case Study: Baxter Recognizes Suppliers  
through e -Impact Program  
 
 
 
Baxter's e -Impact program documents, communicates 
and recognizes envir onmental initiatives launched in 
collaboration with the company's suppliers. Organizations 
that implement projects to reduce their environmental 
impact – for example by changing a manufacturing 
process to reduce energy usage or decrease material 
waste – are recognized by Baxter leadership with a 
certificate and award luncheon. Baxter employees who 
submit such stories are also recognized.  
Examples during 2010 included the following:  
• Baxter worked with Veolia Environmental Services to 
recycle and dispose of a pproximately 8,600 anesthetic 
vaporizer devices collected in the United States from Baxter customers at the products' end -of-life. The 
process included the disassembly of device components for recycling, such as circuit boards, alkaline 
batteries, various metals and plastic, and draining and proper disposal of hazardous materials, including a 
Baxter anesthetic agent, from each device. Veolia recycled 87 tons of materials – approximately 90 percent 
of the total weight. Throughout the process, Veolia went abo ve and beyond to enhance their existing health 
and safety programs to cover this recycling operation.  
• Baxter collaborated with Staples Advantage, the business -to-business division of Staples, Inc., to reduce 
energy use and improve recyclability of the comp any's office supplies in the United States. In May, with 
Baxter's support, Staples changed its minimum order requirement for Baxter from $35 to $50, resulting in a 
reduced number of office supply shipments. This change saves approximately 27,000 liters of water, 4.3 
metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent emissions and 2,100 corrugated boxes annually. Baxter and Staples 
Advantage also worked together to modify the Product Alternative Program for 183 commonly used office 
supplies, offering options made of r ecycled materials for 47 of the items. Staples Advantage also recently 
added FSC (Forestry Stewardship Council) —certified paper to Baxter's office supply list at the same price as 
standard copy paper.  
 
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2010 -report/e -impact.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Baxter has recognized the following suppliers through  its e -Impact program:  
2011  
• InterfaceFLOR  
• International Paper  
• Temple Inland  
 
2010  
• Kent State University  
• Staples, Inc.  
• Temple Inland  
• Veolia Environmental Services  
 
2009  
• Lexington Medical  
  
Community 
Support   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/community -support/index.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Community Support  
 
Baxter and i ts employees support communities worldwide through financial contributions, product donations, 
base of the pyramid initiatives and employee volunteerism. Increasing access to healthcare, supporting 
community service and increasing employee engagement in th ese efforts are core principles of Baxter's  
vision and culture.  
Baxter focuses its community support programs in three areas:  
• Access to Healthcare  - Baxter works to improve access to healthcare globally through product development 
and business model improvement, as well as cash, foundation grants and product donation.  
• Critical Community Needs  - Baxter makes financial and in -kind donations to address needs such as improving 
education, protecting the environment and increasing patient safety.  
• Employee Involvement  - Baxter encourages employees to volunteer their time and expertise in their 
communities and matches employees' monetary contributions to eligible U.S. charitable organizations  
throug h The Baxter International Foundation Matching Gifts Program.  
 At Con Nosotros in Cuernavaca, Mexico, children with cerebral palsy and other neuromuscular disabilities receive much -needed 
physical rehabilitation services thanks to a grant from The Baxter International Foundation.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/community -support/index.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Baxter’s efforts around community support benefit people in need worldwide, and strengthen the company's 
business. Supporting these initiatives improves community relations, demonstrates Baxte r's leadership and 
provides opportunities for stakeholder engagement. During 2010, Baxter and The Baxter International 
Foundation gave more than $79 million, including product donations, cash contributions and foundation grants.  
The company has contributed  more than $266 million over the last five years.  
Baxter and the Baxter International Foundation Charitable Giving (Dollars in Millions) * 
 2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  
Product Donations ** 
Products/Patient Assistance Programs  $14.85  $31.09  $10.86  $18.94  $48.09 
Business and Facility Cash Donations  
Within U.S.  $9.14  $9.26  $12.17  $15.29  $14.66  
Outside U.S.  7.36 11.16  16.75  15.11  $12.56  
Subtotal  $16.50  $20.42  $28.92  $30.40  $27.22  
The Baxter International Foundation Contributions  
Within U.S.  $1.29  $1.10  $1.43 $1.10  $1.32  
Outside U.S.  1.86 0.84 1.39 1.21 $1.55  
Matching Gifts & Dollars for Doers  0.60 0.70 0.75 0.76 $0.74  
Prize Programs  0.19 0.21 0.19 0.21 $0.26  
Scholarship Program  0.28 0.26 0.26 0.28 $0.27  
Subtotal  $4.22  $3.09  $4.01  $3.56  $4.14  
Total Char itable Giving  $35.57  $54.60  $43.79  $52.9  $79.45  
*Some subtotals vary slightly from sum of items in category, due to rounding . 
**Includes value of product donations calculated using average sales price (ASP). Variations in Baxter's annual product donations  are due to fluctuations in 
community needs, the regulatory environment, manufacturing processes and marketing. The company identifies opportunities to donate and responds to 
community requests as appropriate. Amount in 2010 reflects change in method of re porting donations through the company’s Patient Assistance Program to ASP, 
and significant donations to assist earthquake victims in Haiti as well as victims of a subsequent cholera outbreak in that country. Data for Patient Assistance 
programs were not re ported until 2007.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/community -support/index.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
View list of countries.  
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -world/access -to-healthcare.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
 
 
 
 
Ineffective infrastructure, political instability, lack of education and poverty continue to limit many people 
around the world from receiving healthcare. Inadequate availability and affordability of  medical products also 
contribute to these challenges. Baxter recognizes that for its access to healthcare strategy to be sustainable,  
it must comprise both a responsible commercial strategy and a charitable product donation component. As a 
global healthc are company focused on innovation, Baxter is committed to increasing access to healthcare 
through product and business model improvements, as well as cash and product donations.  
 
In recognition of Baxter's global reach delivering healthcare products, in 2 010 Baxter changed its approach in 
an effort to improve access to the "base of the pyramid" (BoP).2 The company continued its collaboration with 
Professor Stuart Hart from Cornell University and the Enterprise for a Sustainable World (ESW), refining its 
process to investigate BoP opportunities that more clearly align with Baxter’s business objectives. The team 
considered Baxter's current market experience along with the company's current and emerging technologies to 
understand where the company is currently  close to the BoP or has technology well suited for use in the BoP. 
The resulting analysis of current market experience and technologies will provide a solid foundation for 
identifying future opportunities and approaches to improve access to healthcare for  the BoP.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -world /access -to-healthcare.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Due in part to significant transitions within the company's regional and business organizations, progress on  
this area of Baxter's sustainability program was slower than expected. Changes in management resulted in 
changes in the BoP leadership t eam's composition and also meant that BoP efforts in 2010 were mainly 
focused on engaging senior management and the business teams on what a strategy on addressing 
healthcare needs at the base of the pyramid would entail. With a new team in place and consi derable feedback 
from each of Baxter's BioScience and Medical Products businesses, the team re -aligned its efforts and more 
immediate tasks from what it originally anticipated accomplishing in 2010. In order to work toward solutions for 
the BoP, the team r ealized it needed to better understand challenges related to global healthcare reform and 
continuity of care for patients who currently access Baxter's products and treatments. It also was apparent  
that on a local level, there were many efforts underway t o improve access to care for those in the BoP. 
Consequently, the BoP leadership team is working with ESW to catalog those efforts and learn from them  
in any long -term approach that the company may choose to develop.  
During 2011, the BoP team will take the  following steps:  
• Develop criteria to assess current and future products for relevance to the BoP;  
• Inventory and analyze Baxter's current BoP initiatives; and  
 
Analyze the company's portfolio of emerging technologies for potential fit with BoP needs (in co njunction  
with managers from Baxter corporate and business research & development groups).  
 
During 2010, Baxter continued its major donor partnerships with AmeriCares and Direct Relief International 
(DRI). Baxter collaborates closely with these organizat ions to develop a yearly product donation plan to help 
ensure Baxter's critical healthcare products are available where and when needed. Strategic shipments from 
Baxter made in the spring of 2010 positioned AmeriCares and DRI to pull from inventory and pro vide products 
valued at approximately $70,000 in support of flood relief efforts in Pakistan and India.  
Baxter is among a select group of companies to implement this strategic, proactive approach to product 
donations, which improves the efficiency and effe ctiveness of the overall donation process and eliminates  
"fire drill" responses to disasters. It also reduces waste because AmeriCares and DRI can anticipate what  
to expect from Baxter so are less likely to request unneeded supplies from other companies.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -world /access -to-healthcare.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
In 2010, Baxter's long -standing relationships with these organizations also helped facilitate timely, targeted 
support in response to the January 2010 earthquake and subsequent cholera outbreak in Haiti. Directly after 
the earthquake struck, Baxter work ed closely with DRI to bypass DRI's standard process of shipping products 
to its warehouse in Santa Barbara, California, United States and instead used Baxter's distribution expertise  
to pack and ship six trailer truckloads — more than 11 metric tons — of donated antibiotics, IV solutions and 
other vital products valued at more than $2.2 million directly to Port -au-Prince, Haiti. As a result, Baxter 
products reached patients two weeks sooner than otherwise.  
In October, in the midst of the country's subsequ ent cholera outbreak, Baxter was uniquely positioned to 
provide Iife -saving medical products, including IV solutions and sets used to administer the solutions, to help 
hydrate those affected by waterborne bacteria through a donation to AmeriCares. In total , Baxter's overall 
charitable giving in response to the Haiti earthquake totaled $7.7 million, and the company continues to work 
with these donor partners to assess ongoing relief needs in the country.  
 
1 After further analysis, the Baxter Sustainability Steering Committee decided in 2010 to replace the original goals — “By 2010, assess existing products  
for relevance to the ‘base of the pyramid’ (developing economies) and identify high -impact, economically viable product opportunities” and “Increase R&D 
investment from 2008 to healthcare for the ‘base of the pyramid’” — with this new goal.  
2 The term "base of the pyramid" refers to the approximately 4 billion people who live on less than $1,500 annually and have limited access to the healthcare 
market. Co mpanies developing and marketing products and services have typically overlooked this group, instead targeting people with more money to spend 
at the "top of the pyramid." In recent years, more companies have extended products to the "middle of the pyramid ," often referred to as an "emerging economy" 
strategy.  
 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -world/education.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
 
 
 
 
As a science - and technology -based healthcare company, Baxter has a responsibility and need to ensure  
that current students as well as future generations have the opportunity to learn and be inspired by math and 
science. Baxter’s commitment to education focuses on enhancing local math and science education programs 
to prepare students for scientific careers. The United States is particularly challenged with improving its math 
and science cu rriculum in its schools, and as a Chicago -based company, Baxter decided to focus its 
involvement in the Chicago Public School system.  
 
 
In 2008, Baxter launched Science@Work: Expanding Minds with Real -World Science, a multi -year 
commitment to Chicago Publ ic Schools (CPS) to support teacher training and student development in 
healthcare and biotechnology. The program is the largest corporate donation to biotechnology education  
in CPS history.  
In the 2009 -2010 school year, the program reached more than 32,0 00 students and nearly 300 teachers in  
150 schools. Baxter hosted 22 events for teachers and students including lab tours, lectures, career days and   
 
http:// www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -world/education.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
problem -based learning projects, including an experiment to help students understand how easily bacteri a are 
transferred from humans to objects.  
In 2010, Science@Work achieved a milestone with the opening of Instituto Health Sciences Career Academy 
(IHSCA), a new Chicago high school dedicated to preparing students for healthcare careers. The institution, 
which will serve 600 students when fully enrolled, focuses on providing Latinos with education and preparation 
to pursue professions that meet the nation's healthcare needs. In 2010, Baxter also continued its work with the 
Lindblom Math and Science Academy's  Biotechnology Center of Excellence and the Illinois Institute of 
Technology Instructional Development Program to provide in -depth biotechnology teacher training and lesson 
plans to 90 CPS high school teachers.  
In addition to the direct benefit that Baxter 's investment in the CPS system provides for teachers and  
students, this initiative provides a substantial way for Baxter employees to engage with diverse students and 
bring sustainability to life in the classrooms. In addition to the biotechnology curric ulum, Baxter employees 
have taught students about clean water and other environmental topics, connecting math and science to real 
life environmental challenges. From Baxter's inclusion and talent recruiting perspective, this initiative also 
provides a long er-term view to creating a pipeline of talented young people who may be interested in Baxter 
careers in the future.  
Other STEM Education Initiatives  
 
Junior Achievement  
Baxter supports Junior Achievement, a global organization that teaches students the fun damentals of the free 
market and entrepreneurship throughout the United States and in 122 countries around the world. In 2010,  
401 Baxter volunteers, including the company's senior leaders, spent nearly 1,600 hours teaching financial 
literacy to almost 8, 500 students ages 6 to 15 in classrooms around the world.  
FIRST Robotics  
As a founding member of US FIRST (For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology) Robotics  
in 1992, Baxter continues a long -standing commitment to the organization. This m entor -based engineering 
competition inspires thousands of students across the country to design and build robots that engage in  
sports -like activities. Baxter's Mountain Home, Arkansas, United States team has won numerous awards  
in both national and regi onal competitions.   
 
http:// www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -world/education.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Education Advantage  
In 2010, Baxter continued its sponsorship of Education Advantage, a scholarship program to promote career 
development and encourage proactive health management and community involvement among people with 
hemophilia A, including those with inhibitors, or antibodies against clotting factor. The program, developed with 
input from the hemophilia community, provides academic scholarships and resources for career development, 
healthy lifestyles and community involvement, t ailored to patients’ needs. Education Advantage, open to all 
students with hemophilia A, provides high school General Educational Development (GED) reimbursement, 
community and technical college need -based scholarships up to $2,500 and university need -base d 
scholarships up to $15,000. Strong applicants who do not qualify for need -based aid may still be eligible  
for merit -based scholarships of $1,000 per year.  
Education Advantage is supported by Baxter and independently administered by Scholarship America. 
Scholarship America, the nation’s leading nonprofit scholarship program administrator, is solely responsible  
for reviewing all scholarship applications, determining eligibility and financial need and selecting scholarship 
recipients. Once accepted, schola rship recipients are required to participate in ongoing community service  
and attend regular comprehensive health exams. In 2010, Baxter awarded 33 Education Advantage program 
scholarships, totaling $160,000.  
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/community -support/access -to-healthcare/index.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Access to Healthcare  
Improving access to h ealthcare is a global challenge. The issue is especially complex in developing countries, 
where poor infrastructure, political instability, poverty, lack of education, restrictive regulatory environments, 
and inadequate availability and affordability of me dical products can all limit access. Addressing this challenge 
requires cooperation among governments, non -governmental organizations, corporations, medical 
professionals and others.  
Baxter works to improve access to healthcare globally through:  
• Product Development  
• Base of the Pyramid Initiatives  
• Product Donations  
• The Baxter International Foundation Awards and Grants  
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/community -support/access -to-healthcare/product -development.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Product Development  
Product development is at the core of Baxter's business, with innovation providing a critical engine for future 
growth. Thro ugh individual business units and corporate research & development (R&D), Baxter strives to 
provide new products that will meet the needs of current and future patients. Additionally, the company’s  
Base of the Pyramid initiative strives to better serve th e needs of patients at the lowest end of the economic 
spectrum. Examples  of Baxter product innovation include:  
Developing Healthcare Solutions for Emerging Markets  
In 2009, Baxter introduced the first premixed intravenous (IV) drugs developed at the China Premix R&D 
Centre in Suzhou, China. The facility, opened in 2006, is Baxter’s first premixed drug facility outside the  
United States and Europe. Having an R&D presence in China enables the company to be highly responsive  
to evolving customer needs and de velop and deliver healthcare solutions more quickly and cost effectively.  
In 2010, China’s Premix R&D team was instrumental in the approval and launch of Fluconazole and 
Levofloxacin IV products, and is developing four other premixed drug formulations spe cifically for use in  
China. These high -use molecules in a premixed form provide added convenience for hospital pharmacists  
and help reduce medication errors.  
Advancing Technology for Influenza Vaccination  
For more than 40 years, influenza vaccines have b een made by growing the selected influenza vaccine  
strains in hens’ eggs, which often requires four to six months. This has raised several public health concerns 
given the dependency of both seasonal and pandemic influenza vaccine production on large numb ers of 
suitable eggs and the lengthy production process.  
During the 2009 H1N1 pandemic, Baxter supported public health authorities through the development, 
licensure and delivery of a pandemic vaccine, CELVAPAN H1N1, prepared using Baxter’s novel Vero cell  
technology. This cell culture -based technology enabled Baxter to develop and complete production of initial 
commercial batches of pandemic vaccine within 12 weeks of receipt of the virus strain. Based upon the 
European Medicines Agency (EMA) mock -up licen sure of CELVAPAN in early 2009, CELVAPAN H1N1 
became the first cell culture -based, non -adjuvanted, preservative -free pandemic influenza vaccine to  
receive marketing authorization in the European Union and was licensed in October 2009.  
Subsequently, Baxter  has also extended this technological advantage to seasonal influenza, obtaining 
licensure in selected European countries for PREFLUCEL, Europe’s first widely available seasonal influenza 
vaccine prepared using cell culture technology. Not only was PREFLUC EL shown to be tolerable and 
efficacious in clinical trials, it is free from egg proteins and therefore suitable for adults and the elderly,  
including those with allergies to eggs. Furthermore, PREFLUCEL is prepared using the natural virus –  
with an iden tical protein composition to the virus circulating in nature.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/community -support/access -to-healthcare/ product -development.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Peritoneal Dialysis  
Baxter is the world's leading innovator and supplier of peritoneal dialysis (PD) products for end -stage renal 
disease (ESRD), or kidney failure. PD is a self -administered the rapy that can be managed by patients at home. 
Evidence shows that PD home therapy is generally less expensive than in -center hemodialysis. It can also 
offer improvements in certain quality of life aspects, particularly in emerging economies where many peop le 
with kidney disease go untreated due to expense and lack of access to dialysis treatment centers. Baxter 
works with governments to institute adequate reimbursement for PD therapy and strives to make it cost -
effective and accessible through local manufac turing, home delivery and product innovation.  
Baxter’s Renal Therapy Services (RTS) is a provider of in -center dialysis services in countries such as 
Argentina, Colombia, Ecuador, Guatemala, Turkey and Ireland. The clinics provide innovative, high -quality 
services including pre -dialysis patient management, hemodialysis, PD and follow -up treatment for  
transplant patients.  
At several RTS clinics in Colombia, Baxter has launched a program designed to slow progression of  
chronic kidney disease (CKD). Patients  diagnosed with early -stage CKD work with a multidisciplinary team  
of nephrologists, nutritionists and social workers and take part in an education program that provides guidance 
on reducing their risk for high blood pressure and heart disease. Seventy pe rcent of participants improved  
their blood pressure through the program.  
At Baxter’s PD center in Guatemala City, Guatemala – opened in June of 2010 – nephrologists, psychologists, 
nutritionists as well as specialists in laboratory and home care services provide a comprehensive patient care 
program to approximately 250 ESRD patients. Participants are also encouraged to take part in the center’s 
patient training program for the administration of PD therapy.  
In China, the Dragonfly Program – a community CKD education and intervention initiative organized by  
Baxter China and the Beijing Community Health Service Association – has trained hundreds of community 
doctors in Beijing’s Haidian and Chaoyong districts about CKD and patient care. In 2010, the program 
introduced a referral system for CKD and ESRD patients at Beijing’s community hospitals, to enable  
healthcare professionals to identify CKD patients early as well as provide education and proper treatment  
to people with renal disease. As of the end of 201 0, the Dragonfly Program had trained 200 community  
doctors and identified 1,500 CKD patients from more than 8,000 at -risk individuals.  
See Priority Update: Access to Healthcare for more detail.  
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/community -support/access -to-healthcare/base -of-the-pyramid.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Base of the Pyramid  
Addressing the challenge of access to  healthcare provides an opportunity for companies to deliver healthcare 
solutions specifically for those at the "base of the pyramid" (BoP) who have limited access to the healthcare 
market. The term "base of the pyramid" refers to the roughly four billion people who each live on less than 
$1,500 per year, mostly in developing countries. Many companies develop and market products and services 
for people at the "top of the pyramid," and in recent years, more companies have extended product and  
service offeri ngs to the "middle of the pyramid," often referred to as an "emerging economy" strategy.  
Baxter sees opportunity to reach all levels of the pyramid. The company has worked in emerging economies 
for many years, and recognizes that approaching the "middle" a nd "base" levels requires different strategies 
and partnerships. Developing products and services particularly suited to the BoP is a growing area of the 
company’s sustainability and business strategy.  
See Priority Update: Access to Healthcare for more det ail. 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/community -support/access -to-healthcare/product -donations.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Product Donations  
Baxter donates products to help improve access to healthcare worldwide. In 2010, the company donated  
and shipped more than $48 million in products (including Baxter's patient assistance programs) to assist 
people in need in 84 c ountries (see map). Baxter donates products that recipient organizations have  
requested specifically, including intravenous (IV) solutions, pharmaceuticals and hemophilia products.  
Baxter's Global Community Relations team manages the donations process, g uided by Baxter's Global 
Product Donation Policy, which covers areas such as licensing, expiration and dating, accounting and  
tax laws, and export requirements.  
The Global Community Relations team works with supply chain managers and others at Baxter to i dentify 
opportunities to donate products, matching available inventory to patient need. In some cases, the company 
donates excess products that might be classified as hazardous waste if destroyed, which has the added 
benefit of helping Baxter reduce waste and associated expenses.  
During 2010, Baxter continued its major donor partnerships with AmeriCares and Direct Relief International. 
AmeriCares, an international disaster -relief and humanitarian -aid organization, airlifts critical medicines, 
medical suppli es and other aid to areas suffering humanitarian crises resulting from natural disasters or 
political strife. Direct Relief International, a non -profit, non -sectarian humanitarian -assistance organization, 
provides medical assistance to victims of poverty, disaster and civil unrest. In 2010, the Global Community 
Relations team collaborated with these two organizations – which have complementary missions, yet  
different focus areas and local partnerships – to develop a yearly product donation plan. This will help  
ensure that Baxter contributes most needed products to stabilize supply in least developed and developing 
economies, and that the company’s products are first on the scene following disasters and tragedies.  
Responding to Crises in Haiti, India and Pa kistan  
In 2010, Baxter’s long -standing relationships with these organizations helped facilitate timely, targeted  
support in response to the January 2010 earthquake in central Haiti. Along with grants from The Baxter 
International Foundation and employee c ontributions via Baxter’s Employee Disaster Relief Matching Gift 
Program, the company’s charitable giving in response to the Haiti earthquake and subsequent cholera 
outbreak totaled $7.7 million.  
In addition, Baxter Latin America partnered with the Dominic an Republic Nephrologists Association  
to donate renal supplies to ensure patients in Haiti continued to receive dialysis treatment.  
Strategic shipments from Baxter made in the spring of 2010 positioned AmeriCares and DRI to pull  
from inventory and provid e products valued at approximately $70,000 in support of flood relief efforts  
in Pakistan and India.  
See Priority Update: Access to Healthcare for more detail.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/community -support/access -to-healthcare/product -donations.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  World Federation of Hemophilia Global Alliance for Progress  
Baxter also facilitates access to h ealthcare through support of non -profit organizations such as the World 
Federation of Hemophilia, an international non -profit organization dedicated to improving the lives of people 
with hemophilia and related bleeding disorders. Baxter is the founding mem ber and lead contributor to the 
organization's Global Alliance for Progress (GAP), which works to improve the diagnosis and treatment of 
hemophilia in developing countries. Since its launch in 2003, GAP has diagnosed more than 22,000 patients 
with bleeding  disorders – including 19,000 with hemophilia – in 16 countries, and educated and trained more 
than 13,000 healthcare professionals, regulators and hemophilia team members.  
Through its humanitarian aid partners, the World Federation of Hemophilia and Ameri Cares, Baxter has 
reached those living with hemophilia in underserved countries with much needed factor replacement  
therapy donations valued at approximately $14 million over the past several years.  
(See Case Study: Putting a Face on Baxter’s Product Don ations.)  
Patient Assistance Programs  
Additionally, Baxter contributes products through its patient assistance programs, which provide continued 
access to products when a patient experiences a lapse in insurance coverage or faces other challenges that 
limit access.  
As part of its patient assistance programs Baxter is a long -time supporter of Patient Services, Inc. (PSI),  
a non -profit organization that provides financial assistance to patients with rare disorders to help them retain 
their health insurance co verage. Over the last 12 years, Baxter has contributed more than $6 million to PSI's 
programs that support patients with hemophilia, alpha -1 antitrypsin deficiency (AAT), primary immune disease 
and protein C deficiency. Through these efforts, along with co ntributions made by other corporations, PSI 
assisted more than 850 patients in 2010.  
Baxter recently launched the myPN Support program, a patient assistance program in the United States  
aimed at supporting consumers in need of life -sustaining parenteral n utrition (PN) drug therapy.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/community -support/access -to-healthcare/product -donations.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Other Initiatives  
When health care professionals travel overseas to provide charitable medical care to under -served 
populations, they often work in hospitals and clinics lacking modern surgical suite materials. Baxter's 
BioSurg ery hemostatic and tissue sealant products are some of the most requested Baxter products  
in these situations, and were donated to 29 medical mission trips in 2010. Additionally, anesthesia products 
such as Forane (Isoflurane) are often requested. During 2010, there were 63 shipments to 17 countries  
in support of medical missions through humanitarian aid organization AmeriCares.  
The Global Community Relations team also works closely with the Partnership for Quality Medical Donations 
(PQMD), whose mission is to collaborate with member companies and humanitarian aid organizations that 
share a commitment to advancing effective drug and medical supply donation practices. In 2010, Baxter  
used PQMD as a way to benchmark Baxter’s best practices and disaster resp onse services.  
 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/community -support/access -to-healthcare/baxter -interna tional -foundation.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
The Baxter International Foundation  
The Baxter International Foundation's primary focus is increasing access to healthcare worldwide. In addition, 
the Foundation supports three prize programs recognizing organizations and individuals wh o demonstrate 
excellence in community service and healthcare research, and has a long -standing commitment to the 
education of employees' children through scholarships and matching gifts. In 2010, the Foundation donated  
a total of $4.1 million (actual paym ents, excluding future commitments) in 30 countries. This included  
$1.6 million in grants to organizations outside of the United States, including nearly $750,000 to 766 
organizations through the Foundation's Dollars for Doers and Matching Gifts programs that support  
employees' philanthropic contributions. The majority of the grants were based on recommendations from 
Baxter employees, targeted to improve the quality and accessibility of healthcare for the disadvantaged  
and underserved in local communitie s. 
Grants awarded in 2010 fulfilled local needs to increase access to dental care, mental health, and other 
healthcare services for children, the uninsured, veterans, and the elderly. Recipient organizations included  
the following:  
• Belgium  - VZW Kinderkan kerfonds in Gent, to increase in -home curative and palliative support for children 
suffering from life -threatening and serious chronic diseases, and their families.  
• Guatemala  - Project Safe Passage/Proyecto Camino Seguro in Antigua, to train local women to  promote 
health in the community living around the Guatemala City Municipal Dump, and to increase health education  
for children and parents.  
• India  - AmeriCares in Mumbai, to support a two year pilot project to reduce health disparities within 
communities in the urban slums of Andheri East, through the use of mobile medical vans, patient tracking  
and education.  
• Puerto Rico  - Instituto Psicopedagogico de Puerto Rico, in San Juan, to add an occupational therapist and 
part time pharmacist to the residential c enter for adults with developmental disabilities.  
• United States  - Serenity, Inc. in Mountain Home, Arkansas, to ensure children residing in this domestic 
violence shelter receive necessary physical and mental health services, through the addition of a chil dren’s 
advocate to the staff.  
• United States  - Conejo Free Clinic in Thousand Oaks, California, to expand clinic services in Venture County 
through the addition of an operations manager.  
• United States  - Broward Partnership for the Homeless in Ft. Lauderdale , Florida, to improve and expand 
dental services for the homeless through the addition of a dental hygienist.  
• See a complete list  of recent grants wit h additional detail.   
 
http://www.su stainability.baxter.com/community -support/access -to-healthcare/baxter -international -foundation.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
The Baxter International Foundation sponsors prizes that recognize excellence in community service and 
healthcare research. These are among the most prestigious in the healthcare field.  
Foster G. McGaw Award:  Each year, The Baxter In ternational Foundation, in conjunction with the  
American Hospital Association (AHA) and Health Research & Educational Trust, presents the $100,000  
Foster G. McGaw Award to a healthcare organization that provides innovative programs that improve 
community  health and well -being. In 2010, Allegiance Health in Jackson, Michigan, United States received  
this honor for its broad -based efforts to improve the lives of its most vulnerable community members. 
Allegiance Health is a community -owned, locally governed,  integrated health system that includes more  
than 40 sites of care, including both short -term and long -term acute care hospitals, a network of primary  
care clinics and diagnostic centers, home care and hospice services, a  diabetes center and a wound care  
center. It provides healthcare to 500,000 people in a nine -county area of south central Michigan and is the 
largest employer in the region with 3,700 employees. Allegiance Health was recognized specifically for 
providing five programs that educate and off er wellness opportunities for children and adults.  
William B. Graham Prize:  Working with the Association of University Programs in Health Administration,  
The Baxter International Foundation awards the William B. Graham Prize for Health Services Research t o 
recognize major contributions to public health through innovative research. Uwe E. Reinhardt, Ph.D., the 
James Madison Professor of Political Economy and Professor of Economics at Princeton University, received 
the $50,000 award in 2010 for his expertise  and international experience in monetary and health policy,  
and service on several government commissions and advisory boards, including one established by the  
U.S. Congress to advise on issues related to physician payment. Reinhardt is a member of the Institute of 
Medicine of the U.S. National Academy of Sciences, and in 2006 was appointed to chair the New Jersey  
health reform commission.  
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/community -support/critical -community -needs.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Critical Community Needs  
Baxter helps communities worldwide address a broad range of needs, in addition to acce ss to healthcare. 
These include improving education, reducing medication errors and increasing patient safety, supporting  
youth services, and protecting the environment. Baxter's business units, functions and manufacturing  
facilities contributed $27.2 mi llion in 2010 to targeted organizations and causes worldwide, with nearly  
50% donated outside the United States.  
Highlights from 2010 include:  
World Hemophilia Day:  In April 2010, Baxter observed the 21st anniversary of World Hemophilia Day.  
Since its cr eation in 1989 in honor of the World Federation of Hemophilia's (WFH) founder Frank Schnabel, 
World Hemophilia Day has not only served as a day of celebration for the hemophilia community, but also as 
an opportunity to increase awareness of hemophilia and other bleeding disorders and their impact on the 
global community. Baxter joined forces with the WFH to launch "The Many Faces of Bleeding Disorders – 
United to Achieve Treatment for All" educational video podcast to raise awareness of the impact of bleedi ng 
disorders, including hemophilia, symptomatic carriers of hemophilia, von Willebrand disease, rare factor 
deficiencies and inherited platelet disorders, and to call attention to disparities in care around the world.  
With proper care and treatment, peopl e with bleeding disorders can live longer, more fulfilling lives than ever 
before, but tragically, 75% of people with bleeding disorders do not receive adequate treatment. The podcast 
highlights the concerted effort by the research, medical, advocacy and p atient communities that’s needed to 
ensure broad -based access to care and treatment.  
World Day of Immunology:  The annual World Day of Immunology (WDI) was established through the 
European Federation of Immunological Societies (EFIS) to strengthen public aw areness of immunology by 
creating a bridge between the medical community's growing understanding of the immune system and the 
need for increased public and patient access to information as a basis for individual health and well -being.  
World PI Week:  A coll aborative observation during the week leading up to World Day of Immunology and 
organized by leading immune deficiency societies from every region of the world, was established in 2011  
with support from Baxter. During World PI Week, organizers across the globe joined forces to encourage 
improved awareness and diagnosis among medical professionals and the general public. Events coordinated 
in participating countries included government awareness events, Jeffrey Modell center openings, and more. 
All pointed to the same important message: detecting the disease early can save lives.  
Primary Immunodeficiencies (PI) are hereditary genetic defects in the immune system that cause increased 
susceptibility to a wide range of infections, affecting multiple parts of th e body. These infections are often 
chronic, persistent, recurring, debilitating, and in some cases, fatal. It is estimated that 10 million people suffer 
from PI worldwide, but experts estimate that between 70 –90 percent of PI cases remain undiagnosed. Unli ke 
many other immune -related conditions, effective treatments are available that can manage the disease 
symptoms.  
See Priority Update: Education for more detail.   
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/community -support/employee -involvement.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Employee Involvement  
In 2010, more than 7,850 Baxter employees volunteered more than 163,00 0 hours in their communities, 
helping to address local concerns such as healthcare and education. Employee involvement takes many 
forms, including volunteering at a local school or blood drive, serving at a hospital or food pantry, participating 
in communi ty park clean -up days, or joining a local non -profit board or committee. Employees at each Baxter 
site select volunteer activities to undertake and organizations to support, as they can best determine the  
most relevant and highest impact projects.  
  
 
http://www.susta inability.baxter.com/community -support/employee -involvement.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
In 2010, for example, Baxter Japan committed to a forestation program in which employees and their families 
will plant 2,500 trees in a remote area of Nichinan City and contribute funds to promote forestation in the next 
10 years. Also, Baxter Mexico partnere d with La Casa De Los Mil Colores, a non -profit organization dedicated 
to helping indigenous peoples, to financially support patients with critical medical needs.  
For the past several years, Baxter employees around the world have helped improve communities  by 
volunteering with Habitat for Humanity. Since 2006, Baxter employees in Belgium, Canada, Costa Rica, 
France, India, Ireland, Switzerland and the United States have spent more than 19,000 hours building  
homes for those in need. ( See Case Study: Rebuild ing Lives, One House at a Time.)  
Employees can track their efforts using Baxter's internal volunteerism website. In 2008, the company began  
to recognize employees who volunteer for 40 or more hours of community work during the year. Employees 
who donate 7 5 or more hours a year are eligible for a random drawing in which selected employees choose  
an approved charitable group to which Baxter will donate $1,000 in the employee's name. Thirty employees 
were selected in 2010, out of 540 globally who volunteered  at least 75 hours. Over 900 Baxter employees 
reached either the 40 - or 75 -hour milestones during the year.  
In the United States, The Baxter International Foundation Dollars for Doers program provides grants to 
qualified organizations in which Baxter emplo yees have actively volunteered at least six months of the year. 
Past recipients include hospitals and hospices, humane societies, emergency shelters, historical societies, 
volunteer fire departments, substance -abuse prevention services and youth service or ganizations. In 2010,  
the program provided 71 grants to 48 organizations for a total of $29,025.  
Baxter employees also contribute financial resources to worthy causes. The Baxter International Foundation 
Matching Gift Program matches employee donations of  $25 or more, up to $5,000, to nonprofit, tax -exempt 
U.S. hospitals and healthcare agencies, schools and cultural organizations. In 2010, the foundation matched 
nearly 1,300 qualifying employee donations to contribute a total of $706,910 to organizations i n need.  
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2010- report/habitat -for-humanity.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Case Study: Rebuilding Lives,  
One House at a Time  
Habitat for Humanity is a U.S. -based, non -profit, ecumenical Christian 
Housing Ministry that seeks to eliminate poverty housing and 
homelessness worldwide. Through volunteer labor and donations of 
cash and materials, Habitat builds and rehabilitates simple, affordable 
homes. Since its founding in 1976, the organization has helped build more than 400,000 houses and served more than 2 million people.  
Baxter recognizes the connection between quality housing and health, and provides cash contributions and encourages employee volunteerism to support this important organization. Since 2006, Baxter employees have spent more than 19,000 hours building homes through Habitat. 
Most of the employee support has been centered on building homes  
in the United States, particularly near the company’s headquarters in 
Deerfield, Illinois, United States. Since 2003, Baxter has sponsored six Habitat homes in Lake County, Illinois, United States, and in 2010, the organization honored Baxter with its annual Corporate Sponsorship Award.  
In 2007, employees in Canada, Costa Rica and India began partnering with local Habitat for Humanity affiliates, and since then, Baxter’s work with the organization has become even more global, to also include employees fr om Belgium, France, Ireland and Switzerland. In 2010, for example, more than a dozen Baxter 
employees in India helped to build a new home for a family in Bawana, New Delhi. Bawana, a resettlement colony that shelters the economically underprivileged, is ho me to 10,000 families, most of whom live in  
sub-standard housing and earn less than INR 6,500 (US $133) per month. Baxter India provided the raw 
materials needed to build the home and nearly 85 volunteer hours of labor to clean the area, and prepare  
the ground for and establish the foundation.  
Despite the challenging work, the highlight for every Baxter Habitat for Humanity team is always the heartfelt gratitude from the new homeowners, said Akshay Nanda, finance director for Baxter India, who took part i n  
the Bawana build.  
"It was the most fulfilling and rewarding thing I have ever done in my life," Nanda said. "Intense labor under a 
harsh sun seemed like a miniscule contribution for the pride and gratitude we saw on the homeowner's face.  
It was the mos t enriching experience I could imagine."  
 
 
 
Rob Davis, corporate vice president and 
president of Baxter's Medical Products 
business , is among the senior executives at 
Baxter who participate in Habitat for Humanity 
projects with employees throughout the 
company.   
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2010 -report/product -donations.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
Case Study: Putting a Face on Baxter's 
Product Donations  
The critical nature of Baxter's products, combined with the company's 
global presence, position Baxter as a crucial supplier of medicines, 
medical supplies and other aid following natu ral disasters or political 
strife and to advance patient care worldwide.  
In 2010, Baxter provided $48.1 million in product donations through 
donor partners AmeriCares, Direct Relief International and the  
World Federation of Hemophilia, as well as through the company's  
U.S. patient assistance programs. Baxter donated products in 84 
countries, including $7.7 million worth of antibiotics, intravenous (IV) 
solutions and other vital products to help those affected by the January 
2010 earthquake and subsequent cholera outbreak in central Haiti.  
Three -year-old Rose Geurline from Haiti is one patient whose life was 
saved through Baxter's product donations. When Rose's family brought 
her to a makeshift clinic for cholera patients, she was semiconscious  
and without  a discernable pulse. The healthcare team administered an IV and within seconds, lactacted ringers 
solution – one of several hydration products donated by Baxter through its partnership with Direct Relief 
International – was flowing through the young girl' s body. Three hours later, Rose was sitting up and eating 
crackers, thanks to the healthcare team's quick work and the life -saving treatment donated by Baxter.  
Baxter's factor replacement therapy donations also benefitted a young hemophilia patient in Paki stan during 
the year. Eighteen -year-old Rizwan Ali was riding a motorbike near his village in the northeastern part of the 
country when he collided with an ox cart, sustaining three fractures in his left leg and pelvis as well as a blunt 
injury to his abdo men. When hospital staff couldn't stop the young man's bleeding, an urgent supply of Baxter's 
Hemofil M – a factor VIII therapy donated by the company through AmeriCares and the Pakistan Hemophilia 
Patients Welfare Society – was rushed to the hospital and administered to the patient. After five days of 
treatment his condition stabilized, and a week later Rizwan underwent surgery for the fractures in his left leg. 
After a month in the hospital the young man was discharged to home and began a rehabilitation p rogram.  
While Baxter may not always learn the fate of the patients they have helped through product donation efforts, 
the company is committed to saving and sustaining lives and supporting public health in times of need, said 
Curt Welling, President and CE O of AmeriCares.  
"AmeriCares has worked closely with Baxter for nearly 25 years, responding to health care needs around  
the world," Welling said. "They have always been generous with their products and understand the value of 
providing lifesaving aid to t he world's most vulnerable populations."  
 
 
Following the Haiti earthquake in 2010, Baxter 
donated intravenous solutions and other 
critical products to aid victims, many of whom 
were housed in makeshift shelters like this 
one. (Photo by Alison Wright, courtesy of 
Direct Relief International).   
Public Policy   
 
http://www.sust ainability.baxter.com/public -policy/index.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Public Policy  
 
Many legislative issues affect Baxter's business - reimbursement, tax, trade and a variety of regulatory  
concerns. Baxter's Government Affairs and Public Policy (GAPP) team works with lawmakers, governments 
and policymakers around the globe to support patient access to the company's life -saving therapies, increase 
understanding of the benefits of those thera pies, address barriers to care and explore possible solutions. This 
work involves dealing directly with governments to improve the regulatory environment and reimbursement 
structure for Baxter's therapies, and collaborating with clinicians, non -governmenta l organizations and patient 
groups on coordinated efforts to increase access to care for millions of patients worldwide.  
The Public Policy Committee of Baxter's Board of Directors oversees Baxter's government affairs activities. 
The committee reviews Baxte r's political contributions, positions on pending legislation and political advocacy 
activities. For additional information on Baxter's government affairs activities, please refer to Baxter's 2010 
Political Contributions Report. This report includes detail s about contributions made by Baxter and Baxter's 
Political Action Committee, BAXPAC, in 2010 as well as information about Baxter's  membership in certain 
trade and industry groups.  
 As president of the World Federation of Hemophilia (WFH), Mark Skinner is a tireless advocate for treatment for all people living 
with bleeding disorders. Baxter is the founding sponsor of the WFH's Global Alliance for Progress program  that seeks to close the 
gap between developed and developing countries in diagnosing and treating hemophilia and other inherited bleeding disorders.   
 
http://www.sust ainability.baxter.com/public -policy/index.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Healthcare Reform  
Healthcare reform efforts around the world seek to expa nd access to healthcare and reduce costs. In the 
United States, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, signed into law in March 2010, contains several 
provisions that impact Baxter’s business. Most significant are increased rebates to state Medica id programs  
for some of the company’s drugs and biologics, and expansion of the 340B Drug Pricing Program, which raises 
the potential number of healthcare providers that qualify for discounts on drugs provided to Medicaid patients. 
Baxter also will be req uired to pay a tax on the sale of its pharmaceutical products to the government 
beginning in 2011, and on certain medical devices beginning in 2013.  
Baxter's U.S. GAPP organization was closely involved in the healthcare reform debate in Congress and its 
potential implications for Baxter. On parts of the legislation, the company worked with biotechnology and other 
industry groups to educate policymakers regarding potential impacts on manufacturers, their customers and 
their patients. Because of the unique na ture of Baxter's products and how they are used and administered 
(largely infused or injected to treat rare, life -threatening chronic diseases) compared to traditional 
pharmaceutical products, it was particularly important for Baxter to attempt to mitigate  any unintended  
negative consequences for its patients.  
In 2010, Baxter supported efforts to expand access to health insurance for patients with high -cost chronic 
diseases, such as hemophilia, through high -risk pools. The Patient Protection and Affordable  Care Act 
provides federal funding for such pools to cover patients with medical conditions who might otherwise be 
denied coverage by private insurers until 2014, when the law will prohibit insurers from refusing coverage  
to patients with pre -existing con ditions. While risk pools will be available in every state, the mechanisms for 
coverage will vary and are still taking shape. Baxter is working to help ensure these pools will accommodate 
patients with rare chronic diseases without assessing unreasonably h igh co -pays or premiums.  
To further assist patients and customers in implementing healthcare reform at the state level, Baxter created a 
24/7 access Internet tool that has been added to the company’s patient and customer -focused websites below. 
These sites  provide specific information for patients living with hemophilia and end -stage renal disease, as  
well as hospital customers:  
• Hemophilia  
• Acute and Ambulatory Centers  
• End Stage Renal Disease   
 
http://www.sust ainability.baxter.com/public -policy/index.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
Canada Experience Helps Shape Taiwan Policy for  
Treating ESRD Patients  
 
As a leading provider of products for peritoneal dialysis (PD), the predominant home -dialysis therapy for 
patients with end -stage renal disease (ESRD), or irreversible kidney failure, Baxter works with governments 
around the world to increase acc ess to PD. This can provide cost and quality -of-life benefits compared to  
in-center dialysis.  
In 2010, the Taiwan government was studying policy options to most effectively treat its ESRD patients.  
To support an evidence -based dialogue on this issue, Bax ter’s GAPP organization in Taiwan convened a 
roundtable discussion for representatives of the Ministry of Health and the Bureau of National Health Insurance 
with Canadian nephrologist Paul Tam. Dr. Tam shared the experiences he had in Ontario, Canada, wher e in 
2009 the provincial government announced a target to have at least 35% of all dialysis patients use PD. 
Baxter’s GAPP organization in Canada had worked with the government in Ontario to help shape its policies, 
which have produced positive patient out comes. Drawing on the experience in Ontario, the Taiwanese 
Department of Health adopted a similar policy to increase the use of PD.  
Increasing Access to Hemophilia Therapy  
 
In China, most people with hemophilia do not receive adequate treatment. In fact, m ost are not even 
diagnosed. Baxter is lending its expertise in hemophilia therapy to the China Ministry of Health in support of  
a nationwide initiative to improve the country’s hemophilia diagnosis and treatment capabilities. The program 
includes the crea tion of a nationwide hemophilia patient registry, hemophilia management centers and the 
improvement of standards for hemophilia diagnosis and treatment. In 2010, China established its first 
hemophilia patient registry, with an initial 8,000 patients.  
In Me xico, Baxter also played a supportive role in a government initiative to increase access to hemophilia 
care. The company worked with the Mexican Hemophilia Federation to advocate for greater hemophilia 
therapy coverage in the Catastrophic Disease category of Mexico’s Seguro Popular national insurance 
program. Starting in 2011, Seguro Popular began covering treatment for children under 10 years old with 
hemophilia A or von Willebrand disease. The program already covered children over 10 years old, who  
will continue to be covered for their hemophilia treatment.  
  
 
http://www.sust ainability.baxter.com/public -policy/index.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Influencing Infection Control Guidelines in Australia  
 
Healthcare -associated infections (HAIs), also known as nosocomial infections, are infections that patients get 
while in a hospital or other heal thcare facility. HAIs lead to increased treatment costs and lengths of stay. HAIs 
can be prevented through various means, such as rigorous hand hygiene and aseptic techniques. Certain 
healthcare technologies and products also can play a role. Closed intrav enous (IV) medication delivery 
systems and premixed products, for example, have a proven record of reducing bloodstream infections,  
a common type of HAI.  
In 2010, Australia’s National Health and Medical Research Council, and the Australian Commission on Q uality 
and Safety in Healthcare, jointly released the official Australian Guidelines for the Prevention and Control  
of Infection in Healthcare. Baxter’s GAPP organization in Australia provided evidence -based input into the  
draft guidelines. This included  roundtable discussions with healthcare professionals and government 
representatives, visits by key stakeholders to Baxter’s manufacturing facility in Sydney where the company 
produces closed IV delivery systems for Australian hospitals, and publication of  various white papers on 
reducing HAIs. The final guidelines were published in October, outlining standard precautions and steps, 
including standard practices for use of closed IV delivery systems to prevent and reduce infections.  
Baxter and its employees also lend their voices to discussion of industry issues that affect Baxter and its 
customers through membership in many professional, industry and business organizations, covering a  
variety of geographic areas, diseases, markets  and topics.  
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/political -contribution -report.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
2010 Polit ical Contributions Report  
Every country has different laws about taking part in the political process. Baxter respects local political 
customs and obeys all laws. The company’s Code of Conduct, which sets forth the core principles that  
govern Baxter’s bus iness practices, contains a section on Public Affairs and Political Activities, including rules 
governing participation in the political process, who to contact with questions and other information in this area.  
The Public Policy Committee of Baxter's Boar d of Directors oversees Baxter's government affairs activities. 
The Committee reviews Baxter's political contributions, positions on pending legislative and other initiatives, 
and political advocacy.  
This page provides information about contributions made in the United States by Baxter on a corporate level  
as well as through Baxter's Political Action Committee, BAXPAC. It also includes information about Baxter's 
membership in trade and industry groups.  
• Corporate Contributions  
• Baxter Political Action Commit tee 
• Lobbying Expenses  
• Certain Memberships  
 
Corporate Contributions  
In the United States, Baxter contributed $21,300 to state candidates in 2010. U.S. law does not allow 
companies to make contributions to federal candidates. As discussed below, contribution s to federal 
candidates may be made by BAXPAC. Baxter strives to make contributions to candidates who champion  
and protect the legislative interests of Baxter, its employees and patients.  
 
Baxter’s Corporate Contributions to U.S. State Candidates, 2010  
Member  District  Party  Amount  
Arkansas  
Beebe, Mike  Gov.  D $2,000  
Bookout, Paul  S-14 D $500  
Moore, Robert  H-12 D $500  
Florida  
Altman, Thad  S-24 R $500  
Cannon, Dean  H-35 R $500  
Dorwoth, Chris  H-34 R $500   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/political -contribution -report.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights  Reserved.  Grimsley, Denise  H-77 R $500  
Negron, Joe  S-28 R $500  
Procter, William  H-20 R $500  
Thrasher, John  S-8 R $500  
Weatherford, Will  H-61 R $500  
Georgia  
Byrd, Charlice  H-20 R $500  
Channel, Mickey  H-116 R $500  
Cooper, Sharon  H-41 R $500  
Unterman, Rene  S-45 R $500  
Illinois  
Althoff, Pamela  S-32 R $250  
Duffy, Dan  S-26 R $500  
Feigenholtz, Sara  H-12 D $250  
Link, Terry  S-30 D $500  
Madigan, Michael J.  H-22 D $1,000  
Mathias, Sidney  H-53 R $250  
Mendoza, Susana  H-1 D $500  
Mulligan, Rosemary  H-65 R $250  
Osmond, JoAnn  H-61 R $500  
Pritchard. Robert  H-70 R $300  
Radogno, Christine  S-41 D $1,000  
Risinger, Dale  S-37 R $250  
Sullivan, Eddie  H-51 R $500  
Trotter, Donne E.  S-17 D $500  
Washington, Eddie  H-60 D $500  
Winters. Dave  H-68 R $250  
Mississippi  
Bryan, Hob  S-7 D $500   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/political -contribution -report.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights  Reserved.  Coleman, Linda  H-29 D $500  
Holland, Steve  H-16 D $500  
Norquist, Dave  H-28 D $500  
Simmons, Willie  S-16 D $500  
Watson, Percy  H-103 D $500  
Washington  
Brandland, Dale  S-42 R $500  
Cody, Eileen  H-34 D $500  
Ericksen, Doug  H-42 R $500  
Linville, Kelli  H-41 D $500  
Total    $21,300  
 
 
 
 
Baxter's Corporate Contributions to 501(C)(4) and 527 Organizations, 2010  
 
Membership in 501(c)(4) and 527 organizations is another avenue through which the GAPP team engages  
to advance the company's interests and those of its patients.  
 
Through its GAPP te am, Baxter contributed $32,500* to Third Way, a 501(c)(4) organization, in 2010.  
 
Through its GAPP team, Baxter contributed $50,000 to the following 527 organizations during 2010.  
 
Democratic Governors Association  $25,000  
Republican Governors Association  $25,000  
Total*  $50,000  
* Only includes groups for which GAPP pays the annual dues.  
  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/political -contribution -report.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights  Reserved.   
Baxter Political Action Committee  
 
Eligible U.S. employees can make voluntary individual contributions to Baxter's Political Action Committee, 
BAXPAC, to support U.S. c ongressional and state candidates. BAXPAC strives to contribute to candidates 
who champion and protect the legislative interests of Baxter, its employees and its patients. BAXPAC  
is overseen by the BAXPAC Chairman, Vice Chair, and Treasurer/Secretary, as well as its Contribution  
Advisory Board. All BAXPAC officers and members of the Contribution Advisory Board are Baxter employees. 
BAXPAC operates in accordance with all relevant federal and state laws. More information about BAXPAC  
is available on the we bsite of the Federal Election Commission at www.fec.gov . BAXPAC made $128,000  
in contributions in 2010.  
 
BAXPAC Contributions to U.S. Federal and State Candidates, 2010  
Member  Federal 
House  Federal 
Senate  State 
Candidate  District  Party  Amount  
Arkansas  
Lincoln, Blanche   X  n/a D $1,000  
California  
Campbell, John  X   48 R $1,000  
Matsui, Doris  X   5 D $1,000  
McCarthy, Kevin  X   22 R $1,000  
Schiff, Adam  X   29 D $2,000  
Colorado  
DeGette, Diana  X   1 D $2,000  
Iowa  
Grassley, Chuck   X  n/a R $1,000  
Illinois  
Dold, Robert  X   10 R $1,000  
Kirk, Mark   X  n/a R $5,000  
Roskam, Peter  X   6 R $2,000  
Shimkus, John  X   19 R $6,000  
Indiana  
Hill, Baron  X   9 D $1,000   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/political -contribution -report.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights  Reserved.   
Maryland  
Hoyer, Steny  X   5 D $2,500  
Michigan  
Camp, Dave  X   4 R $3,000  
Dingell, John  X   15 D $1,000  
Rogers, Mike  X   8 R $1,000  
Upton, Fred  X   6 R $1,000  
Mississippi  
Wicker, Roger   X  n/a R $1,000  
North Carolina  
Burr, Richard   X  n/a R $1,000  
Myrick, Sue  X   9 R $500  
North Dakota  
Conrad, Kent   X  n/a D $1,000  
Pomeroy, Earl  X   1 D $1,000  
New Jersey  
Adler, John  X   3 D $1,000  
Pallone, Frank  X   6 D $2,000  
Pascrell, William  X   8 D $1,000  
New York  
Lee, Christopher  X   26 R $2,000  
Ohio  
Boehner, John  X   8 R $1,000  
Pennsylvania  
Corman, Jacob    X 34 R $500  
Dermody, Frank    X 33 D $500  
Eachus, Todd    X 116 D $500  
Pileggi, Dominic    X 9 R $500   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/political -contribution -report.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights  Reserved.  Scarnati, Joseph    X 25 R $500  
Tennessee  
Alexander, Lamar   X  n/a R $1,000  
Texas  
Brady, Kevin  X   8 R $1,000  
Burgess, Michael  X   26 R $2,000  
Utah  
Hatch, Orrin   X  n/a R $2,000 
Virginia  
Cantor, Eric  X   7 R $5,000  
Wisconsin  
Kind, Ron  X   3 D $2,000  
Washington  
Larsen, Rick  X   2 D $1,000  
Total       $60,500  
 
Other BAXPAC Contributions, 2010  
Payee  Amount  
Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee  $20,000  
Democratic Se natorial Campaign Committee  $5,000  
Long Leaf Pine PAC  $1,000  
Tenn PAC  $1,000  
Trust PAC  $1,000  
John S. Fund  $2,000  
New Democratic Coalition PAC  $5,000  
Common Values PAC  $1,500  
NEW PAC  $1,000  
National Republican Senatorial Committee  $30,000  
Total  $67,500  
  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/political -contribution -report.html  
© Copyright 2011 Baxter International Inc. All Rights  Reserved.   
Lobbying Expenses  
In 2010, Baxter spent approximately $3,431,000 on federal lobbying -related activities in the United States,  
to promote policies that support the company's objectives. This amount includes the salaries and overhead 
expenses of B axter employees dedicated to this area, the value of time and related expenses of internal 
partners (such as corporate counsel), payments to external consultants and external lobbyists, and trade 
association dues used for lobbying. Baxter adheres to all fe deral, state and local laws to ensure compliance  
in this area. Outside the United States, Baxter complies with all applicable laws and regulations.  
Certain Memberships  
Baxter maintains memberships in numerous industry and trade groups including organizati ons that engage in 
lobbying activity. The table below includes the amount that Baxter has been notified has been spent on political 
activity during 2010 by any organization to which to the best of its knowledge Baxter paid more than $50,000  
in dues or oth erwise during the year. Baxter believes that membership in these organizations is generally 
consistent with the company's interests as well as those of its shareholders, customers and patients. Even 
when Baxter does not share all of the views of one of the se organizations, it believes that membership is 
worthwhile because such organizations encourage dialogue on important policy issues and help to move  
the industry to a consensus on such issues.  
Political Expenditures by Certain U.S. -based Trade Associatio ns, 2010*  
AdvaMed  $15,600  
Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO)  $138,700  
California Healthcare Institute  $6,250  
Healthcare Leadership Council  $54,000  
Kidney Care Partners  $69,000  
National Hemophilia Foundation  $5,000  
Plasma Protein Therapeutics Association (PPTA)  $2,812  
*Only includes groups of which GAPP is aware. These dues are paid by Baxter’s businesses and not by GAPP.  
 
View Baxter's 2009 Political Contributions Report and 2008 Political Contributions Report.  