Sustainability at Baxter  
	  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/chairman -ceo-letter .html 
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    2 From the Chairman and CEO  
 
Dear Stakeholders,  
Baxter’s aspirations as a healthcare company are tightly interwoven with our sustainability priorities. Just as our mission i s to save and 
sustain lives, we are committed to helping our many global stakeho lders thrive by creating lasting social, environmental and economic 
value in how we do business.  
Baxter serves a broad array of constituencies: patients and healthcare professionals; governments and payors; investors; empl oyees; 
and the communities where w e do business. Our goal is to operate responsibly and effectively in service to all these groups as we 
advance the frontiers of patient health and increase the availability of our products globally. This supports our own sustain ability as an 
enterprise and  our ability to deliver on our priorities for years to come. 
Sustainability encompasses virtually every aspect of how we do business, influencing our standards of ethics and compliance, our 
efforts to drive a sustainable supply chain, and our emphasis on m aintaining an inclusive culture where our diverse employee 
population can pursue meaningful work and rewarding careers.  
In the current economic and healthcare climate, where governments are challenged to accomplish more with strained resources, one 
of Baxt er’s most critical objectives is exploring new ways to expand access to quality care. Our efforts have led to a number of 
innovative public -private partnerships designed to help governments control costs while increasing patient access and improving 
health outcomes. In 2012 Baxter initiated many such partnerships, including a collaboration in Brazil that will meaningfully increas e the 
availability of recombinant therapy for hemophilia patients while also creating local economic opportunity; and new alliance s in China 
and Thailand that will bring dialysis therapy to more end -stage renal disease patients.  
We also continue to integrate sustainability considerations across our operations and throughout the life cycle of our produc ts. This 
includes reducing our carbon footprint at facilities worldwide through recent measures such as our use of biomass energy in India; the installation of energy cogeneration and trigeneration units in Ireland, Belgium, Spain and Australia; and the installation in  Malta of 
Baxter’s largest solar photovoltaic system to date. Thanks to fresh thinking like this, I am pleased to report that our 2015 goal of u sing 
20% renewable power in our facilities has been achieved – in fact, exceeded – three years early, and we have no intention of s lowing 
down.  
Our sustainability goals must continually reflect our business strategies in light of new opportunities, challenges and stake holder 
needs in a changing world. In 2007 our executive Sustainability Steering Committee outlined a range of prioriti es to accomplish by 
2015. We are now in the process of establishing our priorities for 2020, making sure our ongoing focus is in line with our ab ility to 
achieve the greatest impact.
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/chairman -ceo-letter.html 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/baxters -approach.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    3 I want to thank the many Baxter employees worldwide whose leadership and ingenuity are fostering today’s successes, and whose 
passion will spark continued progress. Thanks as well to the many stakeholders whose needs and priorities point the way to fu ture 
innovation.  
Robert L. Parkinson, Jr.  
 Chairman and Chief Executive Office r  
July 2013 
Baxter's Approach  
How nations, companies and individuals respond to sustainability challenges such as climate change, natural resource scarcity , 
corruption, unequal access to healthcare and inadequate educational opportunities will impact life  in the 21st century and beyond. 
Baxter strives to demonstrate its leadership, values and commitment through its actions to address these pressing issues.  
At Baxter, sustainability is a core element of the company’s vision to build a truly great company by  providing sustainable value for all 
stakeholders. Baxter’s sustainability initiatives support the company’s mission to apply innovative science in the developmen t of 
medical products and specialty therapies that save and sustain patients' lives. As sustai nability is inherently broad, Baxter’s efforts 
cover a wide range of areas, but all are designed to contribute to the value creation for all stakeholders. See Stakeholder Engagement . 
Baxter’s sustainability strategy is further defined by its nine priorities that focus its efforts for generating sustainable value to its 
stakeholders. Additionally, these nine sustainability priorities have corresponding goals for 2 015, divided into three broad categories: 
Our People, Our Operations and Products, and Our World. See Priorities and Goals for detail.  
Managing Sustainability  
Baxter's executi ve-level Sustainability Steering Committee oversees the company’s sustainability strategy and leads Baxter’s efforts to 
integrate sustainability into its current activities and long -term strategic planning process. The committee's role is to:  
• Assess global  challenges, opportunities and emerging issues associated with sustainability and set and adjust the company’s 
sustainability strategy as needed;  
• Establish and implement the company’s sustainability priorities and goals, track progress, drive organizational accountability and 
recognize individual and team accomplishments;  
• Recommend actions to continually enhance Baxter's sustainability program and provide progress updates to se nior 
management, including annual updates to the Public Policy Committee of Baxter’s Board of Directors  
• Guide and inform Baxter's sustainability reporting;  
• Solicit stakeholder feedback  and review stakeholder inquiries as appropriat e
The committee's executive sponsor is Baxter's vice president, Manufacturing and Supply Chain – Medical Products, and the 
company's vice president of Environment, Health and Safety ser ves as committee chair. The committee includes senior 
representatives from Baxter’s BioScience, Medical Products, International, Corporate Communications, Ethics and Compliance, 
Finance, Human Resources, Manufacturing, Research and Development, and Supply Chain organizations.  
Committee members sponsor Baxter's sustainability priorities. Each sponsor is accountable for developing goals in his or her 
respective area, and leads a global, multi -functional team to implement related initiatives.  
The committee mee ts quarterly to review progress and to discuss how to address performance gaps. These meetings often feature 
outside sustainability experts to contribute independent input and perspectives. Additional groups provide input to the commi ttee as 
needed. In 201 3, the committee is undertaking strategic planning to assess its current sustainability goals, review and define Baxter’s 
material issues (based on relevance to Baxter and impact on the company) and will establish the company’s next set of long -term 
(2020) sustainability goals.  	  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/baxters -approach.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    4  
	  
How Sustainability Strengthens Baxter's Business  
Baxter’s sustainability initiatives create business value, from attracting and retaining key talent, engaging employees, and reducing 
operating expense, to ensuring market access, developing new markets, meeting stakeholder expectations, and enhancing Baxter's 
reputation. See more detail in Business Value . 
 
History in Sustainabi lity 
Baxter’s commitment to sustainability spans decades. Milestones have included:  
• Established its first formal environmental program, policy and energy conservation initiatives in 1977;  
• Established The Baxter International Foundation in 1986;  
• Worked to r educe use of packaging materials, decrease water consumption and waste generation since 1988;  
• Published the company’s first formal ethics manual in 1989;  
• Introduced Baxter’s work/life benefit program in 1991;  
• Established the Corporate Responsibility Office  to oversee the company’s ethics and compliance practices in 1993;  
• Developed Baxter’s Global Business Practice Standards for Suppliers in 2001;  
• Commenced Baxter’s Product Sustainability Review process in 2002; 
• Established the company’s Sustainability Steer ing Committee in 2007;  
• Defined 2015 sustainability goals in 2008; and  
• Earned Carbon Reduction certification for the first medical product from the Carbon Trust in 2010.  
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/stakeholder -engagement.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    5 Stakeholder Engagement  
Stakeholders play an essential role in Baxter's continued succes s, and the company takes their varied perspectives into account.  
Baxter engages stakeholders worldwide to share information, discuss the company’s sustainability priorities, programs and 
performance, and determine opportunities to collaborate and to pursue  common goals. Operating responsibly and addressing the 
needs of these distinct yet interconnected groups helps Baxter maintain the commercial success that enables the company to de liver 
on its sustainability priorities.  
The company’s five primary stakehol der groups, and the value that Baxter provides each, include the following : 
• Patients and healthcare professionals  – Improving and maintaining access to Baxter’s life -saving and sustaining products, 
therapies and services, and providing products with strong  environmental performance;  
• Baxter employees  – Working to protect safety and improve health, creating an inclusive workplace and a diverse workforce, and 
providing employees with professional growth opportunities;  
• Communities  – Expanding collaborations and  partnerships worldwide, contributing to economic growth, and helping address key 
public health needs;  
• Governments and payers  – Providing cost -effective healthcare solutions and collaborating with governments to provide long -term 
solutions to complex healt hcare challenges; and 
• Shareholders – Creating an d maintaining shareholder value .
Baxter engages with stakeholders on key aspects of its business and products. The table below describes how the company engag es 
with each.  
Baxter also has relationships with numerous organizations that focus on various aspects of sustainability. See Affiliations and 
Memberships  and Environment, Health and Safety  for further details.  
For example, Baxter is a member of Ceres , an organization that advocates for sustainability leadership, bringing together a n etwork of 
companies, investors, and public advocacy groups to expand the adoption of sustainable business practices and solutions to bu ild a 
healthy economy. Baxter has been a member of the Ceres network of companies since 1997, and has committed to work w ith Ceres 
on its sustainability performance and disclosure. The Ceres stakeholder team designated to work with Baxter is an independent  group 
of individuals drawn primarily from the Ceres coalition and represents a range of constituencies that have experti se in environmental, 
social and governance issues. As in past years, the Ceres stakeholder team provided input on draft sections of this report. S ee 
Feedback on 2011 Report  for detail.  
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/stakeholder -engagement.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    6 Channels of Engagement  Example  
• Board and committee meetings  
• Educational campaigns  
• Industry events  
• Collaborative lobbying on issues of 
mutual concern  • Baxter sponsored the first -ever Parenteral Nutrition Safety Summit in 2011, which 
addressed safety concerns related to nutrition product shortages.  
• Baxter is on the Corporate Council of the Center for Health and the Global 
Environment. The center's Biodiversity and Human Health Program informs 
policymakers and educates the public about the importance of preserving 
biodiversity through the lens of human health. 
Employees: Approximately 50,800 worldwide  
Channels of Engagement  Example  
• Town hall meetings, webcasts, and 
“Lunch and Learn” events on topics 
including health/well -being, public policy 
and others  
• Employee surveys  
• Business Resource Groups (BRGs)  
• Baxter I ntranet, employee newsletter and 
other communications  
• Works councils, facility health and safety 
committees, and employee groups that • Baxter’s annual World Environment Week engages and educates employees 
worldwide on environmental sustainability issues.  
• Baxter’s Exercise Challenge Month each May encou rages employees to live 
healthier lifestyles.  
• Baxter encourages employees to volunteer in community outreach efforts.  
• Baxter’s focus on global inclusion helps Baxter attract, engage and retain 
employees of diverse backgrounds.  PATIENTS/HEALTHCARE PROVIDERS  
Patients : Patients worldwide with cancer, hemophilia, immune disorders, infectious diseases, kidney disease, trauma and other 
conditions, as well as patient -advocacy groups.  
Channels of Engagement  Example  
• Product donations and grants  
• Patient websites (i.e., There For You)   
• Patient surveys and studies 
• Educational initiatives  • Baxter supports programs through patient -advocacy groups, such as CEAPIR 
(European Kidney Patients’ Federation), the European Hemophilia Consortium  
and the World Federation of Hemophilia Global Alliance for Progress program . 
• Since 2011, Baxter has hosted the European Jeffrey Modell Centr e Network 
Meeting;  a forum to share best practices about primary immunodeficiency and 
newborn screening.  
• Baxter has provided grants to The Albert Schweitzer Fellowship , which supports 
underserved patient populations . 
Customers: Includes healthcare professionals, hospitals/clinics, kidney dialysis centers, medical research centers, nursing homes 
and rehabilitation centers.  
Channels of Engagement  Example  
• Customer product training and continuing 
education programs  
• Custome r requests for proposal (RFPs)  
• Participation in professional organizations  
• Customer service and clinical helplines  
• Customer publications and presentations 
• Customer satisfaction surveys  
• Baxter participation at conferences  • Baxter provides customers inform ation about product and company sustainability 
performance when requested through RFPs or other channels . 
• Baxter Canada supports the Canadian Institute of Nutrition Excellence workshops 
for clinicians.  
Industry Organizations:  Includes AdvaMed, BIOTECanada,  Biotechnology Industry Organization, EuropaBio, European Federation 
of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations, Plasma Protein Therapeutics Association and numerous physician organizations.  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/stakeholder -engagement.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    7 implement community outreach activities  
• Code of Conduct  
• Ethics and Compliance Helpline  
• Regional Ethics and Compliance 
Committees  
• Certificate of Integrity and Compliance  
• Baxter Political Action Committee  
Communities:  Baxter condu cts business in more than 100 countries and operates manufacturing facilities in 27  
Channels of Engagement  Example  
• Involvement in community organizations  
• Empl oyee volunteer efforts  
• Collaboration with international health 
and aid organizations  
• Employee participation on boards and 
leadership in local and national 
organizations  
 • Baxter employees volunteer in local organizations including as part of Baxter’s 
Science@Work program , delivering professional development to Chicago Public 
Schools teachers and biotechnology education to students. 
• Baxter’s facilities in Asia Pacific organize activities each year for Make a 
Meaningful Difference Month to enc ourage employee volunteerism in local 
communities.  
• Baxter supports Health Partners International of Canada’s five -year Capacity 
Building and Access to Medicines project, sending donated IV solutions to 
Afghanistan.  
• Baxter awards the Foster McGaw Prize each year to a U.S. hospital that 
significantly improves the health and wellbeing of patients in its community 
through innovative programs.  
• Baxter is working with communitie s on two watershed projects to provide access 
to clean water in the Phillippines and Mexico . 
Universities/Academia:  The Center for Corporate Citizenship at Boston College, Cornell University Johnson School of Management, 
Cranfield University (UK), Illinois Institute of Technology, Northwestern University, and University of Wisconsin.  
Channels of Engagement  Example  
• Involvement with K -12 schools and 
universities  
• Forums on sustainability and climate 
change  
• Information sharing about 
sustainability with admi nistration, 
faculty and students  
• Select projects and student research  
• R&D collaboration with universities  • Baxter supports the Illinois Institute of Technology Math and Science Education 
Department  with b iotechnology teacher training and materials.  
• Baxter partners with Northwestern University’s Office of STEM Education and 
Programming to host symposia on biotechnology for Chicago Public Schools 
teachers district -wide.  
• Baxter contributes financially to the Chicago Botanic Garden Plant Science 
Center , which provides laboratories and teaching facilities to more than 200 Ph.D. 
scientists, land managers, students and interns. 
• Baxter provides grants  to fund early stage technology development. 
• Convenes academic leaders and researchers to serve as advisors or consultants 
on specific sustainability and scientific issues, such as public policy , animal 
welfare and Base of the Pyramid . 
• Baxter sponsors Howard University’s 21st Century Advantage Program.  
Non-Governmental and Other Org anizations: Examples include AmeriCares, Ceres, Compliance and Ethical Leadership 
Council, Direct Relief International, Center for Climate and Energy Solutions, and World Health Organization.  
Channels of Engagement  Example  
• Pre-publication review of secti ons of 
Baxter’s 2012 Sustainability Report  
• Participation on various committees  
• Attendance and presentations at • Baxter participates in an annual call with Ceres stakeholders to review 
sustainability report conte nt.  
• Baxter contributes to various white papers and reports issued by non -
governmental organizations.  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/stakeholder -engagement.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    8 sustainability -related conferences 
and events  • Baxter participates in educational and networking webinars to share best 
practices and expertise.  
• Baxter provides input into new sustainability reportin g guidelines and standards 
such as the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board.  
Governments/Payers:  Examples include City of Chicago, Committee for Medical Products for Human Use (CHMP; Europe), 
European Medicines Valuation Agency, European Commission, European Parliament, State of Illinois, U.S. Center for 
Medicare/Medicaid, U.S. Department of Agriculture, U.S. Department of Defense, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, 
U.S. Department of Labor, U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration, ministries of health, and environment, health and safety agencies worldwide.  
Channels of Engagement  Example  
• Representation on advisory 
committees  
• Meetings, conferences, partnerships 
and collaborat ions  
• Communication of studies that 
demonstrate health and economic 
benefits of Baxter’s products  
• Communication of sustainability 
programs and initiatives  
• Lobbying activities  
• Visits to Baxter facilities by 
government officials  
• Collaborate to achieve re newable 
energy goals and advance access to 
healthcare  • Baxter supports legislation/regulation that aligns with the company’s business and 
sustainability objectives . 
• Baxter UK’s Evolving Health  program works with the National Health Service to 
bring quality care and efficiency to patients. 
• Baxter participates in outreach with members of Congress, third party groups and 
community events to advocate for underserved populations disproportionately 
impacted by the diseases that Baxter products and therapies treat.  
• Baxter collaborated with Stichting Sanquin Bloedvoorziening (Sanquin Blood 
Supply Foundation) in the Netherlands to support gro wth of its plasma -based 
treatments.  
• The company also entered into a number of partnerships, such as a novel public -
private partnership in Brazil to expand patient access to vital hemophilia therapies . 
Suppliers: Baxter works with a broad network of suppli ers who provide product inputs as well as goods and services.  
Channels of Engagement  Example  
• Supplier Quality Standard and Ethics 
and Compliance Standards for 
Baxter Suppliers  
• Sustainability language included in 
Baxter requests for proposal (RFP) 
and standard supplier agreement  
• Supplier audits and site visits  
• Ethics and Compliance Helpline  
• Global Supplier Sustainability 
Program  
• Supplier diversity program  
• Benchmarking sustainability 
programs with top suppliers 
• Participation in industry groups such 
as Chicago United and National 
Minority Supplier Development 
Council  • Baxter  collaborates with its suppliers to identify opportunities to improve both 
Baxter’s and suppliers’ environmental performance and minimize 
transportation -related emissions through its e -Impact program.  
• In 2012, Baxter conducted its second Supplier Diversity  Round Table event, 
inviting a few suppliers of varying sizes and industries to Baxter’s 
headquarters to discuss how the company could advance its supplier 
diversity program.  
Shareholders:  Nearly 88% of Baxter’s shares are held by institutional investors .  
Channels of Engagement  Example  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/affiliations -memberships.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    9 • Analyst/investor presentations and 
meetings  
• Socially responsible investment 
surveys 
• Quarterly earnings announcements 
and news releases , as well as 
periodic reports to the SEC  
• Webcasts/conference calls  
• Annual Meeting of Shareholders  
• Road shows, one -on-one meetings 
and investor visits to headquarters  • The Business Value page summarizes the economic benefits of 
sustainability -related initiatives . 
Affiliations and Memberships  
Baxter and its employees en gage with many professional, industry and business organizations worldwide, covering a variety of 
geographic areas, diseases, markets and sustainability issues. By participating in these groups, Baxter can expand its influe nce, help 
raise industry standard s, share and learn best practices, and advance discussions within and beyond the healthcare industry.  
While impractical to include all organizations that Baxter belongs to or supports, the list below provides a representative s ample.  
Advocacy Coalitions  
• Boston College Center for Corporate Citizenship  
• Boston College Center for Work & Family  
• Catalyst  
• Center for Companies That Care 
• Corporate Voices for Working Families  
• National Safety Council  
• Partnersh ip for Quality Medical Donations 
Environmental and Sustainability Organizations  
• Business for Social Responsibility  
• Canadian Business for Social Responsibility  
• Canadian Industry Program for Energy Conservation 
• Center for Health and the Global Environment  
• Ceres  
• Global Reporting Initiative  
• National Environmental Education Foundation  
• SustainAbility Engaging Stakeho lders Program  
Industry Organizations 
• AdvaMed  
• BIOTECanada  
• Biotechnology Industry Organization  
• EucoMed 
• EuropaBio 
• European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA)  
• European Organization for Packaging and the  Environment (EUROPEN)  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/affiliations -memberships.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    10 • Hemophilia Federation of America  
• Pharmanet/i3  
• IFPMA Influenza Vaccine Supply Task Force  
• Irish Business & Employers Confederation (IBEC) - Health & Safety Policy Committee 
• Institute for Supply Management 
• MEDEC  
• Plasma Protein Therapeutics Association  
• Rx-360 (International Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Consortium)  
• US-ASEAN Business Council  
Patient Organizations  
• Alpha -1 Foundation 
• American Association of Kidney Patients  
• Dialysis Patient Citizens 
• European Hemophilia Consortium  
• European Kidney Patients’ Federation (CEAPIR)  
• European Patients' Forum  
• Eurordis 
• Immune Deficiency Foundation  
• International Patient Organisation for Primary Immunodeficiencies (IPOPI)  
• Hemophilia Federation of America  
• International Society of Peritoneal Dialysis North American Chapter  
• Jeffrey Modell Foundation  
• Latin American Society for Immunodeficiencies  
• National Hemophilia Foundation  
• National Kidney Foundation 
• National Patient Safety Foundation 
• The Oley Foundation  
• World Federation of Hemophilia 
Professional Organizations  
• American Association of Critical -Care Nurses  
• American Industrial Hygiene Association (AIHA)  
• American Nephrology Nurses Association  
• American Society of Anesthesiologists  
• American Society of Health -System Pharmacists  
• American Society of Nephrology  
• American Society of Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition  
• The Auditing Roundtable 
• Board Source 
• Clinical I mmunology Society  
• Corporate Executive Board Compliance and Ethics Leadership Council  
• European Association for Haemophilia and Allied Disorders (E AHAD)  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/affiliations -memberships.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    11 • European Society for Immunodeficiencies (ESID)  
• International Nursing Group for Immunodeficiencies (INGID)  
• International Patient Organisat ion for Primary Immunodeficiencies  
• International Society of Nephrology  
• Institute of Occupational Safety and Health (IOSH)  
• Institute for Safe Medication Practices  
• Institute for Supply Management 
• NAEM (formerly National Association for Environmental Management)  
• National Minority Supp lier Development Council, Inc.  
• Renal Physicians Association  
• Society of Corporate Compliance and Ethics (SCCE)  
• Society of Critical Care Medicine  
• Women’s Business Development Center (WBDC)  
Regional and Local Organizations 
• American Chamber of Commerce for Brazil (AMCHAM Brasil)  
• American Chamber of Commerce for Chile (AMCHAM Chile)  
• American Chamber of Commerce for Panama (Panama)  
• Asociación Colombiana de Hospitales y Clínicas (ACHC) (Colombia)  
• Asociación Venezolana de Equipos Médicos (AVEDEM) (Venezuela)  
• Associação Brasileira dos Importadores de Equipamentos, Produtos e Suprimentos  Médicos -Hospitalares (Abimed) (Brazil)  
• Associação Brasileira de Produtores de Soluções Parenterais (ABRASP) (Brazil)  
• Australian and New Zealand Society of Nephrology ( Australia & New Zealand)  
• BioCrossroads (Indiana, U.S.)  
• Cámara Argentina de Especialidades Medicinales (CAEMe) (Argentina)  
• Cámara Industria Farmacéutica en Chile (ASILFA) (Chile)  
• Cámara Nacional de la Industria Farmacéutica (CANIFARMA) (Mexico)
• Campaign for Greener Health care - Green Nephrology Group (U.K.)  
• Canadian College of Health Service Executives (Canada)  
• Canadian Malnutrition Task Force 
• Canadian Patient Safety Institute (Canada)  
• Chicago United (U.S.)  
• The Commercial Club of Chicago (U.S.) 
• Donors Forum (Illinois, U.S.)  
• Industria Farmacéutica de Investigación e Innovac ión (IFI) (Ecuador)  
• Illinois Biotechnology Industry Organization (U.S.)  
• Industria Farmacéutica de Investigación e Innovación (IFI) (Ecuador) 
• Green Building Council Italia (Italy)  
• Japan Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association (Japan)  
• Korea Pharmaceutical Man ufacturers Association (South Korea)  
• Medical Technology Association of Australia  
• National Center for Asia -Pacific Economic Cooperation (global)  	  
http://www.sustainability.b axter.com/sustainability/affiliations -memberships.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/index.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    12 • Puerto Rico Manufacturers Association (Puerto Rico)  
• Sociedad Argentina de Farmacia y Bioquímica (SAFIBY) (Argentina)  
• Sindicato da Indústria de Produtos Far macéuticos no Estado de São Paulo (Sindusfarma) (Brazil)  
• US-ASEAN Business Council  
• US-China  Business Council  
Sustainability Reporting  
Baxter is committed to sharing informatio n about its sustainability programs, priorities, goals and performance. This report, the 
company’s main vehicle for communicating about its social and environmental initiatives and progress, illustrates Baxter’s 
commitment to sound governance and balanced,  transparent disclosure. It also serves as an entry point for stakeholder engagement 
and is an important means for soliciting feedback on the company’s activities in these areas.  
As a part of the annual reporting process, Baxter measures and evaluates its  performance, and communicates its progress and 
challenges. The company's annual exercise of collecting, analyzing and reviewing report content engages and educates employee s, 
senior management and the company’s Board of Directors on sustainability issues while driving performance improvements. This 
report also illustrates the interconnection between content areas, such as how product innovation can support access to healt hcare in 
emerging markets and the relationship between water consumption, energy use a nd greenhouse gas emissions.  
Baxter released its first public environmental report in 1992 and published its first sustainability report in 1999. The comp any has 
produced a sustainability report every year since, and is committed to annual reporting. The comprehensive 2012 Sustainability 
Report is available online. Baxter also produces a downloadable PDF of each section and an overview brochure, available in mu ltiple 
languages.  
Baxter discloses information about its sustainability programs and performance  through several additional communication channels 
as well. These include socially responsible investor surveys, award applications, press releases, responses to customer reque sts for 
proposals, governmental reports such as the U.S. Employer Information Re port (EEO -1) and the U.S. Toxics Release Inventory, 
participation in conferences, presentations at universities and industry forums, executive speeches, and targeted stakeholder  
communications.  
Feedback 
Stakeholder feedback is an important source of input  to support continual improvement of Baxter's sustainability programs and 
reporting. Baxter encourages readers of its report to provide comments and suggestions through the company’s Sustainabi lity 
Survey . 
About This Report  
• This report is intended for global use. Please consult the appropriate country -specific Baxter website for more information 
regarding activities in that country. Some statements in the report about products or procedures ma y differ from the licensed  
indications in specific countries. Therefore, always consult the country -specific summary of product characteristics (SPC), package 
leaflets or instructions for use. For more information, please contact a local Baxter representa tive. 
• The performance data in this report are from calendar year 2012 unless stated otherwise. Some case studies and program 
descriptions include information from 2013. 
• This report covers Baxter's global operations, including subsidiaries, unless otherwise  noted. Environmental, health and safety data 
include joint ventures where Baxter has a controlling interest.  
• All currency in this report is in U.S. dollars unless stated otherwise. 
• Significant restatements of data compared to prior years are noted in the section where they appear. 
• For more information about this report, please contact the Center for One Baxter at 1 -800-422-9837 or 1 -224-948-1812, or by 
email at onebaxter@baxter.com . 
 	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sust ainability -reporting/external -reporting -standards.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/feedback -2011- report.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    13 External Reporting Standards  
Global Reporting Initiative  
Baxter recognizes the importance of external sustainability reporting standards to promote relevant, transparent, balanced an d 
comparable disclosure of company performance. The company was one of the first to pilot the Global Re porting Initiative (GRI) 
Guidelines in 1999 and has served as a GRI Organizational Stakeholder (OS) since the program's inception in 2004.  
The GRI Guidelines provide a valuable perspective to Baxter in its reporting process. GRI reporting principles (see b elow) offer a 
framework to test whether the company addresses key aspects of disclosure. Reviewing report content against the range of GRI 
performance indicators helps Baxter to identify possible reporting gaps and areas that may warrant further disclosure . This process is 
also useful to compare the company against reporting leaders and others in the industry.  
This report aligns with the GRI G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines , applicatio n level B (self -declared). See Baxter’s GRI Index  for 
detail.
The following table describes how Baxter addresses GRI G3 reporting principles.  
GRI G3 REPORTING PRINCIPLE  RELE VANCE TO BAXTER 
Principles for Defining Report Content  
Materiality - The information in a report should 
cover topics and Indicators* that reflect the 
organization's significant economic, environmental 
and social impacts, or that would substantively 
influence the assessments and decisions of 
stakeholders.  Baxter continually refines its approach to identifying and reporting on its 
material sustainability issues. This report includes a summary of Baxter's 
sustainability priorities and goals, with links to d etailed information about 
progress in each area.  
Stakeholder Inclusiveness - The reporting 
organization should identify its stakeholders and 
explain in the report how it has responded to their 
reasonable expectations and interests.  Baxter describes its key stakeholder groups, and provides examples of how it 
interacts with each, on the Stakeholder Engagement page. Examples are also 
included throughout the report.  
Sustainability Context -The report should present 
the organization's performance in the wide r 
context of sustainability.  The Chairman and CEO letter presents Baxter's performance in this manner. 
Many sections begin with a brief introduction framing the issue and its 
relevance to sustainability and the company.  
Sustainability Context -Coverage  of the material 
topics and indicators and definition of the report 
boundary should be sufficient to reflect significant 
economic, environmental and social impacts and 
enable stakeholders to assess the reporting 
organization's performance in the reporting period.  Baxter continues to improve its reporting to more fully address the range of 
sustainability issues. In addition to extensive coverage of Baxter's 
sustainability priorities and goals, this report includes sections in a broad 
range of areas such as Environment, Health and Safety; Product 
Responsibility; Supply Chain; and Public Policy.  
Principles for Ensuring Report Quality 
Balance - The report should reflect positive and 
negative aspects of the organization's 
performance to enable a reasoned asse ssment of 
overall performance.  Baxter reports on a consistent set of core performance indicators (see 
Summary Data Table) and the company's sustainability priorities and goals to 
illustrate positive as well as negative performance trends.  
Comparability - Issues and information should be 
selected, compiled and reported consistently. 
Reported information should be presented in a 
manner that enables stakeholders to analyze 
changes in the organization's performance over 
time, and could support analysis relativ e to other 
organizations.  When possible, this report provides five (and in some cases six) years of 
performance data, including relevant breakdowns and progress against 
targets on an absolute and normalized basis. Data are generally included 
under performa nce graphs for clarity, and key information is presented in a 
Summary Data Table for ease of use. Industry performance data are included 
for comparison when available, such as occupational illness and injury rates. 
Data beyond the timeframe of the report a re available in past reports on the 
Downloads page.  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sust ainability -reporting/external -reporting -standards.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/feedback -2011- report.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    14 Accuracy - The reported information should be 
sufficiently accurate and detailed for stakeholders 
to assess the reporti ng organization's 
performance.  Baxter uses a combination of internal processes and a ssurance by the 
external third party Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. of content in the 
Environment, Health and Safety, Supply Chain and selected Product 
Responsibility sections of this report (Product Sustainability Review, Materials 
Use, Packaging and Product End- of-Life) to ensure the reliability of 
information presented. Significant restatements of data are noted . 
Timeliness - Reporting occurs on a regular 
schedule and information is available in time for 
stakeholders to make informed decisions.  Baxter produces its Sustainability Report annually, as soon as is feasible after 
content and data are compiled, analyzed and reviewed. Timing also takes into 
account assurance by the external third party Bureau Veritas North America, 
Inc. of content in the Environment, Health and Safety , Supply Chain and 
selected Product Responsibility  sections of this report ( Product Sustainability 
Review, Materials Use , Packaging  and Product End- of-Life).  
Clarity - Information should be made available in a 
manner that is understandable and accessible to 
stakeholders using the report.  Baxter strives to present the information in this report clearly and concisely. 
The company continues to enhance the report website to further increase 
accessibility, incl uding the addition last year of an interactive dashboard 
illustrating Baxter's priorities and related performance goals.  
Reliability - Information and processes used in the 
preparation of a report should be gathered, 
recorded, compiled, analyzed and discl osed in a 
way that could be subject to examination and that 
establishes the quality and materiality of the 
information.  Bureau Veritas North America,  Inc. assured the Environment, Health and 
Safety , Supply Chain and selected Product Responsibility  sections of this 
report ( Product Sustainability Review , Materials Use , Packaging  and Product 
End- of-Life). In addition, many of the financial data included in this report are 
taken from the consolidated financial statements contained in the Baxter 
International Inc. 2012 Annual Report . These financial statements were 
audited by Baxter's independent registered public accounting firm, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers L LP.  
* According to GRI: indicators elicit comparable information on the economic, environmental and social performance of the org anization.  
Sustainability Priority Updates and Case Studies  
In addition to sections describing the company's policies, progr ams and performance across the range of sustainability issues, the 
Baxter 2012 Sustainability Report also includes the following:  
• An interactive dashboard  highlights progress against each of the company's nine sustainability priorities and related goals, with 
links to more detail.  
• Case studies  provide examples of strong performance in areas  such as Governance, Ethics and Compliance ; Employees ; 
Environment, Health and Safety ; Product Responsibility ; Supply Chain; and Community Support . 
Feedback on 2011 Report  
Ongoing improvement is a fundamental aspect of Baxter's sustainability reporting process. To ensure the company continues to 
deliver stakeholders the most relevant information, Baxter solicited feedback on its 2011 Sustainability Report from numerous  experts:  
• SustainAbility, a strategy consultant/think tank;  
• Ceres1, a national coalition of investors and public interest groups addressing sustainability, and its select coalition members with 
expertise in areas of focus for Baxter; and  
• Bureau Veritas North America, Inc., Baxter's verification body, for the Environment, Health and Safety and Supply C hain sections, 
as well as the Product Transport page.  
Baxter also received feedback from more than 50 readers through its Sustainability Survey. The company considered input from all of 
these sources in the preparation of this report.  
Ceres and its coalition members also provided Baxter input during the content development process of this report for 2012 (si milar to 
last year). Their review and comments focused on draft text for the Priorities and Goals dashboard  as well as the 2012 Sustainability at 
Baxter brochure . Baxter welcomed the opportunity to hear and consider input on report content while still in a position to act on it.  
These organizations and stakeholders cited several areas of strength from the 2011 report and 2012 draft text, including the following 
(paraphrased):  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/feedback -2011- report .html 
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    15 • Baxter ar ticulates and demonstrates a clear commitment to reporting and describes how it uses the reporting process as a 
management tool.  
• The report clearly describes how the company applies GRI principles. 1 
• Baxter clearly defines nine sustainability priorities a nd related goals that are reinforced throughout the report.  
• The report does an excellent job of describing the company’s stakeholder engagement process with a page that outlines the 
channels and frequencies of Baxter’s communication with stakeholder group s.  
• The report generally presents performance information in a balanced manner.  
• When performance data appear out of the expected range, the company generally provides useful context and interpretation.  
• Baxter provides a good discussion of the business be nefits of sustainability.  
• The company enhances credibility by including feedback on the previous report and describing how it was addressed.  
• The report includes detailed information about policies, structures and processes for managing sustainability (es pecially in the 
Environment, Health and Safety and Governance, Ethics and Compliance sections).  
• The report includes robust environmental, health and safety data. Baxter clearly acknowledges the issues it faces across the value 
chain and the company’s impa cts in those areas.  
• The report includes outstanding transparency on political contributions.  
Feedback on the 2011 report as well as on an outline of progress made toward each of the company's nine sustainability priori ties for 
the 2012 report also include d opportunities for improvement. The following table summarizes several of those comments and 
describes changes made to this report in response.  
Feedback  Enhancement to Baxter 2012 Sustainability Report  
General  
Improve the accessibility of the PDF versio n of the 
full report.  Implemented several design changes to streamline and enhance the usability 
of the full report PDF.  
Employees  
Increase transparency about successes and 
challenges in inclusion and diversity and disclose 
steps Baxter is taking to build upon commitments 
and activities from prior years.  Expanded information about business group and regional initiatives to 
address diversity challenges and opportu nities throughout the company.  
Environment, Health and Safety  
The large volume of content u ndermines 
accessibility and the clarity of Baxter’s priority 
areas.  Streamlined content and graphics across the Environment, Health and Safety 
section.  
Update the underlying assumptions and 
methodology for Baxter’s Environmental Financial 
Statement (EFS) , as needed.  Reviewed and as needed updated the assumptions underlying the EFS .  
Increase the verification level for Baxter’s Scope 1 
and Scope 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.  Increased the verification level for Baxter’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG 
emissi ons from limited assurance to reasonable assurance.  
Obtain verification on Baxter’s Scope 3 GHG 
emissions methodology.  Expanded verification of Baxter’s GHG emissions to include the methodology 
and emission factors Baxter uses to calculate or estimate S cope 3 emissions.  
Supply Chain  
Provide greater industry and company context and 
discuss sustainability implications.  Expanded section introduction to offer additional context.  
Access to Healthcare 
Strengthen and expand reporting on access to 
healthca re, particularly how it relates to Added a graphic illustrating Baxter’s approach to business model innovation, 	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/feedback -2011- report.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/assurance.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/documents/bureau -veritas.pdf  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve d   16 
commercial strategies.  including addressing opportunities in the “base of the pyramid” . * 
*Base of the pyramid” refers to the approximately 4 billion people worldwide who each live on less than $1,500 annually. This population generally has limited 
access to the healthcare market.  
1 Ceres is an advocate for sustainability leadership, bringing together a powerful network of companies, investors and public advocacy groups to expand the 
adoption of sustainable business practices and solutions to build a healthy economy. Baxter is a member of the Ceres network of companies, and has committed 
to work with Ceres on various aspects of its sustainabilit y performance and disclosure. Being a Ceres company is not a certification or stamp of approval. The 
Ceres stakeholder team designated to work with Baxter is an independent group of individuals drawn primarily from the Ceres c oalition and represents a rang e of 
constituencies that have expertise in environmental, social and governance issues. In its review of draft content for the Bax ter 2011 Sustainability Report and the 
Baxter 2012 Sustainability Report, the Ceres stakeholder team provided a diverse group of Baxter executives and program leads its feedback on the company's 
sustainability priorities, performance and key impacts, and had a robust discussion about goals, initiatives, data and report ing. Baxter considered this feedback in 
the preparation of thi s report.  
Assurance  
Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. assured the Environment, Health and Safety , Supply Chain and selected Product Responsibility  
sections of this report ( Product Sustainability Review , Materials Use , Packaging  and Product End- of-Life) (see assurance opinion in 
English ). Many of the financial data included in the Economic Impacts section are taken from the consolidated financial statements 
contained in the Baxter International Inc. 2012 Annual Report . These financial statements are audited by Baxter's independent 
registered public accounting firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. 
Bureau Ver itas Verification Report
 
 
  
 
 
	  
http://www.su stainability.baxter.com/documents/bureau -veritas.pdf  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    17  
 
 
 
	  
http://www.su stainability.baxter.com/documents/bureau -veritas.pdf  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    18  
 
 
 
	  
http://www.su stainability.baxter.com/documents/bureau -veritas.pdf  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/gri -index.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    19 Global Reporting Initiative Index  
This report aligns with the GRI G3 Guidelines . Baxter self -declares this report to application level B. Please also see how Baxter 
addresses G3 reporting principles . 
Disclosure  Description  2012 Reporting  
Strategy and Analysis 
1.1 Statement from the most senior decision -maker of the 
organization about the relevance of sustainability to  the 
organization and its strategy.  Chairman and CEO Letter  
1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities.  Chairman and CEO Letter  
Priorities and Goals 
Organizational Profile  
2.1 Name of the organization.  Company Profile  
2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services.  Company Profile  
2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main 
divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint 
ventures.  Company Profile  
2.4 Location of organization's headquarters.  Baxter's headquarters are located in Deerfield, Illinois, 
United States, approximately 20 miles north of 
Chicago.  
2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and 
names of countries with either major operations or that are 
specifically relevant to the sustainabili ty issues covered in 
the report. Company Profile  
EHS Management Systems  and Certifications  
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/gri -index.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve d   20 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form.  Baxter Healthcare Corporation (BAX) is a publicly 
traded company listed on the New York Stock 
Exchange.  
2.7 Markets served.  Company Profile  
2.8 Scale of the reporting organization.  Company Profile  
Employees  
Environment, Health and Safety  
Supply Chain 
2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding 
size, structure, or ownership.  Company Profile  
2.10 Awards received in the reporting period.  Awards and Honors  
Report Parameters  
3.1 Reporting period for information provided.  Sustainability Reporting 
3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any).  Downloads  
3.3 Reporting cycle.  Sustainability Reporting 
3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its 
contents.  Sustainability Reporting 
3.5 Process for defining report content.  Baxter’s Approach  
Priorities and Goals 
External Repo rting Standards  
Feedback on 2011  Report  
3.6 Boundary of the report.  Susta inability Reporting  
Environment, Health and Safety  GHG Emissions 
across the Value Chain  
3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of 
the report. Sustainability Reporting 
Environment, Health and Safety   
3.8 Basis for reporting on joint v entures, subsidiaries, leased 
facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can 
significantly affect comparability from period to period 
and/or between organizations.  Sustainability Reporting 
3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of 
calculations, including assumptions and techniques 
underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Baxter Energy Usage and Greenhouse Gas Emissions  
GHG Emissions across the Value Chain  
GHG Emissions from Operations  
2012 Environmental Financial Statement  
2012 Safety Performance 
Sustainable Procurement  
Community Support  
Summary Data Table (PDF)  
3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re -statements of 
information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for 
such re- statement.  Environment, Health and Safety  
 	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/gri -index.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve d   21 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting p eriods in the 
scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the 
report.  Baxter Energy Usage and Greenhouse Gas Emissions  
GHG Emissions across the Value Chain  
3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in 
the report. Global Report ing Initiative Index  
3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external 
assurance for the report.  Assurance  
Governance, Commitments and Engagements  
4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including 
committees under the highest govern ance body 
responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or 
organizational oversight.  Corporate Governance  
4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body 
is also an executive officer.  Corporate Governance  
4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state 
the number of members of the highest governance body 
that are independent and/or non -executive members.  Corporate Governance  
4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 
recommendations or direction to the highest governance 
body.  How to Contact Baxter’s Board of Directors  
4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest 
governance body, senior managers, and executives 
(including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (in cluding social and environmental 
performance).  Baxter’s Compensation Committee and Committee 
Charter  
4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to 
ensure conflicts of interest are avoided.  Corporate Goverance  
Codes and Standards  
4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and exp ertise of 
the members of the highest governance body for guiding 
the organization's strategy on economic, environmental, 
and social topics.  Corporate Governance Guidelines 
4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes 
of conduct, and pri nciples relevant to economic, 
environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation.  Corporate Governance  
Codes and Standards  
Talent Management  
Global Inclusion and Diversity   
EHS Vision and Policy  
R&D and Design  
Clinical Trials 
Supplier Standards 
Product Donations  
4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for o verseeing 
the organization's identification and management of 
economic, environmental, and social performance, Corporate Governance  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/gri -index.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve d   22 including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or 
compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of 
conduct, and principles.  
4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's 
own performance, particularly with respect to economic, 
environmental, and social performance.  Corporate Governance Guidelines 
4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary 
approach or principle is addressed by the organization.  Baxter's products are regulated by health authorities 
around the world and the company is required to 
provide extensive scientific data related to the safety and efficacy of those products in order to obtain 
licensure by regulatory authorities. See also  R&D and 
Design and  Materials Use . 
4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social 
charte rs, principles, or other initiatives to which the 
organization subscribes or endorses.  Affiliations and Memberships  
Codes and Standards  
EHS Management Systems and Certifications  
Biodiversity  
GHG Emissions from Operations  
Animal Welfare 
Clinical Trials 
Product Use  
Supplier Standards  
External Reporting Standards  
4.13 Memberships in associations and/or national/international 
advocacy orga nizations.  Affiliations and Memberships  
4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization.  Stakeholder Engagement  
4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with 
whom to engage.  Stakeholder Engagement  
4.16 Approaches to stakeh older engagement, including 
frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder 
group.  Stakeholder Engagement  
4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through 
stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has 
responded to those key topics and concerns, including 
through its reporting.  Feedback on 2011  Report  
Economic 
 Disclosure on Management Approach Economic Impacts 
Direct Impacts  
Indirect Impacts  
EC1 Economic value generated and distributed, including 
revenues, operating costs, employee c ompensation, 
donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and 
governments. (Core)  Direct Impacts  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/gri -index.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve d   23 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for 
the organization's activities due to clima te change. (Core)  Baxter  considers its exposure, during the next 
decade, to potential regulatory, physical and other 
risks related to climate change to be low. The company believes existing and anticipated 
government policies, legislation, regulations and 
energy standards aimed at improving energy efficiency and limiting and reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions will pose minimal regulatory risk to the corporation, in part due to Baxter's proactive approach in this area. In the near -term, Baxter 
anticipat es minimal physical risk to its business 
associated with global warming, resultant climate 
change, sea -level rise, change in weather patterns 
and precipitation. For more information, see Baxter's 
Carbon Disclosure Project submission. For more information, see Baxter's Carbon Disclosure Project 
submission.  
EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan 
obligations. (Core)  2012 Annual Report (page 82 ) 
EC4 Significant financial assistance receive d from government. 
(Core) Not available on companywide basis. 
EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to 
local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. 
(Additional)  
EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locall y-
based suppliers at significant locations of operation. (Core)  Supplier Diversity 
EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior 
management hired from the local community at significant 
locations of operation. (Core)  Baxter does not track this information globally.  
EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and 
services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in -kind, or pro bono engagement. (Core)  Access to Healthcare  
Community Support  
EC9 Understanding and des cribing significant indirect economic 
impacts, including the extent of impacts. (Additional)  Indirect Impacts  
Environmental  
 Disclosure on Management Approach EHS Program  
Product Responsibility  
EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. (Core)  Eco- Efficien cy/ Raw Materials Use  
EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input 
materials. (Core)  Eco- Efficiency/ Raw Materials Use  
EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 
(Core) Energy 
Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage  
and Greenhouse Gas Em issions  
EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. (Core)  Energy 	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/gri -index.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve d   24 Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage  
and Greenhouse Gas Emissions  
EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency 
improvements. (Additional)  Energy 
EN6 Initiatives to provide energy -efficient or renewable energy 
based products and services, and reductions in energy 
requirements as a result of these initiatives. (Additional)  GHG Emissions from Operations  
Product Sustainability Review  
EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumpt ion and 
reductions achieved. (Additional)  Energy 
Case Study: Employees Drive Innovative 
Environmental Initiatives  
EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. (Core)  Water and Wastewater  
EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. 
(Additional) Water and Wast ewater  
EN10  Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 
(Additional)  
EN11  Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or 
adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity 
value outside protected areas. (Core)  Biodiversit y 
EN12  Description of significant impacts of activities, products, 
and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of 
high biodiversity value outside protected areas. (Core)  Biodiversity  
EN13  Habitats protected or restored. (Additional)  Biodive rsity 
EN14  Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing 
impacts on biodiversity. (Additional)  Biodiversity  
EN15  Number of IUCN Red List species and national 
conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by 
operations, by level o f extinction risk. (Additional)   
EN16  Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by 
weight. (Core)  GHG Em issions across the Value Chain  
GHG Emissions from Operations  
Baxter Energy Usage and Greenhouse Gas Emissions  
EN17  Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by 
weight. (Core)  GHG Emissions across the Value Chain  
GHG Emissions from Operations  
Baxter Energy Usage and Greenhouse Gas Emissions   
EN18  Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and 
reductions achieved. (Additional)  GHG Emissions from Operations  
Case Study: Employees Drive Innovative 
Environmental Initiatives   
EN19  Emissions of ozone- depleting substances by weight. (Core)  Air Emissions  
EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and 
weight. (Core)  Air Emissions  
EN21  Total water discharge by quality and destination. (Core)  Water and Wastewater  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/gri -index.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve d   25 EN22  Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. (Core) Waste  
EN23  Total number and volume of significant spills. (Core) Environmental Compliance 
EN24  Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste 
deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel 
Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of 
transported was te shipped internationally. (Additional)   
EN25  Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of 
water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by 
the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff. 
(Additional)  
EN26  Initiat ives to mitigate environmental impacts of products 
and services, and extent of impact mitigation. (Core)  Product Susta inability Review  
Materials Use  
Materials Re strictions  
Manufacturing   
Product Transport   
Case Study: Decreasing Environmental Impact of 
Product Transportation   
Packagin g  
Product End- of-Life  
Sustainable Procurement   
EN27  Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials 
that are reclaimed by category. (Core)  The European Union packaging directive requires 
Baxter to reclaim packaging and to submit related 
reports. Baxter typically pays third parties fees of about $1 mil lion per year to do this, as indicated on 
the company's Environmental Financial Statement . 
Baxter does not currently have systems to trac k 
quantities of packaging materials reclaimed. Baxter's products are primarily disposable medical products. Reclamation of these products is difficult since often they must be disposed of as biohazardous waste after their use. Baxter continues to explore m eans to 
reclaim and recycle products with its customers. See 
also Product End- of-Life. 
EN28  Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-
moneta ry sanctions for non -compliance with environmental 
laws and regulations. (Core)  Environmental Compliance 
EN29  Significant environmental impacts of transporting products 
and other goods and materials used for the organization's 
operations, and transporting  members of the workforce. 
(Additional) GHG Emissions across the Value Chain  
GHG Emissions from Operations  
Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage and  
Greenhouse Gas Emissions  
Product Transport  
EN30  Total environmental protection expenditures and 
investments by type (Additional)  2012 Environmental Financial Statement  
Labor Practices and Decent Work  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/gri -index.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve d   26  Disclosure on Management Approach Talent Management  
Sustainability Education  
Compensation and Benefits 
Measuring Company Culture  
Global Inclusion and Diversity  
Work /Life 
LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, 
and region. (Core)  Employees  
LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, 
gender, and region. (Core)  Talent Management  
LA3 Benefits provided to full -time employees that a re not 
provided to temporary or part -time employees, by major 
operations. (Additional)  Compensation and Benefits 
Work/Life  
LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining 
agreements. (Core)  Baxter does not track this information globally.  
LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational 
changes, including whether it is specified in collective 
agreements. (Core)  The length of the notice period is dependent on the 
type of change being made. Baxter is committed to 
providing appropr iate notice and follows all relevant 
consultation and notice requirements.  
LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint 
management -worker health and safety committees that 
help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety 
programs . (Additional)  
LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 
absenteeism, and number of work -related fatalities by 
region. (Core) 2012 Safety Performance  
LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk -control 
programs in place to assist workforce members, their 
families, or community members regarding serious 
diseases. (Core)  Advancing Public Health  
Product Donations  
The Baxter International Foundation   
LA9 Health and safety  topics covered in formal agreements with 
trade unions. (Additional)  
LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by 
employee category. (Core)  Talent Management  
LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that 
support the continued  employability of employees and 
assist them in managing career endings. (Additional)  Talent Management  
Sustainability Education  
LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 
and career development reviews. (Additional)  Talent Management  
LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of 
employees per category according to gender, age group, 
minority group membership, and other indicators of 
diversity. (Core)  Global Inclusion and Diversity  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/gri -index.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve d   27 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by emp loyee 
category. (Core)  Baxter does not track this information globally.  
Human Rights  
 Disclosure on Management Approach Global Human Rights Policy  
Supplier Standards 
HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment 
agreements that include human rights clauses or that have 
undergone human rights screening. (Core)  Baxter does not track this information globally in a 
consistent manner. See also Supplier Standards.  
HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that 
have undergone screening on human rights and actions 
taken. (Core)  Supplier Standards 
Sustainable Procurement  
HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and 
procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are 
relevant to operations, including the percentage of 
employees trained. (Additional)   
HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions 
taken. (Core)  In addition to alleged cases of discriminat ion and 
harassment that may be handled locally, Baxter's 
Ethics and Compliance helpline and information management system logged 15 allegations of 
discr imination and harassment in 2012 . Baxter 
encourages employees to seek guidance and report concerns through a number of formal channels. 
Through these channels, Baxter identifies incidents, 
prevents incidents from occurring and addresses issues when they do arise. Items identified through these channels help Ethics and Compliance managers identify key risks, develop appropriate training, and 
design and apply compliance assessment methodologies.  
HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom 
of association and collective bargaining may be at 
significant risk, and actions taken to support thes e rights. 
(Core)  
HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents 
of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the 
elimination of child labor. (Core)  See Baxter’s Code of Conduct, page 9.  
HR7 Operations identified as having sign ificant risk for incidents 
of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute 
to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. (Core)  See Baxter’s Code of Conduct, page 9.  
HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the 
organization's policies  or procedures concerning aspects of 
human rights that are relevant to operations. (Additional)   
HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of 
indigenous people and actions taken. (Additional)    	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/gri -index.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve d   28 Society  
 Disclosure on Management Appro ach Governance, Ethics and Compliance  
Community Support  
Access to Healthcare  
Critical Community Needs  
Employee Involvement  
SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and 
practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, 
and exiting. (Core)  Environment, Health and Safety  
SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for 
risks related to corruption. (Core) Baxter conducts an annual enterprise -wide risk 
assessment covering, among other things, legal risks 
such as corruption. Baxter also annually conducts intensive assessments of its business units that are 
designed to evaluate whether Baxter has appropriate 
anticorruption policies, processes, controls and training. The company conducted 20  such 
assessments outside the United States in 201 2. 
SO3 Percenta ge of employees trained in organization's anti-
corruption policies and procedures. (Core)  Governance, Ethics and Compliance – Code of 
Conduct  
Governance, Ethics and Compliance - Structure and 
Programs  
SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. (Co re) Allegations are investigated by the Ethics and 
Compliance department.  
SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy 
development and lobbying. (Core)  Public Policy  
2012 Political Contributions Report  
2011 Political Contrib utions Report  
2010 Political Contributions Report  
2009 Politi cal Contributions Report  
2008 Political Contributions Report  
SO6 Total value of financial and in -kind contributions to political 
parties, politicians, and re lated institutions by country. 
(Additional) 2012 Political Contributions Report  
2011 Political Contributions Report  
2010 Political Contributions Report  
2009 Political Contributions Report  
2008 Political Contributions Report  
SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti -competitive behavior, 
anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. 
(Additional)  
SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-
monetary sanctions for non -compliance with laws and 
regulations. (Core) Environmental Compliance 
Health and Safety Compliance  
Safety  
Product Use  
Product Responsibility 
 Disclosure on Management Approach Product Responsibility  
Quality   	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/gri -index.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    29 Safety   
Product Integrity  
R&D and Design  
Materials Use  
Manufacturing  
Packaging   
Product Use  
Product End- of-Life 
Product Transport  
Advancing Public Health  
Base of the Pyramid  
Product Donations   
PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of 
products and services are assessed for improvement, and 
percentage of significant products and services categories 
subject to such procedures. (Core)  Product Sustainability Review  
PR2 Total number of incidents of non -compliance with 
regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and 
safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. (Additional)  Safety  
PR3 Type of product and service information required by 
procedures, and percentage of significant products and 
services subject to such information requirements. (Core)  Clinical Trials 
Product Use  
PR4 Total number of incidents of non -compliance with 
regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and 
service  information and labeling, by type of outcomes. 
(Additional)  
PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results 
of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. (Additional)  
PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary 
codes r elated to marketing communications, including 
advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. (Core)  Product Use  
PR7 Total number of incidents of non -compliance with 
regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing 
communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. (Additional)  Safety  
Product Use  
PR8 
 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding 
breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. 
(Additional)  
PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non -compliance with 
laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of 
products and services. (Core).  Product Use  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/eco nomic- impacts/index.html 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/economic -impacts/direct -impacts.html 
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    30 Economic Impacts   
Baxter's direct and indirect economic impacts on its stakeholders are an important aspect of 
the company's sustainabilit y performance. Direct impacts include financial transactions, such 
as revenue received from customers, wages and benefits provided to employees, dividends 
paid to investors and tax payments made to governments. Some but not all of these appear 
in a company 's financial statements. Indirect impacts, which are more difficult to quantify, 
include increased productivity and money saved by customers due to their use of Baxter's 
products, and job creation outside of Baxter due to the company's spending.  
Baxter's Financial Performance  
Baxter's broader economic contributions depend on its ongoing financial performance. The 
company's global net sales totaled $14.2 billion in 2012, an increase of 2% over 2011. Sales 
within the United States totaled $6.1 billion, 6% mo re than in 2011, and international sales 
totaled $8.1 billion, decreasing 1% year over year. In 2012, net income attributable to Baxter totaled $2.3 billion compared to $2.2 billion the prior year. On an adjusted basis, excluding 
special charges in 2011 an d 2012, net income attributable to Baxter equaled $2.5 billion in 
2012, 2% more than the prior year. Over the five years ending December 31, 2012, Baxter's 
total shareholder return (including reinvested dividends) was 28%.  
For a detailed description of the  company's financial performance, see Baxter's 2012 Annual 
Report . For other investor information such as upcoming events, presentations and reports, 
see the Investors  section of the company's website . 
Direct Impacts  
Baxter's direct impacts include payments Baxter makes to and receives from various stakeholder groups during the course of 
business. For example:  
• Customers buy Baxter's products;  
• Baxter pays suppliers for raw materials and other goods and services;  
• Employees receive wages and benefits;  
• Investors provide Baxter capital in exchange for dividends and possible gains in share value; and  
• Communities may receive tax payments, as well as cash and product donations (in some location ).
The following table summarizes these transactions.  
Economic Value Generated and Distributed (Dollars in Millions) 
 2008  2009  2010 2011  2012  
Economic Value Generated 
Net Sales  $12,348 $12,562 $12,843 $13,893 $14,190 
Net Income Attributable to 
Baxter  2,014 2,205 1,420 2,224 2,326 
Economic Value Distributed  
Suppliers  
Payments to Suppliers 
(approximate)  $4,400 $4,400 $5,500 $5,700 $6,100 
Investors  
Share Repurchases 1,986 1,216 1,453 1,583 1,480 
Cash Dividends on 
Common Stock  546 632 688 709 804 
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/economic -impacts/direct -impacts.ht ml 
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    31 Governments  
Income Tax Expense (U.S.)  205 273 284 256   177 
Income Tax Expense 
(international) 232 246 179 297 403 
Communities  
Cash Donations*  32.9 33.9 31.3 33.0 28.7 
Product Donations/  
Patient Assistance 
Programs**  10.9 18.9 48.1 47.2 
 28.0 
Baxter (Reinvested)  
Capital Expenditures 954 1,014 963 960 1,161 
R&D Expenses  868 917 915 946 1,156 
*Baxter and The Baxter International Foundation.  
**Variations in Baxter's annual product donatio ns are due to fluctuations in community needs, the regulatory environment, manufacturing processes and marketing.  
   The company identifies opportunities to donate and responds to community requests as appropriate.
Baxter Share Performance  
See Baxter's 2012 Annual Report  to view a graph that compares the change in cumulative total shareholder return (including 
reinvested dividends) on Baxter's common stock with the St andard & Poor's 500 Composite Index and the Standard & Poor's 500 
Health Care Index as of December 31 of each year.  
For additional detail, see Baxter's interactive stock  chart . 
Impact on Communities  
Local communities benefit from Baxter's presence through wages the company pays employees as well as other expenditures and 
investments. In April 2012, Baxter announced construction of a new state -of-the-art manufacturing facility in Covington, Georgia, 
United States, to support growth of its plasma -based treatments, including for immune disorders, trauma and other critical conditions. 
Baxter expects capital investments at the site to exceed $1 billion over the next five years . The company anticipates that this 
expansion will create more than 1,500 full -time positions in Georgia and more than 2,000 jobs in total across multiple U.S. locations. 
Learn more.  
In addition, w ork progresses on Baxter's expansion in Singapore, which will significantly increase manufacturing capacity for 
recombinant FVIII; and construction has begun to expand capacity in Halle/Westfalen, Germany, supporting the growth of Baxter 's 
BioPharma Soluti ons business. Baxter has also invested in renovating its facilities in Los Angeles and Thousand Oaks, Calif., to 
improve output and ensure that Baxter's manufacturing facilities continue to deliver critical therapies to patients worldwide . Given the 
streng th of Baxter's late -stage development pipeline, with numerous products expected to launch over the next few years, the 
Thousand Oaks facility will be adding square footage with on -site expansion and the purchase of an additional nearby building. The 
additi onal square footage will provide needed space for offices and manufacturing activities.  
In some Baxter manufacturing plants, the company employs healthcare professionals who provide free or inexpensive healthcare to 
employees' families and other community members. During the 2012 -2013 season, Baxter facilities in the following locations offered 
free or subsidized seasonal flu vaccinations to employees' family members: Australia (Toongabbie), South Korea, Mexico, Phili ppines 
(Canlubang), Puerto Rico (Guayama ), Spain (Sabiñánigo), Colombia (Cali), Mexico (Cuernavaca), the United States (Daytona Beach, 
Florida) and Venezuela. The company provided a total of 470 vaccinations to family members through this initiative, in additi on to the 
over 19,000 vaccinations p rovided to employees.  
In addition, many Baxter facilities support local charities (see Critical Community Needs  for detail) . 
 	  
impacts.htmlhttp://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/economic -impacts/indirect -impacts.html 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/economic -impacts/business -value.html  
© Copyrig ht 2013 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    32 Indirect Impacts  
Baxter's mai n indirect economic impacts are through its products and innovations (see Scientific Excellence  for detailed information 
about the company's diverse capabilities in medical  devices, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology, including specialty biologics). With 
more than 50 production facilities in 27 countries, proprietary technologies, and complementary manufacturing platforms acros s its 
businesses, the company produces high -quali ty products cost- effectively for local and regional markets, helping improve healthcare 
quality worldwide.  
Baxter conducts economic research, reviews external studies and works to provide governments, healthcare organizations and 
patients the information n eeded to make the best possible treatment decisions. For example, Baxter is the world's leading 
manufacturer of peritoneal dialysis (PD) products to treat patients with end -stage renal disease, or irreversible kidney failure. PD is a 
self-administered in -home therapy. A benefit of PD includes providing therapy at home. In China, the d ialysis population 
increases10% -12% per year, with 89% of those using in -center HD and just 11% using PD. Increasing appropriate patients treated 
with PD therapy to 21% of the total over four years would potentially reduce the country's cumulative five -year dialysis spending by 
370 million RMB ($US 54 million) . 1 
Baxter's spending also has a "multiplier effect" on the broader economy, for example, through creating jobs in the s upply chain and 
supporting services such as air travel or hospitality. The company does not measure these impacts, but believes they are sign ificant 
given Baxter's size and scope. For example, Baxter paid its suppliers approximately $6.1 billion in 2012, w hich those suppliers then 
used to pay their suppliers, provide their employees with wages and benefits, and pay taxes and other expenses.  
1"Economic Evaluations of Dialysis Treatment Modalities," Just et al, Health Policy 86 (2008), 163- 180. 
Business Value  
Pursuing sustainability reflects Baxter's values, supports its social commitments and reduces the company’s environmental imp acts. 
Sustainability also enhances Baxter’s business, as described in the following table.  
 
Cost Savings and Avoidance   
• Environmental Financial Statement  
• Energy savings  from operations 
• Reduced waste  
• More efficient water use  
• Decreased worker's compensation through enhanced employee health and safety  
• Improve d packaging designs with decreased materials use  
• Supply chain optimization, including more efficient product transport  
Market Access   
• Product quality, safety  and integrity  
• Compliance with regulations worldwide such as the European Union Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE)  
Directive , Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Directive , Evaluation and Authorisation of Che micals (REACH) Directive  
Employee Engagement    
• Talent acquisition, management , development and retention  
• Sustainability education  
• Global inclusion and diversity  
• Work/life programs  
• Culture/engagement survey  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/economic -impacts/business -value.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    33 New and Expanding Markets   
• Peritoneal dialysis  
• Materials innovations  
• Requests for proposals (RFPs) including environmental and social crit eria 
• Products and solutions targeting customers at the "Base of the Pyramid"  
• Partnering  with health authorities to expand access to healthcare  
Enhanced Brand and Reputation    
• Inclusion in socially responsible investment indices  
• Improved reputation through awards and recognition  
• Leadership in addressing global climate change and other sustainability issues  
• Enhanced relationships with local communities and other stakeholders  
Managing Risk  
Baxter also manages various risk factors related to sustainability such as product quality, efficacy and safety; compliance with laws 
and regulations worldwide; governmental and other policies related to reimbursement for medical products; and intellectual pr operty 
protection. See pages 6- 12 of Baxter's Annual Report on Form 10- K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012 for more detail. 
Information about Baxter's approach in some of these areas is included in this report as well, such as in Quality , Safety , Environmental 
Compliance  and Product Use . 
 	  
Priorities and 2015 Goals  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -people/  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved 	  	  
	  	  
	  
	  
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -people/  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -operations -products/  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved 	  	  
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -people/  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -operations -products/  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved 	  	  
	  
	  
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -operations -products/  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved 	  	  
	  
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -operations -products/  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved 	  	  
 
Governance, Ethics and Compliance  
	  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics- compliance/index.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    2 Governance, Ethics and Compliance  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
   
As a global healthcare company operating in more than 100 countries, Baxter  is committed to effective 
corporate governance, adherence to the law, and a culture of ethics and compliance throughout the 
organization.  
In 1995, Baxter became one of the first companies to adopt formal corporate governance guidelines. These guidelines address the 
operation of Baxter’s board of directors and board committees, which in turn govern the management of the company and represe nt 
shareholder interests. At Baxter, re -examining the company’s practices and setting new standards is an ongoing proce ss. Today's 
corporate governance guidelines reflect this evolution.  
Baxter’s Ethics and Compliance team works closely with operating and legal teams based regionally in Baxter's businesses to e nsure 
that the company’s activities adhere to applicable laws a nd to company policies. The organization offers numerous channels to 
educate and counsel employees as well as confidential avenues to report alleged violations of law and policy, which it invest igates 
promptly and reports to senior management as appropriat e. 
This section covers the following topics:  
• Corporate  Governance  
• Codes  and Standards  
• Ethics  and Compliance  Structure  and Programs  
• Communication  and Guidance  
 
Employee Perspective 
"Business ethics was one of the major reasons why I decided to join Baxter 10 years ago."  
       -Alexander, Business Unit Manager, Greece  
 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics- compliance/corporate -governance.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics- compliance/codes -and-standards.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    3 Corporate Governance  
Baxter is operated under the direction of the company's board of directors. In 2011, 11 independent directors and Baxter's chief 
executive officer (CEO) comprised the company's 12 -person board.  
Baxter's CEO also serves as the chairman of the board. The board believes this provides a single vision for the company and r esults in 
an efficient and effective organizational structure.  
The board also annually appoints an independent lead director, who presides at executive sessions of the board and serves as a 
liaison between the other independent directors and the chairman. Th e lead director also reviews meeting agendas, works with the 
chairman to facilitate timely and appropriate information flow to the board, and serves as the contact person for interested parties to 
communicate directly with the independent members of the bo ard. 
Baxter’s board of directors has long adhered to principles designed to ensure effective corporate governance. Since 1995, the  board 
has had in place corporate governance guidelines reflecting these principles. Baxter’s current corporate governance gui delines cover 
topics including director qualification standards, responsibilities, access to management and independent advisors, director 
compensation, director education, succession planning, and the annual evaluations of the board and its committees.  
 
Baxter's board has six committees: Audit, Compensation, Corporate Governance, Finance, Public Policy, and Science and 
Technology. Each is made up of independent directors and has the authority to obtain advice or assistance from outside expert s, as 
the com mittee deems appropriate. The roles of these committees are described in the following table. Click on each link to view more  
detail, including a list of current members.  
Audit  Committee  Focuses on the integrity of Baxter's financial statements, system of internal accounting 
controls, the internal and external audit process, and the process for monitoring 
compliance with laws and regulations.  
Compensation  Committee  Exercises the authority of the board relating to employee benefit and equity -based plans 
and the compensation of the comp any’s officers.  
Corporate  Governance  Committee  Assists and advises the board on director nominations, corporate governance, and 
general  board organization and planning matters. 
Finance Committee  Assists the board in fulfilling its responsibilities in connection with the company’s fi nancial 
affairs, including overseeing financial proposals, capital expenditures, acquisitions, 
divestitures, dividend proposals, share repurchases, management of pension assets, 
financial policies and other financial actions.  
Public  Policy  Committee  Assists the board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities with respect to legal, regulatory 
and other compliance matters, and advises the board  with respect to Baxter’s 
responsibilities as a global corporate citizen, including the range of topics discussed in 
this report. The committee annually reviews the company's sustainability initiatives, 
including with respect to the spectrum of topics disc ussed in this report, and reports on 
these activities to the full board.  
Science and Technology Committee  Assists and advises the board in the oversight of Baxter’s long- term research and 
development (R&D) strategies and objectives, R&D pipeline and significant technology 
platforms; and evaluates emerging issues and trends in science and technology that may 
affect the company’s overall bus iness strategy . 
 
The board meets in executive session at each regularly scheduled meeting. During 2012, the board held 10 meetings. All direct ors 
attended 85% or more of the meetings of the board and board committees on which they served. Average attendan ce was 
approximately 98%. View more information on the board's activities and responsibilities.  
 	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics- compliance/corporate -governance.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics- compliance/codes -and-standards.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    4 The board considers candidates for director recommended by shareholders, board members, management and an independent 
search firm retained by the board to help identify and evaluate potential director nominees. The board evaluates all candid ates in the 
same manner regardless of the source of recommendation. Directors are selected on the basis of talent and experience. The sel ection 
process takes into account diversity of background, including gender, race, ethnic or geographic origin, age and  experience (in fields 
such as business, government and education as well as healthcare, science and technology). A nominee’s ability to meet the 
independence criteria established by the New York Stock Exchange is also a factor in the selection process
Executive Compensation  
Baxter’s executive compensation program is designed to recognize company and individual performance, drive the long -term 
financial performance of the company (and in doing so, encourage innovation and appropriate levels of risk -taking),  and reflect the 
value of each officer’s position in the market and within the company. The objective of the program is to compensate Baxter’s  
executives in a manner that is consistent with these principles, aligns the interests of management and sharehold ers, and drives 
sustained and superior performance relative to the company’s peers. The program is also designed to be competitive with compa nies 
with which Baxter competes for executive talent in order to attract, retain and motivate high -performing execu tives.  
 
In line with Baxter’s pay -for-performance philosophy, executives are compensated based on a range of financial and individual 
performance goals. The goals set for Baxter’s executive officers in 2012 reflected the diversity of the company’s business  and the 
wide range of responsibilities attributed to each of these officers. In 2012, Baxter’s CEO had over 50 individual performance  goals 
addressing a wide range of areas, including among them financial performance, innovation, quality, leadership and c onstituent 
relations (including with respect to sustainability matters).  
 See Baxter’s 2013 Proxy Statement  for more detail on executive compensation.  
 
The board adop ted an executive compensation recoupment policy in February 2009. This policy allows the board to take any actions 
it deems appropriate with respect to executive incentive compensation following any restatement  of the company’s financial results 
that requi res an amendment to previously filed results, or if an officer violates a restrictive covenant in any agreement between the 
company and the officer.  
 
Stock Ownership Guidelines for Executive Officers and Board Members  
To further align the interests of dire ctors and management with shareholders, Baxter requires its executive officers and directors to 
own Baxter stock. Baxter’s CEO is required to achieve ownership of Baxter common stock valued at six times annual base salary . 
Each of the other executive offic ers is required to achieve ownership of Baxter common stock valued at four times annual base salary 
within five years of becoming an executive officer. Each director is to hold Baxter common stock equal to five times annual c ash 
retainer after five years o f board service.  
 
Communicating with the Board of Directors  
Interested parties may communicate directly with any of Baxter’s directors by emailing boardofdirectors@baxter.com or writing  a letter 
to Baxter Director c/o Corporate Secretary, Baxter International Inc., One Baxter Parkway, Deerfield, Illinois 60015. Baxter’s Corporate 
Secretary will forward communications directly to the lead director, unless a different director is specified.  
 
For More Information  
To read more about Baxter’s approach to corporate governance, please see the corporate governance section  of Baxter’s website.  
 
Codes and Standards  
Code of Conduct  
Baxter’s Ethics and Compliance Code and Stand ards are designed for employees and to the company’s relationships with suppliers, 
healthcare practitioners, medical institutions and patient organizations.  
Baxter’s Code of Conduct  defines the core principles that govern employee behavior at Baxter and how the company conducts its 
business. The Code applies to Baxter's board of directors, and all of its employees including the company’s chief executive o fficer 
and other senior management. It builds on Baxter’s long -standing commitment to leadership in ethical business practices, covering 
topics such as protection and use of company assets, accurate recordkeeping, competitive and confidential information, sales and 
marketing practices , anticorruption, insider trading, bioethics, conflicts of interest, gifts and trade compliance. The Code’s user -	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics- compliance/codes -and-standar ds.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics- compliance/structure -and-programs.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    5 friendly format includes questions and answers, decision guides and lists of additional resources available to employees to h elp 
maintain a cul ture of integrity throughout Baxter. The Code is available in 22 languages.  
New Baxter employees receive Code of Conduct training within the first three months of employment at the company. Baxter’s 
corporate policies support the Code by defining the compa ny’s intentions, setting behavioral expectations and requiring certain 
actions with respect to particular topics. A comprehensive Intranet site provides employees with additional information on co rporate 
policies.  
Baxter’s Code of Conduct reflects evolving  regulations and stakeholder expectations regarding industry practices. It extends to the 
company’s relationships with healthcare professionals, medical institutions and patient organizations globally. This includes  Baxter’s 
Global Anticorruption Policy, w hich covers how the company’s employees, contractors, agents and third parties conduct themselves 
with government officials.  
The Code requires the prompt reporting of suspected misconduct and outlines the consequences of failure to comply with applic able 
laws or Baxter's policies and procedures. The company provides ongoing training and a Code of Conduct website to keep employe es 
up to date on Baxter’s ethics and compliance policies, topic- specific training and other tools and resources.  
Human Rights  
As a global healthcare company that conducts business in more than 100 countries, Baxter respects and is committed to fostering 
human rights, dignity and the diverse contributions of all. Baxter’s Human Rights Policy  was approved in 2012. The company’s 
philosophy and policy are further supported by mechanisms already in place at the company, including Baxter’s Leadership 
Expectations , Culture and Shared Values, Code of Conduct, sustainability program, and numerous other global policies that set the 
company’s direction.  
The company has also integ rated Human Rights principles into its:  
• California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010 statement ; 
• Updated Ethics and Compliance Standards for Suppliers;  
• Agreements with suppliers;  
• Supplier sustainability survey; and  
• Ethics training for purchasing and supplier management professionals  
Standards for Baxter Suppliers  
The company’s Ethics and Compliance Standards for Baxter Suppliers  is designed to ensure that all Baxter suppliers also comply with 
the company’s ethical standards. These standards, translated into 19 la nguages, define policies and set common expectations about 
ethical behavior when doing business with Baxter. They also define expected conduct when working for or on behalf of the comp any. 
Baxter’s Supplier Quality and Purchasing and Supplier Management gr oups evaluates and approves all key suppliers before any 
materials, components, products or services may be purchased. To conduct business with Baxter, suppliers must consent to abid e by 
these standards, which are incorporated into supplier agreements (see  Supplier Standards for more information). Additionally, the 
Baxter Supplier Quality Standard  and the Ethics and Compliance Standards for Baxter Suppliers  specifically addres s sustainability 
issues, including indentured and child labor, employment standards, waste and energy reduction, and ethics.  
In addition to the standards described above, Baxter has adopted other professional codes of ethics, including:  
• AdvaMed Code of Ethics on Interactions with Health Care Professionals ; 
• Ethics & Compliance Officer Association (ECOA) Standards of Conduct for Business Ethics and Compliance Professionals;  
• European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA) Code of Practice on Rela tionships with Patient 
Organizations ; 
• Institute for Supply Management (ISM) Principles and Standards of Ethical Supply Management Conduct ; 
• Professional Society of Engineers Code of Ethics for Engineers;  
• Regulatory Affairs Professionals (RAPS) Code of Ethics for  Regulatory Affairs Professionals ; and  
• Society for Corporate Compliance and Ethics (SCCE) Code of Ethics for Compliance and Ethics Professionals . 	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics- compliance/codes -and-standar ds.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics- compliance/structure -and-programs.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    6 Employee Perspective 
"Compliance and integrity is core to what defines a person or a business. It is doing the right thing, every time. It creates a 
culture of trust with both internal and external customers."  
-Mike, Area Vice President of Sales, U.
 
Ethics and Compliance Structure and Programs  
Baxter designed and updates its ethics and compliance structure and programs regularly to reflect the needs of a diversified and 
complex global healthcare company. Additionally, the company manages a range of programs and activities to help employees make 
good decisions about appropriate behaviors in the markets in which they operate.  
Corporate Responsibility Office 
The Corporate Responsibility Office  (CRO), established by Baxter’s Board of Directors in 1993 and composed of six senior executives, 
is responsible for communicating the company’s ethics and compliance standards, providing guidance and overseeing training  to 
employees and directors, maintaining multiple channels for employees to report concerns, and monitoring compliance. The CRO, 
which meets at least every quarter, reports to the board's Public Policy Committee and reports on financial matters to the bo ard's 
Audit Committee (see graphic). Baxter was one of the first companies to establish a direct reporting relationship between its  CRO and 
its board, ensuring ethics and compliance oversight at the highest level.   
The company has since established Regional  Ethics and Compliance Committees to implement the CRO's charter globally and 
enhance corporate understanding of local cultures, values and behavioral norms. Membership in the Regional Ethics and Complia nce 
Committees rotates to ensure broad employee expos ure and participation. The company also has dedicated compliance and legal 
resources in each region outside the United States. The company also has established similar governance structures for its 
BioScience and Medical Products businesses, bringing toget her a cross -functional group of commercial and functional leaders to 
enhance the effectiveness of Baxter’s compliance program.  
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics- compliance/structure -and-programs.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    7 Certificate of Integrity and Compliance  
Each year, Baxter requires executives, managers, sales representatives and other selected employees around the world to reaffirm 
their commitment to the company's ethics and compliance standards by completing and submitting a Certificate of Integrity and  
Compliance (COIC). The COIC also serves as a reporting document that measures the integration of ethical business practices 
throughout Baxter. In 2012, more than 16,600 employees who have manager or greater -level responsibilities completed the COIC, 
which is available in 12 languages.  
Legal and Regulatory Compliance Training  
Baxter requ ires employees worldwide to take Web -based training on legal and regulatory compliance. In 2012, 38,271 employees 
completed more than 110,280 e- Learning courses covering areas such as product complaints, pharmacovigilance, adverse -event 
reporting procedure s, workplace violence prevention, data privacy, trade compliance, requirements for selling to the U.S. government, 
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, antitrust, intellectual property, and Baxter’s ethics and compliance standards. Baxter’s E thics and 
Compli ance group and Legal department also conducted hundreds of classroom sessions around the world in 2012 to train 
employees globally on Baxter’s ethics and compliance standards and supporting policies.  
In 2012, Baxter continued to implement its risk -based a nticorruption education program to provide awareness -level training to most 
employees, and more advanced training to employees who regularly interact with government officials and healthcare profession als. 
During the year, Baxter conducted more than 400 an ticorruption training sessions, reaching more than 10,000 employees in targeted 
positions.  
Baxter also expanded its Compliance Fitness training program in 2012. The program, initially implemented in Asia Pacific, was  
enhanced and implemented in targeted s ub-regions within Europe, Latin America and the U.S. Compliance Fitness is a one day 
minimum interactive program that uses real -world compliance case studies tailored to the specific markets where participants work as 
teams to identify compliance issues an d present solutions. As such, the programs are designed to drive discussion, to enhance 
leaders’ critical thinking skills to identify and address compliance issues in their markets, and to raise concerns when appr opriate.  
 
Relationships with Healthcare Pro fessionals and Government Officials  
Government spending on healthcare as a percentage of gross domestic product or per capita income has increased in the United 
States and abroad, and governments are seeking ways to reduce pressure on their budgets while m aintaining current or improved 
levels of healthcare delivery. At the same time, healthcare companies face the perception that their marketing programs and R &D and 
production costs are significant factors in increasing healthcare costs. In this context, com panies such as Baxter understand the 
importance of being transparent about their relationships with healthcare professionals. This includes the continued implemen tation of 
anticorruption programs that work to ensure that those relationships and related pay ments are for necessary and bona fide services. 
As a company dedicated to making a meaningful difference in patients’ lives, Baxter’s integrity in this area is paramount.  
 
Physician Payment Disclosure/Sunshine Act  
Beginning in August of 2013, companies op erating in the United States that manufacture covered drugs, devices, biologics and 
medical supplies (including Baxter) will be required to report to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) all pa yments 
(such as consulting fees, travel and lod ging, meals, education grants and royalties) provided to U.S. healthcare professionals (HCPs) 
and healthcare organizations (HCOs) that total more than $100. In response to the Sunshine Act, which was passed into law as part of 
U.S. healthcare reform 2010, Baxter implemented a program designed to address all applicable requirements and to help ensure 
compliance. Baxter employees continue to complete training to understand the law, Baxter’s updated systems and policies, and their 
individual role in ensuring c ompliance.  
 
International Anticorruption Activities  
During 2012, Baxter’s Ethics and Compliance team, working closely with other groups and functions in the company, continued t o 
adapt its procedures, systems and tools to advance its anticorruption progra m. One of the tools includes periodic assessments and 
reviews of Baxter’s global operations with regard to key corruption risks. A total of 20 compliance audits were conducted in 2012 
utilizing Corporate Audit and Ethics and Compliance resources. The audit s took place in nine countries in EMEA, four countries in 
Latin America, six countries in Asia Pacific and two in North America. Assessment results have shown continued progress in 
awareness, understanding and implementation of Baxter’s anti -corruption programs.  
Also in 2012, Baxter continued global execution of its International Anticorruption Third Party Policy, with particular empha sis on 
business partners who interface with non -U.S. healthcare professionals and government agencies in activities such as, but no t limited 	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics- compliance/structure -and-programs.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    8 to the approval, registration, promotion and sales of Baxter’s products and therapies.  
 
This multi -facetted program includes a robust process to conduct due diligence on such business partners, as well as to retain and 
train them with respect to  anticorruption laws and Baxter’s standards and expectations. In 2012, Baxter also deployed a system to 
automate the due diligence process and enhanced training provided to third parties. The success of the third party program re lies on 
extensive, ongoing  collaboration between Baxter’s Ethics and Compliance, Legal and business teams, as well as with the company’s 
business partners.  
Because anticorruption efforts can be impeded or enhanced by others in the industry, Baxter also is committed to establishing  and 
improving industry codes of conduct and enhancing ethical behavior across the healthcare industry. Baxter continued to share the 
company’s perspectives with Eucomed and AdvaMed on a European approach to third party anticorruption efforts. Additionally, 
Baxter’s China ethics and compliance team continues to work with the Chinese industry association, RDPAC on an industry -wide 
ethical sales and marketing code.  
Trade Compliance  
In 2012 the company launched a Trade Compliance Council to help drive Baxter’s trade compliance policy globally. In addition,  the 
company continues to identify and train a network of trade compliance officers  globally, who are tasked with spotting and handling 
basic trade compliance issues in their countries and functions, and seeking advice from their designated trade compliance exp ert as 
warranted. Baxter also continues to enhance tools and processes to scre en for and address trade compliance risks involving its 
products and business transactions. Additionally, the company improved its Export Control and Economic Sanctions trade compliance e -learning course with new and engaging story -based training on the to pic. Key employee groups are required to 
complete this course, which is designed to raise awareness about global export controls and economic sanctions, regulations a nd 
related company policies. The course also focuses on Baxter's procedures, as well as th e responsibility of employees to ensure 
compliance in this area.  
 
Data Privacy and Security  
In the course of business, consumers, patients, plasma donors, healthcare professionals, employees and others share personal 
information with Baxter. Privacy laws and our global privacy policy  require the company to protect this information. The company’s 
policy defines Baxter’s privacy standards and ensures that all of the com pany’s global operations follow similar controls for protecting 
the personal information of Baxter stakeholders. All employees have completed an online training course on the policy.  
 Baxter’s global privacy program includes a Global Privacy Council and a  network of Local Privacy Owners (LPOs).The council 
manages and oversees the protection of personal information companywide while the LPOs are responsible for privacy compliance  in 
their respective countries. Canada, the United States and all countries in Europe have LPOs in place. The company will introduce the 
privacy program in selected countries in the Asia Pacific and Latin America regions in 2013.  
 Closely aligned with data privacy is information security. Baxter’s Information Technology (IT) Risk Go vernance Board meets quarterly 
to ensure appropriate accountability, priority and decision -making relative to IT risks. A cross- functional Information Governance 
Council oversees organizational responses to security, privacy and legal information risks. Th e company also has a robust Information 
Protection program, complete with global policies, organizational awareness mechanisms and compliance systems, to enforce 
appropriate use and protection of Baxter information and technology.  
 
In 2012, Baxter impleme nted additional security technologies to identify and protect sensitive electronic business information , while 
extending the company’s capability to log, monitor and manage information stored internally and sent externally via e -mail and other 
network transit, such as secure file transfer. This investment will help strengthen the company’s security capabilities and support its 
commitment to protect the best interests of customers, employees, management and other stakeholders.  
 
See Product Use  for detail about advertising and promotion.  
 
Employee Perspective 
“Being compliant should be a key value to all of us: a way of living, not just a training or an exercise we perform once or twice 
a year.”  
        -Marlene, Sales and Marketing Manager, Netherlands  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics- compliance/communication -and-guidance.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    9	  Communication and Guidance  
Open communication is at the core of Baxter’s commitm ent to integrity. The organization offers numerous channels to educate and 
counsel employees as well as confidential avenues to report suspected violations of law and policy, which it investigates pro mptly and 
reports to senior management as appropriate. M anagers are responsible for maintaining an environment that enables employees to 
safely raise and discuss issues. Baxter encourages employees to seek guidance and report concerns through a number of formal 
channels (see graphic). In this way, Baxter preven ts incidents from occurring and addresses issues when they do arise.  
 One such channel is the Baxter Ethics and Compliance Helpline, a telephone and Web resource available to employees and their families, suppliers, customers and other Baxter constituenc ies. Callers can report an issue or seek guidance in their local language. 
Counselors are available in 150 languages, 24 hours a day, seven days a week. The Helpline is an independent channel of 
communication to raise issues and open communications about B axter's ethics and compliance issues. Persons calling the Helpline 
may choose to remain anonymous. There are no caller identification features attached to this line.
 
Baxter Ethics and Compliance Helpline  
Phone: 1 -877-BAXTER3  
Fax: 1 -847-948- 2867 
Web 
 
In 2012, 487 inquiries from 50 countries were logged into the Helpline system and addressed in a prompt, thorough and profess ional 
manner.  
 Not all of these inquiries were reports of alleged misconduct or related to compliance. In all cases, Baxter encourages employees to 
use the Helpline, COIC process and other channels to ask questions and seek advice. Items identified through these channels a lso 
help Ethics  and Compliance personnel to identify key risks, develop appropriate training, enhance policies and procedures, and 
design and conduct compliance assessments.  
 
Upon receipt of reasonable indications of suspected noncompliance, the Ethics and Compliance dep artment, working with other 
functions and in coordination with business leaders, will triage and investigate the allegations to gather the facts and take  appropriate 
remedial action where necessary. See Ethics and Compliance Communications and Reporting for more information.  
 
Employee Perspective 
“Building a reputation of integrity takes years, but it takes only a second to lose.”  
-Mohamed, Area Sales Dir ector, Middle Ea st
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2012 -report/starts -with-me.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Case Study: It Starts with Me  
"Compliance is not a task that  belongs to any one function. It is everyone's 
responsibility" Alex Wu, Director, Renal, Baxter China.  
Integrity is the foundation of Baxter's long -term success. Every day, Baxter's 
stakeholders around the world - including customers, patients, regulators,  investors 
and employees - count on the company's dedication to ethics and compliance. 
Baxter is committed to complying with the law in the more than 100 countries 
where it operates as well as driving a culture of ethics and compliance throughout 
the organ ization. 
 
As part of this commitment, in 2012, Baxter's Asia Pacific operations launched a new ethics and compliance program designed to drive a high- integrity culture. The 
three -pronged approach consists of: training and improving integrity -related 
leader ship skills; integrating compliance into HR processes, known as iComply; and 
launching a comprehensive communications program to reinforce a high -integrity 
culture.  
 "We are conscious that a disciplined approach toward the compliance process (as defined b y U.S. and local laws and industry codes) 
does not always come naturally to all employees," said Gerald Lema, region head, Japan. "Asia Pacific has a diversity of cult ures, a 
variety of legal frameworks and different levels of economic development so we ne ed to provide clear and direct guidance on how to 
ensure a disciplined process and decision -making, and which activities or actions are compliant and which are not. This requires 
continuous effort to ensure our employees work according to Baxter's high sta ndards."  
 The program includes the "It Starts with Me" campaign, which focuses on driving employee awareness and encouraging personal 
accountability for ethics and compliance. Employees also share real -world experiences, answering questions such as: If the y 
encountered a grey area, how did they handle it? What was the most difficult part of resolving the situation?  
"Compliance is not a task that belongs to any one function. It is everyone's responsibility," said Alex Wu, director, Renal, Baxter 
China. "Eac h of us has the responsibility to understand what the requirements are and choose to behave with integrity as we make 
decisions in our daily operations. We are our own role models. It starts with you and me."  
The program also includes an online newsletter, discussion group and workshops, an intranet site, toolkits with information on real -
world issues and solutions and contact information for Baxter colleagues who can provide assistance when questions or ambiguo us 
cases arise. Additionally, manag ers have access to toolkits to better enable them to drive a high -performance, high -integrity culture 
across the region.  
 Junho Byun, senior sales representative, Baxter BioSurgery, Korea, shared his team's story. "We experienced a challenge in a sub-
segment of our business," he said. "Instead of giving in to inappropriate demands, we chose to strategically diversify and focus o ur 
marketing and sales efforts on other sub- segments. It was not easy, but we overcame this challenge and at the end of the year, w e 
achieved 100% of our sales plan while staying true to our principles."  
 
 
Employees  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/index.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    2 Employees  
 
Providing a great place for Baxter's approximately 51,000 employees worldwide to work and develop is 
central to the company's vision. To help employees realize their full potential, Baxter offers a wide range of 
training and development opportunities as we ll as comprehensive compensation and benefits. Additionally, 
the company strives to create an inclusive and diverse work environment that provides employees with the 
flexibility to manage their work and personal lives.  
Baxter's workplace culture is define d by the shared values, competencies and personal attributes that employees need to succeed. 
With a common understanding of how to approach their work, Baxter employees know what to expect from one another, and how to 
achieve great results. These Baxter Le adership Expectations apply to every employee, every day and everywhere at Baxter.  
 
This section covers the following topics:  
• Talent Management  
• Sustainability Education  
• Compensation and Benefits 
• Measuring Company Culture  
• Global Inclusion and Diversity  
• Work/Life  
View a chart of  Baxter's  Global  Workforce . 
Talent Management  
As part of Baxter’s commitment  to being a great place to work and develop, the company believes in giving employees the 
opportunity to advance their knowledge, expand their talents and see their ideas come to life. Baxter focuses on the followin g areas to 
ensure the sustainability of i ts workforce and to drive a high -performing culture:   
• Leadership Expectations  
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/talent -management.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    3 • Individual and Corporate Goal Alignment  
• Succession Planning  
• Talent Development  
 
Leadership Expectations  
The Baxter Leadership Expectations ( see graphic), which provide the foundation for the company's culture, outline what the company 
expects of all employees. This framework includes the following:  
• Shared Values  - the beliefs and standards employees bring to their work;  
• Competencies  - the skills and knowledge necessary to achieve goals; and  
• Personal Attributes  - the characteristics and behaviors that enable employees to succeed at Baxter.  
The Leadership Expectations are fully integrated into recruiting, development, rewards and assessment practices.  
 
Individual  and Corporate Goal Alignment  
At Baxter, employees and teams align individual and organizational objectives to ensure that everyone is working to achieve c ompany 
goals. Individuals and teams companywide establish work plans and set specific, measurable ta rgets to help Baxter achieve its goals. 
Baxter's global goals focus on six categories  
Succession Management  
To ensure a robust leadership pipeline, the company assesses its talent through its organization inventory process. The CEO 
conducts an annual talen t review of Baxter’s business, regional and functional senior talent with the Operations Committee (i.e. senior 
management) to ensure that the company is meeting its global organizational effectiveness and workforce capability needs.The CEO 
also reviews de velopment and succession planning with the company’s Board of Directors. The Board of Directors oversees the 
succession management process to ensure rigor, effectiveness and support of the company’s diversity goals.  
The Corporate Governance Committee of th e Board of Directors oversees succession planning for the CEO.  
Talent Development  
Baxter’s career development philosophy emphasizes that development is a combination of work experiences, feedback and 
relationships, and training.  
The company believes that development should be:  
• A shared responsibility, owned by each employee, his or her manager and Baxter;  
• A process and not an event;  
• Focused on goals important to both the employee and Baxter; 
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/talent -management.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    4 • Focused on short -term actions as well as long -term career goals;  and 
• Achieved through work experiences, learning from feedback and relationships, and training.  
To support this process, Baxter launched the MyCareer@Baxter portal. The portal provides employees with development and plann ing 
tools, as well as comprehensive  information about performance expectations and goals, training opportunities and jobs at Baxter.  
The company also provides a wide variety of training and development resources through ISOtrain, the company’s global trainin g 
system. ISOtrain provides a cou rse catalog of more than 24,000 computer based and classroom offerings on topics such as Food and 
Drug Administration regulations, Good Manufacturing Practice guidelines and job specific skills. In 2012, employees globally 
completed more than 3 million hou rs of training, an average of 54 hours per employee.  
Online learning is available to all employe es, with courses offered in up to 20 languages. More than 950 e -Learning programs, 
including courses offered through ISOtrain, cover topics such as Baxter processes, systems and products; quality; leadership and 
career development; PC skills; environment, health and safety; pharmacovigilance; project management; and communication. 
Employees completed more than 199,000 e- Learning courses in 2012. Also see Ethics and Compliance  for information on legal and  
regulatory compliance training.
Additionally, Baxter continually enhances its employee performance assessment process. Managers review employee performance 
annually, and individual performance contributes to differen tiated rewards (see Compensation and Benefits). As part of the annual 
performance review process, both employee and manager identify strengths and development are as and then conduct ongoing 
discussions throughout the year. The company also encourages mid -year reviews to track development and performance.  
Baxter’s ongoing talent efforts contribute to the engagement and retention of its workforce. Voluntary employee turnover in 2012 was 
10.2% globally.  
Top Talent Development  
In 2012, Baxter hosted its Leadership Powerhouse program for top talent who hold critical leadership roles at the company. 
Developed in partnership with INSEAD , the program helps participants become effective top -level leaders by developing a global 
mindset and enhancing their critical and strategic thinking skills. The program, based on collaborative learning and network -building 
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/talent -management.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/sustainability -education.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All R ights Reserved    5 exercises, focuses on a variety of topics from, marketing strategies for the health sector to leading across cultures and developing into 
transformational leaders. It also leverages INSEAD’s Global Effective Leader Inventory to measure progress toward the program ’s 
goals and obje ctives. In 2012, 30 Baxter leaders participated.  
Training for Managers  
Baxter also provides managers and supervisors with tools and techniques to be effective leaders. The company's Management 
Essentials training helps participants develop and refine skil ls related to accountability, career and development planning, change 
management, coaching and feedback, communication, critical thinking and problem solving, facilitation, interviewing, and mana ging 
conflict and performance. During 2012, more than 1,900 m anagers completed at least one Management Essentials course.  
As managers progress from supervising individuals to leading teams, they face new challenges and demands. In 2012, Baxter hel d 27 
sessions of Leading for Results for experienced managers and dire ctors. It consists of live workshops, online courses and webinars to 
address aspects of the Baxter Leadership Expectations, including business acumen, motivating and developing others, critical 
thinking and problem solving, and communication. During 2012, nearly 240 employees completed at least one Leading for Results 
course.  
Baxter’s global online employee mentoring program helps connect mentors and participants based on customized profiles, so the y 
can share experiences and career -related knowledge. As of  2012, more than 1,700 employees have enrolled. Additionally, the Women 
and Ethnic Minority Mentoring program accelerates the upward movement of top talent women and minorities who are director lev el 
and above. The program matches participants with senior leaders from their respective business.  
Employee Perspective 
When it comes to my career development, even after 18 years, Baxter continues to provide me with fantastic opportunities to 
apply my skills, and to learn and develop new skills. What I find most rewarding is that I ’m expected to be a leader at Baxter, 
regardless of the function or role I am in.  
        -Hannah, Information Technology Manager, Los Angeles, California, United States  
 
Sustainability Education  
To help achieve Baxter’s sustainability goals, the company works to educate and engage employees in its sustainability initiatives. In 
Baxter’s 2011 Culture Survey , 77% of employees worldwide indicated that the company’s sustainability programs were important to 
them. The Sustainability Steering Committee reviews survey results to assess progress and identify opportunities for improvement in 
programs related to the environment, health and safety, inclusion, ethics and compliance, and other areas.  
Baxter engages and communicates with employees about its sus tainability efforts through various channels, including:  
• Quarterly all -employee webcasts during which CEO Bob Parkinson discusses sustainability;  
• Regular internal communications about sustainability practices at the company worldwide;  
• A sustainability Intranet site that provides success stories, tips and other tools to help engage employees on the company's 
sustainability priorities, and the ability for employees to provide feedback and ask questions about sustainability;  
• The annually updated Sustainability at Baxter brochure, which is available in several languages and is often shared during new 
hire orientation sessions;  
• Quarterly press releases highlighting achievements posted throughout facilities; and  
• Events focused on environmental initiatives and healthy living such as Baxter World Environment Week and BeWell@Baxter , and 
volunteerism to address local concerns such as healthcare and education.  
 
Employee Perspective  
I’m fortunate to say that my role within Baxter does indeed contribute to a greater good. Every day, I help provide guidance to 	  
http://www.sustainability.baxte r.com/employees/sustainability -education.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/compensation -and-benefits.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/measuring -company- culture.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights  Reserved    6 the company and its employees who seek to d o business with high integrity and in compliance with the law. I feel privileged 
to work for a company that’s considered to be a leader in sustainability.  
           -Peter, Senior Counsel, Deerfield, Illinois, United States  
Compensation and Benefits  
A critical component of Baxter's vision is to be a great place to work and develop. Central to this commitment, Baxter provid es its 
employees with comprehensive compensation and benefits programs. The company's global total compensation philosophy is to 
provide market -competitive pay and benefits while rewarding employees for strong individual and business performance.  
Baxter's total compensation package includes base salary and may include incentive pa y, such as cash bonuses and stock -based 
compensation. It also includes comprehensive benefits, which vary by region and country, to help employees meet their healthc are, 
income -protection, financial, retirement and time -off needs. Through the Employee Stoc k Purchase Plan (ESPP), Baxter employees 
can share in the company's growth. The ESPP allows employees to purchase Baxter common stock each month at a 15% discount 
through convenient payroll deductions with no brokerage fees, subject to certain limitations.  For information on executive 
compensation, click here. 
Baxter values the health of its employees and their families and recognizes that a healthy, productive workforce is vital to achieving 
company goals. As part of Baxter's commitment  to employee health and wellness both on the job and at home, Baxter offers many 
programs and resources to help employees meet their personal goals and family needs (see Work/Lif e). Additionally, BeWell@Baxter, 
the company's health and wellness program, is designed to help employees stay well through education and prevention, take act ion 
to make healthy lifestyle changes and deal with chronic or acute condition s.
Measuring Company Culture  
Every two years, Baxter conducts a companywide survey to gather employee feedback on what is going well and areas where the 
company needs to make improvements. Approximately 89% of Baxter's employees worldwide completed the company’s survey in 
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/measuring -company- culture.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/global -inclusion -divers ity.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    7 2011, which was administered in 17 languages. In line with prior survey results, the company’s dedication to quality products and 
customer focus remain the highest -scoring areas. Baxter will conduct another survey in 2013.  
Based on the 2011 survey results,  Baxter identified the following areas for improvement:  
Continuous improvement:  Employee feedback reinforced the importance of the company’s 2011 transformation initiative to drive 
continuous improvement and accountability . These are core to Baxter’s effort to build a culture where every employee continuously 
evaluates how they can be more efficient and effective in their work.  
Clarity Around Strategy and Innovation: Emplo yees provided feedback that they want improved clarity about the company’s 
strategy and more information about how Baxter is driving innovation. The company is addressing this through a variety of int ernal 
communication channels.  
Global Inclusion:  While Ba xter showed improvement in this area compared to 2009, global inclusion continues to be a focus area for 
the company. In 2012, as part of a phased global launch, Baxter rolled out The Power of Managing Inclusively, a six -hour instructor -
led, mandatory work shop for all managers, supervisors and above. Learn more.  
Employee Perspective 
Baxter is a great fit for me because each day brings new challenges and opportunit ies that help me grow personally and 
professionally. I believe that through our collective efforts, Baxter’s legacy of helping save and sustain the lives of milli ons of 
people globally will continue to flourish. That’s what I want my career to be about an d that’s why I’ve chosen Baxter.  
       -Will, Senior Marketing Manager, Deerfield, Illinois, United States  
Global Inclusion and Diversity   
Having a diverse employee population (for example, in terms of age, gender, sexual orientation, race, ethnicity or religion)  is essential. 
However, diversity alone does not ensure an inclusive culture. An inclusive organization has policies, programs, processes an d 
systems that foster respect and create a workplace culture in which everyone is valued.  
Baxter believes that an inclusive culture and a diverse workforce can contribute to the company’s success and sustainability by 
driving innovation and creating trusted relationships with employees, customers, suppliers and community partners. This think ing 
forms the foundation of  Baxter's global inclusion and diversity strategy, which is directly linked to one of the company's shared values 
– respect for individuals and the diverse contributions of all. In addition to helping the company attract, motivate and retain  a diverse 
work force globally, Baxter’s focus in this area helps the company understand and address the diverse needs of our employees, 
customers, business suppliers, patients and caregivers. Baxter's global inclusion and diversity strategy focuses on four key areas:  
• Workforce  - building a diverse organization globally;  
• Workplace  - creating an inclusive culture in that values diversity;  
• Communities  - building partnerships with community -based organizations that embrace and support diverse stakeholder 
groups; and  
• Marketpla ce - promoting Baxter's commitment to inclusion through its brand, customers and supplier relationships.  
Learn more about Baxter’s programs and progress in the following areas:  
• Global  Inclusion  Council  
• Inclusion  and Diversity  Training 
• Business  Resource  Groups  
• 2011 Business  and Regional  Initiatives  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/global -inclusion -diversity.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    8	  • Fair and Equal  Opportunity  for All Employees  
• Supplier  Diversity  
• Awards  
Global Inclusion Council  
Baxter’s Global Inclusion Council provides thought leadership, guidance and support to enhance the company’s inclusive cultur e. In 
collaboration with the Global Inclusion Council, businesses, regions and functions globally develop local inclusion plans. Th ese 
incorporate Baxter -wide opportunities, in addition to addressing unique local inclusion priorities and requirements. This customized 
approach recognizes that different geographies have unique needs. The Council works closely with Baxter’s Human Resourc es 
Leadership Team and Sustainability Steering Committee, which ensures alignment and support among the company's senior 
leadership. 
Inclusion and Diversity Training  
As part of a phased approach in 2012, Baxter launched ‘The Power of Managing Inclusively’,  a six-hour instructor -led, mandatory 
workshop for all managers, supervisors and above. During the year, more than 2,300 employees completed the training, achievin g the 
company’s 2012 goal to have 25% of the target population complete the workshop.  
Since 2011, all Baxter employees have completed a companywide training designed to educate employees on how they can 
contribute to an inclusive culture at Baxter. In 2012, Baxter again required employees to add an inclusion goal as part of th eir 
individual goals for the year. Similar to 2011, Baxter's senior executives were held accountable for fostering an inclusive work 
environment, and hiring and promoting qualified diverse candidates.  
Business Resource Groups  
Business Resource Groups (BRGs) provide a forum for  employees to develop skills, experience valuable cultural connections and 
support key business initiatives. These groups support Baxter’s business goals and aim to enhance personal growth and multicu ltural 
understanding, while strengthening relationships among employees and with customers, business partners and community partners. 
In 2012, Baxter launched three additional BRGs: the African -American Leadership Council, the Asian Leadership Network, and the 
Baxter Equality Network(supporting inclusion of LGBT professionals and allies). The company’s other BRGs include Building Women 
Leaders and Latinos@Baxter, and the Female Talent Matters BRG in Baxter’s Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) region. Each 
BRG is sponsored by a members of Baxter’s Operations C ommittee.  
2012 Business and Regional Initiatives  
Baxter’s BioScience business:  BioScience launched Women in Lifetime Leadership (WILL) for employees in the EMEA region. WILL 
seeks to create a dynamic forum to develop leadership skills and advance the caree rs of women by providing education and 
networking opportunities. WILL aims to develop women leaders who champion and support inclusion and diversity efforts across 
Baxter. Additionally, the business launched a recognition program for individuals and teams who promote a culture of inclusion and 
diversity.  
 
Baxter’s Medical Products business:  Medical Products launched an inclusion and diversity task force that includes 19 
representatives from the business’s franchises, regions and supporting functions. The t eam has been active in creating new vehicles 
to engage and educate employees, partnering with business leaders to embed inclusion and diversity principles into business 
processes such as R&D and business development, and has played a prominent role in seve ral key external events. Additionally, the 
task force has partnered with Baxter’s BRGs to focus on the acquisition, development and retention of women and diverse talen t 
within Medical Products. Both Baxter’s BioScience and Medical Products businesses cont inue to expand the Women and Ethnic 
Minority Mentoring program.  
 
Baxter’s EMEA region:  During the year, the region added a fifth category to its prestigious Presidents Award to specifically recognize 
individual or team efforts in the area of inclusion and diversity. In Austria, Baxter launched an intergenerational inclusion  initiative 
called “Boomers and Millennials,” matching Baxter employees who are recent college graduates with senior, long -term Baxter 	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/global -inclusion -diversity.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    9	  employees to facilitate exchange of ideas on how the different generations can collaborate effectively and learn from each ot her.  
 
Baxter ’s Asia Pacific region: The region continued its focus on Building Talent Edge (BTE), which aims to create a gender balance in 
critical leadership positions across 14 countries where Baxter operates. Gerald Lema, region head, Japan, spoke at the presti gious 
2012 Catalyst Awards Conference sharing insight on how to maintain the success of the BTE initiative. In 2012, two countries within 
the region were recognized by their respective governments for their inclusion and diversity efforts. Baxter Korea receive d the “Best 
Family Friendly Management Company” award by the country’s Ministry of Gender Equality and Family, recognizing Baxter’s 
commitment to work/life balance. Every year, the Ministry recognizes the top 10 companies that promote effective approaches to 
creating a family -friendly work environment. The Australian government's Equal Opportunity for Women in the Workplace Agency 
(EOWA) recognized Baxter with the Employer of Choice for Women citation in 2012. The EOWA publicly acknowledges organizations  
for their efforts in making gender diversity a strategic imperative, promoting flexible working arrangements, ensuring men and women 
can access opportunities to develop their careers, and ensuring gender pay equity.  
 
Baxter’s Latin America and Canada (LAC) region:  In 2012, the region sponsored its first annual Inclusion and Diversity Week. 
Throughout the week, teams across the region participated in a variety of activities including town hall meetings, volunteer 
opportunities and training sessions. At the Sã o Paulo, Brazil manufacturing facility, both hearing and hearing -impaired employees 
participated in a training session that covered topics such as the use of sign language in the workplace. Efforts in Cuernava ca, 
Mexico, included a photo exhibition designed to drive awareness around the contributions and unique needs of Baxter employees 
with disabilities.  
Fair and Equal Opportunity for All Employees  
Baxter is committed to equal opportunity for all employees, and recognizes that every individual's unique ba ckground and 
experiences contribute to a successful organization.  
Discrimination in hiring, promotion and all other employment decisions on the basis of race, color, religion, gender, nationa l origin, 
age, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity or  expression, veteran status or any other basis protected by federal, state or local 
laws is prohibited. Baxter's global operations comply with applicable laws around the world. Employees are encouraged to rais e any 
issues or concerns through one of the cha nnels outlined in Baxter’s "Prohibition of Workplace Harassment" policy.  
The tables below illustrate Baxter's ethnic and gender diversity at various levels in the company.  
Board and Executive Leadership Diversity  
 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 
Ethnic (% non- white of total)  
Board of Directors  7.7%  7.7%  7.7%  8.3%  23.1 
Executive Management*  11.1 11.1%  17.7%  11.8%  12.5%  
Gender (% female of total)  
Board of Directors  15.4%  15.4%  15.4%  16.7%  23.1%  
Executive Management*  27.8%  27.8%  17.6%  17.6%  18.8%  
*The data set of Executive Management has been expanded to align with Executive Management listed in Baxter’s Annual Report on  Form 10- K filling with the 
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  
Gender Diversity at Baxter (% Female Globally)  
 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 
Vice President and 
Above  18.5%  19.2%  19.8%  21.5%  21.4%  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/global -inclusion -diversity.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    10	  Supervisor/Director  48.1%  48.5%  47.85%  48.0%  47.8%  
Non-Manager  56.3%  55.8%  55.4%  54.1%  53.6%  
Overall  52.8%  52.5%  51.9%  51.3%  50.8%  
* 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 figures do not include  Baxter Credit Union employees, which were approximately 0.1% of the total population.  
Supplier Diversity  
Baxter works to develop mutually beneficial relationships with small and diverse suppliers. The company plans to continue exp anding 
the diversity of i ts supplier base to reflect the demographics of Baxter's customers. See Supplier Diversity for more information.  
Awards  
Several leading organizations have recognized Baxter for its inclusion and diversity efforts in 2012:  
• 250 Best Companies to Work for in  Mexico - Great Places to Work Institute  
• Best Companies to Work for in Spain - Actualidad Económica  
• Best Family Friendly Management Company - Korea Ministry of Gender Equality and Family 
• Employer of Choice for Women- Australian Government, Equal Opportunity  for Women in the Workplace Agency -Australia  
• Family Friendly Company Conciliation and Equality Certificate (Portugal) - MasFamilia Foundation  
• Unique Award -J-Win Diversity Awards from Japan Women's Innovative Network- Japan  
Click here  for a comprehensive list.  
 
Employee Perspective 
“It is very rewarding to know that the work I do contributes to Baxter’s mission. I work with a diverse group of people who 
share the common goal of improving healthcare for everyo ne. As a manager, I’m directly involved with evaluation and 
qualification of materials used in Baxter products. My team has tested virtually every Baxter product currently on the market  
to help ensure our products are safe. Our innovative approach to work ing with patients and doctors to understand how our 
products are used helps us to develop products that improve patients’ quality of life.”  
      -Deborah, Research Manager II, Research, Round Lake, Illinois, United States  
Work/Life  
Baxter believes that managers and employees share the responsibility to achieve a healthy blend of work, personal and family life.  
Baxter's global operations collaborate with external organizations, as appropriate, to develop and implement work/life progra ms. All of 
the programs and resources listed below are  available in the United States and many are available globally:  
• Adoption assistance and reimbursement;  
• Alternate work arrangements;  
• Back -up/emergency child and elder care;  
• Child care support options;  
• Dependent -care flexible spending accounts;  
• Educati onal assistance;  
• Eldercare management services;  
• Employee assistance and counseling programs;  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/global -inclusion -diversity.html  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/cas e-studies/2012 -report/bax -to-school.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    11	  • Lactation rooms;  
• Resource and community referrals to local service providers for family, financial and work issues; and  
• Webinars on topics such as stress management and parenting (in English but offered worldwide).  
More than 30 percent of eligible employees (regular employees working at least 20 hours a week) used one or more of these pro grams 
in 2012. Baxter estimates con servatively that it realizes more than $5.30 of benefit for every dollar invested in work/life programs 
through reduced absenteeism and enhanced productivity. This estimate is based on employee surveys and program utilization data to 
compare the value of e stimated employee time saved to the total cost of the program.  
Alternate Work Arrangements  
Alternate work arrangements help to meet employees' needs for flexibility while supporting Baxter’s business goals. The compa ny’s 
Alternate Work Arrangement Proposal Kit assists employees and managers in reviewing the steps required for proposing and 
reviewing requests for flexibility within the scope of an existing position.  
Determining the most appropriate alternate work arrangement typically takes into account the employee’s job requirements, personal 
needs, and work performance, as well as business needs and goals.  
Employee Perspective  
“I joined Baxter while completing my master’s degree in physics. I received a friendly welcome, on -the-job training and a 
work schedule that was very accommodating to my intense research schedule. What I’ve discovered is that there are a 
number of ways to be creative and contribute at Baxter. There’s an atmosphere of inclusion, where everyone’s ideas are 
valued and respected.”  
     -Michael, Quality Associate II, BioLife Plasma Services, Deerfield, Illinois, United Stat es
Case Study: "Bax" to School:  
Building Skills, Changing Lives  
Partnering with colleges and universities, Baxter offers manufacturing employees 
training opportunities to build fundamental life skil ls as well as necessary job skills, 
and prepare for new challenges in the workplace.  
Since 2008, Baxter's Los Angeles manufacturing facility has provided over 1,100 of 
their approximately 1,500 employees with customized training, at no cost to the 
employee . This has been made possible through a strong workforce development 
partnership established with Los Angeles Valley College (LAVC). 
During scheduled shutdown periods, employees receive training in various topics 
such as computer applications, conflict res olution, decision making, ergonomics, 
lean manufacturing, presentation skills, problem solving, team building and 
workplace/effective communication. Employees who completed general education 
courses during extended shutdowns received course credit towards an Associate's 
degree. In addition to receiving training, Baxter employees also spend time 
volunteering with non -profit community organizations as part of the program.  
LAVC also recruits new manufacturing technician talent for Baxter. More than 80 manufacturing technicians have been hired as 
temporary employees through a 5 -week Manufacturing Technician Bridge Training Academy program established to develop and train 
unem ployed individuals who wish to interview and work at Baxter. 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2011 -report/disease -prevention.html  
© Copyright 201 2 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved. Maggie Roudsari was unemployed two years ago when she started classes in the 
bridge program. Impressed with her commitment and performance, Baxter offered 
her a temporary manufacturing role after  she completed four weeks of learning. She 
then quickly qualified for a full -time job, operating centrifuges to separate proteins 
from plasma to make life -saving and sustaining products for Baxter's BioScience 
business.  
"I knew what to expect when I began to work for Baxter," she said. "I was set up to 
succeed. I could come in and shine, and grow with the company and keep learning."  
Today, Maggie is continuing her class work, including taking a biology course about 
proteins, and plans to pursue a degree in BioScience Technology through LAVC 
during the next two years.  
"I've never encountered a company that offered so much knowledge and support to 
help me grow individually and professionally," she said. "And Baxter is great at promoting from within, which mean s more 
opportunities."  
Since 2007, Baxter's Mountain Home, Arkansas, plant has offered "BaxTech" - in partnership with Arkansas State University -
Mountain Home - to grow manufacturing skills and help employees move into Production Technician roles. Instruct ors from the 
university and Baxter employees teach classes onsite at the plant.  
Approximately 12 employees are chosen yearly to complete 174 hours of training, which includes a range of communication, math  
and technical courses. Five classes have graduated  so far.  
Mountain Home Plant Manager Glenn Burney is a believer in BaxTech. "BaxTech focuses on the new technologies coming into our 
plant. This allows employees to receive training and knowledge before they move into these more technical roles."  
At Baxter 's manufacturing facility in Cleveland, Mississippi, employees have been able to pursue on -site management and general 
education classes toward both a management certification and bachelor's degree through Delta State University. Ten employees have 
taken a dvantage of the on- site classes since 2011.  
Baxter also has partnered with Mississippi Delta Community College on a technical assessment for maintenance personnel. The 
assessment results have been used to develop a customized curriculum to help employees b uild the necessary technical skills to 
support our growing technology needs.  
Around the world, Baxter provides a wide variety of training and development resources for manufacturing and other employees to 
apply to their current role and develop their caree rs. Baxter also offers educational assistance and tuition reimbursement that varies 
based on location.  
"Our focus in Manufacturing on training and development makes employees and the company stronger." Burney said, "It allows ou r 
employees the opportunity to learn the new skills needed for these processes and positions the employees and the plants for the 
future." 
	  
 
Environment, Health and Safety  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/e nvironment -health- safety/index.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       2 
Environment, Health and Safety  
 
Baxter's Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) organization manages and coordinates global programs and 
activities to reduce the company's environmental impacts, to create safe and healthy workplaces, and to advance product stewardship across Baxter.  
This report covers the second year of performance against the company's EHS 2015 goals , which are integrated into the company's 
overarching sustainability priorities . 
EHS results from 2012 include the following:  
• Baxter reduced energy usage by 27% and associated greenhouse gas emissions  by 39% since 2005, both indexed to revenue. 
During that period, global energy management initiatives have achieved cumulative savings of approximately $34 million on an 
annualized basis.  
• The company reduced waste generation  23% compared to 2005, indexed to revenue. Baxter’s ongoing efforts to reduce plastic 
waste generation t hrough the use of Lean and Six Sigma tools helped reduce plastic waste by more than 700 metric tons in 2012 
compared to 2011 at the 19 facilities participating in the company’s plastic scrap reduction initiative.  
• Baxter reduced water usage  by 5% in absolute terms and 34% indexed to revenue since 2005. In 2012, the company initiated a 
community water project near its Canlubang, Philippines, facility and entered into a partnership to implement a project near its 
facility in Cuernavaca, Mexico. See Case Study: Community Water Project in Canlubang, Philippines .  
• Compared to 2011, Baxter improved its recordable case rate by 5%, its cases with days lost rate by 3%, and its days lost rate  by 
21%.  
Scope of Baxter EHS Reporting 
• The environmental data included in this report are based on 115 reporting locations, of which 54 are manufacturing, 20 are 
warehou se, and 41 are administrative, clerical or other. Several of the reporting units comprise multiple locations that report as a  
single entity. For example, in 2012, 36 renal distribution facilities reported as a single entity, as did Baxter's 63 plasma collection 
centers in North America
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/index.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/ehs -program/policy -and-vision.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/ehs -program/program -governance.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reser ved      3 
• The health and safety data included in this report are based on 270 reporting locations.1 
• Regional breakdowns for EHS data are as follows: Asia Pacific; Latin America; Europe, Middle Eas t and Africa; and North America
• The EHS information reported covers 100% of Baxter's operations.  
• EHS data are revised to reflect acquisitions, divestitures and plant closings as well as to incorporate any corrections necessary due 
to additional data verification activities (such as EHS audits).  
 1The scope of Baxter's health and safety data is different than the scope of the company 's environmental data because Baxter's occupational injury and illness 
accounting includes smaller facilities that are not material to the company's overall environmental performance or are report ed as individual operations rather 
than as combined location s. 
 
EHS Vision and Policy  
Baxter Environment, Health and Safety Vision  
To achieve a sustainable enterprise that creates stakeholder value by advancing superior environmental stewardship, the highe st level 
of employee health and well -being , and an injury -free workplace.  
Baxter Environment, Health and Safety Policy  
Our Commitment to People and the Environment 
Baxter will be a global leader in Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) management. This is consistent with Baxter’s busines s 
intere sts and code of conduct. Specifically, we commit to the following:  
Sustainability  - We will strive to conserve resources and minimize or eliminate adverse EHS aspects and hazards that may be 
associated with our products, services and operations.  
Employees - We will provide a safe and healthy workplace, striving to prevent injuries and illnesses, promoting healthy lifestyles and 
encouraging respect for the environment. We will ensure that our employees have the awareness, skills and knowledge to carry out th is 
policy.  
Compliance  - We will meet all applicable EHS laws and Baxter EHS requirements.  
Business Integration  - We will integrate EHS considerations into our business activities.  
Customers  - We will work with our customers to help them address their EHS n eeds.  
Suppliers and Contractors  - We will work with our suppliers and contractors to enhance EHS performance.  
Community and Government  - We will participate in community and government EHS initiatives.  
Baxter commits to continuous improvement in environmen tal, health and safety performance. We will set goals, measure progress and 
communicate results. 
Compliance with this policy is the responsibility of every employee.  
EHS Governance  
Baxter's environmental, health and safety (EHS) governance structure is des igned to help the EHS organization realize its vision, 
implement its policy, achieve its goals and help create long -term business value for the company. This includes contributing to Baxter’s 
sustainability strategies, programs and performance.  
EHS Organi zation and Reporting Structure  
Baxter's EHS organization, made up of more than 280 full -time equivalent employees around the world, manages the company’s EHS 
compliance requirements and risks. The organization wor ks with a diverse group of internal and external stakeholders to address 
emerging EHS issues and related business challenges. The EHS organization, including business group EHS support teams, has 	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/ehs -program/program -governance.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/ehs -program/ehs -goals.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       4 
reported to global manufacturing since 2003. EHS Legal and A udit Services reports to the Ethics and Compliance function of Baxter’s 
Legal department to preserve the objectivity of legal advice and the global EHS auditing function.
Each year, the EHS organization (see 
graph ic) undertakes a strategic planning 
proces s that entails setting short -term 
targets and long -term goals and 
determining the tactical plans and 
resources needed to achieve those. EHS 
Functional Teams provide input to Baxter’s EHS Leadership Team, composed of EHS directors and other leaders who esta blish and maintain the 
company’s EHS strategy, policy, global 
EHS requirements and goals . This 
ensures alignment, engagement and commitment throughout the global EHS organization.  
Baxter's vice president of EHS and sustainability meets at least once a year 
with the Public Policy Committee of  the 
company's board of directors. In 2012, he 
presented EHS performance updates and reported progress on related sustainability initiatives. In a separate board meeting, Chairman and CEO 
Robert L. Parkinson, Jr., discussed the 
broader sustainability progr am. 
EHS Performance 
Accountability  
In addition to the departmental EHS goals  
that are defined by the EHS organization, select EHS performance goals are incorporated into the performance objectives of 
Manufacturing and Operations leadership. In 2012, these included performance objectives concerning reductions in safety incid ents, 
energy and water use, and waste generation. In addition, the company disclosed in its most recent proxy statement  that sustainability is 
one of the areas covered by th e performance goals set for its CEO in 2012, and such goals factored into decisions related to his 
compensation.  
EHS 2015 Goals  
Baxter's Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) organization conducts strategic planning to establish long -term EHS goals, assess 
related resource needs and ensure critical business alignment. The company considers feedback from internal and external stakeholders in establishing its long -term goals. Operational EHS goals are established on an annual basis and include targets related 
to energy, waste and water reduction as well as safety. These are a part of many senior managers' and plant managers' annual 
performance objectives. Yearly manager performance evaluations, including considerations related to compensation, take into a ccount  
business unit and facility progress in these areas. In 2012, annual bonuses for leaders in the manufacturing organization wer e tied to 
the company's performance along these dimensions.  
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/ehs -program/ehs -goals.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       5 
The following  table summarizes performance against Baxter's EHS 2015 goals. The company recognizes the importance of aspirational 
targets and in 2011 launched these goals, some of which align with Baxter’s overarching sustainability priorities. See Priorities and 
Goals – Our Operations and Products  for additional detail.
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/ehs -program/ehs -goals.html  
© Copyright 20 13 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       6 
 
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/ehs -program/ehs -management -systems.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       7 
EHS Management Systems  and Certifications  
Baxter's global Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Policy  and EHS requirements provide the foundation for the company's EHS 
program, establishing the minimum standards all facilities must meet and maintain. These requirements are designed to protect  
employees and company assets, minimize environmental impact, reduce company risk, and enhance Baxter’s reputation and EHS 
leadership. Baxter assesses all of its facilities using the same performance measurement system.  
Baxter's EHS program follows a management -systems approac h guided by its global EHS requirements. The company applies the 
International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001 Environmental Management System Standard to systematically manage its 
environmental programs, and the Occupational Health and Safety  Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001 to properly manage hazards that 
pose risk to employees.  
Successful ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 assessments verify that a facility's management system enables compliance with relevant 
regulations and company policy. Following a successful corporate EHS audit, Baxter’s external auditing and certification body would 
recommend a facility for certification to these standards. As of year -end 2012, 68 Baxter locations have met the requirements of ISO 
14001 and are covered by Baxter’s  ISO 14001 group certificate. As of year -end 2012, 57 Baxter locations were certified to OHSAS 
18001. See map for detail and more information about these certifications below.  
In 2010, Baxter approved an EHS policy that requires new sites or those undergo ing major modification to conduct a “green building” 
review. The company encourages certification to international building rating standards such as the UK’s Building Research 
Establishment Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM), the U.S. Green Building Council’s 
Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED), or the Swiss certification for building energy consumption, Minergie. As of year -end 2012, five 
Baxter locations were certified to green building standards. See map for detail and more informa tion 
about these certifications below.  
View a list of Baxter facilities around the world that have achieved these certifications in the online report.  
ISO 14001 Certification  
Baxter generally requires third -party certification to ISO 
14001 for the company’ s manufacturing and research 
and development sites, and distribution sites with a capacity of more than 10,000 filled pallets or a 
workforce of 100 or more people. Facilities that do not 
meet these criteria still may choose to apply ISO 14001 standards and  seek certification to improve their 
environmental performance.  
OHSAS 18001 Certification  
Baxter recommends but does not require facility certification to OHSAS 18001. Manufacturing, research and development, and distribution sites that have achieved third -party ISO 14001 certification generally 
also pursue third- party OHSAS 18001 certification, as 
it helps improve a facility’s health and safety pro grams. 
 
	  
http:/ /www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/ehs -program/ehs -management -systems.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/ehs -program/ehs -audits.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       8 
Global EHS Certifications  
In 1997, Baxter began to certify a group of facilities to ISO 14001, working with ERM Certification and Verification Services , the 
company’s external auditing and certification body. Since then, Baxter’s group ISO 14001 certification has evolved into a glo bal 
certification including 68 facilities worldwide.1 In 2007, Baxter also established a group certificate for OHSAS 18001.2  
With its global certifications, Baxter has improved consistency in facility evaluation and reduced external audit frequency a nd costs.
Green Building Certifications 
Examples of green buildings at Baxter include the following:  
• Canada  - Baxter’s office building in Mississauga, Ontario, has applied for Canada LEED certification. More than 90% of employees 
in the facility enjoy direct lines of sight outdoors, and controls enable 90% of occupants to adjust lighting for individual needs. One  
hundred percent of new wood -based materials are certified to Forest Stewardship Council standards.  
• Italy - In 2011, Baxter’s business office in Rome was the company’s first facility in Europe to receive existing building certificati on to 
the Italia LEED “ Silver” standard. An automation system controls heating and cooling on each side of the structure as the solar load 
changes throughout the day.  
• Switzerland  - Baxter’s European headquarters in Zurich achieved Minergie Plus certification in 2010. The buildin g features water -
based cooling and heating and rooftop solar panels, and uses nearly 80 percent less energy than a typical office building of 
comparable size.  
• United States  - The employee fitness center in Round Lake, Illinois, received LEED Silver certifi cation in February 2013. It features 
low-flow touchless faucets that use solar power to activate and run, reducing battery use, as well as daylight harvesting. All 
electricity is generated by 100% renewable power (through purchase of renewable energy certi ficates) and all carpeting, flooring 
and finishes use small amounts or zero volatile organic compounds.  
See Case Study: Employees and  the Environment Benefit from New Vienna, Austria, Green Building  in online report .  
1This covers the facilities described in the ISO 14001 Certification section above.  
2This covers the facilities described in the OHSAS 18001 Certification section above.  
EHS Audits  
Baxter's environmental, health and safety (EHS) audit process verifies that the company’s facilities have EHS programs that achieve 
regulatory compliance and meet Baxter’s EHS requirements, objectives and goals. The company selects facilities to audit based  on risk 
profile, management system certification needs and other factors, such as management turnover and negative EH S performance 
trends. In 2012, the company conducted EHS audits at 24 out of 109 applicable facilities. Of these, 11 were in Baxter’s Europ e, Middle 
East and Africa region; six were in North America; six were in Asia Pacific; and one was in Latin America.  
The company staffs its audit teams with professionals from the corporate EHS audit group and the EHS organization. ERM Certif ication 
and Verification Services conducts certification audits to the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001 E nvironmental 
Management System Standard and/or the Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001, as appropriate. When 
auditors identify gaps, the audit team works with facility management to ensure management fully understands the issues.  
Throughout the year, the EHS organization reviews the most common audit findings to systematically address identified issues,  
strengthen corporate policy when needed and prioritize company initiatives. The EHS organization’s functional teams then work  to 
address areas with the most findings. In 2012, these included inadequate risk assessments and gaps in emergency response plan s and 
implementation.  
Baxter requires closure of regulatory nonconformities within 60 days of an audit’s conclusion, and all other nonconformities within 180 
days. Baxter’s EHS Audit Escalation Procedure helps inform senior management of any overdue nonconformities.  
In addition to facility audits, Baxter also conducts targeted regulatory risk audits as warranted. In 2012, the corporat e EHS group 
included regulatory and EHS risk areas such as wastewater (two locations) and confined space (two locations) in the audit sch edule.  	  
http://www.sustainability .baxter.com/environment -health- safety/compliance/environmental.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       9 
Environmental Compliance  
Baxter assesses its performance in environmental compliance using several measures:  
Notices of violation (NOV)  - A written notice from a governmental agency that identifies environmental noncompliance.  
Environmental compliance incidents - Releases that exceed permit limits (exceedances) and other spills or releases that must be 
reported t o the government. Some of these exceedances may result in NOVs.  
Environmental fines - Fines related to environmental compliance issues.  
Baxter received nine environmental NOVs in 2012. Three were related to wastewater, compared to five in 2011. Five of the  remaining  
six were related to waste management. The final NOV was related to documentation posted in a facility regarding the European Union 
Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive.  
Baxter paid a $50,000 fine related to one of its waste manag ement NOVs, regarding gaps in the site’s leak -detection program, designed 
to prevent leaks in certain waste tanks, pipes and related equipment. The company paid no other environmental fines in 2012.  
Environmental Notices of Violation and Fines  
 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 
Wastewater NOVs  7 6 3 5 3 
Other Environmental NOVs  3 3 6 2 6* 
Total Environmental NOVs  10 9 9 7 9 
Total Environmental Fines* * $0 $800 $1,000 $9,985 $50,000 
* One of these NOVs also had aspects related to wastewater.  
** Fines paid during calendar year noted. In January 2013, Baxter’s Castlebar, Ireland, facility paid €19,376.20 (approximately $25,4 08) as a result of a 2012 court 
case related to environmental violations. Amounts paid in 2013 are not included in the table above.  
Baxter has a goal to decrease overall environmental compliance incidents 75% by 2015, compared to 2005. While Baxter has not made  
progress against this goal, it has minimized environmental compliance incidents at all but one of its facilities (see table a t the bottom of 
this page for detail). The company continues its commitment to reduce compliance incidents through 2015.  
Environmental Compliance Incidents   
 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012  
Air 1 4 2 0 0 
Land 1 1 1 1 0 
Drinking Water  0 0 0 0 0 
Wastewater  33 39 67 73 85 
Total  35   44 70 74 85 
 
 
 
 
 
 	  
http://www.sustainability .baxter.com/environment -health- safety/compliance/environmental.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       10 
 
 
In 2012, all of Baxter’s environmental compliance incidents 
related to wastewater. The graph the graph to the left  
provides a breakdown of wastewater incidents by type 
during the year.  
In 2012, 99% of Baxter’s wastewater -related compliance 
incidents occurred at facilities that discharge to regional or 
municipal wastewater treatment systems. The remaining 1% involved discharges to surface waterways, such as 
rivers, streams, or creeks.  
In the case of Castlebar, Ireland, Baxter’s ongoing 
communications with the Irish Environmental P rotection 
Agency resulted in a court proceeding in December 2012 in which Baxter agreed to take certain steps to correct the alleged violations. The court also ordered Baxter to pay a 
fine as noted above. Baxter continues to apply internal and 
external leg al and engineering resources to improve 
compliance at this facility. See Water and Wastewater  for 
more detail.
 
 The followin g table summarizes environmental compliance incidents in 2011, by facility.  
Environmental Compliance Incidents by Facility , 2012  
Region/Country/State or Province  City Description  
Europ e 
Ireland  Castlebar  Eighty- one wastewater incidents related to 
biochemical oxygen demand, biological 
oxygen demand loading, pH, flow, chloride, chloride loading and sulphate  
Italy Grosotto  One wastewater incident related to pH  
North America 
Canada, Ontario  Alliston  One wastewater  incident related to 
biochemical oxygen demand  
Puerto Rico  Jayuya  One wastewater incident related to copper  
United States, Mississippi  Clevelan d One wastewater incident related to copper  
  
Managing  Waste Liability  
To manage waste disposal appropriately and minimize the risk of future liability, Baxter requires facilities to dispose of al l hazardous or 
other regulated waste at disposal sites that Baxter has inspected or from which the company has otherwise received sufficient 
assurance of acceptable performance.  
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/compliance/environmental.html   
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/compliance/health -and-safety.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       11 
Baxter applies the same waste site auditing standards worldwide, and trains internal auditors to evaluate disposal site risk consistently. 
In additio n, Baxter works with CHWMEG, Inc., a non -profit organization that enables companies to collectively purchase expert waste 
site audits.  
Baxter is involved as a potentially responsible party (PRP) for environmental clean -up costs at seven hazardous waste sites. Under the 
U.S. Superfund statute and many state laws, generators of hazardous waste sent to a disposal or recycling site are liable for  site 
cleanup if contaminants from that property later leak into the environment. The laws generally provide that a P RP may be held jointly 
and severally liable for the costs of investigating and remediating the site. The estimated potential exposure to Baxter for the seven 
sites mentioned above was approximately $6.6 million at year- end 2012. Separate from the Superfund  cases noted above, Baxter paid 
approximately $170,000 for remediation at the company’s Irvine, California, United States, facility in 2012.  
Health and Safety Compliance 
In 2012, Baxter received two health and safety -related notices of violation (NOV):  
• One NOV was issued to Baxter’s Deerfield, Illinois, United States, administrative facility by the State Fire Marshall for failure  to 
submit financial assurance documentation, an annual requirement for facilities with underground storage tanks (USTs) that 
demo nstrates the financial ability to clean up potential contamination resulting from leaking USTs.  
• One NOV was issued to Baxter’s Quito, Ecuador, facility for deficiencies in its health and safety p rogram, including its emergency 
evacuation program and variou s other aspects of employee safety programs.  
The company implemented corrective actions to address these matters.  
As noted in Baxter’s 2011 Sustainability Report, in January 2011, three workers were involved in an accident in which one die d and the 
other t wo were injured at the company’s Los Angeles, California, United States, facility. The incident involved entry into a tank us ed in 
the plasma fractionation production process. Although agency investigations are ongoing, in 2011 the California Occupational Safety 
and Health Administration proposed citing Baxter with serious and willful civil violations and penalties related to this matt er. Baxter is 
appealing the citations and continues to cooperate with the agency. Baxter’s efforts to reinforce its safety p olicies and procedures are 
ongoing, particularly related to confined space. The company also is retraining workers involved in confined space entry, eva luating 
emergency response plans and training, conducting additional risk assessments, and sharing best practices throughout the company.  
 
Health and Safety Notices of Violation and Fines  
 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 
Citations Settled  2 6 3 2 2 
Fines Paid  
(in dollars)  $45,000*  $1,733 $945 $0 $0 
*The data reported includes a fine of $30,000 that Baxter paid in connection with a U.S. Federal Aviation Administration/hazardous materials transportation 
matter at its Tampa, Florida, United States, facility 
 
 
 
  
 
  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/environmental -performance/performance -at-a-glance.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.       12 
Environmental 
Performance At- a-Glance  
In 2012, Baxter continued working toward its 2015 
environmental, health and safety (EHS) goals. As the graph 
below illustrates, the company is on -target to meet or exceed 
its 2015 energy usage, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and 
water usage goals. While th e company advanced toward its 
total waste reduction goal in 2012, additional improvement is 
needed to meet this target. During the year, Baxter failed to 
make progress toward its environmental incidents -reduction 
goal due to wastewater exceedances at one l ocation in 
Europe. See Water and Wastewater for more detail.  
See Energy, GHG Emissions from Operations, Waste, Water 
and Wastewater, and Environmental Compliance in full report 
online for more detail.   
 
 
 
 
  
Environmental Financial Statement  
The table bel ow describes environmental income, savings and cost avoidance realized in 2012 from activities completed during the 
year, along with environmental program costs.  
Environmental Income, Savings and Cost Avoidance, 2012  (Dollars in Millions)   
Energy Use  $3.9 
Total Waste Generation  9.0 
Recycling Income  6.6 
Water Use  0.4 
Total Environmental Income, Savings and Cost Avoidance  $19.9 
Environmental Program Costs, 2012  (Dollars in Millions)   
Basic Program Costs  $22.5 
Remediation. Waste and Other Response Costs  12.8 
Total Environmental Program Costs  $35.3 
See the 2012 Environmental Financial Statement  online for more detail.  
 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/environmental -perfo rmance/air -emissions.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       13 
Air Emissions  
Due to an aggressive air toxics reduction program initiated in 1988, Baxter 
decreased toxic air emissions from its operations by more than 98% from 1988 through 2005. The company continues to monitor its air emissions and supports facility -led initiatives in this area. However, due to its low emissions 
levels, Baxter focuses its environmental programs and goals on other issues . 
Baxter's toxic air emissions decreased to approximately 25.6 metric tons in 2012, a 3% re duction in absolute terms from 2011, and a 49% reduction 
indexed to revenue since 2005. Di -2-ethylhexyl phthalate (DEHP) and 
methanol are the two most significant air toxics from Baxter operations. DEHP emissions decreased from 12.7 to 11.9 metric tons pri marily due to 
changes in PVC production volumes. Methanol emissions, associated with plasma processing, rose from 5.4 to 6.1 metric tons, mostly due to production increases. Baxter will continue to evaluate and install additional 
emissions control technolo gies where necessary and feasible to further 
reduce air emissions associated with certain manufacturing activities.  
Baxter calculates nitrogen oxide (NO
X) and sulfur oxide (SO X) emissions 
using reported facility fuel usage and emission factors from U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency Publication “Compilation of Air Pollutant Emission Factors, AP -42, Fifth Edition, Volume I: Stationary Point and Area 
Sources.” Baxter's combined NO
X and SO X emissions related to onsite fuel 
usage decreased by 21% in absolut e terms and 23% indexed to revenue 
from 2011 to 2012. Emissions of SO X decreased by 37% in absolute terms, 
and NO X emissions decreased by 5%. Baxter has reduced NO X and SO X 
emissions through energy conservation companywide and a transition from heavy fuel oils to lighter diesel fuels and natural gas at some locations. For 
example:  
• Lessines, Belgium  – During the last two years, the facility began 
operation of a co -generation system and switched from fuel oil to natural 
gas, essentially eliminating SO
X emissi ons. 
• India  – Two Baxter facilities switched from fuel oil to biomass fuels and 
another transitioned from fuel oil to natural gas, reducing SO X emissions 
by nearly 57% in 2012 compared to 2011. See Case Study: Facilities in 
India Switch to Greener Boiler Fuel  for more detail.  
• Cuernavaca, Mexico  – The facility switched from fuel oil to diesel in 
2012, reducing calculated SO X emissions by 47%.  
More than 50% of Baxter’s overall NO X emissions occur within North 
America, primarily due to the use of biomass for steam production at one of 
Baxter’s largest manufacturing sites.  
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/environm ental -performance/biodiversity.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/environmental -performance/ecoefficiency -raw-materials -use.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       14 
Biodiversity  
While biodiversity is not a focus of Baxter’s nine sustainability priorities , it is an element of Baxter's Bioethics Policy : "Baxter recognizes 
that protecting the environment and maintaining the biological diversity of our planet is of vital importance to human life."  By endorsing 
the Ceres Principles , Baxter has committed to preservation of the biosphere. Principle 1 states "we will safeguard all habitats affected 
by our operations and will protect open spaces and wilderness, while preserving biodiversity."  
Baxter owns or leases approximately 910 hec tares of land, about one -quarter of which is impermeable surface. Although 24 of Baxter’s 
59 manufacturing and research and development facilities are located in 11 of the world's biodiversity "hot spots"1 as design ated by 
Conservation International, the c ompany’s operations typically are located in light industrial areas in metropolitan regions. While Baxter 
does not require its facilities to report on activities to protect biodiversity, sites are required to understand their impact on the 
environment, and  incorporate conservation of biodiversity into their environmental management systems where appropriate.  
Activities in 2012  
During Baxter World Environment W eek, the company’s annual environmental awareness event, facilities globally conduct biodiversity 
and environmental -preservation activities. During 2012, facilities in 27 countries globally held eight local cleanups, one event to support 
watershed protecti on, two events to help restore native ecological diversity, 37 educational campaigns (including two focused on 
biodiversity) and six tree -planting events. Examples included: 
• India  – Employees of the Manesar facility planted approximately 300 trees in and a round the grounds.  
• Italy – Employees organized educational tours for local students to a bird preserve near Pisa, and an excursion to a nature preserve 
for children of employees at the Rieti facility.  
• New Zealand  – For the fourth consecutive year, the Auck land facility planted native trees as part of the Motuihe [Island] Restoration 
Project to help return the habitat to its original ecosystem. The site also helped reintroduce a native bird species that had  been 
eliminated by rodents.  
Other activities throughout 2012 included:  
• Greece  – Employees in the Athens office planted and maintain a vegetable garden that occasionally provides food for the site.  
• Italy – The office in Rome has helped protect and maintain the “Rio Bianco” Natural Area since 2010. Du ring 2012, the office 
continues financing the maintenance of this park, which helps protect the environment and biodiversity of the area.  
• Baxter facilities in the following countries planted a total of more than 1,450 trees during the year: Austria, Canada , Chile, China, 
Czech Republic, Germany, India, Italy, Mexico, Poland, Portugal, Puerto Rico, Switzerland, United States and Venezuela.  
Northern Illinois Efforts  
Environmentally Preferable Purchasing 
Under its Environmentally Preferable Purchasing Policy,  Baxter purchases Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) -certified paper for use in 
printers and copiers at its Northern Illinois sites, including the company’s Deerfield, Illinois, United States, headquarters , as well as 
other U.S. sites. FSC -certified paper su pports conservation, biodiversity and responsible forest management. Baxter’s Northern Illinois 
sites purchased 25 metric tons of FSC -certified paper in 2012.  
Chicago Botanic Garden 
Baxter has supported the Chicago Botanic Garden in Glencoe, Illinois, United States, for more than 25 years. The company contributed 
financially to the Chicago Botanic Garden Plant Science Center that opened in 2009. The center provides laboratories and teac hing 
facilities for more than 200 Ph.D. scientists, land managers, s tudents and interns, and is home to a unique doctoral program in plant 
biology and conservation in conjunction with Northwestern University.  
Baxter’s ongoing financial support helps the Garden’s scientists, researchers and students make vital discoveries a bout plant survival, 
habitat destruction, invasive species and restoration.  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/environm ental -performance/biodiversity.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/environmental -performance/ecoefficiency -raw-materials -use.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       15 
Additionally, Baxter sponsors the Garden’s annual celebration of World Environment Day in June, which focuses on community 
education. The company displays its sustainability effort s with an exhibit each year. Approximately 6,500 visitors attended this event in 
2012. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction  
Baxter’s continued efforts to reduce energy usage and associated greenhouse gas emissions  from its operations and broader activitie s 
also help protect biodiversity. Climate change alone may cause an estimated one -quarter of the earth's animal and plant species to 
become extinct or destined for extinction by 2050.2  
In 2011 the Center for Health and the Global Environment invited Baxter to join its Corporate Council, a group of six compani es 
supporting the center. Founded in 1996 by physicians of Harvard Medical School, in Boston, Massachusetts, United States, the center 
studies and promotes wider acceptance of the human health consequences of global environmental change. The center's Biodivers ity 
and Human Health Program informs policymakers and educates the public about the importance of preserving biodiversity thro ugh the 
lens of human health.  
1A Hot Spot is an ecosystem that is biologically rich and endangered. Baxter has manufacturing or research and development sites  in the following Conservation 
International Hot Spots: Atlantic Forest of Brazil, California Flor istic Province, Caribbean Islands, Chilean Winter Rainfall Forest, Indo -Burma, Japan, 
Mediterranean Basin, Mesoamerica, New Zealand, Philippines, Sundaland and Tropical Andes.  
2E.O. Wilson, "The Future of Life
Eco-Efficiency/ Raw Materials  
Efficient raw materials use has environmental as well as economic benefits. Baxter tracks the raw materials it uses in manufa cturing, 
such as plastic resins, corrugated materials and chemicals. In 2011, the company enhanced its data -collection process for these items 
and gathered more comprehensive data from across its regions. Due to more complete reporting from Latin America in 2012, the company showed significant increases in several categories of materials purchased, including plastics/resins, dextrose and sodium 
chloride.  
Major Materials Purchased for Manufacturing (Metric Tons)  
Material*,**  2011 2012 
Plastics/Resins  82,500 94,600 
Corrugated Materials  64,300 70,000 
Dextrose  21,600 27,700 
Sodium Chloride (salt)  17,700 22,900 
Amino Acids  1,400 1,400 
Pharmaceuticals (drugs)  51 44 
*Plastics/resins are used to make film for bags or accessory parts such as port tubes and over pouches and for solution sets i n Baxter's Renal products. 
Corrugated materials are widely used in the manufacture of corrug ated boxes and shipping containers used to package Baxter products. Dextrose is a simple 
sugar used to make solutions, which include Baxter's nutrition and intravenous (IV) products. Sodium chloride (salt) is mixed  with liquids for Baxter's parenteral 
solutions used for injection. Amino acids have many functions in metabolism, and act as the building blocks of proteins. At Baxte r their applications include 
biotherapeutics, regenerative medicines and vaccines. Pharmaceuticals (drugs) are chemical substances intended for use in the medical diagnosis, cure, 
treatment or prevention of disease.  
**Does not include raw materials usage from Baxter’s BioScience business.  
 
As the cost of many raw materials continues to rise, Baxter is implementing more aggressive materials -efficiency and waste -reduction 
efforts. Historically, the company has focused on scrap reduction and reuse through its Value Improvement Program. This initi ative 
encourages manufacturing facilities to identify and implement cost -savings projects,  often related to enhancing production efficiencies.  
Since 2010, Baxter has focused on reducing plastics scrap, its largest waste stream. See Waste  for more details. Many company 
plastic processing sites regrind and reuse pre -consumer plastic scrap to save money and materials. While numerous Baxter container 
systems incorporate as much as 35% reground plastic from the manufacturing process, re gulatory requirements prohibit Baxter from 
using post -consumer plastics in manufacturing. If plastic cannot be reused on -site, Baxter evaluates it for possible reuse at other 	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/environ mental -performance/energy- usage- and-ghg- emissions.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       16 
locations. If that is not feasible, the company sends it off-site for 
recycling.  
See Materials Use  for more information about how Baxter selects 
raw materials used in products.  
Packaging 
As illustrated in the table above, corrugated materials used for 
product packaging are one of Baxter's main uses of materials. See Packaging for details about the com pany's initiatives in this area and 
progress against its packaging reduction goal.  
Energy  
Managing energy use effectively enhances business efficiency and conserves natural resources. Reducing fossil fuel combustion improves air quality, decreases fine pa rticulates that contribute to 
adverse health effects, and reduces greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions . Limiting the use o f non -renewable energy sources also 
helps preserve their availability for future generations.  
Performance  
While energy conservation benefits the environment, it also makes 
good business sense for Baxter, since energy is among the company’s most significant  manufacturing costs. Since 2005, while 
Baxter increased sales 44% through 2012, the company held absolute energy usage from operations to an approximate 6% 
increase. However, due to sharply increasing energy prices, Baxter’s 
corresponding facility -related energy costs rose 56% during this 
period, to $173 million. This underscores the importance of the company’s ongoing energy conservation efforts. Since 2005, th ese 
initiatives have achieved cumulative savings of approximately $34 million on an annualized b asis.  
From 2005 to 2012, Baxter reduced energy consumption from operations by 27% indexed to revenue. This includes the energy used  by 
Baxter -managed and Baxter -operated facilities and excludes company -operated vehicles. This is on -track to meet the company’s 2015 
goal to decrease energy usage from operations by 30% indexed to revenue, compared to 2005.  
Changes in manufacturing processes and increased product development activities in 2012 raised energy usage across Baxter, 
compared to 2011. Additionally, t he installation and start up of natural gas -fired combined heat and power (cogeneration) systems at 
two Baxter facilities since 2005 has contributed to higher energy consumption in the Europe, Middle East and Africa region. 
Cogeneration systems increase a facility's overall energy footprint since power generation and transmission losses of as much as 55% 
that had previously been attributed to the generating utility are instead accounted for by the facility. However, this techno logy improves 
the overall effi ciency of energy utilization since the facility can capture and use the waste heat from electricity generation. To more 
accurately track performance, Baxter has adjusted historical electricity purchases at locations that operate cogeneration sys tems to 
include losses from generation and transmission normally associated with the utility. This helps the company more accurately assess 
energy efficiency performance over time at those sites.  
View more detail about Baxter's  energy usage and GHG emissions on the following page.
 
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/environ mental -performance/energy- usage- and-ghg- emissions.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       17 
 
 
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/environ mental -performance/energy- usage- and-ghg- emissions.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       18 
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/environmental -performance/energy.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       19 
The following graphs illustrate the breakdown of electricity and steam consumption for Baxter manufacturing facilities. The compa ny 
considers these data in targeting new energy -saving technologies, determining where to focus energy balances and setting 
requir ements in the Lean energy program. See Energy Conservation Initiatives below for examples of projects to enhance efficiency i n 
some of these areas.   
 
Baxter’s energy program incorporates three main components: energy balances; the Lean Energy Program; and  performance tracking 
and reporting.  
Energy Balances 
Energy balances are the foundation of Baxter’s energy program. They help identify new technologies for facilities to implemen t and help 
identify best practices to share across the company.  
An energy bala nce is an in- depth analysis of energy consumption at the site level. A team of experts assesses most of Baxter’s 
manufacturing sites every three to four years to understand how energy is consumed at each facility. The team spends approxim ately 
five days at  each location evaluating energy -consuming systems and reviewing electricity and fuel invoices to identify opportunities to 
improve efficiency and reduce GHG emissions and cost.  
To encourage the implementation of possible energy conservation projects ident ified as a result of energy balances, which often 
involves purchasing new equipment or upgrading current equipment, Baxter has reduced its minimum required internal rate of re turn for 
these initiatives by approximately 5% compared to other capital projects . 
In 2012, Baxter performed energy balances at the following 10 facilities: Toongabbie, Australia; Vienna, Austria; São Paulo, Brazil; Cali, 
Colombia; Castlebar, Ireland; Cuernavaca, Mexico; Woodlands, Singapore; Liverpool, United Kingdom; Irvine, California, and Aibonito, 
Puerto Rico, United States.  
As a result of energy balances, Baxter facilities worldwide are evaluating or implementing approximately 360 energy conservat ion 
projects that have potential annual savings of $8.7 million.  
Lean Energy Program  
In 2007, Baxter launched a Lean Energy Program for the company’s principal manufacturing facilities. The program includes fou r sets 
of Lean energy standards – Pre-requisite, Bronze, Silver and Gold. Each category defines 25 to 30 requirements a facility’s energy 
program must meet to qualify for that level, focused on the energy efficiency of facility processes and systems. See the tabl e below for 
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/environmental -performance/energy.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       20 
progress since 2007. In 2012, four additional Baxter sites qualified for Gold status in the Lean Energy Program,  bringing the total to 
eight sites.  
Lean Energy Program Performance  
[Percent of Program Criteria Implemented Across All Manufacturing Facilities, at Year -end] 
 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 
Pre-requisite  93%  98%  100%  100%  98%  99%  
Bronze   85%  94%  98%  95%  98%  
Silver    76%  89%  89%  91%  
Gold     54%  60%  71%  
*Changes in 2011 performance compared to 2010 are in part due to additional requirements added in 2011.  
Baxter has seen a clear correlation between a site’s Lean energy program level and its energy reduction performance.  
Performance Tracking and Reporting 
Baxter’s corporate energy management group distributes a quarterly report to the company’s senior management, plant managers and 
global energy managers. The report is a mechanism to evaluate performance and helps the company identify when performance is 
lagging so it can respond accordingly. It focuses on energy balances and the Lean Energy Program, emphasizing progress toward 
Baxter’s internal target of a 3 percent annual reduction in energy use per unit of production.  
Energy Conservation Initiatives  
Since 2005, Baxter’s global energy management initiatives have resulted in a total cumulative energy savings of approximately $34  
million on an annualized basis. Energy efficiency gains achieved in 2012 are due to the company's comprehensive implementatio n of its 
Lean Energy Program. Examples of projects implemented during the year include the following:  
• Belgium  – Baxter’s facility in Lessines implemented a series of projects to capture and reuse clean hot water previously discar ded 
with the site’s wastewater.  On an annualized basis, these projects helped reduce water consumption by nearly 85,000 cubic meters, 
energy usage by approximately 12,000 gigajoules, and carbon dioxide equivalent (CO 2e) emissions by more than 600 metric tons, 
while saving approximately $300,000 in energy and water.  
• India  – Baxter’s facility in Manesar installed variable frequency drives on key pumps and compressors for the chilled water and 
compressed air systems. The site also improved the insulation of steam distribution piping and va lves throughout the plant. These 
company projects will reduce energy use by nearly 3,000 gigajoules, reduce CO 2e emissions by approximately 680 metric tons, and 
save more than $115,000 annually.  
• United States  – Baxter’s facility in Hayward, California, co mpleted several energy conservation projects including the recovery and 
reuse of steam condensate, insulation of steam distribution piping, installation of energy efficient lighting, and the optimi zation of 
process cooling systems used for production. Thes e projects combined are expected to reduce facility energy usage by nearly 
3,900 gigajoules, CO 2e emissions by 200 metric tons and associated energy costs by $77,000 annually.  
Global Energy Management Activities  
Baxter senior management sponsors the compa ny's global energy management activities, which are part of an integrated energy -
conservation, cost -reduction and GHG emissions reduction program. The following groups participate in this program as noted:  
Group  Energy Management Activities  
Facilities En gineering 
Services • Chairs Baxter’s Energy Steering Committee, composed of corporate, regional and facility 
represent atives  
• Develops energy -conservation and energy cost -reduction strategies  
• Manages global energy -conservation programs, conducts energy bala nces and drives the Lean 	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/environmental -performance/energy.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       21 
Energy Program  
• Tracks and reports facility energy usage, costs and progress against goals each quarter  
• Monitors global energy availability and price trends  
• Coordinates companywide technical resources, Web resources, regional tra ining and Baxter’s Global 
Energy Conference  
Environment, Health and 
Safety  • Represented on Baxter’s Energy Steering Committee  
• Ensures environmental factors are considered in energy management strategies, initiatives, GHG-
reduction efforts and company policies  
• Manages Baxter’s global climate change response strategies and GHG -reduction activities  
• Tracks and reports company GHG emissions  
• Monitors Baxter’s participation in the European Union  Emissions Trading Scheme  
Corporate Services and 
Administration  • Seeks cost -competitive energy sources, in partnership with Baxter's Purchasing and Supplier 
Management organization  
• Manages natural gas purchasing for Baxter locations in the United States  
• Purchases renewable energy for specific Baxter facilities and produ cts 
• Manages “carbon -neutral” status of corporate headquarters  
Purchasing and Supplier 
Management Organization  • Manages program to work with major Baxter suppliers to improve energy efficiency, reduce GHG 
emissions and enhance other supplier “green” initiatives  
• Provides assistance in energy purchasing  
• Manages energy ef ficiency of Baxter -operated vehicles, including car sales fleet and truck 
distribution fleet  
• Champions green building technologies and renewable energy projects for supply chain distribution 
locations  
Facility Energy Managers  • Implement facility -level ener gy-conservation, cost -reduction and GHG -reduction strategies  
• Apply available Baxter technical resources and best practices, participate in regional training and 
attend company -sponsored Global Energy Conferences  
• Identify and implement energy -conservation p rojects  
• Evaluate viable renewable energy options  
• Set annual facility energy usage and cost -reduction goals  
• Manage facility energy performance  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/environmental -performance/ghg -emissions- across- value- chain.h tml 
© Copyright 2013 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       22 
GHG Emissions across the Value Chain  
Global warming and resulting climate change is one of the most pressing sustainability challenges facing the world today. Mul tinational 
companies can help address climate change by understanding their impacts across the value chain and decreasing greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions through reduction programs. These are core elements of Baxter's sustainability efforts.  
The company began reporting its Scope 1, Scope 2 and certain Scope 3 
GHG emissions in 1997 and contributed to the development of the init ial 
version of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, a collaboration of World Resources 
Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development.  
Baxter estimates its total GHG emissions footprint (Scope 1, Scope 2 and 
Scope 3) at 4.7 million metric ton s carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e). The 
data reported below are presented in accordance with guidance provided by the GHG Protocol (Scope 1 and Scope 2) and the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard.  
Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission s have a high level of certainty and are 
verified to a reasonable assurance level by an external third party. Scope 3 
categories such as Purchased Goods and Services (supply chain), Upstream 
Transportation and Distribution and Use of Sold Products are base d on 
various assumptions and estimates. The external third party assurance body also verified Baxter’s methodology for determining Scope 3 GHG emissions. Baxter continues to refine its understanding of the company’s GHG 
emissions footprint and to implement  emissions reduction strategies.  
View more detail  about Baxter's energy usage and GHG emissions  in the 
table on page 17.  
Upstream Scope 3 GHG Emissions  
The GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and 
Reporting Standard defines eight upstream Scope 3 emissions categories. 
Baxter estimates GHG emissions for each one, summarized below.  
• Purchased Goods and Services  – Estimated emissions associated 
with Baxter’s purchase of goods and services equaled 1,072,000 metric 
tons CO2e in 2012, 23.0% of the company’s GHG emissions footprint. See Global Sustainable Supply Chain  for information about Baxter’s 
efforts to encourage suppliers to improve their environmental 
performance, including reducing GHG emissions.  
• Capital Goods  – Greenhouse gas emissions associated with the p rocurement of capital goods, such as manufacturing equipment 
and new or renovated facilities, are estimated at 145,000 metric tons CO
2e in 2012, 3.1% of Baxter’s total GHG emissions footprint.  
• Fuel and Energy -Related Activities  – This category includes GHG  emissions related to the production of fuels and energy 
purchased and consumed by the reporting company.1 Baxter estimates GHG emissions in this category at 74,000 metric tons CO 2e 
in 2012, 1.6% of the company’s total GHG emissions footprint.  
• Upstream Transportation and Distribution  – Baxter estimates GHG emissions related to upstream transportation and distribution 
of products at 561,000 metric tons CO 2e in 2012, 12.0% of the company’s total GHG emissions footprint. See Product Transport  for 
more information about initiatives in this area.  
• Waste Generated in Operations  – Baxter estimates GHG emissions associated with two elements within this category. For 2012, estimated 
GHG emissions related to off -site wastewater treatment and waste management equaled 4,000 metric tons CO 2e, 0.1%  of Baxter’s total GHG 
emissions footpr int. 
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/environmental -performance/ghg -emissions- across- value- chain.h tml 
© Copyright 2013 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       23 
• Employee Business Travel  – Greenhouse gas emissions related to employee business travel equaled 53,000 metric tons CO 2e in 2012, 1.1% 
of Baxter’s GHG emissions footprint. These include commercial air travel (49,000 metric tons CO 2e), rental cars and p ublic transportation (2,000 
metric tons CO 2e) and hotel rooms and conference meeting facilities (2,000 metric tons CO 2e). Baxter bases these estimates principally on data 
supplied by the company’s travel service vendors.  
• Employee Commuting  – Baxter estimat es GHG emissions associated with employee commuting at 87,000 metric tons CO 2e in 2012, 1.9% of 
the company’s GHG emissions footprint. This estimate is based on employee counts by region, approximate average commute dista nces and 
commuting mode. 
• Upstream L eased Assets  – Baxter estimates GHG emissions associated with upstream leased assets at 28,000 metric tons CO 2e in 2012, 
0.6% of the company’s GHG emissions footprint. In addition to leased facilities space, this includes certain joint business v entures an d recent 
business acquisitions that will be integrated into Baxter within set timeframes.  
 
Baxter Operations – Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG Emissions  
Greenhouse gas emissions related to Baxter’s operations are due to facility energy use, company -operated busin ess vehicles, and refrigerant losses. 
Excluding offsets, these emissions equaled 790,000 metric tons CO2e in 2012, 16.9% of the company’s GHG emissions footprint. This included:  
• Facility/Vehicle Fuel Usage and Refrigerant Losses (Scope 1) -- 345,000 metric tons CO 2e 
• Purchased Energy (Scope 2) -- 445,000 metric tons CO 2e 
See GHG Emissions from Operations , the following s ection, for extensive detail.  
 
Downstream Scope 3 GHG Emissions  
The GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard defines seven downstream Scope 3 categorie s. Baxter has 
estimated GHG emissions for five of these, summarized  below, and continues to evaluate reporting emissions associated with the remaining two.  
• Downstream Transportation and Distribution  – Baxter estimates GHG emissions associated with downstream transportation and distribution 
at 21,000 metric tons CO 2e in 20 12, 0.4% of the company’s GHG emissions footprint.  
• Processing of Sold Products  – This category includes emissions from the processing of sold intermediate products2 by third parties (e.g., 
manufacturers) subsequent to sale by the reporting company. Baxter continues to evaluate possible emissions associated with this category.  
• Use of Sold Products – Baxter estimates GHG emissions associated with the use of its products at 1,782,000 metric tons CO 2e in 2012, 38.2% 
of the company’s GHG emissions footprint. The  company is exploring strategies to mitigate some of these product -related emissions.  
• End-of-life Treatment of Sold Products  – Baxter estimates GHG emissions associated with end -of-life treatment of sold products at 39,000 
metric tons CO 2e in 2012, 0.8% of the company’s GHG emissions footprint .
• Downstream Leased Assets  – This category includes emissions not already counted in Scope 1 or Scope 2 from the operation of assets owned 
by the reporting company (acting as lessor) and leased to other entities in the reporting year3. Baxter continues to evaluate possible emissions 
associated with this category.  
• Franchises4 – Baxter estimates GHG emissions associated with franchises at 9,000 metric tons CO 2e in 2012, 0.2% of the company’s GHG 
emissions footprint. 
• Investments  – Baxter estimates GHG emission s associated with investments at 5,000 metric tons CO 2e in 2012, less than 0.1% of the 
company’s GHG emissions footprint.  
External Recognition  
• In May 2013, UK -based Environmental Investment Organization recognized Baxter with a 2013 Scope 3 Disclosure Leader Award. Baxter was 
listed second as reporting 12 of 15 Scope 3 GHG emission categories.5 
• The April 2012 Maplecroft Climate Innovation Index (CII) US 100 (which covers the 100 largest U.S. companies by free -float market capitalization) 
ranked Baxter 1 3. 
 
1 See Category 3 of the GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard.  
2  Intermediate products are products that require further processing, transformation, or inclusion in an other product prior to use. See  Category 10 of the GHG Protocol 
Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard.  
3 See Category 13 of the GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard.  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/environmental -performance/ghg -emissions- across- value- chain.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/environmental -performance/ghg -emissions -from-operations.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       24 
4  This category includes estimated GHG emissions from the operation of franchises not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2 emissions. A  franchise is a business operating under a 
license to sell or distribute another company’s goods or services within a ce rtain location.  See Category 14 of the GHG Protocol Corp orate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and 
Reporting Standard.  
5  This performance relates to Baxter’s 2011 GHG emissions reported in 2012   
 
GHG Emissions from Operations  
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions related to Baxter’s operations are 
due to facility energy use; company -operated sales, distribution and 
other business vehicles; and refrigerant losses.  
Baxter’s approach to managing and reducing GHG emissions from operations includes 18 program and reduction strategies. Program 
strategies describe broader  aspects of the company’s approach such as 
developing and refining an overall GHG emissions reduction strategy, 
setting GHG emissions reduction goals, measuring and reporting 
progress, and others. These are complemented by specific approaches to reducing G HG emissions such as fuel switching and cogeneration, 
onsite renewable energy systems, renewable power purchasing, and high-performance green buildings.  
The company is committed to reducing GHG emissions from operations 45% indexed to revenue by 2015 compa red to 2005. From 2005 to 2012, 
Baxter decreased net GHG emissions from operations by 12% in absolute terms and 39% indexed to revenue. Although the company is expanding its operations with business acquisitions and new facilities, 
Baxter projects it will meet its GHG emissions goal.  
Total net emissions from operations of 688,000 metric tons carbon 
dioxide equivalent ( CO
2e) in 2012 includes a subtraction of 101,700 
metric tons CO 2e, composed of the following: 86,700 metric tons CO 2e 
of certified renewable energy and 15,000 metric tons CO 2e of 
Chicago Climate Exchange (CCX) carbon credits purchased from the 
IntercontinentalExchange.  
This total is equivalent to 13% of total emissions from operations and 
represents approximately one -fourth of the company’s progress (39% 
reduction indexed to revenue) toward its 2015 GHG reduction goal. The 
following table describes the sources of GHG emissions from Baxter operations during 2012 . 
GHG Emissi ons from Baxter Operations, 2012 * 
 Metric Tons 
CO2e Percent of 
Total  Primary GHG Emissions 
Reduction Focus  
Purchased Electricity and Steam  445,000  56.3%  Energy Conservation  
Purchased Fossil Fuel  260,000  32.9%  Energy Conservation  and 
switching to lower GHG or 
renewable fuels  
Baxter Operated Sales, Distributed and Other Business Vehicles  53,000  6.7%  Improved vehicle efficiency 
Refrigerant Related Emissions  32,000  4.1%  Switching to lower GHG 
potential refrigerants  
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/environmental -performance/ghg -emissions- from-operations.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       25 
Subtotal  790,000 100%   
Purchase of Renewable Energy (Electricity) and Carbon Credits, and Support of Carbon 
Sequestration Projects  102,000    
Net GHG Emissions  688,000   
* See the paragraph about biomass fuels below for detail about emissions from biomass -fired boilers at three Baxter locations. Since biomass is generated from 
a renewable energy resource, it is not included in Scope 1 GHG  emissions or the table above.  
 
View more detail about Baxter's energy usag e and GHG emissions in the table on page 17.  
Energy usage accounts for 96% of Baxter's GHG emissions from operations, so the company focuses its efforts in this area. Baxter’s 
approach includes adopting innovative technologies such as low energy light emitting diode (LED) lighting, switching to lower  carbo n 
fuels (such as from fuel oil to natural gas), using boilers powered by sustainably sourced biomass fuels, and implementing co generation 
systems. For more detail, see below, the Energy page, and Case Study: Employees Drive Innovative Environmental Initiatives . 
In 2012, Bax ter used biomass fuels to generate energy in boilers at three Baxter locations: Marion, North Carolina, United States (wood 
byproducts from furniture manufacturing); Alathur, India, (coconut shells, rice husks and sugarcane remnants) and Waluj, Indi a (resi dual 
biomass from sugarcane and cotton). During the year, emissions from these boilers equaled 187,000 metric tons CO 2e. Following the 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol1, the company reports CO 2 emissions from biologically sequestrated carbon separately from its tot al 
emissions from operations (Scope 1 and 2) and does not include these emissions in progress toward its 2015 GHG emissions redu ction 
goal. See Baxter's Energy Usage and Greenhouse Gas Emissions  section  for more detail.  
In 2012, Baxter’s Lessines, Belgium, facility completed the first full year of operation of its new cogeneration system. The company also 
uses cogenera tion at its Castlebar, Ireland and Sabiñánigo, Spain manufacturing sites.  
Renewable Energy and Carbon Neutrality 
In 2007, Baxter committed to increasing facility usage of renewable energy to 20% of total energy use by 2015. By year end 20 12, 22% 
of Baxter’ s energy use for operations was from renewable sources. Of this amount, 8% was biomass fuel for boilers at three company 
locations and 14% was the combined total from the renewable energy component of purchased electricity (11%) and renewable ene rgy 
certif icates (RECs) (3%). A small amount was from onsite geothermal systems and onsite solar photovoltaic (PV) and solar hot water 
systems.  
During 2012, Baxter purchased 207,100 megawatt hours (MWh) of electricity generated from 100% certified renewable power. T his 
included 111,000 MWh in Europe (Austria, Spain, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom), 13,100 MWh in South America (Brazil) an d 
83,000 MWh of certified Green -e renewable energy certificates (RECs) in the United States. Baxter was recognized as the 19th largest 
corporate purchaser of renewable energy in the United States in 2012.2  
Beginning in 2007, Baxter has maintained carbon neutrality at its headquarters in Deerfield, Illinois, United States, and its  facility in 
Cartago, Costa Rica, through electricity generated from certified renewable energy, carbon credits, and carbon offsets. In both cases, 
the company offsets facility -related emissions from purchased electricity as well as fuel combusted on site. Beginning in 2012, all 
electricity purcha sed by Baxter in Illinois, United States, was 100% wind -generated, Green -e certified renewable energy. This equaled 
83,000 MWh last year.  
The following table summarizes energy sources used by utilities to generate electricity for Baxter globally in 2007 an d 2012. During that 
period, renewable energy sources increased from 22.5% to 35.5%.  
Energy Sources Used to Generate Electricity Used by Baxter*  
Non-renewable Energy Sources 2007 2012 
Coal 31.8%  27.0%  
Natural Gas  22.5%  19.5%  
Nuclear  14.2%  10.8%  
Oil 8.5%  6.8%  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/environmental -performance/ghg -emissions- from-operations.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       26 
Waste  0.5%  0.4%  
Subtotal  77.5%  64.5%  
Renewable Energy Sources   
Biomass  1.5%  3.2%  
Geothermal  0.5%  0.5%  
Hydroelectric  16.2%  19.4%  
Solar  0.0%  0.3%  
Wind  4.3%  12.1%  
Subtotal  22.5%  35.5%  
Total  100%  100%  
* Based upon the most recent country data available from the International Energy Agency (IEA) and the additional renewable energy purchased by Baxter. 
Unlike Baxter’s 2015 renewable energy goal, this table does not take into account onsite renewable energy systems . 
 
Baxter also has recently implemented several on -site renewable energy projects. The capacity of the company’s total on -site solar PV 
and solar hot water systems at year -end 2012 was approximately 1.0 MW. Examples include the following:  
• 2012 – Baxter installed solar hot water and PV systems at its Rieti, Italy, facility. In 2012 Baxter began to install an 840 kWp3 solar 
PV system (the company’s largest) at its Marsa, Malta, facility, completed during the second quarter of 2013.  
• 2011 – Baxter installed solar hot water or PV systems at its Orth, Austria; Vienna, Austria; São Paulo, Brazil and Cuernavaca, 
Mexico, facilities.  
• 2010- 2011 – Baxter installed geothermal systems at its locations in Orth, Austria, and Marsa, Malta. (Baxter pre viously had installed 
a geothermal system at its office in Munich, Germany.  
• 2010 – Baxter installed solar PV systems at its Los Angeles, California, United States, and Aibonito, Puerto Rico, facilities.  
As world energy prices rise and carbon constraints intensify, Baxter will continue to adopt renewable energy and alternative lower -
carbon fuels, where feasible.
Additional Approaches to Reduce GHG Emissions  
High-performance green buildings provide many benefits that enhance employee productivity and reduce operating expense. Baxter 
has incorporated green building design principles and has achieved or is working toward U.S. Green Building Council Leadershi p in 
Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certification at several sites (see EHS Management Systems and Certifications ). 
Baxter has used a  market -based approach (carbon cap- and-trade) to gain experience in the voluntary U.S. emissions trading market, to 
offset some of its GHG emissions, and to meet obligations for one facility that is subject to the European Union Emissions Tr ading 
Scheme.  
1The Greenhouse Gas Protocol, Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standards (Corporate Standard) . 2 U.S. Environmental  
2Protection Agency Green Power Partnership Fortune 500 Partners List, January 9, 2013.  
3Kilowatt -peak (kWp) refers to the maximum electricity generation capacity of the system.  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/environmental -performance/waste.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       27 
Waste  
Baxter has prioritized minimizing waste since establishing its first waste 
reduction goals in 1996. Early waste reduction ef forts focused on decreasing 
potential risk and liability. Since the early 2000's, potential financial gains and 
process efficiency have also motivated the company’s efforts in this area.  
Baxter tracks and analyzes waste data from each major facility to ass ess 
progress toward waste -reduction goals and identify opportunities to improve 
the efficiency of processes that generate waste. The company’s 
environmental, health and safety (EHS) information management system 
captures waste performance data monthly, all owing quick reaction time when 
issues arise. Facilities also are implementing robust means of measuring 
waste at the point of generation, to rapidly identify significant sources. These and other waste reduction activities reduce expenses related to raw materials, waste handling and disposal. Waste minimization also reduces 
environmental impacts associated with raw materials extraction and refining.  
Baxter sites generate different types of waste, so the company’s total waste 
goals  combine non -hazardous and regulated waste to encourage each site to 
focus on the type of waste most relevant to its operations. Baxter has 
committed to reduce waste generation b y 30% indexed to revenue by 2015, 
compared to 2005. The company identifies leading opportunities to decrease 
waste based on the highest volume waste streams, facilities that produce the most waste, sites with particularly strong potential to improve, and o ther 
factors. 
Total Waste Performance  
During 2012, Baxter's operations generated 63,430 metric tons of total waste, up 11% from 2005 in absolute terms and a 23% decrease indexed to revenue.  
In absolute terms, total waste decreased by 13% during 2012 comp ared to 2011. Baxter attributes this decrease to the following:  
• Europe, Middle East and Africa  – A product recall in the region resulted in approximately 9,400 metric tons of total waste in 2011, 
13% of the global total. Excluding this waste, Baxter’s waste generation was essentially the same in 2011 as in 2012.  
• United States  – Although plasma collection has increased at BioLife 
Centers, the company implemented two projects that helped reduce 
waste. The recycled sharps container program across BioLife k ept 15 
metric tons of plastic and 0.5 metric tons of cardboard out of landfills. 
This initiative saved more than $40,000 by avoiding purchase of new 
plastic sharps containers. The centers also are working with a supplier to return used “mini -trays” (packin g material for collection set tubing).   
Non-hazardous Waste Performance 
During 2012, Baxter's operations generated 58,000 metric tons of non -
hazardous waste, 9% more than in 2005 in absolute terms and a 24% 
decrease indexed to revenue.  
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/environmental -performance/waste.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       28 
Plastic scrap repr esents one of Baxter’s largest waste streams, representing roughly one -third of the company’s non- hazardous waste. 
Baxter’s Corporate Environmental Engineering group started an initiative in 2010 to identify opportunities to reduce plastic waste 
generation  at the source through a systematic approach that emphasizes continual improvement and draws on Lean and Six Sigma 
tools. The company continues to benefit from these efforts. Nineteen facilities participating in the plastic scrap reduction initiative 
reduc ed plastic waste by more than 700 metric tons during 2012. 
Examples include:  
• Australia  - The Toongabbie facility designed a mechanism to 
recover plastic scrap in one of its production processes that is 
expected to save the company more than $60,000 and 36  metric 
tons of plastic per year.  
• Costa Rica  – The Cartago site continues to reduce plastic use 
due to enhanced process controls in the manufacturing process. The site reduced plastic scrap waste by 17% per unit of production in 2012 compared to the prior  year, equivalent to 134 
metric tons.  
• India  – The Manesar facility implemented projects that reduced 
plastic scrap by 44% per unit of production in 2012, or approximately 210 metric tons, compared to 2011. Projects in 2012 included modifying the 3L drain renal bag to a 2.5L bag, decreasing the weig ht of each bag by 0.4 grams. The site also 
reduced the thickness of the 2L solution bag and 3L drain bag by 0.01mm. The facility continues to focus on scrap reduction as well, and improved the rate from 2.5% to 1.5% of total plastic use in 
2012 after addre ssing main sources of rejects and improving the 
changeover process in extrusion lines.  
• Singapore  – The Singapore site improved efficiency in 
manufacturing, including projects aimed at reducing changeover, start-up and set -up time in extrusion operations, steps that are the 
main sources of plastic scrap in extrusion operations. These 
enhancements reduced plastic scrap by 12% per unit of 
production compared to 2011, equal to 138 metric tons.  
 
Other facilities also have reduced waste by focusing on manufacturing 
efficiency. During 2012, Baxter’s Lessines, Belgium; San Vittore, 
Switzerland; Aibonito, Puerto Rico; Suzhou, China; and Alliston, Canada, facilities implemented projects that reduced plastic waste by 
764 metric tons total compared to the prior year.   
A procedure at Moncelice, Italy, promotes materials reuse and proper 
segregation of all waste from the workshop. One project used discarded poles to build a table with a chute that moves empty trolleys for a product. This project not only reduced waste, but also provided 
additional benefits, including improved ergonomic handling.  
In 2012, Baxter also focused on reducing packaging waste. Sites in Cali, Colombia; Kista, Sweden; Marsa, Malta; and Mountain Home, Arkansas, United States, implemented initiativ es to decrease use of 
packaging materials such as cardboard, paper, plastic, and Styrofoam, saving 50 metric tons. See Packaging section for details.  
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/environmental -performance/waste.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       29 
Baxter has steadil y increased its recycling rate since 2007. Of the 
58,000 metric tons of non -hazardous waste generated in 2012, Baxter 
recycled approximately 40,000 metric tons, or 69%. Baxter also 
recycled 1,600 metric tons of regulated waste in 2012, for an overall recyc ling rate of 66%.
1 
Recycling activities at Baxter generated nearly $6.6 million in revenue in 2012. Although some recycled waste streams do not generate 
revenue, even in those cases recycling typically costs less than 
disposal. Recycling revenue in 2012 in creased by more than 30% 
compared to 2011 due to higher prices paid for recycled materials such as plastics, metals and corrugated and fewer expenses 
associated with recycling of finished product.  
Regulated Waste Performance2 
Regulated waste represented ab out 9% of the total waste Baxter 
generated in 2012.  
Baxter generated 5,430 metric tons of regulated waste in 2012, 32% 
more than in 2005 in absolute terms and a 8% decrease indexed to revenue. The company decreased regulated waste by 7% on an absolute bas is compared to 2011, principally due to a project at the 
Los Angeles facility that turned 600 tons of plasma production by -
products into electricity, through the use of an anaerobic digester. See Case Study: Baxter's Los Angeles, California, United States, Facility 
Turns Production Waste into Electricity.   
Since 2010, Baxter’s Guayama, Puerto Rico, facility has pursued 
improvements to a manufactur ing distillation process to reduce the 
amount of waste associated with this process. The improvement allows wastewater generated from the process to be treated in the facility’s wastewater pretreatment system rather than hauli ng it off -
site for disposal. A dditionally, the concentrated organic stream generated during the distillation process is now reused, reducing 
approximately 45 cubic meters of liquid waste annually. Following an analysis of regulated waste streams in 2012, the site al so was 
able to recla ssify some waste as nonhazardous and to treat other waste streams in the facility’s wastewater pretreatment plant. For 
example, the use of more compatible metal alloys in process tanks and equipment has reduced metal levels in process wastewate r, 
allowing the site to pretreat wastewater internally. Overall, these efforts helped reduce regulated waste by 25% in 2012 compared to t he 
prior year, equivalent to 99 metric tons.  
The Baxter site in Grosotto, Italy, installed an acetic acid stor age tank and automatic distribution system, eliminating the use of small 
single -use containers of acetic acid and decreasing regulated waste by about 15 metric tons per year compared to 2011.
 
Additional Waste Streams  
To more closely reflect production eff iciency, Baxter excludes certain non -routine, non production- related waste streams from its total 
waste performance data and progress against its 2015 waste goal. The company reports these waste streams in the following table, 
which allows for more consist ent evaluation of facility performance and trends.  
1 Incineration with energy recovery is considered recycling.  
2 Baxter reports “regulated waste” rather than “hazardous waste.” This term includes a broader array of materials that would otherwise be class ified as non -
hazardous in some countries, which helps Baxter harmonize its waste reporting across locations with varying waste regulations . In addition to wastes typically 
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/environmental -performance/waste.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/environmental -performance/water -and-wastewater.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       30 
considered hazardous (such as toxics and corrosives), the company also includes oils , biohazardous or infectious materials, batteries, fluorescent lamps, 
asbestos and other materials that may not be defined as hazardous waste by national legislation at the point of origin.  
Construction and demolition debris waste decreased in 2012 compar ed to 2011 primarily due to the completion of several large 
expansion projects in 2011. The data also reflect improvements in the tracking and reporting of these waste streams.  
Non-production Waste Streams Not Included in Total Waste Performance (metric tons)  
   2010   2011   2012 
 Non-
Hazardous Regulated  Total  Non-
Hazardous Regulated  Total  Non-
Hazardous Regulated  Total  
Construction  
and Demolition 
Debris  6,100 0 6,100 14,000 0 14,000 1,200 0 1,200 
Remediation 
Waste  0 10 0 0 3,810 3,810 0 140 140 
Wastewater 
Treatment Sludge  1,400 10 1,410 1,900 100 2,000 2,300 100 2,400 
Total  7,500 20 7,520 15,900 3,910 19,810 3,500 240 3,740 
 
Water and Wastewater  
Water issues continue to gro w in visibility and importance worldwide, and many consider access to clean water to be a basic human 
right. Although global concerns, addressing these issues requires action at a local or regional level. Due to the location -specific nature 
of water issues , companies first must understand water risks associated with individual operations before they can take appropriate and 
meaningful action.  
Water is integral to many of Baxter’s products and manufacturing processes, and the company considers water conserv ation and reuse 
to be key focus areas. Baxter works to better understand the impacts of its water use across the value chain, and implements 
conservation and efficiency projects at its manufacturing facilities to improve its performance.  
Baxter is committe d to reducing water consumption by 35% indexed to revenue by 2015, compared to 2005. The company also has 
committed to implement two projects by 2015 to help protect vulnerable watersheds and provide communities with enhanced acces s to 
clean water.  
Water consumption, energy usage and greenhouse gas emissions are interrelated issues, including within Baxter’s manufacturing 
operations. The production of highly purified water requires energy to operate water purification equipment such as reverse o smosis 
and water distillation units. As water quality decreases, Baxter will need to use additional energy and water for these purposes.  
Water Usage  
Baxter closely manages how it obtains, uses, treats, re -circulates and discharges water. In 2012, the company acquired  slightly less 
than half of its water from on -site wells and the remainder from municipal water distribution systems.  
During the year, Baxter used approximately 14.0 million cubic meters1 of water, roughly equivalent to filling 15 Olympic -sized swimming 
pools every day. The company used 5% less water in 2012 than in 2005 in absolute terms and 34% less indexed to revenue, on targ et 
to meet its 2015 water -reduction goal. Baxter used approximately 60,000 cubic meters more water in 2012 than in 2011, largely du e to 
changes in manufacturing practices and product development activities at numerous Baxter facilities globally.  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/environmental -performance/water -and-wastewater.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       31 
Baxter uses water in three main ways:  
• Process -related operations include cooling towers, chillers, steam 
boilers, sterilizers and water purif ication (80% of total);  
• Use of purified water in the company’s solution products (15% of total); 
and 
• Other uses such as in bathrooms, cafeterias and landscaping (5% of 
total).  
Water Conservation  
Facilities with water -intensive operations develop site -spec ific water 
efficiency initiatives and metrics. Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) 
and Facilities Engineering Services personnel review performance to identify best practices for application at other locations.  
Baxter considers several factors to identify  water usage reduction 
opportunities and possible water conservation projects at sites, including 
total water used, water usage efficiency, water cost and water availability. 
Due to the strong link between energy usage and water processing, 
optimizing wate r systems remains a key focus of the company’s facility 
energy assessments . Additionally, Baxter integrates Lean manufacturing 
principles and tools such as value stream mapping2 with water 
management to help facilities identify areas for additional conservation.  
During 2012, Baxter implemented water recovery and reuse projects at 
several facilities:  
• England  - Baxter’s facility in Liverpool installed a closed -circuit cooling 
water loop, helping to reduce water usage by 104,000 cubic meters 
compared to 2011.  
• Spain  - Building on an initiative started in 2010, Baxter's Sabiñanigo 
facility expanded the removal of a two -stage washing bath from 
additional manufacturing lines for Viaflo, Baxter’s non- PVC flexible 
intravenous (IV) bag. Continued implementation of this project in 2012 
contributed to a 59,000 cubic meter reduction in water usage during the 
year.  
• United States  - Baxter’s Hayward, Calif ornia, facility completed 
improvements on its steam management system, enhanced insulation 
of steam valves and piping throughout the facility, and reduced reverse osmosis water system operational time. These projects contributed to the facility’s 10,000 cu bic meter reduction in water  consumption, 
compared to 2011.  
Water -Stressed Locations 
Water issues vary significantly by location. Baxter used the World Business 
Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Global Water Tool to evaluate 
the availability of renewable water resources at Baxter’s 51 largest water -
consuming locations, which represent approximately 96% of the company’s total 
water use. Twelve of those sites are located in water -scarce areas, 10 in water -
stressed areas and 29 in water -sufficient areas . 
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/environmental -performance/water -and-wastewater.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       32 
Water usage in water -scarce and water -stressed areas increased 3% in absolute te rms and 5% normalized to production in 2012 compared to 
2011, primarily due to more water -intensive manufacturing practices and sanitation protocols.  
Baxter has established partnerships with local non -governmental organizations (NGOs) to implement projects  to help protect vulnerable 
watersheds or provide communities with enhanced access to clean water and sanitation.  
In 2012, Baxter launched a project with Philippine Center for Water and Sanitation (PCWS) to improve the water, sanitation an d hygiene 
(WASH) conditions for the nearly 1,500 inhabitants of Sitio Silangan, a community within walking distance of the company's 
manufacturing facility in Canlubang, Philippines, which is located in a water -scarce region. PCWS builds the capabilities of 
communities, ho useholds, non -governmental organizations and other groups to address water, sanitation and hygiene challenges 
throughout the country. See Case Study: Addressing Community Water Needs in the Philippines . 
In early 2013, Baxter also entered into a partnership with Sarar Transfo rmación SC to implement a community water project near 
Baxter’s facility in Cuernavaca, Mexico. The project's goals are to improve water and sanitary conditions at local schools in  the 
surrounding water -stressed area of Tepoztlán, Mexico; to educate the co mmunity on sustainable water use; and to implement 
processes to ensure maintenance of the installed improvements. Nearly 1,000 residents of the Tepoztlán area are expected to b enefit 
from this project.  
Wastewater  
Wastewater discharged from Baxter's produc tion operations represents one of the company's most significant environmental 
compliance  risks. In 2012, all of Baxter’s 85 self -reported environm ental incidents were exceedances of permitted wastewater discharge 
limits, and 95% of those were from one location. The company’s Castlebar, Ireland facility reported 81 wastewater exceedances  related 
to biological oxygen demand (BOD), pH, flow volume, chl oride and sulphate.  
To address these items, Baxter continues to apply internal and external legal and engineering resources to improve compliance  at this 
facility. The site has worked extensively with local regulatory agencies, external wastewater experts,  and the private third -party operator 
of the municipal wastewater treatment plant to develop technical options to expand the treatment capacity of the Baxter -dedicated 
wastewater pre -treatment system. Additionally, Baxter continues to manage its operations , including its required rigorous cleaning 
solutions and other ways to reduce the loading on the wastewater treatment system. This and many other enhanced internal 
operational practices have engaged the entire facility staff and management in identifying w ays to further reduce the risk of wastewater 
exceedances.  
On a global level, to address existing wastewater compliance issues and to anticipate potential future ones, Baxter’s environ mental 
engineering group continues to perform comprehensive wastewater ri sk evaluations and develop recommendations for facilities with 
elevated wastewater compliance risk. These evaluations review processes for managing change at the facility, wastewater compl iance 
performance, wastewater permit conditions, projected changes i n production over the next five years, wastewater monitoring practices, 
reserve wastewater treatment capacity analyses, and other operational practices that help ensure proper management of wastewa ter 
discharges and compliance.   
Baxter -Operated Wastewater Treatment Systems  
Twelve of Baxter’s manufacturing operations treat wastewater on -site and either discharge to a waterway or operate as zero -discharge 
facilities. These facilities typically do not have access to regional or municipal wastewater -treatment s ystems. For example, Baxter’s 
facilities in Alathur and Waluj, India, reuse all treated wastewater on -site for landscaping and irrigation or, after further treatment by 
reverse osmosis, for cooling -towers. In 2012, these 12 facilities treated more than 4.3  million cubic meters of wastewater, nearly 31% of 
Baxter's total water consumption.  
The combined treated effluent from the 10 facilities that discharge to a waterway contained substances that represent 36 metr ic tons of 
BOD 5, 120 metric tons of chemical o xygen demand (COD) and 34 metric tons of total suspended solids (TSS). This equals average 
concentrations of 8 mg/liter BOD 5, 28 mg/liter COD and 8 mg/liter TSS. These levels generally are regarded as indicators of adequately 
treated wastewater and are wel l below typical regulatory discharge limits. 	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/environmental -performance/water -and-wastewater.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       33 
Wastewater Pollutants*  
  2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Typical 
Acceptable 
Discharge 
Level 
(mg/L) 
BOD 5** Metric 
Tons  26 26 28 28 31 41 24 36  
 Mg/L  6 6 6 7 8 10 5 8 20 
COD**  Metric 
Tons  111 119 134 132 102 106 98 120  
 Mg/L  26 27 30 31 27 27 22 28 60 
TSS**  Metric 
Tons  45 49 53 48 31 34 49 34  
 Mg/L  11 11 12 11 8 9 11 8 20 
Total Direct 
Discharge  Cubic 
Meters 4,340,000 4,565,000 4,538,000 4,295,000 3,777,000 3,948,000 4,404,000 4,348,000  
*Estimated total water pollutant levels for treated wastewater discharged directly into waterways. Data do not include two facilities that operate zero -discharge 
systems in accordance with local regulatory requirements.  
**When actual performance data were not available, estimates were developed based on per formance at similar facilities or on other measured performance 
indicators.  
Wastewater and Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients  
Baxter takes seriously the concern about active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) entering the public water supply. The compa ny 
primarily produces solutions whose principal ingredients include water, salts and simple sugars. However, Baxter purchases and u ses 
some solution therapies and products for injection that include APIs.  
The company properly manages the APIs that it uses to hel p ensure they are not released into the environment during manufacturing. 
Baxter has developed proprietary processes to remove, destroy or deactivate some compounds though not required to do so by la w. All 
other compounds that cannot be managed this way or  through traditional wastewater systems are destroyed by incineration or other 
environmentally responsible means.  
Complementing these global processes, each Baxter facility determines the most effective and environmentally responsible meth od of 
protecting  the public water supply and public health in accordance with company policies and local regulations. For example, Baxter’s 
major research and development facility in Round Lake, Illinois, United States, has an ongoing program launched in 1989 to ev aluate its 
solution products, including those containing APIs, for their removal in wastewater treatment systems. The company shares thi s 
information with Baxter facilities around the world.   
1 One cubic meter equals 1,000 liters or 264 gallons.  
2 Water value stream mapping is an interactive, Lean manufacturing tool that helps facilities better understand the quantity and quality of water used in their 
processes and identify opportunities for reduction or reuse. 
 	  
http://w ww.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/environmental -financial -statement.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       34 
2012 Environmental Financial Statement  
Baxter's Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) function pioneered its En vironmental Financial Statement (EFS) in 1994 (covering 1993 
data). The EFS demonstrates the value of the company’s proactive global environmental management program to EHS team members,  
senior leadership and other stakeholders. The company has typically demonstrated a return of approximately three dollars per year for 
every dollar invested.  
Environmental income, savings and cost avoidance totaled $19.9 million for initiatives completed in 2012, or 88% of the cost of Baxter's 
basic global environmental pro gram. This amount increased from a net loss of $4.4 million in 2011.  
Factors that influenced 2012 performance include the following:  
• Non-hazardous waste savings and cost avoidance:  Waste related to disposal of finished product decreased by nearly 8,000 
metric tons in 2012 compared to 2011, resulting in significant savings and cost avoidance associated with non -hazardous waste 
disposal and non- hazardous materials.  
• Regulated waste savings and cost avoidance:  In 2012, regulated waste decreased by 7% on an abso lute basis compared to 
2011, principally due to a program at the Los Angeles, California, United States, facility that converted 1,000 metric tons o f regulated 
plasma and ethanol production by -products into electricity, using an anaerobic digester. While t his contributed to savings and cost 
avoidance associated with regulated waste disposal, Baxter could not claim savings and cost avoidance associated with regulat ed 
materials since their reuse did not reduce raw materials purchasing.  
• Waste Recycling:  Demand  and revenue for production by -products sent off -site for recycling increased, attributable to the 
strengthening global economy.  
Total estimated environmental income, savings and cost avoidance realized in 2012 from environmental initiatives implemented since 
2005 totaled $56.3 million. 
Baxter's 2012 Environmental Financial Statement (see following page).  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/documents/baxter -2012- environmental -financial -statement.pdf  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       35 
 	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/health -and-safety/index.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/health -and-safety/performance.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  
 	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/health -and-safety/index.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/health -and-safety/performance.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  
Health and Safety  
Complementing its mission to save and sustain the lives of patients worldwide, Baxter works to ensure the health, safety and well-being 
of its employees. At Baxter, all employees are accountable for safety.  
The company encourages employee health and wellne ss in and out of the workplace, such as by providing free influenza 
immunizations, subsidizing access to exercise facilities on or near the premises of some Baxter locations, and promoting bala nced 
nutrition. The company also is working toward a smoke- free environment at all of its locations.  
Baxter conducts business worldwide, with more than half of its employees working outside the United States. The company’s 
operations consist of the following work environments:  
• Manufacturing;  
• Administrative and sales o ffices;  
• Plasma -donor centers;  
• Research and development;  
• Renal -therapy centers;  
• Pharmacy compounding centers; and  
• Warehousing and distribution.  
Recent trends in Baxter’s operations include increasing facility process automation, facility expansions, and a g rowing remote 
workforce. These present distinct workplace hazards and improvement opportunities related to safety.  
See a summary of performanc e in this area during 2012, a description of how Baxter manages safety  and health and wellness , and 
details about several programs and initiatives in each area.  
 
 
2012 Safety Performance  
In 2012, Baxter achieved a 5% decrease in re cordable case rate, a 3% decrease in cases with days lost rate and a 21% decrease in 
days lost rate. The following table summarizes Baxter’s health and safety performance from 2008 -2012, and includes the company’s 
2012 and 2013 targets in this area, which help keep the company on a course of continual improvement toward achieving its 2015 goal 
to Promote a Safe and Healthy Workplace. Click on underlined items to view performance graphs with regional and other breakdo wns 
and global rates.  
Indicator  2008 2009 2010 2011 2012  2012 Target  2013 
Target  
Recordable Case 
Rate1,2 1.29 1.07 1.00 0.95 0.90 0.92 0.87 
Cases with Days Lost 
Rate1,2 0.19 0.15 0.17 0.158 0.154 0.153 0.148 
Days Lost Rate1,2 4.23 4.16 4.56 5.47 4.35 5.143 4..20 
Restricted Days Rate1,2 19.46 12.68 14.59 13.86 14.38 n/a n/a 
Days Away (Lost), 
Restricted or Transferred Rate (DART)
1,2 23.69 16.84 19.15 19.33 18.73 n/a n/a 	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/health -and-safety/performance.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       38 
Employee/ Contractor 
Serious Incidents (total number)
4 8/2 12/2 5/0 12/1 5/0 n/a n/a 
Employee/ Contractor 
Fatalities (total number)  0/1 0/06 0/0 1/0 0/0 n/a n/a 
 
1 All rates based on 100 full -time employees working one year, which equals 200,000 work hours. For tracking purposes, Baxter’s position is to follow U.S. 
Occupational Safety and Health Administration recordkeeping requirements worldwide. Thus, in cases where an injury occurs and conflicting medical opinions 
arise as to the number of days away and/or restricted days that should be recorded, Baxter records on the basis of the most a uthoritative physician ’s opinion. 
2 Recordable cases  – Work -related injuries or illnesses requiring medical attention beyond first -aid, including cases with days lost.  
Cases with days lost  – Work -related injuries or illnesses that cause an employee to lose at least one full day after the date of the incident.  
Days lost  – The number of days lost (including weekends and holidays) recommended by the most authoritative physician's opinion due to work -related 
injuries or illnesses. Baxter does not count the date of injury and date of return to full duty as lost days.  
Restricted days – The number of days recommended by the most authoritative physician's opinion that an employee or supervised con tractor is unable to 
work full duty (including weekends and holidays) due to a work -related injury or illness. Baxter does not count the date of injury and date of return to full duty 
as restricted days.  
DART  – The combined number of days lost, restricted days and days transferred to another job function (including weekends and holida ys) due to work-
related injury or illness severe enough to prevent working full duty. Baxter does not count the date of injury a nd date of return to full duty in the DART 
calculation.  
3 2012 target for days lost rate was set higher than 2011 target due to Baxter  not achieving the 2011 target.  
4 Serious workplace incidents are work -related incidents that result in an employee or co ntractor being hospitalized overnight, sustaining an amputation or 
dying. This designation also includes any employee chemical or radiation exposure requiring government notificat ion. 
5 In November 2009, a contractor died while performing on -site dredging of a pond at Baxter's Deerfield, Illinois, United States, headquarters. The Lake County 
medical examiner determined that the individual died of natural causes, and that the death was not work- related. It therefore is not included in this data.  
In 2012, Ba xter continued to improve its safety performance with respect to all indicators measured. Regional performance summaries 
include the following:  
• Asia Pacific  – Recordable case rate performance worsened by 55% primarily due to 16 hearing -loss recordable cases discovered 
at one site after a detailed record review. The 15% improvement in cases with days lost rate resulted from increased work hou rs. 
Baxter attributes the 60% improvement in days lost rate to additional emphasis on the region’s case management sys tem, identified 
as a gap in 2011.  
• Europe, Middle East and Africa  – Performance again improved for recordable case rate with a further 12% reduction from 2011. 
This stems from the company’s focus on incident accountability as well as thorough investigations  with continued mandatory use of 
Lean A3 investigative reports for all recordable cases across the region.1 
• Latin America and Canada  – The region experienced its best performance improvement ever in several safety indicators. 
Recordable case rate improved by 5%, lost time case rate by 60% and lost workdays rate by 71%. Baxter attributes this to a region -
wide focus on prevention, application of enhanced root cause analysis and deployment of behavior -based safety programs. See 
Case Study: Facility Finds Success in Behavior -Based Safety . 
• North America – Recordable case rate performance improved by 6%. However, cases with days lost rate worsened by 23% and 
days lost rate worsened by 11%. Possible causes included rapid expansion of some areas of the business, such as an increase i n 
renal home care patien ts. This created challenging working conditions until staffing could be adjusted accordingly.
As in recent years, ergonomic injuries were a leading source of recordable cases, days lost and restricted days (see graph be low). See 
Safety Program Management and Initiatives  for details about the ergonomic strategies Baxter implements to address this ongoing 
challenge.  
Recordable injury, days lost cases and days lost rates all improved in 2012. Baxter’s overall safety performance since 2005 ha s 
improved significantly:  
• 41% reduction in recordable case rate  
• 49% decrease in cases with days lost rate  
• 39% reduction in days los t rate  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/health -and-safety/safety -program -management -and-initiatives.html 
© Copyright 2013  Baxte r International Inc. All Rights Reserved       39 
In a comparison of 16 healthcare companies2, Baxter’s performance ranked third in cases with days lost rate in 2011, the most recent 
year industry benchmarking data were available. Although this placement puts Baxter on course to achieve one of the company’s 2015 
goals , maintaining and increasing this ranking will require continuous enhancements to the company’s safety systems and strategies . 
 
View a comparison  of Baxter’s performance to average occupational injury and illness rates for several related U.S. -based industries.  
Analysis of Injuries and Illnesses  
Baxter’s safety function  regularly evaluates the main sources of work -related injuries at the company to identify trends and address 
opportunities for improvement. The following chart shows the sources of recordable injuries and serious incidents at Baxter i n 2012. 
The two major sources of injuries and illnesses for the past seven years (when the company began analyzing these data) have been 
ergonomic issues and slips, trips and falls. Baxter has initiated focused programs  in each of these areas.  
Serious Incidents  
Serious workplace incidents are those that result in an 
employee or contractor being hospitalized overnight, sustaining an amputation or dying. This designation also 
includes any employee chemical or radiation exposure 
requiring government notification.  
When a serious incident occurs, facility management 
conducts an evaluation and follows formal processes and 
reporting mechani sms to share knowledge throughout the 
company to prevent reoccurrence. Baxter’s EHS Policy also 
requires regional and business EHS groups to prepare and distribute a report about the incident. In addition, safety personnel discuss each incident with the vi ce president of 
EHS and the corporate safety director to evaluate root 
causes and preventive measures. 
Baxter achieved a decrease in serious incidents in 2012 
compared to 2011 and had no fatalities. In 2012, Baxter 
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/envir onment -health- safety/health -and-safety/safety -program -management -and-initiatives.html 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/health -and-safety/great -health- and-safety -performers.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Ri ghts Reserved      40 
continued  to enhance its confined space entry program with full deployment of support tools and enhanced training . 
1A3 reports, a Lean manufacturing tool, are one -page summaries of pertinent accident information that can be easily shared and communicated.  
2Eight o f the 16 companies reported global safety data to Mercer (formerly ORC Worldwide), seven provided data as requested by Baxter  and one reported data 
on its public website.  
Great Health and Safety Performers in 2012 
The following Baxter facilities have completed at least 10 years of work and/or reached 1 million hours or more (the equivale nt of 500 
people working for a year) without an occupational injury or illness resulting in days lost (as of December 31, 2012).
 
Facility  Type  Estimated Years Without a 
Lost -Day Case  Estimated Hours Worked Since 
Last Lost -Day Case  
Vienna, Austria  Plasma Centers  40 2,844,431  
Waukegan, Illinois, United States (Aviation)  Office  21 593,629 
Washington, DC, United States Office  18 219,298 
Las Palmas, Spain  Distribution  18 132,777 
Guangzhou, China  Manufacturing  17 14,610,841  
Moscow, Russia  Office  17 2,567,764  
Vienna, Austria  Offices  17 2,500,589  
Belfast, Northern Ireland  Distribution  17 467,184 
North Cove, North Carolina, United States 
(Replenishment Center)  Distribution  16 3,487,135  
Singapore (Gateway West)  Office  16 2,665,658  
Beijing, China (Sales)  Office  15 2,242,892  
Manila (Makati City), Philippines  Office  15 1,800,561  
Grand Rapids, Michigan, United States  Plasma Center  15 1,144,070  
Mankato, Minnesota, United States  Plasma Center  15  1,097,962  
Fayetteville, Arkansas, United States  Plasma Center  15  882,788  
Suzhou, China  Manufacturing  14  10,751,649  
Seoul, Korea  Office  14 2,769,872  
Taipei, Taiwan  Office  14  1,976,769  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/health -and-safety/safety -program -management -and-initiatives.html 
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       41 
Tokyo, Japan (TDC/TSC)  Distribution  14  901,544  
Tokyo, Japan (CDC)  Commercial 
Operations  14  717,087  
Hayward, California, United States  Manufacturing  13  4,577,147  
Rome, Italy  Office  13  4,102,298  
Sintra, Portugal  Distribution  13  1,503,137  
Joplin, Missouri, United States  Plasma Center  13  1,030,418  
Shanghai, China  Manufacturing  12  10,648,715  
Renal Nationwide Sales Force (United States) Commerical 
Operations  12  3,003,672  
Volketswil, Switzerland  Office  12  1,512,227  
Guangzhou, China  Sales  12  876,342  
Hong Kong Commerical 
Operations  12 668,748  
Birmingham, Alabama, United States  Distribution  12  92,451  
Englewood, Colorado, United States  Distribution  12  67,449  
Tianjin, China  Manufacturing  11  3,571,142  
Shanghai, China (China Headquarters)  Office  11 3,519,720  
Zurich, Switzerland  Office  11  2,484,365  
Kista, Sweden  Office  11  2,057,861  
Dubuque, Iowa, United States  Plasma Center  11  881,296  
Lima, Ohio, United States Plasma Center  11  822,727  
Bellingham, Washington, United States  Plasma Center  11  710,857  
Iowa City, Iowa, United States  Plasma Center  11 650,820  
Appleton, Wisconsin, United States (BioLife)  Plasma Center  11  619,811  
Cheyenne, Wyoming, United States  Plasma Center  11  574,809  
Casper, Wyoming, United States  Plasma Center  11  446,361  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/health -and-safety/safety -program -management -and-initiatives.html 
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       42 
Fond du Lac, Wisconsin, United States  Plasma Center  11  362,574  
El Paso, Texas, United States  Distribution  11  69,439  
Guayama, Puerto Rico  Manufacturing  10  6,143,821  
Alathur, India  Manufacturing  10  6,071,431  
Miyazaki, Japan  Manufacturing  10  5,795,962  
Laguna, Philippines  Manufacturing  10  4,187,496  
Chennai, India  Manufacturing  10  1,645,150  
Athens, Greece  Office  10  1,265,112  
Höchstadt, Germany  Distribution  10  1,255,985  
Mumbai, India  Office  10  879,686  
Springfield, Missouri, United States  Plasma Center  10  680,525  
Janesville, Wisconsin, United States  Plasma Center  10  663,151  
Allerod, Denmark  Commercial 
Operations  10  643,809  
Thames Valley, Oxford, United Kingdom 
(Compounding)  Commercial 
Operations  10  464,240  
Obetz, Ohio, United States  Distribution  10  104,979  
Warrendale, Pennsylvania, United States  Renal Distribution  10  73,417  
DePew, New York, United States Renal Distribution  10  69,174  
Houston, Texas, United States  Renal Distribution  10  60,351  
San Antonio, Texas, United States  Renal Distribution  10  47,155  
Munich, Germany  Office  9  5,648,449  
Bohumil, Czech Republic  Manufacturing  8  4,339,271  
Madrid, Spain  Office  8  1,425,539  
Sesto, Italy  Manufacturing  8  1,202,446  
Utrecht, Netherlands  Commercial 
Operations  7  1,339,015  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/health -and-safety/safety -program -management -and-initiatives.html 
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       43 
Warsaw, Poland  Office  7 1,099,601  
Mississauga, Canada  Office  6  6,403,728  
Rieti, Italy  Manufacturing  6  2,136,089  
Baulkham Hills, Australia  Commercial 
Operations  6  1,233,979  
Waluj, India  Manufacturing  5 6,960,067  
Atlacomulco, Mexico  Manufacturing  5 4,299,499  
Baxter Qiaoguang, China  Manufacturing  5  3,217,976  
Grosotto, Italy  Manufacturing  5  2,791,035  
Lessines B3, Belgium  Commerical 
Operations  5  1,397,749  
Buenos Aires, Argentina  Distribution  5  1,273,375  
Aibonito, Puerto Rico  Manufacturing  4  9,272,507  
Istanbul, Turkey  Manufacturing  4  6,425,629  
Cherry Hill, New Jersey, United States  Manufacturing  4  4,583,683  
Oued Ellil, Tunisia  Manufacturing  4  3,854,941  
Round Lake, Illinois, United States (William 
Graham Buildings 2 and 3)  Research  4  3,329,981  
Round Lake, Illinois, United States (Medication 
Delivery Headquarters)  Offices  4  3,197,828  
Heredia, Costa Rica (Baxter America Services)  Office  4  1,430,411  
Round Lake, Illinois  Research  3  4,247,928  
McGaw Park, Illinois, United States  Research  3 2,814,047  
Alliston, Canada  Manufacturing  3  2,206,613  
New Providence, New Jersey, United States  Research  3 1,668,980  
Ecuador (Renal Therapy Services Sites)  Commercial 
Operations  3 1,207,197  
Orth/Donau, Austria  Research  2  4,444,931  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/health -and-safety/safety -program -management -and-initiatives.html 
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       44 
Neuchâtel, Switzerland  Manufacturing  2  2,667,095  
Compton, United Kingdom  Commercial 
Operations  2  1,935,732  
Sabiñánigo, Spain  Manufacturing  2  1,234,004  
Maurepas, France  Commercial 
Operations  2  1,130,513  
Vienna, Austria (Combined Sites)  Manufacturing  1  5,896,205  
Cali, Colombia  Manufacturing  1 4,081,006  
Cartago, Costa Rica  Manufacturing  1  4,032,737  
Colombia (Renal Therapy Services Sites) Commercial 
Operations  1  3,100,102  
Jayuya, Puerto Rico  Manufacturing  1  2,371,556  
Castlebar and Swinford, Ireland  Manufacturing  1  2,296,729  
São Paulo, Brazil  Manufacturing  1  1,641,961  
Medina, New York, United States  Manufacturing  1  1,189,167  
Deerfield, Illinois, United States (Corporate 
Staff)  Office  0  1,699,931  
Cuernavaca, Mexico  Manufacturing  0  1,621,787  
Bloomington, Indiana, United States 
(Medication Delivery)  Manufacturing  0  1,599,069  
Manesar, India  Manufacturing  0  1,342,514  
Deerfield, Illinois, United States (Medical 
Products)  Offices  0 1,139,343  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/health -and-safety/safety -program -management -and-initiatives.html 
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       45 
Safety Program Management and Initiatives  
Baxter's safety, occupational health and industrial hygiene functions establish the company’s strategies in those areas and s ponsor 
global teams of corporate, regional, site and business -unit safety professional s to help refine and implement related approaches. These 
teams set priorities and establish, maintain and continually improve global programs and initiatives.  
Several indicators measure safety performance at Baxter. Recordable case rate and cases with days  lost rate are integrated into senior 
managers' annual performance management objectives and progress on these metrics impacts their compensation. The company also  
tracks serious incidents and evaluates each serious event that takes place, to fully underst and root causes and prevent recurrence. The 
EHS organization reports employee safety performance to Baxter’s senior leadership every other month and to Baxter’s manufact uring 
and supply chain management monthly. The EHS organization also communicates this performance to the company’s Board of 
Directors.  
Enhancing Safety Culture and Performance  
In 2012, Baxter strengthened its three -pronged approach to enhancing its safety culture and performance (see graphic) based on a 
review of historical performance tren ds. 
Focused injury -reduction strategies.  Ergonomics hazards are a 
leading source of injury at Baxter. The company piloted several 
ergonomic risk assessment tools in 2012 to identify appropriate methods to consistently measure ergonomic risk. To improve performance in this area, Baxter developed a mechanism to capture and share best practices at its facilities globally. In addition, in the 
North America region, Baxter deployed Safety in Motion® “train -the-
trainer” programming, which teaches simple and effective techniques 
to make everyday work act ivities, such as lifting, carrying, pushing 
and pulling objects, as well as driving, easier and safer.  
Emphasis on high -hazard sources.  Recognizing that serious injuries tend to arise from a specific subset of “high hazards,” Baxter’s 
BioScience business unit is implementing a high -hazard management program. This program, planned to run through 2015, focuses on 
proactively identifying potential high hazards and systematically reducing the risk of injury through engineering solutions, enhanced 
operational c ontrols and training. In 2012, the company performed 322 “high -risk” assessments, and implemented changes to reduce 
risk to acceptable levels in 84 cases. In the North America and Europe, Middle East and Africa regions, teams piloted the use  of 
portable te chnology to engage frontline employees in the hazard identification process.  
The Future State of Safety task force . Launched in late 2011, this multidisciplinary team conducted internal and external 
benchmarking, performed a literature review and met with  safety thought leaders in 2012 to identify essential elements and strategies 
that drive a strong, integrated safety culture. This team will continue to work to identify the steps Baxter must take to adv ance to the 
next level of safety performance.  
Other Safety Programs and Initiatives  
Case Management 
Baxter has established strong capabilities at the facility level to effectively manage work -related injures though early intervention and 
prompt treatment. The company continues to maintain a network of local program owners through ongoing education. In 2012, Baxter 
verified that 86% of all locations with 25 or more employees have an active case management program in place using established 
criteria . 
As a result of Baxter’s multidisciplinary approach to work -injury management, the company’s average incurred cost per claim in the 
United States, determined 18 months after the incident, was 49% lower in 2011 than the average client data of Baxter’s thi rd party 
administrator
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/health -and-safety/safety -program -management -and-initiatives.html 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/health -and-safety/health -and-wellness -management -and-initiatives.html 
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       46 
Confined Space 
During 2012, Baxter continued to strengthen its confined space program management through deployment of enhanced guidance 
documents, global training and focused site visits. In addition, the company  developed and published a dedicated confined space 
intranet site to enhance access to tools and resources.  
Fall Prevention 
Slips, trips and falls are a maj or source of injury for Baxter. The company’s focused strategy to reduce risks from falls includes providing 
a dedicated intranet site with tools and resources. Facilities are encouraged to map the location of slips, trips and falls a nd to implement 
corre ctive and preventive actions based on identified root causes. During 2012, Baxter enhanced its tools to reach employees in 
multiple languages and provide entertaining methods to engage them in hazard identification and avoidance.  
Near Miss Reporting 
Near m iss reporting continues to be an effective strategy to engage employees in the process of identifying and mitigating hazards in 
the workplace. Baxter uses 10 criteria to define an effective near miss program, including the expectation that sites will in vestigate 
serious near miss incidents and implement appropriate corrective and preventive actions. Using these criteria, Baxter met its  goal to 
verify effective programs in 75% of all locations with 100 or more employees. 
Safety Bulletins 
Baxter developed saf ety bulletins in 2011 to communicate key safety topics to employees. The company has used these to quickly and 
effectively reinforce vital safety messages at the facility level. During 2012, Baxter distributed new safety bulletins for c onfined space 
entry,  drill press safety and lockout/tagout (hazardous energy control).  
1Broadspire/Crawford “ Workers’ Compensation & Liability Strategic Outcomes Report,” October 2012  
 
Health and Wellness Program Management  
and Initiatives 
Baxter's occupational health function sets the company’s strategies related to health and wellness and uses a global team of diverse health 
professionals to help refine and implement these approaches. This team defines specific priorities and establishes, maintains and continually 
improves global strategies in this area.  
BeWell@Baxter  
Baxter recognizes that healthy employees are more likely to be engaged and productive, and are less vulnerable to safety inci dents and 
injuries. Through BeWell@Baxter, the co mpany’s global employee health and wellness effort, Baxter strives to create a culture that promotes 
work-related and personal health, raises awareness about these issues and supports individual accountability and engagement.  
The cornerstone of BeWell@Baxt er is the Personal Wellness Profile, an online health risk assessment that helps employees understand how 
their lifestyle choices, family history and other factors impact their health. In conjunction with the year -long theme of 'Know Your Numbers,' 
31% of the company’s employees worldwide completed a Personal Wellness Profile as of the end of 2012.1 Also during the year, more than 
10,000 employees logged greater than 150,000 hours of exercise as part of the BeWell@Baxter Exercise Challenge, and 62% of em ployees 
from 114 facilities worldwide took part in “Healthy Eating Month.”  
See Case Study: The Baxter Know Your Numbers Program Saved My Life .Othe r Programs and Initiatives  
Baxter's occupational health team also works to continually improve the company's performance with the following programs and  initiatives:  
• Flu vaccine  – In 2012, in all but one facility with 25 or more employees, Baxter offered seasonal flu vaccinations to all employees. A total 
of 19,465 employees were protected with seasonal flu vaccinations, or 38% of the company’s total employee population.  
• Health promotion programs – In 2012, 78% of targeted facilities (those with 100 or more employees) achieved at least eight out of 10 
health -promotion program crit eria, exceeding the goal of 65%	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2012 -report/safety- strides.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2012 -report/know -your-numbers.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       47 
• Smoke -free workplaces  – The company  increased the percentage of smoke -free facilities to 89%, from 75% in 2008. All Baxter facilities 
in Asia Pacific, North America and Latin America are now smoke -free. 
1Beginning in 2011, profiles untouched for three years were removed from the active data base, bringing the participation rate down to 24%.  
Case Study: Facility Finds  
Success in Behavior -Based Safety  
Baxter's facility in Cali, Colombia, which has about 1,000 employees, produces intravenous solutions and medical sets. Consis tent with 
the site' s activities, the most common types of accidents and injuries historically relate to machine use, ergonomics, and slips, trip s and 
falls.  
At the beginning of 2008, the site began using a behavior -based safety (BBS) training observation program. BBS is an analytical 
approach to safety that focuses on what actions people take in a work setting, analyzes why they behave that way, and then ap plies a 
research -supported strategy to identify inappropriate and unsafe behaviors, recognize safe ones, and ultimately prevent injuries.  
An operator uses new equipment to move rolls of plastic sheeting, mitigating ergonomic risk associated with manipulating these 
materials manually.  
Employees and supervisors both play an essential role, using cards to report unsafe conditi ons and behaviors that can adversely affect 
worker safety, as well as behaviors that enhance safety. This information is tracked centrally and analyzed on a periodic bas is. Each 
observation is coded using relevant topics such as "tools and equipment" and " use of personal protective equipment." Using this data, 
the facility can determine how to reinforce positive behaviors and modify or eliminate conditions and behaviors that contribu te to 
workplace risk.  
A high level of engagement is essential to the succ ess of this 
type of program. During 2012, more than 2,200 observations 
were made. Of those, the vast majority (72%) related to unsafe 
conditions (as opposed to employee behaviors). In terms of topics, nearly two -thirds (65%) of total observations focused o n 
tools and equipment.  
Observation by Type, 2012 
Unsafe Conditions  72% 
Unsafe Behaviors  15% 
Safe Behaviors  13% 
Observations by Topic, 2012*  
Tools and Equipment  65% 
Use of Personal Protective Equipment  12% 
Procedures, Cleanliness and Order  10% 
Person's Response  7% 
Position of the Person  5% 
  
* Segments do not total 100% due to rounding . 
	  
Based on information collected through this program, the facility has implemented several changes in recent years:
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2012 -report/safety- strides.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2012 -report/know -your-numbers.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       48 
• Enhanced machine guarding 
• Expanded use of personal protective equipment  
• Enhanced risk analysis/assessment  
• Developed an online collaboration site to manage the program  
The Cali site has improved its safety performance according to several key indicators since launching the BBS progr am. Compared to 
2007, the year before the initiative began, the facility has dramatically reduced incidents, recordable cases, and days lost (see table). 
As of mid -2013 employees at the facility have worked more than 5 million hours without a days lost cas e.  
 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 
Incidents*  201 155 137 69 49 46 
Recordable  
Cases**  9 3 4 3 3 1 
Days Lost***  95 16 12 20 13 0 
* Work -related injuries or illnesses requiring first -aid. 
** Work -related injuries or illnesses requiring medical attention beyond first -aid, including cases with days lost.  
*** The number of days lost (including weekends and holidays) recommended by the most authoritative physician's opinion due to 
 work -related injuries or illnesses. Baxter does not count the date o f injury and date of return to full duty as lost days.  
 
"The implementation of the BBS program has enhanced the safety culture at our facility by furthering staff engagement to 
recognize unsafe conditions and encourage safe behaviors, resulting in improved  safety and fewer accidents. Employees are 
now more committed to building and maintaining a safe workplace."  
                      Vanessa Benitez Gonzalez, plastic plant operator,  
                      Cali Plant, Baxter  
 
Periodic training is a key aspe ct of the BBS program, and during 2013 all employees will receive safety training. The training includes 
general information about the program as well as presentations and video recreations of specific types of accidents, to illustrate unsafe 
attitudes, co nditions and behaviors, and how to correct them. The Cali facility is dedicated to continually building on its strong 
performance and experiencing another year without a days lost case.  
 
Case Study: The Baxter 'Know Your Numbers' Program 
Saved My Life 
Casey Goins works as an assembler in Baxter’s Mountain Home, 
Arkansas, plant, which produces peritoneal dialysis products for the North 
American market. In 2010, at age 19, he was bitten by a tick and diagnosed 
with Rocky Mountain spotted fever, a potentially  fatal disease.  
He was treated for that condition, but continued to suffer severe health 
problems. "I was extremely tired all of the time, my hair was thinning, my skin was very pale, and I was unable to do the things I wanted to do," he says.  
For two years, Casey visited numerous doctors to determine what was
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2012 -report/know -your-numbers.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2012 -report/environmental -initiatives.html 
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       49 
 wrong. During that period, he also developed liver failure and endured a painful biopsy. However, he received no answers from  his 
doctors.  
Around that time, Casey saw a Be Well@Baxter ’Know Your Numbers’ poster on the wall of the plant. He decided to have some more 
blood work done through the program. "It was free, and the nurse in Employee Health Service worked me right in," he says.  
The next day, Mountain Home’s Occupation al Health Nurse Amy Thalmueller, RN COHN/CM, informed Casey that his thyroid levels 
were 25 times normal, and his liver, kidney, cholesterol and platelet levels were also significantly abnormal.  
"Although I was being treated by numerous specialists, I did not have a family doctor. The Baxter nurses helped me get an appointment 
with a local primary care physician. He immediately recognized that my thyroid condition was causing all my severe health pro blems, 
including major organ failure," Casey says. Additio nal exams by the team of medical specialists confirmed the diagnosis.  
Casey is now being treated for hypothyroidism, taking just one medication a day. "Within days of starting my thyroid medicine , I noticed 
a huge difference in my health. I am now able to go to the gym with my friends, play sports, and I can run an eight -minute mile. My hair 
is growing in thicker, I have much more energy, and I am no longer pale." Casey’s primary care physician believes that a simp le thyroid 
test two years ago would have le d doctors to properly treat his illness, reducing his suffering and avoiding unnecessary medical testing.  
Casey encourages everyone at Baxter to participate in similar programs at local facilities. "I strongly believe the BeWell@Ba xter ’Know 
Your Numbers’ Program saved my life," Casey says.  
For Amy Thalmueller, working with Casey was personally rewarding. "I’m proud to be able to offer such great wellness programs  to our 
employees. Situations like this make my job very fulfilling."  
Sharon Kemerer, corporate  director, Occupational Health and Safety in the Baxter Environment, Health and Safety group and co -leader 
of BeWell@Baxter, says everyone involved in the initiative is thrilled about Casey’s recovery. "Experiences like this support  our decision 
to implement BeWell@Baxter, and show why we encourage people to know their numbers."  
Baxter facilities are encouraged to hold ’Know Your Numbers’ events for employees to determine their blood pressure, choleste rol, 
glucose and body mass index, and in some cases add itional tests are performed as well. These four indicators provide a snapshot of 
health and a road map for making improvements. "By knowing these numbers, employees can gauge their risk for serious health 
problems such as cardiovascular disease, diabetes, stroke and even dementia," says Kemerer. "When employees make changes in 
their lifestyle, these numbers can mark progress."  
Case Study: Employees Drive Innovative Environmental 
Initiatives 
Baxter's sustainability priorities and goals provide a framework and climate that have sparked 
many employee -initiated, innovative ideas, some of which are described in this case study.  
These initiatives, which demonstrate employees' widespread commitment to sustainability, are 
helping Baxter make progress toward its energy efficiency, renewable energy and greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions reduction goals.  
"Employees at facilities globally understand Baxter's corporate goals and are approaching their 
supervisors with ideas and a business case for how they can benefit the local facility, the 
company and the environment," said Art Gibson, vice president, EHS and Sustainability. "Employee engagement in identifying innovative ways to achieve sustainability goals is 
growing, leading to more exciting projects in 2013 and beyond. " 
To foster these types of projects, Baxter empowers employees to take initiative, recognizes 
their efforts, and communicates results broadly. This enables more sites to learn about these 
initiatives and consider whether similar efforts could benefit their  facility.  
Some recent examples include:
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2012 -report/environmental -initiatives.html 
© Copyright 201 3 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       50 
Photovoltaic (PV)  - In late 2012, Baxter's Malta facility began work on an 840 kWp1 on -site PV system. Completed during the second 
quarter of 2013,  this is the company's largest solar energy system, and will provide approximately 23% of the site's electricity and 
reduce its GHG emissions by 1,100 metric tons carbon dioxide equivalent CO2e annually. When the government of Malta approache d 
the plant in  2012 with financial incentives to install the solar system, several employees at the facility - including Brian Tabone, plant 
manager; Mario Scerri, facilities manager; and Melvin Vassallo, senior accountant - evaluated 
the details and committed to the pr oject. The Malta plant also excels at energy efficiency. For 
example, it has achieved Gold status in Baxter's Lean Energy Program and is a leader within 
Baxter in LED lighting. In 2012, Baxter's Toongabbie, Australia, facility completed installation of a PV system that meets the electricity needs of the office complex with the exception of the 
HVAC system.  
Greener Fuel - By the end of 2012, all three Baxter facilities in India had switched from 
powering their boilers with fuel oil to using lower GHG emiss ion (and less costly) sources of 
energy. The Waluj, India, site installed a new biomass boiler in early 2012. The Alathur facility 
converted its second boiler to biomass in late 2012, after converting its first boiler the prior year. 
Also in 2012, the Mane sar facility switched from using fuel oil to regassified liquefied natural 
gas, a lower carbon fuel. Together, these changes have reduced GHG emissions by about 
8,000 metric tons CO2e and save Baxter $600,000 annually. See Case Study: Facilities in India 
Switch to Greener Boiler Fuel  for more detail.  
Facilities in Guangzhou and Shanghai, China, switched from using fuel oil to natural gas in late  
2012. To spearhead the effort at the Shanghai plant, facility supervisor Guo Rundong formed a 
natural gas conversion project team, which worked with a local company to negotiate gas 
supply to the facility and engaged vendors to convert the boiler to burn natural gas. Together at 
both locations, these initiatives will reduce GHG emissions by an estimated 5,000 metric tons 
CO2e annually and save $700,000 each year. The enhancements also decrease other emissions substantially, for example reducing sulfur oxide emissions by 90% and nitrogen oxide emissions by 89% at the Shanghai plant. (See Air Emissions  for more information about 
Baxter's str ong performance in this area during the past two years.)  
Geothermal - Baxter's BioScience facility in Orth, Austria, installed a geothermal system in 
2012 in its new green building. This technology, which uses the constant temperature of ground water in a heat pump system for cooling and heating the building, reduces energy costs for this 
building by about $22,000 per year. Due to this and several other initiatives, the Orth facility has achieved Gold status in Baxter's Lean Energy Program. In mid -2012, t he company's Malta 
facility also began operation of a geothermal system that provides cooler groundwater to the plant's cooling towers to increase thermal efficiency of the plant's chilled water system during the warm summer months. Together, these will de crease Baxter's GHG emissions by 500 
metric tons CO2e annually.  
Light -Emitting Diode (LED) Lighting - Employees at several Baxter facilities have 
implemented projects to convert traditional lighting to more advanced LED technology, which reduces energy use  and associated GHG emissions by as much as 60- 80%, depending on the 
lighting technology and application, compared to typical lighting. For example, by the end of 
2012:  
• The Malta facility had changed 95% of its lighting to LED technology.  
• The Guayama, Puer to Rico, facility had converted more than 80% of its 250 -watt High -
Intensity Discharge lamps to LED fixtures (completed in early -2013).  
The Thetford, UK, facility had changed 85% of its lighting to LED technology, saving an estimated $100,000 annually.
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2012 -report/water -project -philippines.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       51 
Together, these updates will reduce GHG emissions at the sit es by about 800 metric tons CO2e each year.  
Ensuring that LED fixtures meet industrial requirements can be complex. Beginning in 2006, Kenneth Mockford, UK energy effici ency 
and engineering manager at Baxter's Thetford site, experimented with several possi ble LED solutions to find cost -effective options that 
provide stable voltage. Convinced of the potential of this technology, he performed custom conversions of the fittings and co nducted 
tests to demonstrate the effectiveness of the technology. Due to these efforts, 85% of the site is now lit by LEDs, achieving energy 
savings of 60%. The benefits have spread beyond Baxter as well. Engineers from a local professional body are tapping into Ken neth's 
expertise, and local manufacturers and suppliers have sent n ew designs for evaluation.  
These employee -led initiatives have helped strengthen Baxter's environmental performance during 2012 and have contributed to 
progress toward the company's sustainability goals. Baxter looks forward to implementing more such proj ects in the coming years.  
1Kilowatt -peak (kWp) refers to the maximum electricity generation capacity of the system.  
Case Study: Addressing Community Water Needs in the 
Philippines  
Baxter's manufacturing facility in Canlubang , Philippines, built in 1991, produces containers of solutions for peritoneal dialysis and 
hemodialysis for the region. Water is a key input for these products and also a precious resource in the area, defined as a " water -scarce 
region" by the World Busine ss Council for Sustainable Development. Therefore, preserving water resources and increasing access to 
water are not just priorities for Baxter, but for this site as well.  
In 2012, Baxter launched a project with Philippine Center for Water and Sanitation (PCWS) to improve the water, sanitation and hygiene 
(WASH) conditions for the nearly 1,500 inhabitants of Sitio Silangan, a community within walking distance of the company's fa cility. 
PCWS builds the capabilities of communities, households, non -government al organizations (NGOs) and other groups to address WASH 
challenges throughout the country. Volunteers from the Baxter plant, which employs about 200 employees, actively support this  
initiative.  
The project's main objectives include:  
• Introducing long- term potable water sources to Sitio Silangan;  
• Raising awareness about low -cost water supply, sanitation and hygiene technologies for households and the community that 
enhance human health, community empowerment and environmental protection;  
• Implementing and pro viding hands -on training on several such technologies; and  
• Building the community's capability to sustainably manage its water supply and sanitation systems.  
During the final two months of 2012, PCWS and six volunteers from Baxter met with community member s to assess the water and 
sanitation needs of Sitio Silangan, define the roles of project participants, and prepare community members for the project.  
PCWS then led a two -day water and sanitation resources inventory and assessment, attended by about 50 co mmunity members. Each 
of six groups drew a water and sanitation map of their locality, indicating the locations of water sources, households, toile ts, drainage 
systems, roads, animal housing areas, public areas, landmarks, creeks and other relevant feature s. The groups then walked through 
the community to fine -tune their maps and gather additional input from other residents.  
Several key findings from this assessment have informed the rest of the project:  
• Access to water  - Most households have relatively e asy access to hand pump wells. However, most of those wells, both communal 
and household -owned, produce non -potable water that is iron -laden, turbid, foul smelling and poor tasting.  
• Potable water  - In the entire community, only seven hand pumps yield pota ble water. As a result, most households either buy 
drinking water or collect potable water from near the gate of the Baxter facility.  
• Waste and wastewater  - Drainage usually leads to the creek, which is the depository of various wastes, including wastewat er and 
toilet wastes from houses located along its banks. The septic tanks in Sitio Silangan have unlined bottoms, so the soil absor bs 
related waste and wastewater.  
To address these needs, the focus of the project then shifted to low -cost water supply and sanitation technologies. PCWS experts 	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2012 -report/water -project -philippines.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       52 
described numerous options, and project participants 
identified four as the most appropriate for the community.  
 
WASH Technologies Selected for 
the Project  
During the first few months of 2013, PCWS supplied the 
needed materials that Baxter helped finance, and trained 
community members to build, operate, maintain and repair 
pilot demonstration units of two iron removal filters, 40 
biosand filters, three biogas digester septic tanks and two 
rainwater harvesting tanks. Th e team situated these units 
close to community members who have the least financial 
resources, are most impacted by water scarcity and lack of 
access to potable water, and lack safe and adequate 
sanitation facilities.  
Community members, Baxter employees an d PCWS 
commemorated the launch of these pilot units at the "First 
Drop of Water" celebration during the annual fiesta of Sitio Silangan in March 2013. Using these technologies, community residents are increasingly meeting their daily 
needs for potable and non-potable water.  
 
 
Project Sustainability  
To maintain initiatives started by the Baxter -PCWS partnership, the Sitio Silangan  community 
formed a water and sanitation association (WSA). Officers have gained expertise in the 
WASH technologies selected by the community, and a Baxter employee who is also a 
resident of Sitio Silangan serves as the WSA Secretary.  
Ongoing education is  essential to ensure broad engagement throughout the community. One 
aspect covered by the WSA action plan is raising awareness about the benefits of WASH 
technologies. WSA members meet weekly to share information with community members, targeting the needi est who have the greatest potential to benefit.  
The close involvement of community members throughout the initiative has been a key focus, and many now have the skills to help develop and disseminate WASH technologies more broadly. Residents whose househ olds received these technologies participate in educational initiatives.  
In May 2013, community members along with five Baxter employees from the Canlubang plant attended training focused on operati ng 
and maintaining WASH technologies. Additional sessions  are planned for the coming year, including a unit focused on monitoring and 
evaluation. The plan is for each household with WASH technologies to monitor efficiency and performance, and in coordination with 
PCWS, for the WSA to conduct regular water qualit y testing on biosand filters.  
Another training session will provide guidance on how participants can document and share their experiences during seminars a nd 
conferences.  
Due partly to these efforts, a growing number of people in Sitio Silangan  have expressed a desire for WASH technologies. The project 
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2012 -report/water -project -philippines.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       53 
team expects that more rainwater harvesting tanks will be built in Sitio Silangan in time for the rainy season.  
The WSA action plan also targets collaboration with learning institutions, NGOs and  other communities, to deepen local knowledge 
while sharing experience and skills.  
In May 2013, PCWS brought five people from the French NGO Eau et Vie Philippines (Water and Life Philippines), which runs 
community projects in Cavite and Cebu, to Sitio Si langan. The WSA shared with the visiting delegation details on ways the project and 
community members selected and implemented WASH technologies, and then provided a tour to show the benefits firsthand.  
Eau et Vie Philippines also invited the Sitio Silang an WSA to its project site in Cavite, where it is planning a sanitation project in 
partnership with PCWS. This connection should help the Sitio Silangan WSA to learn more about low -cost wastewater treatment for 
households and the community. 
In August 2013, WSA members plan to attend the Sustainable Shared Growth Conference  at the University of the Philippines, and 
present a paper about their experience in Sitio Silanga n. 
Other Initiatives  
In early 2013, Baxter also entered into a partnership with Sarar Transformación SC to implement a community water project nea r 
Baxter's facility in Cuernavaca, Mexico. The project's goals are to improve water and sanitary conditions at  local schools in the 
surrounding water -stressed area of Tepoztlán, Mexico; to educate the community on sustainable water use; and to implement 
processes to ensure maintenance of the installed improvements. Nearly 1,000 residents of the Tepoztlán area are expected to benefit 
from this project.  
 
 Product Responsibilty 	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/index.html  
© Copyright 2013 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved         2 Product Responsibility 
 
Baxter develops, manufactures and markets products for people with hemophilia, immune disorders, 
infectious diseases, kidney disease, trauma, and other chronic and acute medical conditions. The company's 
products are infused,  injected or inhaled more than two billion times annually, to treat life -threatening acute or 
chronic conditions.  
 
While delivering products that save or sustain lives, Baxter also works to address environmental and social issues across the  product 
life cycle. These range from sustainable design and bioethics during research and development, to energy and materials efficiency 
during manufacturing and transport, to responsible advertising and promotion, and finally, product repair, refurbishment and recycli ng 
for electronic products as appropriate at end -of-life. Baxter also has programs to ensure high standards in quality, safety and product 
integrity. 
To further these efforts, Baxter launched a new Product Sustainability Program in 2012, building on extens ive partnership with the R&D, 
marketing and supply chain groups. The program team initiated new projects to define life cycle environmental impacts for bot h 
individual products and entire therapies.  
The following graphic illustrates the breadth and depth o f the company's approach.  
Sustainability Issues Across the Product Life Cycle  
 
 
 
 
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/index.html  
© Copyright 2013 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved         3 Product Sustainability Trends  
The importance of product sustainability to Baxter's ongoing success continues to grow, due to several factors:  
• Increasing customer requir ements, expectations and concerns (see Case Study: Engaging with Stakeholders on Product 
Environmental Performance ); 
• New and expa nding regulatory requirements globally (see Case Study: Materials Restrictions ); and  
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/index.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/quality.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/safety.html  
© Copyright 2013 Baxter International Inc. Al l Rights Reserved         4 • Ongoing pressure from non -governmental organizations to improve product environmental and social performance.  
To better understand these trends, in 2012 Baxter commissioned a third party to conduct an in -depth analysis. This included 
benchmarking of peer companies, customers and key market leaders, as well a s interviews with internal representatives from research 
and development, supply chain, marketing, and other areas. The study also reviewed product sustainability tools to possibly i ntegrate 
into the company's product stewardship program.  
Key findings incl uded the following:  
• The two leading customer product sustainability issues are decreasing materials of concern (such as PVC, DEHP and mercury) 
and reducing waste (packaging and disposables); 
• Customer focus on product sustainability varies significantly by region (with customers in Europe and California demonstrating the 
strongest interest);  
• Companies have opportunities across the life cycle to influence and improve product sustainability performance, from identify ing 
customer requirements and educating R&D professionals to engaging suppliers and communicating product benefits to customers; 
and 
• Companies across the healthcare industry are responding to similar pressures, with varying levels of focus and investment.  
Baxter is using these findings to inform enh ancements of its Product Sustainability Program during the coming year.  
Quality  
Every day, Baxter products make the difference between life and death for millions of p atients worldwide. The company‘ s reputation 
and ongoing success depend on the quality of  Baxter‘ s products and services. Therefore, uncompromising dedication to quality is a 
guiding principle of the company's culture and is among its shared values .  
Baxter ‘s global quality management system (called "1QSys" for "one quality system") provides a single, global Baxter -wide standard for 
quality. 1QSys offers a consistent approach to managing quality across the product life cycle, including design, development,  
manufacturing, sterilization, labeling, packaging, distribution and promotion. 1QSys helps to address the complexities of managi ng 
across interconnected businesses, regions and manufacturing operations, enhancing the company's ability to meet quality stand ards 
and adapt to changes in a complex regulatory environment.  
Baxter regularly evaluates and reviews its quality management system to identify and correct issues that may affect product a nd service 
quality, and pursues continuous improvement through a range  of data -driven methodologies. One focus is simplifying processes, which 
increases efficiency and prevents potential quality issues from occurring.  
Baxter also assesses its suppliers of raw materials, components and finished goods to track and enhance the ir performance. After 
products are launched, the company executes post- market surveillance to monitor the safety, efficacy and quality of products while in 
use. See Safety for more for more information.  
When Baxter identifies a potential quality or safety issue with one of its products or determines that products manufactured or marketed 
by the company do not meet company specifications, published standards or regulatory  requirements, it investigates and takes 
appropriate preventive and corrective actions. This may include providing notice to the customer of revised labeling, correct ion of the 
problem at the customer location, withdrawal of the product from the market and /or other actions. See Safety  for detail.  
Baxter takes any self -identified quality or safety issues or finding by regulatory authorities very seriously, and establishe s 
comprehensive plans to address the specific findings. As these plans are executed, Baxter also evaluates the identified corre ctive 
actions to determine potential to leverage the improvements on a broader basis.
Safety  
Promoting patient safety is at the c ore of everything Baxter does. The company was founded in 1931 on its ability to produce safe 
intravenous (IV) solutions for hospitals at a time when most hospitals were not equipped to prepare their own.  
Today, Baxter focuses on safety across the product life cycle, from product development and enhancements, to post -market research 
and via pharmacovigilance and post -market surveillance. For example, Baxter’s Pharmacovigilance department identifies and confirms 
pre- and post -market drug safety signals and t hen communicates these potential issues. Through product labeling or risk management 
activities, the department identifies and executes approaches to promote a positive benefit -risk balance of Baxter’s therapeutic drug 
products.  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/safety.html  
© Copyright 2013 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved         5 The company also collaborat es with hospitals to assess their patient safety processes, and partners with customers and third parties to 
develop patient and clinician educational materials and raise safety standards worldwide. This section includes examples of t hese 
efforts, as well as other ways the company enhances patient safety worldwide:  
• Supporting Reduction of Pathogens  
• Improving Product Design  
• Focusing on Decreasing Medication Errors  
• Addressing IVIG Safety  
• Educating Nurses on Safe Practice s 
• Complying with Government Regulations  
• Addressing Product Safety Issues  
Supporting Reduction of Pathogens  
In 1971, Baxter introduced the first flexible, plastic IV bag. As the first “closed system” IV container, the bag did not req uire venting 
during administration. This keeps the solu tion from contacting outside air, helping to minimize contamination.  
Despite evidence that use of closed systems can help reduce pathogens, many hospitals in developing countries continue to use  open 
systems. The compatibility of the Baxter IV System with both infusion pump therapy and gravity applications helps meet safety 
standards for IV replacement.1 Baxter’s IV Standard Sets help reduce the number of set -ups and teardowns which may decrease the 
risk of touch contamination.2 
Baxter works with government s and healthcare providers to help conduct studies, set standards and implement conversion to standard 
set technology in numerous markets to help improve efficiency and waste.  
For example, in 2012, Baxter honored the first recipient of the Baxter Colombia Patient Safety Prize, Hospital Pablo Tobon Uribe in 
Medellin. Launched in 2011, the award recognizes leading hospitals for outstanding efforts in preventing hospital -acquired infections. 
Representatives from Joint Commission International and Baxter held a  training session for more than 60 multidisciplinary teams from 
across the region on improving medication practices for patient safety.  
Improving Product Design  
Baxter Healthcare Corporation recently expanded its IV (intravenous) connector portfolio to inc lude the ONE -LINK needle -free IV 
connector, launching in Canada in 2011 and in the United States in 2012. The ONE -LINK connector features neutral displacement and 
is intended for single patient use with a vascular access device for the administration of dr ugs and solutions without needles and can be 
used to aspirate blood. It builds upon the INTERLINK system, promoting a needle -free platform that Baxter pioneered more than 20 
years ago to help protect healthcare workers from needle sticks.  
One of the most c ommon types of noninfectious complications with central venous catheters (CVCs) —a catheter placed into a large 
vein in the neck or chest —is that blood can back up into the catheter and form a clot that could occlude the catheter, which may lead to 
complica tions. As many as one in three CVCs will become occluded.3 The ONE -LINK connector is designed to help prevent reflux of 
blood back into the tip of the catheter upon connection or disconnection. This may to help reduce the risk of thrombotic occl usions 
comp ared to other devices with higher reflux volumes.4 
Focusing on Decreasing Medication Errors  
Baxter helps address potential medication errors in several ways, including by providing innovative tools for in -house compounding, 
updating labeling for premix sol utions, producing smart infusion pump technology and supporting programs that reduce medication 
errors. 
Baxter also continues to improve product packaging and labeling to help reduce the potential for medication errors due to inc orrect drug 
selection. For example, the company voluntarily redesigned the labels of six existing intravenous (IV) premix drug labels based on data 
from practicing healthcare providers and human factors research. By decreasing the clutter and treating information more simp ly and 
consistently, Baxter sought to improve readability and product differentiation. The new labels take advantage of increased white  space 
and reduced clutter. In addition, key information —including the medication’s name, total strength per total volume, strength  per mL, and 
container total volume— were placed in a hierarchical format.  
“Harmful medication errors not only jeopardize a patient’s safety, but also lead to longer hospital stays and higher healthca re costs. I 
commend Baxter for working to prevent errors and potential patient harm by continually monitoring actual and potential medication 	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/safety.html  
© Copyright 2013 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved         6 errors related to its products and identifying ways to improve the medication -use system,” said Michael R. Cohen, RPh, MS, ScD, 
FASHP, president of the Institute for Safe Medication Practices, a non -profit healthcare organization that specializes in understanding 
the causes of medication errors and providing error -reduction strategies to the healthcare community, policy makers, and the public. 
Baxter’s new labels are an imp ortant step in reducing confusing and non- distinct drug labeling; two factors that significantly contribute to 
medical errors, Cohen said.  
Compounding remains an important part of the pharmacy process. Some compounds are unstable and thus require mixing in  the 
pharmacy based on the exact specifications and needs of each patient, while others can be premixed outside of the pharmacy. B axter 
produces premixed IV drugs so hospital pharmacists do not have to prepare these critical medications themselves. Baxter was the first 
company to work with other pharmaceutical firms to premix their drugs in IV solution, and is the only manufacturer of frozen premixed 
drugs for compounds that are not stable at room temperature. Based on the company’s experience in sterile ma nufacturing of critical 
medications, Baxter uses specialized processes to ensure the sterility of its manufactured products.  
For IV drugs that must be administered in a very specific dose or have other special requirements, Baxter operates pharmacy 
compoun ding centers in some countries. Hospital pharmacies transmit prescriptions electronically to the Baxter compounding center, 
where pharmacists and technicians prepare patient -specific doses under sterile conditions and deliver them to the hospital ready for  
administration. Baxter also continues to improve product packaging and labeling to help reduce the potential for medication e rrors. The 
company was the first to develop a readable bar code for clear, flexible IV bags.  
Baxter also offers pharmacy technolo gy that enhances the efficiency and safety of oral and IV dose preparation and delivery. For 
example, the DoseEdge Pharmacy Workflow Manager, an integrated system for managing IV and oral dose preparation activities, h as 
delivered nearly 16.5 million error -free doses as of the end of 2012. Of these, 4% were identified as potential medication errors and 
caught prior to administration. DoseEdge prevents approximately 6,300 potential medication errors per week. Following Baxter’ s 2011 
acquisition of Baxa Corpo ration, other products now in its portfolio include the ExactaMix Compounder, a device that automates multi -
ingredient solution compounding; ExactaMed Syringes, dispensers that provide greater accuracy for dosing oral liquid medicati ons; and 
the NeoThrive Enteral Feeding System, enteral syringes and accessories.  
In April 2012 Baxter completed its purchase of SIGMA International General Medical Apparatus, LLC (SIGMA). SIGMA develops and  
manufactures smart infusion pump technology including the Spectrum large volume pump (LVP), which provides advanced safety and 
clinician -friendly features. The Spectrum smart infusion system features Dose Error Reduction Software with hospital -defined Drug 
Libraries including dosing limits and clinical advisories. When a clini cian programs an infusion, the software verifies that the dose meets 
facility -determined parameters. If the programmed infusion is outside of the pre -determined dosing limits, the pump will alert the 
clinician before the infusion begins. In conjunction wit h the SIGMA transaction, Baxter acquired SIGMA’s product development pipeline, 
which includes a platform of multiple infusion technologies with advanced safety capabilities.  
Baxter's Medical Products business also helps hospitals through its Connections Po rtfolio of programs, which focus on three key 
principles — simplification, streamlining and standardization. These programs, administered by Baxter clinical experts, are based on 
objective observational, interview, and data collection methodologies that ide ntify opportunities for improvement in practice and product 
utilization. In addition, these offerings help to increase staff productivity and patient safety by providing specific recomm endations and 
action plans to improve alignment with nationally recogni zed regulations, standards and guidelines.  
Addressing IVIG Safety  
Thromboembolic events (TEE) can occur during the administration of intravenous immune globulin (IVIG) products. It has been r eported 
that pro- coagulant activity, during which blood clots, ca n be introduced into IVIG products during the manufacturing process.5 
Baxter uses quality procedures to measure thromboembolic impurities throughout its manufacturing processes, including systema tic 
and extensive characterization studies and global and spe cific tests to demonstrate the effective removal of pro -coagulant activity. Data 
indicate that process analysis, combined with quality measures throughout the manufacturing process, is the best way to minim ize 
levels of pro -coagulant activity in the final product.  
To further understand the role of pro -coagulant activity in IVIG, Baxter —along with other manufacturers of IVIG products and 
representatives from regulatory agencies (FDA, Paul -Ehrlich -Institut, National Institute for Biological Standards and Cont rol, and the 
organization now known as the National Agency for the Safety of Medicines and Health Products), academia and organizations 
involved in the use of IVIG — participated in a 2011 workshop held by the Plasma Protein Therapeutics Association and Foo d and Drug 
Administration (FDA) during which regulators from national and international agencies and members of industry convened to dis cuss 
risk mitigation strategies in this area.  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/safety.html  
© Copyright 2013 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved         7 Based on this meeting, the FDA published a paper in 2012 in the journal Tr ansfusion on the development of TEE in patients, based 
largely on data presented at the workshop. It suggested that multiple risk factors can contribute to the development of TEE, including 
the product manufacturing process, patient age, a history of throm oembolic events and the presence of a hypercoagulable state.  
Educating Nurses on Safe Practices  
Baxter offers education programs that provide training and guidance to nurses in the safe and proper use of its products, inc luding: 
• An educator network of nurs es that was available for the first year after FDA approval of the subcutaneous administration of 
GAMMAGARD LIQUID to train other nurses on the administration of both intravenous and subcutaneous infusion, as well as to 
provide extensive materials to help nurses train patients to self -administer the therapy. Nurses are available by phone to answer 
GAMMAGARD LIQUID administration questions from both nurses and patients.  
• The Baxter -sponsored Canadian Institute of Nutrition Excellence (CINE), composed of stake holders dedicated to improving clinical 
support practice, patient outcomes and patient safety in nutrition therapy.  
• A program of continuing education courses about peritoneal dialysis (PD) launched by Baxter’s renal team in Chile for adult a nd 
pediatric nu rses across the country, aimed at keeping nursing professionals informed of the latest studies and best practices in PD. 
Courses in 2012 focused on topics such as the role of the nurse in patient selection and education as well as the prevention of 
periton itis. 
Complying with Government Regulations  
Baxter's operations and products are subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental agencies worldwide. In the Unit ed 
States, the federal agencies that regulate the company's facilities, operations, emp loyees, products (their manufacture, sale, import and 
export) and services include: the FDA, the Drug Enforcement Agency, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Occupational Hea lth 
and Safety Administration, the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Labor, the Department of Defense, Customs and Border 
Protection, the Department of Commerce, the Department of Treasury and others. Because Baxter supplies products and services to 
healthcare providers that are reimbursed by federally funded programs such as Medicare, the company’s activities are also subject to 
regulation by the Center for Medicare/Medicaid Services and enforcement by the Department of Health and Human Services. State  
agencies also regulate the facilities, operations, employees, product s and services of the company within their respective states.  
Outside the United States, Baxter products and operations are subject to extensive regulation by governmental agencies, inclu ding the 
European Medicines Agency in the European Union. Internation al governmental agencies also regulate public health, product 
registration, manufacturing, environmental conditions, labor, imports, exports and other aspects of the company's global oper ations.  
The FDA and other governmental agencies worldwide administer requirements covering the testing, safety, effectiveness, 
manufacturing, labeling, promotion and advertising, distribution and post -market surveillance of Baxter's products. The company must 
obtain approval or clearance from the FDA before it can market an d sell its products in the United States. Other countries have similar 
pre- and post -market registration requirements. Even after the company obtains regulatory approval to market a product, the product 
and the company's manufacturing processes are subject  to continued review by regulatory authorities.  
Addressing Product Safety Issues  
When Baxter identifies a potential quality or safety issue with one of its products or determines that products manufactured or marketed 
by the company do not meet company spe cifications, published standards or regulatory requirements, it investigates and takes 
appropriate corrective action, such as revising labeling, correcting the problem at the customer location, withdrawing the pr oduct from 
the market and/or other actions.  
In another example, Baxter undertook initiatives in 2012 to alert patients and clinicians about the risk of Extraneal —a specialty 
peritoneal dialysis solution containing icodextrin, which is metabolized into maltose —to falsely elevate blood glucose readings when 
non-specific glucose monitoring systems are used. Since December 2008, when the FDA requested that Baxter submit a Risk 
Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) as a precautionary, patient safety endeavor, Baxter has enacted efforts to inform p atients
and clinicians who treat patients who use Extraneal about the potential for this serious issue. These efforts have included p roactively 
engaging trade media and associations as well as creating a website with detailed safety information ( www.glucosesafety.com ). 
Through these efforts, the company aims to educate patients so they can inform health care providers as they receive medical 
treatment outside of a dialysis clinic, and physicians, so that they use the co rrect glucose monitoring system. Additional details on 
regulatory matters currently being addressed by the company are available under the heading "Certain Regulatory Matters" in B axter’s 
most recent periodic report filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on Form 10 -K or 10 -Q. Details on product 
liability, patent, commercial and other legal matters currently being addressed by Baxter are available in the note to the co mpany’s 	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/safet y.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/product -integrity.html  
© Copyright 2013 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved         8 consolidated financial statement entitled “Legal Proceedings”  in Baxter’s most recent periodic report filed with the SEC on Form 10 -K or 
Form 10- Q. 
The devices referenced within are Rx only. For safe and proper use of all devices please refer to the complete Instructions f or Use. Full 
prescribing information for Ext raneal can be found here.  
1 O’Grady NP, Alexander M, Dellinger EP, et al. Guidelines for the Prevention of Intravascular Catheter -Related Infections. Infecti on Control 
Hosp Epidemiol. 2002 Dec;23 (12):759 -69.  
2 Raad I, Hanna HA, Awad A, et. Al. Optimal Frequency of Changing Intravenous Administration Sets: Is it safe to prolong use be yond 72 
hours? Infection Control Hosp Epidemiol. 2001 Mar;22 (3):136 -39 
3 Hadaway LC. Reopen the pipeline for IV therapy. Nursing. 2005;35(8):54 -61 4  
4 Data on file. Baxter Healthcare Incorporated. 5 
5 Immune globulins and thrombotic adverse events as recorded in a large administrative database in 2008 through 2010. Gregory W  GW 
Daniel, Mikhail M Menis, Gayathri G Sridhar, Dorothy D Scott, Anna E AE Wallace, Mikhail V MV Ovanesov, Basil B Golding, Stev en A SA 
Anderson, Jay J Epstein, David D Martin, Robert R Ball, and Hector S HS Izurieta Transfusion 52(10):2113 -21 (2012) PMID 22448967 * 
Infection and occlusion rates were monitored four months before (June - Sept. 2011) and four months after (Nov. - Feb. 2012) ONE -LINK 
connector implementation.  
*Infections were recorded per one thousand catheter days. Catheter occlusions were meas ured by extracting data from pharmacy issuing tPA. 
Catheter occlusions tracked four months prior to the ONE -LINK connector implementation showed an average rate of 5.47 occlusions 
requiring tPA/1,000 catheter days. Catheter occlusions tracked four months p ost ONE -LINK connector implementation showed an average 
rate of 4.04 occlusions requiring tPA/1,000 catheter days. 
Product Integrity  
Counterfeit and/or adulterated medical products pose growing risks to patient safety worldwide. Maintaining product integr ity is a 
complex and multifaceted challenge, encompassing an array of supply chain, product design and packaging, and risk management 
strategies. 
Baxter launched a formal, global product integrity program in 2008 to safeguard the company’s products from th e threat of 
counterfeiting or adulteration. The company’s diverse product portfolio is manufactured in 27 countries and sold in more than  100 
countries globally, and ranges in complexity from basic intravenous solutions to highly -specialized biologic deriv ed therapies. Baxter’s 
product integrity measures take into account the differing levels of complexity and risk associated with individual products and 
markets.  
The company has conducted a series of risk assessments, examining economic incentives, supply chain and product complexity, and 
other factors that may contribute to this issue. Based on that analysis, Baxter prioritized certain product lines and geograp hies for 
piloting and implementing various product authentication and security measures.  
Risk Assessment and Ongoing Monitoring  
Economic realities, manufacturing processes and supply chain dynamics vary considerably by product and market. Accordingly, t he risk 
profile associated with a particular product can present distinct challenges. Baxter has con ducted an extensive review of its product 
portfolio and geographic presence to assess the level of risk associated with individual products by market. The highest prio rity 
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/product -integrity.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/research -development -design/index.html  
© Copyright 2013 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved         9 products and markets were earmarked for initial implementation of various product in tegrity measures, including multiple layers of 
product packaging features and serialization using GS1 standards, the most widely used supply chain standards system in the w orld. 
The GS1 information standards organization is dedicated to the design and impl ementation of global standards and solutions to 
improve the efficiency and visibility of supply and demand chains globally and across sectors.  
Because changing economics, shifting political climates, new technologies and other world events can impact risk levels, the risk 
assessment process must be dynamic and informed by ongoing monitoring and information sharing among law enforcement and 
regulatory officials and industry players. In addition to these broader trends, Baxter monitors for patterns or anomali es within its own 
pharmacovigilance, product complaint reporting and customer order systems to spot and investigate potential events or product  issues 
that may have resulted from or suggest adulteration or wrong -doing.  
Supply Chain Measures  
Maintaining a s ecure supply chain, all the way from Baxter to the end user of the product, is essential to ensuring product integrity. 
Direct selling and sole source agreements are one way the company can retain control and/or visibility of the product for muc h of its 
route. Baxter regularly monitors customer purchasing data and trends and has terminated or changed customer relationships after  
detecting actions that jeopardize supply chain integrity (e.g. resale of product, unexplained spikes or changes in ordering b ehavi or that 
would suggest diversion). Baxter’s sales contracts include restrictions that support supply chain transparency and control, w hich may 
include restrictions or requirements related to the destruction of product packaging in some markets.  
Additionally , the company was an early adopter of GS1 standards including the Global Trade Item Number (GTIN). A GTIN is a unique 
identification number tagged to a product that provides the link between the item and the information pertaining to it. GS1 standards are 
used to uniquely distinguish all products, trade items, logistic units, locations, assets, and relationships in the supply ch ain— from 
manufacturer to consumers. Baxter believes that global adoption of GS1 standards will facilitate greater use technologies that can help 
ensure that products are moved correctly and efficiently throughout the supply chain. Ultimately, adoption of these standards  can help 
enable healthcare professionals to verify they are administering the right product to the right patient at the right time.  
Collaboration with Officials and Industry Partners  
Baxter collaborates with regulatory and public health officials and industry experts on an ongoing basis to share intelligenc e, insights 
and experience regarding the integrity of products a nd supply chain. Groups such as GS1, Parenteral Drug Association and Rx360 
have facilitated exchange of industry expertise and collaboration with regulatory authorities to develop and raise standards,  drive 
voluntary adoption of new processes and technolog ies, and implement new measures to advance product integrity and protect patients 
and clinicians.  
Product Packaging and Design 
Over the last several years, Baxter has implemented several enhancements to product and container design and labeling to enab le and 
expand product authentication and the ability to identify tampering. These measures may include multiple levels of closure an d 
packaging, elaborate closure systems and the use of unique materials. Due to the openness of global trade and the increasing  
sophistication of counterfeiters, companies must vary their approaches and continue to evolve specific technologies or materi als used.  
Preventing and overcoming the many threats to product integrity that exist today and will arise in the future requires a  comprehensive 
approach that incorporates many elements. Industry -wide, global adoption of GS1 standards are important building blocks in securing 
the supply chain. Baxter looks forward to expanding its implementation of the GS1 standards, furthering its p roduct integrity efforts and 
driving greater security and efficiency in the delivery of our products to healthcare providers and patients around the world .
R&D and Design  
The research and development and design stages offer unique opportunities to shape a product's sustainability performance across the 
life cycle. To address environmental, health and safety issues such as materials selection, energy use, and features that aff ect 
recyclability, Baxter includes Product Sustainability Review during the early stages of the product development process.  
Baxter also has policies and programs to address a range of bioethics issue s, from Animal Welfare  and Clinical Trials  to genetically 
modified organisms and the cloning and use of human embryos. The company's Bioethics Policy  includes Baxter's Bioethics Gu iding 
Principles that address topics such as product safety and efficacy, stakeholder concerns, risk -benefit analysis, legal and regulatory 
compliance, vendor conformance to Baxter's standards, clinical trials, animal welfare and biodiversity. The company' s senior leadership 
considers these principles, in addition to the advice of scientific and ethical advisors, to determine whether to proceed in research 	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/research -development -design/product -sustainability -review.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/research -development -design/animal -welfare.html  
© Copyright 2013 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved         10 requiring consideration of bioethical issues. To be justified, the potential benefits to individual su bjects and society must equal or 
exceed possible risks. For more information, see Baxter's Bioethics Position Statements . 
Bureau Veritas has provided assurance on the content on this page  
Product Sustainab ility Review  
Baxter recognizes the essential role that product design has in determining the environmental, health and safety (EHS) perfor mance of 
products, from materials extraction through end -of-life. Reflecting this, the company includes Product Sustai nability Review (PSR) 
during the early stages of the product development process. This allows Baxter to fully consider and address EHS factors such  as 
materials selection, energy use and features that affect recyclability.  
As part of the process, an initia l screen at the product concept phase reveals high- level sustainability risks and opportunities in areas 
such as regulations and customer and other stakeholder requirements (see graphic). Later in the process, a comprehensive revi ew 
identifies improvement opportunities across the life cycle. This includes life cycle assessment -related computer modeling of a proposed 
product, and may involve comparison to existing products. Designers use this assessment to inform material choices and evalua te 
product end- of-life options and other factors. Baxter uses these results to confirm product feasibility, help establish product 
requirements and minimize potential product impacts to human health and the environment.  
PSR is focused on medical devices, ranging from 
intravenous solution containers to dialysis machines, 
reflecting the greater potential environmental impact of 
these compared to other Baxter products. Since 2005, 
Baxter has used PSR to evaluate all new medical devices 
reaching the concept stage of development  (more than 
15 products so far), and currently has several devices 
under review. PSR has yielded positive results, and 
several reviews have influenced materials selection.  
PSR also provides a process to address compliance 
considerations for existing and up coming product -
stewardship regulations, and Baxter periodically updates 
the PSR toxic chemicals screen to reflect changes in 
legislation and other factors. This helps the company 
meet growing customer demands to limit these 
substances and prepare for poten tial chemical 
restrictions under the REACH Directive. Through the PSR 
process, materials requirements are documented in the 
product design history file. See Mater ials Use  and Case 
Study: Materials Restrictions  for more information about 
Baxter’s approach related to product materials.  
Life Cycle Assessment  
Supplementing PSR, Baxter also uses life cycle 
assessment (LCA) to evaluate the environmental 
performance of its products and determine ways to reduce environmental footprint. This may include decreasing the presence of  
chemicals of concern and reducing life cycle water or energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions and waste generation.  
Examples during recent years include the following:  
• During 2011, Baxter used LCA to inform the development of its next -generation home hemodialysis system.  
• In 2010 , Baxter undertook a streamlined LCA that compared two generations of dialyzer products1 to evaluate how material 
changes affect environmental performance. The company’s family of XENIUM+ dialyzers is 13- 22% lighter than earlier versions, 
which offers the potential for reduced fuel consumption in shipping and biohazard waste removal. XENIUM+ dialyzers also use 
approximately one -fourth less cardboard in their packaging. Also, all materials used in XENIUM+ are free of bisphenol -A. In 2011, 
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/research -development -design/product -sustainability -review.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/research -development -design/animal -welfare.html  
© Copyright 2013 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved         11 the product received certification from the Carbon Trust Footprinting Certification Company, the second medical product to receive 
this certification (FLEXBUMIN was the first). See Case Study: FLEXBUMIN Life Cycle Assessment . 
Baxter is pursuing LCAs of several additional products during 2013.  
1Dialyzers are filters used during hemodialysis to eliminate waste products from the blood of people with end -stage kidney dise ase 
Animal Welfare  
Baxter supports the conscientious use of animals in research only when no other acceptable scientific alternative exists to d emonstrate 
the safety and effectiveness of the company's life saving and sustaining products and therapies. Baxt er believes that it has an ethical 
responsibility to ensure the well being and humane care of animals it uses in product development and testing. In the substan tial 
majority of cases where Baxter uses animal testing, it is required by health authorities t o do so.  
Consistent with Baxter's Bioethics Position Statement , the company is committed to using and developing alternative protocols, 
methodologies and models which reduce or replace the use of animals. Baxter also works to refine current test systems to improve 
animal welfare while ensuring sound data. For decades, the company has supported pre -clinical testing involving humane animal use 
that complies with all relevant loc al, national and transnational laws and regulations (as verified by regular inspections by the respective 
authorities/agencies) as well as additional voluntary guidelines . 
Veterinary professionals with specialty training operate Baxter's research animal facilities, which are overseen by Animal Ca re and Use 
Committees as well as local authorities. These Animal Care and U se Committees review research and testing protocols to ensure that 
they are appropriately designed, that the information derived is essential and full consideration for is given to animal welf are. Baxter's 
animal research facilities are fully accredited by  the Association for the Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care 
International (AAALAC), which evaluates organizations that use animals in research, teaching or testing. In the United States , the 
company's facilities are registered and inspe cted regularly by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). Outside the United States, 
Baxter's animal facilities and programs are regularly inspected by relevant government agencies and comply with all applicabl e laws 
and regulations.  
All animals used wi thin Baxter’s research facilities are from sources that Baxter's veterinary professionals select carefully and monitor 
regularly. Contract research organizations that Baxter uses to assess the safety of its medical products must follow similar animal care 
and welfare standards, and are reviewed as part of Baxter's overall quality and regulatory compliance program.  
Baxter's Global Animal Welfare Committee 
Baxter's Global Animal Welfare Committee (GAWC) is composed of internal veterinary professionals and ani mal scientists whose goals 
are to enhance current programs and to identify and develop new opportunities to optimize animal welfare. The committee overs ees 
standards of animal welfare across Baxter's global operations and contract research organizations in cluding academic institutions.  
The GAWC focuses on:  
• Further developing and implementing programs that will advance the 3Rs (replace, reduce and refine), and other animal use 
initiatives;  
• Encouraging the identification, investigation and validation of alte rnative test methods when opportunities exist and regulations 
permit;  
• Setting universal standards of animal care and welfare across all Baxter animal research sites and external collaborators;  
• Reviewing Baxter’s animal use, animal welfare programs, and rel ated policies and standards regularly; and  
• Updating internal animal welfare education and training programs.  
The committee provides ongoing assessment and support of Baxter's animal testing programs to harmonize processes and tools 
globally. The committee' s recommendations are guided by the Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care 
International's system of program accreditation. To help ensure Baxter maintains the highest standards practice, committee me mbers 
participate in lea ding professional organizations where they receive continuing education and share best practices. Examples include:  
United States  
• Academy of Surgical Research  
• American Association for Laboratory Animal Science  
• American College of Laboratory Animal Medicine  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/research -development -design/animal -welfare.html  
© Copyright 2013 Baxter Inte rnational Inc. All Rights Reserved         12 • American Society of Laboratory Animal Practitioners  
• Council on Research for American Veterinary Medical Association  
Europe  
• The European Partnership for Alternative Approaches to Animal Testing  
• Society for Laboratory Animal Science;  
• Federation of European Laboratory Animal Science Associations  
International  
• The Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International  
• The International Association of Bioethics  
• International Consortium for Innovation and Quality in Pharmaceutical D evelopment  
In 2012, Baxter was a forming member of the International Consortium for Innovation and Quality (IQ) in Pharmaceutical Develo pment 
and was involved in the establishment of the Reduction, Refinement, and Replacement Leadership Group (3Rs LG). The  Leadership 
Group is an association of senior veterinarians and 3Rs specialists from IQ member companies that meet on a regular basis to review 
and discuss common scientific and regulatory issues and topics surrounding the use of animals.  
Replace, Reduce a nd Refine  
Baxter is committed to enhancing animal welfare through the 3Rs - replacement, reduction and refinement. The company applies a 
range of innovations in this area, including those as noted in the lists below.  
Replacement 
Baxter implements new techn ologies and processes to substitute animal with non -animal tests.  
• For both new product development and established products, Baxter is replacing animal safety testing with cell -based alternative in 
vitro1 methods where regulations will allow. In vitro test  systems are being validated and registered, which will substantially reduce 
the use of animals for in- process and final product quality release tests. 
• Building upon its expertise in developing cell -based methods of vaccine production, Baxter is using its proprietary cell line system 
with next -generation production methods which do not require large quantities of fertilized chicken eggs.  
• When permitted, Baxter uses cell -based tests to determine the antibody content for specific antibody -based products. For example, 
for its liquid immune globulin intravenous (IGIV) products that help people with compromised immune systems fight disease, Ba xter 
has replaced animal -based potency testing with a cell -based test, recently approved in the United States.  
• Baxter uses  thromboelastography (a non -animal, in -vitro test to assess blood clotting) to assess how quickly clots form on new 
products designed to stop bleeding. This screening test helps to minimize the number of animals needed for efficacy studies.  
Reduction 
When Baxter is required to conduct animal testing, researchers use enhanced data collection and analysis methods to reduce overall  
animal use.  
• In 2012, Baxter increased the amount of information collected per study by combining study activities, for example, so  that fewer 
animals were used overall.  
• Baxter participates in the Extractables and Leachables Safety Information Exchange and utilizes other databases of test metho ds 
to share toxicity data to minimize the use of animals.  
• In 2011, Baxter further reduced th e number of animals used in quality testing of certain biotherapeutic drugs and vaccines.  
• In 2011, Baxter increased the amount of information collected per animal that reduced the number of animals necessary to fulf ill 
specific regulatory requirements.  
• When feasible, Baxter uses automated blood sampling techniques and enhanced analytics to ensure high -quality samples every 
time which reduces animal procedures per study and related animal stress.  
• Baxter uses non -invasive, state -of-the-art technologies such  as CT scans, fluorescent imaging, advanced ultrasound and 
fluoroscopy to decrease the need for invasive testing.  
• As new testing methods become available, methods must be validated and approved in cooperation with government regulators 
prior to medical use  of the product. Baxter adopts new, approved methods, applies new testing models and thereby reduces animal 
testing wherever possible. For example, Baxter is implementing strategies to reduce intermediate test steps using the rabbit 
pyrogen (fever -producin g) test, and when possible combines lot runs to minimize the use of control test animals used in a number 
of product safety and potency tests.
 	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/research -development -design/animal -welfare.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/research -development -design/cl inical- trials.html  
© Copyright 2013 Baxter Inte rnational Inc. All Rights Reserved         13 • Baxter uses a combination of animal based toxicology, pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and local irritation tests t o minimize 
animal use, where possible.  
Refinement 
Baxter researchers work closely with other scientists and industry organizations to share best practices and demonstrate cont inual 
improvement. The company also supports organizations that aim to reduce th e need for animal tes ting and promote animal welfar e.
• Baxter supports the American Association for Laboratory Animal Science and the American College of Laboratory Animal Medicine  
to investigate alternatives and refinements to laboratory animal use.  
• The co mpany invests in enhanced animal housing to improve comfort and reduce stress.  
• Baxter continues to adopt or advance in -vitro techniques to test the efficacy of its products that help stop bleeding in patients in life -
threatening situations.  
• When possible, the company uses positive reinforcement to condition animals used in studies to enable administration of test 
materials and collection of blood samples without the use of physical restraint or anesthetics, minimizing stress and improvi ng data 
quality.  
• Baxter evaluates and ensures consistently high standards for all animal housing methods and cage -level enrichments.  
• Baxter is exploring using antibody levels in the blood of vaccinated animals as a surrogate marker to evaluate viral -based vaccine 
potency, inst ead of measuring the ability to resist infection with a live virus, thereby avoiding the illness stage of the test.  
• Baxter adopted technology with greater detection and quantification of biological parameters to reduce the frequency and volu me of 
samples t aken from animals.  
Baxter Applies Voluntary Animal Welfare Guidelines 
Baxter complies with relevant animal welfare regulations and guidelines:  
United States  
• U.S. Animal Welfare Act Standards ; and  
• The Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals  
Europe  
• European Treaty Series No. 123 (ETS123) European Convention for the Protection of Vertebrate Animals Used for Experimental 
and Other Scientific Purposes ; and  
• European Directive 86/609/EEC on the protection of animals used for experimental and other scientific purposes, which will be 
replaced by Directive 2010/63/EU as of January 1, 2013. 
International  
• World Health Organization Council for International Organizations of Medical Sciences International Guiding Principles for 
Biomedical Research Involving Animals  
• Association for the Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International  
• National Research Council: Guide for the Care and Use of La boratory Animals  (revised 2011 version); and  
• American National Standards Institute/Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation/International Organization f or 
Standardization 10993- 2 Biological Evaluation of Medical Devices - Part 2: Animal welfare requirements . 
1In-vitro tests are performed on individual cells in a lab environment versus in a living organism  
Clinical Tri als 
Clinical trials play an essential role in the development of new medical products and are legally required for the majority o f Baxter 
products. The company protects the safety, well -being and privacy of clinical trial participants, as well as the compl eteness and integrity 
of data obtained from these studies. Baxter is committed to sharing results from its clinical trials with the scientific and medical 
communities and the broader public via publications in peer -reviewed journals, presentations at scien tific and medical conferences, and 
postings on U.S. Food and Drug Administration or European Medicines Agency -authorized public repositories. The company's Clinical 
Trials Policy defines the requirements for clinical trials, studies and investigations invo lving human subjects that use investigational 
and/or marketed medicinal products and/or medical devices. The policy applies to all Baxter -sponsored studies worldwide.  
Baxter adheres to standards including, but not limited to, those found in the following:  
• The International Conference on Harmonization Guidelines for Industry Governing Good Clinical Practice , Good Laboratory 
Practices, and Good Manufacturing Practices;  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/research -development -design/cl inical- trials.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/materials -use.html  
© Copyright 2013 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved         14 • European Union Directive 2001/20/EC  and U.S. Code of Federal Regulations Part 812  on medical devices;  
• Principles that have their origin in the Declaration of Helsinki ; 
• Applicable privacy and data  protection standards and regulations such as the U.S. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability 
Act regulations and other co untry -specific requirements; and
• The laws and regulations of the applicable country.  
Clinical trials at Baxter require the pr ior written approval by an Independent Ethics Committee/Institutional Review Board. Study 
subjects must provide informed written consent before any study -related activities or assessments occur.  
For any clinical trial that prospectively assigns human subje cts to intervention and comparison groups to study the cause -and-effect 
relationship between a medical intervention and a health outcome, Baxter registers the trial at www.clinicaltrials.gov . 
 
Bureau Veritas has provided assurance on the content on this page  
Materi als Use  
Customers, governments and other stakeholders are increasingly focused on the materials and chemical substances used in produ cts 
and packaging. With regard to medical products, stakeholders are especially focused on health and safety and environmen tal impacts, 
especially at product end- of-life. In some countries, legislation restricts the use of specific substances in products. Customers are also 
interested in which materials are recyclable, such as in packaging.  
Baxter carefully considers the poten tial impacts of the materials it uses in its products and packaging, and takes a disciplined approach 
to identifying materials for possible restriction. The company focuses on the amount as well as the types of materials used, working to 
eliminate hazardou s substances wherever possible. For its electronic products, Baxter also works to maximize product service life, 
reuse and recycling as appropriate. This d ecreases the demand for virgin materials to produce new products.  
In 2012, Baxter purchased more than 215,000 metric tons of major commodities for use in its products and packaging, in additi on to 
pre-manufactured components (see Major Materials Purchased for Manufacturing ). The company continues working to improve the 
efficiency of its materials use. Baxter implement ed projects that reduced total packaging by 850 metric tons in 2012, on an annualized 
basis1 (see Packaging for details). Because plastic scrap from manufacturing is  Baxter's largest waste stream, generating roughly one -
third of the company's non- hazardous waste, reducing plastic waste and increasing recycling is another key focus (see Waste  for 
details).  
Product Design  
Baxter's research and development and manufacturing operations work with environmental, health and safety (EHS) specialists t o 
ensure that new products meet robust environmental design pr inciples, comply with environmental regulations and satisfy customer 
requirements. As part of the company's product development process, Baxter applies a Product Sustainability Review (PSR) to a ll new 
medical devices, assessing EHS impacts across the produ ct life cycle, including those related to materials selection and use. For 
example, new electrical and electronic devices under development are designed to meet the European Union's Restriction on 
Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Directive guidelines wherever t hey are sold worldwide. All devices are screened for the presence of 
chemicals from the REACH (Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals) Regulation list of "Substa nces of 
Very High Concern" (SVHCs) and are considered for elim ination.  
Supplementing PSR, Baxter also uses formal life cycle assessment to evaluate the environmental performance of its products an d 
determine ways to reduce their environmental footprints. This may include decreasing the presence of chemicals of concer n and 
reducing life cycle water or energy consumption, carbon footprint and waste generation. See Product Sustainabili ty Review  for more 
detail.  
Reporting Material Use 
Customers and governmental regulations increasingly require companies to disclose information about materials and chemical 
substances used in products and manufacturing. However, effectively tracking and r eporting this data is complex given the number and 
evolution of these standards, and since a product may contain components from numerous suppliers worldwide.   
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/materials -use.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/ manufacturing.html  
© Copyright 2013 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved         15 To better meet this challenge, Baxter is implementing a global project to determine and record in  one resource the material chemical 
content of all substances and parts purchased for use in Baxter's products. The project also seeks to better understand what,  if any, key 
chemicals of concern are present and to meet global regulations, such as the RoHS Directive and REACH Regulation (see Case Study: 
Materials Restrictions ). To date, the company has gathered information from suppliers for about 44 percent of its product components 
(out of a total of tens of thousands of parts overall). Through this process, Baxter has identified the presence of SVHCs in some 
components and improved its understanding of which suppliers and components may pos e a higher risk in this regard.
The next phase of the project, beginning in 2013, will target an expanded list of components and the substances included in t he initial 
phase, as well as additional SVHC’s from the REACH Directive list, as it expands. In add ition to materials restricted by regulations, the 
company is also gathering information about substances such as bisphenol -A (BPA) and latex, which are of interest to some 
customers.  
As Baxter receives information from a larger percentage of its suppliers covering a higher proportion of components used in its 
products, the company anticipates that the quality of the data collected will continue to improve. Nonetheless, ensuring comp liance will 
require ongoing expansion of supplier engagement, working with n ew suppliers, and potentially modifying product designs.  
Additionally, the Dodd -Frank Act requires companies to file annual reports with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission 
beginning May 31, 2014, indicating if their products contain tantalum, tin,  tungsten or gold originating from the Democratic Republic of 
Congo or adjoining countries (known as “conflict minerals”). Baxter has established an internal team that is working with its suppliers to 
ensure compliance with these regulations.  
Materials Inn ovations 
To meet the preferences of some customers and address drug compatibility issues in specific clinical applications, Baxter has  invested 
and continues to allocate significant resources to develop a variety of materials that meet the unique and evolv ing technical, design, 
regulatory, clinical and commercial requirements of individual product lines and markets. The company’s research team, headed  by 
world -leading experts in plastics technology, considers the distinct characteristics of the solutions to  be held in the containers, the 
performance characteristics required, the scientific data supporting safe use, regulatory requirements, environmental impact,  and other 
aspects.  
The company now offers a portfolio of more than 300 intravenous medications, pa renteral nutrition solutions, injectable drugs, 
biopharmaceuticals, IV sets and access devices and other products that use or are contained in non -DEHP [di -(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate] 
or non -PVC materials. See Baxter's position statement  on PVC in medical products.  
Baxter will continue its science -based approach toward the development and adoption of materials used in its products.  
Broader Impacts  
Baxter recognizes the interr elationship between materials choices and other environmental issues. The company estimates that in 2012 
the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in Baxter's supply chain attributable to Baxter's business equaled 1,072,000 metric tons c arbon 
dioxide equivalent ( CO 2e), 23.0% of Baxter's total GHG emissions footprint. This included raw materials extraction and processing as 
well as other activities (see Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Climate Change for more detail). These numbers do not include GHG 
emissions related to product transport (see Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Climate Change  for more detail).  
1These savings represent the total savings attributable to identified projects across the company, counted only for the first year the packaging 
innovation is implemented.  
Manufacturing  
Baxter manufactures its products at more than 50 facilities in 27 countries worldwide. The comp any has extensive environmental, 
health and safety (EHS) programs to minimize environmental impacts and ensure employee safety.  
Baxter generally requires third -party certification to the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001 Environmen tal 
Management System Standard for the company's manufacturing and research and development sites, and distribution sites with a 
capacity of at least 10,000 filled pallets or a workforce of 100 or more people. Sites that have achieved third -party ISO 14001  
certification generally also pursue third -party Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001 certification, which 
helps improve a facility's health and safety programs. As of year -end 2012, 68 Baxter locations have met the requirements o f ISO 
14001 and are covered by Baxter's group certificate, and 57 company locations were certified to OHSAS 18001. See EHS Management 
Systems and Certifications  for detail.   
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/ manufacturing.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/packaging.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/product -use.html  
© Copyright 2013 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved         16 In 2012, Baxter continued to improve its EHS performance across its facilities globally, including in manufacturing. See Environment, 
Health and Safety  for more detail .
Baxter also influences its suppliers' manufacturing and other operational practices through the company's Global Supplier Sus tainability 
Program as well as its Supplier Quality Standard an d Ethics and Compliance Standards for Baxter Suppliers. See Supply Chain  for 
more detail about Baxter's activities in this area.  
Bureau Veritas has provided assurance on the content on this page  
Packaging  
Baxter works to decrease the environmenta l impact of packaging by reducing the amount used and substituting for environmentally -
preferable materials. The company implemented projects in 2012 that reduced total packaging on an annualized basis by 850 met ric 
tons. Total annualized savings since 200 7 equals 5,150 metric tons, exceeding Baxter’s goal to eliminate 5,000 metric tons of 
packaging material from products sent to customers by 2015.1 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa  
In Tunis, Tunisia, Baxter installed machinery with new pouch size molds that allowed the company to reduce the size of the outer plastic 
pouch by 20 -40%, depending on the product’s size, and then replace an inner plastic pouch with a paper band. The smaller size of the 
outer pouch allows Baxter to fit the same quantity of products into a smaller box. Using the new machinery, the company can also print 
product labels directly onto the packaging instead of printing a label separately and adhering it to the product.  
In Ireland, Baxter designed a renal pack unit that reduces the waste g enerated by dialysis treatment centers and hospitals across the 
country. All materials and consumables are packed together at the Baxter facility in patient specific, bar -coded treatment packs. This 
reduces corrugated box use as well as customer storage ne eds. In 2012, Baxter received the EnviroCom Award for Best Example of 
Waste Prevention for the project.  
In Kista, Sweden, Baxter implemented a project to reduce the packaging material used to distribute products with specific tem perature 
requirements. Chan ging to a cooling truck for transport eliminated the need for approximately 3 metric tons of Styrofoam packaging and 
saved more than $50,000 in 2012. In Marsa, Malta, Baxter implemented a project to reduce primary packaging material, top web of 
paper and bottom web of plastic, with savings of $20,000 and 5.6 metric tons of material in 2012.  
Latin America 
Baxter’s facility in Cali, Colombia, completed a project in 2012 to reduce the carton weight of its intravenous (IV) sets. Th e new design 
decreased corruga ted material use for six carton codes, saving approximately 32 metric tons of packaging on an annualized basis.  
United States  
Baxter’s facility in Mountain Home, Arkansas implemented several packaging reduction projects in 2012, including decreasing t he hi gh-
density polyethylene (HDPE) sheeting used to make a product’s overpouch by reducing the thickness of the sheeting. This saved  11 
metric tons of material and nearly $44,000 on an annualized basis.  
1This equals the total savings attributable to identified  projects across the company, counted only for the first year after the packaging 
innovation was implemented.  
 
Product Use  
Advertising and Promotion  
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and other governmental agencies worldwide regulate the advertis ing and promotion of 
pharmaceuticals, medical devices and biologics. Included in FDA's oversight are print and broadcast advertising, websites, pr ess 
releases, sales brochures, convention booths, and other promotional materials and activities.  
Baxter's Adv ertising and Promotion staff manage the company's compliance with promotional regulations companywide, reviewing 
marketing materials for accuracy and balance in terms of presentation of product risks and benefits. The company’s approach t akes into 
account regulations and standards which vary by region:   
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/product -use.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/product -end-of-life.html  
© Copyright 2013 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved         17 • United States - Baxter’s advertising and promotion standards for all business groups incorporate best industry practices and are 
reviewed rigorously for compliance with the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations.  
• Canada - Baxter’s advertising and promotion standards incorporate industry best practices as per Pharmaceutical Advertising 
Advisory Board (PAAB) guidelines and are reviewed for compliance to Health Canada regulations.
• Latin America - Baxter applies adverti sing and promotion standard review procedures to ensure compliance with local and regional 
marketing promotion codes and regulations.  
• Europe - Baxter ensures that marketing materials for distribution in the region comply with applicable laws and regulation s as well 
as with the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA) Code of Practice on the promotion of 
prescription- only medicines to, and interactions with, healthcare professionals. The c ompany’s procedures ensure review of 
marketing materials at the pan -European level, as well as at the country level for compliance with local codes of practice and 
national product licenses. Baxter also adheres to the EUCOMED UNAMEC Code  that covers medical devices.  
• Asia Pacific - Baxter uses an electronic approval system that enables the company to comply with advertising and promotion 
codes, regulations and internal standards in 15 countries.  
 
Compliance  
If a company fails to comply with advertising and promotion regulations in the United States, the FDA or the Department of Justice may 
initiate civil or criminal enforcement actions. Enforcement actions can range from an untitled letter (the least serious) or a warning  letter 
(an elevated action) up to a criminal indictment. In 2012 and 2011, no enforcement actions were initiated against Baxter by t he FDA.  
 2008  2009  2010 2011  2012  
Untitled Letters  1 0 0 0 0 
Warning Letters  0 1 1 0 0 
Comparable information is not com monly available outside the United States.  
See Priorities and Goals  for information about Baxter's progress against its goal to continue to champion internal and industrywide 
ethical sales and marketing practices.  
See Access to Healthcare  for information about Baxter’s approach to increasing access to healthcare globally.  
Bureau Veritas has provided assurance on the content on this page  
Product End -of-Life 
The responsible treatment of healthcare products after customer use is an increasingly important issue worldwide. Because the 
appropriate approach varies by type of product, Baxter has a range of initiatives. For example, some of the electronic medica l devices 
Baxter sells, such as renal automated peritoneal dialysis cyclers, are well suited to repair and refurbishment after the orig inal customer 
has finished using them (see below). Many of the company’s other products, such as intravenous (IV) bags, cannot be  reused due to 
regulatory, quality and safety reasons. However, they may be responsibly recycled to recover energy and materials for other u ses. 
Electronic Products  
In some countries, Baxter leases most of its electronic medical products to customers, whi ch helps ensure they will be returned to 
Baxter after a set period of time. As appropriate, the company repairs and refurbishes those products, which extends their us eful life 
and decreases the environmental impacts of product disposal and new product manu facture. 
At times, reuse is not feasible, and regulations in many countries worldwide promote responsible recycling. For example, the European 
Union (EU) Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) Directive requires companies to arrange for the take -back of electronic 
products at end -of-life to enable the recovery and recycling of product components and materials. This regulation impacts certain Baxter 
products in the EU such as dialysis machines, IV pumps and other electronic devices. In 2012, approx imately 100 metric tons of 
electronic products and batteries were recovered in the region on Baxter's behalf.  
During the year, regulators enacted a revision of the WEEE Directive that sets recovery and recycling targets for non -implantable, 
electronic medi cal devices sold in the EU. Those target rates, which can vary by country and apply to product categories as opposed to  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/product -end-of-life.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2012 -report/product -environment -performance.html  
© Copyright 2013 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved         18 individual producers, will increase over time. The updated Directive also establishes requirements related to transnational s hipments of  
used electronic products for manufacturers selling those products in the region.  
Baxter’s WEEE website  provides customers detailed information on WEEE and how to dispose of Baxter products in a ccordance with 
the Directive, in each of the European Union Member States.  
When customers return products to Baxter that contain batteries, or when Baxter repairs those products on- site, Baxter sends the 
batteries to a recycler when feasible, or otherwise provides for responsible disposal.  
Disposable Medical Waste  
Baxter has worked with customers, industry peers, and recycling and disposal vendors to facilitate the recycling and responsi ble 
treatment of disposable medical products. The company is a member o f the Healthcare Plastics Recycling Council (HPRC), an alliance 
of global healthcare companies focused on the recycling of plastic products in hospitals. Baxter was one of 11 companies invo lved with 
HPRC to develop the Design Guidelines for Optimal Hospital Plastics Recycling , primarily intended for product designers and users of 
disposable medical devices.  
Through an HPRC initiative, Baxter collaborated on a study with Kaiser Permanente Los Ange les Medical Center to conduct a value 
stream mapping of all waste generated at the hospital, including pre -patient disposable medical waste. The team used Lean principles 
to understand the critical processes that contribute to waste generation and to estab lish a materials and waste baseline. Based on this 
information, the group identified priority focus areas and plans for program design, implementation, measurement and reportin g. 
Baxter continues to seek other opportunities to partner with waste management  and recycling firms to test the economic and logistical 
feasibility of more efficient management of wastes generated from Baxter IV products. Possibilities include creating products  from 
recycled materials that can be reused in the medical supply chain, s uch as plastic pallets made from mixed IV bags or packaging.  
For e xample, Baxter partnered with the Vinyl Council of Australia (VCA) to launch the VCA’s PVC Recovery in Hospitals program in 
Toongabbie in early 2013. This initiative collects used PVC medica l products for recycling into new products, such as garden hoses. 
The organization initially introduced the program to hospitals in Sydney, and plans to roll it out countrywide.  
Global Audit Program  
Baxter’s global audit program covers all regulated or med ical waste recycling or disposal sites that the company uses for waste 
generated internally. As part of this program, before using a medical waste recycling or disposal vendor, trained Baxter audi tors assess 
the vendor for compliance with Baxter’s requirem ents. Repeat audits are then conducted at least once every four years. These audits 
examine all aspects of operations, including site history, regulatory compliance, financial conditions, insurance, and other factors. 
Baxter has audited and approved more t han 230 regulated or medical waste recycling or disposal sites through this program.  
Case Study: Engaging with Stakeholders on 
Product Environmental Performance
Product environmental performance is an issue of growing importance in the healthcare sector. Baxter works to 
understand customer needs in this area, and to reflect those in product design and communications when 
feasible. Due to the complexity of these issues, in some cases Baxter collaborates with other organizations to 
develop ways to improve pe rformance across the industry.  
Customer Environmental Requirements and Preferences  
Customers and group purchasing organizations in most countries in Europe as well as the United States (especially California)  
increasingly require information related to pro duct environmental performance in requests for proposal and consider that information in 
vendor selection. The two leading customer product sustainability issues are eliminating or decreasing materials of concern s uch as 
PVC, DEHP and mercury and reducing waste (packaging and disposables).  
Similarly, governments increasingly set environmental criteria for "greener" public procurement. For example, nearly all tend ers in the 
United Kingdom include Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) -related questions. Throu ghout Europe, EHS -related questions represent 
on average 5% of the total weighting of tenders that Baxter receives.  
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2012 -report/product -environment -performance.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/q uick-links/case -studies/2012 -report/materials- restrictions.html  
© Copyright 2013 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved         19 Baxter reflects these requirements and preferences in product design through its Product Sustainability Review process. The company 
responds to targeted customer requests and engages with customers as appropriate to share information about products. Baxter  also 
highlights product environmental performance for two products using the Carbon Trust certification:  
• Baxter has continued the global marketing roll -out of FLEXBUMIN [Albumin (Human)], which is the world's first medical product to 
receive Carbon Trust  certification (in 2009, re -certified in early 2012).  
• In 2011, Baxter also received Carbon Trust certification for the company's new family of XENIUM+ synthetic dialyzers.  
In 2013, Baxter plans to highlight the enhanced environmental performance of an addi tional new product at launch.  
To address specific questions that customers might have about materials, Baxter also provides access to a searchable database  of 
Safety Data Sheets  for all relevant products, in more than 25 languages.  
Industry Collaboration 
Reflecting the sizable environmental impacts of the healthcare sector, Baxter promotes improved performance across the indust ry. In 
2009, the UK National Health S ervice (NHS) Sustainable Development Unit (SDU) conducted a carbon footprinting exercise and 
determined that the procurement of goods and services from the healthcare supply chain accounted for 65% of the total greenho use 
gas (GHG) emissions of NHS England , with almost half attributable to pharmaceutical products and medical devices.  
To encourage sound disclosure in this area, Baxter recently collaborated with the UK NHS SDU, Environmental Resources 
Management (ERM), and other industry representatives to create the first ever Pharmaceutical and Medical Device Sector Guidance for 
Product Life Cycle Accounting . Built u pon the GHG Protocol Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard  methodology, the 
document provides sector -specific guidance to enable consistent and comparable rep orting. The guidance publication was launched in 
late-2012.  
"If healthcare providers are to meet demanding climate change targets, it’s important that they gain a better understanding o f the 
greenhouse gas emissions associated with all parts of a health s ystem, and identify the carbon intensive "hotspots," said Sonia 
Roschnik from the NHS SDU. "I am confident that developing such guidance will help us to achieve this."  
Additionally, in 2013 Baxter joined Practice Greenhealth, a nonprofit membership organization founded on the principles of positive 
environmental stewardship and best practices by organizations in the healthcare community.  
Case Study: Materials Restrictions  
The European Union (EU) Restriction on Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Directive seeks to phase out the use of 
lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium and brominated flame retardants used in electronic products such 
as computers, televisions and mobile phones. This is principally  aimed at minimizing negative environmental 
impacts from these substances throughout the product life cycle, in particular at product end -of-life. 
Although exempt from the original Directive, medical devices will fall within the scope of the RoHS2 Directiv e 
beginning in July 2014. After that time, new medical devices that contain, subject to certain thresholds, the substances1 lis ted above 
cannot be placed on the EU market. To comply with the directive, manufacturers must provide documentation demonstratin g conformity 
of relevant products to the requirements. Furthermore, countries such as China, South Korea, Taiwan and some U.S. states such  as 
California have already enacted legislation similar to RoHS2. Baxter is implementing a global strategy to respond to these regulations 
worldwide, and requires that all new electrical and electronic equipment under development meet RoHS and RoHS2 Directive 
restrictions.  
Baxter is also working to ensure it meets the European Union's REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Auth orisation and Restriction of 
Chemicals) Regulation. Under the legislation, chemical suppliers, manufacturers or importers of more than one metric ton of a  chemical 
substance in a given year must register the substance with the European Chemical Agency. The  regulation expands significantly the 
number of substances that will require authorization for use, identifies "Substances of Very High Concern" that may face futu re 
restrictions, and requires companies to proactively inform customers about the presence2 o f those substances in products. Baxter has 
registered all required substances and preparations following the regulation.  
Baxter's cross -functional REACH team oversees the company's ongoing response to this regulation and explores further opportunities 
to eliminate hazardous substances. To keep informed of these sorts of trends, Baxter's global Environmental, Health and Safety (E HS) 
organization assesses existing, new and emerging environmental regulations to identify and prioritize critical business issue s, 
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2012 -report/materials- restrictions.html  
© Copyr ight 2013 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved         20 benchmarks Baxter’s performance against others in the industry, and helps the company develop positions and strategies aimed at 
improving its environmental performance  
See Materials Use  for more information.  
1As defined by the RoHS2 Directive, maximum concentrations allowed are 0.1% by weight of homogeneous material for all substances 
except for cadmium which is restricted to 0.01% by weigh t. 
2As defined by REACH Regulation, “presence” equals at least 0.1% of the total product mass.  Supply Chain   Bureau Veritas has provided assurance on the content on this page 
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/supply -chain/index.h tml 
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    2 
Supply Chain  
 
A company’s supply chain extends from producers of raw materials to end users of the company’s products. 
Given the size, scope and complexity of a company’s supply chain, especially for a large multinational 
organization like Baxter, supply chain focused s ustainability initiatives can have dramatic positive 
contributions to a company’s overall sustainability efforts. Companies are attempting to better understand and influence the origins of their products by tracking raw materials and part components throug hout the 
supply chain while also ensuring the highest level of anti -corruption standards are followed and that human 
rights are guaranteed at each step in the supply chain. For healthcare companies, maintaining a safe, secure 
and reliable supply chain is e ssential to ensure patient safety. Also, a significant amount of a company’s 
overall environmental footprint is represented by its supply chain, so collaborating with suppliers to improve their performance can collectively support the company’s overall per formance.  
Approximately 35,000 suppliers in more than 100 countries provide the goods, services and raw materials required by Baxter's 
operations worldwide. In 2012, Baxter's total supplier spending was approximately $6.2 billion. About 26% of this total spend was on 
"direct" supplies -  raw materials and components used in Baxter products. In general, Baxter buys most of its direct supplies from 
companies located near its manufacturing operations. All other supplies are considered "indirect" - goods and se rvices that support 
other aspects of the company's operations. 
Baxter is committed to building and driving a sustainable supply chain, one of the company’s nine sustainability priorities. Through its 
Global Supplier Sustainability Program, Baxter integrates sustainable practices into its procurement policies and procedures,  focusing 
on sustainable procurement , materials compliance , water security  and the C-TPAT (Customs -Trade Partnership Against Terrorism) 
program . 
Baxter conducts an annual survey of suppliers’ sustainability programs and recognizes positive supplier collaborations through 
Baxter’s e-Impact program . The company’s supplier standards  govern Baxter’s supplier relationships, and Baxter maintains a diverse 
supplier ba se that reflects the markets and communities in which the company operates. Baxter optimizes logistics in transporting 
product  and improves packaging to minimize related environmental impacts; and reduces the environmental impact of the company’s 
car sales fleet . Baxter also offers electronic product fulfillment options, such as ordering and invoicing, to streamline customer 
 Bureau Veritas has provided assurance on the content on this page 
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/supply -chain/sustainable -procurement.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    3 
transactions and reduce paper use and costs. More than 82% of order lines, excluding home patient orders, were handled 
electronically in the United States.  
Supplier Standards  
Baxter’s Global Supplier Sustainability Program builds on several sustainability -related standards that govern Baxter's relationships 
with suppliers. The company’s Supplier Quality Standard  and Ethics and Compliance Standards for Baxter Suppliers  provide a 
framework for consistent supplier evaluation and selection, and define policies and expectations for ethical behavior when doing  
business with Baxter. The company evaluates and approves suppliers before purchasing any materials, components, products or servic es. 
The Supplier Quality Standard addresses sustainability issues, including child labor, employment standards, waste and energy 
reduction, and ethics. Baxter's Ethics and Compliance Standards for Baxter Suppliers, available in 19 languages and included with 
supplier agreements, also covers child labor, as well as confidential information, intellectual property, gifts and entertain ment, anti -
corruption, conflicts of interest, trade compliance, fair employment opportunities, and environment, health and safet y (EHS).  
Building on these standards, Baxter does not support, encourage or endorse any form of forced labor or human trafficking and slavery 
in Baxter’s operations or supplier base. The company takes a number of steps  to ensure suppliers are operating in an ethical manner 
and not engaged with these practices.  
Baxter expects all suppliers to comply with these standards and expectations as well as all laws g overning purchasing, and may 
terminate agreements with suppliers that do not. To support these efforts, ethics training is mandatory for employees in Baxt er's 
Purchasing and Supplier Management (PSM) organization. All PSM employees that interact with suppl iers must take an online ethics 
and compliance course as well as a live training session conducted by Baxter's Ethics and Compliance organization. Baxter als o asks 
key suppliers to provide emergency response plans describing how they will continue to provi de vital supplies in the event of a 
catastrophe or other business interruption  
See Product Integrity  for information about GS1 standards. Also, read Baxter’s  statement  in response to the California Transparency 
in Supply Chains Act of 2010.  
U.S. Customs -Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C -TPAT) Program  
In 20 11, Baxter was recognized as a Tier III Partner in the U.S. Customs -Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C -TPAT) program. C -
TPAT is a joint U.S. government -business initiative that builds cooperative relationships to enhance U.S. border security, with a fo cus 
on strengthening security throughout the supply chain. As a C -TPAT participant since 2009, Baxter has committed to maintaining Tier 
III security criteria as well as ongoing enhancements to the security of its global supply chain.  
Tier III is the highest level an importer can achieve in the C -TPAT program. As of April 2013, only approximately 3% of the more than 
10,500 program participants had achieved this status. Baxter's internal C -TPAT steering committee remains committed to monitoring 
and enhancing its supply chain practices and implementing process improvements as needed. 	  
Sustainable Procurement  
Through its Global Supplier Sustainability Program, Baxter integrates sustainable practices into its procurement policies and  
practices, focusing on sustain able procurement, materials compliance , water security  and C-TPAT (Customs -Trade Partnership 
Against Terrorism) Program .  
Since 2009, Baxter has integrated 20 criteria into its purchasing procedur es to provide its procurement organization a framework to 
evaluate suppliers' sustainability initiatives. These criteria fall into five categories which align with the company’s susta inability efforts. 
Baxter also conducts an annual survey  of 100 select suppliers to evaluate their performance against these criteria.  
Baxter purchasing teams and individuals globally chose a performance goal for 2012 tie d to the company's sustainability initiatives, 
based on the unique needs of his or her country. For example, each manager in Baxter's corporate headquarters set a target re lated 
to submitting stories for the e -Impact program to encourage collaboration with  suppliers.  
RFPs and Supplier Agreements  
Baxter considers price, quality, environmental criteria and other factors when selecting and evaluating its suppliers, to red uce the 
company's environmental impact while maintaining continuity of supply and managing  costs. To support these efforts, Baxter  Bureau Veritas has provided assurance on the content on this page 
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/supply -chain/sustainable -procurement.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    4 
incorporates language related to sustainability in requests for proposal (RFP) and supplier contract templates to reiterate B axter's 
commitment to sustainability and assess each supplier's ability to support Baxter' s sustainability goals and conduct their business 
activities consistent with the company’s supplier standards. Sustainability related language is now included in these documen ts in 
Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Mexico, New Zealand and the United States . 
Baxter's updated RFPs in those countries ask suppliers to provide:  
• Their sustainability policy and mission statement; 
• A description of company sustainability initiatives and outcomes;  
• A list of sustainability- related awards received;  
• Disclosure of environmental violations and fines for the past three years;  
• Details on purchasing from diverse suppliers, particularly related to products and services in the RFP (as applicable); and  
• Information about other initiatives that would support Ba xter's sustainability goals.  
Baxter's standard supplier agreement requires U.S. -based suppliers to certify compliance with federal and state equal opportunity 
laws. Suppliers also commit to making good -faith efforts to consider small, minority -owned, women- owned, veteran -owned and other 
diverse suppliers when engaging their own suppliers. 
The agreement also encourages suppliers to support Baxter's sustainability initiatives by identifying for Baxter's use produc ts and/or 
services with reduced environmental impact. Baxter asks its suppliers to provide regular updates on their sustainability activities.  
Annual Supplier Sustainability Survey  
Baxter conducted its fourth annual survey of 100 select suppliers in 2012 to evaluate their performance against the compa ny’s 
sustainability criteria (see table). Baxter uses survey responses to learn more about suppliers’ sustainability programs and identify 
opportunities for best practice sharing and collaboration to improve the performance of both Baxter and its suppliers . Suppliers’ 
responses do not affect whether Baxter will continue to work with them.  
Baxter identifies suppliers to survey each year based on spend, the supplier’s importance to business continuity, and their c arbon 
footprint. In 2012, these suppliers repr esented approximately 17% of Baxter’s global supplier spend. This group includes suppliers 
from each of Baxter’s regions and all of its major commodity groups and purchasing categories. In 2012, 83% of invited suppli ers 
completed the survey.  
While Baxter k eeps the participant list similar for comparability year over year, the company adds or removes some suppliers from the 
survey due to changes in business needs, contractual requirements or other reasons. Changes in results from year to year may be due 
partly to this variation.  
Based on Baxter’s criteria, 51% of the 83 respondents in the 20 12 survey were rated "sustainable", compared t o 43% of 84 
respondents in 2011.
 
Baxter Annual Supplier Sustainability Survey Summary Results  
 % Sustainable*  
 2009 2010 2011 2012 
Environmental / Sustainability Program  
Example Criteria: Measures and reports environmental information  34%  30%  36%  40%  
Reductions in Carbon Footprint  
Example criteria: Has a goal and program to reduce GHG emissions   46%  61%  60%  66%  
Reduction in Natural Resources Use  
Example criteria: Has a goal and activities to reduce waste generation   61%  55%  63%  66%  
Enhanced Product Stewardship  
Example criteria: Uses a product stewardship / life cycle approach   24%  35%  46%  48%   Bureau Veritas has provided assurance on the content on this page 
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/supply -chain/sustainable -procurement.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/supply -chain/product -transport.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    5 
Protection of Human Rights  
Example criteria: Has ethical and legal employment practices for 
employees and suppliers  (added in 
2010)  88%  96%  90%  
*Suppliers are considered sustainable in a category when responding positively ("yes" or "in progress") to 90% of the questio ns in that category.  
Recognizing Supplier Sustainability Efforts Globally  
Since 2009, Baxter has documented and recognized supplie rs and Baxter employees for environmental initiatives through its e -Impact 
program. Baxter employees submit descriptions of current or planned projects to collaborate with suppliers and reduce Baxter’ s and 
the supplier’s environmental impacts. To recognize  successful projects, Baxter leaders award both the supplier and Baxter employees 
with an electronic certificate of appreciation.  
Baxter employees submitted more than 120 examples of supplier projects to reduce environmental impact in 2012. Of these, 43 
initiatives in 12 countries were successfully completed in 2012, with the combined benefits to Baxter and its suppliers summari zed 
below. Collectively, these 43 completed projects reduced greenhouse gas emissions by an estimated 18,000 metric tons of CO2e, 
which is equivalent to the amount of electricity used by 2,800 U.S. homes during a year or removing 4,100 cars from the road f or that 
same period of time.1 
Combined Results of e -Impact Projects   
 2010 2011 2012 
Project Ideas Submitted  5 107 120 
Projects Completed  5 41 43 
Combined Cost Savings * $231,000 $3,100,000 $4,100,000 
Combined CO2e Emissions Reduction  (metric 
tons)*  162  15,000  18,000 
*Metrics only include successfully completed projects completed in the year indicated  
For example, Baxter partnered with its outside manufacturer of intravenous (IV) poles. The IV poles were normally shipped 
unassembled to Baxter’s warehouse and then shipped to customers who manually assembled and disposed of the associated 
packaging. Baxter worked with its ma nufacturer to ship fully assembled poles, which made it easier for customers to use immediately 
after delivery. Each fully assembled stand uses approximately five pounds less of corrugate packaging compared to the unassem bled 
product in larger boxes. In ad dition, the manufacturer could fit almost double the number of assembled stands into a truck for delivery 
compared to unassembled ones. Baxter worked with the manufacturer to deliver the fully assembled IV poles directly to custome rs 
instead of first shipp ing to Baxter’s distribution center. As a result of these packaging and delivery changes, the initiative saved 
approximately 18,200 pounds of shipping weight and approximately 180 metric tons CO2e since March 2012.  
For additional information and examples of past projects recognized through Baxter’s e -Impact program, see past case studies.  
1 Figures calculated using the Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator from the United States Environmental Protection Agency: 
http://www.epa.gov/cleanenergy/energy -resources/calculator.html.  
Product Transport  
Baxter transports large amounts of raw materials and more than 100 million cases of finished products each year throughout th e 
company's global supply chain. In some instances, Baxter directly operates its product distribution  system. For example, the 
company manages its own private, as well as third party fleets, to transport its frozen therapies and to home deliver Renal p roducts. 
Baxter also distributes some of its other products in selected regions, such as Europe. In othe r cases, the company partners with 
third-party vendors and carriers.  
Baxter uses several approaches to decrease the environmental impact of product transport, particularly greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions, and measures its performance:  
• Intermodal Transport  Bureau Veritas has provided assurance on the content on this page 
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/supply -chain/product -transport.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    6 
• Capacity Utilization and T echnology Innovation  
• Pallet Programs  
• Environmentally Responsible Partnerships  
• Measuring Performance  
Intermodal Transport  
Different modes of transport - such as air,  ocean, river barges, trucks and rail - have varying levels of environmental impact. This is 
largely because they use different amounts of fuel per ton of product shipped. Given Baxter's current product mix and global reach, 
continuing to shift to intermod al transport, which combines multiple modes for a single shipment, offers the greatest opportunity for 
the company to decrease costs and reduce GHG emissions related to product transportation.  
Baxter continues to use intermodal transport in Europe and the  United States when possible to shift toward more energy -efficient 
modes. Shipping containers are moved from manufacturing plants by truck and then transferred to more efficient and cost -effective 
rail or barge transport for longer distances, and then shif ted back to truck for final delivery. This decreases overall costs and 
emissions.  
Annual GHG Emissions Reductions from Total Shipments Using Intermodal Transport in the United States  
 2009 2010 2011 2012 
Intermodal Loads  6,750 7,620 7,800 7,600 
Calculated Fuel Savings  
(liters)*  6,671,900 7,325,610 7,354,830 8,605,700 
Metric Tons of carbon dioxide 
equiva lent (CO 2e) Emissions Reduced  18,010 19,780 19,860 23,240 
*Calculated fuel savings is the difference between the total calculated fuel use  of intermodal shipments versus truck shipments on the same routes  
As part of the above effort, Baxter used intermodal transport for approximately 24% of its transport to replenish its U.S dis tribution 
network in 2012.  
Baxter also conducts route -by-route a nalysis in Europe to assess and implement possible shifts to intermodal transport. These 
initiatives covered approximately 53% of replenishments in Europe in 2012, with 7,100 short sea loads and nearly 2,000 rail l oads. 
Baxter also identifies opportunities  to ship product to customers from local manufacturing facilities when possible. For example, 
Baxter’s customers in Poland had previously received product from Baxter’s manufacturing facilities in Western Europe distrib uted 
through the company’s distribution facility in Belgium. In 2012, Baxter was able to make adjustments to manufacture and distribute 
certain product from its manufacturing facility in Poland to local customers, saving approximately 1,400 metric tons CO 2e as a result.  
Capacity Utilization and Technology Innovation 
Baxter also improves transport efficiencies by increasing capacity utilization. For example, use of double -deck trucks to replenish 
distribution centers across Europe has enabled Baxter to transport loads in two trucks that have h istorically required three. Baxter 
also works to ensure that trucks are at maximum load capacity, including through collaboration with business partners, reduci ng the 
number of trucks required. In Northampton, United Kingdom, Baxter worked with third -party logistics providers to utilize a highly 
aerodynamic teardrop- shaped truck design, which features a full- length curved roof with rounded corners that improve air flow and 
reduce drag.  
Pallet Programs  
Wooden pallets are used to consolidate cases of product s for transport and to move products within Baxter facilities. The company 
works to use pallets more efficiently to save materials and cost. In Europe, for example, pallet programs within and across B axter 
facilities, mainly in Spain and the United Kingdom , improved pallet utilization and enabled the company to reuse more than 58,000 
pallets in 2012, saving nearly $580,000. In Europe, Baxter also plans to recover pallets used between Baxter’s national distr ibution 
centers and the end customers in France and  Poland.   Bureau Veritas has provided assurance on the content on this page 
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/supply -chain/product -transport.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved    7 
In the United Kingdom, Baxter's Northampton distribution center uses "loadhogs" - reusable plastic caps that fit over pallets - as an 
alternative to shrink -wrap when shipping boxes of dialysis solutions to home patients.  
Environmentally Responsib le Partnerships  
Baxter is one of a select number of companies that participate in the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) SmartWay® 
program as both a Carrier Partner and a Shipper Partner. SmartWay is a partnership between the EPA and industry to re duce air 
pollution and GHG emissions through cleaner, more fuel efficient product transport.  
Baxter became a SmartWay Carrier Partner in 2009 with its own U.S. Renal truck fleet, and achieved the highest possible score of 
1.25, recognizing the company’s "outstanding" commitment to utilizing commercially available fuel -saving options and evaluating 
emerging technologies that help reduce i ts fleet’s environmental impact.  
Besides the company’s own Renal fleet, Baxter works with shipping carriers to deliver other products. In 2011, Baxter also be came a 
SmartWay Partner ship Shipper . Since 2009, the company requires all of its carriers in the United States to be SmartWay members.  
Please see Case Study: Decreasing Environmental Impact of Product Transportation  for additional examples of how Baxter has 
partnered with others in Canada, throughout Europe, and in the United States.  
Measuring Performance  
Baxter has been developing a global emissions measurement syst em to track GHG emissions from the company’s product transport 
worldwide, based on a United Parcel Service, Inc. (UPS) supply chain solutions model. This enables Baxter to capture data fro m 
product shipments made by truck, rail, air and ocean globally. The  model takes into account data from each of Baxter’s regions.  
In 2012, UPS partnered with The Carbon Neutral Company to calculate Baxter’s non -UPS transportation carbon emissions to allow 
for more complete and accurate combined analysis of transportation e missions worldwide. Baxter continues to work with UPS and 
The Carbon Neutral Company to refine the model. 
Baxter’s total GHG emissions globally for product transport were determined to be 427,500 CO 2e metric tons in 2012. Baxter plans to 
use the measuremen t system to analyze year -over-year performance and identify opportunities to improve.  
2012 Global Product Transport GHG Emissions by Mode  
Transport Mode  CO 2e Emissions (metric tons)  
Air 90,300  
Ocean  33,000 
Rail 11,900 
Truck  292,300 
2012 Global Product Transport GHG Emissions by Region*  
Region  CO 2e Emissions (metric tons)  
Asia-Pacific 50,400 
Europe, Middle East and Africa  143,400 
Latin America 46,400 
North America  187,300 
*Asia -Pacific region includes countries in Asia and Oceania; Latin America region includes countries in Latin America and Caribbean , 
and includes Mexico; North America region includes United States and Canada. 
  Bureau Veritas has provided assurance on the content on this page 
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/supply -chain/product -transport.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2012 -report/product -transport.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. A ll Rights Reserved    8 
Supplier Diversity  
Baxter works to develop m utually beneficial relationships with small and diverse suppliers, and strives to continue to increase the 
diversity of its supplier base. This is a key aspect of the company's broader commitments to a sustainable supply chain and inclusion 
and diversity . Baxter also uses its annual supplier sustainability survey  and contracting proce ss to assess the supplier diversity 
programs of its own suppliers.  
Baxter has sponsored the National Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC) for more than 20 years, and in 2006 joined th e 
NMSDC Health Care Industry Group. Baxter is also a corporate p artner of the Women’s Economic Development Organization. The 
company participates regularly in vendor fairs to promote supplier diversity, and maintains an online database  that enable s small and 
diverse businesses in the United States to share their capabilities with Baxter procurement representatives.  
Since 2008, Baxter has included supplier diversity information in its supplier agreement summary sheets approved by senior 
management. These checklists include questions such as: How many diverse suppliers were included in the selection process? What 
classification were those suppliers? Was the selected supplier diverse? If not, why?  
2012 Supplier Diversity Performance 
In 2012, Baxter spent approximately $366 million with small businesses in the United States and Puerto Rico, approximately 14 % of 
Baxter's total supplier spending of $2.7 billion in those markets. During the year, the company spent nearly $90 million with  women -
owned businesses and approximately $34 million with minority -owned firms in the United States and Puerto Rico. Veteran -owned, 
service -disabled veteran -owned, small disadvantaged and HUBZone -certified businesses represented approximately $7.8 million,  
$0.9 million, $3.9 million and $2.2 million of Baxter's spending, respectively.  
Baxter Supplier Diversity Spending (Dollars in Millions)*  
 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 
Small Businesses $457 $484 $491 $388 $366 
Women -Owned Businesses  88 80 97 87.5 90 
Minority -Owned Businesses  24 20 34 36 34 
  *United States and Puerto Rico. Fiscal year basis (October 1 through September 30 of the year noted).  Accounts payable data are sent to a third party, which 
categorizes spending. Other categories in total include veteran -owned, service -disabled veteran -owned, small disadvantaged and HUBZone -certified 
businesses. HUBZone is a United States Small Business A dministration (SBA) program for small companies that operate and employ people in Historically 
Underuti lized Business Zones (HUBZones)
Case Study: Decreasing Environmental  
Impact of Product Transportation  
Baxter transports large amounts of raw materials and more than 100 million cases of finished products 
throughout the company's global supply chain each year. As part of its commitment to decrease the 
environmental impact of product transportation, Baxter has developed innovative strategic partnerships with 
companies in various industries to create transportation synergies, save money and decrease greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.  
For example, Baxter has been co -loading transports between Belgium and Ireland since August 2012 with Do naldson Company, Inc., 
a global manufacturer of filtration systems, through the synchronization of shipments. By using fewer containers and higher c apacity 
utilization, the initiative reduces GHG emissions by approximately 14% per shipment while also reduc ing transportation costs for both 
companies.  
Since 2011, Baxter has been co -loading with another global healthcare company, UCB, on multiple destinations to Central and 
Eastern Europe. This helps both organizations increase the speed and frequency of medi cine delivery to patients, while reducing GHG 
emissions related to product transport by 30% and cost by 10% on average per shipment, depending on the destination and the 
potential for transport synchronization.  
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2012 -report/product -transport.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  In Canada, Baxter arranged a shipment optimi zation process with Mohawk Shared Services Inc. (MSSI), a healthcare procurement 
shared services organization. This has reduced transport and transfer costs, and decreased fuel use and GHG emissions by ship ping 
products directly from Baxter's manufacturing  facility to the MSSI warehouse. Previously, Baxter shipped products to an intermediary 
warehouse for processing before transport to the MSSI warehouse and customers.  
Baxter partners with FedEx Corporation (FedEx) in the United States to use its Healthcare  Shared Network to transport products with 
specific temperature requirements in select locations in the United States. This service provides Baxter a time -definite, temperature 
controlled, less -than-truckload delivery service designed for the pharmaceutica l and diagnostics industries, eliminating the need for 
special packaging materials previously used to maintain shipments at required temperatures. In 2012, Baxter used this service  to ship 
more than 2,400 orders, saving approximately 37,000 coolers, 128,00 0 gel packs and approximately 150 metric tons of packaging. 
These orders would have otherwise been shipped via air.  
Please also see Product Transport  for additional in itiatives.  
	  
	  
	  
	   	  Access to Healthcare  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/access -to-healthcare/index.html   
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/access -to-healthcare/advancing- public -health.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       2 Access to Healthcare  
 
Improving access to healthcare is a global challenge. The issue is especially challenging in developing 
countries,  where poor infrastructure, political instability, poverty, lack of education, restrictive regulatory 
environments, and inadequate availability and affordability of medical products can all limit access. Addressing 
this challenge requires cooperation among  governments, non- governmental organizations, corporations, 
medical professionals and others.  
Baxter works to improve access to healthcare globally through:  
• Advancing public health  
• Base of the pyramid initiatives  
• Product donations 
• The Baxter International Foundation awards and grants  
• Public policy efforts  
Advancing Public Health  
Baxter’s diverse portfolio is focused on t reatments that help save and sustain lives. As a global, diversified healthcare company, 
Baxter applies a unique combination of expertise in medical devices, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology to research and create  
products that advance patient care worldw ide. Through individual business units and corporate research and development (R&D), 
Baxter strives to provide new products as well as training and education to meet the needs of current and future patients. Ad ditionally, 
the company’s base of the pyramid initiative strives to better serve the needs of patients at the lowest end of the economic spectrum. 
Examples of Baxter’s latest efforts include . 
Improving Care for Hemophilia Patients  
As a leading manufacturer of hemophilia products, Baxter is committed t o improving patient treatment and care. The company also 
	  
http://www.sustainability.bax ter.com/access- to-healthcare/advancing- public -health.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       3 works to provide medical professionals with educational opportunities to help pursue a bleed -free world. In November 2012, Baxter 
held the sixth Hemophilia University program, in Merida, Mexico, whic h included lectures and educational sessions for Latin American 
hematologists and healthcare professionals about the latest diagnostic and treatment modalities. The event featured a hemophi lia 
expert panel for national and local Mexican media to draw atten tion to standards of care in the country, as well as a session for local 
hemophilia patients and their families to discuss prophylaxis therapy and access to treatment. Baxter also improves access to  care for 
hemophilia patients in the United States through its Bilingual Healthcare Educators program. This initiative offers peer -to-peer groups 
for Spanish -speaking hemophilia patients and their families, as well as educational events and resources on topics such as hemophilia 
basics, accessing care in the emer gency room and keeping joints healthy. See Case Study: Families Touched by Hemophilia Receive 
Much -Needed Support in Spanish . 
In 2012, Baxter also entered into partners hips with Stichting Sanquin Bloedvoorziening (Sanquin Blood Supply Foundation) and 
Hemobrás (Empresa Brasileira de Hemoderivados e Biotechnologia) in order to support production of and access to plasma -derived 
therapies that treat conditions including hemo philia. See Public Policy for more information.  
New Approaches to Dialysis Patient Education  
In February 2013, Baxter announced it would provide St. Joseph’s Healthcare Hamilton, a hospital in South Central Ontario, Canada, 
with a gift of $250,000 over five years to provide chronic kidney disease patients with digital educational materials about t reatment 
options. The program will include three phases: 
• Patient First, which focuses  on pre -dialysis information and education on peritoneal dialysis and self management for home dialysis 
patients;  
• Pathways to Empowerment, during which dialysis nurses provide patients with health coaching and teach health management 
techniques; and  
• Plan- Do-Act, during which Baxter and St. Joseph’s monitor and evaluate whether the tools are meeting the needs of the patients  
Educating Anesthesiologists  
Improving education for anesthesiologists from developing countries is one of the greatest unmet needs in the field, according to the 
World Federation of Societies of Anaesthesiologists (WFSA). Since 2008, through a unique partnership with the WFSA through th e 
WFSA -Baxter Scholarship, Baxter has sponsored high potential anesthesiologist trainees from developin g countries to attend the 
World Congress of Anaesthesiologists as well as major regional anesthesiology congresses. These events also enable participan ts to 
develop an international network. 
Baxter also supported the development of a two -disc set of obstet ric anesthesiology teaching materials. The CDs, available to 
anesthesia providers in developing countries, contain articles, lectures and refresher courses about safe and appropriate ane sthetic 
management of obstetric patients. Since 2010, more than 3,000 CDs have been distributed.  
Addressing Drug Shortages  
During the last six years, many countries, including Canada, the United Kingdom, the United States and others, have increasin gly 
experienced shortages of pharmaceutical products. This complex issue stems  from interrelated factors including shifts in clinical 
practices, wholesaler and pharmacy inventory strategies, raw material shortages, changes in hospital and pharmacy contractual  
relationships with suppliers and wholesalers, distribution protocols manda ted by other regulatory agencies, company decisions to 
discontinue specific medicines and spikes in demand due to natural disasters.  
Baxter is committed to finding solutions to this issue that are balanced and involve stakeholders across the value chain. T he 
company’s extensive portfolio offers clinicians and patients options to address their supply needs through similar products o r drugs 
available in slightly different delivery forms that may be suitable alternatives for products in short supply.  
In numero us cases recently, Baxter has helped patients continue to receive the treatments they need. For example, the company has 
accelerated production to meet increased demand arising from competitor shortages of several IV products.  
Baxter has also collaborated with professional associations and government agencies to develop clinical g uidance for health providers 
that have shifted their standard practices as a result of product shortages. For example, Baxter recently sponsored the first  ever 	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/access -to-healthcare/advancing- public -health.htm l 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/access -to-healthcare/base- of-the-pyramid.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/access -to-healthcare/product -donations.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       4 summit to address IV nutrition safety, in collaboration with the FDA and the American Society f or Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition 
(ASPEN), the Institute for Safe Medication Practices and the American Society of Health -System Pharmacists, among others. 
Recommendations from the event were published in ASPEN’s Journal of Parenteral and Enteral Nutriti on. 
Base of the Pyramid 
In 2012, Baxter reviewed its emerging technology 
portfolio to assess how its existing and previously -
shelved technology and products could be used in regions with high “base of the pyramid"
1 (BoP) 
representation. During the year, the company gained further executive support for the strategy; decided to build and embed a business model innovation capability 
in the organization to accelerate international growth, in 
particular with respect to the base of the pyramid; invested in international market development; and 
increased local resources and capability for two 
business model innovation projects in China.  
Baxter also joined the International Institute for Sustainable Enterprise and the International Partnership for Innovative Health care Delivery, a coalition affiliated 
with the World Economic Forum, to learn from others 
addressing the base of the pyramid and specific 
healthcare innovations.  
1 "Base of the pyramid” refers to the approximately 4 billion 
people worldwide who each live o n less than $1,500 annually. This population generally has limited access to the healthcare market  
Product Donations 
Baxter donates products to help improve access to healthcare worldwide. In 2012, the company 
contributed more than $28 million in product s and patient assistance programs to assist people in 
need in 63 countries (see map). To maximize impact, Baxter donates products that recipient 
organizations have requested specifically, such as intravenous (IV) solutions, hemostatic sealants, 
pharmaceuticals and hemophilia products. Baxter's Global Community Relations team manages the process, guided by Baxter's Global Product Donation Policy, which covers areas such as licensing, expiration and dating, accounting and tax laws, and export requirements.  
The team works with supply chain managers and others at Baxter to identify opportunities to donate products, matching available inventory to patient need. In some cases, the co mpany 
donates excess products that might be classified as regulated waste if destroyed. This has the 
added benefit of helping Baxter reduce waste and associated expenses.  
To help improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the product donation process and facilitate 
timely, targeted support to communities in need, Baxter focuses its efforts on proactive strategic product donations. This approach increases aid  organizations’ ability to plan and respond to 
emergencies, since the donor organizations know in advance what to expect from Baxter.  
During 2012, Baxter continued to work with its humanitarian aid partners – AmeriCares and Direct Relief International (D RI) – to pre -
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/access -to-healthcare/product -donations.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       5 position products for emergencies as well as ongoing needs in underserved communities. AmeriCares, an international disaster -relief 
and humanitarian -aid organization, airlifts critical medicines, medical supplies and other aid to areas sufferi ng humanitarian crises 
resulting from natural disasters or political strife. Direct Relief International, a non -profit, non- sectarian humanitarian -assistance 
organization, provides medical assistance to victims of poverty, disaster and civil unrest. Baxter  collaborates with these organizations 
to develop a yearly product donation plan. This helps ensure that Baxter contributes most needed products to stabilize supply  in least 
developed and developing economies, and that the company’s products are first on t he scene following disasters and tragedies.  
Baxter contributed products with long shelf lives to aid partners in 2012 to provide organizations with a steady supply of me dicines for 
ongoing support as well as critical therapies to offer in times of crisis. For example:  
• Malawi —Baxter shipped antibiotics to AmeriCares to distribute throughout the country, following an urgent request from the 
Malawian president, due to hospital shortages. This one- time request has prompted Baxter to add this product to its futu re 
donation shipments.  
• Asunción, Paraguay— Local doctors use Baxter’s products from AmeriCares’ shipments to treat the wounds of local residents, 
which recently included a four -year-old girl who was severely burned.  
• Shirati, Tanzania— At Sota Health Center,  a DRI program uses products from Baxter and other companies to provide free treatment 
to children with Burkitt’s Lymphoma. This disease has a high mortality rate in Africa, but patients with a full course of 
treatment experience a high survival rate.  
• Soma liland —DRI shipped Baxter products to a local maternity hospital, enabling doctors to perform procedures for women 
suffering from obstetric fistula. Although the country’s maternal mortality rate is very high, this hospital had zero such 
incidents out of n early 1,300 deliveries and more than 170 Cesarean sections it performed in 2012.  
Pre-positioned to Assist in Aftermath of Natural Disasters  
In 2012, pre -positioned Baxter products were on hand in countries that were impacted by, or still recovering from, natural disasters.  
When Volcan del Fuego in Guatemala erupted in September 2012, more than 33,000 people in the area needed to evacuate, and 
many required shelter and medical assistance. Given the proximity of local non -profit and DRI partner, God’s Child Project, the 
government asked the organization to serve as an evacuation center. God’s Child Project had supplies on hand —including Baxter 
products— from DRI’s Hurricane Preparedness Program, which effectively met the medical needs of community members impa cted 
by the disaster.  
In October 2012, when Superstorm Sandy struck New York, Baxter products were made available to the community through both AmeriCares and DRI. AmeriCares distributed Baxter irrigation products to a volunteer clinic to help doctors tre at wounds. DRI had 
medical supplies both in Hurricane Preparedness Program packs that had been shipped ahead of time, as well as subsequent 
shipments from the organization’s warehouse. Additionally, Baxter service specialists worked in difficult conditions  to make regular 
renal therapy deliveries to patients in areas hard hit by the storm.  
Today, areas of Haiti are still impacted by the earthquake that struck in January 2010 and the subsequent cholera outbreak. B axter 
continues to partner with AmeriCares an d DRI to provide product donations to meet the ongoing health needs of local residents who 
continue to rebuild their lives in the aftermath of the disaster. DRI has delivered nearly $5 million of Baxter products to H aiti since the 
incident. 
World Federatio n of Hemophilia Global Alliance for Progress  
Baxter also facilitates access to healthcare through support of non -profit organizations such as the World Federation of Hemophilia, 
dedicated to improving the lives of people with hemophilia and related bleedin g disorders. Baxter is the founding sponsor of the 
organization's 10- year Global Alliance for Progress (GAP) program, which works to improve hemophilia diagnosis and treatment in 
developing countries. Since its launch in 2003, GAP has diagnosed more than 2 7,000 patients with bleeding disorders – including 
23,000 with hemophilia – in 18 countries, and educated and trained more than 13,000 healthcare professionals and regulators.  
To help ensure that underserved countries have factor replacement treatment, Baxter has donated more than 16 million units of  
product over the past three years through its humanitarian aid partners, the World Federation of Hemophilia and AmeriCares . 1
 	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/access -to-healthcare/product -donations.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.c om/access -to-healthcare/baxter -international- foundation.html 
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       6 Patient Assistance Programs  
Baxter maintains U.S. patient assistance programs to help ensure continuous access to products, for those who qualify, in the  event 
of an  insurance lapse.  
Additionally, Baxter is a long -time supporter of Patient Services, Inc. (PSI), a non -profit organization that provides financial assistance 
to patients with rare disorders, to help them afford health insurance. Over the last 14 years, Bax ter has contributed nearly $9 million to 
PSI programs that support patients with bleeding disorders, alpha -1 antitrypsin deficiency (AAT) and primary immune disease. 
Through these efforts, PSI assisted more than 550 patients with these disorders in 2012.  
Baxter continues to run the myPN Support program, a patient assistance program for U.S. citizens and legal residents in the Un ited 
States that supports qualifying patients with continued access to certain parenteral nutrition (PN) drug therapies. For more 
information, please see the section on Baxter’s patient and caregiver services and programs . 
Medical Missions  
When healthcare professionals travel overseas to provide charitable medical care to under -served populations, they often work in 
hospitals and clinics lacking modern surgical suite materials. Baxter's BioSurgery hemostatic and tissue sealant products as well as 
anesthesia products are some of  the most requested Baxter products in these situations. During 2012, AmeriCares sent more than 
220 shipments with Baxter products to 37 countries in support of medical missions.  
1 Global Alliance for Progress (GAP) 2012 Summary Report and Results. World F ederation of Hemophilia. December 2012.  
The Baxter International Foundation  
Thanks in part to a grant from The Baxter International Foundation, children in need of physical, speech or occupational ther apy can 
benefit from hippotherapy, using a horse’s movement for rehabilitation, at Ride On Therapeutic Horsemanship in Thousand Oaks, 
California.  
The Baxter International Foundation's primary focus is increasing access to healthcare worldwide. In 2012, the Foundation don ated 
more than $3 million (excluding future commitments) in 13 countries. This included over $725,000 to more than 730 organizations 
through the Foundation's Dollars for Doers and Matching Gifts programs that support 
employees' philanthropic contributions. The majority of the grants resulte d from 
recommendations from Baxter facilities and targeted programs that improve the quality and accessibility of healthcare for the disadvantaged and underserved in local communities.  
Grants awarded in 2012 helped meet local needs to increase access to d ental care, mental 
health care, and other healthcare services for children, the uninsured, and the elderly. 
Recipients included the following:  
• 
China  - Project Hope, in Shanghai, will pilot a care model to improve the efficiency and 
effectiveness of home -based health care for the elderly. 
• Ireland  - Childvision, in Dublin, received funds to support the salaries of two full time 
equine therapists and a project manager for the first year of the organization’s new 
equine program.  
• Mexico  - Aceptame Como Soy, in M orales, used funds for the salaries of two part -time 
psychologists, a full -time nutritionist and the services of an outsourced 
audiologist.  
• United States  - Eisner Pediatric and Family Clinic, in Lo s Angeles, will use 
contributions to add another pharmacist to support the expansion of its pharmacy. 
See a complete list  of recent Baxter International Foundation gr ants with additional detail.  
The Baxter International Foundation also sponsors three prize programs, among the most 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2012 -report/china -renal -therapy.html  
http://www.baxter.com/press_room/features/2013/bilingual_educators.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       7 prestigious in the healthcare field, that recognize organizations and individuals who demonstrate excellence in community ser vice and 
healthcare research.  
Foster G. McGaw Award:  Each year, The Baxter International Foundation, in conjunction with the American Hospital Association 
(AHA) and Health Research & Educational Trust, presents the $100,000 Foster G. McGaw Award to a U.S. healthcare organization that 
delivers innovative programs that improve community health and well -being. In 2012, St. Joseph’s/Candler Health System in 
Savannah, Ga. , received this honor for its broad -based efforts to improve the lives of its most vulnerable community members. This 
faith-based, locally owned, not -for-profit health system features local and regional primary care, specialized inpatient and outpatient 
services, home healthcare services and a wide variety of community outreach and education efforts throughout the region. The aw ard 
recognizes the hospital for several major initiatives including an African -American health information and resource center, fre e clinic 
offering medical translation services, a community center providing education programs and a volunteer income tax assistance 
program for the working poor. (See feature  story). 
William B. Graham Prize:  Working with the Association of University Programs in Health Administration, The Baxter International 
Foundation awards the William B. Graham Prize for Health Services Research  to recognize major contributions to public health 
through innovative research. Mark V. Pauly, Ph.D., one of the nation’s leading health economists, received the $50,000 award in 2012 
for his w ork in the fields of medical economics and health insurance, including research about healthcare reform, conceptual 
foundations for cost -benefit analysis of drugs, and incentives in managed care. His classic study on the economics of moral hazard 
was the f irst to identify how health insurance coverage might affect patients’ use of medical services.  
Episteme Award:  In conjunction with the Honor Society of Nursing – Sigma Theta Tau International – the Baxter International 
Foundation bestows the Episteme Award  every other year to a nurse who has contributed significantly to nursing knowledge 
development, application or disco very that produces sizable public benefit. The next award will be granted in 2013.  
Scholarships for Children of Employees:  The Foundation also has a long -standing commitment to the education of employees' 
children through scholarships. Each year, scholarsh ip awards are presented on a merit basis. A neutral, third party agency evaluates 
the applications on the basis of the students' academic, extracurricular and employment accomplishments. Recipients receive a  
$1,000 cash award during the academic year for w hich they are selected. Scholarships may be renewed for up to three additional 
years. In 2012, the Foundation awarded 88 new scholarships. Of those scholarships, 65 students were from the United States an d 
Puerto Rico, representing 29 states. The remaining  23 were international students from 17 different countries around the world. 
Additionally, in 2012, the program awarded 195 renewal scholarships. Of these, 144 students were in 18 states and Puerto Rico  and 
51 students were from 20 different countries.  
Case Study: Improving Access to Renal Therapy in China  
One million people in China are estimated to have end stage renal disease (ESRD), or irreversible kidney failure. In 2012, Ch ina’s 
Ministry of Health ranked ESRD as one of the eight most critical  diseases in the country. Despite this, only a minority of affected 
individuals receive regular treatment.  
For patients with ESRD in rural China, the situation is especially challenging. Access to care and therapy is often limited d ue to low 
awareness of t he disease and insufficient hospital infrastructure and personnel.  
A recent partnership between Baxter China and the Chinese National Institute of Hospital Administration aims to help address these 
and related issues. The partnership, formally established in November 2012 when Baxter China signed a memorandum of 
understanding with the National Institute of Hospital Administration under the Ministry of Health, will develop and deploy a sustainable 
care and delivery model for peritoneal dialysis (PD) patients  with ESRD in rural parts of the country. PD is a home -based therapy in 
which patients infuse a solution through a surgically implanted catheter in their abdomen into their peritoneum, or abdominal  cavity, 
where it draws waste products across the peritonea l membrane (which serves as a natural filter) and into the solution.  
The program, "Flying Angel," piloted in six provinces beginning in early 2012. It focuses on establishing a distribution mode l for PD 
supplies, improving standards of care, developing pub lic education programs, training healthcare professionals and improving 
affordability for patients. A recent health economic study by the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security (MoHRSS) 	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2012 -report/china -renal -therapy.html  
http://www.baxter.com/press_room/features/2013/bilingual_educators.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       8 concluded that PD is a cost -effective treatment compared with  in-center hemodialysis and savings would enable more patients to 
receive therapy.  
"Baxter believes that partnerships are critical to creating and ensuring a sustainable healthcare future for China. As a lead er in the 
discovery and development of innovati ve specialized treatments for chronic and acute diseases, Baxter has been committed to 
meeting China’s healthcare needs for more than 20 years," said Sanjay Prabhakaran, general manager, Baxter China/Hong Kong. 
"Our partnerships focus on expanding and sust aining access to quality care from hospital to home."  
Case Study: Feature Story 
Families touched by hemophilia receive much -needed support in Spanish  
Carmen and Daniel Navarro were growing increasingly concerned. Their one -year-old son Brian was showing signs of injury that 
seemed to appear out of thin air —alarming bruises u nder his arms and inside his mouth.    
As native Spanish speakers, interactions with English -speaking medical staff were often challenging for the Los Angeles -based 
Navarros. But that didn't keep them from rushing Brian to an urgent care clinic after a part icularly bad bruise. However, instead of 
getting the answers they desperately sought, they were assigned a social worker and endured a humiliating child abuse investi gation. 
So when they needed to take Brian to the hospital for severe bleeding from his mou th a few months later, the family was fearful. 
However, this time there was no suspicion. The doctor told them, "Your son has a medical condition with no cure." Brian was diagnosed with hemophilia A, a rare genetic blood clotting disorder that primarily affects males. People living with hemophilia do not 
have enough of, or are missing, one of the blood clotting proteins, known as factors, naturally found in blood. The body depe nds on 
these clotting factors to stop bleeding after an injury and to promote hea ling. 
Carmen and Daniel were shocked. Their two oldest sons did not have hemophilia and no other relatives, that they are aware of,  have 
the condition. "It was very hard to know and accept that this was a medical condition he'd have to live with," remember ed Carmen. "I 
live for my family. I didn't want to see my son in pain."  
The Navarros struggled to understand the brief hemophilia A explanation the doctor provided in English, and the hospital offe red no 
resources in Spanish. Provided with only a short -term treatment and a follow- up appointment two weeks later, the family was still 
concerned. So they quickly got Brian in the car and made the three -hour trip south to Tijuana, Mexico, to see a doctor there with 
whom they could speak in Spanish.   
A need for resources in Spanish  
While it was comforting to speak to a doctor in their preferred language, the Navarros knew that traveling to Mexico for regu lar 
medical care was not feasible, and quickly took steps to learn more about hemophilia and local treatment options for their son. When 
Brian was an older child, Carmen and Daniel learned about Baxter International Inc.'s Bilingual Healthcare Educators initiati ve. 
Started in 2006, Baxter's Bilingual Healthcare Educators located in cities across the U.S . provide Spanish —speaking patients and 
their families with culturally —appropriate educational programs about hemophilia, options for care and information on how to 
navigate an often complex healthcare system, all in their preferred language. Hispanics now  make up more than 16 percent of the 
U.S. population, a figure that is expected to continue to grow significantly in the next decade. As a leader in the hemophili a 
community with a history of innovating to better serve patients, Baxter established this tea m to support the nearly 1,900 Hispanics in 
the U.S. who live with hemophilia A, as many of these patients and their families -such as the Navarros- can experience gaps in care 
due to language and cultural barriers, lack of access to preventive care or basic knowledge on accessing the healthcare system.  
There had been a misconception that Hispanic hemophilia patients simply weren't interested in taking part in educational 
opportunities, However, says RosaLee Satterthwaite, director of marketing at Baxter, who leads the initiative, "When we were assessing the need for a program like this, there was such a resounding positive response from the community. These programs just 
needed to be in Spanish."	  
http://www.baxter.com/press_room/features/2013/bilingual_educators.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       9 The initiative has grown to encompass educational programs, peer -to-peer 
support groups, outreach at Hispanic community events and political advocacy 
work. Its "Facts First" educational program contains a repertoire of presentations on 19 different topics
—including ones about basic information about 
hemophilia, how to best access care in the emergency room and learning how to 
keep joints healthy.  
The team continues to expand, with additional team members expected to be added in key Spanish -speaking markets in 2013. "We're excited about the 
company's ongoing commitment t o this initiative," says Satterthwaite. "And we 
welcome the opportunity to assess and work with other ethnic/cultural groups in need."  
Essential support from the hemophilia community  
The hemophilia peer- to-peer groups have been widely embraced, and 8 such 
groups have been established in California, Florida, Illinois, North Carolina, 
Texas, Washington and the New England area. 
"There have been some families out there who had no idea there were so many 
Spanish- speaking people with hemophilia in their own back yard," said 
Esperanza Ramos, LVN, Baxter's senior manager of health education, who has worked closely with the Navarro family over the past four years and checks in periodically to see how Brian is doing. Ramos adds, "Being able to reach out to 
families in  a culturally sensitive way makes a big difference in their overall 
understanding and healthcare experience."  
Carmen agrees. "For me, it was important to have support in Spanish. The 
support group is part of the education. It made me feel really good
—like I was 
getting treatment too." She noted that while Brian is bilingual, and she now is proficient in English, the bilingual educational sessions were also helpful for 
other Spanish- speaking family members involved in Brian's care who need to 
understand the disease and his treatment. "Everyone needs to know what to do 
in case of an emergency," she stressed.     
Brian, now a busy 19 -year-old who enjoys playing pick -up basketball games in 
the park, works part -time and plans to start college classes in the spring  at West 
Los Angeles College.  
"It was like going to church every Sunday," Brian said, of his familiarity with the 
Baxter educational events. "It's helped me to cope, to realize that I'm not the only one dealing with this."  
In addition to providing emotiona l support for him and his family, Brian noted 
that the educational events also offered valuable information about treatment options and lifestyle changes that could reduce bleeding episodes, as well as 
direction regarding insurance and healthcare providers . 
"They tell you how to stay in good health and keep a good balance in your life," 
he said. "Anything my mom learned from the events, she used with me."  
Sharing experiences to help others  
His mother hopes that she and her family can help others who are goi ng through the same confusion and pain that they went through 
when Brian was first diagnosed.  
	  
http://www.baxter.com/press_room/features/2013/bilingual_educators.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       10 "It's really hard when your child is first diagnosed and you don't know what it is or who to ask for help, especially when yo u are a 
Spanish speaker," said Carmen , who is still actively involved in attending Baxter educational programs and other events. "We have to 
show parents that they are not alone, and tell them to ask questions and get involved."  
She added, "I always give Brian the freedom to be himself, and n ever make him feel like he can't do something. Your child may seem 
a little more fragile, but with proper treatment and support from your doctor, they can do it."    
Brian has been helping to share this empowering message with parents of other children duri ng these support gatherings.   
"At one of the events I met a parent who had a doctor tell her that her son wouldn't be normal," he shared. "When I started t elling her 
about my experience with hemophilia and everything I can do, she started tearing up. This only inspires me to continue to tell my story 
and share with others how hemophilia doesn't define me."  
 
 Community Support  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/community -support/index.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       2 Community Support  
 
Baxter and its employees support communities worldwide through financial contributions, product donations, 
healthcare access  initiatives and employee volunteerism. Increasing access to healthcare, promoting 
community service and supporting employee engagement through these efforts are core principles of the 
company’s vision and culture.  
This section includes the following pages : 
• Education and Critical Community Needs  - Baxter makes financial and in -kind donations to address needs such as improving 
education, protecting the enviro nment and fostering patient safety.  
• Employee Involvement  - The company encourages employees to volunteer time and expertise in their communities and matches 
employees' monetary contributions to eligible U.S. charitable organizations through The Baxter International Foundation Match ing 
Gifts Program.  
Baxter’s community suppor t efforts benefit people in need worldwide, while strengthening the company's business. These initiatives 
improve community relations, demonstrate Baxter's commitment and increase employee engagement. During 2012, Baxter and The 
Baxter International Founda tion gave more than $56 million, including product donations, cash contributions and foundation grants  
The company has contributed more than $318 million over the last five years.  
Baxter and The Baxter International Foundation Charitable Giving* (Dollars in Millions)  
 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 
Product Donations **  
Products/Patient Assistance Programs  $10.86 $18.94 $48.09 $47.17 $28.02 
Business and Facility Cash Donations   
Within U.S.  $12.17 $15.29 $14.66 $12.88 $12.31 
Outside U.S.  16.75 15.11 12.56 16.05 13.10 
Subtotal   $28.92 $30.40 $27.22 $28.93 $25.52 
The Baxter International Foundation Contributions  
Within U.S. (including Puerto Rico)  
Grants  $1.43 $1.10 $1.32 $1.65 $1.47 
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/community -support/critical -community- needs.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.       3 Matching Gifts & Dollars for Doers  0.75 0.76 0.74 0.71 0.65 
Scholarships  0.17 0.19 0.20 0.21 0.21 
Prize Programs  0.19 0.21 0.26 0.23 0.23 
Subtotal  $2.54 $2.24 $2.47 $2.83 $2.56 
Outside the U.S.  
Grants  $1.39 $1.21 $1.56 $1.14 $0.50 
Scholarships  0.04 0.06 0.07 0.07 0.07 
Subtotal  1.43 1.27 1.63 1.21 0.57 
Total Foundation Contributions  $4.01 $3.51 $4.10 $4.04 $3.13 
Total Charitable Giving   $43.79 $52.85 $79.41 $80.14 $56.67 
*Some subtotals vary slightly from sum of items in category, due to rounding.  
**Variations in Baxter's annual product donations are due to fluctuations in community needs, the severity and volume of disaster relief response, the regulatory 
environment, manufacturing processes, change in product mix and marketing. The company identif ies opportunities to donate and responds to community requests as 
appropriate. See Product Donations.  
Education and Critical 
Community Needs  
Baxter helps communities  worldwide address a broad 
range of needs, in addition to improving access to 
healthcare. These include improving education, building awareness of chronic diseases, supporting youth services, and protecting the environment. Baxter's business units, functio ns and manufacturing facilities 
contributed $25 million worldwide in 2012, nearly 50% outside the United States. Baxter Chairman and CEO Robert L. Parkinson was recently named one of the 100 
CEO Leaders in STEM by STEMconnector®.  
Education  
According to th e 2011 Nation’s Report Card, only 40% 
of U.S. fourth -graders and 35% of eighth -graders 
perform at or above grade level in math. In the 2009 
Nation’s Report Card, the latest year that the science proficiency was assessed for those grade levels, just 
34% of fourth -graders, 32% of eighth -graders and 21% 
of 12th -graders perform on par for their grade level in 
science.
1 Advancing elementary and high school math and science education today sets the foundation for medical discoveries for 
years to come. As a scienc e- and technology -based healthcare company, Baxter has a responsibility to help provide current students 
as well as future generations with opportunities to thrive in these areas. The company focuses on enhancing local math and sc ience 
education programs t o prepare students for careers in science.  
In 2008, Baxter launched Science@Work: Expanding Minds with Real -World Science, a multi -year commitment to Chicago Public 
Schools (CPS) to support teacher training and student development in healthcare and biotech nology. In the 2011 -2012 school year, the 
program reached nearly 14,000 students and almost 190 teachers through in -depth biotechnology teacher training and lesson plans. 
This increased the total to more than 60,000 students and 720 teachers since 2008, in  45 percent of the 145 high schools throughout 
the district. 
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/community -support/critical -community- needs.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.       4 Baxter also supported 10 events for teachers and students, including several enabling 
students to experience science first -hand through interactions with Baxter professionals. 
This included a Ba xter partnership with Northwestern University's Office of STEM 
Education Partnerships and the Biotechnology Center of Excellence at Lindblom Math and Science Academy in 2012 to provide teachers professional development workshops to help bring biotechnology  into the classroom. Teachers participated in hands -on labs at 
Northwestern and Lindblom and visited Baxter's labs at its Round Lake, Illinois facility to 
gain real -life context.  
In 2012, Baxter developed a paid internship program for high school students from 
Chicago's Lindblom Math and Science Academy in response to the call from the White 
House Council for Community Solutions and the U.S. Department of Labor for businesses, non-profit organizations, and government to participate in the Summer Jobs+ progr am. 
Students interned at Baxter's headquarters in specific job functions, working on diverse projects, participating in weekly orientation sessions with senior executives, and learning 
about office culture and common workplace practices.  
Other education i nitiatives in 2012 included:  
FIRST® – Baxter is a founding member of FIRST (For Inspiration and Recognition of 
Science and Technology), and the company supports local students in regional and 
national competitions. This organization engages students in me ntor-based programs that 
build science, engineering and technology skills, inspire innovation, and foster self -
confidence and communication and leadership abilities. In 2012, the Baxter Bomb Squad 
team in Mountain Home, Arkansas, won the FIRST Robotics Com petition Championship for 
the first time in the team's 17 years of participation, with a robot the students designed, programmed and built to compete i n a 
basketball -inspired game.  
Junior Achievement – During the 2011 -12 school year, nearly 370 Baxter volu nteers in nine countries, including many of the company’s 
senior leaders, spent nearly 4,000 hours teaching financial literacy to more than 7,800 students.  
Street Law, Inc. – Sixteen Baxter lawyers, paralegals and other professionals created and delivered in-classroom lessons to Lindblom 
Math and Science Academy students on various legal topics in conjunction with Street Law, Inc., a nonprofit organization dedi cated to 
teaching groups underrepresented in the legal field about law, democracy and human rights . 
Additional commun ity support highlights from 2012 include:  
World Hemophilia Day:  In April 2012, Baxter marked the 22nd anniversary of World Hemophilia Day, dedicated to promoting 
awareness of hemophilia and treatment availability for people living with the disease worldwide. Baxter offices around the wo rld 
participated in local and regional grassroots events, online educational efforts and roundtable discussions, and by providing 
scholarships. The company also joined forces with the World Federation of Hemophilia (WFH) to launch Advocacy in Action, a pr ogram 
designed to help countries advocate for improved and sustained care for people with bleeding disorders. A 6 -year initiative exclusively 
supported by a grant from Baxter, Advocacy in Action strengthens the capabilities of the WFH's national member organizations to lobb y 
their governments effectively on behalf of regional and national bleeding disorder communities. The program consists of inter active 
workshops, support tools, an individualized coaching program and a dedicated WFH staff member to help implement advocacy and 
public  policy action plans .
Last year during World Hemophilia Day, the advocacy team in Colombia launched Hemoconexion, a program that promotes the 
wellbeing of patients by providing educational materials, recreational activities and information about e mployment opportunities through 
alliances with local companies and providers. So far, the program has worked with dozens of hemophilia patients and their fam ily 
members all around Colombia.  
World PI Week: World PI Week, established in April 2011 with supp ort from Baxter, raises the recognition and diagnosis of primary 
immunodeficiencies (PI).2 During the event, organizers worldwide encourage improved PI awareness and diagnosis among medical 
professionals and the general public. Activities in 2012 included government awareness initiatives, PI treatment center openings, and 
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/community -support/critical -community- needs.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/community -support/employee- involvement.html 
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.       5 others, reinforcing the message that detecting the disease early can have an important inmpact on patients’ lives . 
World Kidney Day:  In March 2012, Baxter organized several World Kidney Da y activities worldwide, to raise awareness of chronic 
kidney disease detection, prevention and treatment.  
For example, Baxter sponsored World Kidney Day celebrations in hospitals and kidney research centers across India, reaching a bout 
2,000 renal patients  and their family members, 150 nephrologists and nurses, and health officials and paramedic staff. These events 
highlighted the treatment options available for kidney failure through literature and videos, and offered free kidney health screenings.  
Baxter Mexico collaborated with ALE Association —a Mexico City -based organization dedicated to organ donation and transplant 
awareness —and other non -governmental groups to organize a high profile photo exhibition and poster contest aimed at increasing 
awareness of  kidney disease prevention, kidney donation and the need for stronger public health policies that address chronic renal 
disease in Mexico. The photo exhibition, held on Mexico City’s busiest street, featured the faces and personal stories of 12 Baxter PD 
patients who receive therapy through Mexico’s social security program. Each patient described the benefits they’ve experienced  with 
PD. Baxter Thailand organized a “Quality Lifestyle for PD Patients” campaign where TV and radio journalists interviewed PD pa tients, 
nephrologists, and a renal nurse about kidney disease and therapy options. The objective was to educate the public about the disease 
and the potential benefits of PD.  
14th and 12th grade results based on the 2009 Nation’s Report Card assessment – the latest year that science proficiency was evaluated for those grade levels. 8th grade 
results are based on 2011 Nation’s Report Card assessment.  
2 Primary immunodeficiencies (PI) are a class of approximately 175 hereditary genetic defects of the immune system that cause increased susceptibility to a wide range of 
infections, which are often chronicand can be serious. An estimated 10 million people suffer from PI worldwide.  
 
Employee Involvement  
Employee Volunteerism  
In 2012, more than 6,500 Baxter employees volunteered more than 127,000 hours in their 
communities, addressing local concerns such as healthcare, the environment and education. Employee involvement takes many forms, such as volunteering at a school or blood drive, serving at a hospital or food pantry, participating in community park clean -up days, or joining a local non -
profit organization board or committee. Employees at each Baxter site select vo lunteer activities to 
undertake and organizations to support, as they can best determine the most relevant and highest 
impact projects.  
In 2012, Baxter sponsored its fourth annual "Baxter World Environment Week" to promote 
sustainable living in employees'  communities and encourage employees to support the company's 
commitment to creating a more sustainable world. "Understanding Our Impact" was the theme of the 2012 event, which was again held the first week of June to correspond with the United Nation’s World Environment Day. More than 120 Baxter sites worldwide sponsored events that promoted 
earth -friendly activities. Highlights included:  
• Cali, Colombia - The facility provided employees with an ecological footprint calculator to determine the number of tr ees they would 
need to plant to offset their environmental impact.  
• Pisa, Italy - Pisa’s Environment, Health and Safety Team organized a guided tour of the Italian League for Bird Protection’s 
Massaciuccoli Oasis to teach students about the area and encour age them to enjoy and respect nature.  
• Auckland, New Zealand - Employees took part in the the Motuihe Restoration Project, planting native trees on Motuihe, an island in 
the Hauraki Gulf. This project aims to restore the island to its natural state of beac hes, native forests, wetlands and open spaces, 
which are home to rare and endangered birds and insects.  
	  
http://www.baxter.com/press_room/features/2013/muchin_magazine.html 
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.       6 Making a Meaningful Difference Month  
Each October, Baxter employees in the Asia Pacific region 
volunteer time and contribute funds to "Making a Meanin gful 
Difference" month activities to improve the lives of people in local communities and care for the environment. Highlights from 2012 
included:  
• Japan  (all offices) – Employees collected bottle caps to donate 
to Ecocap Movement, which sold them to recycl ers and then 
used the proceeds to buy polio vaccines for children in 
developing countries.  
• Taipei, Taiwan  – Employees taught children from the Taiwan 
Fund for Children and Families how to cook healthy food and pack a wholesome lunch box.  
Employees can trac k their efforts using Baxter's internal 
volunteerism website. Since 2008, the company has recognized 
employees who volunteer for 40 or more hours of community work during the year. Baxter contributes to organizations on behalf of employees who donate 75 or  more hours. More than 680 Baxter 
employees volunteered at least 40 hours in 2012.  
In the United States, The Baxter International Foundation Dollars for Doers program provides grants to qualified organizations in 
which Baxter employees have actively volun teered for at least six 
months of the year. Past recipients include hospitals and 
hospices, humane societies, emergency shelters, historical societies, volunteer fire departments, substance -abuse prevention 
services and youth service organizations. In 2012 , the program 
provided 61 grants to 43 organizations for a total of $24,500.  
75 Days of Caring  
To commemorate Baxter Canada’s 75th anniversary in 2012, employees in the country participated in more than 20 team events du ring 
“75 Days of Caring,” including environmental education, gardening and horticulture, socializing with senior citizens, and packing 
physician kits for overseas medical missions. Baxter employees contributed more than 6,100 volunteer hours and supported organizations such as Camp Dorset, a  camp for children with chronic disease, and the Mississauga Food Bank.  
Employee Giving 
Baxter employees also contribute financial resources to worthy causes. The Baxter International Foundation Matching Gift Prog ram 
matches employee donations of $25 or m ore, up to $5,000, to non -profit, tax -exempt U.S. hospitals and healthcare agencies, schools 
and cultural organizations. In 2012, The Baxter International Foundation matched gifts to eligible organizations submitted by  nearly 
2,000 U.S. -based employees fro m 39 states. Gifts totaled $701,175, which doubled the impact to 730 charitable organizations.  
Case Study: Feature Story  
Baxter employees host sessions for critical thinking and debate at Chicago high 
school  
Nestled in the pages of magazines like Time , Ebony, Latina, Chicago Magazine, Sports Illustrated  and The Economist  are news items, 
ideas and controversies that high school students from Muchin College Prep in Chicago —a charter school that serves 500 students 
from more than 45 zip codes throughout the  city and features many educational innovations —eagerly await to pore over each month.
	  
http://www.baxter.com/press_room/features/2013/muchin_magazine.html 
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.       7 Magazines in hand, students gather in the school's library once a month to bring 
the topics found in these publications to life through spirited discussion and 
debate, transforming the space into a salon of critical thinking.  
Facilitated by six Baxter International Inc. employee volunteers, Muchin College 
Prep's magazine club was launched by the company's African American Leadership Council (AALC) to fill a need for periodicals to keep the students up -
to-date on thought -provoking topics and current events. When touring the school 
in 2012, Heather Polk, senior marketing manager in Baxter's Medical Products business and community co -lead for AALC, noticed that the school di dn't have 
magazines in its library that could help engage the students. 
"Magazines are a great way to get young people reading and involved in current 
events," Polk says. "They can also be a good option for those who have limited attention spans or who are n't as receptive to books."  
AALC raised money to purchase magazine subscriptions for eight publications for the library, and started a club on campus to promote reading, critical thinking 
and discussion. About 40 -60 students attend each meeting, during whi ch the 
Baxter volunteers guide an hour -long conversation about hot topics or current 
events.  
"We try to keep it fresh and relevant to where the students are in their lives," 
says Polk. "For example, an article we selected about the Lance Armstrong scandal prompted questions about ethics and peer pressure. We asked 
students, 'What prompted him to cheat?' and 'When do you feel that ethics 
develop in one's life?''"  
Other topics have included gun control, entrepreneurship, AIDS, the presidential 
inauguration, a nd even the marketing behind the Super Bowl. Reading the 
articles can also help impart more general life lessons
—such as the need to be 
discerning about the writer's perspective and the potential for media bias.  
Baxter's support as part of its Science@Work  program helped launch the charter 
high school in 2009, and the company has remained involved with students since then through career development activities and science, technology, 
engineering and mathematics (STEM) programs. However, the company has 
recognized the value in fostering critical thinking and analysis skills through non -
science avenues, in addition to more traditional STEM programs.  
Polk explains, "Through these discussions we encourage debate, trying to show 
the students how to develop, articulate and support their opinions. We hope that 
these skills will help them not only in high school, but also in college and in their 
careers."  
Lauren Craft, Muchin College Prep Founding Dean of Students, has seen a warm reception to the magazine club since  its inception.  
"The Baxter volunteers pose great questions that really get them thinking, which they appreciate. Students are showing up in large 
numbers, and word of mouth has been spreading about the program," Craft says. 
She adds that beyond the opport unity for students to engage in thought- provoking discussion and debate, the partnership with Baxter 
also exposes students to professionals from the corporate sphere.  
"Getting face time with Baxter volunteers is really valuable, as it provides students a c hance to learn what they do in their careers and 
what corporate culture is like," Craft explains.  
Students from Muchin have had the opportunity to get face -to-face with corporate culture and careers through other Baxter initiatives as 
	  
http://www.baxter.com/press_room/features/2013/muchin_magazine.html 
http://www.sustainability.baxte r.com/quick -links/case -studies/2012 -report/community- support.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.       8 well. In 2009, Last year, more than 20 employees at Baxter Round Lake facility welcomed Muchin students to tour the microscopy and 
biology labs. This year, 15 employees from research & development and the commercial group visited the school three times to support 
biology, ph ysics and chemistry classes at Muchin. And more than 20 Baxter executives have participated in career day opportunities 
with Muchin students both on site at Baxter and within their classrooms.  
Polk says that she and the other Baxter volunteers are eager to  remain involved in the club, and to see students continue to improve 
their critical thinking and debate skills.  
"Teenagers can often feel they are being talked down to, or aren't really given the chance to be heard," Polk says. "I tell t hem that 
everyone has a voice. We're giving them a chance to express their opinions and perspectives."  
Case Study: Baxter Helps Connect Local Community 
through Millennium Trail  
Employees and visitors heading to Baxter's Round Lake, Illinois, United States facility will so on 
have an alternate mode of transportation for getting there. Over the past decade, the company 
worked with the Lake County Forest Preserves (LCFP) to help develop the Millennium Trail, 
which, once finished, will connect central, western and northern Lake  County communities and 
forest preserves through 35 miles of trails for hiking, biking and horseback riding. Today, more 
than 20 of those miles are completed and available for public use, and Baxter has been instrumental in making some of them a reality th rough a series of land sales and easement 
permissions throughout the last several years. The company's efforts will help ensure the trail is built without obstruction, said Bonnie Thomson Carter, LCFP commissioner and chairman of its Planning and Restorati on Committee.  
"Baxter's support has made it possible for the Forest Preserves to reach its goals of bringing trail access and connected preserves to the western quarter of Lake County," Thomson Carter 
said. By linking residential areas to parks, forest pr eserves, schools, businesses and shopping 
districts, trails allow people to alter their travel behavior by bicycling or hiking to their destination 
instead of driving. At the end of the day, it means cleaner air, less traffic and a greater quality of 
life for all Lake County residents -- including many Baxter employees.  
The Millennium Trail's complex network of connected open spaces also provides a vital and 
diverse habitat for a variety of plants and animals. Baxter has worked with the Forest Preserves to establish natural areas on both sides of the trail as it runs adjacent to Baxter's facility to 
encourage the growth of native prairie and woodland species, designed to attract a variety of 
wildlife and create a scenic passageway.  
"I continually hear from  residents about how much they use these trails and how much they 
appreciate this connection to nature," Thomson Carter said. In addition to connecting residents 
to nature, the trail also helps encourage connections between neighboring areas by improving 
regional transit -- a priority in building more environmentally sustainable communities, said Art Gibson, Baxter vice president of 
Environment, Health and Safety and Sustainability.  
"Many Baxter employees live and work in Lake County -- we are part of this  community -- and we're committed to working with the Lake 
County Forest Preserves to make it a more environmentally sustainable community," Gibson said.  
The expansion of the Millennium Trail is not the first time Baxter has partnered with local agencies t o benefit the environment and 
improve quality of life for Lake County residents. In 2002, Baxter launched a novel water reclamation project that reused the  majority of 
treated wastewater at its Round Lake campus. The project, a first -of-its-kind in Illinoi s at the time, involved Baxter leasing up to 185 
acres of land to a local nursery for the planting of nursery stock, which were then irrigated with Baxter's treated wastewate r. And in 
2008, Baxter donated $40,000 to assist in the rebuilding and modernizati on of the Long Lake Dam. The dam, built in 1930, helps control 
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxte r.com/quick -links/case -studies/2012 -report/community- support.html  
http://www.baxter.com/press_room/features/2013/mcgaw_prize.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.       9 of the flow of water from Long Lake to Fox Lake and allows pleasure boat traffic from Long Lake to the 
rest of the Chain of Lakes.  
For more information about the LCFP and the Mil lennium Trail, visit http://www.lcfpd.org/
 
Case Study: Feature Story  
Health System in Savannah, Ga. Recognized for Community 
Service Commitment with Foster G. McGaw Prize  
2012 Winner Honored for its Holistic Approach to Healthcare  
After back surgery and an extended stay in the hospital, Savannah, Ga. resident Denet Whitfield found 
herself out of a job and without a source of income. She couldn't even afford groceries and feared 
losing her apartment. A fter reaching out to several government agencies for help, she was eventually 
referred to St. Joseph's/Candler Health System's St. Mary's Community Center and Health Center, a 
community outreach initiative dedicated to helping people in the poorest neighbo rhoods in Chatham 
County, Ga. improve their quality of life.  
"When someone answered on the other end of the line, I felt hope immediately," Whitfield recalls. 
"Now every time I walk into the building I feel safe."  
St. Mary's helped Whitfield get stabilized  and assisted her in setting up and providing transportation to 
and from several medical appointments at the Health Center. She received a new pair of glasses at 
the center's eye clinic, and attends healthy cooking classes as well as a dance class at the C ommunity 
Center. 
"Whatever state you are in, they accept you and want you to be better," Whitfield says. "My self - 
esteem has really increased since coming to St. Mary's, and my health has also improved."  
In addition to helping people like Whitfield get he althy and connect with other community members, St. 
Mary's also offers General Education Development (GED) test preparation, money management 
counseling, job training skills, after -school tutoring and a preschool program, thanks to the efforts of 
St. Josep h's/Candler. The recent recipient of the 2012 Foster G. McGaw Prize for Excellence in 
Community Service, sponsored by The Baxter International Foundation, the American Hospital 
Association (AHA) and Health Research & Educational Trust, St. Joseph's/Candler  was honored for its 
multifaceted programs that have improved quality of life and access to healthcare for the surrounding 
area.  
"St. Joseph's/Candler Health System and the finalist organizations are outstanding examples of how 
community outreach is improv ing the health of our local communities and making a real difference in 
people's lives," said Donna Namath, Executive Director, The Baxter International Foundation. 
"Through sponsorship of the Foster McGaw Prize, The Baxter International Foundation celebra tes 
excellence in community service."  
Each year, this $100,000 prize is presented to a healthcare organization that provides innovative 
programs that significantly improve the health and well -being of its community. The long -running prize, 
first awarded in  1986, inspires hospitals, health systems and communities to assess and implement 
impactful healthcare initiatives. St. Joseph's/Candler programs such as the health and human services 
found at St. Mary's Community Center and Health Center, free computer ac cess available through the 
African -American Health Information and Resource Center and free healthcare at the Good Samaritan 
Clinic, have impacted the lives of diverse community members who previously lacked adequate healthcare due to financial or accessib ility limitations.  
	  
www.baxter.com/press_room /features/2013/mcgaw_prize.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.       10 St. Joseph/Candler's also partners with the Internal Revenue Service and about 30 volunteers each year to prepare taxes for m any of 
the center's "working poor." The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) program has grown from 65 tax ret urns prepared in 2002, 
with total combined refunds just shy of $100,000, to 745 tax returns filed in 2012, with a combined refund value of $1.5 mill ion. Much of 
this money is then put back into the local economy through resident spending at restaurants and  retail services, says Sister Pat Baber, 
director of St. Mary's Community Center, St. Mary's Health Center and the Good Samaritan Clinic.  
"With the VITA program, the tax returns these folks get are also spent on extremely important everyday items like medi cation, paying 
the water or electricity bill or even buying a bed," Baber says. "Before this program many of them never would have dreamed o f getting 
a tax return."  
The $100,000 that St. Joseph's/Candler has been awarded through the McGaw Prize will go tow ards continuing the important work of 
these programs, as well as several other initiatives the Health System spearheads within the community to bridge the gap in h ealthcare 
access and coverage in its community, and promote a healthier lifestyle among resid ents.  
"We have always believed that external factors strongly influence good health, including safe and adequate housing, education , access 
to information and meaningful employment," says Paul P. Hinchey, President & CEO, St. Joseph's/Candler Health System . "This award 
honors our community partners and the Savannah community in general, for focusing on the social determinants of a healthy per son."  
For more details about St. Joseph's/Candler Health System and the award, please read the press release  or visit the AHA website . 
 
 Public Policy  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/index.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       2 
Public Policy 
 
Many legislative issues affect Baxter's business —reimbursement, tax, trade and a variety of regulatory 
concerns. Baxter's Government Affairs and Public Policy (GAPP) team works with lawmakers, governments 
and policymakers worldwide to support patient acces s to the company's life -saving therapies, increase 
understanding of the benefits of those therapies, and address barriers to care and explore possible solutions. 
This involves dealing directly with governments to improve the regulatory environment and reim bursement 
structure for Baxter's therapies, and collaborating with clinicians, non -governmental organizations and patient 
groups to increase access to care for millions of patients worldwide.  
The Public Policy Committee of Baxter's Board of Directors oversees the company’s government affairs activities. The committe e 
reviews Baxter's political contributions, positions on pending legislation and political advocacy activities. For additional information on 
the company's government affairs activities, see Baxter's 2012 Political Contributions Report. This report details contributi ons made in 
2012 by Baxter and Baxter's Political Action Committee, BAXPAC, as well as information about the company’s m embership in certain 
trade and industry groups.  
Recognizing Baxter’s leadership in this area, the company was ranked as the Surgical, Medical, and Dental Instruments and Sup plies 
sector leader for political disclosure, transparency and accountability in the 2012 CPA -Zicklin Index of Corporate Political Accountability 
and Disclosure.   
Healt hcare Reform  
Advancing Advocating for Patient Access within Insurance Exchanges  
Healthcare reform efforts are underway in the United States to improve efficiency, stem rising costs, address disparities in the level of 
care and expand access. Baxter remains committed to advocating for changes that are in the best interests of its patie nts.  
Health insurance exchanges —electronic platforms implemented by the federal and state governments, which individuals and small 
employers can use to identify and compare private health plans or enroll in public health coverage —are mandated by the Unite d States’ 
2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA). To support its patients with rare diseases, Baxter advocates health in surance 
exchanges to:  
• recognize rare diseases;  
• include an adequate number of in -network providers that address rare con ditions;  
• allow patients with extremely rare diseases access to out -of-network providers without incurring excessive costs;  
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/index.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       3 
• provide access to all medically necessary therapies and healthcare providers;  
• ensure cost sharing does not discriminate or unfairl y target any patient or rare disease group;  
• provide access to third party cost sharing (premium, co- pay and co -insurance) assistance and due process; and  
• provide transparency surrounding management utilization, medical necessity determinations, appeals a nd grievances.  
Adhering to the Physician Payments Sunshine Act 
Baxter is responding to the federal requirements mandated by the Physician Payment Sunshine Act. See Ethics and Compliance . 
Supporting the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act  
Every five years, the United States Congress must reauthorize the law associated with the user fees paid by manufacturers to support 
staff posi tions at the FDA. In 2012, Baxter supported passage of the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act to ensure 
the timely review of new drug, device, biologic, biosimilar, and generic applications before the FDA, allowing patients to re ceive t imely 
access to new and innovative therapies. The new user fee law aims to provide a predictable review process that fosters innova tion and 
helps ensure that Baxter’s patients continue to receive new therapies.  
Providing Internet Resources to Patients and Customers 
To assist patients and customers as healthcare reform is implemented at the state level, Baxter created an Internet tool that  allows 24- 7 
access to state activities on ACA. It is available at the following Baxter websites, which provide informat ion for patients living with 
hemophilia and end -stage renal disease, as well as hospital customers:  
• Hemophilia  
• End Stage Renal Disease  
Safety and Quality  
Reducing the Economic Burden of HAIs 
The World Health Organization (WHO) has identified healthcare a ssociated infections (HAIs) as a leading cause of preventable 
morbidity and mortality, and an area where investments in preventive measures can yield significant cost savings and public h ealth 
benefits. According to the WHO, HAIs affect hundreds of million s of patients worldwide each year, with estimates ranging from 3.5 -12% 
of hospitalized patients in developed economies, and 5 -19% in developing economies. In some locations, more than 25% of patients 
admitted to hospitals acquire HAIs.1  
Raising awareness of the health and economic burden of HAIs among Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) policy makers was a 
major goal of the APEC Life Sciences and Innovation Forum (LSIF) in 2012. Baxter, a board member of the Association for Advanced 
Medical Technologi es (Advamed), actively supported Advamed in its role as knowledge partner for this forum.  
In July 2012, the APEC LSIF convened the first ever APEC High Level Workshop on Reducing the Economic Burden of HAIs, which 
brought together representatives from APE C governments, healthcare organizations, hospitals, the Asian Development Bank and 
others. The workshop recommendations stipulate that nations implement policies and allocate appropriate resources to support 
hospitals in reducing HAIs. In September 2012, t he APEC Ministers adopted the following statement in the Joint Statement of the APEC 
Ministerial Meeting in Vladivostok: “We welcome work to address the economic and public health burden of healthcare associate d 
infections. We encourage officials to work w ith stakeholders to reduce the incidence of infections in healthcare settings.” View the full 
statement: http://www.apec.org/Meeting- Papers/Ministerial -Statements/Annual/2012/2012_amm.aspx .  
Promoting Integrated Care and Efficiency 
In 2011, Baxter UK established and facilitated a group of thought leaders in health, social care, and other sectors of the Na tional Health 
Service (NHS) called The 2048 Group. This  forward -thinking group —named for the year in which the NHS will turn 100 —engages in 
solutions- focused policy debate about the key issues facing the future of healthcare in Britain. The group met several times last year to 
discuss new and innovative ideas about the future of the NHS. In November 2012, the group published INTEGRATED CARE: A 
COLLECTION OF ESSAYS, to promote ideas and dialogue about increasing efficiency and improving the quality, safety and deliver y of 	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/index.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       4 
care to patients. Essays covered topics such as vertical integration of services and support for patients, technologies such as telehealth 
that support patient independence, and how the NHS should shift its focus from individual diseases to viewing a “whole” patie nt 
experience. To read an electr onic version of the book, click here. Moving forward, the group will continue to meet to discuss other key 
policy topics . 
Baxter also continues to implement its Evolving Health program in the U.K., a customer facing strategy which aims to deliver quality and 
efficiency  benefits to the NHS and patients. The company developed the program in response to NHS’s Quality, Innovation, Productivity 
and Prevention (QIPP) challenge, which aims to achieve up to £20 billion (approximately $26 billion) of savings by 2015. The savings 
are intended to help accommodate growing demand for healthcare, partly due to an aging population. To learn more about Evolvi ng 
Health, click here. 
Access to Healthcare  
Medicare IVIG Access Act 
Roughly 10,0 00 Medicare beneficiaries in the United States have been diagnosed with one of approximately 150 primary 
immunodeficiency diseases (PID). PID prevents patients from fighting infections, making the body highly susceptible to a rang e of 
conditions. Intraveno us immune globulin (IVIG) therapy is vital in treating patients with PID. For many people with this condition, home 
treatment is appropriate because of the increased risk of infection associated with receiving care in other health care setti ngs.  
In 2003, Congress changed the law to allow Medicare beneficiaries with PID to receive IVIG treatments at home. However, the law failed to include reimbursement for the necessary nursing services and supplies.  
In May 2011, Representatives Kevin Brady (Republican, Te xas) and Doris Matsui (Democrat, California) and Senators John Kerry 
(Democrat, Massachusetts) and Lamar Alexander (Republican, Tennessee) introduced companion legislation to fix this problem —H.R. 
1845/S. 960, the Medicare IVIG Access Act. Baxter supported  this bill, and lobbied for its enactment throughout 2012.  
On January 10, 2013, the Medicare IVIG Access Act was signed into law, creating a demonstration program to provide Medicare reimbursement for the nursing services and supplies associated with home  infusion of IVIG therapy for up to 4,000 PID patients. The 
program is authorized for three years.  
Educating Health Policy Makers in Washington, D.C. about Benefits of Home Dialysis  
Baxter supported and participated in the inaugural National Summit on Hom e Dialysis Policy in Washington, D.C. in March 2012, to 
further the dialogue about the benefits of home dialysis for those with end stage renal disease. Home dialysis, including per itoneal 
dialysis and home hemodialysis, are alternatives to in -center treat ment, which generally requires patients to visit a clinic three times a 
week. Despite the widely accepted and well -documented benefits of home dialysis —improved outcomes associated with more 
consistent treatments, enhanced patient satisfaction, improved qu ality of life and lower costs compared to in -center treatment —
approximately ten percent of U.S. dialysis patients received treatment at home in 2012.2 
More than 50 patients, clinicians, industry representatives and policymakers assembled at the summit to identify common conce rns and 
opportunities to drive appropriate utilization of home dialysis and identify pathways for collaborative action. The group a ddressed 
challenges in education, training and implementation of home dialysis; the national reimbursement system; quality measures; a nd 
innovation related to the modality. Representatives from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, United States Renal Data 
System, Department of Veterans Affairs and the Food and Drug Administration were among those who attended.  
One result of the summit was the launch of the Alliance for Home Dialysis, created as a way for the organizations involved to  continue 
their advocacy efforts, develop policy recommendations, and advance thought leadership surrounding home dialysis. Following the  
summit, the alliance developed a Natio nal Summit on Home Dialysis Policy Report of the Delegates , outlining the group’s policy 
priorities and objectives.  
Partnerships  
Through its public policy efforts worldwide, Baxter develops unique public -private collaborations to increase patient access to critical 
therapies.  
Entering into Agreement with Sanguin to Support Demand for Plasma -Derived Therapies 	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/index.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       5 
Baxter uses plasma to produce medications that treat immune disorders, hemophilia, trauma and other critical conditions. In J uly 2012, 
Baxter entered into a manufacturing services agreement with Stichting Sanquin Bloedvoorziening (Sanquin Bloo d Supply Foundation), a 
not-for-profit organization responsible for the blood supply in the Netherlands, to provide additional plasma fractionation capacity in 
support of global demand for Baxter’s plasma -derived therapies. Baxter will pay Sanquin a fixed fee to fractionate plasma used for 
these medications; the partnership is expected to result in up to 1.6 million liters of incremental plasma fractionation capa city annually. 
The initial term of the agreement is 10 years, with production beginning in 2014 , and Sanquin reaching the full 1.6 million liters annually 
by the end of 2016.  
Partnering with Brazil to Increase Access to Therapy for Hemophilia A Patients  
It is estimated that more than 10,000 people in Brazil are living with hemophilia A, and today t he vast majority are treated with plasma -
derived factor VIII therapy.3 To provide these patients with greater access to recombinant factor VIII (rFVIII) therapy, Baxter entered into 
an exclusive 20 -year partnership in November 2012 with Hemobrás (Empresa B rasileira de Hemoderivados e Biotechnologia), a public 
company dedicated to creating greater self -sufficiency in the production of life -saving therapies for people in Brazil with hemophilia, 
primary immunodeficiency disease, cirrhosis, severe burns, cancer and AIDS. Through this partnership, Baxter will be the exclusive 
provider of Brazil's recombinant FVIII treatment over the next 10 years while the companies work together on the technology t ransfer to 
support development of local manufacturing capacity by  Hemobrás.  
Advancing Private-Public Partnerships in Vietnam to Ensure Sustainable Healthcare  
To address access to quality healthcare solutions that support the Vietnamese government’s healthcare objectives, Baxter’s Vi etnam 
team participated in the "Work shop on Public Private Partnerships in the Health Sector” in December 2012. Attended by over 160 
representatives from the healthcare sector and officials from the Ministry of Health (MOH), other government agencies, the U. S. 
Embassy and healthcare industry  companies, this forum encouraged dialogue between the public and private sector to strengthen the 
healthcare system in Vietnam. It was also the country’s first public -private sector discussion on how both sectors can work together to 
address Vietnam’s evo lving healthcare needs. Baxter participated in conversations about reducing the burden in overcrowded hospitals 
and developing human resources through education and training, as well as developing educational programs that will help prov ide 
access to PD tr eatment and encourage a preventative/prophylactic approach to hemophilia treatment. The company’s Vietnam team 
also sponsored a Leaders’ Dinner that convened guests of honor including co -hosts of the seminar —Dr. Nguyen Thi Kim Tien, 
Vietnam’s Minister of H ealth, and David Shear, U.S. Ambassador to Vietnam.  
1 Report on the endemic burden of healthcare -associated infection worldwide. World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland, 2011. Available at http://whqlibdoc.who.int/publications/2011/9789241501507_eng.pdf .  
2 Neumann, Mark. "Some bright spots for home dialysis." Nephrology News & Issues. (July 13, 2012). Web. http://www.nephrology -digital.com/201208/201208/5/0  
3 Federação Brasileira de Hemofilia. Accessed on: 10 March 2011. Available at: http://www.hemofiliabrasil.org.br  
2012 Political Contributions Report  
Baxter respects local political customs and obeys all laws about engaging in the political process everywhere it operates. Th e 
company’s Code of Conduct , which sets forth the core principles that govern Baxter’s business practices, contains a section on Public 
Affairs and Political Activ ities, including rules governing participation in the political process.  
The Public Policy Committee of Baxter's Board of Directors oversees Baxter's government affairs program and Political Action 
Committee, BAXPAC, reviewing annually political contributi ons, positions on pending legislation, and other political advocacy initiatives.  
This Political Contributions Report provides information about corporate contributions made in the United States by Baxter as  well as 
contributions made by BAXPAC. It also inc ludes information about Baxter's lobbying expenses and membership in trade and industry 
groups.  
• Corporate  Contributions  
• Baxter  Political  Action  Committee  
• Lobbying Expenses  
• Certain  Memberships  
Corporate Contributions 
The U.S. Supreme Court decision in the Citizens United case in 2010 broadened the ability of corporations to make independent  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/index.html  
http://www. sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/political -contribution -report.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       6 
political expenditures in the context of federal elections (although not the ability to make direct contributions to federal candi dates). 
However, Baxter has not made independent political expenditures or contemplated this form of activity, and does not anticipat e that the 
decision will impact how the company contributes or engages in the political process. Baxter strives to make con tributions to candidates 
who champion and protect the legislative interests of the company, its employees and patients, without regard for the private  political 
preferences of Baxter’s officers and executives. In 2012, the company did not participate in an y ballot measures and it is not generally 
Baxter’s practice to do so.  
In the United States, Baxter contributed $22,000 to state candidates in 2012 after approval from the BAXPAC Board. U.S. law d oes not 
allow companies to make contributions to federal ca ndidates. As discussed below, contributions to federal candidates may be made by 
BAXPAC.  
Baxter’s Corporate Contributions to U.S. State Candidates, 2012 
Member  District Party  Amount 
Arkansas  
Dismang, Jonathan S28 R $250 
Hopper, Karen H100 R $250 
Irvin, Missy S18 R $250 
Key, Johnny S17 R $250 
Leding, Greg H86 R $250 
Lindsey, Uvalde S4 D $250 
Teague, Larry S10 D $250 
Tyler, Linda S35 D $250 
Williams, Darrin H36 D $250 
Wood, Jon S7 R $250 
Florida  
Cocoran, Richard H37 R $500 
Crisafulli, Steve H51 R $500 
Latvala, Jack S20 R $500 
Robertson, Ken H75 R $500 
Georgia  
Channell, Mickey H116 R $750 
Grant, Johnny S25 R $250 
Holt, Doug  H112 R $250 
Jeffares, Rick S17 R $250 
Jerguson, Sean H22 R $750 
Williamson, Bruce H111 R $250 
Illinois  
Althoff, Pamela J. S32 R $250 
Bellock, Patricia H47 R $500 
Cole, Sandy H262 R $250 
Cross, Tom HD84 R $1,250  
Cullterton, John J. SD6 D $1,500  
Duffy, Dan  S26 R $250 	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/political -contribution -report.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       7 
Feigenholtz, Sara H12 D $750 
Harmon, Don SD39 D $650 
Hunter, Mattie SD33 D $250 
Link, Terry S30 D $500 
Madigan, Michael J.  H22 D $1,500  
Mayfield, Rita  HD60 D $250 
Murphy, Matt S27 R $500 
Osmond, JoAnn H61 R $250 
Pritchard, Robert H70 R $250 
Radogno, Christine S41 R $1,250  
Righter, Dale S55 R $250 
Steans, Heather S7 D $750 
Sullivan, Ed H51 R $250 
Syverson, Dave S35 R $250 
Trotter, Donne E. S17 D $850 
Mississippi 
Bryan, Hob S7 D $500 
Burton, Terry S31 R $500 
Frierson, Herb H106 R $500 
Mims, Sam H97 R $500 
Reeves, Terry Lt. Gov R $500 
Total   $22,000  
 
Baxter's Corporate Contributions to 501(C)(4) and 527 Organizations, 2012 
Membership in 501(c)(4) and 527 organizations is another avenue through which Baxter engages to advance the company's 
interests and those of its patients.  
Baxter contributed the following to these 501 (c)(4) organizations during 2012.  
The Ripon Society  $25,000 
Third Way  $32,500 
Total*  $57,500 
Through its  GAPP team, Baxter contributed to the following 527 organizations during 2012.  
Democratic Governors Association  $25,000 
Republican Governors Association  $25,000 
Total*  $50,000 
*Only includes organizations for which GAPP pays the annual dues.  
 	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/political -contribution -report.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       8 
Baxter Political Action Committee  
Eligible U.S. employees can make voluntary individual contributions to Baxter's Political Action Committee, BAXPAC, to suppor t U.S. 
federal and state candidates. BAXPAC is overseen by the BAXPAC Chairman, Vice Chair, and Treasurer/Secretary, as well as its  
Contribution Advisory Board. All BAXPAC officers and members of the Contribution Advisory Board are Baxter employees from var ious 
business groups, regions and franchises. BAXPAC operates in accordance with all relevant federal and state laws. More informa tion 
about these laws and regulations is available on the Federal Election Commission website . BAXPAC contributes to candidates who 
champion and protect the legislative interests of Baxter, its employees and its patients . Contributions by BAXPAC are made without 
regard for the private political preferences of Baxter’s officers and executives. BAXPAC made $165,000 in contributions in 20 12.  
 
BAXPAC Contributions to U.S. Federal and State Candidates, 2012 
Member  Federal 
House  Federal 
Senate State 
Candidate District Party  Amount 
Arizona 
Crawford, Eric 
Alan X    AR1 R $5,000  
Pryor, Mark 
Lunsford  X  AR D $1,000  
California 
Bass, Karen X   CA37 D $2,500  
Becerra, 
Xavier  X   CA34 D $1,000  
Campbell, 
John B.T. X   CA45 R $1,000  
Eshoo, Anna X   CA18 D $2,000  
Roybal-Allard, 
Lucille X   CA40 D $1,000  
Colorado  
DeGette, 
Diana X   CO1 D $2,500  
Illinois  
Dold, Robert X   IL10 R $3,500  
Shimkus, 
John X   IL15 R $1,000  
Indiana  
Coats, Daniel  X  IN R $2,000  	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/political -contribution -report.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       9 
Young, Todd 
Christopher X   IN9 R $5,000  
Louisiana  
Richmond, 
Cedric X   LA2 D $1,000  
Maryland  
Van Hollen, 
Christopher X   MD8  D $3,500  
Michigan 
Benishek, 
Daniel X   MI1 R $2,000  
Camp, Dave X   MI4 R $3,000  
Dingell, John X   MI2 D $1,000  
Mississippi 
Thompson, 
Bennie X   MS2 D $1,000  
Montana 
Baucus, Max  X  MT D $2,000  
New Jersey 
Pallone, Frank X   NJ6 D $1,000  
New York  
Hochul, 
Kathleen X   NY27 D $3,000  
Ohio 
Amstutz, Ron   X OH3 R $1,000  
Pennsylvania 
Adolph Jr., 
William    X PA165 R $500 
Baker, 
Matthew    X PA68 R $500 
Costa Jr., Jay   X PA43 R $500 	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/political -contribution -report.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       10 
Dermody, 
Frank   X PA33 D $500 
Hughes, 
Vincent   X PA7 D $500 
Smith, Samuel   X PA66 R $1,000  
Turzai, 
Michael   X PA28 R $1,000  
South Carolina 
Clyburn, 
James X   SC6 D $5,000  
Texas  
Burgess, 
Michael X   TX26 R $4,000  
Utah 
Hatch, Orrin  X  UT R $4,000  
Matheson, 
James X   UT4 D $1,000  
Washington 
Larsen, Rick X   WA2 D $5,000  
Wisconisn  
Kind, Ron X   WI3 D $5,000  
Wyoming  
Barrasso, 
John Anthony  X  WY R $1,000  
Total      $83,000  
 
 
Other BAXPAC Contributions. 201 2 
Payee  Amount  
Building Relationships in Diverse Geographic Environments PAC  $5,000 
Congressional Black Caucus PAC  $5,000 
Committee for Hispanic Causes/Building Our Leadership Diversity PAC (CHC BOLD PAC)  $5,000 
Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee $15,000 
Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee  $5,000 	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/political -contribution -report.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       11 
Every Republican is Crucial  $5,000 
Kidney Care Partners (KCP) PAC  $2,000  
National Republican Congressional Committee  $5,000 
National Republican Senatorial Committee  $15,000 
New Democrat Coalition PAC  $5,000 
Republican National Committee  $15,000 
Total  $82,000 
Lobbying Expenses 
In 2012, Baxter spent approximately $2,590,000 on federal lobbying -related activities in the United States, to promote policies that 
support the company's objectives. This amount includes the salaries and overhead expenses of Baxter employees dedicated to this 
area, the value of time and related expenses of internal partners (such as corporate counsel), payments to external consultan ts and 
lobbyists, and trade association dues used for lobbying. Baxter adheres to all federal, state and local laws to ensure compliance in this 
area. Outside the United States, Baxter also complies with all applicable laws and regulations. Baxter's federal lobbying dat a was 
reviewed by an external firm.  
Certain Memberships  
Baxter maintains memberships in numerous industry and tr ade groups including organizations that engage in lobbying activities. The 
table below includes the amount that Baxter has been notified has been spent on federal -related lobbying activity during 2012 by any 
organization to which to the best of its knowledge Baxter paid more than $50,000 in dues or otherwise during the year. Baxter believes 
that membership in these organizations is generally consistent with the company's interests as well as those of its sharehold ers, 
customers and patients. Even when Baxte r does not share all of the views of one of these organizations, it believes that membership is 
worthwhile because such organizations encourage dialogue on important policy issues and help to move the industry to a consen sus in 
these areas.  
 
Federal -Relat ed Lobbying Expenditures by Certain U.S. -based Trade Associations, 2012* 
AdvaMed  $26,040 
Alliance for Home Dialysis Policy  $18,500 
Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO)  $120,450 
GPhA Generic Pharmaceutical Association $25,000  
Healthcare Institute of New Jersey  $12,500 
Kidney Care Partners (KCP) $14,490 
Plasma Protein Therapeutics Association (PPTA)  $10,555.50 
US ASEAN Council  $200 
US India Business Council  $5,000 
*Only includes groups of which GAPP is aware. These dues are paid by Baxter’s businesses and not by GAPP.  
View Baxter's 2011 Political Contributions Report, 2010 Political Contributions Report, 2009 Political Contributions Report a nd 2008 
Political Contributions Report .	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2012 -report/affinity -advocacy.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       12 
Case Study: Baxter Advocates on Behalf of Diverse 
Patient Populations 
Baxter engages in a variety of advocacy and community outreach efforts throughout 
the year to educate policymakers on issues affecting patients. These efforts also 
provide opportunities outside of the office for Bax ter employees to voluntarily engage 
and raise awareness of healthcare disparities and diseases that disproportionately 
impact the populations they represent.  
"It is a rewarding experience to see the positive impact Baxter is making on patients," 
said Charl es Cush, senior director of marketing, who served breakfast to attendees of 
the 42nd Annual Legislative Conference for the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) 
held in September 2012. "It's one of the reasons I came to work at Baxter."  
Cush was one of several  Baxter African -American Leadership Council Business 
Resource Group (BRG) members who attended the conference, where the company 
sponsored the CBC Spouses' Community Breakfast and Health Fair. Delegates from Baxter served breakfast to veterans alongside el ected officials and manned a table 
with information about end -stage renal disease. The event enabled the group to 
engage with individuals who are often at risk for significant health issues, including diabetes, which can be a precursor to end -stage renal d isease. Members of Baxter's 
African -American Leadership Council also took part in the annual policy briefing and attended various sessions concerning healthcare 
issues.  
That same month, members of the Latinos@Baxter BRG flew to Washington, D.C. during His panic Heritage Month to take part in the 
35th Annual Hispanic Heritage Month Gala and Latino Brunch hosted by the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute Inc. (CHCI),  of 
which the company was a sponsor. Baxter delegates met with elected officials affiliate d with CHCI and the National Association of 
Latino Elected and Appointed Officials and discussed healthcare issues and legislation important to patients. The Latinos@Bax ter BRG 
also took part in the 2012 CHCI High School Latino Leaders in D.C. program, in which they sponsored four Chicago -area high school 
students on a week -long program in the capital to develop leadership skills, meet with leaders, visit historic sites and become inspired 
to impact their own communities.  
"Being able to take part in those d iscussions on behalf of the Latino patients that Baxter impacts was really meaningful for us," said 
Francisco Rausa, III, senior manager of research at Baxter, who attended with other members of Latinos@Baxter. "We were honor ed to 
have been able to help ma ke the D.C. experience possible for emerging young leaders as well." 
Baxter's business resource groups, such as Latinos@Baxter and the African American Leadership Council, support the company's 
business goals and aim to enhance personal growth and multicul tural understanding, while strengthening relationships among 
employees and with customers and community partners. Baxter has five business resource groups —which also include the Asian 
Leadership Network, Baxter Equality Network and Building Women Leaders —and more are in development.  
Advocates from Baxter's Building Women Leaders BRG attended the fourth annual Healthcare Summit in November 2012, hosted by 
the Women in Government (WIG). With participants that included 45 female women state legislators from a round the country, the 
summit focused on state implementation of federal healthcare reform; increased awareness about diabetes, oncology an d rare 
diseases; and chronic disease prevention and management. Baxter's delegates attended sessions about issues of high interest to the 
company and its patients, including women's health, the changing role of pharmacists, transmission of hospital acquired infec tions, and 
policies and legislation related to Alzheimer's disease.  
"This was a great learning experience for  me and definitely made me have a stronger appreciation for the role that healthcare can play 
in government, beyond actual legislation," said Melanie Neal, director of operations in the United States for Baxter's Medical Products 
business.  
Finishing off th e year with a trip to the capital in December, delegates from Baxter's Asian Leadership Network visited with seven Asian 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2012 -report/affinity -advocacy.html  
© Copyright 2013  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved       13 
American and Pacific Islander Congressional Caucus leaders. They addressed healthcare issues affecting the Asian American 
community, in cluding access; language barriers and disparities in care; increasing awareness of and screening for hepatitis B, hepatitis 
C, tuberculosis and HIV; and enhancing data collection for Asian groups. As a result of the visit, the Asian Leadership Netwo rk 
identified opportunities to continue engagement with stakeholders including policy makers, patients and physicians and shared 
feedback with Baxter business leaders regarding potential collaboration opportunities.  
"It was wonderful to connect with the Asian Ame rican and Pacific Islander (API) policy makers and leaders," said Michelle Luo, director, 
market access for Baxter's Medical Products business. "Some of them even commented that we were the first company to do so."  
 