Making 
a Meaningful Difference 
BAXTER 2015 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY2      BAXTER 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
Corporate 
Responsibility 
at BaxterProduct  
StewardshipEmployeesEthics and  
ComplianceSustainable  
Manufacturing  
and OperationsAccess to
HealthcareCommunity
EngagementPublic
PolicySupply 
Chain
Corporate Responsibility at Baxter
FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND CEO
Baxter is in the midst of an unprecedented 
transformation. In 2015 we executed the successful spinoff of our BioScience business, emerging with a sharpened focus on our historic core in hospital products and renal care. A year later this transformation 
continues, as we implement a well-defined strategy to 
accelerate performance for our broad stakeholder base in line with our aspirations as a healthcare leader.
Amidst the changes, certain fundamentals remain 
absolute. Among them are our mission to save and sustain lives and our passion for healthcare innovation. 
Also fundamental is our commitment to creating lasting social, environmental and economic value for the communities we serve worldwide.
This report illustrates the spectrum of ways this commitment was advanced over the course of 2015. As just one 
example, Baxter remained vigilant in response to global healthcare crises and natural disasters, reacting quickly to 
the earthquake in Nepal and the floods in Chennai, India, working with our humanitarian aid partners AmeriCares 
and Direct Relief to ensure our products were first on scene through airlifts of donated medical supplies. We also pursued new avenues to drive the efficiency of our operations while limiting environmental impact, advanced our award-winning inclusion and diversity initiatives, helped expand global access to care, and progressed on many other fronts consistent with our corporate responsibility priorities.
Looking ahead, we must ensure the continued alignment of these priorities with our evolving scope and strategic 
direction. We believe that execution of our corporate responsibility priorities goes hand-in-hand with reinforcing 
our trajectory as a successful and sustainable business enterprise.
We continue to believe that our ultimate statement of corporate responsibility is embedded in our mission to save 
and sustain lives. The global impact of our products, presence and activities will always be appraised through this 
lens, as we stay focused on making a difference for patients, clinicians, communities, employees and numerous other constituencies worldwide. 
José (Joe) Almeida
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
September 2016
José (Joe) Almeida, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
TABLE OF CONTENTS
2 Corporate Responsibility  
 at Baxter
8 Product Stewardship
11 Employees
15 Access to Healthcare
17 Community Engagement
19 Ethics and Compliance
20 Sustainable Manufacturing  
 and Operations
24 Supply Chain
25 Public Policy
26 Appendix3      BAXTER 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
Corporate 
Responsibility 
at BaxterProduct  
StewardshipEmployeesEthics and  
ComplianceSustainable  
Manufacturing  
and OperationsAccess to
HealthcareCommunity
EngagementPublic
PolicySupply 
Chain
COMPANY PROFILE
Baxter International Inc. provides a broad 
portfolio of essential renal and hospital products, including home, acute and in-center dialysis; sterile intravenous (IV) solutions; infusion systems and devices; parenteral nutrition; biosurgery products 
and anesthetics; and pharmacy automation, software 
and services. The company’s global footprint and the critical nature of its products and services play a key role in expanding access to healthcare in emerging and developed countries. Baxter’s employees worldwide are building upon the company’s rich heritage of medical breakthroughs to advance the next generation of healthcare innovations that enable patient care. 
Baxter operates two business segments:
HOSPITAL PRODUCTS
Baxter’s Hospital Products business manufactures 
products used in the delivery of fluids and drugs to 
patients across the continuum of care. These include 
IV and other sterile solutions and administration sets, premix drugs and drug-reconstitution systems, IV nutrition products, infusion pumps, biosurgery products and inhalation anesthetics. The business also provides products and services related to pharmacy compounding, drug formulation and packaging technologies.
RENAL PRODUCTS
Baxter’s Renal portfolio addresses the needs of patients with kidney failure or kidney disease with a comprehensive range of therapeutic options across home, in-center and hospital settings, providing individualized care. The portfolio includes 
innovative technologies and therapies for peritoneal 
dialysis, hemodialysis, continuous renal replacement therapy, multi-organ extracorporeal support therapy and additional dialysis services.Baxter's products, facilities and operations are subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and other regulatory authorities worldwide. These agencies administer requirements covering the testing, safety, efficacy, manufacturing, labeling, promotion and 
advertising, distribution and post-market surveillance of 
Baxter's products. See the 
Quality  and Patient Safety  
sections for more information about complying with government regulations.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 
APPROACH  
Corporate responsibility is a core element of Baxter’s  
vision to achieve top quartile in quality and patient safety, industry-leading performance and to be a best place to work. The company’s corporate responsibility initiatives support its mission to apply 
innovative science to develop hospital and renal 
products that save and sustain patients' lives. 
Baxter's Corporate Responsibility Council, composed of executives and subject matter experts from across the company, oversees Baxter’s strategy and leads its efforts to integrate corporate responsibility into the business. The council's role is to:
• Set and adjust the company's corporate 
responsibility strategy as needed based on assessment of global challenges, opportunities and emerging issues;
• Establish and implement the company’s corporate 
responsibility 
priorities and goals , track progress, 
drive organizational accountability and recognize 
individual and team accomplishments;
• Provide annual updates on Baxter’s corporate responsibility programs to the Public Policy Committee of the company’s Board of Directors; and
• Solicit stakeholder feedback and review stakeholder inquiries as appropriate.In 2015, Baxter conducted a materiality assessment 
to assess its priority corporate responsibility issues (see 
Baxter 2020 Corporate Responsibility Priorities 
and Goals ). The process included the following inputs:
• Mapped Baxter's new value chain following the 
spin-off of Baxalta Inc., identifying environmental, 
social and governance impacts, and stakeholders;
• Interviews with internal subject matter experts and executives;
• Interviews with external stakeholders, including customers, suppliers and partners, governmental agencies, investors, sustainability experts and 
industry and patient organizations;  
• Review of third-party research and source 
information such as company policies, culture survey responses, Baxter’s annual report and 
proxy statement, the company's 2015 corporate 
responsibility priorities and goals, and CDP and Dow Jones Sustainability Index submissions; and 
• Discussion of results with Ceres coalition members.
This process prioritized Baxter's corporate 
responsibility initiatives, which the company has focused on for many years, and informed the development of Baxter's 2020 corporate responsibility priorities and goals. As described in 
this report, Baxter has well-developed policies and 
programs to address many of these areas, and will continue to expand these efforts moving forward. 
Priorities and Goals
In 2008, Baxter set 2015 corporate responsibility priorities and goals which stated the company’s expected long-term progress. In the pages that follow, Baxter reports final progress against those goals. Additionally, in 2016 Baxter established its 
2020 corporate responsibility priorities and goals 
which outline the company’s path forward.4      BAXTER 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
Corporate 
Responsibility 
at BaxterProduct  
StewardshipEmployeesEthics and  
ComplianceSustainable  
Manufacturing  
and OperationsAccess to
HealthcareCommunity
EngagementPublic
PolicySupply 
Chain
Baxter 2015 Corporate Responsibility Priorities and GoalsACHIEVED NOT ACHIEVED
Baxter Will Promote Ethical Conduct and Legal Compliance
Continue to champion internal and industrywide ethical sales and marketing 
practices by: 
•  Implementing Baxter’s enhanced U.S. Healthcare Compliance Program 
and International Anticorruption Program within the company; and 
•   Working with U.S. and international trade associations, nongovernmental organizations and governments to harmonize and enforce standards on 
financial interactions with healthcare providers that allow for appropriate 
education, research and dialogue on products and services and discourage improper incentives.Baxter initiated the worldwide launch of its Global Interactions Policy with the medical community and government officials. In the United States, the company also introduced the iInteract tool, the first fully integrated technology 
platform to provide greater transparency and increased reporting for financial interactions with the medical 
community. This tool is used to receive external requests for grants, general support, contributions and activities related to clinical research and medical education.  
Baxter supported Mexican Association of Innovative Medical Devices Industries as co-host of the AdvaMed Latin America Compliance Conference in Mexico City to foster ethics and compliance standards in the Mexican health sector. Create and sustain an inclusive culture where diverse ideas, backgrounds, experiences and perspectives are respected and valued. The company named its Corporate Vice President-International the Chair of Baxter's Global Inclusion Council 
composed of nearly 15 business leaders who work to advance inclusion and diversity across the organization. The 
company launched the Inclusion Impact series for managers in 2015 to build inclusive capabilities. Baxter's eight Business Resource Groups began 2015 by hosting Baxter Inclusion Month to showcase diversity-and inclusion-related programs and opportunities available to employees. Baxter Will Promote an Inclusive and Diverse Workplace2015 PROGRESS STATUS GOALOur People
Create a new business model to improve  access to healthcare for the 
“base of the pyramid” (developing economies). 
Work with donor partners to develop and implement a strategic product donation plan beginning in 2010 that includes: being the 
first on the scene following disasters and tragedies, contributing 
most needed products to stabilize supply, and contributing most needed products in least developed and developing economies.  Baxter continued innovating to expand access to healthcare in China to address the needs of patients and healthcare providers in that market. The company also developed 10-year strategies for accelerating growth in and increasing 
access to its renal, fluid systems and integrated pharmacy solutions franchises.  
Baxter continued its work with AmeriCares and Direct Relief to pre-position products for emergencies and to meet 
ongoing needs in underserved communities with contributions of more than $8 million in products to 61 countries. 
During the year, the company also established a manufacture-to-donate process that integrates the critical needs lists of partner organizations into Baxter’s manufacturing and shipping processes twice annually.  Baxter Will Strengthen Access to Healthcare through Product Development and Strategic Product Donations 
Facilitate learning of math and science through biotechnology education for Chicago Public Schools’ teachers and students, and 
partner with other educational organizations to provide similar 
opportunities in other locations. Baxter Will Strengthen the Company’s Commitment to Education, Especially Math and Science
In the 2014-2015 school year, Baxter’s Science@Work: Expanding Minds with Real-World Science program, a multiyear commitment to Chicago Public Schools, reached nearly 20,000 students and more than 175 teachers 
through in-depth biotechnology teacher training and module lesson plans. This increased the program’s total reach to 
152,000 students and more than 1,700 teachers since 2008. Implement best-in-class programs designed to protect the safety and improve the health of employees that result in performance in the top 
three of industry peers. In a comparison of 14 healthcare companies,
1 Baxter’s cases with days lost rate ranked fourth in 2014, the most recent 
year industry benchmarking data were available. 
Baxter's recordable case rate improved by 17% in 2015 compared with 2014. During that same time, its cases with 
days lost rate worsened by 25% and its days lost rate worsened by 19%.Baxter Will Promote a Safe and Healthy Workplace
2015 PROGRESS STATUS GOALOur World5      BAXTER 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
Corporate 
Responsibility 
at BaxterProduct  
StewardshipEmployeesEthics and  
ComplianceSustainable  
Manufacturing  
and OperationsAccess to
HealthcareCommunity
EngagementPublic
PolicySupply 
Chain
2015 PROGRESS STATUS GOALOur Operations & Products
Implement two projects to help protect vulnerable watersheds or provide 
communities with enhanced access to clean water.  
Reduce total waste generation 30% indexed to revenue from 2005 baseline. 
Eliminate 5,000 metric tons of packaging material from products sent to 
customers from 2007 baseline. Reduce water usage 35% indexed to revenue from 2005 baseline. To help achieve this, by 2010 evaluate potentially vulnerable watersheds associated with Baxter 
facilities and establish aggressive water conservation goals for high-risk areas.  Baxter Will Drive Reductions in its Natural Resource Use
Baxter used 7,967 trillion joules of energy, a reduction of 21% indexed to revenue compared with 2005, and an 
absolute increase of 6%.2 The company’s absolute energy usage decreased 1% from 2014 to 2015. 
The company used 12.0 million cubic meters of water, a reduction of 33% compared with 2005, indexed to revenue, and an absolute decrease of 10%.
2 Baxter’s absolute water consumption decreased by nearly 5% from 2014 to 2015.
Baxter completed its fourth year of working with the Philippine Center for Water and Sanitation to improve water, sanitation and hygiene conditions for the nearly 1,500 inhabitants of Sitio Silangan, a community within walking distance of the 
company’s manufacturing facility in Canlubang, Philippines. Baxter also completed its second year of working with Sarar 
Transformación SC to implement a community water project near Baxter’s facility in Cuernavaca, Mexico. 
Baxter generated 55,280 metric tons of waste (including 52,000 metric tons nonhazardous and 3,280 metric tons regulated), a decrease of 20% compared with 2005, indexed to revenue, and an absolute increase of 8%.
2 Baxter is 
piloting a zero waste-to-landfill initiative and plans to expand the program globally.  
Since 2007, Baxter has implemented projects that have reduced the amount of packaging sent to customers by nearly 6,050 metric tons, exceeding its goal. Moving forward, the company will continue its work on packaging reduction projects.Reduce energy usage 30% indexed to revenue from 2005 baseline. Reduce greenhouse gas emissions 45% indexed to revenue from 2005 baseline. Baxter’s net GHG emissions from operations equaled 554,000 metric tons carbon dioxide equivalent, a 40% reduction compared with 2005 indexed to revenue, and an absolute decrease of 19%.
2 This includes emissions from 
Baxter-operated facilities and vehicles, as well as the subtraction of purchased renewable energy certificates and 
carbon offsets. In reporting progress to 2015 goals, Baxter did not include Gambro sites.
Twenty-four percent of Baxter’s energy use for operations was from renewable sources, exceeding the company’s 
2015 goal. Biomass fuel for boilers at four company locations represented 10% of total energy use and the renewable 
energy component of purchased electricity and renewable energy certificates together represented 14%. On-site geothermal, solar photovoltaic and solar hot water systems contributed a small amount to the total.Increase total facility energy usage of renewable power to 20% (of total). Baxter Will Drive Reductions in its Carbon Footprint
Identify new opportunities to replace, reduce and refine (3Rs) the use of animal testing. Further sustainable product design by identifying and minimizing life cycle 
impacts and proactively eliminating or minimizing known substances of 
concern in new products and packaging as feasible.Baxter Will Drive Enhanced Product Stewardship
Baxter updated and expanded its Product Sustainability Review assessment, which the company conducts during 
product development to assess environmental, health and safety; sustainability; and regulatory considerations and 
requirements across the value chain. Using life cycle assessment (LCA), the company determined that a new pulp 
packaging insert sourced from 100% post-industrial waste in Baxter’s Spectrum Infusion System packaging will reduce associated GHG emissions by 58%. Baxter also expanded its collaboration with graduate students from the University of Wisconsin-Madison, who conducted an LCA of energy use across Baxter’s Renal Therapy Services in Colombia. 
Baxter is committed to enhancing animal welfare through the 3Rs: replacement, reduction and refinement. In 2015, the 
company enhanced its focus on refinement by optimizing study design data, data collection and analysis methods to 
reduce overall animal use in cases where Baxter is required to conduct animal testing.Incorporate sustainable principles into Baxter’s purchasing program.
Reduce Baxter’s U.S. car fleet greenhouse gas emissions per kilometer 
by 20% from 2007 baseline. Baxter supports advanced educational programs for diverse supplier development through the National Minority Supplier Development Council. The company also remains involved in the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) a non-profit 
business membership organization, whose mission is to establish formal industry guidelines about ethics, labor, health 
& safety, the environment and management systems and support suppliers to build capacity to operate in a manner consistent with those expectations. Baxter serves on the PSCI Supplier Capability Building Committee.
Baxter’s U.S. sales car fleet achieved an 11% reduction in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions per kilometer driven compared 
with 2007. The company considers several requirements when purchasing U.S. sales car fleet vehicles, including equipment and materials that sales representatives must carry; weather conditions where sales representatives travel and vehicle 
availability at the time of purchase. Due to these requirements and the underperformance of some vehicles used, the 
company did not achieve its 2015 goal.Baxter Will Drive a Sustainable Supply ChainACHIEVED NOT ACHIEVED6      BAXTER 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
Corporate 
Responsibility 
at BaxterProduct  
StewardshipEmployeesEthics and  
ComplianceSustainable  
Manufacturing  
and OperationsAccess to
HealthcareCommunity
EngagementPublic
PolicySupply 
Chain
Baxter 2020 Corporate Responsibility Priorities and Goals
Baseline is 2015 unless otherwise stated
PRODUCT 
INNOVATION 
Improve 
sustainability  
and performance of products 
 
and servicesSERVING OUR 
COMMUNITIES  
Support 
communities worldwide in enduring ways
INNOVATION 
THAT EXPANDS ACCESS TO CARE
Improve access  
to healthcare for 
the underservedWORKPLACE 
CULTURE
Promote 
inclusion, diversity and employee 
engagementEMPLOYEE 
HEALTH AND SAFETY 
Achieve a zero-
harm  workplace 
and improve employee 
 
well-being
OPERATIONS 
Reduce environmental footprint through increased 
efficiency 
and resource conservationETHICS AND 
COMPLIANCE  
Drive a culture  
of integrity and 
the highest  
ethical behaviorRESPONSIBLE 
PROCUREMENT AND LOGISTICS  
Implement world-
class sustainability 
practices with  
key partners• Enhance product quality and patient safety by achieving a 
15% reduction in product complaints (CIPM) (aggregate)
•  Eliminate or minimize the presence of chemicals of concern (as defined by regulations) in new products
•  Achieve at least 15% material reduction on three therapies/products compared with those currently on the market, without affecting efficacy 
•  Partner with organizations to implement recycling of product waste at hospitals and increase participation from 60 hospitals to 200 
•  Eliminate 3,000 metric tons of packaging material from 
Baxter products shipped to customers 
• Proactively pre-position Baxter’s donated products with donor 
partners, which will enable them to optimally distribute and 
be first on scene to address critical medical needs 
• Establish The Baxter International Foundation Partnership 
Grant program in 2016 to drive increased access to healthcare for an incremental 10,000 patients annually 
• Launch two new emerging-market business models in Baxter’s Renal business
• Reduce total energy and water use and total waste generation by 15% indexed to revenue 
• Reduce absolute GHG emissions by 10% 
• Pursue zero waste-to-landfill by achieving a landfill 
diversion rate of 95% or higher at all manufacturing 
locations • Increase Baxter’s spending with diverse suppliers by 50%, from 4% of relevant spending in 2015 to 6% in 2020
1 
• Expand green transport partnerships with government agencies, nongovernmental organizations and/or private companies from one business region to all business regions globally • Aspire to diversity in leadership at or above benchmarks 
• Achieve an employee engagement rate comparable to top quartile companies as measured by Baxter’s Best Place to Work survey• Achieve Top Quartile in Total Recordable Incident 
Rate (TRIR) among Global companies across all 
industries as measured by ORCHSE
• Reduce employee health risk by increasing participation from 35% to 45% in BeWell@Baxter health promotion program initiatives and by expanding family participation
• Drive highest integrity and compliance to achieve zero government enforcement actions over compliance issues 
• Achieve overall compliance culture scores in the top quartile of general industry benchmarks• Complete two projects, one by 2018, that support access to clean water or enhance sanitation in water-stressed areas where Baxter has an operational presence 7      BAXTER 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
Corporate 
Responsibility 
at BaxterProduct  
StewardshipEmployeesEthics and  
ComplianceSustainable  
Manufacturing  
and OperationsAccess to
HealthcareCommunity
EngagementPublic
PolicySupply 
Chain
Corporate Responsibility Reporting
Baxter is committed to sharing information about its 
corporate responsibility programs, priorities, goals and performance. This report illustrates Baxter’s commitment to sound governance and balanced, transparent disclosure. 
Through the annual reporting process, Baxter 
measures and evaluates its performance, and 
communicates its progress and challenges. This 
engages and educates employees and senior leaders 
on corporate responsibility issues while driving 
performance improvements. 
External Reporting Standards 
External corporate responsibility reporting standards 
promote relevant, transparent, balanced and comparable disclosure of company performance. 
Baxter was one of the first companies to pilot the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines in 1999. It has served as a GRI Organizational Stakeholder since the program's inception in 2004 and belongs to the GRI GOLD Community.
This report aligns with the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting
 Guidelines (undeclared). See the GRI Index  
for detail.
Feedback
Baxter encourages readers of this report to provide comments and suggestions via email: 
 
corporate_responsibility_report@baxter.com.
About This Report
• This report is intended for global use. Please 
consult the appropriate country-specific Baxter website for more information regarding activities 
in that country. Some statements in this report 
about products or procedures may differ from the licensed indications in specific countries. Therefore, always consult the country-specific summary of product characteristics (SPC), package leaflets or instructions for use. For 
more information, please contact a local Baxter 
representative.
• The performance data in this report are from calendar year 2015 unless stated otherwise. Some 
examples and program descriptions include 
information from 2016.
• This report covers Baxter's global operations, including subsidiaries, unless stated otherwise. Environmental, health and safety data include 
joint ventures where Baxter has a controlling 
interest.
• The performance data in this report do not include parts of Baxter that became Baxalta on 
July 1, 2015, unless stated otherwise.
• All currency in this report is in U.S. dollars unless 
stated otherwise.
• Significant restatements of data compared with prior years are noted in the section where they 
appear.
Assurance and Verification
Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. verified Baxter's 
Scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas emissions and assured the following sections of the report:
• Product Stewardship
• Employee Health and Safety content in the 
Employees section
• Baxter World Environment Week content in the Community Engagement section
• Sustainable Manufacturing and Operations section except the 
Environmental Financial Statement
• Supply Chain
See assurance statements in English  and Spanish  
and verification statement in English .Many of the financial data included in the 
Performance Summary are taken from the audited consolidated financial statements contained in the Baxter International Inc. 2015 Annual Report. 
These financial statements are audited by Baxter's 
independent registered public accounting firm, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.8      BAXTER 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
Corporate 
Responsibility 
at BaxterProduct  
StewardshipEmployeesEthics and  
ComplianceSustainable  
Manufacturing  
and OperationsAccess to
HealthcareCommunity
EngagementPublic
PolicySupply 
Chain
Product Stewardship
A significant part of Baxter’s environmental 
footprint is due to the products it designs, manufactures and sells worldwide. Reducing these impacts is a key focus for the company. Baxter’s Product Sustainability Program—in partnership 
with the research and development (R&D), 
marketing and supply chain groups—embeds product stewardship across the company.
Sustainable design innovation offers interrelated 
environmental benefits. For example, Baxter’s Castlebar, Ireland site reduced the size of the small volume parenterals Viaflo product overpouch by 11–13%, helping to decrease 
associated greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 
104 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO
2e) per year. This design change enabled 
corresponding reductions to the product’s carton and shipping container, saving another 110 metric tons of CO
2e emissions annually. More cases can 
fit on each pallet, reducing the number of pallets shipped by more than 5,300 yearly and saving 123 metric tons of wood. These changes also decreased the use of shrink wrap, pallet labels and 
slip sheets by 20%, as well as shipping containers 
and associated CO
2e emissions. Additionally, 
optimizing manufacturing process steps reduced water and energy consumption, saving another 540 metric tons of CO
2e per year. 
For more information about product stewardship at Baxter 
click here .PRODUCT SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 
AND LIFE CYCLE ASSESSMENT
Product Sustainability Review (PSR)—also referred 
to as an environmental, health and safety (EHS) plan—underpins the company’s efforts in sustainable design. This required assessment, or a similar analysis, occurs during the product development 
process for all medical devices, to assess EHS, sustainability, and regulatory considerations and 
requirements across the value chain. This includes high-level review as well as more detailed life cycle assessment (LCA)-based computer modeling of proposed products and may involve comparison with existing products. Key metrics illustrate progress avoiding materials of concern, minimizing customer waste and reducing product carbon footprint. The 
objectives of PSR are to continually improve Baxter’s 
own operations, help meet customer expectations to make products more sustainable and manage regulatory risk.
Since 2005, Baxter has used PSR to evaluate more than 20 medical devices, and currently has multiple devices under assessment. Several PSR reviews have influenced materials selection to avoid chemicals of concern. This is in addition to more than 80 Gambro
1 products 
that have undergone environmental impact analysis since 2010. Eighty-four percent of those Gambro products demonstrated either improved or comparable performance with the products they replaced. 
To supplement and expand on PSR, Baxter uses LCA in select cases to evaluate and improve the environmental performance of its products. During 2015, the company used LCA to calculate the environmental benefits of updating Baxter’s 
Spectrum Infusion System packaging, replacing a 
polyethylene voided foam insert with a new clamshell sourced from 100% post-industrial waste. This insert secures the pumps inside the corrugated box for safe shipping. Transitioning to the new insert will reduce associated GHG emissions by 58%, primary energy 
demand by 85% and smog formation potential by 63%.
MATERIALS USE
Materials use is a key driver of Baxter’s environmental footprint, so decisions about material types and quantities are an important focus for the company. Baxter carefully considers the potential impacts of R&D and DesignIssue Approach
Bioethics Bioethics Policy and position statement
Animal Welfare Baxter Global Animal Welfare Committee >    
 External regulations and voluntary guidelines >   
 Replace, reduce and re/f_ine (3Rs) the use of animal testing
Clinical Trials Clinical Trials Policy > External standards >     
Independent Ethics Committee/Institutional Review Board
Sustainable Design Product Sustainability Review > Life cycle assessment
Materials Use
Materials Selection/ Product Sustainability Review > Supplier screening >   
Reduction/Innovation Evaluation of chemicals of concern > Compliance with    
Restricted Materials RoHS 2 and REACH Directives and other legislation   > Con/f_lict minerals
 
Manufacturing
Resource Efficiency EHS program and goals > ISO 14001 and OHSAS   
Environmental Impacts   18001 management systems and standards > Audits >   
Employee Health  Rigorous compliance > Proactive reduction of natural   
and Safety resource use > Hazard identi/f_ication and risk   
 assessment > “Future State of Safety” task force
Product Transport
Environmental Distribution network optimization > Intermodal transport   
Impacts of Transport > Increased capacity utilization > Technology innovation   
 > Pallet programs > Environmentally responsible   
 transportation partnerships
Packaging
Minimizing Packaging  Materials reduction > Materials substitution 
Materials Selection > Innovative design
 
Product Use
Advertising and Compliance with promotional regulations worldwide   
Promotion > U.S. and international policies for interactions with   
 healthcare practitioners, medical  institutions and
 patient organizations
Safe Handling and Use Safety data sheets > Clinical education
Access to Healthcare Advancing public health > Business model innovation
 > Product donations > The Baxter International
 Foundation awards and grants > Public policy efforts
Product End-of-Life
Reuse (when appropriate)  Product take-back, repair and recycling programs >   
Responsible Recycling  Minimization of customer waste > 
Disposal (as a last resort)  Industry collaborationsQuality and Patient SafetySustainability Across the Product Life Cycle
Bureau Veritas has provided assurance  on the content 
in this section (except the Quality and Product Safety 
subsections).9      BAXTER 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
Corporate 
Responsibility 
at BaxterProduct  
StewardshipEmployeesEthics and  
ComplianceSustainable  
Manufacturing  
and OperationsAccess to
HealthcareCommunity
EngagementPublic
PolicySupply 
Chain
the materials it uses in its products and packaging 
and takes a disciplined approach to identifying materials for possible restriction. 
Baxter has global strategies and programs to help ensure it meets product materials restrictions such as the EU RoHS2 Directive and the EU REACH Regulation among others. The company also works to minimize or avoid the use of conflict minerals in its products 
and reports progress in this area. In addition to 
materials restricted by regulations, Baxter also gathers information about substances such as bisphenol-A 
(BPA) and latex, which are of interest to some customers.
Using materials efficiently is also a priority. Plastic is a major product input and related scrap from manufacturing is the company’s largest waste stream. Therefore, reducing plastic waste and increasing recycling is essential. During 2015, Baxter 
reduced plastic scrap per unit of production by 9%, 
compared with 2011, at 20 sites representing about 75% of the company’s overall plastic volume. For its electronic products, Baxter works to maximize product service life, reuse and recycling. 
Baxter also works to decrease the environmental impact of packaging by reducing the amount used and substituting for environmentally preferable materials. The company implemented projects in 2015 that reduced total packaging on an annualized 
basis by more than 170 metric tons.
2 For example, our 
facility in Cali, Colombia, completed several projects 
that reduced total packaging by 163 metric tons per year. One initiative modified the corner angles and side carton flaps on Renal boxes, saving 20 grams per 
unit and 92 metric tons of packaging material on an 
annualized basis. Total annualized savings across the company since 2007 equals nearly 6,050 metric tons, exceeding Baxter’s goal to eliminate 5,000 metric tons of packaging material from products sent to customers through 2015.
3PRODUCT END-OF-LIFE
Baxter also works with customers, industry peers and recycling and disposal vendors to facilitate the recycling and responsible treatment of disposable medical products. The company belongs to the Healthcare Plastics Recycling Council (HPRC), an 
alliance of global healthcare companies focused on 
the recycling of plastic products used in hospitals. Baxter was one of 11 companies involved with HPRC to develop the Design Guidelines for Optimal Hospital Plastics Recycling, which is primarily intended for product designers and users of disposable medical devices. 
During 2015, a team led by Baxter continued a 
project, launched in 2014, to develop, review and approve guidance for optimizing and managing receiving dock space (typically in high demand 
at hospitals) to support recycling programs. This 
tool covers aspects such as defining a program’s scope, clarifying logistics with recycling vendors, assessing which space best suits program needs and determining how to effectively manage materials for recycling. This resource complements HPRC’s HospiCycle guide , developed to help hospitals 
successfully implement recycling practices. 
In 2013, Baxter established a partnership with the 
Vinyl Council of Australia (VCA) to launch the VCA’s PVC Recovery in Hospitals initiative in Australia. During 2015, the initiative expanded to reach 48 hospitals in Australia (up from 32 in 2014) as well as 12 in New Zealand (up from three the prior year). Together, these locations collect about 10 metric tons of PVC for recycling per month. See Case Study: Baxter Australia Partners in Hospital Waste 
Recycling Program for historical information. 
Baxter is also helping patients who receive regular 
home deliveries of dialysis solutions in Australia to recycle related waste. As of the end of 2015, more than 460 Baxter peritoneal dialysis (PD) home patients participated in the Home PD Recycling Program, which collects and recycles 6 metric tons of plastic and 4 metric tons of cardboard each month 
from patients.
QUALITY
The company’s reputation and ongoing success 
depend on the quality and safety of its products and services, so uncompromising dedication in these areas is a guiding principle of Baxter’s culture. For more information about quality at Baxter click here . 
In 2015, Baxter revised its Quality Policy, to ensure its quality system identifies and corrects issues that arise and maintains ongoing control over related processes. In addition, the company’s Quality, Operations and R&D groups now share common goals, which quickens and strengthens the company’s response to product complaints. These functions collaborate to monitor a variety of quality metrics, including corrective and preventative action (CAPAs), medical device reports (MDRs), recalls and customer complaints. This approach focuses on continual risk 
reduction, clear accountability for product safety and 
quality across the life cycle, ongoing assessment of the quality system and continuous improvement.
Baxter's operations and products are subject to 
extensive regulation by governmental agencies worldwide. View Baxter’s 2015 Annual Report to learn 
more. Further detail about Baxter product recalls can be found on Baxter.com. 
PATIENT SAFETY
Baxter focuses on safety across the product life cycle, from product development and enhancements, to post-market research, pharmacovigilance, device vigilance and other post-market surveillance 10      BAXTER 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
Corporate 
Responsibility 
at BaxterProduct  
StewardshipEmployeesEthics and  
ComplianceSustainable  
Manufacturing  
and OperationsAccess to
HealthcareCommunity
EngagementPublic
PolicySupply 
Chain
activities. For example, Baxter’s pharmacovigilance 
function identifies, confirms, and communicates pre- and post-market drug safety signals to the appropriate stakeholders and authorities. Through product labeling and risk management activities, the 
department works to ensure a positive benefit-risk 
balance of Baxter’s therapeutic drug products and medical devices. The company also collaborates with hospitals to assess their patient safety processes, and partners with customers and third parties to develop patient and clinician educational materials and to raise safety standards. 
The company has continued to expand its portfolio of products and services related to safe drug delivery and improved pharmacy workflow. For example, Baxter’s DoseEdge Pharmacy Workflow Manager is an integrated system that automates the process of 
routing, preparing, inspecting, tracking and reporting on compounded IV and oral liquid doses in U.S. 
hospital pharmacies. The system replaces decades-old paper-based processes and provides transparency, visibility and documentation for the dose preparation and dispensing process. The system’s features include automatic calculations and barcode verification of ingredients, helping to reduce preparation errors and facilitate uniform processes. As of June 2015, users processed more than 86 million orders and 49 million 
error-free patient doses using the DoseEdge system. 
In addition, since the first installation in 2008, the system has identified 2.5 million potential medication errors, 39% of which were incorrect drug selection; all of the errors were caught and corrected prior to dispensing and administration.
Baxter’s broad, growing portfolio of premixed drugs 
and its unique container platform also provide 
hospital pharmacies added safety and efficiency. 
A Baxter employee testing the Sigma Spectrum Infusion System.Hospital pharmacists typically prepare patient drug doses manually. Premixes save the hospital time and reduce the opportunity for both contamination and dosing errors since the drug comes in a ready-to-use format. In 2015, the 
company launched a high-demand cephalosporin 
antibacterial injection as a premixed drug and has other premixes in the pipeline. 
Baxter's IV pump, the Sigma Spectrum Infusion 
System, has automatic safeguards, which reduce infusion errors and enhance clinical efficiencies, instilling confidence to deliver better patient care. Sigma Spectrum is the only smart pump with 
a built-in Dose/Rate Change Error Prevention 
Feature to help clinicians protect high-risk infusions, as well as a customizable Master Drug Library. The library is contained within each pump, providing standard dosing ranges and safety alerts when medical orders fall outside of those ranges. As a result of its ease of use and ability to integrate infusion documentation with a health system’s electronic medical record system, Sigma Spectrum 
pumps are currently in use in four of the top five 
hospital systems in the United States, as ranked by U.S. News & World Report.11      BAXTER 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
Corporate 
Responsibility 
at BaxterProduct  
StewardshipEmployeesEthics and  
ComplianceSustainable  
Manufacturing  
and OperationsAccess to
HealthcareCommunity
EngagementPublic
PolicySupply 
Chain
Employees
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
Baxter is committed to being a best place to work. 
The company remains steadfast in driving a high-performing, inclusive organization where employees pursue rewarding careers, receive competitive compensation and take pride in bringing the 
company’s mission to life. To help employees realize 
their full potential, Baxter offers a wide range of learning and development opportunities.  
The company's inclusive and diverse work 
environment drives innovation; creates trusted partnerships with customers, suppliers and community members; and contributes to the success and sustainability of the business. The 
company works to attract, motivate and retain a 
diverse workforce to better address the needs of its employees, customers, suppliers, patients and caregivers. 
 
Performance and Career Development 
The Performance Review and Career Planning Process, a year-round dialogue, aligns individual and team performance to drive a culture of continuous feedback and deliver business results. Baxter conducts annual performance reviews for 100% of eligible employees. 
Talent Development
Baxter’s talent development philosophy emphasizes a combination of work experiences, feedback and relationships, and training.
The company provides more than 31,000 computer-
based and classroom offerings on topics such as business/financial acumen, leadership, management, product knowledge, Food and Drug Administration 
regulations, Good Manufacturing Practice guidelines 
and job-specific skills. All employees can access online learning, with courses in up to 20 languages. 
In 2015, employees completed more than one million hours of training globally. Baxter’s ongoing talent development efforts contribute to workforce engagement and retention.
Voluntary employee turnover in 2015 was 9.8% 
compared with 9.1% in 2014. For information about 
talent development at Baxter, 
click here . 
Click here  to read a Baxter Perspectives piece on 
workplace mentoring. 
Manager Development
The Management Essentials training series helps participants develop and refine skills in areas such as change management, coaching and feedback, communication, critical thinking and problem solving, and managing conflict and performance. 
During 2015, more than 1,000 managers completed 
at least one Management Essentials course.
During the last few years, the company launched 
the following five Change Capability Building webinars to help prepare employees for the Gambro 
acquisition in 2013 and the Baxalta spinoff in 2015: 
• Change Awareness   Build a common 
understanding of change management
• Employee Engagement   Engage employees 
during times of change
• Change Leadership   Lead employees through 
transitions
• Accelerating Leader Transitions   Support functional managers transitioning to new or modified roles and engaging new team 
members
• Transferring Knowledge   Equip managers with 
processes and tools to accelerate knowledge transfer between the two companies
These webinars, each attended by more than 1,500 
managers, will benefit managers in their current positions and throughout their careers. 
COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS 
Baxter’s global total compensation philosophy is to provide market-competitive pay and benefits while rewarding employees for strong individual and business performance. Click here for more information about compensation and benefits at 
Baxter. Learn more about executive compensation.
GLOBAL INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY 
Baxter is committed to treating all stakeholders with 
dignity and respect and to attracting, motivating and retaining an inclusive and diverse workforce. An inclusive culture and a diverse workforce contribute to the company’s success and sustainability by 
fostering a welcoming, engaging environment where 
employees can be their authentic selves.   12      BAXTER 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
Corporate 
Responsibility 
at BaxterProduct  
StewardshipEmployeesEthics and  
ComplianceSustainable  
Manufacturing  
and OperationsAccess to
HealthcareCommunity
EngagementPublic
PolicySupply 
Chain
Baxter's global inclusion and diversity strategy 
focuses on four key areas:
Global Inclusion Council
Baxter’s Global Inclusion Council (GIC) is chaired by the company’s Corporate Vice President-International, and is composed of approximately fifteen senior leaders from the company's businesses, regions and functions. These leaders serve as the inclusion 
and diversity champions, advocates and thought 
leaders across the company. The GIC is responsible for setting and implementing the company’s global inclusion and diversity strategy and priorities as well as developing and implementing local inclusion plans. In 2015, the GIC identified three global priorities: 
• Advancing women in leadership;
• Building inclusive leadership capabilities; and  
• Enhancing the company’s supplier diversity  
program.  
Global Inclusion and Diversity
WORKPLACERecruit and build diverse and 
high-performing teams that are engaged and innovative.
Advance our inclusive culture 
where every employee feels valued, respected and safe to be their authentic self.
Cultivate strategic and diverse 
supplier and community partnerships.
Consider the needs of our 
customers and their patients in all aspects of our business.WORKFORCE
COMMUNITIES
MARKETPLACEBuilding Cultural Competence
Baxter provides employees with training, tools and resources to build cultural awareness and competence. The company believes this will help employees engage more authentically and effectively with each other and deliver better business results. In addition, many employees work on global teams and are able to personally experience other cultures and build their cultural competence through daily interactions.   
For all managers, supervisors and above, Baxter offers an instructor-led, mandatory workshop called Power of Managing Inclusively (available in 11 languages) and an online learning forum called Inclusion IMPACT!, which provides education about the skills and tools 
needed to create a diverse and inclusive culture.    
 
Business Resource Groups
Baxter’s Business Resource Groups (BRGs) support 
the company’s inclusion and diversity goals, including the recruitment, retention and engagement of diverse employee groups. The groups work to enhance personal growth and multicultural understanding, while strengthening relationships among employees and with business partners, community partners and customers. Learn more about Baxter’s BRGs.  
Click here
 to read a Baxter Perspectives piece on the 
benefits and implications of a four-generation workplace.
Equal Opportunity
As an equal opportunity employer, Baxter prohibits 
employment discrimination or harassment of applicants, employees and third parties due to race, color, religion or religious creed, gender, national origin, ancestry, age, physical or mental disability, 
medical condition, genetic information, marital 
status, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, military or veteran status or any other basis protected by law.See information regarding board diversity on page 17 of the Baxter 2016 Proxy Statement. 
WORKPLACE FLEXIBILITY1  
Baxter appreciates the increasing demands on employees to manage their personal and work lives, and respects the need for different approaches regarding where and when work gets done. Managers and employees share the responsibility 
to achieve a healthy blend of work, personal and 
family life. In 2015, the company worked towards renewing and reinforcing its long-standing commitment in this area. 
Baxter’s overriding philosophy remains the same 
everywhere. The company offers programs and resources to support employees in the United States, and many are offered globally. More than 
40% of eligible employees (regular employees 
working at least 20 hours a week) used one or more of the flexibility programs and benefits in 2015. Baxter estimates conservatively that it realizes nearly $5 of benefit for every dollar invested in flexible programs through reduced absenteeism and enhanced productivity. Learn more about workplace 
flexibility at Baxter. VIEW THE PERFORMANCE SUMMARY FOR MORE DETAIL.13      BAXTER 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
Corporate 
Responsibility 
at BaxterProduct  
StewardshipEmployeesEthics and  
ComplianceSustainable  
Manufacturing  
and OperationsAccess to
HealthcareCommunity
EngagementPublic
PolicySupply 
Chain
EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND SAFETY
As a part of Baxter's aspiration to be a best place to 
work, the company provides a safe workplace and the resources to maintain and improve health and wellness. 
The company tracks and evaluates each major incident that takes place, to fully understand root causes and prevent recurrence. The environmental, health, safety (EHS) and sustainability organization reports employee safety performance to Baxter's 
senior leadership and manufacturing and supply chain 
management monthly. The EHS organization also communicates this performance to the company’s Board of Directors.
Fore more information about employee health and safety at Baxter 
click here . 
Performance
In 2015, Baxter’s recordable case rate improved by 17%, its cases with days lost rate worsened by 25% (excluding Gambro) and its days lost rate worsened by 19% (excluding Gambro), compared with the prior year. In a comparison of 14 healthcare companies,
2 Baxter’s cases 
with days lost rate ranked fourth in 2014, the most recent year industry benchmarking data were available.
Key drivers for the drop in recordable case rate include proactive case management, hazard identification and elimination programs and employee engagement initiatives in each facility in the Asia Pacific region. That region's recordable case rate improved by 44% 
compared with 2014. In North America, the cases 
with days lost rate worsened by 61% due to increased production demands and the days lost rate worsened by 68% due to four major injuries.  Baxter’s overall safety performance since 2005 has improved significantly:
• 49% reduction in recordable case rate
• 45% decrease (excluding Gambro) in cases with 
days lost rate
• 40% reduction in days lost rate (excluding Gambro)
Injuries and Major Incidents
Baxter’s safety function regularly evaluates the main 
sources of work-related injuries at the company to identify trends and opportunities for improvement.   
Major workplace incidents result in an employee 
or contractor being hospitalized overnight (for 
more than observation), sustaining an amputation or dying. When a major incident occurs, facility management conducts an evaluation and follows formal processes and reporting mechanisms to share knowledge throughout the company to prevent recurrence. 
Major incidents decreased at Baxter in 2015 (four 
incidents, none involving contractors) compared 
with 2014 (13 incidents, three involving contractors). 
No fatalities occurred. 
Enhancing Safety Culture and 
Performance
In 2015, based on a review of historical performance 
trends, Baxter strengthened its approach to enhancing its safety culture and performance. This includes focused injury and illness reduction strategies and an emphasis on high-hazard sources.
Click here to read about how employee engagement 
changed the culture of safety in Ireland.VIEW THE PERFORMANCE SUMMARY FOR MORE DETAIL.
Bureau Veritas has provided assurance  on the 
content in this section.
 2005 2013 2014 2015
Recordable Case Rate 1 .52 0.88 0.93 0.77
Cases with Days  0.300 0.096 0.131 0.175
Lost Rate
 * See the Performance Summary  for descriptions of metrics and additional detail. Data includes Gambro.  0.00.51. 01. 52.0Recordable Case Rate and Cases with Days Lost Rate*
Performance Summary
0102030
 2005 2013 2014 2015
Days Lost Rate  7 .08 2.37 3.56 4.92
Restricted Days Rate  22.80 12.66 14.94 17 .32
 * See the Performance Summary  for descriptions of metrics and additional detail. Data includes Gambro.Days Lost Rate and Restricted Days Rate*
Performance Summary14      BAXTER 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
Corporate 
Responsibility 
at BaxterProduct  
StewardshipEmployeesEthics and  
ComplianceSustainable  
Manufacturing  
and OperationsAccess to
HealthcareCommunity
EngagementPublic
PolicySupply 
Chain
The St. Paul, Minnesota, team was named the BeWell@Baxter annual Exercise Challenge "Biggest Mover" in 2015. The team created a walking club 
that hosted multiple walks a day, Zumba classes and the facility's 2nd annual 5K to earn the title. 
FOCUSED INJURY AND ILLNESS REDUCTION 
STRATEGIES
Injury and illness metrics and internal EHS 
audits provide focus for the company’s safety, occupational-health and industrial-hygiene efforts. Baxter continues to target ergonomics and slips, trips and falls as the primary sources of injury 
 
within the company.
EMPHASIS ON HIGH-HAZARD SOURCES
During 2015, the company continued to deploy a system to ensure that all EHS incidents are categorized according to potential severity, and that the company devotes appropriate resources to discover the root causes of incidents, correct 
them and prevent reoccurrence. Baxter provided 
training to enhance incident classification at regional meetings. Health and Wellness Program 
Management and Initiatives
Baxter's occupational health function, working 
in partnership with human resources, develops 
the company’s health and wellness strategies. A 
global team of diverse health professionals helps 
refine and implement these approaches and define 
specific priorities. 
BEWELL@BAXTER
Baxter recognizes that healthy employees are more engaged and productive and less vulnerable 
to safety incidents and injuries. Through BeWell@
Baxter, the company’s global employee health and 
wellness effort, Baxter strives to create a culture that 
promotes work-related and personal health, raises 
awareness about these issues and supports individual 
accountability and engagement. The cornerstone of BeWell@Baxter is the Personal 
Wellness Profile, an online health risk assessment 
that helps employees understand how their lifestyle 
choices, family history and other factors impact their 
health and future health risks. As of the end of 2015, 
nearly 33% of the company’s employees worldwide 
had completed a Personal Wellness Profile.
3 
In 2015, more than 10,000 employees logged over 
125,000 hours of exercise as part of the BeWell@
Baxter Exercise Challenge. Fifty-eight percent of 
employees from 136 facilities worldwide took part in 
“Healthy Eating Month.”
OTHER PROGRAMS AND INITIATIVES
Baxter's occupational health team also works to continually improve the company's performance with 
the following programs and initiatives:
• Flu vaccine   In 2015, Baxter offered free seasonal 
flu vaccinations to 95% of its employees. More 
than 32% of employees were vaccinated. 
Additionally, 2,000 vaccinations were provided to family members. 
• Smoke-free workplaces   The company strengthened its commitment to a smoke-free work environment by reaching a total of 97% of 
Baxter campuses designated as smoke-free in 
2015 (88% including Gambro facilities). 
15      BAXTER 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
Corporate 
Responsibility 
at BaxterProduct  
StewardshipEmployeesEthics and  
ComplianceSustainable  
Manufacturing  
and OperationsAccess to
HealthcareCommunity
EngagementPublic
PolicySupply 
Chain
Access to Healthcare
Access to Baxter’s high-quality, safe products often 
makes the difference between life and death. That is why Baxter, along with its partners, is committed to being first on scene in times of crisis with product and resource donations. The company is dedicated to sustaining 
access to healthcare in communities through public and 
private partnerships and capacity-building grants. 
ADVANCING PUBLIC HEALTH
Baxter supports initiatives that expand availability of its treatments, and the company collaborates with other organizations to advance public health. This includes educating current and future patients worldwide, as well as increasing the capabilities of physicians and 
other healthcare professionals through training. The 
company also enters into public-private partnerships to share best practices in manufacturing and treatment. Additionally, Baxter collaborates with governments, companies and other organizations to influence policies and standards that promote patient access to therapies and products. See 
Public Policy  for more information.For example, the Vietnamese Ministry of Health estimates that 80,000 people in Vietnam have end-stage renal disease (ESRD), yet only 10%–12% receive renal replacement therapy. Further complicating this situation, the incidence of ESRD 
is on the rise due to increasing rates of diabetes 
and hypotension, leading causes of kidney disease. In 2013, Vietnam’s Ministry of Health issued a peritoneal dialysis (PD) Therapy Guideline to enhance the standard of care. In 2015, the Medical Service Administration of the Vietnam Ministry of Health and Baxter’s Vietnam Office signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) that will expand access to and advance standards of care for 
PD patients in that country. 
Vietnam’s national health strategy aims to reduce 
the burden of overcrowded hospitals. The MOU with Baxter supports that objective by establishing standards of care, building awareness and providing patients quality home care through PD therapy. 
Baxter has worked with the three main hospitals in 
Vietnam to operate as a center of excellence for PD 
care and disseminate knowledge and training to a 
network of satellite locations in the provinces. These locations operate to standards of care based on proven practices elsewhere in the Asia Pacific region, including Hong Kong and Thailand. 
PRODUCT DONATIONS
Baxter donates products to help improve access to healthcare worldwide. In 2015, the company contributed more than $8 million in products, including through patient assistance programs, to help people in 61 countries 
(see map ).
During the year, Baxter continued to work with its humanitarian aid partners—AmeriCares and Direct Relief—to pre-position products for emergencies and to address ongoing needs in underserved 
A shipment of Baxter-donated products is loaded onto an airplane for Nepal 
as part of AmeriCares’ disaster response efforts. (Photo credit: AmeriCares)communities. To maximize impact, Baxter donates items 
that recipient organizations have requested through a 
critical needs list, such as IV solutions and hemostatic 
sealants. Baxter’s product dating requirements are more 
rigorous than the minimum Partnership for Quality Medical Donations guidelines. 
In 2015, the company further enhanced its product donation strategy by establishing a manufacture-to-donate process. This approach integrates the critical needs lists of partner organizations into the company’s manufacturing and shipping processes twice annually, 
enabling partner organizations to prepare for the 
products they will receive. This optimizes partners’ capacity to warehouse Baxter products and make them available for emergency airlifts.
Medical Missions
When healthcare professionals travel overseas to provide charitable medical care to underserved populations, they often work in hospitals and clinics lacking modern surgical materials. Baxter's BioSurgery hemostatic and tissue sealant products as well as 
anesthesia products and IV solutions are some of the 
most requested medical products in these situations. During 2015, Baxter products were used in 35 countries as a part of 134 medical outreach trips supported by AmeriCares. 
Click here  to learn more about Baxter 
products used in recent medical missions. “ Having donors that manufacture-to-donate is incredibly valuable to us as it really helps us to plan, to be first on scene for emergencies and to know what we can count on with regards to inventory. Baxter continues to be one of our strongest and most reliable donors.”
  Emanuela Chiaranda, Associate Director, Corporate Relations, AmeriCares
VIEW THE PERFORMANCE SUMMARY FOR MORE DETAIL.16      BAXTER 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
Corporate 
Responsibility 
at BaxterProduct  
StewardshipEmployeesEthics and  
ComplianceSustainable  
Manufacturing  
and OperationsAccess to
HealthcareCommunity
EngagementPublic
PolicySupply 
Chain
THE BAXTER INTERNATIONAL 
FOUNDATION
The Baxter International Foundation focuses on 
increasing access to healthcare worldwide. In 2015, 
the Foundation donated nearly $4.2 million in cash 
(excluding future commitments) in 15 countries. This included nearly $740,000 to more than 900 
organizations through the Foundation's Dollars for 
Doers and Matching Gifts programs that support employees' philanthropic contributions. 
Grants awarded in 2015 helped meet local needs 
to increase access to dental care, mental health 
care and other healthcare services for children, the 
uninsured and the elderly. Read stories about recent 
Foundation grant recipients A Safe Haven, The Night Ministry and Sightsavers. Other recipients in 2015 
included the following:
• China   Humana People to People, in Yuxei County, 
used the funds to improve children’s health through better nutrition and timely treatment referrals for children with health complications. 
• Ireland   Nurture in Dublin used the funds to provide support services for women, partners and families experiencing conception-, pregnancy- 
and/or childbirth-related maternal health illness.
The Baxter International Foundation also sponsors 
three prize programs, among the most prestigious 
in healthcare, that recognize organizations and 
individuals demonstrating excellence in community service and healthcare research.
Foster G. McGaw Award   Each year, in conjunction 
with the American Hospital Association and 
Health Research & Educational Trust, The Baxter 
International Foundation presents the $100,000 
Foster G. McGaw Award to a U.S. healthcare organization that delivers innovative programs to improve community health and well-being, and $10,000 awards to three finalists. 
Click here to read a Feature Story about a recent Blue Ribbon Panel focusing on improving 
community health.
William B. Graham Prize   Working with the 
Association of University Programs in Health 
Administration, The Baxter International Foundation 
awards the William B. Graham Prize for Health Services Research to recognize major contributions 
to public health through innovative research. 
Episteme Award   In conjunction with the Honor 
Society of Nursing —Sigma Theta Tau International 
—The Baxter International Foundation bestows the 
Episteme Award every other year to a nurse who has * Includes contributions from Baxter and The Baxter International Foundation.Product and 
Cash Contributions*
Cash Contributions*Product 
DonationsOverview of Baxter Global Community Support in 2015
contributed to nursing knowledge development, 
application or discovery in ways that produce 
significant public benefit. 
Scholarship Program
The Foundation also has a long-standing 
commitment to the education of employees' 
children through annual, merit-based scholarships. 
A third-party agency evaluates applications on the basis of students' academic, extracurricular and 
employment accomplishments. Recipients receive 
a $1,500 cash award, and scholarships may be renewed for up to three additional years. In 2015, 
the Foundation awarded 80 new scholarships and 
renewed 198 for students in the United States and 19 other countries worldwide.17      BAXTER 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
Corporate 
Responsibility 
at BaxterProduct  
StewardshipEmployeesEthics and  
ComplianceSustainable  
Manufacturing  
and OperationsAccess to
HealthcareCommunity
EngagementPublic
PolicySupply 
Chain
Community Engagement
At Baxter, we are committed to saving and 
sustaining lives. Every day, we strive to make a meaningful difference in the lives of people who depend on our products, and in the communities where we live and work by:
• Improving access to healthcare;
• Fostering tomorrow’s innovation; and
• Serving our communities.
During 2015, Baxter and The Baxter International Foundation donated more than $24 million in products, cash contributions and Foundation grants. The company has contributed more than $76 million 
over the last three years. Baxter's business units, 
functions and manufacturing facilities contributed more than $11 million worldwide in 2015 (71% outside the United States).
FOSTERING TOMORROW’S 
INNOVATION 
Baxter takes a hands-on approach to developing 
the next generation of scientists, engineers and healthcare professionals by supporting teachers and science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) education; serving as mentors 
in communities worldwide; and creating diverse 
learning opportunities in the sciences.
In 2008, Baxter launched Science@Work: 
Expanding Minds with Real-World Science, a multi-year commitment to Chicago Public Schools to support teacher training and student development in the health sciences. During the 2014–2015 school year, the program reached nearly 20,000 students and more than 175 teachers through 87 real-world experiences, in-depth teacher training and module lesson plans. This increased the total to more than 152,000 students and 1,700 teachers who have benefited from this program since 2008. 
Learn more about Baxter's Science@Work program.
Other activities included:
FIRST®   Baxter is a founding member of FIRST 
(For Inspiration and Recognition of Science 
and Technology) and has provided the program financial and mentoring support since 1998. In 2015, Baxter supported 18 teams and provided local and 
board support. Teachers Reached1,700 +
In-Class  
Real World 
Experiences320 +
Baxter 
Employees 
Involved840 +
Students Reached152,000 +Science@Work by the Numbers, 2008–2015
Junior Achievement   During the 2014–15 school 
year, more than 360 Baxter volunteers in nine countries provided financial literacy education to over 8,600 students. 
SERVING OUR COMMUNITIES
Baxter’s global reach allows it to serve communities in enduring ways such as volunteering time and r
esources 
to facilitate change, acting as mentors and role models, helping implement sustainable solutions to challenges facing communities and helping those most in need. The company works continually to create long-term, 
meaningful change and offers employees a place to 
pursue rewarding careers while giving back.  
Employee Volunteerism
In 2015, nearly 5,200 Baxter employees volunteered 
92,000 hours in their communities, addressing local concerns. Employees at each Baxter site select volunteer activities to undertake and organizations to support.
In the United States, The Baxter International Foundation Dollars for Doers program provides grants to qualified organizations at which Baxter employees have volunteered for at least 10 hours during the year. In 2015, the program provided 330 grants to 172 
organizations for more than $80,000 total. Access to Healthcare * Some subtotals vary from sum of items in category, due to rounding.
 ** Variations in Baxter's annual product donations are due to fluctuations in community needs,   
 the need and volume of disaster relief response, the regulatory environment, manufacturing   
 processes and changes in product mix and marketing. The company identifies opportunities  to donate and responds to community requests as appropriate. See Access to Healthcare .Baxter and The Baxter International Foundation 
Charitable Giving* (dollars in millions)
 2013 2014 2015
Product Donations**  
Products/Patient Assistance Programs   $9.58 $5.20 $8.76 
Business and Facility Cash Donations
Within the United States  $3.42 $2.98 $3.34
Outside the United States  9.40 10.50 8.20
Subtotal  $12.82 $13.40 $11.54
The Baxter International Foundation Contributions
Within the United States (including Puerto Rico)  
Grants  $0.76 $1 .09 $1 .39
Matching Gifts and Dollars for Doers 0.65 0.77 0.74  
Scholarships  0.21 0.25 0.27
Prize Programs  0.23 0.39 0.58
Subtotal  2.13 2.64 2.97
Outside the United States  
Grants  0.65 0.22 1 .11
Scholarships  0.07 0.07 0.10
Subtotal  0.72 0.29 1 .21
Total Foundation Contributions  $2.85 $2.93 $4.18
Total Charitable Giving  $27 .38 $24.17 $24.4918      BAXTER 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
Corporate 
Responsibility 
at BaxterProduct  
StewardshipEmployeesEthics and  
ComplianceSustainable  
Manufacturing  
and OperationsAccess to
HealthcareCommunity
EngagementPublic
PolicySupply 
Chain
Baxter World Environment Week
Through Baxter World Environment Week the 
company engages and educates employees on environmental sustainability, as facilities conduct biodiversity-related and environmental-preservation activities. In 2015, 102 sites in 21 countries worldwide 
held local cleanups, educational campaigns, tree-
planting events and other biodiversity-focused activities. Examples include:    
• China   Employees at the Tianjin facility hosted 
a series of environmental activities, including an Environmental Workshop for Tianjin Vocational 
University. At the event, employees introduced 
students to the government-produced 2014 Chicago Public Schools high school students visited Baxter as a part of the R&D STEM Learning Exchange, a problem-based learning initiative through the 
company’s partnership with the Illinois Science and Technology Institute. Students learned about Baxter’s business, saw lab demonstrations of the company’s 
products and therapies and received mentoring from Baxter professionals with STEM backgrounds.
China Environmental Report, the Baxter EHS and 
Sustainability Policy, and the company’s efforts to 
conserve energy and water and to reduce waste. 
Biodiversity-related topics included the effects of water pollution on the nearby Haihe River.  
• Mexico   Employees of the Atlacomulco facility and their families planted 300 trees as part of reforestation efforts in the community of San 
Miguel Tenochtitlán, helping to restore the local 
ecosystem from excessive deforestation. 
• United States   
In Northern Illinois, more than 85 
Baxter employees and family members gathered 
at the Chicago Botanic Garden to volunteer, 
removing invasive species from the garden and processing seeds for a seed bank. In addition, 
employees and family members learned about 
horticulture and plant conservation. Making a Meaningful Difference Month
Each October, Baxter employees in the Asia Pacific 
region volunteer time and contribute funds during Making a Meaningful Difference month to improve the lives of people in local communities and to care for the environment. Highlights from 2015 include:
• Guangzhou, China   More than 700 employees 
and their families organized an interactive 
sporting event for children with autism or minimal 
brain dysfunction at the Guangzhou Xiaotianshi 
Rehabilitation Training Center. 
• Miyazaki, Japan   Baxter employees hosted an 
environmental education program for fourth-grade 
students from Kibana Junior School. In addition to 
learning about the importance of sustainability and water conservation, the students also took part in 
a plant tour and learned about water-purification 
technologies used at Baxter.
Employee Giving
The Baxter International Foundation Matching Gift 
Program matches employee donations of $25 or more, up to $5,000 each year, to qualifying U.S. public charities.
1 In 2015, The Baxter International 
Foundation matched gifts to eligible organizations submitted by more than 1,000 U.S.-based employees from 42 states. Matches totaled more than $650,000, which doubled the impact to over 700 charitable 
organizations.
Bureau Veritas has provided assurance  on the content 
in this Baxter World Environment Week section.19      BAXTER 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
Corporate 
Responsibility 
at BaxterProduct  
StewardshipEmployeesEthics and  
ComplianceSustainable  
Manufacturing  
and OperationsAccess to
HealthcareCommunity
EngagementPublic
PolicySupply 
Chain
Ethics and Compliance
As a global healthcare company operating in more than 
100 countries, Baxter incorporates ethics and compliance 
into everything that it does. Baxter is committed to 
promoting trust within the company’s operations and beyond and fostering an open culture that demonstrates 
the highest ethical standards. For more information 
about ethics and compliance at Baxter, 
click here . 
HUMAN RIGHTS ACROSS THE VALUE CHAIN
As outlined in Baxter’s Global Human Rights Policy , 
the company respects the human rights, dignity and 
diverse contributions of all individuals. Fostering human 
rights in the company’s direct and indirect actions takes many forms at Baxter and is reflected in numerous 
company policies and initiatives in areas including 
employment practices, privacy, safety, supply chain, ethical conduct and access to healthcare. 
RELATIONSHIPS WITH HEALTHCARE 
PROFESSIONALS AND GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
Baxter is committed to reporting transparently 
on its relationships with healthcare professionals. 
This includes the continued implementation of 
anticorruption programs to ensure those relationships and related payments are for necessary and genuine 
services. In 2015, the company initiated the worldwide 
launch of its Global Interactions Policy with the medical community and government officials. 
Baxter’s U.S. Contributions Management Program 
reviews and processes contribution requests—such 
as for patient education events and walks or runs 
to increase disease awareness—from nonprofit and for-profit healthcare organizations (HCOs). In 2015, the 
company processed 175 such requests and approved 
more than $650,000 in contributions to HCOs. LEGAL AND REGULATORY 
COMPLIANCE TRAINING
Annually, Baxter employees complete more than 20 
e-learning courses covering topics such as adverse-
event reporting procedures, Baxter’s ethics and 
compliance standards, data privacy, the company's Global Interactions Policy, trade compliance and 
workplace violence prevention. 
Baxter’s Legal department and Ethics and 
Compliance function also conducted hundreds of 
classroom sessions worldwide during the year about the company’s ethics and compliance standards and 
supporting policies.
INTERNATIONAL ANTICORRUPTION 
ACTIVITIES
Baxter completes risk assessments annually and as 
information becomes available, covering corruption 
among other risks. The Corporate Audit and Ethics 
and Compliance functions select the locations of operations to audit based on factors such as size, 
Transparency International’s Corruption Perception 
Index, the nature of interactions with third parties, industry trends and the results of local and regional 
compliance investigations. Relationships with third 
parties can be a focus of these assessments, such as the nature of arrangements between Baxter 
and third parties, the adherence of third parties 
to contractual terms and Baxter’s ethics and compliance standards for suppliers, the training 
history and needs of suppliers and distributors, the 
level of interaction with governments and healthcare professionals, and other possible risk factors.
The company conducted two compliance 
assessments in 2015 using Corporate Audit and 
Ethics and Compliance resources—one each in 
Baxter’s Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and Asia Pacific regions. The assessments show 
continued progress in awareness, understanding and 
implementation of Baxter’s anticorruption programs. In addition to compliance assessments, the company 
conducted compliance self-monitoring in 72 
countries, including eight in Asia Pacific, 61 in EMEA and three in Latin America. 
ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE HELPLINE
In 2015, Baxter logged 350 inquiries from 28 countries into the Helpline system. Due to the spinoff of Baxalta, 
data on substantiated cases are available only from 
July 1 through the end of the year. During that period, 
the company addressed 174 cases promptly and thoroughly. Not all of these items were reports of 
alleged misconduct or related to compliance. 
(% of total)
Issue Cases
Work Environment/Employee Relations 95
Interactions with Government Officials Including  39
HCPs/HCOs (outside the United States)
Asset or Information Misuse or Misappropriation/ 10
Data Privacy
Competitive Practices 8Con/f_lict of Interest 6Manufacturing/EHS/R&D/Regulatory 6Marketing and Sales 5Financial Management and Reporting 4
Payments/Gifts/Entertainment with HCPs/HCOs (United States) 1
Total 174Ethics and Compliance Helpline Cases in 2015*
54.6%
22.4%5.7%4.6%3.4%3.4%2.9%2.3%
0.6%
 * Due to the spinoff of Baxalta, data on substantiated cases are available only from July 1, 
2015, through the end of the year. 20      BAXTER 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
Corporate 
Responsibility 
at BaxterProduct  
StewardshipEmployeesEthics and  
ComplianceSustainable  
Manufacturing  
and OperationsAccess to
HealthcareCommunity
EngagementPublic
PolicySupply 
Chain
Sustainable  
Manufacturing  and  
Operations
Baxter is committed to driving sustainability 
throughout its global manufacturing operations.1 
It strives to use energy, water and raw materials efficiently, while reducing waste and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. This improves the company’s environmental performance while saving money and 
enhancing Baxter’s reputation.  
The company’s environmental, health, safety (EHS) 
and sustainability vision is to achieve a sustainable enterprise that creates stakeholder value by 
advancing 
superior environmental stewardship, the  highest level 
of employee health and well-being, and an injury-free workplace. Baxter’s EHS and Sustainability Policy outlines the company’s commitments in this area, within its operations and across the value chain. The 
company’s EHS governance structure helps the EHS 
organization achieve its goals and create long-term business value. 
Baxter follows a management-systems approach 
guided by its global EHS requirements. The company applies the ISO 14001 standard to systematically manage its environmental aspects and the OHSAS 18001 standard to manage its health and safety hazards and risks. As of year-end 2015, 68 Baxter locations met the requirements of ISO 14001 and 50 sites were certified to OHSAS 18001.
The company’s EHS audit program verifies that Baxter’s facilities have EHS programs that achieve regulatory compliance and meet the company’s EHS requirements, objectives and goals. In 2015, Baxter conducted EHS audits at 26 out of 74 applicable facilities.
2
Baxter assesses its performance in environmental compliance based on notices of violation (NOVs), environmental fines and environmental compliance incidents. The company received 10 environmental NOVs in 2015 (eight related to wastewater) and paid 
$909 in environmental fines. Baxter settled one health 
and safety NOV during the year, and paid $225 in health and safety fines.
Since 1994, Baxter has created an Environmental 
Financial Statement to demonstrate the value of the company’s proactive global environmental management program. Total estimated environmental income, savings and cost avoidance realized in 2015 equaled $23.0 million. See Baxter 2015 Environmental Financial Statement for detail.
Progress toward several of the company’s natural resource use reduction goals slowed or reversed during the year. Baxter did not meet its 2015 goals for energy usage, GHG emissions, water usage and total waste, which are indexed to revenue. A contributing factor 
was a 7% decrease in revenue in 2015 compared with 
2014, even as production volumes remained steady. This reduction in revenue was driven primarily by unfavorable foreign currency impact.   
Baxter anticipates that ongoing business growth and changes to manufacturing processes during the next several years will continue to present challenges to reduction efforts related to natural resource use. 
ENERGY 
Using energy effectively enhances business efficiency, conserves natural resources and improves environmental performance. Reducing fossil fuel combustion decreases GHG emissions, improves air quality and decreases fine particulates that contribute to adverse health effects. 
In 2015, Baxter used 7,967 trillion joules of energy (not including Gambro)—a reduction of 21% indexed to revenue compared with 2005. This includes energy used by Baxter-managed and Baxter-operated facilities (electricity, fuels and purchased steam) and excludes 
energy related to company-operated vehicles. Changes 
in manufacturing processes and energy conservation projects in 2015 contributed to a 1% absolute decrease in energy usage compared with 2014. Though Baxter focused on energy reduction projects to 
meet its 2015 
goal to decrease energy usage from operations by 30% indexed to revenue, compared with 2005, business growth and manufacturing process changes in recent years presented challenges in this area
.
Energy conservation supports Baxter’s business because energy is one of the company’s most 
significant manufacturing costs. Since 2005, while -50%-45%-40%-35%-30%-25%-20%-15%-10%-5%0%Progress on 2015 Environmental Goals
 2005  2013 2014 2015  2015 Goal
Energy Usage  0%  -29% -26% -21% -30%
GHG Emissions  0%  -42% -41% -40% -45% 
Total Waste  0%  -29% -26% -20% -30%
Water Usage  0%  -38% -35% -33% -35%(% change, indexed to revenue*)
 *Negative numbers represent reductions.
Bureau Veritas has provided assurance  on the 
content in this section (except for content related to the 
Environmental Financial Statement)..21      BAXTER 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
Corporate 
Responsibility 
at BaxterProduct  
StewardshipEmployeesEthics and  
ComplianceSustainable  
Manufacturing  
and OperationsAccess to
HealthcareCommunity
EngagementPublic
PolicySupply 
Chain
Baxter increased sales 35% through 2015, the company’s 
absolute energy usage from operations increased by only 6%. Baxter’s corresponding manufacturing facility-related energy costs rose 46% during this same period, to $132 million, due to sharply increasing energy prices. 
This underscores the importance of the company’s 
ongoing energy-conservation efforts.
 
During 2015, the company implemented 129 energy-conservation projects that saved more than $2.8 million and 97.8 trillion joules of energy, avoiding 
more than 13,000 metric tons carbon dioxide 
equivalent (CO
2e) of GHG emissions. Baxter saved 
approximately $35 million in 2015 from energy-conservation initiatives in manufacturing operations that the company has implemented since 2005.
In 2007, Baxter launched a Lean Energy Program for the company’s main manufacturing facilities. It includes four sets of Lean energy standards—Pre-requisite, Bronze, Silver and Gold. Each defines 25 to 30 requirements a facility must meet to qualify for that 
level, with a focus on the energy efficiency of processes 
and systems. By the end of 2015, six sites had achieved Gold status, 14 Silver, 36 Bronze, and 42 Pre-requisite. 
Site-specific energy assessments also identify 
opportunities for energy conservation and chances to apply and share new technologies and best practices across the company. In 2015, Baxter performed energy assessments at eight facilities worldwide. From those, 
the company has identified 106 potential energy-
conservation projects worldwide, representing possible annual savings of $3.3 million.
WASTE
Decreasing waste reduces expenses related to raw materials, waste handling and disposal. It also decreases environmental impacts associated with the extraction and refinement of raw materials. Baxter identifies leading opportunities to decrease waste based on the highest-volume waste streams, facilities 
that produce the most waste, sites with particularly 
strong potential to improve and other factors.
During 2015, Baxter's operations, excluding Gambro, generated 55,280 metric tons of total waste, up 8% from 2005 in absolute terms and a 20% decrease indexed to revenue. Total waste increased by 1% during 2015 compared with 2014. Baxter attributes this to 
changes in manufacturing and materials requirements 
processes at some of the company’s larger manufacturing facilities. These alterations typically cause significant increases in waste generation.
Plastic scrap represents Baxter’s largest waste stream, representing roughly one-third of the company’s non-hazardous waste. Eleven of the 20 sites participating in the company’s Plastic Waste Reduction Program reduced plastic waste by nearly 
900 metric tons in 2015. 
Baxter, including Gambro, recycled 77% of the 61,000 
metric tons of nonhazardous waste generated in 2015, and 40% of the 12,720 metric tons of regulated waste,
3 for an overall recycling rate of 71%.4 In 2015, 13 
manufacturing sites and one research and development facility diverted 95% or more of their waste from landfill. Overall, recycling activities at Baxter generated nearly $6.6 million in net income in 2015. 
WATER
Water issues continue to grow in importance worldwide. Although these concerns are global, addressing water issues requires action at the local or regional level.  Baxter works to better understand the impacts of its water use across the value chain and implements conservation and efficiency projects at its manufacturing facilities to improve performance.
Baxter reduced water consumption by 33% indexed to revenue from 2005 to 2015, just short of its goal of a 35% decrease. The company met its goal to implement two projects by 2015 to help protect vulnerable watersheds and provide communities with 
enhanced access to clean water.
During 2015, Baxter, excluding Gambro, used 
approximately 12.0 million cubic meters of water,5 
roughly equivalent to filling 13 Olympic-sized swimming pools every day. This equaled 10% less water than in 2005 in absolute terms and 33% less indexed to revenue. Baxter used nearly 5% less water 
in 2015 than in 2014, largely due to improvements 
in manufacturing practices at numerous facilities globally. Although Baxter focused on water and energy reduction projects to meet its 2015 goals, business growth and manufacturing process changes during the past several years presented challenges to its water use reduction efforts.
Baxter considers several factors to identify water usage reduction opportunities and possible water-conservation projects at sites, including total water used, water usage efficiency and water cost and availability. Due to the strong link between energy 
usage and water processing, optimizing water 
systems remains a key focus of the company’s facility energy assessments. Additionally, Baxter integrates Lean manufacturing principles and tools such as value stream mapping
6 with water management to help 
facilities identify areas for additional conservation.VIEW THE PERFORMANCE SUMMARY FOR MORE DETAIL.VIEW THE PERFORMANCE SUMMARY FOR MORE DETAIL.VIEW THE PERFORMANCE SUMMARY FOR MORE DETAIL.22      BAXTER 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
Corporate 
Responsibility 
at BaxterProduct  
StewardshipEmployeesEthics and  
ComplianceSustainable  
Manufacturing  
and OperationsAccess to
HealthcareCommunity
EngagementPublic
PolicySupply 
Chain
During 2015, Baxter implemented water recovery and 
reuse projects at several facilities. The company's facility in São Paulo, Brazil, reduced water use by about 42,000 cubic meters on an annual basis through 
water 
recovery in sterilizers and water reuse in sanitization tanks. Baxter's Guangzhou, China, facility implemented several initiatives, including recycling boiler condensate water, reusing reject water and improving injection 
system efficiency. These efforts contributed to overall 
site reductions of nearly 30,000 cubic meters of water year over year. 
Water issues vary significantly by location. For 2015, 
Baxter used the World Business Council for Sustainable Development Global Water Tool to evaluate the availability of renewable water supply at the company’s 59 largest water-consuming locations, which represent 
more than 97% of Baxter’s total water use, including 
Gambro. Seven of those sites are located in extreme water-scarcity areas, five in water-scarce areas, 10 in water-stressed areas, 18 in water-sufficient areas and 19 in water-abundant areas.
7 Water usage in extreme 
water-scarcity, water-scarce and water-stressed areas decreased by approximately 5% in absolute terms and 2% indexed to revenue in 2015 compared with 2014.
In 2015, Baxter completed its fourth year of working 
with the Philippine Center for Water and Sanitation to improve water, sanitation and hygiene conditions 
for the nearly 1,500 inhabitants of Sitio Silangan, a 
community within walking distance of the company’s manufacturing facility in Canlubang, Philippines. Baxter also completed its second year of working with Sarar Transformación SC to implement a community water project near Baxter’s facility in Cuernavaca, Mexico.
GHG EMISSIONS ACROSS THE  
VALUE CHAIN
Baxter began reporting its Scope 1, Scope 2 and certain Scope 3 GHG emissions in 1997 and contributed to the development of the initial version of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, a collaboration of World Resources Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development.
Baxter estimates its 2015 GHG emissions footprint (Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3)
8 at 5.4 million metric 
tons CO2e, up from 5.3 million metric tons CO2e the 
prior year. The main factor influencing this increase was GHG emissions associated with the use of certain products for which production and sales have increased in recent years. The data in this report are presented in accordance with the GHG Protocol (Scope 
1 and Scope 2) and the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3)  
Accounting and Reporting Standard.
GHG EMISSIONS FROM OPERATIONS
GHG emissions related to Baxter’s operations are due to facility energy use, company-operated vehicles and refrigerant losses. Baxter’s approach to managing and reducing GHG emissions from operations includes 18 program and reduction strategies. Program strategies 
include developing and refining an overall GHG 
emissions reduction strategy, setting GHG emissions reduction goals and measuring and reporting progress among others. These are complemented by specific tactics to reduce GHG emissions, such as energy-efficiency initiatives, fuel switching, cogeneration, onsite renewable energy systems, renewable power and green buildings.
Baxter’s goal has been to reduce GHG emissions from its operations by 45% indexed to revenue by 2015 compared with 2005. For this period, Baxter decreased net GHG emissions from operations by 19% in absolute terms and by 40% indexed to revenue, 
falling short of meeting the 2015 goal.
Total net emissions from operations, including 
Gambro, equaled 670,000 metric tons CO2e in 2015. 
This includes a subtraction of 133,000 metric tons CO
2e of carbon credits.
Energy usage accounts for 98% of Baxter's GHG emissions from operations, so the company focuses its emissions reduction efforts in this area. In 2015, Baxter facilities completed 129 energy-conservation projects that reduced annual GHG emissions by more 
than 13,000 metric tons CO
2e. (% of total)
Metric Tons CO2e Category % of Total
Upstream (Scope 3)      
Purchased Goods and Services 703,000 13%
Capital Goods 114,000 2%
Fuel and Energy-Related Activities  128,000 2%
Upstream Transportation and Distribution 413,000 8%Waste Generated in Operations 13,000 0%Business Travel 70,000 1%
Employee Commuting 31,000 1%
Upstream Leased Assets 1,000 0%
Baxter Operations (Scope 1 and 2)      
Facility/Vehicle Fuel Usage and Refrigerant 304,000 6%
Losses (Scope 1) 
Purchased Energy (Scope 2) 393,000 7%
Downstream (Scope 3)      
Downstream Transportation and Distribution 147 ,000 3%Processing of Sold Products  15,000 0%
Use of Sold Products 2,830,000 53%
End-of-life Treatment of Sold Products 184,000 3%Downstream Leased Assets  0 0%
Franchises  0 0%
Investments 41,000 1%
Total 5,387 ,000 100%Baxter's Global GHG Emissions Footprint , 2015 *
 The emissions reported in this graph are presented in accordance with guidance provided 
by the GHG Protocol (Scope 1 and Scope 2) and the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) 
Accounting and Reporting Standard. *VIEW THE PERFORMANCE SUMMARY FOR MORE DETAIL.23      BAXTER 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
Corporate 
Responsibility 
at BaxterProduct  
StewardshipEmployeesEthics and  
ComplianceSustainable  
Manufacturing  
and OperationsAccess to
HealthcareCommunity
EngagementPublic
PolicySupply 
Chain
In 2007, Baxter committed to increasing facility 
usage of renewable energy to 20% of total energy use by 2015. By the end of 2015, 24% of the 
company’s energy use for operations was from 
renewable sources, exceeding the goal. Biomass 
fuel for boilers at four company locations9 
represented 10% of total energy use, and the renewable energy component of purchased 
electricity and renewable energy certificates together represented 14%. On-site geothermal, solar photovoltaic and solar hot water systems contributed a small amount to the total.
During 2015, Baxter purchased about 200,000 
megawatt hours of electricity generated from 100% certified renewable power, including all electricity 
purchased by the company in Illinois, United States. 
Baxter was recognized as the 21st-largest corporate purchaser of renewable energy in the United States during the year.
10
Since 2007, Baxter has maintained carbon neutrality at its headquarters in Deerfield, Illinois, United States, and its manufacturing facility in Cartago, Costa Rica, through electricity generated from certified renewable energy, carbon credits and carbon offsets. In both cases, the company offsets facility-related emissions from purchased electricity and from fuel combusted on site. 
GHG EMISSIONS FROM PRODUCT 
TRANSPORT
Baxter transports large amounts of raw materials and 
more than 3 billion units of finished goods each year throughout its global supply chain. In some instances, Baxter directly operates its product distribution system, such as a private fleet for Renal product 
home delivery in certain countries. The company also 
partners with third-party vendors and carriers.
Baxter partners with a third party that calculates 
the GHG emissions of Baxter’s upstream product transportation and distribution, which constitute the majority of emissions for this category. Another third party estimates Baxter’s downstream product transportation emissions. Baxter’s approach to improving performance in this area includes:
Optimizing the distribution network   Baxter 
continually works to improve the efficiency of its distribution network, including through route optimization and technology innovation, to save time and money while improving environmental performance. For example, the company partnered with a vendor to provide temperature-controlled container shipments via rail, saving 25 days compared with ocean transit for some routes.
Using intermodal transport   Combining multiple 
transportation modes for a single shipment can 
decrease costs and overall GHG emissions. Baxter 
continues to use this approach in Europe and the United  
States when possible. The company used intermodal 
transport for approximately 28% of shipments to replenish its U.S distribution network in 2015.Air
Ground(% of total)
68%22%2%8%Rail
OceanWorldwide GHG Emissions from Product Transport 
by Mode, 2015*
 * Data for 2015 include Gambro and do not include Baxalta. Data for 2013 and 2014 include Baxalta.0100200300400500600700
020406080100120140160180200GHG Emissions from Baxter Operations*
(thousand metric
tons CO2e)(metric tons CO2e per million dollars of sales)
 2005 2013 2014 2015
 *Excludes data from Gambro. Data for 2005, 2014 and 2015 exclude Baxalta. Data for 2013 include Baxalta.Asia
Paci/f_ic
EMEA
North
AmericaLatinAmerica
Increasing capacity utilization   Through use of 
double-decker trucks in some locations, agreements with other companies to share routes, trucks that move combined loads most efficiently and truckload weight optimization software applications, Baxter 
has decreased environmental impacts for each 
product shipped. In 2015, use of route-planning software resulted in 390 fewer truckload shipments, decreasing GHG emissions by 246 metric tons CO
2e. 
Engaging in environmentally responsible partnerships   Baxter is one of a select number of companies that participate in the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency SmartWay
® program as both a 
Carrier and Shipper Partner. In 2015, Baxter became a member of Green Freight Asia to enhance the company’s Asia Pacific green optimization transport strategies and technologies.
Baxter’s total worldwide GHG emissions from product transport equaled 412,800 metric tons CO
2e in 2015, 
equivalent to 99 kilograms CO2e per metric ton of 
products transported, a 22% decrease from 2014. 24      BAXTER 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
Corporate 
Responsibility 
at BaxterProduct  
StewardshipEmployeesEthics and  
ComplianceSustainable  
Manufacturing  
and OperationsAccess to
HealthcareCommunity
EngagementPublic
PolicySupply 
Chain
Supply Chain
Baxter’s supply chain extends from producers of raw 
materials to end users of the company’s products. The company is committed to building and driving a sustainable supply chain. Baxter engages its suppliers on key sustainability issues, including energy use, 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, waste reduction and 
the environmental impacts of product materials. To learn more about Baxter's supply chain, 
click here . 
SUPPLIER STANDARDS
Several sustainability-related standards  govern 
Baxter’s relationships with suppliers and underpin the company’s Global Supplier Sustainability Program. Baxter maintains a culture of strict compliance with applicable laws, rules and 
regulations and demonstrates high standards of 
ethics and business conduct. 
SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT
Baxter considers several environmental and social factors as it integrates sustainable practices into procurement. The company collaborates with its suppliers to identify opportunities to improve environmental performance, such as reducing energy 
use, GHG emissions and waste. Baxter also promotes 
human rights throughout its supplier base. 
Requests for Proposal and Supplier 
Agreements 
Baxter considers price, quality, environmental criteria 
and other factors when selecting and evaluating its suppliers. To support these efforts, the company 
incorporates sustainability in its requests for proposal  and supplier contract templates. This reiterates Baxter's commitment and provides a means to assess each supplier's ability to support progress against Baxter's corporate responsibility goals and to conduct business consistent with Baxter’s supplier 
standards. For more information, 
click here . 
Annual Supplier Sustainability Survey 
At the end of 2015, Baxter engaged with a global 
supply chain sustainability service provider to enhance the supplier experience, provide improved sustainability-related feedback and to better align Baxter's supplier sustainability survey with the company's long-term corporate responsibility objectives. As of March 2016, 74% of the 100 critical direct and indirect suppliers
1  surveyed had 
responded. Baxter will provide suppliers with a report card based on the data they provided. The company plans to repeat the survey annually and expand to 200–250 critical suppliers in 2016. 
e-Impact Program
During 2015, Baxter’s e-Impact program continued to identify opportunities to collaborate with suppliers to improve environmental performance and to recognize results. Baxter employees submitted 113 project ideas in
 2015, exceeding the goal of 100. 
Eighty projects were successfully completed during 
the year, with combined benefits to Baxter and its suppliers summarized in the table below. The company credits a significant portion of the overall cost avoidance to a shift in Baxter’s travel policy for 2015.  
SUPPLIER DIVERSITY
Baxter works to develop mutually beneficial relationships with small and diverse suppliers, and strives to continue to increase the diversity of its supplier base. 
In 2015, Baxter spent $762 million with small 
businesses in the United States and Puerto Rico, representing a 2% increase compared with 2014 and approximately 16% of Baxter's total supplier spending of $4.8 billion in those markets during the year. The company increased spending with diverse design and development partners, and several large facility expansion projects drove spend with local small and diverse suppliers and contractors. During 
the year, the company spent about $133 million 
with women-owned businesses and $42 million 
with minority-owned firms in the United States 
and Puerto Rico. Veteran-owned, service-disabled 
veteran-owned, disadvantaged and HUBZone-certified businesses represented $15.3 million, $5.7 million, $1.7 million and $0.03 million of Baxter's spending, respectively. 
To learn more about supplier diversity at Baxter,
 
click here .
 2013 2014 2015
Project Ideas Submitted  60 49 113
Projects Completed  23 17 80
Cost Avoidance*  $2,275,000 $9,270,000 $14,914,000
GHG Emissions Reduction  5,620 3,200 8,950
(metric tons CO2e)*e-Impact Program Summary Results
 * Data only include projects completed during the year indicated. 
Bureau Veritas has provided assurance  on the 
content in this section.
VIEW THE PERFORMANCE SUMMARY FOR MORE DETAIL.25      BAXTER 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
Corporate 
Responsibility 
at BaxterProduct  
StewardshipEmployeesEthics and  
ComplianceSustainable  
Manufacturing  
and OperationsAccess to
HealthcareCommunity
EngagementPublic
PolicySupply 
Chain
Public Policy
Many legislative issues affect Baxter's business 
globally, including reimbursement, tax, trade and a variety of regulatory concerns. The company’s Government Affairs and Public Policy (GAPP) team works with lawmakers, governments and 
policymakers worldwide to support patient access 
to the company’s life-saving therapies, increase understanding of the benefits of those therapies, address barriers to care and explore possible solutions. This involves engaging with governments to improve the regulatory environment and reimbursement structure for Baxter’s therapies and collaborating with clinicians, nongovernmental organizations and patient groups to increase access 
to healthcare for millions of people worldwide.
The Public Policy Committee of Baxter's Board 
of Directors oversees the company’s government affairs activities. The committee reviews Baxter's positions on pending legislation and political advocacy efforts. For additional information, 
see 
Baxter's 2015 Political Contributions Report , 
which details political contributions reviewed by 
the BAXPAC Board of Directors. It also includes information about the company’s membership in certain trade and industry groups.
Baxter was ranked among the first tier of companies in the 2015 CPA-Zicklin Index of Corporate Political Disclosure and 
Accountability.
Baxter’s key public policy focus areas include 
the suspension of the medical device excise tax, engagement on home dialysis, home delivery of renal products and support of diverse populations.MEDICAL DEVICE TAX
Since 2011, Baxter and other companies have collaborated with the medical technology association AdvaMed to promote repeal of the medical device excise tax. With the passage of the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act of 
2015, the 2.3% medical device excise tax has been 
suspended for 2016 and 2017. The company played a role in educating constituent members about the ramifications of the tax on Baxter and its patients. 
ENGAGEMENT ON HOME DIALYSIS
Baxter belongs to the Alliance for Home Dialysis, an organization focused on advocacy, policy and thought leadership. The company participated in the 2015 Alliance for Home Dialysis Federal Policy Workshop in Washington, DC, to further the dialogue 
about the benefits of home dialysis for patients with 
end-stage  renal disease. The workshop provided a 
forum for the home dialysis community, the Obama 
Administration and U.S. Congressional staff to discuss 
emerging policy opportunities to ensure patient choice in treatment.
Home dialysis is an alternative to in-center treatment, 
which generally requires patients to visit a clinic three times a week. Despite the widely accepted and well-documented benefits of home dialysis compared with in-center treatment—including 
improved outcomes associated with more consistent 
treatments, enhanced patient satisfaction, improved quality of life and lower costs—only about 10% of U.S. dialysis patients receive treatment at home.
HOME DELIVERY OF RENAL PRODUCTS
In the United States, the dispensing of pharmaceuticals  
is governed by laws and regulations at the state level. Baxter works to help shape state policies to better align with the company’s Renal Home Patient service. Work on this program began in 2014 and culminated 
in 2015 when the National Association of State Boards 
of Pharmacy adopted language in the State Pharmacy Model Act that exempts manufacturers of dialysis supplies and drugs from registration as a pharmacy to deliver products to patients’ homes. Georgia and North 
Carolina enacted similar laws at the state level.  
Baxter teams are working to expand law adoption in 
several additional states during 2016 to drive further 
gains in operational excellence and financial savings. 
SUPPORTING DIVERSE POPULATIONS
In April 2015, Baxter’s GAPP team held its third 
annual Minority Health Month Fly-In in Washington, DC. Members of Baxter’s business resource groups came from across the country to underscore the importance of developing strong public policies in 
the healthcare and medical device sectors to help 
address healthcare disparities that continue to affect racial and ethnic minorities. The team met with about 35 members of the Tri-Caucus, including members of the Congressional Black Caucus, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and the Congressional Asian Pacific 
American Caucus.
During 2015 Baxter representatives attended The 
National Minority Quality Forum Summit, the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation Annual Legislative Conference, the Congressional Black Caucus Community Breakfast and Health Fair and 
the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute Public 
Policy Conference.  
26      BAXTER 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
Corporate 
Responsibility 
at BaxterProduct  
StewardshipEmployeesEthics and  
ComplianceSustainable  
Manufacturing  
and OperationsAccess to
HealthcareCommunity
EngagementPublic
PolicySupply 
Chain
APPENDIX:   Baxter 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Performance Summary
 
 
Financial Performance
Worldwide Net Sales ($ millions)   $9,413 $10,719 $9,968
U.S. Net Sales ($ millions)   $3,584 $3,999 $4,001 
International Net Sales ($ millions)   $5,829 $6,720 $5,967 
Stock Price ($ at year end)   $37.78 $39.82 $38.15 
Dividend ($ per share)   $1.92 $2.05 $1.27
Research and Development ($ millions)   $582 $610 $603
Employees 
Global Workforce by Job Level (as a % of total)  
 Executive   0.5% 0.4% 0.3%
 Management   12.7% 12.4% 11.8% 
 Professionals   32.1% 31.2% 31.1% 
 Technical/Clerical   54.7% 56.1% 56.7%
Global Workforce by Gender (as a % of total)   Female   50.5% 50.1% 49.4% 
 Male   49.5% 49.9% 50.6%
Global Workforce by Region (as a % of total)   Asia Pacific   15.9% 18.4% 22.9% 
 Canada   1.7% 1.7% 2.1% 
 Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA)   34.4% 32.2% 29.3% 
 Latin America   12.2% 12.2% 15.6%
 United States (including Puerto Rico)   35.9% 35.6% 30.0%
Female Representation by Region (as a % of total)      Asia Pacific   50.4% 50.2% 50.1% 
 Canada   58.7% 57.4% 57.6% 
 EMEA   48.4% 47.8% 48.4% 
 Latin America   56.8% 56.8% 56.7%
 United States (including Puerto Rico)   50.1% 49.6% 45.6%
Female Representation by Job Level (women as a % of total)     
 Executive   24.4% 26.1% 22.8% 
 Management   39.3% 39.2% 39.0%
 Professionals   49.1% 49.2% 49.0% 
 Technical/Clerical   54.2% 53.2% 52.0%
Ethnic Minority Representation (as a % of total, U.S. only)   37.0% 35.0% 35.0%
 Executive   21.2%  19.7%  19.5%  
 Management   25.8%  26.7%  25.1%  
 Professionals   32.6%  33.0%  29.6%   
 Technical/Clerical   38.5%  37.8%  43.7%
Recordable Case Rate
1   0.88 0.93 0.77
 Asia Pacific   0.17 0.14 0.08 
 EMEA   0.52 0.57 0.56 
 Latin America   0.22 0.38 0.42
 North America   1.86 1.83 1.60
Cases with Days Lost Rate2   0.096 0.131 0.175
 Asia Pacific   0.038 0.036 0.000 
 EMEA   0.076 0.138 0.180 
 Latin America   0.025 0.049 0.040
 North America   0.181 0.218 0.351 
Days Lost Rate3   2.37 3.56 4.92
 Asia Pacific   0.92 0.30 0.00 
 EMEA   1.20 2.34 2.37 
 Latin America   0.12 2.28 0.14
 North America   5.21 6.61 11.14
 
 
Employees (cont.)
 Restricted Days Rate4   12.66 14.94 17.32
 Asia Pacific   2.30 0.25  0.51 
 EMEA   6.51 5.55 6.11 
 Latin America   0.56 0.62 4.32
 North America    29.05 35.72 45.87 
Days Away (Lost), Restricted or Transferred Rate5 (DART)   15.03 18.50 22.25
Employee/Contractor Major Incidents6 (total number)   5/3 10/3 4/0
Employee/Contractor Fatalities7 (total number)   0/0 0/0 0/0
Health and Safety Notices of Violation Settled   6 1 1
Health and Safety Fines Paid (in dollars)   $2,000 $0 $225
Sources of Recordable Injury and Serious Incidents8 (as a % of total)  
 Ergonomic   21% 20% 22% 
 Involving the Body (non-ergonomic)   16% 18% 8% 
 Punctures   16% 16% 7%
 Struck by Object   13% 16% 14%
 Slips, Trips and Falls   17% 15% 19% 
 Caught in, on or Between   10% 10% 11% 
 Forklifts and Other Vehicles   1% 1% 3% 
 Other   6% 5% 17%
Baxter and The Baxter International Foundation Charitable Giving9 (dollars in millions)
Total Charitable Giving   $27.38 $24.17 $24.49
Product Donations10
 Products/Patient Assistance Programs   $9.58 $5.20 $8.76
Business and Facility Cash Donations   $12.82 $13.40 $11.54
 Within the United States   3.42 2.98 3.34
 Outside the United States   9.40 10.50 8.20
The Baxter International Foundation Contributions   $2.85 $2.93 $4.18
 Within the United States (including Puerto Rico)   2.13 2.64 2.97
  Grants   0.76 1.09 1.39
  Matching Gifts and Dollars for Doers   0.65 0.77 0.74
  Scholarships   0.21 0.25 0.27
  Prize Programs   0.23 0.39 0.58
 Outside the United States   0.72 0.29 1.21
  Grants   0.65 0.22 1.11
  Scholarships   0.07 0.07 0.10
Sustainable Manufacturing and Operations11
Baxter Process-Related Toxic Air Emissions12 (metric tons)  27 18 22 20
 Cumene   n/a 2 4 3
 EtO   2 1 1 1 
 Methylene Chloride  2 1 1 2
 Methanol   0 0 0 0 
 DEHP  23 13 15 14
 Other  0 1 1 1
Kg Process-Related Toxic Air Emissions per Million Dollars of Sales  4 2 2 2
NOx and SOx Emissions13 (metric tons)  1,073 605 529 426
 NOx  454 379 385  362
 SOx   619 226 144  64
Kg NOx and SOx Emissions per Million Dollars of Sales  171 68 58  50
      SECTION AND INDICATOR  2013 2014 2015 SECTION AND INDICATOR  2013 2014 2015
27      BAXTER 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
Corporate 
Responsibility 
at BaxterProduct  
StewardshipEmployeesEthics and  
ComplianceSustainable  
Manufacturing  
and OperationsAccess to
HealthcareCommunity
EngagementPublic
PolicySupply 
Chain
Baxter 2015 Environmental Financial Statement APPENDIX:   Baxter 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report Performance Summary (continued)
27      BAXTER 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARYBaxter 2015 Environmental Financial Statement 
 
 
Sustainable Manufacturing and Operations11  (cont.)
Energy Usage from Baxter Operations14 (trillions of joules)  7,494 7,604 8,070 7,967 
 Asia Pacific  924 1,451 1,515 1,484
 EMEA  2,346 1,983 2,260 2,253
 Latin America  800 843 867 864
 North America  3,424 3,327 3,428 3,366
Billions of Joules per Million Dollars of Sales  1,197 854 885 941
Renewable Energy Purchased15 (trillions of joules)  n/a 2,119 2,213 1,884
Facility Usage of Renewable Energy16 (as a % of total energy use)  n/a 22% 22% 24%
Lean Energy Program Performance17 (% of program criteria implemented
across all manufacturing facilities, at year-end)
 Pre-requisite  n/a 91% 97% 97% 
 Bronze  n/a 88% 89% 91% 
 Silver  n/a 81% 82% 77%
 Gold  n/a 66% 68% 64%
Baxter's Global greenhouse gas (GHG) Emissions Footprint 
(Scope 1, 2, and 3) (metric tons CO2e). See Baxter 2015 Value Chain   
Energy Usage and GHG Emissions for detail   n/a 4,992,000 5,307,000 5,387,000
GHG Emissions from Baxter Operations18 (metric tons CO2e)  684,000 563,000 591,000 554,000 
 Asia Pacific  100,000 141,000 146,000 143,000 
 EMEA  183,000 118,000 153,000 114,000
 Latin America  67,000 62,000 63,000 57,000
 North America  334,000 242,000 229,000 240,000
GHG Emissions from Operations per Million Dollars of Sales19  
(metric tons CO2e)  109 63 65 65
Worldwide GHG Emissions from Product Transport, by Mode20 (metric tons CO2e) n/a 450,300 490,400 412,800  
 Air  n/a 125,000 124,000 90,600  
 Ocean  n/a 28,100 37,300 34,000   
 Rail  n/a 9,900 9,300 9,400 
 Ground  n/a 287,300 319,800 278,800 
Worldwide GHG Emissions from Product Transport, by Region21 (metric tons CO2e) n/a 450,300 490,400  412,800  
 Asia Pacific  n/a 68,300 62,300  48,900  
 EMEA  n/a 105,500 115,400 126,000  
 Latin America  n/a 73,800 82,000 45,800  
 North America  n/a 202,700 230,800 192,000 
Total Waste22 (metric tons)  51,210 51,840 55,010 55,280
 Asia Pacific  7,070 7,130 8,120 8,130 
 EMEA  15,650 16,030 17,900 17,010
 Latin America  4,640 9,160 7,470 6,390 
 North America  23,850 19,520 21,520 23,750 
Metric Tons of Total Waste per Million Dollars of Sales  8.18 5.83 6.03 6.53
Nonhazardous Waste23 (metric tons)  49,000 49,000 52,000 52,000
 Asia Pacific  7,000 7,000 8,000 8,000 
 EMEA  15,000 15,000 17,000 16,000
 Latin America  4,000 8,000 6,000 5,000 
 North America  23,000 19,000 21,000 23,000
Metric Tons of Nonhazardous Waste per Million Dollars of Sales  7.82 5.51 5.70 6.14
Regulated Waste24 (metric tons)  2,210 2,840 3,010 3,280 
 Asia Pacific  70 130 120 130 
 EMEA  650 1,030 900 1,010
 Latin America  640 1,160 1,470 1,390 
 North America  850 520 520 750
Metric Tons of Regulated Waste per Million Dollars of Sales  0.35 0.32 0.33 0.39
 
 
Sustainable Manufacturing and Operations11  (cont.)
Waste Management at Baxter25 (% of total)  
 Recycled (on-site or off-site)  n/a 54.4% 65.3%  55.7% 
 Incinerated with Energy Recovery  n/a 9.3% 4.5% 14.3% 
 Incinerated   n/a 3.8% 4.7% 4.3%
 Sent to Landfill   n/a 18.4% 20.0% 15.4%
 Other Disposal   n/a 14.1% 5.4% 10.3%
Water Usage (thousand cubic meters)  13,215 11,620 12,563 11,950
 Asia Pacific   2,152 2,833 3,116 2,870 
 EMEA  3,626 2,981 3,020 2,979
 Latin America   1,859 1,460 1,500 1,473 
 North America   5,578 4,346 4,927 4,628 
Thousand Cubic Meters Water Usage per Million Dollars of Sales  2.11 1.31 1.38 1.41
Water Usage, by Availability26 (thousand cubic meters)  12,043 10,916 13,105 12,810 
 Extreme Scarcity Water Resources  167 384 443 469
 Scarce Water Resources  505 583 667 584 
 Stressed Water Resources  3,347 3,185 3,862 3,652 
 Sufficient Water Resources  2,090 2,661 3,454 3,629
 Abundant Water Resources  5,934 4,103 4,679 4,476 
Wastewater Pollutants27 (total direct discharge, thousand cubic meters)   4,340 4,656 4,243 3,971 
 BOD5 (metric tons)  26 33 29 36    
 BOD5 (mg/L)  6 7 7 9 
 COD (metric tons)  111 99 113 94 
 COD (mg/L)  26 21 27 24 
 TSS (metric tons)  45 38 38 40 
 TSS (mg/L)  11 8 9 10 
Environmental Compliance   Environmental Notices of Violation  n/a 22 15
 10 
 Environmental Fines Paid (in dollars)  n/a $28,400 $0 $909
Environmental Financial Statement 
See Baxter 2015 Environmental Financial Statement for detail 
Supply Chain28
Payments to Suppliers (United States and Puerto Rico)   
(approximate, dollars in billions)   n/a $2.6 $3.5 $4.8
Supplier Diversity29 (dollars in millions)
 Payments to Small Businesses  n/a $422 $504  $762 
 Payments to Minority-Owned Businesses  n/a 37 32 42 
 Payments to Women-Owned Businesses  n/a 86 91 133
Political Contributions
See Baxter 2015 Political Contributions Report for detailed data  SECTION AND INDICATOR 2005 2013 2014 2015 SECTION AND INDICATOR 2005 2013 2014 2015
28      BAXTER 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
Corporate 
Responsibility 
at BaxterProduct  
StewardshipEmployeesEthics and  
ComplianceSustainable  
Manufacturing  
and OperationsAccess to
HealthcareCommunity
EngagementPublic
PolicySupply 
Chain
APPENDIX:   Baxter 2015 Value Chain Energy Usage and GHG Emissions
  Units 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015
Upstream Scope 3 Emissions   
Purchased Goods and Services (Category 1)3  n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 696 703
Capital Goods (Category 2)4  n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 116 114
Fuel and Energy-related Activities (Category 3)5  n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 132 128
Upstream Transportation and Distribution (Category 4)6  n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 409 413
Waste Generated in Operations (Category 5)7  n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 13 13
Business Travel (Category 6)8  n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 73 70
Employee Commuting (Category 7)9  n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 31 31
Upstream Leased Assets (Category 8)10  n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 1 1
Upstream Scope 3 Emissions Total  n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 1,471 1,473
Baxter Operations
Stationary Sources (facilities) 
Electricity (purchased) Million kWh 956 969 3,563 3,610 $114.9 $109.2 419 392
Electricity (on-site renewable) Million  kWh 2 3 7 11 n/a n/a n/a n/a
Natural Gas  Million Cubic Meters 103 105 3,947 4,035 41.6 39.5 199 204
Fuel Oil Million Liters 13 6 532 263 9.4 3.7 37 18
Propane and LPG Million Kilograms 3.8 6 185 266 3.6 3.8 12 17
Purchased Steam Million Kilograms 25 27 58 63 0.9 1.0 1 1
Biomass11 Million Kilograms 119 111 845 839 4.4 4.8 2 2
Carbon Dioxide Offsets12 Million Kilograms n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Subtotal  n/a n/a 9,137 9,087 $174.8 $162.0 670 634
Mobile Sources (Baxter operated vehicles)13
Aviation Fuel Million Liters 1.5 1.4 53 51 $1.9 $1.5 4 4
Gasoline  Million Liters 7.8 5.5 284 200 9.6 5.9 18 12
Diesel Fuel   Million Liters 14.0 11.5 538 443 19.7 10.8 38 32
Subtotal Million Liters  23.3 18.4 875 694 $31.2 $18.2 60 48
Refrigerants14
Refrigerant Losses (facilities) Metric Tons n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 21 15
Baxter Operations Total n/a n/a 10,012 9,781 $206.0 $180.2 751 697
Downstream Scope 3 Emissions   
Downstream Transportation and Distribution (Category 9)15  n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 146 147
Processing of Sold Products (Category 10)16  n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 15 15
Use of Sold Products (Category 11)17  n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 2,739 2,830
End-of-life Treatment of Sold Products (Category 12)17  n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 181 184
Downstream Leased Assets (Category 13)  n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a -- --
Franchises (Category 14)18  n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 0 0
Investments (Category 15)18  n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 4 41
Downstream Scope 3 Emissions Total  n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 3,085 3,217
Total  GHG E missions  (including CO2e offsets in Baxter operations)19 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 5,307 5,387Energy Usage Joules
(trillions )Energy Costs
(dollars in millions)Carbon Dioxide 
Equivalents1,2 
(thousand metric tons)
29      BAXTER 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
Corporate 
Responsibility 
at BaxterProduct  
StewardshipEmployeesEthics and  
ComplianceSustainable  
Manufacturing  
and OperationsAccess to
HealthcareCommunity
EngagementPublic
PolicySupply 
Chain
APPENDIX:   Baxter 2015 Environmental Financial Statement
 
 
Regulated Waste Disposal $0.3 $1.4 $0.8
Regulated Waste Materials 1.3 (18.6) (11.8)
Nonhazardous Waste Disposal 2.1 2.3 2.0
Nonhazardous Waste Materials 8.3 6.8 8.6
Energy Consumption 10.0 19.0 29.8
Water Consumption 1.0 2.4 4.8
Total $23.0 $13.3 $34.2  (dollars in millions)Cost Avoidance Detail from Efforts Initiated in the Six 
Years Prior to Report Year
 
 
 Income and  Cost  Total Financial
 Savings Avoidance Benefit
Regulated Waste Disposal Cost Reduction ($0.1) ($0.1) ($0.2)
Regulated Waste Materials Cost Reduction (19.1) 2.1 (17.0)
Nonhazardous Waste Disposal Cost Reduction (0.5) 1.0 0.5
Nonhazardous Waste Materials Cost Reduction (3.2) 3.7 0.5
Recycling Income  6.6 n/a 6.6
Energy Consumption Cost Reduction 12.7 (3.7) 9.0
Water Consumption Cost Reduction 0.1 1.2 1.3
Total ($3.5) $4.2 $0.7 Detail on Income, Savings and Cost Avoidance from 2015 Activities    (dollars in millions)
 
 
Basic Program
Corporate Environmental – General and Shared Business Unit Costs2 $3.1 $3.1 $3.1
Auditor and Attorney Fees 0.5 0.5 0.4
Energy Professionals and Energy Reduction Programs 1.3 1.5 1.4
Corporate Environmental – Information Technology 0.4 0.4 0.3
Business Unit/Regional/Facility Environmental Professionals and Programs 10.1 12.2 11.9
Pollution Controls – Operation and Maintenance 3.4 6.1 5.6
Pollution Controls – Depreciation 2.4 2.7 2.5
Basic Program Total $21.2 $26.5 $25.2
Remediation, Waste and Other Response (proactive environmental action will minimize these costs)  
Attorney Fees for Cleanup Claims and Notices of Violation $0.1 $0.2 $0.3
Settlement of Government Claims  0.0 0.0 0.0
Waste Disposal 6.9 9.1 10.3
Carbon Taxes, Credits and Offsets3 1.0 1.0 0.9
Environmental Fees for Packaging4 0.8 0.8 0.9
Environmental Fees for Electronic Goods and Batteries 0.0 0.0 0.0
Remediation/Cleanup – On-site 0.3 0.2 0.2
Remediation/Cleanup – Off-site 2.4 1.0 1.2
Remediation, Waste and Other Response Total $11.5 $12.3 $13.8
Total Environmental Costs $32.7 $38.8 $39.0
Environmental Income, Savings and Cost Avoidance   (dollars in millions)
From Initiatives in Stated Year
Regulated Waste Disposal ($0.2) ($0.5) $0.1
Regulated Materials5 (17.0) (11.2) (4.9)
Nonhazardous Waste Disposal 0.5 0.5 0.2
Nonhazardous Materials5 0.5 (0.2) 2.8
Recycling (net income) 6.6 6.1 7.2
Energy Conservation 9.0 (4.4) 3.4
Water Conservation 1.3 (1.0) 0.0
From Initiatives in Stated Year Total6 $0.7 ($10.7) $8.8
As a Percentage of Basic Program Costs 3% -40% 35%
Cost Avoidance from Initiatives Started in the Six Years
Prior to and Realized in Stated Year6,7 $23.0 $13.3 $34.2
Total Environmental Income, Savings and Cost Avoidance in Stated Year  $23.7 $2.6 $43.0
 Environmental Costs  (dollars in millions)BAXTER 2015 ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL STATEMENT    
Estimated Environmental Costs, Income, Savings and Cost Avoidance Worldwide1
2015 2014 20132015 2014 2013
 2015 2014 20132015 2014 2013
30      BAXTER 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
Corporate 
Responsibility 
at BaxterProduct  
StewardshipEmployeesEthics and  
ComplianceSustainable  
Manufacturing  
and OperationsAccess to
HealthcareCommunity
EngagementPublic
PolicySupply 
Chain
BAXTER 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES AND GOALS
1 In a comparison of 14 healthcare companies: eight reported global safety data to ORCHSE Strategies, five 
reported data on their public website and one reported data as requested by Baxter. 
2 A contributing factor was a 7% decrease in revenue in 2015 compared with 2014, even as production volumes 
remained steady. This reduction in revenue was driven primarily by unfavorable foreign currency impact.
BAXTER 2020 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES AND GOALS
1 United States and Puerto Rico. Fiscal year basis (October 1 through September 30 of the year noted). 
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
1 Baxter acquired Gambro AB on September 6, 2013.
2 This represents the total savings attributable to identified projects across the company, counted only for the 
first year the packaging innovation was implemented.
3 Ibid.
EMPLOYEES
1 Program was reinvigorated in 2016 
2 In a comparison of 14 healthcare companies: eight reported global safety data to ORCHSE Strategies, five 
reported data on their public website and one reported data as requested by Baxter. 
3 Beginning in 2011, profiles untouched for three years were removed from the active database. As of the beginning of 2015, the participation rate was 23%.
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
1 Houses of worship and political organizations are not eligible for the Foundation Matching Gift Program.
SUSTAINABLE MANUFACTURING AND OPERATIONS
1 The environmental data included in this report are based on 117 reporting locations, of which 49 are 
manufacturing, 24 are warehouse, and 44 are pharmacies, administrative, clerical or other. Several of the reporting units comprise multiple locations that report as a single entity. For example, in 2015, Baxter’s 55 renal therapy sites in Colombia reported as a single entity. The reporting scope excludes certain leased facilities and recent acquisitions for which environmental performance data are not available or are not material to Baxter’s overall environmental performance. In some sections, as indicated, the report includes new acquisitions, adding 11 manufacturing sites, and three other sites, for a total of 131 reporting locations. The health and safety data included in this report are based on 183 reporting locations. The EHS information reported covers 100% of Baxter’s operations unless noted otherwise. EHS data are revised to reflect acquisitions, divestitures and plant closings as well as to incorporate any corrections necessary due to additional data verification activities (such as EHS audits). See the 
Performance Summary  for additional detail. 
2 Applicable facilities are those sites for which Baxter’s corporate EHS audit group has the primary responsibility 
for periodic auditing.
3 Baxter reports “regulated waste” rather than “hazardous waste.” This term includes some materials that would 
otherwise be classified as nonhazardous in some countries, which helps Baxter harmonize its waste reporting across locations. In addition to wastes typically considered hazardous (such as toxics and corrosives), the company also includes oils, biohazardous or infectious materials, batteries, fluorescent lamps, asbestos and other materials that may not be defined as hazardous waste by national legislation at the point of origin. 
4 Incineration with energy recovery is considered recycling.
5 One cubic meter equals 1,000 liters or 264 gallons.
6 Water value stream mapping is an interactive, Lean manufacturing tool that helps facilities better understand 
the quantity and quality of water used in their processes and identify opportunities for reduction or reuse.
7 Extreme-scarcity areas have less than 500 cubic meters of renewable water resources per person per year. Water-scarce 
areas have at least 500 cubic meters but less than 1,000 cubic meters. Water-stressed areas have at least 1,000 cubic meters but less than 1,700 cubic meters. Water-sufficient areas have at least 1,700 cubic meters but less than 4,000 cubic meters. Water-abundant areas have greater than 4,000 cubic meters. Includes Gambro sites for 2014 and 2015.
8 The company's Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions have a high level of certainty and have been verified for the past six 
years to a reasonable assurance level by Bureau Veritas North America. Scope 3 categories are based on various assumptions and estimates. For the past four years, Bureau Veritas North America verified to a limited assurance level Baxter's methodology and emissions factors for calculating Scope 3 GHG emissions. Baxter continues to refine its understanding of its GHG emissions footprint and to implement emissions reduction strategies.
9 In 2015, Baxter used biomass fuels to generate energy in boilers at three Baxter locations in the United States, 
India and Italy. Additionally, another of the company’s facilities in India purchases steam from a biomass-fueled boiler owned and operated by a third party. During the year, emissions from the Baxter-operated biomass boilers equaled 123,000 metric tons CO
2 and emissions from the third party-operated biomass boiler equaled 7,000 
metric tons CO 2. In accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, these are not included in reported Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 emissions. However, also in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, the company includes CO 2e 
emissions from the CH4 and N2O components of biomass combustion in its reported Scope 1 emissions.
10 U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Green Power Partnership Fortune 500 Partners List, January 25, 2016. APPENDIX:   Endnotes
SUPPLY CHAIN
1 Direct suppliers provide goods and services that are part of, or used in the manufacturing of, Baxter’s products 
and services. Indirect suppliers provide other goods and services that support Baxter’s business.
PUBLIC POLICY
1 U.S. Health and Human Services website: http:/ /www.hrsa.gov/opa/ 
BAXTER 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
1 Work-related injuries or illnesses requiring medical attention beyond first-aid, including cases with days lost. Global rates for 2015 include Gambro. Global rates prior to 2015 do not. Regional rates for all years do not include Gambro. Data for 2005–2014 include sites which became Baxalta on July 1, 2015. Data for 2015 do not include Baxalta sites. All rates based on 100 full-time employees working one year, which equals 200,000 work hours. For tracking purposes, Baxter follows U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration recordkeeping requirements worldwide. Thus, in cases where an injury occurs and conflicting medical opinions arise as to the number of days away and/or restricted days that should be recorded, Baxter records on the basis of the most authoritative physician’s opinion. Rates exclude acquisitions until January 1 of the first year following at least 18 months with Baxter. Baxter includes occupational diseases and illnesses, such as hearing loss and ergonomic disorders within its broader categories of cases, but does not track or report those items separately. Due to privacy regulations in the company’s Europe, Middle East and Africa region, Baxter does not classify or report injuries by gender. Supervised contracted employees are included in the injury statistics reported below and are not tracked separately. Independent contractors are not included in Baxter’s injury data as they are supervised by other organizations.
2 Work-related injuries or illnesses that cause an employee to lose at least one full day after the date of the incident. Global rates for 2015 include Gambro. Global rates prior to 2015 do not. Regional rates for all years do not include Gambro. Data for 2005–2014 include sites which became Baxalta on July 1, 2015. Data for 2015 do not include Baxalta sites.
3 The number of days lost (including weekends and holidays) recommended by the most authoritative physician's opinion due to work-related injuries or illnesses. Baxter does not count the date of injury and date of return to full duty as lost days. Global rates for 2015 include Gambro. Global rates prior to 2015 do not. Regional rates for all years do not include Gambro. Data for 2005–2014 include sites which became Baxalta on July 1, 2015. Data for 2015 do not include Baxalta sites.
4 The number of days recommended by the most authoritative physician's opinion that an employee or supervised contractor is unable to work full duty (including weekends and holidays) due to a work-related injury or illness. Baxter does not count the date of injury and date of return to full duty as restricted days. Global rates for 2015 include Gambro. Global rates prior to 2015 do not. Regional rates for all years do not include Gambro. Data for 2005–2014 include sites which became Baxalta on July 1, 2015. Data for 2015 do not include Baxalta sites.
5 2015 data include Gambro. Data prior to 2015 do not. Data for 2005–2014 include sites which became Baxalta on July 1, 2015. Data for 2015 do not include Baxalta sites.
6 2015 data include Gambro. Data for 2005–2014 include sites which became Baxalta on July 1, 2015. Data for 2015 do not include Baxalta sites.
7 Ibid.
8 Data do not include Gambro. Data for 2013 and 2014 include sites which became Baxalta on July 1, 2015. Data for 2015 do not include Baxalta sites.
9 Some subtotals vary from sum of items in category, due to rounding.
10 Variations in Baxter's annual product donations are due to fluctuations in community needs, the need and volume of disaster relief response, the regulatory environment, manufacturing processes and changes in product mix and marketing. The company identifies opportunities to donate and responds to community requests as appropriate. See 
Access to Healthcare .
11 Data for all years reported exclude sites that became Baxalta on July 1, 2015, unless otherwise noted. Data from Gambro are also excluded, unless otherwise noted. Some totals vary from sum of items in category, due to rounding.
12 Totals reflect the removal of methyl ethyl ketone (MEK) as an air toxic by the United States Environmental Protection Agency. EtO = ethylene oxide; DEHP = Di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate.
13 Includes air emissions associated with on-site energy generation. Emission factors from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency publication Compilation of Air Pollutant Emission Factors, AP-42, Fifth Edition, Volume 1: Stationary Point and Area Sources.
14 Includes stationary sources (Stationary Sources (facilities) Subtotal line item from Baxter 2015 Value Chain Energy Usage and GHG Emissions table) and excludes energy consumption associated with Baxter-operated mobile sources, materials and product delivery and employee commuting and travel.
15 Data for 2015 include Gambro and do not include sites which became a part of Baxalta on July 1, 2015. Data for 2013 and 2014 include sites which are now a part of Baxalta.
16 Data for 2014 and 2015 include Gambro and exclude sites that became a part of Baxalta on July 1, 2015. Data for 2013 include sites that are now a part of Baxalta.
17 Lean Energy Program began in 2007. Data include Gambro sites for 2014 and 2015.
18 Excludes data from Gambro. Data for 2005, 2014 and 2015 exclude sites that became a part of Baxalta on July 1, 2015. Data for 2013 include sites that are now a part of Baxalta.
19 Ibid.31      BAXTER 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
Corporate 
Responsibility 
at BaxterProduct  
StewardshipEmployeesEthics and  
ComplianceSustainable  
Manufacturing  
and OperationsAccess to
HealthcareCommunity
EngagementPublic
PolicySupply 
Chain
APPENDIX:   Endnotes (continued)
BAXTER 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PERFORMANCE SUMMARY  
(continued)
20Data for 2015 include Gambro and do not include sites which became a part of Baxalta on July 1, 2015. Data for 
2013 and 2014 include sites which are now a part of Baxalta.
21 Ibid.
22Excludes waste associated with U.S. Renal Home Care operations since patients may now dispose of unused 
product rather than returning it to Baxter for disposal. Also excludes construction and demolition debris, 
remediation waste and wastewater treatment sludge. Removing these waste categories from the company total allows for more consistent evaluation of facility performance and trends over time.
23Excludes production by-products reused on-site, construction and demolition debris and wastewater treatment sludge. 
Includes discarded/returned products (such as intravenous solution, dextrose solution, etc.) which are nonhazardous in nature but may be classified as regulated in some countries. Excludes waste associated with U.S. Renal Home Care operations since patients may now dispose of unused product rather than returning it to Baxter for disposal.
24Excludes waste recycled on-site, remediation waste, construction and demolition debris and wastewater 
treatment sludge. Includes certain waste streams (such as waste oils, batteries, fluorescent lamps, light ballasts and asbestos) not classified as regulated in some locations.
25Data include Gambro in 2015 and for 2014 and 2015 excludes sites that became a part of Baxalta on July 1, 2015.
26Water usage from Baxter's 59 sites with the greatest use, representing 97% of the company's total annual 
water consumption. Availability of renewable water supplies evaluated using the World Business Council for Sustainable Development Global Water Tool. Extreme-scarcity areas have less than 500 cubic meters of renewable water resources per person per year. Water-scarce areas have at least 500 cubic meters but less than 1,000 cubic meters. Water-stressed areas have at least 1,000 cubic meters but less than 1,700 cubic meters. Water-sufficient areas have at least 1,700 cubic meters but less than 4,000 cubic meters. Water-abundant areas have greater than 4,000 cubic meters. Includes Gambro sites for 2014 and 2015.
27Estimated total water pollutant levels for treated wastewater discharged directly into waterways. Data do not 
include two facilities that operate zero-discharge systems in accordance with local regulatory requirements. BOD
5 refers to five-day biological oxygen demand; COD refers to chemical oxygen demand; TSS refers to total 
suspended solids. When actual performance data were not available, estimates are based on performance at similar facilities or on other measured performance indicators.
28Data include sites which became a part of Baxalta on July 1, 2015.
29United States and Puerto Rico. Fiscal year basis (October 1 through September 30 of the year noted). Accounts 
payable data are sent to a third party, which categorizes spending. Other categories include veteran-owned, disability-owned, service disabled veteran-owned, small disadvantaged and HUBZone-certified businesses. HUBZone is a U.S. Small Business Administration program for small companies that operate and employ people in Historically Underutilized Business Zones (HUBZones).
BAXTER 2015 VALUE CHAIN ENERGY USAGE AND GHG EMISSIONS
1 Baxter used the World Resources Institute and World Business Council for Sustainable Development 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol  to calculate emissions data from fossil fuel use. The company used country electricity 
emission factors published by the International Energy Agency and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) E-Grid U.S. regional electricity emission factors to calculate GHG emissions related to electricity consumption. Data in this table include Gambro and exclude sites that became Baxalta on July 1, 2015.
2 Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. verified to a reasonable level Baxter’s 2014 and 2015 Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. also verified Baxter’s methodology for determining 2014 and 2015 Scope 3 GHG emissions to a limited level.
3 Baxter engaged an independent third party to estimate GHG emissions associated with purchased goods and services using an environmentally extended input-output model and Baxter's revenue and sector of operation.
4 Estimated 2015 GHG emissions based upon 2015 capital expenditures reported in Baxter’s annual reports and an estimated emission factor per million dollars of capital expenditure based in part upon benchmarking with industry. Emissions were prorated to 2014 using changes in revenue at constant currency rates.
5 GHG emissions calculated based upon Baxter’s actual yearly energy usage by energy type and GHG emission factors for each energy type per GaBi life cycle assessment software.
6 Upstream transportation and distribution GHG emissions determined by the company’s independent transportation service provider based on shipment of products to Baxter customers in 2015 and prorated to 2014 using changes in revenue at constant currency rates.
7 Estimated emissions for wastewater treatment by municipalities, and off-site waste recycling and disposal based on Baxter’s waste generation by type, guidance provided by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection (United States) and the U.S. EPA WARM model.
8 Baxter calculated emissions associated with employee use of commercial airlines, rental cars and hotel stays based in part on data provided by company travel providers. Airline companies used by Baxter provided data regarding distances flown by Baxter employees in five geographic regions. Baxter used emission factors per UK Defra DECC GHG information to calculate associated GHG emissions. Information from travel providers regarding rental car distance traveled and number of hotel room stays along with emission factors based upon assumed vehicle fuel efficiency and average hotel room stay emissions per Conservation International were used to calculate reported GHG emissions.
9 GHG emissions related to employee commuting were estimated by an independent third party based on the number of Baxter employees by country and statistics on commuting time and transport mode split into public 
transport, passenger cars, taxi and motorcycle and walking or bicycling. GHG emission factors for each mode 
were obtained from Defra.
10 Emissions associated with upstream leased assets for 2015 were estimated by an independent third-party firm using an environmentally extended input-output model and Baxter's spend on leased assets. Emissions for 2014 
were assumed to be similar.
11 Baxter used the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition 
to determine GHG emissions associated with using biomass fuel, principally wood/wood waste, as a boiler fuel at three Baxter locations. These emissions were calculated as 126,000 and 123,000 metric tons CO
2 in 2014 and 
2015, respectively. CO2e emissions from CH4 and N2O components of biomass combustion included in reported 
Scope 1 emissions.
12 Includes the purchase of electricity generated from 100% certified renewable electricity (Austria, Brazil, Spain, Switzerland, United Kingdom and United States), and the purchase of carbon credits from the EU Emissions Trading Scheme and the Chicago Climate Exchange/InterContinental Exchange (United States) that were retired in 2014 and 2015.
13 Baxter used the Greenhouse Gas Protocol to estimate GHG emissions associated with reported fuel usage by company-managed sales and distribution fleet vehicles and other vehicles. The company estimated fuel usage for international sales and distribution vehicles based on regional sales information.
14 Refrigerant emissions represent reported CFC, HCFC and HFC refrigerant losses by each Baxter location. Baxter calculated associated GHG emissions using actual emission factors for each reported refrigerant.
15 Baxter engaged an independent third party to calculate GHG emissions associated with downstream transportation and distribution based on previous LCAs performed by Baxter as well as Baxter’s revenue by product type. Category 1 emissions were extrapolated to other categories depending on the product type.
16 Baxter engaged an independent third party to estimate GHG emissions associated with the processing of sold products for 2015 using an environmentally extended input-output model and revenue from Baxter's contract services business. Emissions for 2014 were assumed to be similar.
17 Baxter estimated the emissions associated with the use and final disposition of products based upon available product production quantities and global warming potential information available for certain types of products. Emissions for certain other products were estimated by an independent third-party firm based on previous LCAs performed by Baxter as well as Baxter’s revenue by product type, by extrapolating Baxter's category 1 emissions to other categories depending on the product type.
18 Baxter engaged an independent third party to estimate GHG emissions associated with investments using an environmentally extended input-output model, Baxter's retained shares in the spin-off of Baxalta, and Baxalta's 2015 revenue and sector of operation.
19 Totals do not include CO2 emissions from Baxter-owned wood-fired boilers. See footnote 11 above for detail.
BAXTER 2015 ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL STATEMENT
1 Data for 2015 include Gambro and do not include sites which became a part of Baxalta on July 1, 2015. Data for all years prior to 2015 include sites which are now a part of Baxalta. Financial numbers rounded to nearest US$100,000 to reflect appropriate degree of data accuracy.
2 Corporate environmental costs comprise total environmental costs related to operating corporate environmental programs that report into Baxter manufacturing and legal groups. While corporate Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) and certain business unit EHS groups were integrated in 2003, total business unit program costs remain in the Business Unit/Regional/Facility Environmental Professionals and Programs line, as those environmental costs more directly support facility programs.  
3 Carbon taxes, expenses associated with purchasing renewable energy from electric utilities, renewable energy certificates and carbon credits purchased on the European Union ETS and Chicago Climate Exchange (CCX), through the U.S. Intercontinental Exchange. 
4 Following completion of the 1996–2005 packaging-reduction goal, Baxter discontinued tracking program costs and financial savings associated with packaging-reduction initiatives at the corporate level. Baxter may reinstitute this line item in future financial statements.  
5 Reflects change (positive for decrease and negative for increase) for purchases of raw materials due to changes in material use efficiency and associated generation of waste.  
6 In calculating savings and cost avoidance for waste-, energy- and water-reduction activities, it is assumed that production and distribution activities grew proportionately with Baxter’s publicly-stated cost of goods sold, adjusted for changes in inventory and the average of three inflation indexes.  
7 To be conservative, the accumulation of reported cost avoidance from conservation activities in prior years is terminated after seven years, the approximate duration of many facility conservation and process-improvement projects, after which additional process improvements and changes are possible.32      BAXTER 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
Corporate 
Responsibility 
at BaxterProduct  
StewardshipEmployeesEthics and  
ComplianceSustainable  
Manufacturing  
and OperationsAccess to
HealthcareCommunity
EngagementPublic
PolicySupply 
Chain
APPENDIX:   Independent Assurance Statement
Introduction and objectives of work
Baxter engaged Bureau Veritas North America, 
Inc. (BVNA) of the Bureau Veritas Group to 
conduct an independent assurance of selected 
sections in Baxter’s 2015 Corporate Responsibility 
Performance Summary (the Report). Baxter has 
commissioned assurance for the EHS section of its annual corporate responsibility/sustainability report for the past 17 years.
This Assurance Statement applies to the related information included within the scope of work described below. That information and 
its presentation in the Report is the sole responsibility of Baxter 
management. BVNA was not involved in the drafting of the Report. Our sole responsibility was to provide independent assurance on the accuracy and reliability of information included, and on the underlying 
systems and processes used to collect, analyze and review the 
selected pages of the Report.
Scope of work
Baxter requested BVNA to conduct reasonable level assurance of the following:
Data and information included in the following sections of the Report:
• Product Stewardship (except the Quality and Patient Safety 
subsections)
• Employee Health and Safety content from the Employees section
• Sustainable Manufacturing and Operations (except for content 
related to the Environmental Financial Statement)
Baxter requested BVNA to conduct limited level assurance of the following:
Data and information included in the following section of the Report:
• Supply Chain
Excluded from the scope of our work is any assurance of information 
relating to:
• Activities outside the defined assurance period, the calendar year 
of 2015;
• Positional statements (expressions of opinion, belief, aim or future 
intention) by Baxter and statements of future commitment;
• Any financial data previously audited by an external third party; and
• Data and information included in sections of the Report that are 
not listed in the scope of work above.
Methodology
Our work was conducted against BVNA’s standard procedures and guidelines for external Assurance of Sustainability Reports, based 
on the requirements of the International Standard on Assurance 
Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000) as the reference assurance standard and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines as the reference reporting protocol.
The work was planned and carried out to provide reasonable, rather 
than absolute, assurance except for the Supply Chain section that was carried out to provide limited assurance. We believe that our work provides an appropriate basis for our conclusions.
As part of BVNA’s reasonable assurance, BVNA undertook the 
following activities:
1.  Interviews with relevant Baxter personnel and select individuals 
responsible for collecting and reporting Environmental, Health 
and Safety (EHS); Product Responsibility; Supply Chain and Product Transport performance data and other information. These interviews included discussion with management 
personnel and staff members responsible for preparing text and 
contributing data for sections of the Report within the scope of this assurance;
2.  Review of documentary evidence produced by Baxter to support information presented in sections of the Report within the scope of this assurance;
3.  Evaluation of the information presented in the Report sections based on consideration of the GRI G4 Guidelines with emphasis 
on principles of accuracy, accessibility, balance, clarity, 
comparability, reliability and timeliness;
4.  Audit of performance data including review of a sample of data 
to source documentation during visits to manufacturing sites 
located in: Cartago, Costa Rica; Englewood, Colorado, United States; Marion, North Carolina, United States; and Suzhou, China 
and a research and development site located in Suzhou, China.
5.  Audit of performance data including review of a sample of data 
to source documentation through remote interviews with the 
manufacturing site located in Toongabbie, Australia.
6.  Review of Baxter data and information systems used for collection, aggregation, analysis and review of information 
subject to assurance during visits to Baxter’s corporate EHS office in Round Lake, Illinois.
Our findings
On the basis of our methodology and the activities described above, it is our opinion that the data and information within the Product 
Stewardship (except the Quality and Patient Safety subsections), 
Employee Health and Safety content from the Employees section and Sustainable Manufacturing and Operations (except for the content related to the Environmental Financial Statement) sections 
of the Report:
• are accurate, reliable and free from material mistake or 
misstatement;
• are presented in a clear, understandable and accessible manner;
• provide a fair and balanced representation of activities; and
• allow readers to form a balanced opinion of Baxter’s activities and performance during the calendar year of 2015.
In addition, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the 
data and information in the Supply Chain section are inaccurate or 
that the information is not fairly stated.
It is also our opinion that Baxter has established appropriate systems 
for the collection, aggregation, analysis and review of relevant 
information and data in the sections of the Report within the scope of this assurance.Additional commentary
During the assurance process, BVNA was pleased to observe that Baxter has:
• Reported final status of progress related to Baxter’s 2015 
priorities and goals in an accurate and balanced manner;
• Successfully transitioned corporate rollup of environmental data 
following change of personnel due to split of the company during 
2015; and
• Established new priorities and goals with a baseline of 2015 and a goal year of 2020.
Based on the work conducted, we recommend Baxter consider the 
following:
• Update the tools used for consolidating environmental data and 
calculating GHG emissions. The current tools have been used 
since 2005 to track progress towards 2015 goals. The tools can 
now be streamlined to provide tracking towards 2020 goals; and
• Provide periodic training and mentoring of site personnel 
responsible for corporate responsibility data reporting to help 
ensure accuracy of reported information.
Statement of independence, impartiality and 
competence
The Bureau Veritas Group is an independent professional services 
company that specializes in Quality, Health, Safety, Social and 
Environmental management with over 180 years history in providing 
independent assurance services, and an annual 2015 revenue of 4.6 Billion Euros.
No member of the assurance team has a business relationship 
with Baxter, its Directors or Managers beyond that required of this assignment. We have conducted this verification independently, and 
there has been no conflict of interest.
The Bureau Veritas Group has implemented a Code of Ethics across 
the business to maintain high ethical standards among staff in their 
day-to-day business activities.
The assurance team has extensive experience in conducting 
assurance over environmental, social, ethical and health and safety 
information, systems and processes and an excellent understanding of the Bureau Veritas Group’s standard methodology for the Assurance of Corporate Responsibility Reports.
Bureau Veritas North America, Inc.
Denver, COAugust 201633      BAXTER 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
Corporate 
Responsibility 
at BaxterProduct  
StewardshipEmployeesEthics and  
ComplianceSustainable  
Manufacturing  
and OperationsAccess to
HealthcareCommunity
EngagementPublic
PolicySupply 
Chain
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX 
This report contains Standard Disclosures from the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (undeclared).
Disclosure  Description  2015 Reporting Disclosure  Description  2015 Reporting
General Standard Disclosures
Strategy and Analysis
G4-1 Statement from the CEO From the Chairman and CEO
Organizational Profile 
G4-3 Name of the organization Company Profile
G4-4 Primary brands, products and services Baxter 2015 Annual Report
G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters Baxter’s headquarters are located in  
  Deerfield, Illinois, United States,  
  approximately 20 miles north of  
  Chicago.
G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates, Baxter 2015 Annual Report  
 and names of countries where either the organization  
 has significant operations or that are specifically  
 relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report 
G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Baxter International Inc. (BAX) is a  
  publicly-traded company listed on  
  the New York Stock Exchange.
G4-8 Markets served Baxter 2015 Annual Report
G4-9 Scale of the organization Sustainable Manufacturing and   
  Operations ; Baxter 2015 Annual   
  Report
G4-10 Employee demographics Performance Summary
G4-12 Description of the organization’s supply chain Supply Chain
G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period Baxter 2015 Annual Report  
 regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership  
 or its supply chain 
G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or Product Stewardship ; Baxter’s  
 principle is addressed by the organization products are regulated by health  
  authorities around the world, and  
  the company is required to provide  
  extensive scientific data related to  
  the safety and efficacy of those  
  products in order to obtain licensure  
  by regulatory authorities.
G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting  Guide-  
 social charters, principles or other initiatives to which  lines; ISO 14001 standard; OHSAS 18001
 the organization subscribes or which it endorses standard; Greenhouse Gas Protocol
G4-16 Memberships of associations and national or American Society for Parenteral and  
 international advocacy organizations Enteral Nutrition; AmeriCares; Direct 
  Relief; Diversity Best Practices;   
  Healthcare Business Women's Association  
  National Kidney Foundation; Partnership 
  for Quality Medical Donations; Society of 
  Corporate Compliance and Ethics; The  Oley 
  Foundation; US-ASEAN Business Council
Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries
G4-17 Entities included in the organization’s consolidated Baxter 2015 Annual Report  
 financial statements or equivalent documents and whether  
 any of those entities are not covered by the report
G4-18 Process for defining report content and Aspect Corporate Responsibility Approach  
 BoundariesGeneral Standard Disclosures (cont.)Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries (cont.)
G4-19 Material Aspects Corporate Responsibility Approach
G4-20 Material Aspects within the organization Corporate Responsibility Approach
G4-21 Material Aspects outside the organization Corporate Responsibility Approach
G4-22 Effect of restatements Noted in sections as relevant
Stakeholder Engagement 
G4-24 List of stakeholder groups Baxter's main stakeholder groups  
  include patients/healthcare providers,  
   employees, communities, governments/  
  payers and shareholders.
G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement ; 
 with whom to engage Baxter 2016 Proxy Statement
G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement ;
  Baxter 2016 Proxy Statement  
Report Profile 
G4-28 Reporting period Calendar year 2015
G4-29 Date of most recent previous report June 2015
G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual
G4-31 Contact point for questions about report corporate_responsibility_report  
  @baxter.com
G4-32 Global Reporting Initiative index Global Reporting Initiative Index
G4-33 Assurance Assurance and Verification
Governance 
G4-34 Governance structure of the organization Corporate Governance
G4-35 Process for delegating authority for economic, Corporate Responsibility Approach  
 environmental and social topics from the highest  
 governance body to senior executives and other  
 employees 
G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and Corporate Governance  
 its committees 
G4-39 Whether Chair of the highest governance body is also Corporate Governance  
 an executive officer 
G4-40 Nomination and selection processes for the highest Corporate Governance  
 governance body and its committees 
G4-41 Processes for the highest governance body to ensure Corporate Governance  
 conflicts of interest are avoided and managed 
G4-47 Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of Corporate Responsibility Approach  
 economic, environmental and social impacts, risks  
 and opportunities 
G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns to the How to Contact Board of Directors  
 highest governance body 
G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest governance Corporate Governance ; Baxter 2016  
 body and senior executives Proxy Statement  
G4-52 Process for determining remuneration Corporate Governance ; Baxter 2016   
  Proxy Statement
  34      BAXTER 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
Corporate 
Responsibility 
at BaxterProduct  
StewardshipEmployeesEthics and  
ComplianceSustainable  
Manufacturing  
and OperationsAccess to
HealthcareCommunity
EngagementPublic
PolicySupply 
Chain
Disclosure  Description  2015 Reporting Disclosure  Description  2015 Reporting
General Standard Disclosures (cont.)
Ethics and Integrity 
G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of Ethics and Compliance  
 behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics 
G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on Ethics and Compliance  
 ethical and lawful behavior 
G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns Employees ; Ethics and Compliance ; 
 about unethical or unlawful behavior Sustainable Manufacturing and   
  Operations ; Supply Chain
Specific Standard Disclosures Economic Economic Performance 
G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Community Engagement ;   
  Performance Summary ; Baxter 2015   
  Annual Report
G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities Baxter's CDP submission   
 for the organization due to climate change 
Indirect Economic Impacts 
G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments Access to Healthcare ; Community  
 and services supported Engagement
G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the Access to Healthcare ; Supply Chain  
 extent of impacts 
Environmental 
Energy 
G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Sustainable Manufacturing and   
  Operations ; Performance Summary
G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization Sustainable Manufacturing and   
  Operations; Performance Summary
G4-EN5 Energy intensity Sustainable Manufacturing and  
  Operations; Performance Summary
G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Sustainable Manufacturing and   
  Operations
Water 
G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Sustainable Manufacturing and   
  Operations; Performance Summary
G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal Sustainable Manufacturing and  
 of water Operations; Performance Summary
G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused  Sustainable Manufacturing and   
  Operations  
Emissions
G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Sustainable Manufacturing and   
  Operations; Performance Summary ;  
  Baxter 2015 Value Chain Energy   
  Usage and GHG Emissions
G4-EN16 Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) Sustainable Manufacturing and   
  Operations; Performance Summary ;  
  Baxter 2015 Value Chain Energy    
  Usage and GHG EmissionsSpecific Standard Disclosures (cont.)
Environmental (cont.)Emissions (cont.) 
G4-EN17 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) Sustainable Manufacturing and   
  Operations ; Performance Summary ;  
  Baxter 2015 Value Chain Energy   
  Usage and GHG Emissions
G4-EN18 GHG emissions intensity Sustainable Manufacturing and   
  Operations; Performance Summary
G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions Sustainable Manufacturing and   
  Operations
Effluents and Waste 
G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination Performance Summary
G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Sustainable Manufacturing and   
  Operations; Performance Summary
Products and Services 
G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of Product Stewardship  
 products and services 
G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging Product Stewardship  
 materials that are reclaimed by category 
Compliance 
G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Performance Summary  
 non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with  
 environmental laws and regulations 
Transport 
G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting Sustainable Manufacturing and  
 products and other goods and materials for the Operations; Performance Summary ; 
 organization's operations and of transporting members Baxter 2015 Value Chain Energy   
 of the workforce Usage and GHG Emissions
Overall 
G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and Environmental Financial Statement  
 investments by type 
Supplier Environmental Assessment 
G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental Supply Chain ; Baxter 2015 Value  
 impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Chain Energy Usage and GHG   
  Emissions
Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment 
G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and Performance Summary  
 employee turnover by age group, gender and region 
G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are Employees ; All benefits are generally  
 not provided to temporary or part-time employees, provided to full-time and part-time  
 by significant locations of operation employees.35      BAXTER 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
Corporate 
Responsibility 
at BaxterProduct  
StewardshipEmployeesEthics and  
ComplianceSustainable  
Manufacturing  
and OperationsAccess to
HealthcareCommunity
EngagementPublic
PolicySupply 
Chain
Specific Standard Disclosures (cont.)
Labor Practices and Decent Work (cont.) Labor/Management Relations 
G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, Minimum notice period varies by  
 including whether these are specified in collective country. The length of the notice  
 agreements period is dependent on the type of  
  change being made. Baxter is  
  committed to providing appropriate  
  notice and follows all relevant  
  consultation and notice requirements.
Occupational Health and Safety 
G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, Employees ; Performance Summary  
 lost days and absenteeism, and total number of  
 work-related fatalities, by region and by gender 
Training and Education 
G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by Employees  
 gender and by employee category 
G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning Employees  
 that support the continued employability of employees  
 and assist them in managing career endings 
G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Employees  
 and career development reviews, by gender and by  
 employee category 
Diversity and Equal Opportunity 
G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of Employees ; Corporate Governance  
 employees per employee category according to gender,  
 age group, minority group membership and other  
 indicators of diversity 
Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms 
G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed,  Ethics and Compliance  
 addressed and resolved through formal grievance  
 mechanisms 
Human Rights Nondiscrimination 
G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and In addition to alleged cases of  
 corrective actions discrimination and harassment that  
  may be handled locally, Baxter’s  
  Ethics and Compliance helpline  
  and information management system  
  logged 29 allegations of discrimination  
  and harassment in 2015. Baxter  
  encourages employees to seek  
  guidance and report concerns  
  through a number of formal channels.  
  Through these channels, Baxter  
  identifies incidents, prevents incidents  
  from occurring and addresses issues  
  when they do arise. Items identified  
  through these channels help Ethics  
  and Compliance managers identify key  
  risks, develop appropriate training and  
  design and apply compliance  
  assessment methodologies.Specific Standard Disclosures (cont.)Human Rights (cont.)Child Labor 
G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant Supply Chain ; Baxter Global Human  
 risk for incidents of child labor, and measures to Rights Policy ; Baxter Code of Conduct ; 
 contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Baxter Supplier Quality Standard ; 
  Ethics and Compliance Standards for  
  Baxter Suppliers ; Conflict Minerals   
  Position Statement ; Pharmaceutical   
  Supply Chain Initiative
Forced or Compulsory Labor 
G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant Supply Chain ; Baxter Global Human  
 risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and Rights Policy ; Baxter Code of Conduct ;  
 measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of Baxter Supplier Quality Standard ; 
 forced or compulsory labor Ethics and Compliance Standards for  
  Baxter Suppliers ; Baxter California   
  Transparency in Supply Chains Act ;  
  Conflict Minerals Position Statement ;  
  Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative
Society Anticorruption 
G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks Ethics and Compliance  
 related to corruption and the significant risks identified  
G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies Ethics and Compliance  
 and procedures 
Public Policy 
G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and Baxter 2015 Political Contributions  
 recipient/beneficiary Report
Compliance
G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Baxter 2015 Annual Report  
 non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws  
 and regulations 
Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society 
G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, Ethics and Compliance  
 addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 
Product Responsibility Customer Health and Safety 
G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for Product Stewardship  
 which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement 
G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of noncompliance with Baxter 2015 Annual Report  
 regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and  
 safety impacts of products and services during their life  
 cycle, by type of outcomes  
Compliance 
G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with Baxter 2015 Annual Report  
 laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of  
 products and services Disclosure  Description  2015 Reporting Disclosure  Description  2015 ReportingBaxter International Inc.  
One Baxter Parkway  
Deerfield, Illinois 60015-4625
USA
www.baxter.com
© Baxter International Inc., 2016. All rights reserved.
The matters discussed in this Baxter 2015 Corporate Responsibility Performance Summary that are not historical facts are 
forward-looking statements, including statements with respect to future company compliance and performance. These 
statements involve numerous risks and uncertainties. Many factors could affect the company’s actual results, causing 
results to differ, possibly materially, from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. These factors include actions of regulatory bodies and other governmental authorities including the following, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements: a material adverse change in the hospital products 
or renal products businesses; satisfaction of regulatory and other requirements; actions of regulatory bodies and other 
governmental authorities; clinical trial results; changes in laws and regulations; product quality, manufacturing or supply issues and patient safety issues. The company disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
References in this report to Baxter are intended to refer collectively to Baxter International Inc. and its U.S. and international subsidiaries.
Baxter, DoseEdge, Science@Work:Expanding Minds with Real World Science, Sigma Spectrum and Viaflo are trademarks of Baxter International Inc., or its subsidiaries. 
Any other trademarks, product brand names or images appearing herein are the property of their respective owners.Cover Photo: 
Two former CNN Heroes of the Year and Direct Relief CEO, Thomas 
Tighe, help unload medical products designated to deliver care to those impacted by the 2015 Nepal earthquake. Due to the company's manufacture-to-donate process, Baxter products were among the first to arrive on scene. 
Photo credit: Direct Relief
History in Corporate Responsibility  
Baxter’s commitment to corporate responsibility 
spans decades. Milestones have included:
1977 Established the company’s first formal 
environmental program, policy and energy conservation initiatives
1992 Released Baxter’s first environmental report
1993  Established the Corporate Responsibility Office to oversee the company’s ethics and compliance practices
2000  Published Baxter’s first sustainability report
2001  Developed Baxter’s Global Business Practice Standards for Suppliers
2002  Commenced Baxter’s Product Sustainability Review process 
2007  Established the company’s Corporate Responsibility Council
2013  Recognized as one of the most civic-minded companies in the United States for the first time by Points of Light as part of The Civic 50
2014  Recognized as one of only 15 companies to have been included on the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index each year since 
the index was created in 1999
2015  Conducted the company’s first comprehensive,  
non-financial, corporate responsibility 
materiality assessment