	  
 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/chairman -ceo-letter.html 
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Sustainability at Baxter  
From the Chairman and CEO  
 
 
 
Dear Stakeholders  
At Baxter, sustainability means creating lasting social, environmental and economic value by addressing the needs of our wide -
ranging stakeholder base. Our goal is to realize today’ s priorities and commitments in a way that ensures that our company and the 
many who depend on us can continue to th rive for generations to come.  
We serve a broad array of constituencies in our mission to save and sustain lives: patients and healthcare pro fessionals, who rely on 
today’s products and tomorrow’s innovations; governments, insurers and other institutions and business partners that count on our 
ongoing collaboration; our employees, who seek a safe, inclusive workplace and professional growth opp ortunities; shareholders, who 
expect and deserve a return  on their investment; and communities around the world, where we positively impact health while 
contributing to economic growth. We succeed as a business by operating responsibly in service of these diverse stakeholders – 
which, in turn, ensures we can continue to advance our social, environmental and economic priorities well into the future.  
With the guidance of Baxter’s executive Sustainability Steering Committee and the commitment of employees worl dwide, we made 
meaningful progress on our nine sustainability priorities in 2011. The global macroeconomic landscape continued to pose serious 
challenges, yet it also helped inspire new ways to strengthen existing practices and drive greater innovation. We  implemented novel 
facility -based energy initiatives and continued to shift to less carbon -intensive modes of product transport. We completed five new 
green building projects, our most yet in a single year. We responded to natural disasters around the worl d with millions of dollars in 
product donations and cash. You can learn more about these efforts and many others throughout our comprehensive online 
sustainability report.  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/chairman -ceo-letter.html 
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Our annual assessment of progress also serves as a reminder of how much more we can accomplish. While the path forward for the 
healthcare industry remains challenging, there is immense potential to foster innovation through Baxter’s sustainability priorities as we 
advance the company’s mission on behalf of our patients. We see great oppor tunities to increase access to healthcare worldwide, 
further reduce our carbon footprint, use natural resources more efficiently, help improve math and science education in the 
communities we serve, and much more. Employees at all levels of the company are  taking action, motivated by a sense of 
responsibility and desire to make a difference.  
Through our balanced approach and broad -based employee involvement, we are confident that Baxter is well -positioned to make a 
positive impact for many years to come.  
Robert L. Parkinson, Jr.  
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
June 2012  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/baxters -approach.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Baxter ʼs Approach  
How nations, companies and individuals respond to global sustainability challenges such as climate change, natural resource scarcity, 
corruptio n, unequal access to healthcare and educational opportunities will significantly impact life in the 21st century and beyond. 
Stakeholders will judge Baxter's performance increasingly by how the company helps to address these global challenges. Baxter's 
actions demonstrate its leadership, values and commitment.  
At Baxter, sustainability means creating lasting social, environmental and economic value by addressing the needs of the company’s 
wide -ranging stakeholder  base. Baxter’s sustainability initiatives support the company’s mission to apply innovative science in the 
development of medical products and specialty therapies that save and sustain patients' lives.  
Susta inability is inherently broad. Baxter's efforts cover a wide range of areas, as reflected by the structure and contents of this report:  
• Sustainability at Baxter  – Using financial and other resources wisely to benefit company stakeholders and address key 
sustainability issues;  
• Governance, Ethics and Compliance – Operating in a sound and ethical manner and complying with the law wherever Baxter 
operates; promoting ethical sales and marketing practices globally;  
• Employees  – Providing a rewarding, inclusive and diverse workplace; 
• Environment, Health and Safety – Continually improving the company's environmental performance, generating related financial 
benefits, and maintaining a safe and healthy workplace;  
• Product Responsibility – Ensuring product qua lity and patient safety, and improving the sustainability performance of Baxter's 
products and packaging throughout the life cycle;  
• Supply Chain  – Working with suppliers to improve their social and environmental performance; 
•  Access to Healthcare – Expanding access to healthcare, including for people at the "base of the pyramid"1 and for those 
impacted by natural disasters;  
• Community Support  – Contributing to communities in need worldwide, with a focus on education and the environment; and 
supporting employee volunteerism and giving;  
• Public Policy  – Working with lawmakers, governments and policymakers worldwide to improve patient access to critical therapies 
and address other key issues.  
Complementing these activities, Baxter also recognizes the impo rtance of having clear priorities to focus its efforts and direct its 
initiatives. The company has nine sustainability priorities with corresponding goals for 2015, divided into three broad categories: Our 
People, Our Operations and Products, and Our World . See Priorities and Goals for detail.  
Managing Sustainability  
Baxter's executive -level Sustainability Steering Committee leads the company's efforts to accelerate and integrate sustainability into 
its current activities and long -term strategic planning process. The committee's role is to:  
• Assess global challenges and opportunities associated with sustainability;  
• Increase Baxter's knowledge of sustainability and benchmark othe r companies that demons trate leadership and innovation  
in this area;  
• Define, update and oversee Baxter's sustainability strategy;  
• Track progress on the company’s sustainability priorities and goals, drive organizational accountability  
and recognize accomplishments;  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/baxters -approach.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  • Establish performance objectives, evaluate and address resource needs and help implement  
sustainability initiatives;  
• Provide sustainability progress updates to senior management;  
• Identify and determine how to best address emerging issues;  
• Guide and inform Baxter's sustainability reporting;  
• Solicit stakeholder feedba ck and review stakeholder inquiries as appropriate; and  
• Recommend actions to continually enhance Baxter's sustainability program.  
The committee's executive sponsor is Baxter's vice president, Manufacturing. The company's vice president of Environment, H ealth 
and Safety serves as committee chair. The committee includes senior representatives from the company's BioScience, Medical 
Products, Corporate Communications, Ethics and Compliance, Finance, Human Resources, Manufacturing, Research and Development, a nd Supply Chain organizations.  
Committee members sponsor Baxter's sustainability priorities. Each sponsor is accountable for developing goals and achieving progress in his or her respective area, and leads a global, multi -functional team to implement relat ed initiatives. The committee meets 
quarterly to review progress and to discuss how to address performance gaps. These meetings often feature outside sustainability experts to contribute independent input and perspectives. Additional groups interact and pr ovide input to the committee as needed. 
 
    
 
     
 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/baxters -approach.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  How Sustainability Strengthens Baxterʼ s Business  
Baxter’s sustainability initiatives create business value, from attracting and retaining key talent, engaging employees, and reducing 
operating expense, t o ensuring market access, developing new markets, meeting stakeholder expectations, and enhancing Baxter's 
reputation.  
• Establishing The Baxter International Foundation in 1986;  
• Taking steps to reduce use of packaging materials, decrease water consumpti on and waste generation, and conserve energy since 1988;  
• Publishing the company’s first formal ethics manual in 1989;  
• Introducing Baxter’s first work/life benefit program in 1991;  
• Establishing the Corporate Responsibility Office to oversee the compan y’s ethics and compliance practices in 1993;  
• Developing Baxter’s Global Business Practice Standards for Suppliers in 2001;  
• Establishing Baxter’s Product Sustainability Review process in 2002; and  
• Establishing the company’s Sustainability Steering Com mittee in 2007.  
1The term "base of the pyramid" refers to the approximately 4 billion people who each live on less than $1,500 annually and have limited access to the 
healthcare market.  
 
   
 
     
 
  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/stakeholder -engagement.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Stakeholder Engagement  
Stakeholders play an important r ole in Baxter's continued success, and the company takes their varied perspectives into account.  
Baxter engages with stakeholders worldwide to share information, discuss their views on the company’s priorities, programs and 
performance, and determine oppo rtunities to collaborate and to pursue common goals with respect to five primary groups: patients 
and healthcare professionals, who rely on today’s products and tomorrow’s innovations; Baxter employees, who seek a safe, inclusive 
workplace and professional  growth opportunities; communities worldwide, where Baxter contributes to economic growth and 
addresses key public health needs; governments, insurers and other institutions and business partners that count on ongoing 
collaboration with the company; and sh areholders, who expect and deserve a steady return on their investment. Baxter believes by 
operating responsibly and staying attentive to the needs of these distinct yet interconnected groups, it can maintain the commercial 
success that will allow the comp any to deliver on its sustainability priorities.  
 
    
 
   
Baxter engages with stakeholders on key aspects of its business and products. For example, the company:  
• Assembles advisory boards of patients, clinicians, health practitioners and researchers to g ather feedb ack on the company's 
operations and products;  
• Operates patient advisory councils, such as home dialysis patients who provide input aimed at helping Baxter improve products 
and services for people with end -stage renal disease; 
• Works with a ph armacy customer advisory board in the United States to identify market trends and their implications for Baxter 
and its customers;  
• Assembles clinical advisory boards of preeminent physicians from around the world to guide the company 's clinical product 
development programs; and 
• Convenes academic leaders and researchers to serve as advisors or consultants on specific sustainability and sc ientific issues, 
such as public policy and animal  welfare . 
Baxter also has relationships with numerous organizations that focus on various aspects of sustainability. See  Affiliations and 
Memberships  and Environment,  Health  and Safety  for further details.  
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/stakeholder -engagement.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  For example, Baxter is a member of Ceres , an organization that advocates for sustainability leadership, bringing together a network of 
companies, investors, and public advocacy groups to expand the adoption of sustainable business practices and solutions to build a 
healthy  economy. Baxter has been a member of the Ceres network of companies since 1997, and has committed to work with Ceres 
on its sustainability performance and disclosure. The Ceres stakeholder team designated to work with Baxter is an independent group 
of ind ividuals drawn primarily from the Ceres coalition and represents a range of constituencies that have expertise in environmental, 
social and governance issues. See  Feedback  on 2010 Report  for detail.  
Feedback on Sustainability Report  
Baxter views its sustainability report as a means to engage with stakeholders and seek feedback on the company’s sustainability 
initiatives. During the content development process, Ceres and its coalition members provided Baxter input on a detailed outline of its 
2011 progress  updates  for each of the company’s nine sustainability prioritie s. Baxter invited and welcomed the opportunity to hear 
and consider input on report content at a point in the process where the company could implement it. In addition, Baxter engaged 
several outside experts to provide input on the company’s 2010 Sustainab ility Report. See  examples  of feedback provided, and how 
Baxter implemented this in the 2011 report.  
Baxter Sustainability Report Survey  
Baxter welcomes feedback on its sustainability report from all stakeholders. Readers can provide their input through the company’s 
sustainability report  survey. In 2011, Baxter consi dered input from about 50 survey respondents in creating this report.  
Baxter Stakeholder Groups  
This table outlines Baxter’s main stakeholder groups and describes how the company engages with each. Examples are referenced in 
the table and throughout this r eport.  
Baxter Stakeholder Groups  
Group:  Patients  
Description  Channels of Engagement  Example  
Patients worldwide with cancer, 
hemophilia, immune disorders, infectious 
diseases, kidney disease, trauma and 
other conditions, as well as patient -
advocacy group s. • Product  donations  and grants  
• Strategic  philanthropic  giving  
• Fundraising to donate to organizations 
and causes worldwide  
• Patient websites (i.e., There  For You) 
• Raising aw areness about patient choice 
and access to therapy through patient 
surveys and studies  
• Promoting greater understanding of the 
diseases that Baxter’s products treat 
through educational initiatives  • Baxter supports certain programs through 
patient -advocacy gr oups, such 
as CEAPIR (European Kidney Patients’ 
Federation), the European  Hemophilia  
Consortium  (EHC) and the  World  
Federation  of Hemophilia  (WFH)  Global  
Alliance  for Progress  (GAP)  program , which 
works to improve the diagnosis and 
treatment of hemophilia in developing 
countries.  
• Baxter awards  theFoster  McGaw  Prize each 
year to a U.S. hospital that demonstrates 
commitment to innovative programs that 
significantly improve the health and 	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/stakeholder -engagement.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  wellbeing of patients i n its community.  
• In November 2011, Baxter hosted the first 
ever European Jeffrey Modell Centre 
Network Meeting, a forum for exchange and 
sharing of best practices about PID and 
newborn screening (NBS).  
Group:  Customers  
Description  Channels of Engagement  Example  
Includes healthcare professionals, 
hospitals/clinics, kidney dialysis centers, 
medical research centers, nursing homes 
and rehabilitation centers.  • Ongoing customer product training and 
continuing education programs  
• Participation in professional 
organizations  
• Customer service and clinical helplines  
• Customer publications and 
presentations  
• Customer satisfaction surveys  
• Baxter attendance at conferences  
• UK Green  Nephrology  Group 
• Healthcare  Plastics  Recycling  Council  • Includes healthcare professionals, 
hospitals/clinics, kidney dialysis 
centers, medical research centers, 
nursing homes and rehabilitation 
centers.  
Group:  Employees  
Descriptio n Channels of Engagement  Example  
Baxter’s approximately 48,500 
employees worldwide  • Town hall meetings, webcasts, and 
“Lunch and Learn” events on topics 
including health/well -being, public 
policy and others  
• Employee  surveys  
• Focus groups (Women Leaders@Baxter, 
Latinos@ Baxter)  
• Baxter Intranet, employee newsletter 
and other communications  
• Works councils, facility health and 
safety committees, and employee 
groups that im plement community 
outreach activities at Baxter  
• Code  of Conduct  
• Ethics  and Compliance  Helpline  
• Regional  Ethics  and Compliance  
Commit tees 
• Certificate  of Integrity  and Compliance  
• Baxter  Political  Action  Committee  • Baxter’s  annual  World  Environment  
Week  engages and educates 
employees worldwide on Baxter’s 
environmental st ewardship.  
• Baxter’s Exercise Challenge Month 
held each May encourages employees 
to live healthier lifestyles and to sustain 
that activity throughout the year.  
• Baxter encourages employees to 
participate in a greener commute and 
offers partial reimbursement for public 
transportation and van sharing costs.  
• Baxter employees submit stories of 
successful volunteer and community 
outreach efforts for posting on the 
company’s intranet.  
• Global Inclusion initiative helps Baxter 
attract, engage and retain employees 
of diverse backgrounds.  
• Baxter encourages employee growth 
through its performance  management  
process . 
Group:  Communities   
Description  Channels of Engagement  Example  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/stakeholder -engagement.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Baxter co nducts business in more than 
100 countries and operates 
manufacturing facilities in 27.  • Involvement in community organizations 
and schools  
• Employee  volunteer  efforts 
• Collaboration  with international  health  
and aid organizations  
• Employee  partic ipation  on boards  and 
leadership  in local  and national  
organizations  • Baxter  responded  swiftly  to floods  in 
Thailand  that affected employees and 
patients, en suring delivery of 
peritoneal dialysis therapy and 
coordinating an emergency shipment 
of intravenous solutions.  
• Baxter employees volunteer as part 
ofBaxter’s  Science@Work  program , 
delivering professional development to 
Chicago Public Schools teachers and 
biotechnology education to students.  
• The Baxter International Foundation 
has helped fund a two -year project 
withAmeriCares  India  to provide 
critical on -site medical services and 
free medicine in Mumbai’s Andheri 
slums.  
• Baxter’s facilities in Asia Pacific 
organize activities each year for  Make  
a Meaningful  Difference  Month to 
encourage employee volunteerism in 
local communities.  
Group:  Industry Organizations  
Description  Channels of Engagement  Example  
Includes AdvaMed, BIOTECanada, 
Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO), 
Eucomed, EuropaBio, European Federation of 
Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations 
(EFPIA), European Organization for Packaging 
and the Environment (EUROPEN), European 
Vaccines Manufacturers, European Hemophilia 
Therapy Standardization Board (EHTSB), 
Institute for Supply Management, MEDEC, 
Plasma Protein Therapeutics Association and 
numerous physician organizations.  • Board and committee meetings  
• Educational campaigns  
• Indust ry events  
• Collaborative  lobbying  on issues  of 
mutual  concern  • Baxter sponsored the first -ever PN 
Safety Summit in September 2011, 
which addressed safety concerns and 
issues with nutr ition product 
shortages.  
• Baxter is on the Corporate Council of 
the Center for Health and the Global 
Environment. The center's Biodiversity 
and Human Health Program informs 
policymakers and educates the public 
about the importance of preserving 
biodiversity  through the lens of human 
health.  
Group:  Non-Governmental and Other Organizations  
Description  Channels of Engagement  Example  
Examples include AmeriCares, Boston 
College Center for Corporate Citizenship, 
Campaign for Greener Healthcare UK, 
Center for He alth and the Global 
Environment, Ceres, Compliance and 
Ethical Leadership Council, The 
Conference Board, Corporate Executive 
Board, Corporate Voices for Working 
Families, Council on Foundations, Direct 
Relief International, Ethics & Compliance 
Officer Asso ciation, Global Reporting 
Initiative, Grantmakers in Health, 
Partnership for Quality Medical 
Donations, Center for Climate and 
Energy Solutions, Society of Corporate 
Compliance and Ethics, and World • Feedback  on Baxter’s  2010  
Sustainability  Report , and pre -
publication review of sections of 
Baxter’s 2011 Sustainability Report  
• Participation on various committees  
• Attendance an d presentations at 
sustainability -related conferences and 
events  • Baxter facilitates an annual call with 
Ceres stakeholders to review 
sustainability report content.  
• Baxter contributes to various white 
papers and reports issued by non -
governmental organizati ons. 
• Baxter participates in educational and 
networking NGO webinars to share 
best practices and expertise.  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/stakeholder -engagement.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Health Organization.  
Group:  Suppliers  
Description  Channels of Engagement  Example  
Baxter works with a broad network of 
suppliers who provide product inputs as 
well as g oods and services not used in 
products.  • Supplier  Quality  Standard  and Ethics  
and Compliance  Standards  for Baxter  
Suppliers  
• Sustainability language included in 
Baxter requests for proposal (RFP) and 
standard supplier agreement  
• Supplier audits and site visits  
• Ethics  and Compliance  Helpline for 
employees and their families, suppliers, 
customers, and other stakeholders  
• Global  Supplier  Sustainability  Program  
• Supplier  diversity  program  
• Benchmarking sustainability programs 
with top suppliers  
• Chicago  United  
• National  Minority  Supplier  Development  
Council  (NMSDC)  • Baxter collaborates with its suppliers 
to identify opportunities to improve 
both Baxter’s and suppliers’ 
environmental performance and 
minimize transportation -related 
emissions through its  e-Impact  
program . 
Group:  Universities/Academia  
Description  Channels of Engagement  Example  
The Center for Co rporate Citizenship at 
Boston College, Cornell University 
Johnson School of Management, 
Cranfield University (UK), Illinois Institute 
of Technology, Northwestern University, 
and University of Wisconsin.  • Forums on sustainability and climate 
change  
• Informati on sharing about sustainability 
with administration, faculty and students  
• Select projects and student research  
• R&D collaboration  with universities  
• Foster early stage projects  • Baxter is  partnering  with Chicago  City 
Colleges  to support their College to 
Careers program with real -world 
experiences with Ba xter experts.  
• Baxter supports the Illinois  Institute  of 
Technology  Math  and Science  
Education  Department  with 
biotechnology teacher training and 
materials.  
• Baxter partners with Northwestern 
University’s Office of STEM Education 
and Programming to host symposia on 
biotechnology for Chicago Public 
Schools teachers district -wide.  
• Baxter contributes financially to 
theChicag o Botanic  Garden  Plant  
Science  Center , which provides 
laboratories and teaching facilities for 
more than 200 Ph.D. scientists, land 
managers, students and interns, and is 
home to a unique doctoral program in 
plant biology and conservation in 
conjunction w ith Northwestern 
University.  
• Provides grants to fund early stage 
technology.  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/stakeholder -engagement.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Group:  Government, Regulatory, Health Authorities  
Description  Channels of Engagement  Example  
Examples include City of Chicago, 
Committee for Medical Products for 
Human Use (CHM P; Europe), European 
Medicines Valuation Agency, European 
Commission, European Parliament, State 
of Illinois, U.S. Center for 
Medicare/Medicaid, U.S. Department of 
Agriculture, U.S. Department of Defense, 
U.S. Department of Health and Human 
Services, U.S. Department of Labor, U.S. 
Drug Enforcement Agency, U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency and 
U.S. Food and Drug Administration, 
ministries of health, and environment, 
health and safety agencies worldwide.  • Representation on advisory committees  
• Meetings, conf erences, partnerships 
and collaborations  
• Communication of studies that 
demonstrate health and economic 
benefits of Baxter’s products  
• Communication of sustainability 
programs and initiatives  
• Lobbying activities  
• Visits to Baxter facilities by EU and 
governme nt officials  • Baxter  supports  legislation/regulation  
that aligns  with the company’s  
business  and sustainability  objectives . 
• Baxter held to educate health policy 
makers about the bene fits of 
improving access to dialysis care.  
• Baxter UK’s  Evolving  Health  program 
works in partnership with the NHS 
(National Health Service) to bring 
quality care and efficiency to patients.  
Grou p: Investors  
Description  Channels of Engagement  Example  
Nearly 88% of Baxter’s shares are held 
by institutional investors.  • Analyst/investor  presentations  and 
meetings  
• Socially responsible investment surveys  
• Quarterly  earnings  announcements  and 
news  releases  
• Webcasts/conference calls  
• Annual Meeting of Shareholders  
• Road sho ws, one -on-one meetings and 
investor visits to headquarters  • Through this  report , Baxter 
demonstrates the business value of 
sustainability -related initiatives.  
 
   
 
  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/affiliations -member ships.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Affiliations and Membership s 
Baxter and its employees engage with many professional, industry and business organizations, covering a variety of geographic areas, 
diseases, markets and sustainability issues. By participating in these groups, Baxter can expand its influence, help rais e industry 
standards, share and learn best practices, and advance discussions within and beyond the healthcare industry. Forming relationships 
with these associations helps Baxter engage with and meet the ongoing needs of its stakeholders.  
While impractica l to include all organizations that Baxter belongs to or supports, the list below provides a representative sample.  
Advocacy Coalitions  
• Boston College Center for Corporate Citizenship  
• Boston College Center for Work & Family  
• Catalyst  
• Center for Comp anies That Care  
• Corporate Voices for Working Families  
• National Safety Council  
• Partnership for Quality Medical Donations  
Environmental and Sustainability Organizations  
• Business for Social Responsibility  
• Canadian Business for Social Responsibility  
• Center for Health and the Global Environment  
• Ceres  
• Global Reporting Initiative  
• National Environment Education Foundation 
• SustainAbility Engaging Stakeholders Program  
Industry Organizations  
• AdvaMed  
• BIOTECanada  
• Biotechnology Industry Organization  
• EucoMed 
• EuropeBio 
• European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA)  
• European Organization for Packaging and the Environment (EUROPEN)  
• European Vaccine Manufacturers 
• Hemophilia Fedreation of America  
• Pharmanet/i3  
• Irish Business & Employees Confederation (IBEC) – Health & Safety Policy Committee  
• Institute for Supply Management 
• MEDEC  
• Plasma Protein Therapeutics Association  
• Rx-360 (International Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Consortium)  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/affiliations -member ships.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  • US-ASEAN Business Counc il 
Patient Organizations  
• Alpha -1 Foundation 
• American Association of Kidney Patients  
• Dialysis Patient Citizens 
• European Hemophilia Consortium  
• European Kidney Patients’ Federation (CEAPIR)  
• European Patients’ Forum  
• Eurordis 
• Immune Deficiency F oundation 
• International Patient Organisation for Primary Immunodeficiencies (IPOPI)  
• Hemophilia Federation of America  
• International Society of Peritoneal Dialysis North American Chapter  
• Jeffrey Modell Foundation  
• Latin American Society for Immunode ficiencies  
• National Hemophilia Foundation  
• National Kidney Foundation 
• The Oley Foundation  
• World Federation of Hemophilia 
Professional Organizations  
• American Association of Critical -Care Nurses  
• American Industrial Hygiene Association (AIHA)  
• American Nephrology Nurses Association  
• American Society of Anesthesiologists  
• American Society of Health -System Pharmacists  
• American Society of Nephrology  
• American Society of Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition  
• The Auditing Roundtable 
• Board Source 
• Clinical Immunology Society  
• Corporate Executive Board Compliance and Ethics Leadership Council  
• European Association for Haemophilia and Allied Disorders (EAHAD)  
• European Society for Immunodeficiencies (ESID)  
• International Nursing Group for Immunodef iciencies (INGID)  
• International Patient Organisation for Primary Immunodeficiencies  
• International  Society  of Nephrology  
• nstitute of Occupational  Safety and Health  (IOSH) 
• Institute  for Safe Medication  Practices 
• Institute  for Supply  Management  
• NAEM  (formerly  National  Association for Environmental  Management)  
• National  Minority  Supplier  Development  Council,  Inc. 	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/affiliations -member ships.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  • Renal  Physicians  Association 
• Society  of Corporate  Compliance  and Ethics  (SCCE) 
• Society  of Critical  Care  Medicine  
• Women’s  Business  Development  Center  (WBDC) 
Regional and Local Organizations  
• American Chamber  of Commerce  for Brazil  (AMCHAM  Brasil)  
• American Chamber  of Commerce  for Panama  (Panama)  
• Asociación  Colombiana  de Hospitales  y Clínicas  (ACHC)  (Colombia)  
• Asociación  Venezolana  de Equipos  Médicos  (AVEDEM) (Venezuela)  
• Associação  Brasileira  dos Importadores  de Equipamentos,  Produtos  e Suprimentos  Médicos -Hospitalares  (Abimed)  (Brazil) 
• Associação  Brasileira  de Produtores  de Soluções  Parenterais  (ABRASP) (Brazil) 
• Australian and New Zealand Society  of Nephrology  (Australia  & New Zealand)  
• BioCrossroads  (Indiana, U.S.)  
• Cámara  Argentina  de Especialidades  Medicinales  (CAEMe) (Argentina) 
• Cáma ra Industria  Farmacéutica  en Chile  (ASILFA)  (Chile)  
• Cámara  Nacional  de la Industria  Farmacéutica  (CANIFARMA)  (Mexico) 
• Campaign for Greener  Healthcare  - Green  Nephrology  Group  (U.K.) 
• Canadian College  of Health  Service Executives  (Canada)  
• Canadian Patient  Safety  Institute  (Canada)  
• Chicago  United  (U.S.)  
• The Commercial  Club  of Chicago  (U.S.) 
• Donors  Forum  (Illinois,  U.S.)  
• Illinois  Biotechnology Industry  Organization  (U.S.)  
• Industria  Farmacéutica  de Investigación  e Innovación  (IFI) (Ecuador)  
• Green  Building  Council  Italia  (Italy) 
• Japan  Pharmaceutical  Manufacturers  Association (Japan)  
• Korea  Pharmaceutical  Manufacturers  Association (South  Korea)  
• Natio nal Center  for Asia-Pacific Economic  Cooperation  (global)  
• Puerto  Rico Manufacturers  Association (Puerto  Rico)  
• Sociedad  Argentina  de Farmacia  y Bioq uímica (SAFIBY)  (Argentina) 
• Sindicato da Indústria  de Produtos  Farmacéuticos  no Estado  de São Paulo (Sindusfarma)  (Brazil) 
 
	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
 	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/index.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Sustainability Reporting  
Baxter is committed to shari ng information about its sustainability programs, priorities, goals 
and performance. This report, the company’s main vehicle for disclosing information about its 
social and environmental initiatives and progress, illustrates Baxter’s commitment to good 
governance, balance and transparency. It also serves as an entry point for stakeholder 
engagement and is an important means for soliciting feedback on the company’s activities in 
these areas.  
As a part of the annual reporting process, Baxter measures and eval uates its performance, and 
communicates its progress and challenges. The company's annual exercise of collecting, 
analyzing and reviewing report content engages and educates employees, senior management 
and the Board of Directors on sustainability issues w hile driving performance improvements. 
This report also illustrates the interconnection between content areas, such as how product 
innovation can support access to healthcare in emerging markets and the relationship between 
water consumption, energy use an d greenhouse gas emissions.  
Baxter released its first public environmental report in 1992 and published its first sustainability 
report in 1999. The company has produced a sustainability report every year since, and is 
committed to annual reporting. The co mprehensive 2011 Sustainability Report is available 
online. Baxter also produces  a downloadable PDF of each section  and an overview  brochure , available in multiple  languages.  
Baxter discloses information about its sustainability programs and performance through several additional communication channels 
as well. These include socially responsible investor surveys, award applications,  press  releases , responses to customer requests for 
proposals, governmental reports such as the U.S. Employer Information Report (EEO -1) and the U.S. Toxics Release Inventory, 
participation in conferences, execut ive speeches, and targeted stakeholder communications.  
Feedback 
Stakeholder feedback is an important source of input to support continual improvement of Baxter's sustainability programs and 
reporting. Baxter encourages readers of its report to provide comm ents and suggestions through the company’s  Sustainability  
Survey . 
About This Report  
• This report is intended for global use. Please consult the appropriate country -specific Baxter website fo r more information 
regarding activities in that country. Some statements in the report about products or procedures may differ from the licensed 
indications in specific countries. Therefore, always consult the country -specific summary of product characteri stics (SPC), 
package leaflets or instructions for use. For more information, please contact a local Baxter representative.  
• The performance data in this report are from calendar year 2011 unless stated otherwise. Some case studies and program 
descriptions include information from 2012.  
• This report covers Baxter's global operations, including subsidiaries, unless otherwise noted. Environmental, health and safety 
data include joint ventures where Baxter has a controlling interest.  
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/index.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  • All currency in this report is in U.S. dollars unless stated otherwise.  
• Significant restatements of data compared to prior years are noted in the section where they appear.  
• For more information about this report, please contact the Center for One Baxter at 1 -800-422-9837 or 1-224-948-1812,  
or by email at  onebaxter@baxter.com . 
 
    
 
     
 
   
 
 
 
 
 	  
http://sustainability.baxter.co m/sustainability/sustainability- reporting/external -reporting -standards.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  External Reporting Standards  
Global Reporting Initiative  
Baxter recognizes the importance of external sustainability reporting standards to promote relevant, transparent, balanced an d 
comparable disclosure of company performance. The company was one of the first to pilot the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
Guidelines in 1999 and has served as a GRI Organizational Stakeholder (OS) since the program's inception in 2004.  
The GRI Guidel ines provide a valuable perspective to Baxter in its reporting process. GRI reporting principles (see below) offer a 
framework to test whether the company addresses key aspects of disclosure. Reviewing report content against the range of GRI 
performance in dicators helps Baxter to identify possible reporting gaps and areas that may warrant f urther disclosure. This process 
is also useful to compare the company against reporting leaders and others in the industry.  
This report aligns with the  GRI G3 Sustainability  Reporting  Guidelines , application level B (self -declared). See Baxter’s  GRI Index  
for detail.  
The follo wing table describes how Baxter addresses GRI G3 reporting principles.  
GRI G3 REPORTING PRINCIPLE RELEVANCE TO BAXTER 
Principles for Defining Report Content 
Materiality - The information in a report should cover topics 
and Indicators* that reflect the organization's significant 
economic, environmental, and social impacts, or that would 
substantively influence the assessment s and decisions of 
stakeholders.  Baxter continually refines its approach to identifying and 
reporting on its material sustainability issues. This report 
includes  a summary  of Baxter's sustainability  priorities  and 
goals , with links to detailed information about progress in each 
area.  
Stakeholder Inclusiveness - The reporting organization should 
identify its stakeholders and explain in the report how it has 
responded to their reas onable expectations and interests.  Baxter describes its key stakeholder groups, and provides 
examples of how it interacts with each, on the  Stakeholder  
Engagement  page. Examples are also included throughout the 
report.  
Sustainability Context -The report should present the 
organization's performance in the wider context of 
sustainability.  The Chairman  and CEO  letter  presents Baxter's performance in 
this manner. Many sections begin with a brief introduction 
framing the issue and its relevance to sustainability and the 
company.  
Completeness - Coverage of the material topics and i ndicators 
and definition of the report boundary should be sufficient to 
reflect significant economic, environmental, and social impacts 
and enable stakeholders to assess the reporting organization's 
performance in the reporting period.  Baxter continues to improve its reporting to more fully address 
the range of sustainability issues. In addition to extensive 
coverage of  Baxter's  sustainability  priorities  and goals , this 
report inc ludes sections in a broad range of areas such 
as Environment,  Health  and Safety ; Product  
Responsibility ; Supply  Chain ; and  Public  Policy . 
Principles for Ensuring Report Quality 
Balance - The report should reflect positive and negative 
aspects of the organization's performance to enable a reasoned 
assessment of overall performance.  Baxter reports on a consistent set of core performance 
indicators (see  Summary  Data  Table ) and the 
company's  sustainability  priorities  and goals  to illustrate positive 
as well as negative performance tr ends.  
Comparability - Issues and information should be selected, When possible, this report provides five (and in some cases six) 	  
http://sustainability.baxter.co m/sustainability/sustainability- reporting/external -reporting -standards.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  compiled, and reported consistently. Reported information 
should be presented in a manner that enables stakeholders to 
analyze changes in the organization's performance over time, 
and could support analysis relative to other organizations.  years of performance data, including relevant breakdowns and 
progress against targets on an absolute and normalized basis. 
Data are generally  included under performance graphs for 
clarity, and key information is presented in a  Summary  Data  
Table  for ease of use. Industry performance data are included 
for comparison whe n available, such as occupational  illness  and 
injury  rates  and share performance . Data beyond the timeframe 
of the report are available in past reports on the  Downloads  
page . 
Accuracy - The reported information should be sufficiently 
accurate a nd detailed for stakeholders to assess the reporting 
organization's performance.  Baxter uses a combination of internal processes and external 
verification for selected sections (see Assurance ) to ensure the 
reliability of information presented in this report. Significant 
restatements of data are noted.  
Timeliness - Reporting occurs on a regular schedule and 
information is available in time for stakeholde rs to make 
informed decisions.  Baxter produces its Sustainability Report annually, as soon as is 
feasible after content and data are compiled, analyzed, 
reviewed and (in the case of Environment,  Health  and 
Safety , Supply  Chain  andProduct  Transport  content and data) 
verified.  
Clarity - Information should be made available in a manner that 
is understandable and accessible to stakeholders using the 
report.  Baxter strives to present the information in this report clearly 
and concisely. The company continues to  enhance the report 
website to further increase accessibility, including the addition 
this year of an interactive  dashboard  illustrating Baxter's 
priorities and related performanc e goals.  
Reliability - Information and processes used in the preparation 
of a report should be gathered, recorded, compiled, analyzed, 
and disclosed in a way that could be subject to examination and 
that establishes the quality and materiality of the info rmation.  Bureau  Veritas  verified the  Environment,  Health  and 
Safety , Supply  Chain , and  Product  Transport  sections of this 
report. In addition, many of the financial data includ ed in this 
report are taken from the consolidated financial statements 
contained in the  Baxter  International  Inc. 2011  Annual  Report . 
These financial sta tements were audited by Baxter's 
independent registered public accounting firm, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  
1 According to GRI: indicators elicit comparable information on the economic, environmental and social performance of the organization.  
Sustainabil ity Priority Updates and Case Studies  
In addition to sections describing the company's policies, programs and performance across the range of sustainability, the Baxter 
2011 Sustainability Report also includes the following: 
• A dashboard  highlights progre ss against each of the company's nine sustainability priorities and related goals.  
• Case  studies  provide examples of strong performance in areas such as  Ethics  and Compliance ; Employees ; Environment,  Health  
and Safety ; Product  Responsibility ; Supply  Chain and Community  Support . 
 
 
  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/feedback -2010- report.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Feedback on 2010 Report  
Ongoing improvement is a fundamental aspect of Baxter's sustainability reporting process. To ensure the company cont inues to 
deliver stakeholders the most relevant information, Baxter solicited feedback on its 2010 Sustainability Report from numerous experts:  
• SustainAbility , a strategy consultant/think tank;  
• Ceres1,a national coalition of investors and public interest groups addressin g sustainability, and its select coalition members with 
expertise in areas of focus for Baxter; and  
• Bureau Veritas, Baxter's verification body, for the EHS, Supply Chain, and Product Transport sections.  
Baxter also received feedback from more than 50 rea ders through its  Sustainability  Survey . The company considered input from all of 
these sources in the preparation of this report.  
Ceres and its coalition members also provided Baxter input du ring the content development process of this report for 2011 (similar to 
last year). Their review and comments focused on detailed outlines of progress made for each of the company's nine sustainability 
priorities. Baxter welcomed the opportunity to hear a nd consider input on report content while still in a position to act on it. 
These organizations and stakeholders cited several areas of strength from the 2010 report, including the following (paraphrased):  
• The report is comprehensive and clear, and cover s a wide range of activities and goals.  
• The business case for sustainability is strong where provided (and the Environmental Finance Statement is a leadership example).  
• Baxter demonstrates a commitment to transparency and accountability by including fe edback on its past report and changes 
made as a result.  
• The company effectively describes how it uses reporting as a tool for internal and external engagement.  
• The emphasis on Baxter’s nine sustainability priorities and goals helps readers understan d how the company perceives its  
core responsibility.  
• The report effectively cross -links vast amount of information to improve accessibility.  
• Abundant performance data show commitment to continuous improvement (especially  in the Environment, Health and  
Safety section).  
• Stakeholders applaud Baxter’s progress on issues such as water, as well as its inclus ion of areas such as the safety 
“near misses”.  
• Stakeholders appreciate Baxter’s continued commitment to report greenhouse gas emissions for its entire va lue chain. 
• Stakeholders are pleased to see the disclosure on options for employees to seek guidance and report concerns, including through 
Baxter’s Ethics and Compliance Helpline, as well as the number of inquiries.  
• The report effectively addresses GRI Core Indicators.  
Feedback on the 2010 report as well as on an outline for the 2011 report also included numerous opportunities for improvement. The 
following table summarizes several of those comments and describes changes made to this report.  
 
 	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/assurance.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Assuranc e 
Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. assured the  Environment,  Health  and Safety  (EHS), and  Suppl y Chain  and Product  
Transport  sections of this report (see  assurance opinion). M any of the financial data included in the Economic Impacts section are 
taken from the consolidated financial statements contained in the  Baxter  International  Inc. 2011  Annual  Report . These financial 
statements are audited by Baxter's independent registered public accounting firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  
Bureau Vertias Verification Report  
 
   
 
     
 
   
 
 
 
 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/assurance.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/assurance.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/gri -index .html 
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Global Reporting Initiative I ndex  
This report aligns with the GRI G3 Guidelines . Baxter self -declares this report to application level B. Please also see how Baxter 
addresses G3 reporting principles . 
Disclosure  Description  2011 Reporting  
Strategy and Analysis  
1.1 Statement from the most senior decision -maker of the organization about 
the relevance of su stainability to the organization and its strategy.  Chairman and CEO Letter  
1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities.  Chairman and CEO Letter  
Priorities and Goals  
Organizational Profile  
2.1 Name of the organization.  Company Profile  
2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services.  Company Profile  
2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, 
operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures.  Company Profile  
2.4 Location of organization's headquarters.  Baxter' s headquarters are located in 
Deerfield, Illinois, United States, 
approximately 20 miles north of 
Chicago.  
2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of 
countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to 
the sustainability issues covered in the report.  Company Profile  
EHS Management Systems  
2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form.  Baxter Healthcare Corporation 
(BAX) is a publicly traded company 
listed on the New York Stock 
Exchange.  
2.7 Markets served.  Comp any Profile  
2.8 Scale of the reporting organization.  Company Profile  
Employees  
Environment, Health and Safety  
Supply Chain  
2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, 
or ownership.  Company Profile  
2.10 Awards received in the reporting period.  Awards and Honors  
Report Parameters  
3.1 Reporting period for information provided.  Sustainability Reporting  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/gri -index .html 
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any).  Downloads  
3.3 Reporting cycle.  Sustainability Reporting  
3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents.  Sustainability Reporting  
3.5 Process for defining report content.  Baxter’s Approach  
Priorities and Goals  
External Reporting Standards  
Feedback on 2010 Report  
3.6 Boundary of the report.  Sustainabi lity Reporting  
Environment, Health and Safety  
3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report.  Sustainability Reporting  
Environment, Health and Safety  
3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, 
outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect 
comparability from period to period and/or between organizations.  Sustainability Reporting  
3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including 
assumptions and tech niques underlying estimations applied to the 
compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report.  Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage 
and Greenhouse Gas Emissions  
2011 Environmental Financial 
Statement  
GHG Emissions across the Value 
Chain  
GHG Emi ssions from Operations  
Managing Supplier Performance  
Community Support  
Summary Data Table  
3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re -statements of information provided in 
earlier reports, and the reasons for such re -statement.  Environment, Health and Safety  
EHS Goals  
3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, 
boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report.  Baxter Energy Usage and 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions  
2011 Environmental Financial 
Statement  
3.12 Table identifying the l ocation of the Standard Disclosures in the report.  Global Reporting Initiative Index  
3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for 
the report.  Assurance  
Governance, Commitments and Engagements  
4.1 Governance structure of  the organization, including committees under 
the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as 
setting strategy or organizational oversight.  Corporate Governance  
4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an 
executive officer.  Corporate Governance  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/gri -index .html 
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of 
members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or 
non-executive members.  Corporate Governance  
4.4 Mechanisms for shareh olders and employees to provide 
recommendations or direction to the highest governance body.  How to Contact Baxter’s Board of 
Directors  
4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance 
body, senior managers, and executives (including  departure 
arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and 
environmental performance).  Baxter’s Compensation Committee 
and Committee Charter  
4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts 
of interest are  avoided.  Ethics and Compliance – Code of 
Conduct  
4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members 
of the highest governance body for guiding the organization's strategy on 
economic, environmental, and social topics.  Corporate G overnance Guidelines  
4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, 
and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social 
performance and the status of their implementation.  Corporate Governance  
Ethics and Compliance – Code of 
Conduct  
Talent Management  
Global Inclusion and Diversity  
EHS – Policy and Vision  
GHG Emissions from Operations  
Bioethics  
Clinical Trials  
Managing Supplier Performance  
Product Donations  
4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing  the 
organization's identification and management of economic, 
environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and 
opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed 
standards, codes of conduct, and principles.  Corporate  Governance  
4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own 
performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and 
social performance.  Corporate Governance Guidelines  
4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary a pproach or principle 
is addressed by the organization.  Baxter's products are regulated by 
health authorities around the world 
and the company is required to 
provide extensive scientific data 
related to the safety and efficacy of 
those products in order to obtain 
licensure by regulatory authorities. 
See also Materials Use . 	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/gri -index .html 
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, 
principles, or other in itiatives to which the organization subscribes or 
endorses.  Affiliations and Memberships  
EHS Management Systems  
GHG Emissions from Operations  
Animal Welfare  
Clinical Trials  
Product Use  
Managing Supplier Performance   
Global Sustainable Supply Chain  
External Reporting Standards  
4.13 Memberships in associations and/or national/international advocacy 
organizations.  Affiliations and Memberships  
4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization.  Stakeholder Engagement  
4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeh olders with whom to 
engage.  Stakeholder Engagement  
4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of 
engagement by type and by stakeholder group.  Stakeholder Engagement  
4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholde r 
engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key 
topics and concerns, including through its reporting.  Feedback on 2010 Report  
Economic  
 Disclosure on Management Approach  Economic Impacts  
Direct Impacts  
Indirect Impacts  
EC1 Economic val ue generated and distributed, including revenues, operating 
costs, employee compensation, donations and other community 
investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and 
governments. (Core)  Direct Impacts  
EC2 Financial implications and  other risks and opportunities for the 
organization's activities due to climate change. (Core)  Baxter  considers its exposure, 
during the next decade, to potential 
regulatory, physical and other risks 
related to climate change to be low. 
The company believe s existing and 
anticipated government policies, 
legislation, regulations and energy 
standards aimed at improving 
energy efficiency and limiting and 
reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions will pose minimal 
regulatory risk to the corporation, in 
part due to  Baxter's proactive 
approach in this area. In the near -	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/gri -index .html 
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  term, Baxter anticipates minimal 
physical risk to its business 
associated with global warming, 
resultant climate change, sea -level 
rise, change in weather patterns and 
precipitation. For more informati on, 
see Baxter's Carbon Disclosure 
Project submission. For more 
information, see Baxter's Carbon 
Disclosure Project submission.  
EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. (Co re) 2011 Annual Report (page 75)  
EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. (Core)  Not available on companywide 
basis.  
EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum 
wage at significant locations of operati on. (Additional)   
EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally -based suppliers 
at significant locations of operation. (Core)  Supplier Diversity  
EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired 
from the local commu nity at significant locations of operation. (Core)  Baxter does not track this 
information globally.  
EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services 
provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in -kind, or pro 
bono engage ment. (Core)  Community Support  
EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, 
including the extent of impacts. (Additional)  Indirect Impacts  
Environmental  
 Disclosure on Management Approach  EHS Program  
EN1 Materials used by wei ght or volume. (Core)  Eco-Efficiency/ Raw Materials Use  
EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. (Core)  Eco-Efficiency/ Raw Materials Use  
EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. (Core)  Energy  
Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage  
and Greenhouse Gas Emissions  
EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. (Core)  Energy  
Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage  
and Greenhouse Gas Emissions  
EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 
(Additional)  Energy  
EN6 Initiatives to provide energy -efficient or renewable energy based 
products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result GHG Emissions from Operations  
Product Sustainability Review  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/gri -index .html 
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  of these initiatives. (Additional)  
EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions 
achieved. (Additional)  Energy  
Employees and the Environment  
Benefit from New Vienna, Austria, 
Green Building  
EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. (Core)  Water and Wastewater  
EN9 Water sources signific antly affected by withdrawal of water. (Additional)  Water and Wastewater  
EN10  Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. (Additional)   
EN11  Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, 
protected areas and areas of h igh biodiversity value outside protected 
areas. (Core)  Biodiversity  
EN12  Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on 
biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value 
outside protected areas. (Core)  Biodi versity  
EN13  Habitats protected or restored. (Additional)  Biodiversity  
EN14  Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on 
biodiversity. (Additional)  Biodiversity  
EN15  Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list  species 
with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. 
(Additional)   
EN16  Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. (Core)  GHG Emissions across the Value 
Chain  
GHG Emissions from Operations  
Baxter Value Ch ain Energy Usage  
and Greenhouse Gas Emissions  
EN17  Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. (Core)  GHG Emissions across the Value 
Chain  
GHG Emissions from Operations  
Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage  
and Greenhouse Gas Emissions  
EN18  Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. 
(Additional)  Facilities in India Switch to Greener 
Boiler Fuel  
Employees and the Environment 
Benefit from New Vienna. Austria. 
Green Building  
EN19  Emissions of ozone -depleting substances  by weight. (Core)  Air Emissions  
EN20  NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. (Core)  Air Emissions  
EN21  Total water discharge by quality and destination. (Core)  Water and Wastewater  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/gri -index .html 
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  EN22  Total weight of waste by type and dispos al method. (Core)  Waste  
EN23  Total number and volume of significant spills. (Core)  Environmental Compliance  
EN24  Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed 
hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and 
VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. 
(Additional)   
EN25  Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies 
and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's 
discharges of water an d runoff. (Additional)   
EN26  Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, 
and extent of impact mitigation. (Core)  Product Sustainability Review  
Materials Use  
Manufacturing  
Product Transport  
Packaging  
Product End -of-Life 
Material s Restrictions  
Global Sustainable Supply Chain  
EN27  Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are 
reclaimed by category. (Core)  The European Union packaging 
directive requires Baxter to reclaim 
packaging and to submit related 
reports.  Baxter typically pays third 
parties fees of about $1 million per 
year to do this, as indicated on the 
company's Environmental Financial 
Statement . Baxter does not 
currently have systems to track 
quantities of packaging materials 
reclaimed. Baxter's products are 
primarily disposable medical 
products. Reclamation of these 
products is difficult since often they 
must be disposed of as 
biohaza rdous waste after their use. 
Baxter continues to explore means 
to reclaim and recycle products with 
its customers. See also Product 
End-of-Life. 
EN28  Monetar y value of significant fines and total number of non -monetary 
sanctions for non -compliance with environmental laws and regulations. 
(Core)  Environmental Compliance  
EN29  Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other 
goods and materia ls used for the organization's operations, and GHG Emissions across the Value 
Chain  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/gri -index .html 
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  transporting members of the workforce. (Additional)  GHG Emissions from Operations  
Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage  
and Greenhouse Gas Emissions  
Product Transport  
EN30  Total  environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 
(Additional)  2011 Environmental Financial 
Statement  
Labor Practices and Decent Work  
 Disclosure on Management Approach  Talent Management  
Sustainability Education  
Compensation and Benefits  
Measuring Company Culture  
Global Inclusion and Diversity  
Work/Life  
LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. 
(Core)  Employees  
LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and 
region. (Core)  Baxter does not track this 
information globally.  
LA3 Benefits provided to full -time employees that are not provided to 
temporary or part -time employees, by major operations. (Additional)  Compensation and Benefits  
Work/Life  
LA4 Percentage of employees covered by coll ective bargaining agreements. 
(Core)  Baxter does not track this 
information globally.  
LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, 
including whether it is specified in collective agreements. (Core)  The length of the notice perio d is 
dependent on the type of change 
being made. Baxter is committed to 
providing appropriate notice and 
follows all relevant consultation and 
notice requirements.  
LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management -
worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on 
occupational health and safety programs. (Additional)   
LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and 
number of work -related fatalities by region. (Core)  Health and Safety Perf ormance  
LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk -control programs in 
place to assist workforce members, their families, or community 
members regarding serious diseases. (Core)  Product Donations  
The Baxter International Foundation  
LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. 
(Additional)   
LA10  Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. 
(Core)  Talent Management  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/gri -index .html 
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  LA11  Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support  the 
continued employability of employees and assist them in managing 
career endings. (Additional)  Talent Management  
Sustainability Education  
LA12  Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 
development reviews. (Additional)  Talent Ma nagement  
LA13  Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per 
category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, 
and other indicators of diversity. (Core)  Global Inclusion and Diversity  
LA14  Ratio of basic salary of men t o women by employee category. (Core)  Baxter does not track this 
information globally.  
Human Rights  
 Disclosure on Management Approach  Managing Supplier Performance  
HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that 
include human r ights clauses or that have undergone human rights 
screening. (Core)  Baxter does not track this 
information globally in a consistent 
manner. See also Managing 
Supplier Performance.  
HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone  
screening on human rights and actions taken. (Core)  Managing Supplier Performance  
HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning 
aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the 
percentage of employees tr ained. (Additional)   
HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. (Core)  In addition to alleged cases of 
discrimination and harassment that 
may be handled locally, Baxter's 
Ethics and Compliance helpline and 
information management sy stem 
logged seven allegations of 
discrimination and harassment in 
2010. Baxter encourages 
employees to seek guidance and 
report concerns through a number 
of formal channels. Through these 
channels, Baxter identifies 
incidents, prevents incidents from 
occur ring and addresses issues 
when they do arise. Items identified 
through these channels help Ethics 
and Compliance managers identify 
key risks, develop appropriate 
training, and design and apply 
compliance assessment 	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/gri -index .html 
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  methodologies.  
HR5 Operations identified  in which the right to exercise freedom of 
association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and 
actions taken to support these rights. (Core)   
HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, 
and measures  taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. (Core)  See Baxter’s Code of Conduct, 
page 9.  
HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or 
compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of 
forced or compulsory labor. (Core)  See Baxter’s Code of Conduct, 
page 9.  
HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or 
procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to 
operations. (Additional)   
HR9 Total number  of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous 
people and actions taken. (Additional)    
Society  
 Disclosure on Management Approach  Governance, Ethics an d 
Compliance  
Community Support  
Access to Healthcare  
Critical Community Needs  
Employee Involvement  
SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and pr actices that 
assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including 
entering, operating, and exiting. (Core)  Environment, Health and Safety  
SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related 
to corruption. (Core)  Baxter conducts an annual 
enterprise -wide risk assessment 
covering, among other things, legal 
risks such as corruption. Baxter also 
annually conducts intensive 
assessments of its business units 
that are designed to evaluate 
whether Baxter has appropriate 
anticorruption policies, processes, 
controls and training. The company 
conducted 11 such assessments 
outside the United States in 2010.  
SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti -corruption 
policies and procedures. (Core)  Governance, Ethics and 
Compliance – Code of Conduct  
Governance, Ethics and 
Compliance - Structure and 
Programs  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/gri -index .html 
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. (Core)  Allegations are investigated by the 
Ethics and Compliance department.  
SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development 
and lobbying. (Core)  GHG Emissions from Operations  
Public Policy  
2011 Political Contributions Report  
2010 Political Contributions Report  
2009 Political Contributions Report  
2008 Political Contributions Report  
SO6 Total value of financial and in -kind contributions to political parties, 
politicians, and related institutions by country. (Additional)  2011 Political Contributions Report  
2010 Political Contributions Report  
2009 Political Contributions Report  
2008 Political Contributions Report  
SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti -competitive behavior, anti -trust, 
and monopoly practices and their outcomes. (Additional)   
SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non -monetary 
sanctions for non -compliance with laws and reg ulations. (Core)  Safety  
Environmental Compliance  
Health and Safety Compliance  
Product Use  
Product Responsibility  
 Discl osure on Management Approach  Product Responsibility  
Quality   
Safety   
Product Integrity  
R&D and Design  
Materials Use  
Manufacturing  
Product Transport  
Packaging   
Product Use  
Product End -of-Life 
Base of the Pyramid  
Product Donations  
PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and 
services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant 
products and services categories subject to such procedures. (Core)  Product Sustainability Review  
PR2 Total number of incidents of non -compliance with regulations and 
voluntary codes con cerning health and safety impacts of products and 
services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. (Additional)  Safety  
PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and 
percentage of significant products and services subject to  such 
information requirements. (Core)  Clinical Trials  
Product Use  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/gri -index .html 
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  PR4 Total number of incidents of non -compliance with regulations and 
voluntary codes concerning product and service information and 
labeling, by type of outcomes. (Additional)   
PR5 Practi ces related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys 
measuring customer satisfaction. (Additional)   
PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related 
to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and  
sponsorship. (Core)  Product Use  
PR7 Total number of incidents of non -compliance with regulations and 
voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including 
advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. 
(Additional)  Product Use  
PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of 
customer privacy and losses of customer data. (Additional)   
PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non -compliance with laws and 
regulations concerning the provision and use of products a nd services. 
(Core).  Safety  
Product Use  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/economic -impacts/index.html 
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Economic Impacts  
Baxter's direct and indirect economic impacts on its stakeholders are an important aspect of the 
company's sustainability performance. Direct impacts include financial transactions, such as 
revenu e received from customers, wages and benefits provided to employees, dividends paid to 
investors and tax payments made to governments. Some but not all of these appear in a 
company's financial statements. Indirect impacts, which are more difficult to quant ify, include 
increased productivity and money saved by customers due to their use of Baxter's products, and 
job creation outside of Baxter due to the company's spending.  
Baxter ʼs Financial Performance  
Baxter's broader economic contributions depend on its o ngoing financial performance. The 
company's global net sales totaled $13.9 billion in 2011, an increase of 8% over 2010. Sales within the United States totaled $5.7 billion, and international sales totaled $8.2 billion, both increasing 8% over 2010. In 201 1, net income attributable to Baxter totaled $2.2 billion compared to $1.4 
billion the prior year. On an adjusted basis, excluding special charges in 2010 and 2011, net income attributable to Baxter totaled approximately $2.5 billion in 2011, an increase o f 4% as compared to the prior year. Over the 
five years ending December 31, 2011, Baxter's total shareholder return (including reinvested dividends) was 17%.  
For a detailed description of the company's financial performance, see Baxter's 2011 Annual Report . For other investor information 
such as upcoming events, presentations and reports, see the Investors  portion of the company's website. 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/economic -impacts/direct -impacts.html 
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Direct Impacts  
Baxter's direct impacts include payments Baxter makes to and receives from various stakeholder groups during the course of 
business. For example:  
• Customers buy Baxter's products;  
• Baxter pays s uppliers for raw materials and other goods and services;  
• Employees receive wages and benefits;  
• Investors provide Baxter capital in exchange for dividends and possible gains in share value (see graph); and  
• Communities may receive tax payments, as well as ca sh and product donations (in some locations).  
The following table summarizes these transactions.  
 
Economic Value Generated and Distributed (Dollars in Millions)  
 2007  2008 2009 2010 2011 
Economic Value Generated  
Net Sales  $11,263  $12,348  $12,562  $12,843  $13,893  
Net Income Attributable to 
Baxter  1,707  2,014  2,205  1,420  2,224  
Economic Value Distributed  
Suppliers  
Payments to Suppliers 
(approximate)  $4,100  $4,400  $4,400  $5,500  $5,700  
Investors  
Share Repurchases  1,855  1,986  1,216  1,453  1,583  
Cash Divid ends on 
Common Stock  704 546 632 688 709 
Governments  
Income Tax Expense (U.S.)  228 205 273 284 256 
Income Tax Expense 
(international)  179 232 246 179 297 
Communities  
Cash Donations*  23.5 32.9 34.0 31.4 33.4 
Product Donations**  31.1 10.9 18.9 48.1 47.2 	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/economic -impacts/direct -impacts.html 
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Baxter (Reinvested)  
Capital Expenditures  692 954 1,014  963 960 
R&D Expenses  760 868 917 915 946 
* Baxter and The Baxter International Foundation  
** Variations in Baxter's annual product donations are due to fluctuations in community needs, the regula tory environment, manufacturing processes and 
marketing. The company identifies opportunities to donate and responds to community requests as appropriate.  
Baxter ʼs Share Performance  
See Baxter's 2011 Annual Report  to view a graph that compares the change in cumulative total shareholder return (including 
reinvested dividends) on Baxter's common stock with the Standard & Poor's 500 Composite Index and the Standard & Poo r's 500 
Health Care Index as of December 31 of each year.  
For additional detail, see Baxter's interactive stock chart.  
Local communities benefit from Baxte r's presence through wages the company pays employees as well as other expenditures and 
investments. In April 2012, Baxter announced it will build a new state -of-the-art manufacturing facility in Covington, Georgia, United 
States, to support growth of its plasma -based treatments, including for immune disorders, trauma and other critical conditions. Baxter 
expects capital investments at the site to exceed $1 billion over the next five years and to result in the creation of more than 1,500 full -
time positions  in Georgia and more than 2,000 jobs in total across multiple U.S. locations. Learn more.  
In some Baxter manufacturing plants, Baxter employs physici ans who provide free or inexpensive healthcare to employees' families 
and other community members. During the 2011- 2012 season, Baxter facilities in the following locations offered free or subsidized 
seasonal flu vaccinations to employees and their family members: Argentina (Buenos Aires), Australia (Toongabbie), Austria (Vienna 
and Orth), Chile (Cortijo), South Korea, Mexico, Philippines (Canlubang), Puerto Rico (Aibonito, Catano and Guayama), Spain 
(Sabiñánigo), the United States (Largo, Florida) and Vene zuela. A total of 560 vaccinations were provided through this initiative.  
In addition, many Baxter facilities support local charities (see Critical Community Needs  for detail).	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/economic -impacts/indirect -impacts.html 
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Indirect Impacts  
Baxter's main indirect economic impact is through its products and innovations (see Scientific Excellence  for detailed information 
about the company's diverse capabilities in medical devices, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology, including specialty biologics). With 
more than 50 production facilities in 27 countries, proprietary technologies, and complementary manufacturing p latforms across its 
businesses, the company can produce high -quality products cost -effectively for local and regional markets, helping improve 
healthcare quality worldwide.  
By using Baxter products, many patients extend and improve the quality of their liv es and in some cases may avert further health 
expenses. The company conducts economic research, reviews external studies and works to provide governments, healthcare 
organizations and patients the information needed to make the best possible decisions abou t treatment. 
For example, Baxter is the world's leading manufacturer of peritoneal dialysis (PD) products to treat patients with end -stage renal 
disease, or irreversible kidney failure. PD is a self -administered in -home therapy. Health economic studies sho w that in countries 
where PD use is relatively low, a shift to a higher proportion of PD patients would reduce costs considerably, thereby freeing up 
resources to treat a larger number of patients.1 
For example, in China, the dialysis population increases by 10% -12% per year, with 89% of those using in -center HD compared to 
11% using PD. A budget impact model demonstrates that increasing PD patients to 21% over four years would reduce the country's 
cumulative five year dialysis spending by 370 million RMB ( $US 54 million). These savings would allow an additional 3,876 patient -
years of treatment. Increasing the percentage of PD patients to 40% would provide for an additional 11,931 patient -years of 
treatment.2 See more information about PD and access to healt hcare in Poduct Development.  
In the United States, catheter -related bloodstream infections (CRBSIs) cost an average of $34,000 per patient in increased hospital 
costs and extend patient length -of-stay by an average of 23 days.3,4 Baxter's V -LINK Luer activ ated device with Vitalshield protective 
coating, which was launched in the United States in 2008, is an intravenous connector that allows needle -free access to the patient's 
bloodstream. The Vitalshield technology is an antimicrobial coating that has been shown to kill at least 99.99% of six common 
pathogens known to cause CRBSIs. The V -LINK Luer activated device has since been introduced across most regions globally.  
Baxter spending also has a "multiplier effect" on the broader economy, for example, throug h creating jobs in the supply chain and 
supporting services such as air travel or hospitality. Baxter does not measure these impacts, but believes they are significant given the company's size and scope. For example, Baxter paid its suppliers approximately  $5.7 billion in 2011, which those suppliers then used 
to pay their suppliers, provide their employees with wages and benefits, and pay taxes and other expenses.  
1 "Gaining Efficiencies: Resources and Demand for Dialysis around the Globe," Neil et al, Valu e in Health (International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and 
Outcomes Research), 2009, 73 -79. 
2 "Economic Evaluations of Dialysis Treatment Modalities," Just et al, Health Policy 86 (2008), 163 -180. 
3 "The Attributable Mortality and Costs of Primary Nosoco mial Bloodstream Infection in the Intensive Care Unit," DiGiovine B, et al, Am J Respir Crit Care Med, 
1999; 160: 976 -981. 
4 "Hospital -acquired Infections in Pennsylvania," Pennsylvania Health Care Cost Containment Council, November 2006.	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/economic -impacts/bus iness -value.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Business Value  
Pursuing sustainability demonstrates Baxter's values, supports its social commitments and reduces the company’s environmental 
impacts. Sustainability also enhances Baxter’s business, as described in the following table.  
 
Cost Savings and Avoidance   
• Environmental Financial Statement  
• Energy savings  from operations  
• Reduced waste  
• More efficient water use  
• Decreased worker's compensation through enhanced employee  health and safety  
• Improved packaging designs with decreased materials use  
• Supply chain optimization  
Market Access   
• Product quality , safety  and integrity  
• Compliance with regulations worldwide such as the European Union Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE)  
Directive, Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Directive , Evaluat ion and Authorisation of Chemicals (REACH) Directive  
Employee Engagement    
• Talent acquisition and retention  
• Talent management  and development  
• Sustainability edu cation  
• Global inclusion and diversity  
• Work/life programs  
New and Expanding Markets   
• Peritoneal dialysis  
• Materials innovations  
• Requests for proposals (RFPs) including environmental and social criteria  
• Products and solutions targeting customers  at the "Base of the Pyramid" * 
• Partnering with health authorities to expand access to h ealthcare  
Enhanced Brand and Reputation    
• Inclusion in socially responsible investment indices  
• Improved reputation through awards and recognition  
• Leadership in addressing global climate change and other sustainability issues  
• Enhanced relationships with local communities and other stakeholders  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/economic -impacts/bus iness -value.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  * The term "base of  the pyramid" refers to the approximately 4 billion people worldwide who each live on less than $1,500 annually and have limited access to 
the healthcare market.  
Managing Risk  
Baxter also manages various risk factors related to sustainability such as product quality, efficacy and safety; compliance with laws 
and regulations worldwide; governmental and other policies related to reimbursement for medical products; and intellectual property 
protection. See pages 6- 12 of Baxter's Annual Report on Form 10- K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 for more detail. 
Additional information about Baxter's approach in some of these areas is included in this report as well, such as in Quality , Safety , 
Environmental, Health and Safety – Compliance  and Product Use .   
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics -complia nce/index.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Governance, Ethics and Compliance  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
     
 
  
 
  
 
As a global healthcare company operating in more than 100 countries, Baxter is committed to effective 
corporate governance, adherence to the law, and a culture of ethics and compliance throughou t the 
organization.  
In 1995, Baxter became one of the first companies to adopt formal corporate governance guidelines. These guidelines address the 
operation of Baxter’s board of directors and board committees, which in turn govern the management of the co mpany and represent 
shareholder interests. At Baxter, re -examining the company’s practices and setting new standards is an ongoing process. Today's 
corporate governance guidelines reflect this evolution.  
Baxter’s Ethics and Compliance team works closely wi th operating and legal teams based regionally in Baxter's businesses to ensure 
that the company’s activities adhere to applicable laws and to company policies. The organization offers numerous channels to 
educate and counsel employees as well as confidenti al avenues to report alleged violations of law and policy, which it investigates 
promptly and reports to senior management as appropriate.  
This section covers the following topics:  
• Corporate  Governance  
• Codes  and Standards  
• Ethics  and Compliance  Structure  and Programs  
• Communication  and Guidance  
 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics -compliance/corporate -governance.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Corporate Governance  
Baxter is operated under  the direction of the company's board of directors. In 2011, 11 independent directors and Baxter's chief 
executive officer (CEO) comprised the company's 12 -person board.  
Baxter's CEO also serves as the chairman of the board. The board believes this provide s a single vision for the company and results in 
an efficient and effective organizational structure.  
The board also annually appoints an independent lead director, who presides at executive sessions of the board and serves as a 
liaison between the other i ndependent directors and the chairman. The lead director also reviews meeting agendas, works with the 
chairman to facilitate timely and appropriate information flow to the board, and serves as the contact person for interested parties to 
communicate direct ly with the independent members of the board.  
Baxter has long adhered to principles designed to ensure effective corporate governance. Since 1995, the board has had in 
place corporate governance  guidelines that address the operation of the board and its committees, strategic and succession planning, 
and director qualifications, independence and compensation.  
Baxter's board has six committees: Audit, Compensation, Corpora te Governance, Finance, Public Policy, and Science and 
Technology. Each is made up of independent directors and has the authority to obtain advice or assistance from outside experts, as 
the committee deems appropriate. The roles of these committees are des cribed in the following table. Click on each link to view more 
detail, including a list of current members.  
Audit  Committee  Focuses on the integrity o f Baxter's financial statements, system of internal accounting 
controls, the internal and external audit process, and the process for monitoring 
compliance with laws and regulations.  
Compensation  Committee  Exercises the authority of the board relating to employee benefit and equity -based plans 
and the compensation of the company’s officers.  
Corporate  Governance  Committee  Assists and advises the board on director nominations, corporate governance, and 
general board organization and planning matters.  
Finance  Committee  Assists the board in fulfilling its responsibilities in connection with the company’s financial 
affairs, including overseeing financial proposals, capital ex penditures, acquisitions, 
divestitures, dividend proposals, share repurchases, management of pension assets, 
financial policies and other financial actions.  
Public  Policy  Committee  Assists the board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities with respect to legal, regulatory 
and other compliance matters, and advises the board with respect to Baxter’s 
responsibilities as a global corporate cit izen, including the range of topics discussed in 
this report. The committee annually reviews the company's sustainability initiatives, 
including with respect to the spectrum of topics discussed in this report, and reports on 
these activities to the full bo ard. 
Science  and Technology  Committee  Reviews and assists in the oversight of Baxter’s long -term research and development 
(“R&D”) strate gies and objectives, R&D pipeline and significant technology platforms; 
evaluates emerging issues and trends in science and technology that may affect the 
company’s overall business strategy.  
 	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics -compliance/corporate -governance.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  The board meets in executive session at each regularly schedul ed meeting, and convened eight times in 2011. Board committees held 
a total of 34 meetings in 2011. Average attendance was approximately 95% across all board and board committee meetings. View 
more information on the  board's  activities  and responsibilities . 
The board considers candidates for director recommended by shareholders, board members, management and an independent 
search firm retained by the  board to help identify and evaluate potential director nominees. The board evaluates all candidates in the 
same manner regardless of the source of recommendation. Directors are selected on the basis of talent and experience. The selection 
process takes into account diversity of background, including gender, race, ethnic or geographic origin, age and experience (in fields 
such as business, government and education as well as healthcare, science and technology). A nominee’s ability to meet the 
independence c riteria established by the New York Stock Exchange is also a factor in the selection process. 
Executive Compensation  
Baxter’s executive compensation program is designed to recognize company and individual performance, drive the long -term 
financial performa nce of the company (and in doing so, encourage innovation and appropriate levels of risk -taking), and reflect the 
value of each officer’s position in the market and within the company. Baxter’s executive officers a re compensated in a manner that  
is consistent with these principles, aligns the interests of management and shareholders, and drives sustained and superior 
performance relative to the company’s peers. The program is also designed to be competitive with companies with which Baxter 
competes for exec utive talent in order to attract, retain and motivate high- performing executives. See Baxter’s  2012 Proxy  
Statement  for more detail.  
Demonstrating its co mmitment in this area, the board adopted an executive compensation recoupment policy in February 2009.  
This policy allows the board to take any actions it deems appropriate with respect to executive incentive compensation following any 
restatement of the c ompany’s financial results that requires an amendment to previously filed results, or if an officer violates a 
restrictive covenant in any agreement between the company and the officer.  
Stock Ownership Guidelines for Executive Officers and Board Members  
To further align the interests of directors and management with shareholders, Baxter requires its executive officers and directors to 
own Baxter stock. Baxter’s CEO is required to achieve ownership of Baxter common stock valued at six times annual base salar y. 
Each of the other executive officers is required to achieve ownership of Baxter common stock valued at four times annual base salary 
within five years of becoming an executive officer. Each director is to hold Baxter common stock equal to five times ann ual cash 
retainer after five years of board service. 
Communicating with the Board of Directors  
Shareholders and other interested parties may communicate directly with any of Baxter’s directors by 
emailing boardofdirectors@baxter.com  or writing a letter to Baxter Director c/o Corporate Secretary, Baxter International Inc., One 
Baxter Parkway, Deerfield, Illinois 60015. Baxter’s Corporate Secretary will forward communications directly to the lead director, 
unless a different director is specified.  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics -compliance/codes- and-standards.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Codes and Standards  
Code of Conduct  
Baxter’s Codes and Standards are designed for employees and also extend to the company’s relationships with suppliers, healthcare 
practitioners, medical institutions and patient organizations.  
Baxter’s  Code  of Conduct  defines the core principles that govern employee behavior at Baxter and how the  company conducts its 
business. The Code applies to Baxter's board of directors, and all of its employees including the company’s chief executive officer 
and other senior management. It builds on Baxter’s long -standing commitment to leadership in ethical b usiness practices, covering 
topics such as protection and use of company assets, accurate recordkeeping, competitive and confidential information, sales and 
marketing practices, anticorruption, insider trading, bioethics, conflicts of interest, gifts and t rade compliance. The Code’s user-
friendly format includes questions and answers, decision guides and lists of additional resources available to employees to help 
maintain a culture of integrity throughout Baxter.  
As Baxter expands its global presence, the company has increased the number of languages in which its Code of Conduct is 
available. In 2011, Baxter translated the Code into Slovenian, for a total of 22 languages.  
All new Baxter employees receive Code of Conduct training within the first three month s of employment. Baxter’s corporate policies 
support the Code by defining Baxter’s intentions, setting behavioral expectations and requiring certain actions with respect to 
particular topics. A comprehensive Intranet site provides employees with additional information on corporate policies. 
Baxter’s Code of Conduct reflects evolving regulations and stakeholder expectations governing industry practices, and also extends 
to the company’s relationships with healthcare professionals, medical institutions and pa tient organizations globally. This includes 
Baxter’s Global Anticorruption Policy, which covers how the company’s employees, contractors, agents and third parties conduct 
themselves with government officials. In addition, the Code requires the prompt repor ting of suggested misconduct and outlines the 
consequences of failure to comply with applicable laws or Baxter's policies and procedures. Baxter provides ongoing training and a 
Code of Conduct website to keep employees up to date on the company’s ethics an d compliance policies, topic -specific training and 
other tools and resources.  
Standards for Baxter Suppliers  
The company’s Ethics and Compliance Standards for Baxter Suppliers is designed to ensure that all Baxter suppliers also comply with 
the company’s C ode of Conduct. These standards, translated into 20 languages, define policies and set common expectations about 
ethical behavior when doing business with Baxter. They also define the expected conduct when working for or on behalf of Baxter and 
are a forma l part of standard Baxter supplier agreements. Baxter’s Purchasing and Supplier Management group evaluates and 
approves all key suppliers before any materials, components, products or services may be purchased. Suppliers must agree to abide 
by these standards which are incorporated into supplier agreements, to conduct business with Baxter (see  Managing  Supplier  
Performance for more information). Additionally, t he Baxter  Supplier  Quality  Standard specifically addresses sustainability issues, 
including indentured and child labor, employment standards, waste and en ergy reduction, and ethics.  
In addition to the standards described above, Baxter has adopted other professional codes of ethics, including:  
• AdvaMed  Code  of Ethics  on Interactions  with Health  Care  Professionals;  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics -compliance/codes- and-standards.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  • Ethics & Compliance Officer Association (ECOA)  Standards  of Conduct  for Business  Ethics  and Compliance  Professionals;  
• European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA)  Code  of Practice on Relationships  with Patient  
Organizations ; 
• Institute fo r Supply Management (ISM)  Principles and Standards  of Ethical  Supply  Management  Conduct ; 
• Professional Society of Engineers  Code  of Ethics  for Engineers;  
• Regulatory Affairs Professionals (RAPS)  Code  of Ethics  for Regulatory  Affairs  Professionals; and  
• Society for Corporate Compliance and Ethics (SCCE)  Code  of Ethics  for Compliance  and Ethics  Professionals.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics -compliance/structure -and-programs.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International  Inc. All Rights Reserved. Ethics and Compliance Structure and Programs  
Baxter designed  and updates its ethics and compliance structure and programs regularly to reflect the needs of a diversified and 
complex global healthcare company. Additionally, the company manages a range of programs and activities to help employees make 
good decisions about appropriate behaviors in the markets in which they operate.  
Corporate Responsibility Office 
The Corporate  Responsibility  Office  (CRO), established by Baxter’s board in 1993 and composed of six senior executives, is 
responsible for communicating the company’s ethics and compliance standards, providing guidance and overseeing training to 
employees and directors, maintaining multiple channels for employees to report concerns, and monitoring compliance. The CRO, 
which meets at least every quarter, reports to the board's Public Policy Committee and reports on financial matters to the board's 
Audit Committee (see graphic). Baxter was one of the first companies to establish a direct reporting relationship between its CRO  
and its board, ensuring ethics and compliance oversight at the highest level.  
The company has since established Regional Ethics and Compliance Committees to implement the C RO's charter globally and 
enhance corporate understanding of local cultures, values and behavioral norms. Membership in the Regional Ethics and Compliance 
Committees rotates to ensure broad employee exposure and participation. The company also has dedicate d compliance and legal 
resources in each of its global regions: Asia Pacific, Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA), and Latin America and Canada. At the 
business level, the company also has established similar governance structures for its BioScience and Medical Products businesses, 
bringing together a cross -functional group of commerical and functional leaders to enhance the effectiveness of Baxter’s compliance 
program.  
Corporate Audit conducted six audits (three in EMEA, two in Latin America andCanada, a nd one in Asia Pacific) that reviewed  
the implementation status of Baxter’s International Interactions with Healthcare Professionals, Medical Institutions and Non -Profit 
Organizations.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics -compliance/structure -and-programs.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International  Inc. All Rights Reserved. Certificate of Integrity and Compliance  
Each year, Baxter re quires executives, mid -level supervisors, sales representatives and other selected employees around the world to reaffirm their 
commitment to the company's ethics and compliance standards by completing and submitting a Certificate of Integrity and Complian ce (COIC). The 
COIC also serves as a reporting document that measures the integration of ethical business practices throughout Baxter. In 2011, more than 14,500 
employees who have manager or greater -level responsibilities completed the COIC, which is avail able in 12 languages.  
Legal and Regulatory Compliance Training  
Baxter requires employees worldwide to take Web -based training on legal and regulatory compliance. In 2011, more than 37,400 
employees completed more than 103,900 e -Learning courses covering ar eas such as product complaints, pharmacovigilance, 
adverse -event reporting procedures, workplace violence prevention, data privacy, trade compliance, requirements for selling to the 
U.S. government, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), antitrust, inte llectual property, and Baxter’s ethics and compliance 
standards. Baxter’s Ethics and Compliance group and Legal department also conducted 442 classroom sessions around the world in 
2011 to train a total of 13,844 employees on Baxter’s ethics and compliance  standards and supporting policies.  
Also in 2011, Baxter continued to implement its risk- based anticorruption education program to provide awareness -level training to 
most employees, and more advanced training to employees who regularly interact with gover nment officials and healthcare 
professionals. In 2011, Baxter conducted more than 300 international anticorruption training sessions, reaching over 9,500 employees 
in targeted positions, and more than 100 U.S. healthcare compliance training sessions to mor e than 4,000 employees.  
Relationships with Healthcare Professionals and Government Officials  
As government spending on healthcare as a percentage of gross domestic product or per capita income has increased in the United 
States and abroad, governments are seeking ways to reduce pressure on their budgets while maintaining current or improved levels of 
healthcare delivery. At the same time, healthcare companies face the perception that their marketing programs and R&D and 
production costs are significant fact ors in increasing healthcare costs. With this additional scrutiny, companies such as Baxter 
reinforce the importance of transparent relationships with healthcare professionals. This includes anticorruption programs that work to 
ensure that those relationsh ips and related payments are for necessary and bona fide services. As a company dedicated to making a 
meaningful difference in patients’ lives, Baxter’s integrity in this area is paramount. 
Physician Payment Disclosure/Sunshine Act  
Beginning in 2013, companies operating in the United States that manufacture covered drugs, devices, biologics and medical 
supplies will be required to report to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) all payments (such as consulting fees, 
travel and lodging, meals, education grants and royalties) provided to U.S. healthcare professionals (HCPs) and healthcare 
organizations (HCOs) that total more than $100. As an example, Baxter makes payments to physicians who serve as investigators in 
clinical trials and collaborat e on other R&D initiatives to compensate them at fair market for needed work done on the company’s 
behalf.  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics -compliance/structure -and-programs.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International  Inc. All Rights Reserved. In response to the Sunshine Act, which was passed into law as part of U.S. healthcare reform 2010, Baxter implemented a program to 
address all applic able requirements and to help ensure compliance. While the U.S. government will disclose the reporting period later 
in 2012, as of January 1, Baxter started collecting all payments and other transfers of value given to U.S. HCPs and HCOs. 
Additionally, Baxter has updated all applicable Baxter policies to include mandatory requirements, and all U.S. company employees 
were required to complete training to understand the law, Baxter’s updated systems and policies, and their individual role in ensuring 
complian ce. 
International Anticorruption Activities  
During 2011, Baxter’s Ethics and Compliance team, working closely with other groups and functions in the company, continued to 
develop additional, innovative tools and approaches to conduct periodic assessments a nd reviews of Baxter’s global operations with 
regard to key corruption risks. In 2011, Baxter conducted such activities with regards to its operations in Brazil, Colombia and Mexico 
in Latin America; Australia, China, India, Japan and Taiwan in Asia Pacifi c; and Czech Republic, France, Greece, Italy, Portugal, Saudi 
Arabia, Switzerland and Turkey in EMEA. Results of the assessments have shown continued progress in awareness, understanding 
and implementation of Baxter’s anti -corruption programs.  
Also in 2011 , Baxter continued global execution of its International Anticorruption Third Party Policy, with particular emphasis on 
business partners who interface with non -US healthcare professionals and government agencies in activities such as, but not limited 
to the approval, registration, promotion and sales of Baxter’s products and therapies.  
This multi -facetted program includes a robust process to conduct due diligence on such business partners, as well as to retain and 
train them with respect to anticorruption laws and Baxter’s standards and expectations. The success of the Third Party program relies 
on extensive, ongoing collaboration between the Ethics and Compliance, Legal and Business teams, as well as externally with 
Baxter’s business partners.  
Because anti corruption efforts can be impeded or enhanced by others in the industry, Baxter also is committed to establishing and 
improving industry codes of conduct and enhancing ethical behavior across the healthcare industry.  
In 2011, Baxter continued to work with  Eucomed and AdvaMed on a European approach to third party anticorruption efforts, helping 
to create a standard industry approach. Additionally, Baxter’s China ethics and compliance team made progress with the Chinese 
industry association, RDPAC on advanci ng an industry- wide ethical sales and marketing code. Industry members of RDPAC would be 
expected to follow that code of ethics and apply it in their daily interactions with healthcare professionals and government officials. 
Baxter also continues to evalua te how broader anticorruption initiatives such as the UN Global Compact, World Economic Forum 
Partnering Against Corruption Initiative or the Organisation for Economic Co -operation and Development Principles may complement 
the company’s approach. 
 
 
 
 
 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics -compliance/structure -and-programs.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International  Inc. All Rights Reserved. Trade Compliance  
As part of Baxter’s commitment to integrity and compliance in its business relationships, the company revamped and re -launched its 
global trade compliance policy, identified and trained trade compliance officers globally, and established tools  and processes to 
screen for, and address trade compliance risks. The company also re -launched its Export Control and Economic Sanctions training 
course. Key employee groups are required to complete this course, which is intended to raise awareness about g lobal export controls 
and economic sanctions, and their impact on Baxter, its employees and customers. The course also focuses on Baxter's policies and 
procedures, as well as the responsibility of employees to ensure compliance in this area. 
Data Privacy a nd Security  
In the course of business, consumers, patients, plasma donors, healthcare professionals, employees and others share personal 
information with Baxter. Privacy laws and our  global  privacy  policy , adopted in 2010, require the company to protect this information. 
The company’s policy defines Baxter’s privacy standards and ensures that all of the company’s global operations follow similar 
controls for protectin g the personal information of Baxter stakeholders. In 2011, all employees in the United States completed an 
online training course on the policy. As part of a phased approach, employees in other countries will be required to complete the 
training in 2012.  
Baxter’s global privacy program includes a Global Privacy Council and a network of Local Privacy Owners (LPOs).The council 
manages and oversees the protection of personal information companywide while the LPOs are responsible for privacy compliance in 
their respective countries. Canada, the United States and all countries in Europe had LPOs in place by the end of 2011. The company 
began to introduce the privacy program in the Asia Pacific and Latin America regions in the latter part of the year as well.  
Closely aligned with data privacy is information security. Baxter’s Information Technology (IT) Risk Governance Board meets quarterly 
to ensure appropriate accountability and decision -making relative to IT risks. In 2011, Baxter established a cross -functional  
Information Governance Council to prioritize organizational response to security, privacy and legal information risks. The company has 
also established a robust Information Protection program, complete with global policies, organizational awareness and co mpliance 
systems, to enforce appropriate use and protection of Baxter information and technology. For example, Baxter deployed an 
Information Classification and Trade Secret Policy in 2011 that was translated into 14 languages and communicated to and 
ackno wledged by all employees via a mandatory e -training course. In 2012, Baxter is implementing additional security technologies to 
identify and protect sensitive electronic files and data , while extending its capability to log, monitor and manage information  sent via 
e-mail and other network transit. This investment will help strengthen the company’s security capabilities and support its commitment 
to protect the best interests of customers, employees, management and other stakeholders.  
Advertising and Promot ion 
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and other agencies worldwide regulate the advertising and promotion of 
pharmaceuticals, medical devices and biologics. Included in FDA’s oversight are print and broadcast advertising, websites, press 
releases , sales brochures, scientific symposia and convention booths, among other promotional materials and activities. Baxter’s 
Advertising and Promotion staff manage the company’s compliance with promotional regulations companywide. See  Product  Use for 
more detail.  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics -compliance/communication -and-guidance.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Communication and Compliance  
Open communication is at the core of Baxter’s commitment to integrity. The organization offers numerous channels to educ ate and 
counsel employees as well as confidential avenues to report alleged violations of law and policy, which it investigates promptly and 
reports to senior management as appropriate. Managers are responsible for maintaining an environment that enables e mployees to 
safely raise and discuss issues. Baxter encourages employees to seek guidance and report concerns through a number of formal 
channels (see graphic). Through these channels, Baxter prevents incidents from occurring and addresses issues when they  do arise.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
One such channel is the Baxter Ethics and Compliance Helpline, a telephone and Web resource available to employees and their 
families, suppliers, customers and other stakeholders. Callers can report an issue or seek guidance in thei r local language. Counselors 
are available in 150 languages, 24 hours a day, seven days a week.  
 
 
 
 
In 2011, 408 inquiries were logged into the Helpline system and addressed in a prompt, thorough and professional manner.  
Not all these inquiries were repor ts of alleged misconduct or compliance in nature. In all cases, Baxter encourages employees to use 
the Helpline, COIC process and other channels to ask questions and seek advice. Items identified through these channels also help 
Ethics and Compliance perso nnel to identify key risks, develop appropriate training, and design and apply compliance assessment 
methodologies.  
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2011 -report /ethics -and-compliance.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Case Study: Baxter ʼs Regional Presidents Take an Active 
Role in Ethics and Compliance  
Integrity is the foundation of Baxter’s long -term su ccess. Every day, Baxter’s stakeholders 
around the world – customers, patients, regulators, investors and employees – count on the 
company’s dedication to ethics and compliance. Baxter is committed to both complying with 
the law in the more than 100 countr ies where it operates, as well as driving a culture of ethics 
and compliance throughout the organization.  
As a global healthcare company, this includes strong company and regional leadership that 
focuses on growing Baxter’s business in a way that is consis tent with the law and reflects the 
company’s values. Baxter’s regional presidents set the tone for ethics and compliance within 
each region, including setting expectations for how each country leadership team will drive 
accountability for ethics and compli ance in their organizations. Here, they take a moment to talk 
about how they integrate ethics and compliance into their regional and country commercial 
teams.  
Wolf Kupatt  
President, Latin America and Canada  
“Since joining the Latin America and Canada (LAC) region in 2010, I have made it my personal commitment to reinforce Baxter’s 
culture of integrity and compliance across the region.  
We take our ethics and compliance obligations very seriously. In addition to full -time regional compliance counsel, the crea tion of a 
regional compliance committee and ongoing educational programs for LAC staff, we are fortifying our compliance efforts at the 
country level by establishing local compliance committees in every country where we operate. While our LAC regional comp liance 
committee provides high -level, strategic guidance, country committees will play a key role in ’institutionalizing’ local compliance under 
the leadership of country general managers. Country committee members will serve as ambassadors of Baxter’s sta ndards and 
procedures through training, ongoing open communication with fellow employees and their business partners and other efforts.  
I truly believe our efforts will provide a solid platform for compliance in LAC and thus help to ensure the sustainabili ty of our country 
operations.”  
Gerald Lema  
President, Asia Pacific 
“Ethics and compliance has always been an important component of our strategy in Asia Pacific – Executing Today; Building for the 
Future. We feel a deep sense of pride as we see the results  of the efforts we first undertook several years ago. We have a solid 
compliance framework in place and strong commitment to integrity is clearly visible within the organization. Externally, Baxter is 
perceived as an industry leader in compliance in variou s markets.  
We are conscious that “compliance” (as defined by U.S. and local laws and industry codes) does not always come naturally to all 
employees. Asia Pacific has a very diverse culture, legal frameworks and different levels of economic development so we need to 
provide clear and direct guidance on which activities or actions are compliant and which are not. It requires continuous effort to 
ensure our employees work according to Baxter’s standards according. We consistently drive awareness and encourage  open 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2011 -report /ethics -and-compliance.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  discussions in cases which are ambiguous. We also conduct innovative training programs to equip employees with the necessary 
skills and understanding to conduct business the Baxter way. In addition, by integrating compliance into hiring and goal -setting 
processes, we further enhance fitness and underscore accountability.  
As a leadership team in Asia Pacific, we have a strong belief and commitment to continue to grow and to do so only in the right way.”  
Peter Nicklin  
President, Europe, Middle East and Africa 
“The Ethics and Compliance program in the Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) region has become a strong part of our fabric. 
Indeed, compliance is one of EMEA’s top 10 strategic priorities for 2012. I have worked closely with the leadership teams in each 
country to not only set the right tone and direction, but to build compliance as a core area of focus and responsibility for leaders 
within the region.  
To help drive local ownership, accountability and actions related to regional compliance, we’ve rolled out a Compliance Dashboard 
that helps each country in EMEA to identify their most significant compliance challenges and capture related action plans. Further 
elevating the role of compliance and tying it to performance, each country general manager presents on their section of the dashboard 
during all business reviews.  
We’ve also taken an innovative approach to training. In 2012, we wanted to send a clear message that compliance is a shared 
responsibility so the compliance training sessions at our re gional national sales meetings were led or co -led by either the general 
manager or senior members of the commercial team. Additionally, I sponsored a ’Leading for Integrity’ training program for my senior 
management team, and all general managers and count ry managing directors to further underscore the critical role they play. They 
were then charged with identifying two concrete actions for 2012 that would help enhance a culture of compliance.”   
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/index.html  
© Copyright 201 2 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Employees  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Providing a rewarding place for Baxter's approximately 48,500 employees worldwide to work and develop is 
a critical component of the company's vision. To help employees realize their full potential, Baxter offers a 
variety of traini ng and development opportunities as well as comprehensive compensation and benefits. 
Additionally, the company strives to create an inclusive and diverse work environment that provides 
employees with the flexibility to manage their work and personal lives.  
Baxter's workplace culture is defined by the shared values, competencies and personal attributes that employees need to succeed. 
With a common understanding of how to approach their work, Baxter employees know what to expect from one another, and how to 
achieve great results. These  Baxter  Leadership Expectations  apply to every employee, every day and everywhere at Baxter.  
This section covers the following topics:  
• Talent  Management  
• Sustainability  Education 
• Compensation  and Benefits  
• Measuring  Company  Culture  
• Global  Inclusion  and Diversity  
• Work/Life  
View a chart of  Baxter's  Global  Workforce . 
 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/employees/talent -management.html  
© Copyright 201 2 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved. Talent Management  
To ensure the sustainability of its workforce and to drive a high -performing culture, Baxter focuses on the following areas: 
• Leadership Expectations  
• Individual  and Corporate  Goal  Alignment  
• Succession  Planning 
• Talent  Assessment  and Development  
Leadership Expec tations  
The Baxter Leadership Expectations ( see graphic), which provide the foundation for the company's culture, outline what the company 
expects of all em ployees. This framework includes the following:  
• Shared Values  - the beliefs and standards employees bring to their work;  
• Competencies  - the skills and knowledge necessary to achieve goals; and  
• Personal Attributes  - the characteristics and behaviors that en able employees to succeed at Baxter.  
The company integrates these expectations into recruiting, hiring, orientation, performance management, training and development, 
and assessment.  
In 2011, Baxter introduced a global, multi- year effort to drive continuou s improvement and accountability to help build a more 
responsive and flexible organization that can better adapt to the changing macro -economic and global healthcare environment. The 
effort focuses on re -engineering critical global processes while creating  a common culture of continuous improvement and 
accountability.  
Individual and Corporate Goal Alignment  
At Baxter, employees and teams align individual and organizational objectives to ensure that everyone is working to achieve company 
goals. Individuals a nd teams companywide establish work plans and set specific, measurable targets to help Baxter achieve its goals.  
Baxter's global goals focus on six categories:  
 
 
	  
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/employees/talent -management.html  
© Copyright 201 2 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved. Succession Planning  
To ensure a robust leadership pipeline that meets current and future bus iness needs, the company continually assesses its talent 
through its succession planning process. The CEO conducts an annual talent review of the company’s businesses, regions and 
functions with the Operations Committee (i.e. senior management) to ensure o rganizational effectiveness and workforce capability 
needs are being met. At least annually, the CEO reviews management development and succession planning with the company’s 
Board of Directors. The Board of Directors oversees the succession planning proce ss to ensure it is rigorous and effective and that 
the company’s diversity goals are supported.  
The Corporate Governance Committee of the Board oversees succession planning for the CEO.  
Talent Development and Assessment  
Baxter’s talent development philoso phy emphasizes having a combination of three elements in order to be an effective manager of 
others and leader: work experiences, feedback and coaching, and training. The illustration below emphasizes that Baxter places 
greater emphasis on providing challe nging work experiences to its talent, relative to feedback and training, to develop the company’s 
talent.  
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/employees/talent -management.html  
© Copyright 201 2 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved. Baxter believes that development should be:  
• A shared responsibility, owned by each employee, his or her manager and Baxter;  
• A process and not an event ; 
• Focused on goals important to both the employee and Baxter; 
• Focused on short -term actions as well as long -term career goals; and  
• Achieved through work experiences, learning from feedback and relationships, and training.  
To assist employees, Baxter provid es a practical guide called "Your Career Development at Baxter." Managers are trained to use this 
guide - available in 15 languages - for career planning conversations with their employees.  
Baxter provides a wide variety of training and development resourc es for employees to apply to their current role and develop in their 
career development through ISOtrain, the company’s global training system. ISOtrain provides a course catalog of greater than 25,000 
computer based and classroom offerings on topics such as Food and Drug Administration regulations, Good Manufacturing Practice 
guidelines and job specific skills. In 2011, employees globally completed nearly 3 million hours of training, an average of 54 hours per 
employee.  
Baxter's learning management system and Performance and Career Intranet site provide comprehensive information about 
performance expectations and goals, development, training and jobs at Baxter. Online learning is available to all employees, with 
courses offered in up to 20 languages. More t han 650 e- Learning programs, including courses offered through ISOtrain, cover topics 
such as Baxter processes, systems and products; quality; leadership and career development; PC skills; environment, health and 
safety; pharmacovigilance; project manageme nt; and communication. Employees completed more than 194,000 e -Learning courses 
in 2011. Additionally, in 2011, all employees completed a mandatory inclusion awareness course. Also see  Ethics  and Compliance  for 
information on legal and regulatory compliance training.  
In addition to offering talent development training, Baxter is continually enhancing its employee performance assessment process . 
Managers review employee performance annually against their established goals as well as the Baxter Leadership Expectations, and 
individual performance contributes to differentiated rewards (see  Compensation  and Benefits ). Mid -year reviews also are encouraged. 
In addition to these formal reviews, the company encourages managers to provide employees with ongoing coaching and feedback. 
As part of the annual performanc e review process, both employee and manager identify strengths and development areas and then 
conduct ongoing discussions throughout the year. Voluntary employee turnover in 2011 was 10.3% globally.  
Top Talent Development  
In 2011, Baxter introduced its Lea dership Powerhouse program for top talent who hold critical leadership roles at the company. 
Developed in partnership with Harvard University, the program enables participants to interact with thought leaders and experts from 
Harvard and Baxter, to analyze  and discuss business cases and learn from colleagues. This unique program focuses on a variety of 
topics from strategic thinking and decision making to creating an innovative culture and driving accountability. It also leverages a web 
portal for reading a ssignments, case studies, webinars and online discussions. In 2011, 54 Baxter leaders participated.  
Training for Managers  
Baxter also provides managers and supervisors with the tools and techniques to be effective leaders. The company's Management 
Essentia ls training curriculum helps managers and supervisors develop and refine skills related to accountability, career and 
development planning, change management, coaching and feedback, communication, critical thinking and problem solving, 	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/employees/talent -management.html  
© Copyright 201 2 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved. facilitation, interv iewing, and managing conflict and performance. During 2011, 2,841 managers completed at least one Management 
Essentials course.  
As managers progress from supervising individuals to leading teams, they face new challenges and demands. In 2011, Baxter held 1 1 
sessions of Leading for Results, a program for experienced managers and directors introduced in 2009. It consists of live workshops, 
online courses and webinars to address aspects of the Baxter Leadership Expectations, including business acumen, motivati ng and 
developing others, critical thinking and problem solving, and communication. During 2011, 156 employees completed at least one 
Leading for Results course.  
To help employees develop mentoring relationships, share experiences and transfer career -related knowledge, in 2009, Baxter 
introduced a global online employee mentoring program, which helps connect mentors and mentees based on their customized 
profiles. Participants also receive resources, tools and guidance to support the mentoring relationships.  As of year -end 2011, over 
1,300 employees have enrolled. In 2011, Baxter’s BioScience and Medical Products businesses launched the Women & Ethnic 
Minority Mentoring program, a diversity -driven mentoring program to accelerate the upward movement of directo r level and above top 
talent women and minorities. The program matches mentees with senior leaders from their respective business.  
Employee Perspective 
	  
	  	  
	  
	  	  
	  
	  	  	  
	  
	  	  
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/employees/sustainability -education.html  
© Copyright 201 2 Baxter Internatio nal Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Sustainability Education  
To achieve Baxter’s sustainability goals, the company works to e ducate and engage employees in its sustainability initiatives. In 
Baxter’s 2011  Culture  of Survey , 77% of employees worldwide indicated that the company’s sustainabi lity programs were important 
to them. The Sustainability Steering Committee reviews survey results to assess progress and identify opportunities for improvement 
in programs related to the environment, health and safety, inclusion, ethics and compliance, an d other areas.  
Baxter engages and communicates with employees about its sustainability efforts through various channels, including:  
• Quarterly all -employee webcasts during which CEO Bob Parkinson discusses sustainability;  
• Regular internal communications about sustainability practices at the company worldwide;  
• A sustainability Intranet site that provides a portal for employees to provide feedback and ask questions about sustainability, 
including company sustainability success stories and tips and other tools to help engage employees on the company's 
sustainability priorities  
• A toolkit to help employees communicate about sustainability including posters, website banners, template cover letters, fact 
sheets and a PowerPoint presentation: 
• The Baxter  2011 Sustainability  Priorities  Report  that will be available in several languages;  
• Quarterly press releases highlighting achievements posted throughout facilities;  
• Recruitment information and new hire orientation sessions and packets include sustainability -related information; 
• Sponsored events about environmental initiatives and healthy living through  Baxter  World  Environment  Week , and 
BeWell@Baxter;  
• Volunteering to address local concerns such as  healthcare  and education; and  
• Baxter’s Environment, Health and Safety department partners with the Baxter Credit Union to offer rebates on purchases that 
support energy conservation such as hybrid cars and energy efficient appliances to educate employees about the benefits of 
environmentally- minded purchases . 
See Employee  Involvement  for more information.  
Employee Perspective 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/employees/compensation- and-benefits.html  
© Copyright 201 2 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved. Compensation and Benefits  
A critical component of Baxter's vision is to be a r ewarding place to work and develop. Central to this commitment, Baxter provides 
its employees with comprehensive compensation and benefits programs. The company's global total compensation philosophy is to 
provide market -competitive pay and benefits while rewarding employees for strong individual and business performance.  
Baxter's total compensation package includes base salary and may include incentive pay, such as cash bonuses and stock -based 
compensation. It also includes comprehensive benefits, which va ry by region and country, to help employees meet their healthcare, 
income -protection, financial, retirement and time -off needs. Through the Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP), Baxter employees 
can share in the company's growth. The ESPP allows employees t o purchase Baxter common stock each month at a 15% discount 
through convenient payroll deductions with no brokerage fees, subject to certain limitations.  
As part of Baxter's commitment to employee health and wellness both on the job and at home, Baxter off ers many programs and 
resources to help employees meet their personal goals and family needs (see  Work/Life ). BeWell@Baxter, the company's health and 
wellness effort, is designed to  help employees stay well through education and prevention, take action to make healthy lifestyle 
changes and deal with chronic or acute conditions.  
Executive Pay  
The Compensation  Committee  of Baxter's board of directors, which consists solely of independent, non -employee directors, 
determines executive officer compensation each year based on an assessment of competitive compensation market data, business 
conditions and company and individual performance. See Baxter's  2012 Proxy  Statement  for more details.  
 
 
 
     
 
   	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/employees/measuring- company -culture.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved. Measuring Company Culture  
Every two ye ars, Baxter conducts a companywide survey to gather employee feedback about what is going well and where the 
company needs to make improvements. Approximately 89% of Baxter's employees worldwide completed the company’s most recent 
survey in 2011, matching the 2009 response rate. The survey was administered in 17 languages in electronic and paper formats. In 
line with prior survey results, the company’s dedication to quality products and customer focus remain the highest -scoring areas.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based on  the 2011 survey results, Baxter identified the following areas for improvement:  
Continuous improvement:  Employee feedback reinforced the importance of the company’s 2011 effort to drive continuous 
improvement and  accountability . Continuous improvement and accountability are at the core of Baxter’s effort to build a culture where 
every employee is continuously evaluating how they can be more efficient and effective in their w ork. As part of this, Baxter introduced 
a formalized, standard approach for employees across the company to solve business problems.  
Clarity Around Strategy and Innovations:  Employees provided feedback that they want more clarity about the company’s strate gy 
as well as more information about what Baxter is doing to drive innovation. The company is focusing on strategy and innovation in 
more depth in a variety of internal communication channels.  
Global Inclusion:  While Baxter has shown improvement in this ar ea compared to 2009, global inclusion continues to be a focus area 
for the company. In addition to activities underway currently resulting from local business, region and function inclusion plans, Baxter 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/employees/measuring- company -culture.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved. has introduced a mandatory five -hour instructor -led workshop for all managers and supervisors. A phased global launch of this 
training workshop is planned for 2012. Learn  more . 
Employee Perspective 
	  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/employees/global -inclusion -diversity.html  
© Copyright 201 2 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved. Global Inclusion and Diversity  
Although having a diverse employee population (for example, in terms of age, gender, sexual orientation, race, ethnicity or religion) is 
essential, diversity alone does not ensure an inclusive culture. An inclusive organiz ation must also have policies, programs, processes 
and systems in place that engender respect and enable all employees to work together effectively.  
Baxter believes that an inclusive culture and a diverse workforce can contribute to the success and sustain ability of the company by 
driving innovation and creating trusted relationships with employees, customers, suppliers and community partners. This thinking 
forms the foundation of Baxter's global inclusion and diversity strategy, which is directly linked to  one of the company's shared values 
– respect for individuals and the diverse contributions of all. In addition to helping the company attract, motivate and retain a globally 
diverse workforce, Baxter’s focus in this area will help the company understand a nd address the diverse needs of our employees, 
customers and their patients. Baxter's global inclusion and diversity strategy focuses on four key areas:  
• Workforce  - building a globally diverse organization;  
• Workplace  - creating an inclusive culture in whic h diversity is valued;  
• Communities  - building partnerships with community -based organizations that embrace and support diverse stakeholder 
groups; and  
• Marketplace  - creating competitive advantage by promoting Baxter's commitment to inclusion through its br and, customers and 
supplier relationships.  
Learn more about Baxter’s programs and progress in the following areas:  
• Global  Inclusion  Council  
• Inclusion  and Diversity  Training 
• Busine ss Resource  Groups  
• 2011 Business  and Regional  Initiatives  
• Fair and Equal  Opportunity  for All Employees  
• Supplier  Diversity  
• Awards  
Global Inclusion Council  
Baxter’s Global Inclusion Council, which was established in 2008 provides thought leadership, guidance and support to enhance the 
company’s inclusive culture. In collaboration w ith the Global Inclusion Council, businesses, regions and functions globally have 
developed local inclusion plans. These plans incorporate Baxter- wide opportunities, in addition to addressing their unique inclusion 
priorities and requirements. This customi zed approach recognizes that there are unique needs in different geographies. Baxter 
believes this two- pronged approach will drive the sustainability of the company’s inclusion and diversity focus. 
The Council's executive sponsor is Baxter's Chief Science and Innovation Officer Dr. Norbert Riedel. “In an increasingly competitive 
global environment, our strong focus on inclusion and diversity is a critical element to our success and sustainability. Inclusion and 
diversity enhance our business performance,” D r. Riedel says. The Council works closely with the Human Resources Leadership 
Team and Baxter’s Sustainability Steering Committee, which ensures alignment and support among the company's senior leadership.  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/employees/global -inclusion -diversity.html  
© Copyright 201 2 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved. Inclusion and Diversity Training  
In 2011, all Baxt er employees completed a companywide training designed to educate employees on how they can contribute to an 
inclusive culture at Baxter. As a follow -up, Baxter piloted ‘The Power of Managing Inclusively’, a five -hour instructor -led, mandatory 
workshop for  all managers, supervisors and above. A phased global roll -out launched in early 2012.  
Also in 2011, Baxter asked all employees to take personal accountability for enhancing the company’s culture of inclusion and 
required employees to add an inclusion goal  in their individual goals for the year. All of Baxter’s senior executives included a goal 
focused on improving gender and/or ethnic minority representation and developing a more inclusive work environment in their annual 
performance plans, demonstrating a  strong commitment to inclusion and diversity from the top down.  
Business Resource Groups  
Business Resource Groups (BRGs) provide a forum for employees to share knowledge and ideas while embracing the unique 
backgrounds and perspectives of all participants . These groups support Baxter’s business goals and aim to enhance personal growth 
and multicultural understanding, while strengthening relationships among employees and with customers, partners and community 
partners. In 2011, Baxter established two BRGs, “Building Women Leaders” and “Latinos@Baxter.” Baxter’s Europe, Middle East and 
Africa (EMEA) region also established the “Female Talent Matters” BRG.  
2011 Business and Regional Initiatives  
• Baxter’s BioScience business sponsored “Women in Lifetime Leadersh ip (W.I.L.L.)”, a program to support the advancement of 
women across the business globally. This development program helps women develop key skills for leadership roles, build high -
impact networks and learn from networking experiences. Also, Baxter’s BioSc ience and Medical Products businesses launched 
the Women & Ethnic Minority Mentoring program, a diversity -driven mentoring program to accelerate the upward movement of 
director level and above top talent women and minorities. The program matches mentees wi th senior leaders from their 
respective business.  
• Baxter’s EMEA region formally documented its inclusion and diversity charter, created a detailed three -year plan, and secured 
region and country leadership commitment. The charter, which was signed by the regional president and senior leaders across 
the region, is prominently displayed in the lobbies of each country location. A strong cross -regional and cross -functional inclusion 
network represents the various countries within EMEA. In 2011, the region also led roundtable meetings with employees from all 
EMEA countries to incorporate employee feedback into its flexible work arrangements framework that will be rolled out in 2012.  
• Baxter’s Asia Pacific region continued its focus on the Building Talent Edge init iative, which aims to create a gender balance in 
critical leadership positions across 14 countries where Baxter operates. The company received the 2012 J -Win Diversity Award, 
which honor companies that proactively drive diversity and inclusion, for the com pany’s 2011 efforts in Japan. These included 
developing various programs for women, including with a focus on mentoring and working mothers. During the year, Baxter 
Japan also launched an alternate work arrangement program designed to promote work/life fle xibility. In Australia, the Australian 
government's Equal Opportunity for Women in the Workplace Agency (EOWA) recognized Baxter with the Employer of Choice for 
Women citation in March 2012. The EOWA publicly acknowledges organizations for their efforts in  making gender diversity a 
strategic imperative, promoting flexible working arrangements, ensuring men and women can access opportunities to develop 
their careers, and ensuring gender pay equity. 	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/employees/global -inclusion -diversity.html  
© Copyright 201 2 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved. Fair and Equal Opportunity for All Employees  
Baxter is commi tted to fair and equal opportunity for all employees, and recognizes that every individual's unique background and 
experiences contribute to a successful organization.  
Discrimination in hiring, promotion and all other employment decisions on the basis of r ace, color, religion, gender, national origin, 
age, disability, sexual orientation, veteran status or any other basis protected by federal, state or local laws is prohibited. Baxter's 
global operations comply with applicable laws and company business stand ards around the world. Employees are encouraged to 
raise any issues or concerns they might have through one of the channels outlined in the company's "Prohibition of Workplace 
Harassment" policy.  
The tables below illustrate Baxter's ethnic and gender diver sity at various levels in the company. 
Board and Executive Leadership Diversity  
 2007  2008  2009  2010  2011  
Ethnic (% non -white of total)  
Board of Directors  7.7%  7.7%  7.7%  7.7%  8.3%  
Executive Management*  5.8%  11.1&  11.1%  17.7%  11.8%  
Gender (% female of total)  
Board of Directors  15.4%  15.4%  15.4%  15.4%  16.7%  
Executive Management*  29.4%  27.8%  27.8%  17.6%  17.6%  
*The data set of Executive Management has been expanded to align with Executive Management listed in Baxter’s Annual Report on Form 10 -K filling with the 
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The figures have been restated for each year listed.  
Gender Diversity at Baxter (% Female Globally)  
 2007  2008  2009  2010  2011*  
Vice President and 
Above  17.7%  18.5%  19.2%  19.8%  21.5%  
Supervisor/Director  47.7%  48.1%  48.5%  47.8%  48.0%  
Non-Manager  56.4%  56.3%  55.8%  55.4%  54.1%  
Overall  52.7%  52.8%  52.5%  51.9%  51.3%  
*2009, 2010 and 2011 figures do not include Baxter Credit Union employees, which were approximate ly 0.1% of the total population.  
Supplier Diver sity 
Baxter works to develop mutually beneficial relationships with small and diverse suppliers. The company plans to continue expanding 
the diversity of its supplier base to reflect the demographics of Baxter's customers. See  Supplier  Diversity  for more information.  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/employees/global -inclusion -diversity.html  
© Copyright 201 2 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved. Awards  
Several leading organizations have recognized Baxter for its 2011 inclusion and diversity efforts:  
• Great Place to Work – Best Multinational Workplaces  in Europe  
• Great Place to Work in Austria – Great Places to Work Institute  
• Great Place to Work in France – Great Places to Work Institute  
• Great Place to Work in Ireland – Great Places to Work Institute  
• Great Place to Work in Portugal – Great Places to Work  Institute  
• J-Win Diversity Award – Japan  
• Top 50 Employers – Equal Opportunity Magazine  
Click  here for a comprehensive list.  
Employee Perspective 
	  
	  	  
	  
	  	  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/employees/work -life.html 
© Cop yright 201 2 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved. Work/Life  
Baxter believes that managers and employees share the responsibility to achieve a healthy blend of work, personal and family life.  
Baxter's global operations collaborate with external organizations, as appropriate, to develop and faci litate work/life programs. While 
some of the programs and resources listed below are available globally, all are available in the United States:  
• Adoption assistance and reimbursement;  
• Back -up/emergency child and elder care;  
• Dependent -care flexible spending  accounts; 
• Educational assistance;  
• Employee assistance and counseling programs;  
• Elder -care management services;  
• Lactation rooms;  
• Resource and community referrals to local service providers for family, financial and work issues;  
• Childcare support options;  
• Webinars on topics such as stress management and parenting (in English but offered worldwide); and  
• Alternate work arrangements.  
More than 25 percent of eligible employees (regular employees working at least 20 hours a week) used one or more of these program s 
in 2011. Baxter estimates conservatively that it realizes more than $1.60 of benefit for every dollar invested in work/life programs 
through reduced absenteeism and enhanced productivity. This estimate is based on employee surveys and program utilization  data to 
compare the value of estimated employee time saved to the total cost of the program.  
Alternate Work Arrangements  
Alternate work arrangements help to meet employees' needs for flexibility while continuing to achieve Baxter’s business goals. The 
company’s Alternate Work Arrangement Proposal Kit assists employees and managers in reviewing the steps required for proposing 
and reviewing requests for flexibility within the scope of an existing position.  
Determining the most appropriate alternate work arr angement typically takes the following into consideration:  
• The requirements of the job;  
• The employee's personal needs;  
• The needs and goals of the business overall; and  
• The employee's satisfactory work performance.  
Employee Perspective 
	  
	  
	  	  	  
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2011 -report/disease -prevention.html  
© Copyright 201 2 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved. Case Study: He alth Promotion and Disease Prevention in 
Minority Communities  
Baxter has several programs in place to reach minority communities about disease prevention and education.  
Baxter translates many of its tools and resources for patients in the U.S. into Spanish  and other languages. The company’s 
Hemophilia franchise also employs bilingual healthcare educators, a team dedicated to bridging language and cultural gaps through 
collaboration with Spanish speaking patients, caregivers, hemophilia treatment centers and  advocacy chapters. Provision of 
educational programs and materials in a patient’s preferred language that are also linguistically and culturally appropriate improves 
patients understanding and management of their health condition and minimizes health disp arities, often common in minority 
populations. Also, in clinical trials Baxter strives to include a diverse patient group as appropriate to represent the makeup and 
diversity of the larger population.  
Additionally, Baxter’s U.S. Government Affairs and Publ ic Policy (GAPP) group has a dedicated program for minority outreach 
designed for both elected officials as well as a network of community coalitions whose mission is health promotion and disease 
prevention in minority communities. In 2011, U.S. GAPP and B axter’s BioScience business collaborated with the National Association 
of Latino Elected Officials (NALEO) in the first public -private webinar to educate policy leaders on the company’s Facts First program 
– a Hispanic bilingual education program for hemop hilia patients and their families. Also through this partnership, NALEO’s board 
member, Councilwoman Michele Martinez spoke at the Hemophilia Bilingual Education program sponsored by the Children’s Hospital 
Los Angeles in October as part of a Hispanic Heri tage month celebration. Approximately 200 hemophilia patients and their families 
attended the event.  
The U.S. GAPP group, partnering with Baxter’s Medical Products business, also worked with members of the Congressional Black 
Caucus in four congressional d istricts with high African American representation to present “Know Your Treatment Options” to 
patients with end stage renal disease (ESRD) at community health fairs. These education seminars, attended by more than 750 
people, supported ESRD patients to choose the most appropriate therapy, including peritoneal dialysis (PD).  	  
 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/index.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Environment, Health and Safety  
 
 
Baxter's Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) organization manages and coordinates global programs and 
activities to reduce the company's environmental impacts, to create safe and healthy workplaces, and to 
advance prod uct stewardship across Baxter.  
This reporting year marks the first year of performance against the company's EHS 2015 goals , which are integrated into the  company's 
overarching sustainability priorities . 
EHS results from 2011 include the following:  
• Baxter reduced energy usage by 24% and associated greenhouse gas emissions  by 34% since 2005, both indexed to revenue. 
During that period, global energy management initiatives have achieved cumulative savings of approximately $39 million on an 
annualized basis.  
• The company reduced waste generation  11% compared to 2005, indexed to revenue. A product recall in the Europe, Middle East 
and Africa region resulted in approximately 9,400 metric tons of total waste in 2011, 13% of the 2011 t otal. Excluding this waste, 
Baxter would have achieved a 23% decrease indexed to revenue compared to 2005.  
• Baxter reduced water us age by 6% in absolute terms and 33% indexed to revenue since 2005.  
• Compared to 2010, Baxter improved its recordable case rate by 5% and its cases with days lost rate by 6%.   However, the 
company ʼs days lost rate rose by 20%. The increase was primarily due  to a small number of serious injuries  with extensive lost time.
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/index.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Internal Partnerships  
The EHS organization works with a wi de range of groups internally to enhance Baxter's EHS capabilities and performance, such  
as Corporate Communications, the Device Center of Excellence, executive and facility management, Human Resources, Purchasing  
and Supplier Management, and others. These  partnerships are crucial to helping Baxter achieve progress against its EHS -related 
sustainability priorities and overcome the related challenges it faces, such as waste reduction.  
See Internal  EHS Partnerships:  Collaborating  to Advance Sustainability . 
Scope of Baxter EHS Reporting 
The environmental data included in this report are based on 100 reporting locations, of which 53 are manufacturing, 18 ar e warehouse 
and nonmanufacturing, and 29 are administrative, clerical or other. Several of the reporting units comprise multiple locations that report 
as a single entity. For example, in 2011, 36 renal distribution facilities reported as a single entity, a s did Baxter's 61 North American 
plasma collection centers.  
The health and safety data included in this report are based on 260 reporting locations.1 
Regional breakdowns for EHS data are as follows: Asia Pacific; Latin America; Europe, Middle East and Afri ca; and North America.  
The EHS information reported covers 100% of Baxter's operations.  
EHS data are revised to reflect acquisitions, divestitures and plant closings as well as to incorporate any corrections necessary due to additional data verification ac tivities (such as EHS audits).  
1The scope of Baxter's health and safety data is different than the scope of the company's environmental data because Baxter's occupational injury and illness accounting 
includes smaller facilities that are not material to th e company's overall environmental performance or are reported as individual operations rather than as combined locations.	  
http:/ /sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/internal -partnerships.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Internal EHS Partnerships: 
Collaborating to Advance Sustainability  
 
Organization Partner  Activities  
Corporate Communications  • Plan, de velop, distribute and solicit feedback on Baxter's annual sustainability report  
• Coordinate sustainability -related communications with public, media and other external 
groups  
• Engage external stakeholders through speaking engagements, presentations, articles  and 
exhibitions  
• Coordinate Baxter’s response to external stakeholder sustainability -related surveys  
• Support the planning and execution of Baxter World Environmen t Week  
Cross -Functional Global 
Threat Management Team  • Help protect employee health and safety and business continuity in the event of a crisis  
Device Center of Excellence  • Collaborate with Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) on Product Sustainability Review  
assessments for all new Baxter medical devices  
• Implement a new global product stewardship database  
Regional Operat ions • Coordinate and man age EHS programs at Baxter facilities within the region  
• Incorporate green building design princip les and energy conservation and renewable/  
alternative energy technologies at facilities within the region  
• Address emerging product stew ardship requirements  
Executive Management  • Participate in executive -level Sustainability Steering Committee  
• Sponsor specific sustainability initiatives  
• Provide leadership and resources to employees, functions and groups to implement 
sustainability initiat ives  
Facilities Engineering 
Services/ Corporate Energy 
Management Group  • Help identify and support facilities in implementing cost -effective energy conservation , 
alternative power generation and renewable energy projects that reduce energy use, energy 
cost and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions  
• Promote water conservation  
• Incorporate green building design principles and technologies into  new, leased and renovated 
facilities  
Facility Management  • Strengthen safety culture and increase accountability for safety  
• Apply lean manufacturing principles to reduce resource use (with a current focus on plastics 
reduction and water conservation  as well as energy and waste)  
Finance  • Advise on financial and tax considerations related to advancing sustainability programs  
• Support required capital funding for sustainability projects with management support  	  
http:/ /sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/internal -partnerships.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Human Resources  • Implement BeWell@Baxter , the company's health and we llness program  
• Include sustainability and EHS questions in Baxter Culture Survey  to facilitate internal and 
external benchmarking  
• Promote employee knowledge of and e ngagement in sustainability  
Information Technology  • Support implementation and use of a new EHS web -based information management system 
to enhance Baxter's global EHS data management and reporting capabilities  
• Explore energy conservation and GHG reduction opportunities for information technology 
equipment  
Purchasing and Supplier 
Management  • Manage Baxter's Global Supplier Sustainability Program  
• Pursue more fuel-efficient sales fleet  vehicles and less energy/GHG -intensive means of 
product transport  to customers  
• Define and manage specific energy purchasing initiatives  
• Manage global logistics data to help Baxter understand and reduce the carbon footprint of its 
broader business activities and supply chain  
Research and Development 
(R&D)  • Educate R&D staff on sustainability issues to identify product development opportuni ties 
• Explore new business models and products  to serve potential customers at the base of the 
pyramid (BoP)*  
Sales and Marketing  • Inform customers about Baxter' s sustainability initiatives  
• Respond to customer inquiries related to sustainability  
• Identify opportunities to improve the environmental performance of certain products and 
develop green marketing strategies (such as for FLEXBUMIN ) 
*The term "base of the pyramid" refers to the approximately 4 billion people who each live on less than $1,500 annually and have limited access to the healthcare 
market.	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/ehs -program/policy -and-vision.html  
© Copyright 20 12 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  EHS Vision and Policy  
Environment, Health and Safety Vision 
To achieve a sustainable enterprise that creates stakeholder value by advancing superior environmental stewardship, the highest level 
of employee health and well -being, and an injury -free workplace . 
Environment, Health and Safety Policy 
Our Commitment to People and the Environment 
Baxter will be a global leader in environmental, health and safety (EHS) management.   
This is consistent with Baxter's business interests, ethics and shared values. Specif ically, we commit to the following: 
Sustainable Development  
 We will strive to conserve resources and minimize or eliminate adverse EHS effects and risks that may be associated with our products, 
services and operations.  
Employees 
 We will provide a safe a nd healthy workplace, striving to prevent injuries and illnesses, promoting healthy lifestyles and encouraging 
respect for the environment. We will ensure that our employees have the awareness, skills and knowledge to carry out this policy.  
Compliance  
 We will meet all applicable EHS laws and Baxter EHS requirements, including our own EHS management standards.  
Business Integration  
 We will integrate EHS considerations into our business activities.  
Customers  
 We will work with our customers to help them addr ess their EHS needs.  
Suppliers and Contractors   
We will work with our suppliers and contractors to enhance EHS performance.  
Community and Government  
 We will participate in community and government EHS initiatives.  
Baxter commits to continuous improvement in environment, health and safety performance. We will set goals, measure progress and 
communicate results.
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/ehs -program/program -governance.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Program Governance  
 
Baxter's environmental, health and safety (EHS) governance structure is designed to help the EHS organization realize its vision , 
achieve its goals  and help create long -term business value for Baxter. This includes contributing to the company ʼs sustainability 
strategies, programs and performance.  
EHS Organization and 
Reporting Structure  
Baxter's EHS organization, made up of more than 250 
full-time equivalent employees arou nd the world, 
manages the company ʼs EHS compliance 
requirements and risks. The organization works with a diverse group of internal and external stakeholders to address emerging EHS issues and related business 
challenges. The EHS organization, including bus iness 
group EHS support teams, has reported to global 
manufacturing since 2003. EHS Legal and Audit Services reports to the Ethics and Compliance function of Baxterʼ s Legal department to preserve the 
objectivity of legal advice and the global EHS auditing 
function.  
Baxter's vice president of EHS meets at least once a 
year with the Public Policy Committee of the company's board of directors to provide EHS performance updates, report on progress in related sustainability initiatives and discuss emerging EHS 
and broader sustainability trends.
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/enviro nment -health- safety/ehs -program/ehs -goals.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  EHS 2015 Goals  
 
Performance goals motivate continual improvement and demonstrate a company's commitment. Reporting progress against goals helps 
stakeholders assess performance.  
Goals -Setting and Business 
Integration  
Baxter's Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) 
organization conducts strategic planning to establish long-term EHS goals, assess resources required to 
achieve specific goals, and ensure critical business 
alignment. Baxter considers feedback from internal and 
external stakeholders in proposing and establishing its 
long-term goals. In manufacturing operations, EHS 
goals include annual safety, energy, waste and water reduction targets, which are included in many senior managers' and plant managers' annual performan ce 
objectives. Annual manager performance evaluations, including considerations related to compensation, are based partly upon business unit and facility 
performance in these EHS areas. In 2011, annual 
bonuses for manufacturing executives were tied to the company's performance in energy, waste, water and safety.  
The following interactive table summarizes performance against Baxter's EHS 2015 goals. Baxter recognizes the 
importance of aspirational targets and in 2011 launched 
its EHS 2015 goals, some of whic h align with the 
company's overarching sustainability priorities . 
See Prioritie s and Goals – Our Operations and 
Products  for progress against EHS -related 2015 
sustainability goals.  
(EHS 2015 Goals continued on following page)  
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/enviro nment -health- safety/ehs -program/ehs -goals.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/ehs -program/ehs -management -systems.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. Al l Rights Reserved.  EHS Management Systems  
 
Baxter's global Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Policy  and EHS requirements provide the foundation for the company's EHS 
program, establishing the minimum standards all facilities must meet and maintain. These requireme nts are designed to protect 
employees and company assets, minimize environmental impact, reduce company risk, and enhance Baxterʼ s reputation and EHS 
leadership. Baxter assesses all of its facilities using the same performance measurement system.  
Global Ma nagement Systems 
Baxter's EHS program follows a management -systems approach guided by its global EHS requirements. The program has evolved 
from using internally developed standards, prior to the availability of globally accepted standards, to applying exte rnal standards to 
develop and achieve EHS program objectives. Baxter currently applies the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001 
Environmental Management System Standard to systematically manage its environmental programs, and the Occu pational Health and 
Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001 to properly manage hazards that pose risk to employees. Successful ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 assessments verify that a facility's management system enables compliance with relevant regulations and company 
policy. Following a successful corporate EHS audit, an external auditing and certification body may recommend a facility for certification to these standards.  
As part of subscribing to ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001, Baxter uses management tools at the facility, business unit, regional and 
corporate levels to identify EHS aspects
1 and hazards, assess risks, set goals and prioritize risk -reduction initiatives. Facilities are 
required to review and update their EHS aspects, hazards and risk assessments as conditions change.  
ISO 14001 Certification  
Baxter generally requires third -party certification to ISO 14001 for the company ʼs manufacturing and research and development sites, 
and distribution sites with a capacity of more than 10,000 filled pallets or a w orkforce of 100 or more people. Exceptions may be granted 
based on company criteria. Facilities that do not meet these criteria still may choose to apply ISO 14001 standards and seek certification to improve their environmental performance. Baxter subjects  newly acquired facilities as relevant to a phase -in plan and 
evaluates those sites against the certification standards within two years of acquisition. As of year -end 2011, 66 Baxter locations 
(including all but one meeting the criteria outlined above) ha ve met the requirements of ISO 14001 and are covered by Baxter ʼs group 
certificate (see map).  
OHSAS 18001 Certification  
Baxter recommends but does not require facility certification to OHSAS 18001. Manufacturing, research and development, and distribution sites that have achieved third -party ISO 14001 certification generally also pursue third -party OHSAS 18001 certification, as 
it helps improve a facilityʼ s health and safety programs. Baxter incorporates OHSAS 18001 principles such as risk assessment, 
perso nnel competency, and system performance measurement/monitoring into corporate EHS audits even at facilities that do not 
pursue certification. Moreover, all OHSAS 18001 requirements have been incorporated into Baxter ʼs EHS requirements, and thus are 
included in routine oversight audits.  
As of year -end 2011, 50 Baxter locations (see map) were certified to OHSAS 18001.  
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/ehs -program/ehs -management -systems.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. Al l Rights Reserved.  Global Certifications  
In 1997, Baxter began to certify a group of facilities to ISO 14001, working with ERM Certification and Verification Serv ices, the 
company’s external auditing and certification body. Since then, Baxter’s group certification has evolved into a global certification 
including 66 facilities worldwide.2 In 2007, Baxter also established a group certificate for OHSAS 18001.3 
With its global certifications, Baxter has improved 
consistency in facility evaluation. Specifically, the group certificate requires Baxter to focus on areas of weakness across all facilities managed under the certificate. Additionally, the company can reduce e xternal audit frequency and costs.  
Green Building Certifications 
Employing green building principles saves energy and money, improves indoor air quality and brings additional benefits as well. According to the U.S. Green Building Council, LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) building rating system -certified buildings cost 8- 9 percent less to 
operate than non -certified buildings, consume 30 -
50 percent less energy, generate 30 percent less carbon dioxide equivalent emissions and reduce potable water use by 40 percent, while enhancing worker productivity by 7 percent.
4 
In 2010, Baxter approved a new EHS policy that 
requires new sites or those undergoing major 
modification to undergo a “green building” review. This checklist -driven process challenges Baxter’s 
construction teams and contractors to design and build low -impact facilities. The checklists include evaluating parameters such as 
HVAC, lighting, compressed air and variable speed drives.  
Baxter does not require certification to internationa l building rating standards such as the U.K.’s Building Research Establishment 
Environmental Assessment Method, known as BREEAM, LEED, or the Swiss certification for building energy consumption, Minergie.  
The following new Baxter -owned or leased buildings have achieved certification. Many other Baxter sites have incorporated energy -
efficient and environmental performance -enhancing characteristics, but have chosen not to pursue certification.  
1An environmental aspect is an element of an organization's activi ties, products or services that can interact with the environment, for example, air emissions, 
wastewater discharges, or energy use.  
2This covers the facilities described in the ISO 14001 Certification section above.  
3This covers the facilities described i n the OHSAS 18001 Certification section above.  
4According to www.usgbc.org 
 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/ehs -program/ehs -management -systems.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. Al l Rights Reserved.  Baxter Facilities with Green Building Certification  
Location  Building Type  Certification  Attributes  
Vienna, Austria  Lab/office  LEED Gold, 2011  The building effectively harnesses daylight, includes 
a solar -powered LED Baxter sign, uses well water for 
toilets and urinals, and has a vegetative roof.  
Mississauga, 
Quebec, Canada  Office  Canada LEED (applied)  More than 90% of employees at this location have 
direct lines of sight outdoor s. 100% of all new wood -
based materials are certified to Forest Stewardship 
Council (FSC) standards. Lighting controls enable 
90% of occupants to adjust for individual task 
needs.  
Lyon, France  Warehouse  BREEAM Good, 2011  Solar panels were installed to gen erate hot water. 
Rainwater is recovered for flushing toilets. A certified 
ecologist developed an ecology plan of the site and 
neighboring landscape. An outdoor noise level plan 
was completed.  
Rome, Italy  Business office  Italia LEED Silver, 2011  The first office in Europe to receive existing building 
certification to the Italia LEED “Silver” standard. The 
building’s innovative automation system controls the 
heating and cooling on each side of the structure as 
the solar load changes throughout the day.  
Rose rsberg, Sweden  Warehouse  EU GreenBuilding 2011  Additional roof and wall insulation combined with 
reused refrigeration heat reduced energy 
consumption by more than 25% compared to a 
standard warehouse.  
Zurich, Switzerland  European 
headquarters  Minergie Plu s, 2010  The building features water -based cooling and 
heating, rooftop solar panels, and uses nearly 80 
percent less energy than a typical office building of 
comparable size.  
Round Lake, Illinois, 
United States  Fitness center  LEED Gold (applied)  The fitne ss center has low -flow touchless faucets 
that use solar power to activate/run, thus reducing 
battery use. The site uses daylighting to conserve 
energy, and renewable energy credits offset 100% of 
consumption. All carpeting, flooring and finishes 
have low o r zero use of volatile organic compounds.  
 	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/ehs -program/facilities -list.html 
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Baxter Facilities with ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 
Certification  
 
 
 
 
Baxter Facilities with ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 Certification*, ** 
Region/Country/State or 
Province  City ISO 14001  OHSAS 18001  
Asia 
Austra lia Toongabbie  X X 
China  Guangzhou  X X 
China  Shanghai  X X 
China  Suzhou  X X 
China  Tianjin  X X 
India  Alathur  X  
India  Manesar  X  
India  Waluj  X  
Japan  Miyazaki  X  
New Zealand  Auckland  X X 
Philippines  Canlubang  X  
Singapore  Woodlands  X X 
Europe  
Austria Orth X X 
Austria  Vienna  X X 
Belgium  Lessines  X X 
Belgium  Lessines BDCE  X  
Belgium  Braine l’Alleud  X  
Czech Republic  Bohumil  X X 
France  Maurepas  X X 
Germany  Bielefeld  X X 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/ehs -program/facilities -list.html 
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Germany  Halle - Westfalen  X X 
Ireland  Castlebar/Swinford  X X 
Ireland  Dublin/Belfast  X  
Italy Grosotto  X X 
Italy Monselice  X X 
Italy Pisa X X 
Italy Rieti X X 
Italy Rome  X X 
Italy Sesto Fiorentino  X X 
Malta  Marsa  X X 
Poland  Lublin  X  
Portugal  Sintra  X X 
Spain  Sabiñánigo  X X 
Spain  Valencia/Las Palmas  X X 
Switzerland  Effretikon/Volketswil  X X 
Switzerland  Neuchâtel  X X 
Tunisia  Oued Ellil  X X 
Turkey  Istanbul  X X 
United Kingdom  Northampton  X X 
United Kingdom  Thetford  X X 
Latin America  
Brazil  São Paulo  X X 
Colombia  Cali X X 
Costa Rica  Cartago  X X 
Mexico  Atlacomu lco X X 
Mexico  Cuernavaca  X X 
Puerto Rico  Aibonito  X X 
Puerto Rico  Guayama  X  
Puerto Rico  Jayuya  X  
North America  
Canada, Ontario  Alliston  X X 	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/ehs -program/facilities -list.html 
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  United States, Arkansas  Mountain Home/Midway  X X 
United States, California  Hayward  X X 
United States, Ca lifornia  Irvine  X  
United States, California  Los Angeles/Van Nuys  X X 
United States, California  Thousand Oaks  X X 
United States, Illinois  Round Lake  X  
United States, Indiana  Bloomington  X X 
United States, Mississippi  Cleveland  X X 
United States, New  Jersey  New Providence  X  
United States, North Carolina  Marion  X X 
 
*Satellite facilities are listed according to the primary facility certificate holder. Baxter’s group certificate lists these facilities separately.  
**As of December 31, 2011.  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/ehs -program/ehs -audits.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  EHS Audi ts 
 
Baxter's environmental, health and safety (EHS) audit process verifies that the company ʼs facilities have EHS programs that achieve 
regulatory compliance and meet Baxterʼ s EHS requirements, objectives and goals. The company staffs its audit teams with 
professionals from the corporate EHS audit group and the EHS organization. ERM Certification and Verification Services conducts 
certification audits to the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001 Environmental Management System Standard and/or the Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001, as appropriate. When auditors identify gaps, the audit 
team works with facility management to ensure management fully understands the issues.  
Throughout the year, the EHS organizati on reviews the most common audit findings to systematically address identified issues, 
strengthen corporate policy when needed and prioritize company initiatives. The EHS organization ʼs functional teams then work to 
address areas with the most findings. In  2011 and 2010, the area of weakness most frequently identified by EHS audits involved 
improper handling of materials that may pose risk to employees and the environment.  
Baxter requires closure of regulatory nonconformities within 60 days of an audit ʼs conclusion, and all other nonconformities within 180 
days. Baxter ʼs EHS Audit Escalation Procedure helps inform senior management of any overdue nonconformities.  
In addition to facility audits, the corporate EHS group also included several specific regulator y and EHS risk areas in the 2011 audit 
schedule, such as the following European Union Directives: Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals 
(REACH), Restriction on Hazardous Substances (RoHS), Waste Electrical and Electronic E quipment (WEEE), Packaging, and 
Dangerous Goods. Baxter will continue to supplement its regular comprehensive audits with targeted regulatory risk audits as warranted.  
EHS Audit Program Attributes 
• Auditors are independent of facilities being audited.  
• Baxte r selects auditors based on technical expertise, EHS auditing experience and language skills.  
• New Baxter facilities are generally audited within two years of acquisition, although regional and business unit personnel are required to conduct a thorough revi ew of these operations within the first year. Short- notice audits (seven -day notification) are conducted, as 
appropriate.  
• Facilities found to operate below Baxter's standards are subject to increased audit frequency; for example, a repeat audit in six mont hs. 
• Audit scope includes regulatory compliance, compliance with Baxter's global EHS requirements and the effectiveness of EHS 
management systems.  
• The audit group prepares comprehensive audit checklists specific to the facility operations and applicable reg ulations.  
• Regions/business units conduct EHS reviews of facilities in years between corporate EHS audits, and facilities assess their own 
programs annually.  
• Baxter tracks all audit items until closed, with regions/business units confirming closure.  
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/ehs -program/ehs -audits.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Baxter selects facilities to audit based on risk profile, management system certification needs and other factors, such as management 
turnover and negative EHS performance trends.  
In 2011, Baxter conducted EHS audits of 25 out of 110 applicable facilities. Of th ese, nine were in Baxterʼ s Europe, Middle East and 
Africa region; seven were in North America; eight were in Asia Pacific; and one was in Latin America.
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/compliance/environmental.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Environmental Compliance  
 
Baxter assesses its performance in environmental compliance using several me asures:  
Notices of violation (NOV)  - A written notice from a governmental agency that identifies environmental noncompliance.  
Environmental compliance incidents - Releases that exceed permit limits (exceedances) and other spills or releases that must be 
reported to the government. Some of these exceedances may result in NOVs.  
Environmental fines - Fines related to environmental compliance issues.  
Baxter received seven environmental NOVs in 2011, two less than in 2010. Five were related to wastewater, compar ed to three in 
2010. One of the two remaining NOVs was related to the failure of a facility to conduct monthly inspections on two boilers. The final 
NOV was related to several environmental deficiencies noted during an agency inspection that followed a rel ease of a cleaning agent to 
the wastewater pretreatment facility. Separately, Baxter paid a $9,455 fine related to exceedances of an air permit that occurred in 2010. It also paid a $530 fine for a wastewater discharge in exceedance of a permit. The compan y paid no other environmental fines in 
2011.  
 
Environmental Notices of Violation and Fines  
 2007  2008  2009  2010  2011  
Wastewater NOVs  8 7 6 3 5 
Other Environmental NOVs  2 3 3 6 2 
Total Environmental NOVs  10 10 9 9 7 
Total Environmental Fines*  $4,591  $0 $800  $1,000  $9,985  
 
	  
*Fines paid during calendar year noted.  
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/compliance/environmental.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Baxter has a goal to decrease environmental compliance incidents 75% by 2015, compared to  2005. While Baxter has not made 
progress against this goal, it has reaffirmed its commitment to focus on reducing compliance incidents through 2015. Additionally, as in 
2010, nearly all of the incidents occurred at a few facilities, as noted in the table below. The company’s Lessines, Belgium, facility 
reported 35 wastewater exceedances. These were primarily temperature exceedances, in which the temperature varied within three degrees Celsius above the permit limit. In addition, Baxter’s Sabiñánigo, Spain,  facility reported 25 wastewater exceedances, primarily 
involving increased flow of treated wastewater. Both facilities continue to work with internal and external resources to address these issues.  
 
Environmental Compliance Incidents*   
 2007  2008  2009  2010 2011  
Air 1 1 4 2 0 
Land  1 1 1 1 1 
Drinking Water  0 0 0 0 0 
Wastewater  32 33 39 67 73 
Total  34 35 44 70 74 
*Subsequent to publishing Baxter ʼs 2009 Sustainability Report, the company received information from its facilities related to permit exceeda nces that warranted correction of 
2006 - 2009 data. Instead of a 29% reduction in environmental incidents from 2005 to 2009 the corrected data show a 7% increase during that period.  
As illustrated in the table above, most of Baxter ʼs environmental complian ce incidents have been related to wastewater. The graph 
(below) provides a breakdown of wastewater incidents by type in 2011.  
In 2011, approximately 85% of Baxterʼ s wastewater -
related compliance incidents involved discharges to 
surface waterways, such as rivers, streams or creeks. 
The remaining 15% occurred at facilities that discharge to regional or municipal wastewater treatment systems. 
At Lessines and Sabiñánigo, the regulatory agencies 
involved generally viewed Baxterʼ s responses to the 
exceedances as  sufficient and have not pursued 
enforcement activities. In the case of Castlebar, Ireland, Baxter is in ongoing communication with the agency to address its concerns. Baxter continues to 
apply internal and external legal and engineering 
resources to evalu ate compliance and technical 
solutions at high -risk facilities. See Water and 
Wastewater  for more detail.  
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/compliance/environmental.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
The following table s ummarizes environmental compliance incidents in 2011, by facility.  
Environmental Compliance Incidents by Facility in 2011  
Region/Country/State or Province  City Description  
Asia Pacific  
Australia  Toongabbie  Three wastewater  incidents 
related to flow  
Europe 
Belgium  Lessines  Thirty -five wastewater  incidents 
related to temperature and 
suspended/sedimenting solids  
Spain  Sabiñánigo  Twenty -five wastewater  
incidents related to flow  
Ireland  Castlebar  Four wastewater  incidents 
related to biochemical oxygen 
demand/chemical oxygen 
demand, pH, and an 
unauthorized discharge of a 
cleaning solution into the sewer  
North America  
Canada, Ontario  Alliston  One wastewater  incident 
related to biochemical oxygen 
demand  
United States, California  Los Angeles  One wastewater  incident 
related to pH and one land 
incident related to a failure of 
the industrial wastewater 
treatment system resulting in a 
release of unprocessed 
wastewater to a municipal drain  
United States, North Carolina  Marion  One wastewater  incident 
related to t oxicity  
United States, California  Hayward  Three wastewater  incidents 
related to 
suspended/sedimenting solids 
and biochemical oxygen 
demand/chemical oxygen 
demand  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/compliance/environmental.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Managing  Waste Liability  
To manage waste disposal appropriately and minimize the risk of fu ture liability, Baxter requires facilities to dispose of all hazardous or 
other regulated waste at disposal sites that Baxter has inspected or from which the company has otherwise received sufficient 
assurance of acceptable performance.  
Baxter applies the same waste site auditing standards worldwide, and trains internal auditors to evaluate disposal site risk consistently 
regardless of local customs and culture. In addition, Baxter works with CHWMEG, Inc., a non -profit organization that enables 
companies to  collectively purchase expert waste site audits.  
Baxter is involved as a potentially responsible party (PRP) for environmental clean -up costs at seven hazardous waste sites. Under the 
U.S. Superfund statute and many state laws, generators of hazardous wast e sent to a disposal or recycling site are liable for site 
cleanup if contaminants from that property later leak into the environment. The laws generally provide that a PRP may be held jointly 
and severally liable for the costs of investigating and remedia ting the site. The estimated potential exposure to Baxter for the seven 
sites mentioned above was approximately $7.5 million at year- end 2011, compared to $2.5 million at year -end 2010. The increase 
compared to 2010 is primarily due to one Superfund site w here the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency is requiring additional 
remediation strategies to be employed. Separate from the Superfund cases noted above, Baxter paid approximately $185,000 for 
remediation at the company ʼs Irvine, California, United State s, facility in 2011.	  
http://sustainability.b axter.com/environment- health- safety/compliance/health -and-safety.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Health and Safety Compliance 
 
In 2011, Baxter received two health and safety -related notices of violation (NOV):  
• One NOV issued to Baxter ʼs Toongabbie, Australia, facility for material handling deficiencies.  
• One NOV issued to Baxter ʼs Round Lake, Illinois, United States, facility for inventory documentation discrepancies related to its 
radiation license.  
Baxter continues to implement program improvements related to these matters.  
As noted in Baxter ʼs 2010 Sustainability Report, in Janu ary 2011, three workers were involved in an accident in which one died and the 
other two were injured at the company ʼs Los Angeles, California, United States, facility. The incident involved entry into a tank used in 
the plasma fractionation production pro cess. Although agency investigations are ongoing, in 2011 the California Occupational Safety 
and Health Administration proposed citing Baxter with serious and willful civil violations and penalties related to this matter. Baxter is 
appealing the citations and continues to cooperate with the agency. Baxter continues to reinforce its safety policies and procedures, 
particularly related to confined space. The company also is retraining workers involved in confined space entry, evaluating emergency response tra ining and conducting additional risk assessments in other parts of the company. The plant and the company will continue to 
evaluate and enhance procedures and employee training to reduce the likelihood of future incidents.  
 2007  2008  2009  2010  2011  
Citati ons Settled  2 2 6 3 2 
Fines Paid  
(in dollars)  0 $45,000*  $1,733  $945  $0 
*The data reported includes a fine of $30,000 that Baxter paid in connection with a U.S. Federal Aviation Administration/hazardous materials transportation 
matter at its Tampa, Flori da, United States, facility.  
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/environmental -performance/performance -at-a-glance.html  
© Copyr ight 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Environmental Performance At -a-Glance  
 
In 2011, Baxter continued working toward its 2015 
sustainability goals, and also performed for the first time 
against its new  environmental,  health and safety  (EHS) 
goals  for 2015 . As the graph below indicates, Baxter is on-
target to meet or exceed its 2015 energy usage, greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions and water usage goals. Howeve r, the 
company lost significant ground in 2011 toward its total waste -
reduction goal due to a product recall in Europe. Baxter 
considers this performance to be unique to this reporting year 
and believes it will deliver stronger results in 2012 due to its 
waste reduction program and initiatives. Baxter failed to make 
progress toward its environmental incidents -reduction goal due 
to wastewater exceedances at two locations in Europe.  
Energy Usage 
Baxter continued to make solid progress toward its 2015 goal 
to reduce energy usage by 30% indexed to revenue, compared 
to 2005, achieving a 24% decrease through 2011. Energy 
usage indexed to revenue decreased by 5% in 2011 compared 
to 2010. Baxter maintains an aggressive energy -management 
program, grounded in "Lean" energy standards that 
manufacturing facilities companywide continue to implement.  
Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
Baxter decreased GHG emissions by 34% indexed to revenue through 2011, compared to 2005, on its way to achieving its goal 
of a 45% reduction by 2015. The company will drive continual performance improvement through ongoing programs and 
projects in energy conservation, installing cogeneration systems at select locations, sourcing renewable energy and purchasing 
emissions credits and offsets.  
Total Waste  
During 2011, Baxter's operations generated 70,700 metric tons of total waste, up from 56,100 metric tons in 2005. This represents a 
26% increase in absolute terms and an 11% decrease indexed to revenue. The major contributing factor was a product recall in  Europe 
that resulted in approximately 9,400 metric tons of waste in 2011, about 13% of the global total. Excluding the waste associated with 
this one -time event, the absolute increase from 2005 would have been 9%, with a 23% decrease indexed to revenue. D ue to renewed 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/environmental -performance/performance -at-a-glance.html  
© Copyr ight 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  efforts to reduce plastics waste as well as other facility- based initiatives, Baxter still expects to meet its 2015 goal to reduce total waste 
by 30%, indexed to revenue, compared to 2005.  
Water Usage  
Baxter has nearly achieved its 2015 goal to reduce water usage by 35% indexed to revenue, compared to 2005, realizing a 33% 
decrease through 2011. The company attributes this to senior management focus on and accountability for reducing facility 
water usage, insights gained by conducting water ba lances and creating value stream maps, and heightened attention on water 
during energy assessments. Challenges moving forward include a diminished number of viable water -saving projects (as many 
have been implemented during the past several years) and the relatively low rate of financial return for those initiatives.  
Environmental Incidents  
Baxter continued to experience an increase in environmental compliance incidents in 2011, totaling 74. As a result, the company 
is further from achieving its 2015 goal t o reduce environmental compliance incidents by 75%, compared to 2005. Most of the 
incidents in 2011 occurred at two facilities, Lessines, Belgium, and Sabiñanigo, Spain, that experienced ongoing compliance 
challenges related to slightly elevated wastewater discharge readings for temperature and flow, respectively. In addition to 
initiating comprehensive corrective actions to address the issues at these two sites, the company used these incidents to 
increase awareness and emphasis on environmental compliance  during the year.  
Environmental Financial Statement  
The following table describes environmental income, savings and cost avoidance realized in 2011 from activities completed 
during the year, along with environmental program costs. For the first time since Baxter began producing the EFS, the company 
did not realize net positive environmental savings or cost avoidance in 2011. Costs related to waste management were the main 
contributing factor.  
 
 
Environmental Income, Savings and Cost Avoidance, 2011 (Dollar s in Millions)   
Energy Use  $1.2 
Total Waste Generation  (9.4) 
Recycling Income  5.1 
Water Use  (0.2) 
Total Environmental Income, Savings and Cost Avoidance  $(3.3)  
 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/environmental -performance/performance -at-a-glance.html  
© Copyr ight 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Environmental Program Costs, 2010 (Dollars in Millions)   
Basic Program Costs  $21.5  
Reme diation. Waste and Other Response Costs  10.0 
Total Environmental Program Costs  $31.5  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/environmental -performance/air -emissions.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Air Emissions  
 
Due to an aggressive air toxics reduction program initiated in 1988, Baxter decreased toxic air emissions from its operations by more 
than 98% from 198 8 through 2005. The company continues to monitor its air emissions and supports facility -led initiatives in this area. 
However, due to this progress, Baxter focuses its environmental programs and goals on other  issues . 
Baxter's toxic air emissions increased to approximately 26.3 metric tons in 2011, a 4 % rise in absolute terms from 2010, and essentially flat when indexed to revenue. Emissions of Di -2-ethylhexyl phthalate (DEHP) decreased from 14.0 to 12.7 metric tons, 
primarily due to reduced production of PVC sheeting at one major facility. Methanol emissions associated with plasma processing increased from 3.9 to 5.4 metric tons, mostly due to product ion increases at one location. Baxter will continue to evaluate and install 
additional emission control technologies where necessary and feasible to further reduce air emissions associated with certain manufacturing activities.  
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/environmental -performance/air -emissions.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Baxter's calculated combine d nitrogen oxide (NOx) and sulfur oxide (SOx) emissions related to onsite fuel usage decreased by 2% in 
absolute terms and 8% indexed to revenue from 2010 to 2011. Baxter has reduced NOx and SOx emissions through energy 
conservation companywide and a trans ition from heavy fuel oils to lighter diesel fuels and natural gas at some locations. For example, 
in 2011, the companyʼ s Lessines, Belgium, facility began operation of a co -generation system and switched from fuel oil to natural gas. 
Also, Baxter ʼs Alathu r, India, facility switched from fuel oil to biomass fuels ( see case  study ). 
About 50% of Baxter ʼs NOx emissions occur within North America. This is due to relatively high use of natural gas at most of the 
company ʼs North American facilities, along with the use of biomass for steam production at one of its largest manufacturing facilities. 
Nearly 88% of Baxter ʼs SOx emissions are from facilities out side of North America, due to higher use of furnace fuel oils at these 
locations.  
 
 
 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/environmental -performance/ecoefficiency -raw-materials -use.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Biodiversity  
 
 
According to the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), the importance of biological diversity to human society is hard to 
overstate1. An estimated  40 percent of the global economy relies on products that are grown or derived from nature or processes that 
mimic natural systems. The effective use of biodiversity at all levels – genes, species and ecosystems – is therefore a precondition for 
sustainabl e development. However, human activities the world over are causing the progressive loss of species of plants and animals 
at a rate far higher than the natural background rate of extinction.  
Baxter and Biodiversity 
While biodiversity is not a focus of Baxt erʼs nine  sustainability  priorities , it is an element of  Baxter's  Bioethics Policy : "Baxter 
recognizes that protecting the environment and maintaining the biological diversity of our planet is of vital importance to human life." By 
endorsing the  Ceres  Principles , Baxter has committed to preservation of the biosphere. Principle 1 states "we will safeguard all 
habitats affected by our operations and will protect open spaces and wilderness, while preserving biodiversity."  
Baxter owns or leases approximately 910 hectares of land, a bout one -quarter of which is impermeable surface. Although 24 of Baxter ʼs 
58 manufacturing and research and development facilities are located in 12 of the world's biodiversity "hot spots"2 as designated by 
Conservation International, the company ʼs operati ons typically are located in light industrial areas in metropolitan regions. While Baxter 
does not require its facilities to report on activities to protect biodiversity, sites are required to understand their impact on the environment, and incorporate conservation of biodiversity into their environmental management systems where appropriate.  
During the company ʼs annual signature environmental awareness week,
 Baxter  World  Environment  Week , facilities globally often 
conduct biodiversity and environmental preservation activities. During 2011, facilities held 14 local cleanups, two restoration initiatives, one biodiversity education initiative, five environmental educat ion campaigns and 11 tree plantings.  
In 2011 the Center for Health and the Global Environment invited Baxter to join its Corporate Council, a group of six companies 
supporting the center. Founded in 1996 by physicians of Harvard Medical School, in Boston, Massachusetts, United States, the center 
studies and promotes a wider acceptance of the human health consequences of global environmental change. The center's Biodiversity 
and Human Health Program informs policymakers and educates the public about the impo rtance of preserving biodiversity through the 
lens of human health.  
Examples of Efforts Globally  
Many Baxter facilities worldwide participate in habitat restoration activities.  
Tree Planting 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/environmental -performance/ecoefficiency -raw-materials -use.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Planting trees provides benefits such as decreasing soil erosion,  reducing surface water runoff, and increasing carbon sequestration. 
Baxter sites have taken part in tree -planting initiatives for many years. During 2011:  
• The Baxter Alliston, Canada, facility planted 500 trees.  
• Baxter Costa Rica planted 250 trees in an i ndustrial park that is part of the Biological Corridor (COBRI -SURAC), as well as 70 trees 
in Cartago. 
• As part of Baxter ʼs 2011 World Environment Week, employees in Austria, Costa Rica, India, Mexico, Philippines, Spain, Thailand 
and the U.K. took part in e cological restoration activities, including tree planting.  
Prairie Restoration 
In the Midwestern United States, only 1 percent of the original tallgrass prairie remains. To help counteract this, in 2011 a group of 
employees from Baxterʼ s Round Lake, Vernon  Hills and Deerfield, Illinois, United States, facilities planted more than 1,700 prairie plants 
in a conservancy area on a former farm. Seeding of the rest of the farm will restore plant diversity and help return the land to its original state.  
During the  year, another group of Round Lake, Illinois, employees helped renovate an elementary schoolʼs nature center, a collection of 
garden beds filled with a mix of native Illinois plants. Baxter volunteers returned several times to help weed and till existing o vergrown 
plant beds, and develop a new community garden plot.  
Environmentally Preferable Purchasing 
In 2011, under its Environmentally Preferable Purchasing Policy, Baxter purchased Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) -certified paper 
for use in printers and copiers at its Northern Illinois sites, including the company ʼs Deerfield, Illinois, United States, headquarters, as 
well as other U.S. sites. FSC -certified paper supports conservation, biodiversity, and responsible management of forests that are used 
to produce paper. Baxterʼ s Northern Illinois sites purchased 39 metric tons of FSC -certified paper in 2011.  
Chicago Botanic Garden 
Baxter has supported the Chicago Botanic Garden in Glencoe, Illinois, United States, for more than 25 years. The mission of the 15 6-
hectare garden, visited by about 800,000 people each year, is to promote the understanding and conservation of plants and the natural world.  
Baxter contributed financially to the new Chicago Botanic Garden Plant Science Center that opened in 2009. The 3, 500-square -meter 
center provides laboratories and teaching facilities for more than 200 Ph.D. scientists, land managers, students and interns, and is 
home to a unique doctoral program in plant biology and conservation in conjunction with Northwestern Unive rsity.  
Baxter ʼs ongoing financial support helps the Garden ʼs scientists, researchers and students make vital discoveries about plant survival, 
habitat destruction, invasive species and restoration. Together with Botanic Gardens Conservation International a nd several other 
gardens, in 2011 the Chicago Botanic Garden formed the Ecological Restoration Alliance of Botanic Gardens with the goal of restoring 
100 significant natural sites on six continents during the next 20 years.  
Additionally, Baxter sponsors th e Garden ʼs annual World Environment Day in June, which showcases the United Nations -designated 	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/environmental -performance/ecoefficiency -raw-materials -use.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  World Environment Day through community education on environmental topics. Approximately 5,300 visitors attended the garden 
during this event in 2011.  
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction  
Baxter ʼs continued efforts to reduce  energy usage and associated  greenhouse gas emissions  from its operations and broader 
activities also help protect biodiversity. According to E.O. Wilson, American biologist, researcher, natu ralist and longtime professor at 
Harvard University, climate change alone may cause one -quarter of the earth's animal and plant species to become extinct or destined 
for extinction by 2050.3 
1.UNEP, Secretariat of the Convention on Biodiversity: http://www.unep.org/Themes/Biodiversity/About/index.asp  
2.A Hot Spot is an ecosystem that is biologically rich and endangered. Baxter has manufacturing or research and development sites in the fo llowing Conservation 
International Hot Spots: 3.Atlantic Forest of Brazil, California Floristic Province, Caribbean Islands, Chilean Winter Rainfall Forest, Indo -Burma, Japan, 
Mediterranean Basin, Mesoamerica, New Zealand, Philippines, Sundaland and Tropic al Andes.  
3.E.O. Wilson, "The Future of Life."	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/environmental -performance/ecoefficiency -raw-materials -use.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Eco-Efficiency/ Raw Materials  
 
Efficient raw materials use has environmental and economic benefits. Baxter tracks the raw materials it uses in manufacturing, such as 
plastic resins, corrugated materials and c hemicals. In 2011, the company enhanced its data -collection process for these items and 
gathered more comprehensive data from across its regions. As a result, data from past years are no longer comparable and the 
company only presents data from 2011 in the  table below.  
Major Materials Purchased for Manufacturing (Metric Tons)  
Material*,**  2011  
Plastics/Resins  82,500  
Corrugated Materials  53,300  
Dextrose  21,600  
Sodium Chloride (salt)  17,700  
Amino Acids  1,400  
Pharmaceuticals (drugs)  51 
*Plastics/resins  are used to make film for bags or accessory parts such as port tubes and over pouches and for solution sets in Baxter's Renal products. 
Corrugated materials are widely used in the manufacture of corrugated boxes and shipping containers used to package Bax ter products. Dextrose is a simple 
sugar used to make solutions, which include Baxter's nutrition and intravenous (IV) products. Sodium chloride (salt) is mixed with other liquids for Baxter's 
parenteral solutions used for injection. Amino acids have many functions in metabolism, and act as the building blocks of proteins. At Baxter their application 
includes biotherapeutics, regenerative medicines and vaccines. Pharmaceuticals (drugs) are chemical substances intended for use in the medical diagnosis, 
cure,  treatment or prevention of disease. 
**Does not include raw materials usage from Baxter’s BioScience business.  
As the cost of many raw materials continues to rise, Baxter is implementing more aggressive materials- efficiency and waste -reduction 
efforts. For  more information about how Baxter selects raw materials used in products, see  Materials  Use. Historically, the company has 
focused on scrap reduction and reuse thro ugh its Value Improvement Program. This initiative encourages manufacturing facilities to 
identify and implement cost -savings projects, often related to enhancing production efficiencies. The high cost of plastics increases 
Baxter's incentive to use it as efficiently as possible. In 2010, Baxter commenced a focused effort to reduce plastics scrap, its largest 
waste stream. See Waste for more details.  
Many plastic processing sites regrind and reuse pre -consumer plastic scrap to save money and materials. Whil e many Baxter container 
systems incorporate as much as 35% reground plastic from the manufacturing process, regulatory requirements prohibit Baxter from 
using post -consumer plastics in manufacturing. If plastic cannot be reused on -site, Baxter evaluates it  for possible reuse at other 
locations. If that is not feasible, the company sends it  off-site for recycling.  
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/environmental -performance/ecoefficiency -raw-materials -use.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Packaging 
As illustrated in the table above, corrugated materials used for product packaging represents one of Baxter's main uses of materials. 
The company continues to implement packaging reduction projects, with an emphasis on high -volume product lines. The type of 
materials used is another area of focus. The vast majority of the corrugated material Baxter uses contains 30 -75% post -industrial and/or 
post-consumer recycled content.  
Baxter continues to implement and track packaging reduction projects and communicates best  practices across the organization. 
See Packaging for details about the company's initiatives and progress against its packaging reduction goal.	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/environmental -performance/energy.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved. Energy  
 
Managing e nergy use effectively enhances business efficiency 
and conserves natural resources. Reducing fossil fuel 
combustion improves air quality, decreases fine particulates 
that contribute to adverse health effects, and reduces the 
generation of greenhouse  gas (GHG) emissions, which 
contribute to global warming and resulting climate change. 
Limiting the use of non -renewable ener gy sources also helps 
preserve their availability for future generations.  
Performance  
While energy conservation benefits the environment, it also 
makes good business sense for Baxter, since energy is among the companyʼ s most significant manufacturing costs . Since 
2005, while Baxter increased sales 41% through 2011, the company held absolute energy usage from operations to an approximate 7% increase. However, due to sharply increasing 
energy prices, Baxterʼ s corresponding energy costs rose 47% 
during that pe riod, to $163 million in 2011. This underscores 
the importance of the companyʼ s ongoing energy conservation 
efforts, which, since 2005, have achieved cumulative savings 
of approximately $39 million on an annualized basis.  
Baxter is committed to reducing en ergy usage from operations 
by 30% indexed to revenue, compared to 2005. This includes the energy used by Baxter -managed and Baxter -operated 
facilities and excludes company -operated vehicles. From 2005 
to 2011, energy consumption for Baxter operations were 
reduced by 24% indexed to revenue, on- track to meet the companyʼ s 2015 goal.  
Compared to 2010, elevated manufacturing production in 2011 increased energy usage across all Baxter regions except Latin America. 
Additionally, the installation and commissionin g of a natural gas -fired combined heat and power system (co -generation) at Baxter's 
Lessines, Belgium, facility in October 2011 contributed to higher energy consumption in the Europe, Middle East and Africa region. 
Cogeneration systems increase a facility' s overall energy footprint since losses previously attributed to the generating utility are instead 
accounted for by the facility. However, the overall efficiency of energy utilization improves since the facility can capture and use the 
waste heat from ele ctricity generation.  
 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/environmental -performance/energy.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved. The following graphs illustrate the breakdown of electricity and steam consumption for Baxter manufacturing facilities. The company 
considers these data in targeting new energy -saving technologies, determining where to focus energy b alances and setting 
requirements in the Lean energy program. See Energy Conservation Initiatives below for examples of projects to enhance efficiency in 
some of these areas.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baxter ʼs energy program incorporates three main components: energy bala nces; the Lean energy program; and performance tracking 
and reporting.  
Energy Balances 
Energy balances serve as the foundation of Baxter ʼs energy program. They help identify new technologies for facilities to implement 
and help identify best practices to s hare among facilities.  
An energy balance is an in -depth assessment of energy consumption at the site level. A team of qualified experts assesses most of 
Baxter ʼs manufacturing sites every three to four years to determine how energy is consumed in each faci lity. The team spends 
approximately five days at each location evaluating the energy -consuming systems and reviewing the electricity and fuel invoices to 
identify opportunities to improve efficiency and reduce GHG emissions and cost.  
To encourage the imple mentation of energy conservation projects identified by energy balances, which often involves purchasing new 
equipment or upgrading current equipment, Baxter has reduced its minimum required internal rate of return by approximately 5% 
compared to other cap ital projects.  
In 2011, Baxter performed energy balances at the following 13 facilities: Guangzhou, Shanghai and Suzhou, China; Cartago, Costa Rica; Bohumil, Czech Republic; Rieti, Italy; Miyazaki, Japan; Marsa, Malta; Canlubang, Philippines; Jayuya, Puert o Rico; Istanbul, 
Turkey; Hayward, California, and Round Lake, Illinois, United States.  
As a result of energy balances, Baxter facilities worldwide are evaluating or implementing approximately 350 energy conservation 
projects that have potential savings of $9.3 million.  
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/environmental -performance/energy.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved. Lean Energy Program  
In 2007, Baxter launched a Lean Energy Program for the companyʼ s principal manufacturing facilities. The program includes four sets 
of Lean energy standards – Pre- requisite, Bronze, Silver and Gold. Each category defines 25 to 30 requirements a facilityʼ s energy 
program must meet to qualify for that level, focused on the energy efficiency of facility processes and systems. In 2011, Baxter 
implemented tightened efficiency standards and added additional requirements focused on water to the Lean energy program. These 
changes shifted the baseline requirements. See the table below for progress since 2007.  
Lean Energy Program Performance  
[Percent of Program Criteria Implemented Across All Manufacturing Facilities, at Year -end] 
 2007 2008  2009  2010  Start 2011*  Year End 
2011*  
Pre-requisite  93%  98%  100%  100%  84%  98%  
Bronze   85%  94%  98%  80%  95%  
Silver    76%  89%  76%  89%  
Gold     54%  55%  60%  
*Changes in 2011 performance compared to 2010 are in part due to additional requirements add ed in 2011.  
Baxter has seen a clear correlation between a site ʼs Lean energy program level and its energy reduction performance.  
Performance Tracking and Reporting 
Baxter ʼs corporate energy management group produces and distributes a quarterly report to th e company ʼs senior management, plant 
managers and global energy managers. The report is a mechanism to evaluate performance and enables the program to act when 
performance is lagging. It focuses on energy balances and the Lean energy program, emphasizing p rogress toward Baxterʼ s internal 
target of a 3 percent reduction in energy per unit of production.  
Energy Conservation Initiatives  
Since 2005, Baxter ʼs global energy management initiatives have achieved cumulative savings of approximately $39 million on an  
annualized basis. Energy efficiency gains achieved in 2011 are due to systematic implementation of energy conservation projects. 
Examples of projects implemented in 2011 include the following:  
• Australia – Baxterʼ s facility in Toongabbie, Australia, upgrad ed its compressed air system to improve reliability, uptime, system 
flexibility and reduce operating costs. The new system saves approximately 1,204,000 kWh in electricity and $40,000 in energy 
costs.  
• Malta – Baxterʼ s facility in Marsa, Malta, installed a 165 kW geothermal system for use from May through October. The geothermal 
system offsets the effects of high humidity on cooling towers by providing additional cooling from the ground. On an annual basis, 
the system will save a projected 84,000 kWh in elec tricity, more than $18,000 in energy costs, and 71 metric tons of carbon dioxide 
equivalent (CO 2e) emissions.  
• Spain – Baxterʼ s facility in Sabiñánigo, Spain, upgraded its chilled water system to improve cooling and enhance system efficiency. 	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/environmental -performance/energy.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved. The new system  includes a variable flow feature that optimizes chiller performance while enabling the site to utilize free cooling on 
temperate days. The upgrade reduced electricity use by 743,000 kWh annually, saving nearly $95,000 and decreasing GHG 
emissions by appro ximately 220 metric tons CO 2e. 
Global Energy Management Activities  
Baxter senior management sponsors the company's global energy management activities, which are part of an integrated energy -
conservation, cost -reduction and GHG emissions reduction program.  The following groups participate in this program as noted:  
Group  Energy Management Activities  
Facilities Engineering 
Services  • Chairs Baxter’s Energy Steering Committee, composed of corporate, regional and facility 
representatives  
• Develops energy -conserva tion and energy cost -reduction strategies  
• Manages global energy -conservation programs, conducts energy balances and drives the Lean 
energy program  
• Tracks and reports facility energy usage, costs and progress against goals each quarter  
• Monitors global energ y availability and price trends  
• Coordinates companywide technical resources, Web resources, regional training and Baxter’s 
Global Energy Conference  
Environment, Health and 
Safety  • Represented on Baxter’s Energy Steering Committee  
• Ensures environmental fact ors are considered in energy management strategies, initiatives, GHG -
reduction efforts and company policies  
• Manages Baxter’s global climate change response strategies and GHG -reduction activities  
• Tracks and reports company GHG emissions  
• Monitors Baxter’s p articipation in the EU Emissions Trading Scheme  
Corporate Services and 
Administration  • Seeks cost -competitive energy sources, in partnership with Baxter's Purchasing and Supplier 
Management organization  
• Manages natural gas purchasing for Baxter locations i n the United States  
• Purchases renewable energy for specific Baxter facilities and products  
• Manages “carbon -neutral” status of corporate headquarters  
Purchasing and Supplier 
Management 
Organization  • Manages program to work with major Baxter suppliers to imp rove energy efficiency, reduce GHG 
emissions and enhance other supplier “green” initiatives  
• Provides assistance in energy purchasing  
• Manages energy efficiency of Baxter -operated vehicles, including car sales fleet and truck 
distribution fleet  
• Champions gre en building technologies and renewable energy projects for supply chain distribution 
locations  
Facility Energy Managers  • Implement facility -level energy -conservation, cost -reduction and GHG -reduction strategies  
• Apply available Baxter technical resources an d best practices, participate in regional training and 
attend company -sponsored Global Energy Conferences  
• Identify and implement energy -conservation projects  
• Evaluate viable renewable energy options  
• Set annual facility energy usage and cost -reduction goals  
• Manage facility energy performance  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/environmental -performance/energy- usage- and-ghg- emissions.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Baxter Energy Usage and Greenhouse Gas Emissions  
 
 
 
The following table (click on image to download PDF) describes Baxter's energy usage, energy costs and greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions 2008 -2010.  
Data are grouped by three main categories:  Upstream Scope 3 Emissions, Baxter Operations (Emissions) and Downstream  
Scope 3 Emissions  
For additional information please refer to the GHG Emissions Across the Value Chain  and GHG Emissions from Operati ons pages.
	  
http:/ /sustainability.baxter.com/documents/baxter -energy -usage- and-ghg- emissions -2011.pdf  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
 
 
 
     
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
1
 Baxter used the World Resources Institute and World Business Council for Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol (www.ghgprotocol.org) to 
calculate emissions data from fossil fuel use. The company used country elect ricity emission factors published by the International Energy Agency and the U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) E- Grid U.S. regional electricity emission factors to calculate greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions related to electricity 
consumption.  
2 An independent entity engaged by the Chicago Climate Exchange (CCX) verified Baxter’s 2009 and 2010 direct GHG emissions from operations in Canada, 
Mexico, Puerto Rico and the United States. Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. verified Baxter’s 2010 and 2011 Sc ope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions.  
3 Baxter estimated the GHG emissions of its first -tier and sub -tier suppliers (purchased goods and services and upstream transportation and distribution) for 
2009- 2011 using modeling performed for Baxter’s supply chain in 2 009 and 2010 by an independent UK- based firm. These estimates are based on data from 
other companies in the healthcare sector and representative suppliers as well as publicly reported Baxter financial and environmental data available for the two 
years (2008 and 2009) prior to the modeling.  
4 Estimated 2009 -2011 emissions based in part upon 2009 -2011 capital expenditures reported in Baxter’s 2011 Annual Report.  
5 Estimated emissions for wastewater, and waste recycling and disposal based in part upon guidance  provided by the Massachusetts Department of 
Environmental Protection and the U.S. EPA Solid Waste Management and Greenhouse Gas Emissions. 
	  
http:/ /sustainability.baxter.com/documents/baxter -energy -usage- and-ghg- emissions -2011.pdf  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  6 Baxter estimated GHG emissions associated with employee use of commercial airlines, rental cars and hotel stays is  based in part on data provided by 
company travel agencies and travel providers, which calculated those data using the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Airline companies used by Baxter provided data 
regarding distances flown and GHG emissions for 2009, 2010. Infor mation for 2011 was extrapolated from prior years. The GHG Protocol was used to calculate 
2009 to 2011 emissions from rental cars based on reported fuel usage in 2009 and 2010 and extrapolated for 2011. Based upon the use of airlines, rental cars 
and sales  growth information, GHG emissions associated with Baxter hotel stays was evaluated based upon available information and estimated for 2009 
through 2011. 
7 Baxter used the Greenhouse Gas Protocol to estimate GHG emissions related to employee commuting. The company based these estimates on an assessment 
of employee population by region, estimated average distances traveled to work, estimated mode of transpiration, and assumptions regarding the blend of fuel 
used (gasoline and diesel).  
8 Emissions associated with upstream leased assets estimated at 3% of Baxter’s net emissions for Operations.  
9 Baxter used the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition to determine GHG emissions associated with 
using biomass fuel, p rincipally wood/ wood waste, as a boiler fuel at two Baxter locations. These emissions were calculated as 156,000, 162,000 and 172,000 
metric tons CO2e in 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively.  
10 Includes the purchase of electricity generated from 100 percent  certified renewable electricity (Austria, Spain, Switzerland, United Kingdom, and United 
States), the purchase of carbon credits from the Chicago Climate Exchange (United States) and retired in 2009, 2010 and 2011, and carbon sequestration related 
to refo restation projects in Canada.  
11 Baxter used the Greenhouse Gas Protocol to estimate GHG emissions associated with reported fuel usage by company- managed sales and distribution fleet 
vehicles, and other vehicles. The company estimated fuel usage for intern ational sales and distribution vehicles based on regional sales information.  
12
 Refrigerant emissions represent total reported CFC, HCFC and HFC refrigerant losses by each Baxter location. Baxter calculated associated GHG emissions 
using average emissions factors for each refrigerant family.  
13
 In 2009, Baxter analyzed product shipments to customers on a global basis by truck, railroad, air (intra and inter -regional), ocean (intra - and inter -regional) and 
barge (principally in Europe). Based upon the estima ted weight shipped, distance and mode, Baxter used the Greenhouse Gas Protocol to calculate associated 
GHG emissions. In 2010 and 2011 Baxter used a third party to evaluate product shipment emissions. Based upon these activities over the past three years, 
these emissions were estimated.  
14 Baxter estimated the emissions associated with the use and final disposition of products based upon available global warming potential information available 
for certain types of products and emissions for certain other pr oducts were estimated.  
15 2009- 2011 Emissions for this Scope 3 Category were estimated based upon certain financial information presented in Baxter’s 2011 Annual Report and 
Baxter’s magnitude and annual change of net emissions for operations.  
16 Totals do not include GHG emissions from Baxter -owned wood -fired boiler. See footnote 9 above for detail.	  
http:/ /sustainability.baxter.com/documents/baxter -energy -usage- and-ghg- emissions -2011.pdf  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  GHG Emissions across the Value Chain   
Global warming and resulting climate change is one of the most pressing sustainability challenges facing the world today.  Although 
many natural forces have contributed, it is clear that since the beginning of the industrial revolution around 1750, humans have caused 
the release of additional greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions into the atmosphere. The impacts of climate change ar e felt through 
extreme weather events such as flooding, droughts and intense storms. These events are increasing in intensity, and only represent the 
visible signs of climate change. Other consequences include loss of biodiversity and ecosystems, acidifica tion of oceans, sea -level rise 
and shifts in agricultural patterns. While gradual, these trends are expected to have more profound effects in the future.  
Multinational companies can help to address climate change by understanding their impacts and decreasi ng GHG emissions through 
innovative emissions reduction programs. These are core elements of Baxter's sustainability efforts.  
Baxter’s GHG Emissions Management Program  
Baxter began reporting its Scope 1, Scope 2 and certain Scope 3 GHG emissions in 1997 an d contributed to the development of the 
initial version of the GHG Protocol, a collaboration of World Resources Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainable 
Development. Companies generally have the greatest control over and ability to impact S cope 1 emissions (associated with their own 
fuel usage, use of refrigerants and other factors) and Scope 2 emissions (associated with purchased energy/electricity), such as 
through energy conservation and use of renewable energy. Baxter has a long history of focusing in these areas.  
In 2010, Baxter consulted a draft of the GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard (finalized 
in 2011) to better understand its overall GHG emissions. Since then, Baxter has worked to better quantify its Scope 3 emissions, which 
the company estimated to be 4.1 million metrics tons carbon dioxide equivalent (CO 2e) in 2011 (including Upstream and Downstream 
Scope 3 Emissions).  
Baxter estimates its total global value chain GHG emissions (includin g Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3) at 4.8 million metric tons CO 2e. 
The emissions reported below are presented in accordance with guidance provided by the GHG Protocol (Scope 1 and Scope 2) and the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Stan dard.  
Baxter reports its emissions in three principal categories: Upstream Scope 3 Emissions, Baxter Operations (Scope 1 and Scope 2 
Emissions) and Downstream Scope 3 Emissions. Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions have a high level of certainty and are verified by an 
external third party. Scope 3 categories such as Purchased Goods and Services (supply chain), Downstream Transportation and 
Distribution (logistics) and Use of Sold Products include certain assumptions and estimates. Baxter continues to refine its un derstanding 
of total company value chain GHG emissions and to implement emissions reduction strategies.  
Click on each segment of this graphic to learn more about the company's activities and performance in that area.  
 
 
 
	  
http:/ /sustainability.baxter.com/documents/baxter -energy -usage- and-ghg- emissions -2011.pdf  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
    
 
    
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
    
	  
http:/ /sustainability.baxter.com/documents/baxter -energy -usage- and-ghg- emissions -2011.pdf  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Upstream Scope 3 GHG emissions  
The GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard define eight upstream Scope 3 categories. 
Baxter has estimated GHG emissions for seven of these, summarized below, and continues to evaluate possible emi ssions associated 
with the remaining one.  
Purchased Goods and Services 
Baxter worked with a UK -based firm in 2009 and 2010 to model estimated GHG emissions associated with the company’s global 
supply chain – from the acquisition and processing of raw mater ials to the delivery of products to Baxter. The firm based its estimate 
on data from other companies in the healthcare sector and representative suppliers as well as publicly reported Baxter financial and 
environmental data.  
Based on this analysis, the est imated emissions in this category attributable to Baxter’s business equaled 1,121,000 metric tons CO
2e 
in 2011, 23.1% of Baxter’s total value chain GHG emissions. This included an estimated 266,000 metric tons CO
2e for Baxter’s first -
tier suppliers, and an  estimated 855,000 metric tons CO
2e from sub- tier suppliers. Following the new Scope 3 guidance, Baxter 
reports supply chain transportation -related GHG emissions under Upstream Transportation and Distribution emissions (see below).  
See Global  Sustainable Supply  Chain  for more detail about Baxter’s efforts to encourage suppliers to improve their environmental 
performance, including reducing GHG emissions.  
Capital Goods 
Greenhouse gas emissions associated with the procurement of capital goods, such as manufacturing equipment and new or renovated facilities, are estimated at 96,000 metric tons CO
2e in 2011, 2.0% of Baxterʼ s total value chain GHG emissions.  
Fuel and Energy-Related Activities 
This category includes emissions related to the production of fuels and energy purchased and consumed by the reporting company in the reporting year that are not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2.
1 Baxter continues to evaluate poss ible emissions associated with this 
category  
Upstream Transportation and Distribution 
Baxter estimates upstream transportation and distribution GHG emissions relating to its supply chain at 124,000 metric tons CO 2e in 
2011, 2.6% of Baxter ʼs total value cha in GHG emissions. This includes first tier suppliersʼ  transportation and distribution emissions of 
29,000 metric tons CO 2e, and an estimated 95,000 metric tons CO 2e for sub -tier suppliers.  
Waste Generated in Operations 
Baxter estimates GHG emissions associ ated with two elements of this category. For 2011, estimated GHG emissions related to off -site 
water and wastewater treatment equaled 4,000 metric tons CO 2e and off -site waste management equaled 3,000 metric tons CO 2e. The 
combined 7,000 metric tons CO 2e represented 0.1% of Baxterʼ s total value chain GHG emissions.  	  
http:/ /sustainability.baxter.com/documents/baxter -energy -usage- and-ghg- emissions -2011.pdf  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Employee Business Travel 
Greenhouse gas emissions related to employee business travel equaled 51,000 metric tons CO 2e in 2011, 1.1% of Baxterʼ s total value 
chain GHG emissions. These include comm ercial air travel (44,000 metric tons CO 2e), use of rental cars and public transportation 
(3,000 metric tons CO 2e) and use of hotel rooms and conference meeting facilities (4,000 metric tons CO 2e). These estimates are 
based in part on data supplied by Baxt er's travel providers. 
Employee Commuting 
Baxter estimates GHG emissions associated with employee commuting at 84,000 metric tons CO 2e in 2011, 1.7% of the company ʼs 
total value chain GHG emissions. These emissions are based on employee counts by region, a pproximate average commute distance 
and commuting mode. 
Upstream Leased Assets 
Baxter estimates GHG emissions associated with upstream leased assets at 22,000 metric tons CO 2e in 2011, 0.5% of the company ʼs 
total value chain GHG emissions. In addition to l eased facilities space, this includes estimated GHG emissions from certain joint 
business ventures and recent business acquisitions that will be integrated into Baxter within set timeframes.  
Baxter Operations – Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG Emissions  
Greenhouse gas emissions related to Baxter ʼs operations are due to facility energy use, company -operated business vehicles, and 
certain refrigerant losses. Baxter ʼs emissions from operations excluding offsets equaled 794,000 metric tons CO 2e in 2011, 16.4% of the 
company ʼs total value chain GHG emissions. This included 336,000 metric tons CO 2e of Scope 1 emissions and 458,000 metric tons 
CO 2e of Scope 2 GHG emissions. See  Baxter  Operations  GHG Emissions for extensive detail.  
Downstream Scope 3 GHG Emissions  
The GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard define seven downstream Scope 3 
categories. Bax ter has estimated GHG emissions for five of these, summarized below, and continues to evaluate possible emissions 
associated with the remaining two. 
Downstream Transportation and Distribution 
Baxter's Supply Chain and Environmental, Health and Safety organ izations worked together in 2009 and 2010 to estimate global GHG 
emissions associated with delivering finished products to customers. In 2011, Baxterʼ s Logistics group worked with an outside vendor to 
refine these calculations. The vendor used emissions fa ctors from the GHG Protocol to calculate GHG emissions for five modes of 
shipment (truck, rail, air, river barge and ocean), within and between regions. Baxter continues to work with the vendor on this effort.  
Baxter estimates the emissions associated with  downstream transportation and distribution at 523,000 metric tons CO 2e in 2011, 10.8% 
of Baxterʼ s total value chain GHG emissions. This does not include the emissions of Baxter's operated vehicle fleet, including sales and 
distribution vehicles, which the  company includes in its Scope 1 emissions under Operations. See  Product  Transport  for more 	  
http:/ /sustainability.baxter.com/documents/baxter -energy -usage- and-ghg- emissions -2011.pdf  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  information about initiatives in this area.  
Processing of Sold Products 
This category includes emissions from the processing of sold intermediate products2 by third parties (e.g., manufacturers) subsequent 
to sale by the reporting company. Baxter continues to evaluate possible emissions associated with this category.  
Use of Sold Products 
Baxter estimates that GHG emissions associated with the use of its products equaled about 1,955,000 metric tons CO 2e in 2011, 40.3 
% of Baxter ʼs total value chain GHG emissions. Strategies are being explored to mitigate some of these product -related emissions  
End-of-life Treatment of Sold Products 
Baxter estimates that GHG emissions associated with end of life treatment of sold products were approximately 57,000 metric tons 
CO 2e in 2011, 1.2% of Baxterʼ s total value chain GHG emissions.  
Downstream Leased Assets 
This category includes emissions not already included in Scope 1 or Scope 2.from the operation of assets that are owned by the reporting company (acting as lessor) and leased to other entities in the reporting year.
3 Baxter continues to  evaluate possible emissions 
associated with this category.  
Franchises4 
Baxter estimates that GHG emissions associated with franchises were approximately 7,000 metric tons CO 2e in 2011, 0.1% of Baxterʼ s 
total value chain GHG emissions.  
Investments 
Baxter e stimates that GHG emissions associated with investments were approximately 4,000 metric tons CO 2e in 2011, less than one 
0.1% of Baxter ʼs total value chain GHG emissions.  
 
  
 
  
	  
http:/ /sustainability.baxter.com/documents/baxter -energy -usage- and-ghg- emissions -2011.pdf  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  1.See Category 3 of the GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard.  
2.Intermediate products are products that require further processing, transformation, or inclusion in another product prior to use. See Category 10 of the GHG 
Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Stan dard. 
3.See Category 13 the GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard.  
4.This category includes estimated GHG emissions from the operation of franchises not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2 emissions. A franchise is a bus iness 
operating under a license to sell or distribute another company’s goods or services within a certain location. See Category 14 the GHG Protocol Corporate Value 
Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard.	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/environmental -performance/ ghg- emissions- from-operations.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  GHG Emissions from Operations  
 
Greenh ouse gas (GHG) emissions related to Baxterʼ s operations 
are due to facility energy use, Baxter -operated sales, distribution 
and other business vehicles, and refrigerant losses. 
The company's approach to managing and reducing GHG 
emissions from operations i ncludes 18 program and reduction 
strategies. Program strategies describe broader aspects of Baxter ʼs 
approach such as developing an overall GHG reduction strategy, 
setting GHG emissions reduction goals, measuring and reporting 
progress, and others. These are complemented by specific approaches to reducing GHG emissions such as fuel switching and cogeneration, installation of onsite renewable energy systems, 
purchase of renewable power, participation in carbon trading 
systems, and development and leasing of green "high -
performance" buildings.  
Baxter is committed to reducing GHG emissions from operations 45% indexed to revenue by 2015 compared to 2005. From 2005 to 2011, Baxter decreased net GHG emissions from operations by 7% 
in absolute terms and 34% indexed to revenue. The company is on 
track to meet its goal.  
Total net emissions from operations of 717,800 metric tons carbon dioxide equivalent (CO
2e) in 2011 include a subtraction of the 
following:  
• 59,200 metric tons CO 2e due to purchased electricity generate d 
from certified renewable energy in Austria, Spain, Switzerland, 
United Kingdom and the United States;  
• 13,400 metric tons CO 2e of carbon credits purchased prior to 2011 on the Chicago Climate Exchange (CCX, now 
IntercontinentalExchange) and applied in 201 1; and  
• 3,600 metric tons CO 2e associated with carbon sequestration projects in Canada and Costa Rica.  
The sum of 76,200 metric tons CO 2e for these items is equivalent to 9.6% of total emissions from operations excluding offsets (794,000 
metric tons CO 2e) during 2011. This amount accounted for 6% of the company ʼs progress so far (34% reduction indexed to revenue, 
compared to 2005) toward its 2015 GHG reduction goal.  
The following table describes the sources of GHG emissions from Baxter operations during 2011 . 
 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/environmental -performance/ ghg- emissions- from-operations.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  GHG Emissions from Baxter Operations, 2011*  
 Metric Tons CO 2e Percent of Total  Primary GHG 
Reduction Focus  
Facility Purchased Electricity and Steam  458,000  57.7%  Energy Conservation  
Facility Fossil Fuel Use  254,000  32.0%  Energy Conservation  
Baxter O perated Sales, Distributed and Other Business Vehicles  51,000  6.4%  Improved vehicle 
efficiency  
Refrigerant Related Emissions  31,000  3.9%  Switching to lower 
GHG potential 
refrigerants  
Subtotal  794,000  100%   
Purchase of Renewable Energy (Electricity) and Carbon Credits, and Support of 
Carbon Sequestration Projects  76,200    
Net GHG Emissions  717,800    
*See the Biomass Fuel section below for detail about emissions from biomass -fired boilers at two Baxter locations. Since biomass is generated from a renewab le 
energy resource, it is not included in Scope 1 GHG emissions or the table above.  
 
Energy Management 
Energy usage accounts for approximately 96% of Baxter's GHG emissions from operations. Therefore, energy conservation is core to 
Baxter's GHG emissions -reduction efforts. The company's primary energy source is electricity, which represents more than 57% of 
GHG emissions from operations (see table above).  
Energy- related GHG -reduction activities include the use of innovative technologies such as low energy light emitting diode (LED) 
lighting, fuel switching (such as from fuel oil to natural gas, a lower carbon fuel), biomass -fueled boilers and  cogenera tionsystems. For 
more detail on these and other activities, see the sections below and the Energy page.  
Biomass-Fueled Boilers 
In 2011, biomass fuels were used as input energy at two Baxter locations (Marion, North Carolina, United States, and Alathur, In dia) 
(see  case study  ). During the year, emissions from these biomass boiler operations equaled 172,000 metric tons CO 2e. Following the 
Greenhouse  Gas Protocol1, the company reports data for CO 2 emissions from biologically sequestrated carbon (such as from burning 
biomass/biofuels) separately from its total emissions from operations (Scope 1 and 2). Per the protocol, Baxter does not include these emissions in measuring progress toward its 2015 GHG emissions reduction goal. See more detail in the table,
 Baxter's  Energ y Usage  and 
Greenhouse  Gas Emissions . 
Cogeneration Systems 
In 2011, Baxterʼ s Castlebar, Ireland, facility completed its first full year of operation with its new cogeneration equipment. At year -end 
2011 Baxter ʼs Lessines, Belgium, facility started up a ne w cogeneration system as well. Both locations converted from using fuel oil as 
primary input energy for their boilers to natural gas, thereby reducing net GHG emissions from these sites by approximately 30%. 
Baxter also has a cogeneration system at its Spa in manufacturing site.  
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/environmental -performance/ ghg- emissions- from-operations.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Renewable Energy  
Baxter is committed to increasing facility energy usage of renewable power to 20% (of total energy use) by 2015. In 2011, 19% of 
Baxter ʼs energy use for operations was from renewable energy sources. Of this amount, 8 % was renewable energy associated with 
using biomass fuel for boilers at two Baxter locations – one in India and one in the United States. 11% was the renewable energy 
component of purchased electricity and renewable energy certificates (RECs). A small amo unt of Baxter ʼs renewable energy use for 
operations in 2011 was from onsite geothermal systems and a number of smaller onsite solar photovoltaic (PV) and solar hot water systems.  
During 2011, Baxter purchased 153,700 megawatt hours (MWh) of electricity gen erated from 100% certified renewable power. This 
included 102,200 MWh for company operations in Europe (Austria, Spain, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom) and 51,500 MWh of certified renewable energy certificates (RECs) for U.S. operations. Baxter was re cognized as the 29th largest corporate purchaser of 
renewable energy in the United States at year -end 2011.
2 
The following table summarizes the energy sources used to generate electricity for Baxter globally for 2007 and 2010. During that period, renewable  energy sources increased from 22.5% to 28.2%.  
Energy Sources Used to Generate Electricity Used by Baxter*  
Non-renewable Energy Sources  2007  2010  
Coal 31.8%  28.9%  
Natural Gas  22.5%  22.3%  
Nuclear  14.2%  13.3%  
Oil 8.5%  6.8%  
Waste  0.5%  0.5%  
Subtotal  77.5% 71.8%  
Renewable Energy Sources   
Biomass  1.5%  2.4%  
Geothermal  0.5%  0.5%  
Hydroelectric  16.2%  17.8%  
Solar  0.0%  0.2%  
Wind  4.3%  7.4%  
Subtotal  22.5%  28.2%  
Total  100%  100%  
*This information is based upon the most recent country data available from the  International Energy Agency (IEA) and the additional renewable energy 
purchased by Baxter in specific countries in 2007 and 2010. Unlike Baxter’s 2015 renewable energy goal, this table does not take into account for onsite 
renewable energy systems.  
 	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/environmental -performance/ ghg- emissions- from-operations.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Baxte r also has implemented several on- site renewable energy projects recently. The capacity of the company ʼs total on -site solar PV 
and solar hot water systems at year -end 2011 was estimated to be 1.2 MWh. The following are examples of Baxter renewable energy 
systems:  
• 2011 – Baxter installed solar hot water or PV systems at its Orth, Austria; Vienna, Austria; São Paulo, Brazil and Cuernavaca, 
Mexico, facilities.  
• 2010- 2011 – Baxter installed geothermal systems at its locations in Orth, Austria, and Marsa, Malta.  (Baxter had previously installed 
a geothermal system at its office in Munich, Germany about 15 years ago.)  
• 2010 – Baxter installed solar PV systems at its Los Angeles, California, United States, and Aibonito, Puerto Rico, facilities.  
• 2009 – Baxter began t o lease its new European headquarters in Zurich, Switzerland, with a rooftop solar PV system.  
• 2008 – Baxter installed solar PV systems at its Sintra, Portugal, and Valencia, Spain, offices and distribution facilities.  
• 2002- 2008 – Baxter piloted cleaner -burning biodiesel -fueled vehicles at facilities in Austria and Puerto Rico.  
• 2000- 2009 – Baxter installed rooftop solar systems at facilities in China, India, Malta, Puerto Rico and the United States (Illinois).  
As world energy prices rise and carbon constrain ts intensify, Baxter will continue to adopt, where feasible, renewable energy and 
alternative lower- carbon fuels.  
Green Buildings  
High-performance green buildings provide many benefits that enhance employee productivity and reduce operating expense. Baxter  
has incorporated green building design principles and achieved or is working toward U.S. Green Building Council Leadership in Energy 
and Environmental Design (LEED) certification at several sites, including Baxter facilities in Vienna, Austria (achieved L EED Gold 
certification in 2011); Rome, Italy (achieved LEED Silver certification in 2011); and Mississauga, Canada (targeting LEED Gold 
certification in 2012). See  Case Study: Employees and the Environment Benefit from New Vienna, Austria, Green Building  and EHS 
Management Syste ms for a summary of Baxter Green Building Certifications.  
Carbon Neutrality  
Beginning in 2007, Baxter has used various means such as electricity generated from certified renewable energy, carbon credits and 
carbon offsets to achieve and maintain "carbon n eutrality" at its headquarters in Deerfield, Illinois, United States, and its facility in 
Cartago, Costa Rica. In both cases, at a minimum, the company offsets facility -related emissions from purchased electricity as well as 
fuel combustion on site. Beginn ing in 2012, all purchased electricity used by Baxter operations in Illinois, United States, approximately 
80,000 MWh per year, will be generated from 100% wind generated Green -e certified renewable energy.  
Emissions Trading – Applying Market -based Solutio ns 
Baxter has used a market -based approach (carbon cap- and-trade) to gain experience in the voluntary U.S. emissions trading market, to 
offset some of its GHG emissions, and to meet obligations for one facility that is subject to the European Union Emissio ns Trading 
Scheme. In 2003, Baxter was a founding member of the Chicago Climate Exchange (CCX, now IntercontinentalExchange), which was 	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/environmental -performance/ ghg- emissions- from-operations.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  the world's first and North America's only carbon cap- and-trade system for all six greenhouse gases. Baxter participated  in the CCX 
Phase 1 and Phase II programs (2003 -2010).  
Through its involvement in the CCX, Baxter was the first company to purchase soil -based carbon credits offered by Illinois farmers and 
landowners through the Illinois Conservation and Climate Initiativ e in 2007. Baxter was also the first company, in 2006, to transfer 
emissions credits between the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme and the CCX, demonstrating the potential of international 
carbon exchanges to form a unified global carbon market.  
Public Policy –  Advocating Solutions to Address Climate Change  
Baxter issued a formal position on energy and climate change in October 2001. The company's position has underpinned its public 
policy activity on this issue over the last decade. Baxter ʼs advocacy  on this issue has declined during recent years as the company's 
governmental affairs group has focused primarily on healthcare reform. See  Public Policy for detail.  
Affiliations  
Baxter is involved in  national and international organizations  focused on climate change, such as Ceres, the Global Reporting Initiative, 
and the Center for Health a nd the Global Environment. The company has received  various recognitions  in this area.  
1.The Greenhouse Gas Protocol,  Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standards (Corporate Standard ) 
2.U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Green Power Partnership Fortune 500 Partners List, January 5, 2012.	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/environmental -performance/waste.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Waste  
 
Baxter has prioritized minimizing waste  since establishing its first waste reduction goals in 1996. Early waste reduction efforts focused 
on decreasing potential risk and liability. Since the early 2000s, the company ʼs efforts in this area have also been motivated by potential 
financial gains a nd process efficiency.  
Baxter performs detailed tracking and analysis of waste data from each major facility. This enables the company to assess progress 
toward waste -reduction goals and identify opportunities to improve the efficiency of processes that ge nerate waste. Baxter ʼs new 
environmental, health and safety (EHS) information management system deployed in 2010 enables the company to track waste performance monthly, which shortens reaction time when issues arise. Facilities also are implementing more r obust means of 
measuring waste at the point of generation, which helps to immediately identify significant sources. These and other waste reduction activities help to reduce expenses related to raw materials, waste handling and disposal. Waste minimization  also reduces 
environmental impacts due to waste disposal and recycling.  
Because Baxter sites generate different types of waste, the 
company ʼs total w aste goals  , which combine non -hazardous and 
regulated waste, encourage each site to focus on the type of waste most 
relevant to its own operations. Baxter has committed to reduce waste generation by 20% indexed to revenue by 2015, compared to 2005. Baxte r identifies its leading opportunities to decrease waste based on 
factors including the highest volume waste streams across the company, 
facilities that produce the most waste, and sites with particularly strong 
potential to improve. 
Total Waste Performanc e 
During 2011, Baxter's operations generated 70,700 metric tons of total waste, up 26% from 2005 in absolute terms and an 11% decrease indexed to revenue.  
In absolute terms, total waste increased by 21% during 2011 compared to 2010. Baxter faced the follow ing challenges during the year in this 
area:  
• A product recall in the Europe, Middle East and Africa region resulted 
in approximately 9,400 metric tons of total waste in 2011, 13% of the 
2011 global total. Excluding this waste, Baxter would have 
experienced a 9% increase in waste generation in absolute terms and 
a 23% decrease indexed to revenue compared to 2005.  
• Continuing collection and disposal or recycling of Baxter ʼs 
COLLEAGUE pump from customers as well as upgrading of certain 
Renal products generated approximately 600 metric tons of waste in 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/environmental -performance/waste.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  2011, about 1% of the total waste generated during the year.  
• Baxter continued to consolidate and relocate certain office operations during 2011. These activities, which continued into 2012, 
increased office- related waste streams in 2011.  
Counteracting some of the challenges listed above, Baxter increased its 
use of methodologies and management tools such as Lean and Six Sigma to help reduce total waste generation at several facilities. For example, Baxterʼ s Sesto, Italy, facility generates several types of 
regulated wastes that can be costly to dispose. Using the Six Sigma DMAIC (define, measure, analyze, improve and control) waste -reduction 
methodology, the site identified a clear correlation between certain activi ties at the site and certain waste streams, and implemented actions 
to reduce waste generation at the source. In 2011, the site reduced total waste generated by 18 metric tons compared to 2010, a 4% reduction in absolute terms, despite increasing productio n by 9%.  
Non-hazardous Waste Performance 
During 2011, Baxter's operations generated 65,000 metric tons of non -
hazardous waste, 25% more than in 2005 in absolute terms and an 11% decrease indexed to revenue.  
Plastic scrap continues to be Baxter ʼs largest w aste stream, generating 
roughly one -third of the companyʼ s non- hazardous waste. Baxter ʼs 
Corporate Environmental Engineering group started an initiative in 2010 
to identify opportunities to reduce plastic waste generation at the source 
through a systematic  approach that emphasizes continual improvement 
and draws on Lean and Six Sigma tools. The company is already 
beginning to see the success of these efforts. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/environmental -performance/waste.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Other facilities have reduced waste by focusing on manufacturing 
efficiency. During 2011,  Baxterʼ s Lessines, Belgium, Cuernavaca, 
Mexico, and Singapore, facilities implemented efforts that reduced plastic waste by a combined 140 metric tons compared to the prior year.  
In 2011, Baxter also implemented projects focused on reducing 
packaging wast e. The company ʼs São Paulo, Brazil; Cali, Colombia; 
Castlebar, Ireland, and Cuernavaca, Mexico, facilities reduced cardboard 
waste by a total of 166 metric tons. In addition, facilities including 
Lessines, Belgium; Grosotto, Italy; Guangzhou, China; Cali, Colombia; and São Paulo, Brazil, implemented projects to reduce other packaging materials such as bags, overpouches, inserts and bottles, saving 91 
metric tons. See Packag ing for details.  
1"Other" includes all other recycled non -hazardous waste streams such as ink 
cartridges, protein paste waste, Styrofoam and metal drums.  
 
2Regulated waste streams sent for recycling including batteries and chemicals and solvents  
Baxter h as consistently increased its recycling rate since 2007. Of the 65,000 metric tons of non -hazardous waste generated in 2011, 
Baxter recycled approximately 45,000 metric tons, or 69%. Baxter also recycled 1,600 metric tons of regulated waste in 2011, for an  
overall recycling rate of 66%. The increased rate is partly due to changes in how Baxter facilities report waste recycling and disposal. 
The companyʼ s new EHS information management system enables 
facilities to indicate if a waste stream is incinerated or  incinerated with 
energy recovery, of which the latter is considered recycling.  
Recycling activities at Baxter generated approximately $5.1 million in 
revenue in 2011. Although some recycled waste streams do not generate 
revenue, even in those cases, recycling typically costs less than 
disposal. Recycling revenue in 2011 decreased by 14% compared to 2010 due to lower prices paid for recycled materials.  
Regulated Waste Performance  
Baxter reports the category of “regulated waste” rather than “hazardous waste. ” This includes a broader array of materials that would otherwise 
be classified as non- hazardous in certain countries, which helps 
harmonize Baxter ʼs waste reporting across countries with varying waste 
regulations. In addition to wastes typically considere d hazardous in most 
countries (such as toxics and corrosives), the company also includes oils, biohazardous or infectious materials, batteries, fluorescent lamps, asbestos and other materials that may not be defined as hazardous 
waste by national legislati on at the point of origin. Regulated waste 
represented about 8% of the waste Baxter generated in 2011.  
Baxter's global operations generated 5,700 metric tons of regulated 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/environmental -performance/waste.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  waste in 2011, 39% more than in 2005 in absolute terms and a 2% decrease indexed to r evenue. The company increased regulated 
waste by 6% on an absolute basis compared to 2010, principally due to continued collection and disposal or recycling of Baxter ʼs 
Colleague pump from customers and increased activity at several of the company ʼs Biosci ence plasma related operations.  
Over the years, Baxter has reduced regulated waste such as solvents to the point that many of the company ʼs large facilities no longer 
generate significant quantities. A substantial remaining regulated waste stream is biohaz ardous or medical waste, including plasma 
waste. Operations that manufacture products derived from plasma, including plasma processing plants, generate wastes that present 
fewer opportunities for source reduction or reuse. Over the past year, Baxterʼ s EHS team in Los Angeles, California, United States, has 
worked with a waste management service to develop a comprehensive waste management program for the site. Through combined efforts they have identified innovative technologies to recycle and reuse certain challenging waste streams, including plasma waste. 
See Case Study: Baxter ʼs L.A. Facility Turns Production Waste into Electricity . 
Additional Waste Streams  
To more closely reflect production efficiency, Baxter excludes certain non -routine, non production- related waste streams from its total 
waste performance data and progress against its 2015 waste goal. The company reports these waste streams separat ely as shown in 
the following table, which allows for more consistent evaluation of facility performance and trends over time.  
Construction and demolition debris waste increased in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to several large expansion projects. Th e 
data also reflect improvements in the tracking and reporting of these waste streams.  
Non-production Waste Streams Not Included in Total Waste Performance (metric tons)  
   2009    2010    2011  
 Non-
Hazardous  Regulated  Total  Non-
Hazardous  Regulated  Total  Non-
Hazardous  Regulated  Total  
Construction  
and Demolition 
Debris  900 0 900 6,100  0 6,100  14,000  0 14,000  
Remediation 
Waste  0 0 0 0 10 10 0 3,810  3,810  
Wastewater 
Treatment 
Sludge  1,300  20 1,320  1,400  10 1,410  1,900  100 2,000  
Total  2,200  20 2,200  7,500  20 7,520  15,900  3,910  19,810  
 	  
http://sustainabi lity.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/environmental -performance/ water -and-wastewater.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Water and Wastewater  
 
 
Water scarcity and access to water continue to grow in visibility and importance worldwide. Although global concerns, addressing these 
issues requires action at a local or regional level, since conserv ation efforts in one part of the world do not help address water scarcity 
and access in other locations. Due to the local nature of water issues, companies must first understand water risks associated with local operations before they can take appropriate and meaningful action. 
Water is integral to many of Baxter ʼs products and manufacturing processes, and considers its responsibility to conserve water as a key 
focus. Baxter works to better understand the impacts of its water use across the value chain, and  implements conservation and 
efficiency projects at its manufacturing facilities to improve its performance.  
Baxter is committed to reducing water consumption by 35% indexed to revenue by 2015, compared to 2005. The company also has committed to implement two projects by 2015 to help protect vulnerable watersheds and provide communities with enhanced access to clean water.  
Water and other environmental issues are interconnected. For example, global warming and resulting climate change are expected to decre ase fresh water availability significantly, especially in water -scarce areas.1  As temperatures rise, higher sea levels may increase 
salt water intrusion and degradation in water aquifers near the ocean.  
Water consumption, energy usage and greenhouse gas emissions are interrelated within Baxterʼ s manufacturing operations as well. The 
production of highly purified water requires energy to operate water purification equipment such as reverse osmosis and water distillation units. As water quality decreases, Bax ter will need to use additional 
energy and water for these purposes.  
Water Usage  
Baxter closely manages how it obtains, uses, treats, re -circulates and 
discharges water. In 2011, the company acquired about half of its water from on -site wells and about hal f from municipal water distribution 
systems. In 2012, Baxter initiated a survey of its manufacturing facilities 
to improve its understanding of the sources of water used, including the 
water provided by municipal systems.  
In 2011, Baxter's global operation s used approximately 13.8 million cubic 
meters2  of water, roughly equivalent to filling more than 15 Olympic -
sized swimming pools every day. The company used 6% less water in 2011 than in 2005 in absolute terms and 33% less indexed to revenue. 
Although Bax ter is on target to meet its 2015 water -reduction goal, last 
year the companyʼ s total water usage increased for the first time since 
	  
http://sustainabi lity.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/environmental -performance/ water -and-wastewater.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  2005. Baxter used 4% more water in 2011 than in 2010, largely due to increased manufacturing activity at numerous Baxter fa cilities 
globally.  
Baxter uses water in three main ways:  
• Process -related uses include cooling towers, chillers, steam boilers, 
sterilizers and water purification;  
• Use of purified water in the company ʼs solution products; and  
• Other uses such as in bathroom s, cafeterias and landscaping.  
Water Conservation  
Facilities with water -intensive operations develop site -specific water 
efficiency initiatives and metrics. Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) 
and Facilities Engineering Services personnel review performan ce to 
identify best practices for application at other locations.  
Baxter identifies water usage reduction opportunities and possible water 
conservation projects in several ways. Due to the strong link between energy usage and water processing, optimizing w ater systems 
remains a key focus of the company ʼs facility energy assessments . Additionally, Baxter integrates Lean manufacturing principles an d 
tools, such as value stream mapping, with water management, to help facilities identify areas for additional conservation.  
Water value stream mapping is an interactive, Lean manufacturing tool that helps facilities better understand the quantity and qual ity of 
water used in their processes and identifies opportunities for reduction or reuse. In 2005, Baxter participated in a series of workshops with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and several other companies to explore how Lean manufacturin g tools could be 
applied to environmental challenges. Following these workshops, the U.S. EPA published a series of toolkits that illustrates how 
organizations can use tools such as value stream maps to improve environmental performance.  
During 2011, Baxt er implemented water recovery and reuse projects at several facilities:  
 
     
 
  
	  
http://sustainabi lity.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/environmental -performance/ water -and-wastewater.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Water -Stressed Locations 
Water issues vary significantly by location. Baxter used the World 
Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Global Water Tool to evaluate  the availability of renewable water resources at Baxterʼ s 
largest water -consuming locations, which represent approximately 92% 
of the company ʼs total water use. Nine of those sites are located in 
water -scarce areas, eight in water -stressed areas and 22 in water -
sufficient areas (see second note on graph below).  
Water usage in water -scarce and water -stressed areas increased 5% in 
absolute terms in 2011 compared to 2010, primarily due to production growth at those locations. Although Baxter has not establish ed more 
aggressive water goals for these locations, water use normalized to production decreased by 4% at these locations combined – outpacing 
the internal corporate target of a 3% annual reduction.  
While the WBCSD water tool has helped Baxter screen opera tions 
located in potentially water -scarce or water -stressed areas, the company 
has initiated a study to better understand the full water risk at each 
location. Building on the WBCSD approach, this study broadly defines 
water risk in three categories: cost and regulatory risks, access and 
growth -constraint risks, and reputation and right -to-operate risks.  
With the help of Water Advocates, Baxter has begun to explore partnership opportunities with local non -governmental organizations 
(NGOs) to implement proje cts to help protect vulnerable watersheds or provide communities with enhanced access to clean water and 
sanitation.  
Baxter has entered an agreement with a local NGO to implement a community water project near the company ʼs facility in Canlubang, 
Philippines. This project aims to improve the water, sanitation and hygiene conditions of the nearly 1,500 individuals in Sitio Silangan. 
The project objectives are to:  
• Introduce sustainable potable water sources to Sitio Silangan;  
• Raise awareness about low -cost wa ter supply and sanitation solutions for households and the community;  
• Introduce and provide training on low -cost water supply, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) technologies for human health, community 
empowerment and environmental protection; and  
• Build the ca pacity of the community to manage its water supply and sanitation systems sustainably.  
Baxter also is exploring similar projects near its Cuernavaca, Mexico, facility.  
Wastewater  
Wastewater discharged from Baxter's production operations represents one of t he company's most significant  environmental 
compliance  risks. In 2011, 73 of Baxterʼ s 74 self -reported environmental incidents were exceedances of perm itted wastewater 
	  
http://sustainabi lity.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/environmental -performance/ water -and-wastewater.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  discharge limits. During the year, 81% of the reported wastewater discharge exceedances were from two Baxter locations: Lessines, 
Belgium, reported 35 wastewater exceedances related to temperature, and Sabiñánigo, Spain, reported 25 wastew ater exceedances, 
primarily involving increased flow of treated wastewater. Both facilities have worked with local environmental authorities to make certain that responses are satisfactory. In addition, Baxterʼ s environmental engineering group engaged an e xternal wastewater expert during 
2011 to ensure implementation of proper preventive actions at both locations.  
A single event may result in numerous environmental compliance incidents. For instance, a discharge of hot water during the course of seven days that elevates the wastewater discharge temperature above the daily regulatory limit would count as seven environmental 
compliance incidents. The Lessines and Sabiñánigo facilities both experienced events that spanned multiple days and resulted in multiple exceedances.  
Baxter ʼs Lessines facility has received temporary authorization from local regulatory officials for higher temperature wastewater 
discharge limits. This provides the facility time to investigate the sources of elevated wastewater temperature a nd implement projects to 
recover heat and water and reduce overall wastewater temperature. Addressing the source of the issue is preferable to installing additional pollution -control equipment at the wastewater treatment plant outfall.  
The companyʼ s Sabina nigo facility received a new wastewater discharge permit in 2011 that is sufficient for its operations and allows 
increased wastewater discharge volumes. The facility continues to pursue water -conservation projects.  
In 2011, Baxterʼ s Castlebar, Ireland, fa cility received a complaint from the operator of the municipal wastewater treatment plant 
following the discharge of cleaning solution to the Baxter -dedicated wastewater pre -treatment system operated by another private 
entity. In response, Baxter has diver ted large volumes of cleaning solution from the wastewater treatment plant and initiated 
engineering studies with the wastewater treatment plant operator to potentially modify the wastewater pretreatment system. Baxter continues to collaborate with governm ent authorities and the pretreatment plant operator to identify solutions. The complaint generated 
interest by environmental regulatory officials and resulted in one notice of violation in 2011.  
To address actual wastewater compliance issues and to anticip ate potential ones, since 2006 Baxter ʼs environmental engineering group 
has performed wastewater risk evaluations and developed recommendations for facilities with elevated wastewater compliance risk.  
The group selects facilities for evaluation based on:  
• Noncompliance history;  
• Potential for noncompliance to result in environmental impact;  
• Facility wastewater treatment capacity and reliability;  
• Anticipated changes in production or the introduction of new products; and  
• Sufficiency of resources that support wa stewater operations.  
Baxter -Operated Wastewater Treatment Systems  
Twelve of Baxter ʼs manufacturing operations treat wastewater on -site and either discharge to a waterway or operate as zero -discharge 
facilities. These facilities typically do not have access  to regional or municipal wastewater -treatment systems. For example, Baxterʼ s 
facilities in Alathur and Waluj, India, reuse all treated wastewater on -site for landscaping and irrigation or, after further treatment by 
reverse osmosis, for cooling -towers. In  2011, these 12 facilities treated 4.4 million cubic meters of wastewater, nearly 32% of Baxter's 	  
http://sustainabi lity.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/environmental -performance/ water -and-wastewater.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  total water consumption.  
Baxter uses the following indicators to evaluate wastewater quality at the ten company facilities that discharge directly into waterw ays: 
• 5-day biochemical oxygen demand (BOD 5); 
• Chemical oxygen demand (COD); and  
• Total suspended solids (TSS).  
These are the most commonly used metrics of wastewater quality across Baxter operations and indicate the operational performance of 
wastewater trea tment systems. The company monitors and reports additional metrics following local requirements, but these are not 
collected at all sites and so are not included in this report.  
The combined treated effluent from the ten facilities that discharge to a wate rway contained substances that represent 24 metric tons of 
BOD5, 98 metric tons of COD and 49 metric tons of TSS. This equals average concentrations of 5 mg/liter BOD5, 22 mg/liter COD and 11 mg/liter TSS. These levels generally are regarded as indicators of adequately treated wastewater and are well below typical 
regulatory discharge limits.  
Wastewater Pollutants*  
  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  2011  Typical 
Acceptable 
Discharge 
Level (mg/L)  
BOD 5** Metric Tons  26 26 28 28 31 41 24  
 Mg/L  6 6 6 7 8 10 5 20 
COD**  Metric Tons  111 119 134 132 102 106 98  
 Mg/L  26 27 30 31 27 27 22 60 
TSS**  Metric Tons  45 49 53 48 31 34 49  
 Mg/L  11 11 12 11 8 9 11 20 
Total 
Direct 
Discharge  Cubic 
Metrics  4,340,000  4,565,000  4,538,000  4,295,000  3,777,000  3,948,000  4,404,0 00  
*Estimated total water pollutant levels for treated wastewater discharged directly into waterways. Data do not include two facilities that operate zero -discharge 
systems in accordance with local regulatory requirements.  
 
**When actual performance data  were not available, estimates were developed based on performance at similar facilities or on other measured performance 
indicators.  
 
 	  
http://sustainabi lity.baxter.com/environment -health- safety/environmental -performance/ water -and-wastewater.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Wastewater and Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients  
Baxter takes seriously the concern about active pharmaceutical ingredie nts (APIs) entering the public water supply. The company 
primarily produces solutions whose principal ingredients include water, salts and simple sugars. However, Baxter purchases and uses 
some solution therapies and products for injection that include API s. 
Baxter properly manages the APIs that it uses to help ensure they are not released into the environment during manufacturing. The 
company has developed proprietary processes to remove, destroy or deactivate some compounds though not required to do so by  law. 
All other compounds that cannot be managed this way or through traditional wastewater systems are destroyed by incineration or 
another environmentally responsible manner. 
Complementing these global processes, each Baxter facility determines the most effective and environmentally responsible method of 
protecting the public water supply and public health in accordance with company policies and local regulations. For example, Baxter ʼs 
major research and development facility in Round Lake, Illinois, Unite d States, has an ongoing program launched in 1989 to evaluate its 
solution products, including those containing APIs, for their removal in wastewater treatment systems. The company shares this 
information with Baxter facilities around the world.  
1The Inter governmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Fourth Assessment Report  
2One cubic meter equals 1,000 liters or 264 gallons.	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/ environmental -financial -statement.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  2011 Environmental Financial Statement  
 
Baxter's Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) function pioneered its Environmental Financial Statement (EFS) in 1994 (covering 1993 
data). The EFS demonstrates the value of the company ʼs proactive global environmental management program to EHS team members, 
senior leadership and other stakeholders. The company has typically demonstrated a return o f approximately three dollars per year for 
every dollar invested in a proactive global environmental program/ initiatives.  
For the first time since Baxter began producing the EFS, the company did not realize a net positive environmental income, savings and  
cost avoidance in 2011. Costs related to unexpected waste management activities were the main contributing factor for this situation. 
The EFS analysis helps Baxter determine where to focus additional resources for greatest impact, and in the past year, Ba xter has 
increased its focus on waste generation and related performance. The company expects to benefit from those efforts in future years. Environmental income, savings and cost avoidance equaled a net loss of $3.3 million for initiatives completed in 20 11. This amount 
decreased from a net gain of $11.8 million in 2010.  
Factors that significantly influenced 2011 performance include the following:  
1. Non-hazardous waste cost increases:  
• A product recall initiated in 2010 related to a Renal solution products ma nufactured in Europe, as well as related and ongoing 
remediation and revalidation efforts, resulted in approximately 9,400 metric tons of waste in 2011, 13% of the global total waste 
amount . This additional waste significantly impacted the savings and cos t avoidance associated with non- hazardous waste 
disposal, non -hazardous materials and increased overall waste disposal costs. The recall was completed in 2011.  
2. Regulated waste cost increases: 
• Increased regulated waste generation associated with the continu ed collection and recycling or disposal of Baxterʼ s 
COLLEAGUE intravenous solution pumps from customers.  
• Increased production activity and corresponding amounts of waste at several of the companyʼ s BioScience plasma -related 
operations negatively impacted t he savings and cost avoidance associated with regulated waste disposal and non -hazardous 
materials.  
3. Higher water costs  
• Increased average utility rates for water of nearly 6% compared to 2010 combined with higher levels of water consumption 
during the year negatively impacted net water cost savings and avoidance compared to prior years.  
Total estimated environmental income, savings and cost avoidance realized in 2011 from environmental initiatives implemented during 
the prior six years, including 2011, total ed $36.3 million.  
 
 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/ environmental -financial -statement.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Background  
When initiating the EFS, Baxter developed specific methodologies to estimate savings and cost avoidance. The company uses this 
approach consistently each year, to enhance the reliability and comparability of the results.  
In compiling the EFS, Baxter uses the following terms and conventions:  
Monetary Amounts  
Stated in U.S. dollars.  
Income  
Money received in each of the reported years.  
Savings  
Reduction in actual costs between the report year and the prior year. An increase in actual costs equals negative savings. 
Cost Avoidance 
Costs that the company would have incurred had the reduction activity not taken place. Conservation initiatives produce cost avoidance in the year commenced, and in future years in which the resource (su ch as 
energy, water or materials) remains eliminated from processes. To be conservative, Baxter stops accumulating cost avoidance from conservation activities after seven years (including the year implemented). This reflects the typical duration of many co nservation 
projects, after which additional improvements or changes may be made.  
Calculating Savings and Cost Avoidance  
In calculating savings and cost avoidance for resource reduction activities, Baxter assumes that production and distribution grow at the  
same rate as the company's cost of goods sold, and that resource use and waste generation increase at that same rate in the absence of reduction initiatives. Baxter determines this rate by calculating the average annual increase in the company's published  cost of goods 
sold over the past six years. It then adjusts this number for new acquisitions and changes in inventory, and subtracts inflation, which is 
calculated as an average of three major, relevant U.S. producer- price indexes. The company then rounds  the resulting growth rate 
down to the nearest whole number to conservatively report performance.  
In calculations related to materials use, Baxter uses the current average cost of materials and the compounded growth in business 
activity.  
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/ environmental -financial -statement.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Undetermined (and Unreported) Environmental -related Costs and Savings  
The following undetermined costs are not included in the EFS:  
• Environmentally driven materials research and other research and development. These costs are typically offset by increased sales 
and other no n-environmental benefits not reported in the EFS;  
• Capital costs of modifying processes and implementing certain resource conservation projects, other than adding pollution controls. 
These are typically offset by increased production rates, efficiencies and  other non -environmental benefits not reported in the EFS;  
• Cost of substitutes for ozone -depleting substances and other hazardous materials (estimated to be relatively minor); and  
• Time spent by non -environmental employees on environmental activities. Envir onmental training and responsibilities are part of 
every Baxter employee's job.  
Baxter's global environmental program also produces undetermined savings and other benefits that are not easily measured and are 
not included in the EFS. Examples include the f ollowing:  
• Decreased liability exposure related to the operation of regulated waste management sites by maintaining a program (launched in 
the 1980s) requiring a detailed audit of any such site before use by Baxter and periodic re -audits after the initial a ssessment;  
• Reduced risk due to other risk -management programs, including performance of environmental due diligence on all business 
acquisitions and divestitures, use of a common set of EHS policies throughout Baxter operations, auditing those operations r egularly 
against these policies and using a tracking system to resolve any audit findings;  
• Decreased regulatory burden by reducing waste generation at Baxter below certain thresholds (decreases training, recordkeeping, 
reporting, and administrative costs);  
• Avoided costs for environmental problems that did not occur due to Baxter's proactive efforts;  
• Enhanced ability for employees to focus on higher value tasks due to the reduction of waste, possible spills and other potential environmental problems;  
• Increas ed good will and brand value, improved company reputation and employee morale, and possible additional sales; and  
• Attraction and retention of key personnel in part due to Baxter ʼs strong environmental program.  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/documents/baxter -2011- environmental -financial -statement.pdf  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Baxer 2011 Environmental Financial Statement  
Estimated Environmental Costs, Income, Savings and Cost Avoidance Worldwide1 
 
    
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
    
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/documents/baxter -2011- environmental -financial -statement.pdf  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
  
 
 
 
1Financial numbers rounded to nearest US$100,000 to reflect appropriate degree of data accuracy.  
2Corporate environmental costs comprise total enviro nmental costs related to operating corporate environmental programs that report into Baxter manufacturing 
and legal groups. While corporate Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) and certain business unit EHS groups were integrated in 2003, total business un it 
program costs remain in the Business Unit/Regional/Facility Environmental Professionals and Programs line, as those environmental costs more directly support 
facility programs.  
3Cost of carbon offsets includes expenses associated with purchasing renewab le energy certificates, carbon credits purchased through the Chicago Climate 
Exchange (CCX, now IntercontinentalExchange) and the annual membership fee for that organization.  
4Following completion of the 1996 -2005 packaging -reduction goal, Baxter discontin ued tracking program costs and financial savings associated with packaging -
reduction initiatives at the corporate level. Baxter may reinstitute this line item in future financial statements.  
5Reflects change (positive for decrease and negative for increase ) for purchases of raw materials due to changes in material use efficiency and associated 
generation of waste.  
6In calculating savings and cost avoidance for waste -, energy - and water -reduction activities, it is assumed that production and distribution act ivities grew 
proportionately with Baxter’s publicly stated cost of goods sold, adjusted for changes in inventory and inflation. Baxter uses a three -year rolling average of the 
annual percentage change in growth in the cost of goods sold to determine the fi nancial values for each stated year. For 2011, the three -year rolling average was 
3%, for 2010, 2%; for 2009, 3%; for 2008, 5%; and for 2007, 3%. This rolling average helps avoid distortions due to certain acquisitions/divestitures and the 
delayed environm ental effects from changes in production.  
7To be conservative, the accumulation of reported cost avoidance from conservation activities in prior years is terminated after seven years, the approximate 
duration of many facility conservation and process -impro vement projects, after which additional process improvements and changes are possible.  
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com /environment -health- safety/ health- and-safety/index.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Health and Safety  
 
Complementing its mission to save and sustain the lives of patients worldwide, Baxter works to ensure the health, safety and well -being 
of its empl oyees. At Baxter, all employees are accountable for safety.  
The company encourages employee health and wellness in and out of the workplace, such as by providing free influenza 
immunizations, subsidizing access to exercise facilities near or on the premise s of some Baxter locations, and promoting balanced 
nutrition. Baxter also is working toward a smoke -free environment at all of its campuses.  
Baxter conducts business worldwide, with more than half of its employees working outside the United States. The com pany ʼs 
operations consist of the following work environments:  
• Manufacturing;  
• Administrative and sales offices;  
• Plasma -donor centers;  
• Research and development;  
• Renal -therapy centers;  
• Pharmacy compounding centers;  
• Warehousing and distribution; and  
• Mobile sal es force. 
Recent trends in Baxter ʼs operations include increasing automation, facility expansions (especially in Asia Pacific), and a growing 
remote workforce. These present distinct workplace hazards and opportunities for improvements related to safety.  
See a summary of performance  in this area during 2011, a description of how Baxter manages  safety  and health and wellness , and 
details about  several programs and initiatives in each area.  
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/ health- and-safety/ performance.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc . All Rights Reserved. 2011 Safety Performance  
In 2011, Baxter experienced a 5% decrease in recordable case rate, a 6% decrease in cases with days lost rate and a 20% increase in 
days lost rate. The increase was primarily due to a small number of  serious injuries  with extensive lost time. The following table 
summarizes Baxter ʼs health and safety performance from 2005 -2011, and includes the companyʼ s 2011 and 2012 internal targets in 
this area, which help keep the company on a course of continual improvement toward achieving its  2015 goa l to Promote a Safe and 
Healthy Workplace . Click on underlined items to view performance graphs with regional and other breakdowns and global rates.  
Indicator  2007  2008  2009  2010  2011  2011 Target  2012 Target  
Recordable Case 
Rate1,2 1.41 1.29 1.07 1.00 0.95 0.97 0.92 
Cases with Days Lost 
Rate1,2 0.25 0.19 0.15 0.17 0.16 0.16 0.15 
Days Lost Rate1,2 5.45 4.23 4.16 4.56 5.47 4.42 5.143 
Restricted Days 
Rate1,2 15.72  19.46  12.68  14.59  13.86  n/a n/a 
Days Away (Lost), 
Restricted or 
Transferred Rate 
(DART)1,2 21.17  23.69  16.84  19.15  19.33  n/a n/a 
Employee/ Contractor 
Serious Incidents (total 
number)4 12/1 8/2 12/2 5/0 12/1 n/a n/a 
Employee/ Contractor 
Fatalities (total 
number)  0/0 0/1 0/06 0/0 1/0 n/a n/a 
Worldwide Workers ʼ 
Compensation Cost 
Estimate (in mil lions)5 $14.9  $14.4  $15.9  $17.8  $18.0  n/a n/a 
1 All rates based on 100 full -time employees working one year, which equals 200,000 work hours. For tracking purposes, Baxter’s position is to follow U.S. 
Occupational Safety and Health Administration recordk eeping requirements worldwide. Thus, in cases where an injury occurs and conflicting medical opinions 
arise as to the number of days away and/or restricted days that should be recorded, Baxter records on the basis of the most authoritative physician’s opin ion. 
2 Recordable cases  – Work -related injuries or illnesses requiring medical attention beyond first -aid, including cases with days lost.  
 Cases with days lost  – Work -related injuries or illnesses that cause an employee to lose at least one full day aft er the date of the incident.  
 Days lost  – The number of days lost (including weekends and holidays) recommended by the most authoritative physician's opinion due to work -related injuries 
or illnesses. Baxter does not count the date of injury and date of r eturn to full duty as lost days.  
  
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/ health- and-safety/ performance.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc . All Rights Reserved.  Restricted days  – The number of days recommended by the most authoritative physician's opinion that an employee or supervised contractor is unable to work 
full duty (including weekends and holidays) due to a work -related injury or illness. Baxter does not count the date of injury and date of return to full duty as 
restricted days.  
 DART  – The combined number of days lost, restricted days and days transferred to another job function (including weekends and holidays) due  to work -related 
injury or illness severe enough to prevent working full -duty. Baxter does not count the date of injury and date of return to full duty in the DART calculation.  
3 2012 target for days lost rate was set higher than 2011 target due to Baxter  not achieving the 2011 target.  
4 Serious workplace incidents are work -related incidents that result in an employee or contractor being hospitalized overnight, sustaining an amputation or dying. 
This designation also includes any employee chemical or radi ation exposure requiring government notification.  
5 Workers’ compensation costs include medical expenses due to work -related injury or illness and a portion of the employee’s salary while disabled. Exact costs 
worldwide are difficult to obtain due to inte rnational privacy laws and public health payment practices for work -related injuries outside of the United States. 
Therefore, Baxter extrapolates global figures based on data from the United States.  
6 In November 2009, a contractor died while performing o n-site dredging of a pond at Baxter's Deerfield, Illinois, United States, headquarters. The Lake County 
medical examiner determined that the individual died of natural causes, and that the death was not work -related. It therefore is not included in this da ta. 
In 2011, Baxter continued to improve its safety performance with respect to recordable cases and cases with days lost rate. The 
increase in the days lost rate primarily was due to a relatively small number of serious injuries requiring extensive recov ery time. 
Focused efforts to address the physical demands of Baxter ʼs Renal Service Specialists resulted in a significant decrease in the number 
of lost workdays for this group, indicating a decrease in the injury severity for these employees. 
Highlights b y region include the following:  
• Asia Pacific  – Performance improved for the recordable case rate by 6% and for the restricted days rate by 38%. The worsening in 
the lost workday case rate (up 50%) resulted from one additional lost workday case. Baxter attr ibutes the worsening in performance 
in the lost workday case rate (up 53%) to gaps in the case management system in the region, which the company is addressing.  
• Europe, Middle East and Africa  – Performance improved for all safety indicators (recordable cas es improved by 13%, lost time 
cases by 40%, lost workdays by 2% and restricted days by 14%). Baxter attributes this to a focus on incident accountability, and 
thorough investigations with mandatory use of A3 reports.1  
 
Baxter is an official partner of the EU Agency for Safety and Health at Workʼ s Healthy Workplaces Campaign 2012 -13, “Working 
Together for Risk Prevention,” which encourages managers, workers and other stakeholders to join forces to improve safety and health.  
• Latin America and Canada  – Althoug h the region experienced improved performance related to recordable cases (improved by 
4%), the region experienced a worsening in the lost workday case rate (up 6%) and days lost rate (up 56%). This was influenced by 
the expansion of non- manufacturing loca tions (primarily new clinics) where immediate implementation of safety management 
systems proved challenging. In this region, Baxter is focusing on risk assessment and the prevention of slips, trips and falls, the 
source of several lost workday cases.  
• North America  – Performance improved for recordable cases by 3%, but worsened for lost workday case rate (up 4%), days lost 
rate (up 21%) and restricted days rate (up 5%). Major contributing factors were the  incident in Los Angeles, California , that resulted 
in significant lost time for affected employees as well as ergonomic injuries in large manufacturing settings.  
• All regions  – The recordable case rate improved by 5% globally, with gains in all regions.  
As in recent years, ergonomic injuries continue to be the primary source of recordable cases, days lost and restricted days (see graph 
below). See  Safety Program Management and Initiatives  for details on the ergonomic strategies Baxter employs to address this ongoing 	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/ health- and-safety/ performance.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc . All Rights Reserved. challenge.  
Although the da ys lost rate increased in 2011, Baxter ʼs overall safety performance since 2005 improved significantly.  
• 38% reduction in recordable case rate 
• 47% decrease in cases with days lost rate  
• 23% reduction in days lost rate  
In a comparison of 13 healthcare companie s reporting global safety data to Mercer (formerly ORC Worldwide) and two healthcare 
companies reporting data on public websites (15 total companies), Baxter ʼs performance ranked third in cases with days lost rate in 
2010, the most recent year industry ben chmarking data were available. Although this placement achieves one of Baxter ʼs 2015 goals, 
maintaining and improving this ranking will require ongoing dedication to continuous improvement in the company ʼs safety systems and 
strategies.  
 
 
  
Analysis of In juries and Illnesses  
Baxter ʼs safety function regularly evaluates the main sources of work -related injuries at the company to identify trends and address 
opportunities for improvement. The following chart shows the sources of recordable injuries and serio us incidents at Baxter in 2011. 
The two major sources for the past seven years (when the company 
began analyzing these data) have been ergonomic issues and slips, trips 
and falls. To address this, Baxter has initiated  focused programs  in each 
of these areas.  
Serious Incidents  
Serious workplace incidents are work -related incidents that result in an 
employee or contractor  being hospitalized overnight, sustaining an 
amputation or dying. This designation also includes any employee 
chemical or radiation exposure requiring government notification.  
When a serious incident occurs, facility management conducts an evaluation and f ollows formal processes and reporting mechanisms to 
share knowledge throughout the company to prevent reoccurrence. 
Baxter ʼs EHS policy also requires regional and business EHS groups to prepare and distribute a report about the incident. In addition, 
safet y personnel discuss each incident with the vice president of EHS and the corporate safety director to evaluate root causes and 
preventive measures.  
Despite the company ʼs focus on safety and strong overall safety performance, Baxter experienced an increase in serious incidents in 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/ health- and-safety/ performance.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc . All Rights Reserved. 2011 compared to 2010. Unfortunately, in one of those serious incidents, a Baxter employee died and two other workers were seriously 
injured. The  investigations  into this matter continue. Since this incident, Baxter has made several program, training and procedural 
changes, and introduced new tools and other steps to further reduce risk. This includes revamped policy guidance,  a comprehensive 
guidance document and regional training which are being deployed in 2012.  
Great Performers  
See a list of Baxter's  Great Health and Safety Performers  in 2011. These facilities completed at least 10 years of work and/or reached 1 
million hours or more (the equivalent of 500 people working for a year) without an occupational injury or illness resulting in days lo st. 
1A3 reports, a Lean manufacturing tool, are one -page summaries of pertinent accident information that can be easily shared and communicated.	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/ health- and-safety/ safety -program -management -and-initiatives.html 
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Safety Program Management and Initiatives  
 
Baxter's safety and industrial hygiene functions establish the comp anyʼs strategies in those areas and sponsor global teams of 
corporate, regional, site and business -unit safety professionals to help refine and implement these approaches. These teams set 
priorities and establish, maintain and continually improve global pr ograms and initiatives.  
Each year the functional teams undertake a strategic planning process, and define short -term targets and long -term goals and the 
tactical plans and resources needed to achieve those. They also provide input to Baxterʼ s Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) 
Leadership Team, made up of EHS directors and other leaders who establish the company ʼs EHS strategy, policy (global EHS 
requirements) and EHS goals . This ensures alignment, engagement and commitment throughout the global EHS organization.  
Baxter applies the Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001 to assess and manage hazards that pose risk 
to employees. An ext ernal auditing and certification body may recommend a facility for certification to OHSAS 18001 following a 
successful corporate EHS audit. As of year -end 2011, 50 Baxter locations were certified to OHSAS 18001. See  EHS Management 
Systems  for more detail.  
Several safety indicators measure safety performance in the company. Recordable case rate and cases with days lost rate are 
integrated into s enior managers' annual performance management objectives and progress on these metrics impacts their 
compensation. Baxter also tracks serious incidents and evaluates each one that takes place, to fully understand the root causes and 
prevent recurrence. The  EHS organization reports employee safety performance to Baxterʼ s senior leadership every other month and to 
Baxter ʼs manufacturing and supply chain management monthly. The EHS organization also communicates this performance to Baxter ʼs 
Board of Directors.  
Enhancing Safety Culture and Performance  
In 2011, Baxter launched a three- pronged approach to enhancing its safety culture and performance, based on a careful review of 
historical performance trends (see graphic).  
 
 
     
 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/ health- and-safety/ safety -program -management -and-initiatives.html 
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Focused injury -reduction strateg ies. Ergonomic exposure continues to cause a significant number of injuries and illnesses at Baxter, 
leading to 22% of the total during 2011. For this reason, the company has a long -term commitment to reduce ergonomic risk and to 
support facilities in rela ted efforts. One of the most effective means of addressing this issue is to build optimal ergonomic design into 
workstations and work tasks. Following an assessment of its resources by an ergonomic consulting firm, Baxter created an ergonomic 
guide for eng ineers and deployed it in multiple languages. This will enable facility teams to incorporate positive ergonomic principles 
into work process designs and improvements.  
For example, Baxter ʼs Renal Home Patient Delivery drivers have a physically demanding job  that must be performed in a variety of 
home settings, which may lead to higher incidence of employee injury. The companyʼ s safety team formed a task force to address this 
group ʼs safety and ergonomic needs, and conducted benchmarking with other companies that deliver large quantities of liquids or 
beverages. Through this project, Baxter identified a program called Safety in Motion™, conducted a pilot, and then implemented the program throughout the group. This training educates employees on simple yet effe ctive techniques to improve posture and balance, 
and reduce risk of injury. This led to a 70% decrease in lost workdays in 2011 for Renal Home Patient Delivery compared to 2010. Although Baxter gained sizable benefits from this program during its first yea r, many ergonomic injuries can develop over a period of 
time, so related gains may take longer to be realized.  
Emphasis on high -hazard sources . Recognizing that serious injuries tend to arise from a specific subset of “high hazards,” Baxterʼ s 
BioScience bu siness unit is piloting a high- hazard management program. This recent evolution of Baxter ʼs hazard identification and risk 
assessment process focuses on proactively identifying these hazards and systematically reducing risk of injury through engineering 
solutions, enhanced operational controls and training.  
The Future State of Safety task force . Launched in late 2011, this group works to identify the steps Baxter must take to advance to 
the next level of safety performance. The multidisciplinary team includ es representatives from all levels of manufacturing operations, 
EHS and various support functions. The team will benchmark with other leading global corporations, and with high -performing Baxter 
sites to identify strategic options. The task force also is s tudying current thought leaders in the safety field to identify the essential 
elements for achieving world -class safety performance.  
Case Management 
Global occupational health case management seeks to obtain care for injured employees from qualified provid ers to improve health 
outcomes and shorten disability time. Effective case management depends on early intervention, appropriate treatment and 
engagement with the injured employee. Focusing on prevention and case management benefits employees -- and helps Baxter 
manage the medical treatment costs of work -related injuries and improve the company ʼs days lost and restricted days performance. 
Proactive case management also allows employees to return to the workplace sooner, enhancing productivity and morale.  
Baxter ʼs occupational health team uses  specific criteria  to define what constitutes a case management program. This area continues to 
be a focus  for Baxter sites to ensure that prompt, effective care is provided if needed. In addition to managing active cases, Baxter has 
conducted quarterly webinars on case management to enhance the expertise of its case management professionals. These meetings feature medical topics of global interest as well as issues aimed at strengthening U.S. workers ʼ compensation claims handling.  
Baxter instituted its formal case management program in 2005. As a result of Baxter's multidisciplinary approach to case management , 
Baxter's actual costs compared to budget since 2005 reflect $9.8 million savings.  
The occupational health team works closely with Baxter Risk Management, onsite safety professionals, Human Resources, and insurance providers to oversee case management. As  a result of Baxterʼ s multidisciplinary approach to work -injury management, the 	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/ health- and-safety/ safety -program -management -and-initiatives.html 
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  company ʼs average incurred cost per claim, determined 18 months after the incident, was 43% lower in 2010 than Baxter ʼs insurance 
provider ʼs client benchmark.1 
View detail rega rding  Baxter's Risk -Based Approach to Occupational Health Case Management . 
Safety Programs and Initiatives  
On an ongoing basis, Baxter analyzes  injury and illness data to identify main sources of injury and risk as well as opportunities for 
improvement and areas of employee need. This has led to performance improvements through various strategies.  
Confined Space 
In 2011, Baxter has continued to s trengthen its training, policy and guidance documents related to permit -required confined spaces.  
Driver Safety 
The use of mobile devices while driving represents a significant distraction risk. To address this, Baxter implemented a “hands -free” 
mobile dev ice policy in 2011 for employees operating vehicles while working. Baxter policy includes all electronic mobile devices, not 
just mobile phones. It requires that mobile devices, if used while driving, are used “hands -free,” and it prohibits texting and usi ng 
computer programs while driving.  
Baxter has approximately 900 employees who drive regularly on business and are considered non -regulated fleet drivers. For this 
group, Baxter considers safety and ergonomics in vehicle selection. In addition, in 2011, Ba xter developed and deployed a U.S. non -
regulated fleet safety policy and guidelines that cover aspects such as safe vehicle use, expected maintenance, and safety oversight 
mechanisms including driving record monitoring.  
Fall Prevention 
Slips, trips and fal ls remain one of the industryʼ s most prevalent causes of injuries and are a leading cause of injury at Baxter. The 
company maintains a dedicated website to house related resources for use by individual facilities. An analytical mapping tool allows 
faciliti es to plot the location of all slips, trips and falls to determine high -risk areas or activities and analyze common causes. Self -
assessment tools and inspection checklists also are available.  
Near-Miss Reporting Programs 
Employee engagement is key to creat ing and maintaining a safe work environment. One effective way to involve employees in safety is 
to encourage them to identify, report and eliminate sources of injury before they cause an incident. This includes reporting near misses, 
which are unplanned e vents, conditions or actions that did not result in injury, illness or damage – but could have. Over the past few 
years, Baxter has implemented near- miss programs throughout the company using a 10- point set of guidance criteria. Facilities are free 
to deve lop their own programs as long as they meet the 10 elements. Sites use various methods to educate employees including 
videos, training courses and display boards. Facilities with very few or no recordable incidents tend to track and trend the number of 
near misses, including those that are fully investigated as if they had caused an injury or incident.  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment- health- safety/ health- and-safety/ safety -program -management -and-initiatives.html 
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Safety Bulletins 
To address common safety concerns identified through internal audits and stakeholder feedback, Baxter developed a new 
communications vehicle in 2011. Safety Bulletins serve as a concise platform to convey critical safety information that can be deployed throughout Baxter in a timely manner. Safety Bulletins released in 2011 covered topics such as material handling, root cause analysis, safe dr iving and safe lifting techniques.  
1Broadspire/Crawford “ Workers’ Compensation & Liability Strategic Outcomes Report” dated September, 2011.	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environmen t-health- safety/ health- and-safety/ health- and-wellness -management -and-initiatives.html 
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Health and Wellness Program Management  
and Initiatives 
Baxter's occupational health function sets the company ʼs strategies related to health and wellness and sponsors a global team of 
corporate, regional, site and business -unit health professionals to help refine and implement these approaches. The team defines 
priorities and establishes, maintains and continually im proves global programs and initiatives. 
Following a yearly strategic planning process, the functional team defines short -term targets and long -term goals and the tactical plans 
and resources needed to achieve those. Additionally, it provides input to Baxte rʼs Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Leadership 
Team, composed of EHS directors and other leaders who establish the companyʼ s EHS strategy, policy (global EHS requirements) 
and EHS goals . This ensures alignment, engagement and commitment throughout the global EHS organization.  
BeWell@Baxter  
Baxter recognizes that healthy employees are more likely to be engaged and productive, and are less vulnerable to safety incidents and 
injuries. Through BeWell@Baxter, the companyʼ s global employee health and wellness effort, Baxter strives to create a culture that 
promotes work -related and personal health, raises awareness about these issues and supports individual a ccountability and 
engagement.  
The cornerstone of BeWell@Baxter is the Personal Wellness Profile, an online health risk assessment that helps employees 
understand how their lifestyle choices, family history and other factors impact their health. The assessm ent provides Baxter with data to 
target facility -level programs based on specific risks and also delivers global aggregate data to identify overall employee health risk and 
needs. Thirty -eight percent of the company ʼs employees worldwide completed a Person al Wellness Profile as of the end of 2011, 
exceeding the goal of 35%.  
Through the program, 43% of Baxter employees were identified as being at -risk of developing diabetes. In response, the company 
launched a year -long campaign to raise employee awareness o f the disease and encourage them to take steps to reduce their risk. As 
part of the program, Baxter introduced an employee website to provide information about risk reduction, dealing with diabetes and helping family members with the disease. Through the B eWell Local Champion team, more than 7,000 employees participated in more 
than 80 diabetes -focused programs worldwide.  
In 2011, the company continued to run two major health -promotion campaigns based on risk factors identified through health risk 
assessmen t. Baxter held the BeWell@Baxter Exercise Challenge in May and encouraged employees to commit to regular exercise. 
Almost 9,000 employees from 104 facilities globally (a 30% increase in facilities from 2010) participated. In November, the company ran a glo bal nutrition campaign to educate employees about healthy eating strategies that could be used year -round. Forty -four percent of 
employees from more than 100 facilities worldwide participated in “Healthy Eating Month” events, many of which involved family 
members.  
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environmen t-health- safety/ health- and-safety/ health- and-wellness -management -and-initiatives.html 
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Other Programs and Initiatives 
Baxter's occupational health team also works to continually improve the company's performance with the following programs and 
initiatives:  
• Flu vaccine – In 2011, Baxter achieved its goal to offer seasonal flu vaccina tion to 100% of employees who work in facilities with 25 
or more employees.  
• Health promotion programs – In 2011, 73% of targeted facilities achieved eight out of 10 health -promotion program criteria, 
exceeding the goal of 65%. The company made progress on its smoke- free workplaces initiative as well, increasing the percentage 
of smoke- free facilities to 88%, from 75% in 2008. All Baxter facilities in Asia Pacific, North America and Latin America are now 
smoke -free. 	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2011 -report/environment -benefit -austria. html 
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Case Study: Employees and the Environment   
Benefit from New Vienna, Austria, Green Building  
High-performance green buildings provide many benefits that enhance employee productivity, 
improve environmental performance and reduce operating expense. To capitalize on these many 
benefits, Baxter has a policy that any new buildings or major renovations of existing structures 
should include an assessment of sustainability aspects including water and energy efficiency, 
possible use of renewable energy, and availability of public transportation. The compa ny is 
incorporating green building design principles at several sites worldwide, and has achieved or is 
working toward U.S. Green Building Council Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) or other similar certifications at numerous locations.  
One example is Baxter's combined laboratory and office facility in Vienna, Austria. The company 
began construction of this site at the end of 2008 and completed it in early 2012. In March 2011, the Baxter -owned facility received LEED Gold certification.  
The four- story, 2,050 square meter structure, which houses about 170 employees, has several innovative features that enhance its 
environmental performance while also providing an outstanding working environment:  
• A green roof reduces the temperature inside the  building on hot, sunny days by up to 15 degrees Celsius and helps to offset the 
'heat island' effect in the city by absorbing and not redirecting energy from the sun.  
• Windows that can open provide natural cooling and increase employee comfort.  
• The buildin g's design, orientation and reflective surfaces illuminate up to 99% of employee areas, using natural daylight, saving 
9,000 kWh of electricity per year.  
• A geothermal cooling system uses the relatively constant temperature of the ground water, as opposed t o traditional heating, 
ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) chiller systems.  
• An ammonia -based chiller, instead of an HFC -based unit, meets additional cooling needs. Ammonia has zero ozone -depleting or 
global warming potential.  
• The building's HVAC energy  recovery system and variable speed drives save 700,000 kWh of electricity per year.  
• Electricity generated by solar photovoltaic panels power the building's LED Baxter sign.  
• Water -saving features include low -flow toilets, which use well water instead of po table water, and low -flow faucets.  
Due to these and other features, the building consumes about 45% less energy and 86% less water than a typical office building of the same size. This decreases the annual operating costs of the building by 33% and saves t he company about $58,000 each year. In 
Addition, all of the electricity used by Baxter in this building and throughout the company's facilities in Austria is generated from 100% certified renewable energy.  
Baxter has also achieved green building certificat ions at facilities in Rome, Italy (LEED Italia Silver in 2011); Lyon, France (BREEAM 
Good in 2011), Zurich, Switzerland (Minergie Plus in 2010), and others. See EHS Management Systems for a summary of Baxter green building certifications. The company plans  to further expand use of green buildings in the coming years.
	  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2011 -report/india -greener -fuel.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Case Study: Facilities in India Switch to Greener  
Boiler Fuel  
Baxter ʼs site in Alathur, India, produces intravenous (IV) solution products. For several years this location used Grade 6 heavy f uel oil 
for both of its boilers to generate steam to support the manufacturing process. In 2011, the facility switched one of its two boilers to a 
“green boiler”, which uses a local biomass fuel – a renewable energy source – instead of fuel oil. The biomas s fuel consists of coconut 
and rice husks as well as sugar cane remnants. During the first five months of use, the converted boiler produced about 16,400 
gigajoules of energy, approximately 26% of the total energy used by the site during this period.  
This initiative has several benefits for Baxter and the community:  
• It contributes to the companyʼ s progress toward its goal to increase facility energy usage of renewable power worldwide to 20%  
(of the total) by 2015.  
• It contributes to Baxterʼ s goal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 45% indexed to revenue from a 2005 baseline. In 2011, the 
boiler decreased the site ʼs GHG emissions from operations by about 1,130 metric tons carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e).1 
• In 2011, the initiative saved the site about $200,000  in energy costs, and had a capital recovery period of eight months.  
• During the first five months of operation, Baxter ʼs purchase and transportation of biomass fuel contributed about $80,000 to the local 
economy.  
"Energy costs contribute significantly to the total cost of the IV fluid bottles we produce at the 
Alathur site," K.R. Shibu, engineering manager at the facility, said. "This has been further impacted 
by steep price hikes in Grade 6 fuel oil in recent years. Switching to renewable biomass fuels ha s 
saved money while also stabilizing energy costs and reducing our environmental impact."  
Also in India, in 2011 Baxter ʼs Waluj facility, which produces IV and Renal solutions products, 
contracted with a third party to own and operate a green boiler on Bax terʼs property. The boiler, 
which began operating in February 2012, uses a locally available renewable energy source, composed of residual biomass material from the sugar cane and cotton industries. This system, which previously used fuel oil, will realize  similar benefits to the green boiler at Baxterʼ s Alathur 
location. It is expected to provide 100% of the siteʼ s steam energy needs while reducing yearly 
GHG emissions by 4,300 metric tons CO2e and saving Baxter about $380,000 annually while 
contributing t o the local economy.  
Including other locations outside of India, Baxter now produces 8% of the energy it consumes worldwide for operations using biomass 
fuels. Given the success of these initiatives, the company is exploring other opportunities to use rene wable energy fuel sources.  
1Following the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, the company reports data for CO ₂ emissions from biologically sequestrated carbon (such as from burning 
biomass/biofuels) separately from its total emissions from operations (Scope 1 and 2) and does not include these emissions in progress against its 2015 GHG 
emissions reduction goal. Se e Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Rev. Edition, Reporting of GHG Emissions, page 63.
	  
http://www.sustai nability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2011 -report/plasma -recycling.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Case Study: Baxter's Los Angeles, California, United 
States, Facility Turns Production Waste into Electricity  
Over the years, Baxte r has reduced regulated waste to the point that many of the company's larger facilities no longer generate 
significant quantities. One of the more significant remaining regulated waste streams, classified as a medical waste, is waste plasma. 
Plasma -based o perations, including plasma processing facilities, generate blood -derived protein wastes that present fewer 
opportunities for source reduction or reuse. 
During 2011, Baxter's Environmental, Health and Safety team at the company's site in Los Angeles, Calif ornia, United States, 
collaborated with an external waste management company to develop a comprehensive waste management program to address this 
waste stream. Reflecting the complexity of this issue, this alliance brought together internal as well as exter nal experts in the 
manufacturing, environmental and regulatory fields. The objectives of the initiative are to minimize impact to the environment, sustain 
resources, and ensure regulatory compliance and employee safety. This effort supports the facility's broader aspiration to become a 
"zero waste site."  
The plasma paste, which had previously been classified as biohazardous medical waste, autoclaved and then disposed of in a landfill, 
is now sent to the East Bay Municipal Utility District in Oakland, Califo rnia. The site uses a multiple -stage process to remove biosolids 
from the water and then "digest," or break down the remaining materials using microbes in an anaerobic digester. This process generates methane gas, which is used as an energy source to meet 90% of the wastewater treatment plant's energy needs (including 
the energy derived from non -Baxter waste sources). Surplus electricity is directed back to the local electrical utility grid.  
In addition to the plasma paste itself, related Baxter waste strea ms including waste albumin and 24% alcohol solution not sent to the 
site's alcohol recovery still are processed in the digester and therefore no longer are considered waste but rather material for reuse. After centrifuges remove water from the remaining di gested biosolids, the residual materials are recycled as fertilizer for use on non -
food crop agricultural fields.  
Other materials such as plastic bottles and bags that hold the plasma paste, as well as other plastics that have contact with these 
materials,  are drained, shredded or reground, and then recycled into reusable plastics, as opposed to previously being sent to a landfill.  
In 2012, about 1,000 metric tons of material from the Los Angeles site that would have previously been disposed as medical wast e will 
instead be reused or recycled. This will produce useful materials and generate nearly an estimated 80,000 kWh of energy.  
These efforts build on a plasma recycling initiative introduced at Baxter's Vienna, Austria, site in 2003. After consultation wi th a local 
university, the site established a partnership with a nearby dairy to share funding to purchase, install and operate a digester that 
processes plasma paste along with animal manure. This creates methane gas used to power an electrical generation  unit. In 2011, the 
site sent more than 700 metric tons of protein waste to the digester plant.   
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/index.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Product Responsibility 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baxter develops, manufactures and markets products for people with hemophilia, immune disorders, 
infectious diseases, kidney disease, trauma, and other chronic and acute medical conditions. The company's 
products are i nfused, injected or inhaled more than two billion times annually, to treat life -threatening acute or 
chronic conditions.  
While delivering products that save or sustain lives, Baxter also works to address environmental and social issues across the product 
life cycle. These efforts range from focusing on sustainable design and bioethics during research and development, to efficient use of 
energy and materials during manufacturing and transport, to appropriate product advertising and promotion, and finally, re sponsible 
repair, refurbishment and recycling at product end -of-life. 
In combination with its history of innovation, Baxter has programs to ensure high standards in quality, safety and product integrity.  
The following graphic illustrates the breadth and de pth of Baxter's approach.  
 
 
 
 
 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/index.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Sustainability I ssues Across the Product Life C ycle 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
   
 
     
 
   
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/index.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.   
    
 
    
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
    
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/quality.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Righ ts Reserved.  Quality  
Every day, Baxter products make the difference between life and death for millions of patients worldwide. The company ‘ s reputation 
and ongoing success depend on the quality of Baxter‘ s products and services. Therefore, uncompromising dedication to quality is a 
guiding principle of the company's culture and is among its  shared  values . 
Baxter‘ s global quality management system (called "1QSys" for "one quality system") provides a single, global Baxter -wide standard 
for quality. 1QSys offers a consistent approach to managing quality acr oss the product life cycle, including design, development, 
manufacturing, sterilization, labeling, packaging, distribution and promotion. 1QSys helps to address the complexities of managing 
across interconnected businesses, regions and manufacturing operat ions, enhancing the company's ability to meet quality standards 
and adapt to changes in a complex regulatory environment.  
Baxter regularly evaluates and reviews its quality management system to identify and correct issues that may affect product and 
servic e quality, and pursues continuous improvement through a range of data -driven methodologies. One focus is simplifying 
processes, which increases efficiency and prevents potential quality issues from occurring.  
Baxter also assesses its suppliers of raw mater ials, components and finished goods to track and enhance their performance in this 
area. After products are launched, the company executes post -market surveillance to monitor the safety, efficacy and quality of 
products while in use. See  Safety  for more for more information.  
When Baxter identifies a potential quality or safety issue with one of its products or determines that products manufactured or 
marketed by the company  do not meet company specifications, published standards or regulatory requirements, it investigates and 
takes appropriate preventative and corrective actions. This may include providing notice to the customer of revised labeling, 
correction of the problem  at the customer location, withdrawal of the product from the market and/or other actions. See Safety  for 
detail.  
Baxter takes any self -identified quality or safety issues  or finding by regulatory authorities very seriously, and establishes 
comprehensive plans to address the specific findings. As these plans are executed, Baxter also evaluates the identified corrective 
actions to determine if it might leverage the improveme nts on a broader basis.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/safety.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Safety  
Patient safety is at the core of everything Baxter does. The company was founded in 1931 on its ability to produce safe intravenous 
(IV) solutions for hospitals at a time when most hospitals were not equipped to prepa re their own.  
Today, Baxter focuses on safety across the product life cycle, from product development and enhancements, to post -market research 
and via pharmacovigilance and post -market surveillance. The company also collaborates with hospitals to assess their processes to 
address patient safety, and partners with customers and third -parties to develop patient and clinician educational materials and raise 
safety standards worldwide. This section includes examples of these efforts as well as other ways the c ompany enhances patient 
safety worldwide: 
• Supporting  Reduction  of Pathogens  
• Focusing on Decreasing  Medication  Errors 
• Addressing Parenteral  Nutrition  Safety  
• Complying  with Government  Regulations  
• Addressing Product  Safety  Issue s 
Supporting Reduction of Pathogens  
In 1971, Baxter introduced the first flexible, plastic IV bag. As the first “closed system” IV container, the bag does not require venting 
during administration. This keeps the solution from contacting outside air, help ing to minimize contamination.  
Despite evidence that use of closed systems can reduce pathogens, many hospitals, particularly in developing countries, continue to 
use open systems. The compatibility of the Baxter IV System with both infusion pump therapy a nd gravity applications can help 
nurses maintain a closed IV system that meets safety standards for IV replacement1. Baxter’s IV Standard Set Closed System can 
reduce the number of set -ups and teardowns which can decrease the risk of touch contamination2. 
Baxter works with governments and healthcare providers to help conduct studies, set standards and implement conversion to closed 
IV systems in numerous markets to improve public health. For example, Baxter worked with the government of Brazil, which now 
requires all of the country's nearly 8,000 hospitals to use closed IV systems, to convert to closed systems throughout the country. In 
Colombia, where the government now recommends closed systems, approximately 75% of hospitals have converted. In 2010, Baxte r 
worked with four Ministry of Health -affiliated hospitals in Mexico to implement closed systems.  
In 2008, Baxter launched the V -LINK with VitalShield protective coating device, the first needle- less IV connector with an antimicrobial 
coating. In vitro tes ting has shown that the device killed at least 99.99% of six common pathogens known to cause catheter -related 
bloodstream infections, including MRSA. The reduction in colonization or microbial growth on the device has not been shown to 
correlate with a reduction in infections. The antimicrobial agent is not intended to be used as a treatment for existing infections. 
VitalShield protective coating is contraindicated in patients with hypersensitivity to silver or silver components.  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/safety.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Focusing on Decreasing Medi cation Errors  
The Institute of Medicine in the United States estimates that medication errors injure 1.5 million people each year, and that 7,000 die 
annually as a result.3 Other research shows even more severe mortality statistics in other countries.  
Baxter helps address potential medication errors in several ways. The company's premixed IV drugs are ready to use so hospital 
pharmacists do not have to prepare these critical drugs themselves. Baxter was the first company to work with other pharmaceutical 
firms to premix their drugs in IV solution, and is the only manufacturer of frozen premixed drugs for compounds that are not stable at 
room temperature.  
For IV drugs that must be administered in a very specific dose or have other special requirements, Baxter  operates pharmacy 
compounding centers in some countries. Hospital pharmacies transmit prescriptions electronically to the Baxter compounding center, 
where pharmacists and technicians prepare patient -specific doses under sterile conditions and deliver them  to the hospital ready for 
administration. In August 2011, for example, Baxter partnered with Cho Ray Hospital in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, to establish a 
center for compounding IV therapy, the first of such a facility to be located in a Vietnam hospital.  The new Vietnam IV Admixture (VIVA) 
Center is dedicated to compounding IV chemotherapy for about 80 patients a day.  
Baxter also continues to improve product packaging and labeling to help reduce the potential for medication errors. The company 
was the fir st to develop a readable bar code for clear, flexible IV bags, which present challenges for conventional bar -code 
technology. 
In April 2012 Baxter completed its purchase of SIGMA International General Medical Apparatus, LLC (SIGMA). SIGMA develops and 
manu factures smart infusion pump technology including the Spectrum large volume pump (LVP), which provides advanced safety and 
clinician- friendly features. The Spectrum smart infusion system features Dose Error Reduction Software with hospital -defined Drug 
Libraries including dosing limits and clinical advisories. When a clinician programs an infusion, the software verifies that the dose 
meets facility -determined parameters. If the programmed infusion is outside of the pre -determined dosing limits, the pump wil l alert 
the clinician before the infusion begins. In conjunction with the SIGMA transaction, Baxter acquired SIGMA’s product development 
pipeline, which includes a platform of multiple infusion technologies with advanced safety feature capabilities. Within  the pipeline is a 
syringe infusion pump that has been submitted to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for review and clearance. The 510(k) is 
pending and the pump is currently for available for sale in the U.S. Syringe pumps are small infusion pu mps used to deliver more 
precise amounts of IV medications and fluids to patients.  
Baxter's Medical Products business also helps hospitals through its Connections Portfolio, which focuses on three key principles - 
simplification, streamlining and standardi zation. These programs, administered by Baxter clinical experts, are based on objective 
observational, interviewing, and data collection methodology that identify opportunities for improvement in practice and product 
utilization. In addition, the clinical offerings help to increase staff productivity and patient safety and includes specific 
recommendations and action plans to improve alignment with nationally recognized regulations, standards and guidelines. In 2011, 
Baxter launched the Tubing Misconnection s Self -Assessment for Healthcare Facilities, designed to help institutions identify products 
and practices that pose a risk of inadvertent tubing misconnections. The objectives are to:  
• Identify and prioritize devices and practices vulnerable to tubing misc onnections,  
• Establish processes and device selection protocols to safeguard against misconnections.  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/safety.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Addressing Parenteral Nutrition Safety  
Parenteral nutrition (PN), commonly referred to as IV nutrition, is one way that people receive nutrition when they c annot eat. Instead, 
nutrition is supplied through an IV tube inserted directly into the veins. The amount, type, and method of nutrition are tailored to each 
patient to meet their nutritional needs. Preparing and delivering this type of nutrition involves complex sterile preparations which must 
be performed in a carefully controlled environment with quality control measures in place from prescription to formulation and 
delivery. When these quality control measures are not in place, product sterility, stabil ity and compatibility can be impacted, 
potentially putting patients at risk.  
In September 2011, leaders from several major safety associations came together to organize a PN Safety Summit. Baxter, a leading 
maker of PN therapies, sponsored the summit, host ed by the American Society for Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition (ASPEN). At the 
event, experts in clinical nutrition discussed safety issues surrounding PN and developed recommendations for improvement, 
including increased standardization of prescription p rocesses, order review and verification and formulation processing, as well as 
additional education for PN prescribers.  
One of the safety issues covered was the ongoing shortage of vitamins, electrolytes and other IV nutrition ingredients that has critical ly 
impacted hospitals nationwide. A 2011 study by the American Hospital Association found that 89% of U.S. hospitals have 
experienced nutrition product shortages. Further, drug shortages within a six -month period led to 58% of patients requiring IV 
nutriti on receiving a nutritional formulation that may not have addressed all of their nutritional needs and 32% experiencing an adverse 
outcome4. Organizations such as ASPEN and Baxter are working to address these shortages to ensure patients continue to receive  
the life -sustaining therapies they need. 
Complying with Government Regulations  
Baxter's operations and products are subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental agencies worldwide. In the United 
States, the federal agencies that regulate the c ompany's facilities, operations, employees, products (their manufacture, sale, import 
and export) and services include: the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA), the Environmental 
Protection Agency (EPA), the Occupational H ealth and Safety Administration (OSHA), the Department of Agriculture (USDA), the 
Department of Labor, the Department of Defense (DOD), Customs and Border Protection (CBP), the Department of Commerce, the 
Department of Treasury and others. Because Baxter s upplies products and services to healthcare providers that are reimbursed by 
federally funded programs such as Medicare, the company’s activities are also subject to regulation by the Center for 
Medicare/Medicaid Services and enforcement by the Department of Health and Human Services. State agencies also regulate the 
facilities, operations, employees, products and services of the company within their respective states.  
Outside the United States, Baxter products and operations are subject to extensive regula tion by governmental agencies, including 
the European Medicines Agency in the European Union. International governmental agencies also regulate public health, product 
registration, manufacturing, environmental conditions, labor, imports, exports and other aspects of the company's global operations.  
The FDA, as well as other governmental agencies worldwide, administers requirements covering the testing, safety, effectiveness, 
manufacturing, labeling, promotion and advertising, distribution and post -market su rveillance of Baxter's products. The company 
must obtain approval or clearance from the FDA before it can market and sell its products in the United States. Other countries have 
similar pre-  and post -market registration requirements. Even after the company  obtains regulatory approval to market a product, the 
product and the company's manufacturing processes are subject to continued review by regulatory authorities.  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/safety.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Addressing Product Safety Issues  
When Baxter identifies a potential quality or safety issue w ith one of its products or determines that products manufactured or 
marketed by the company do not meet company specifications, published standards or regulatory requirements, it investigates and 
takes appropriate corrective action, such as notification of revised labeling, correction of the problem at the customer location, 
withdrawal of the product from the market and/or other actions.  
For example, Baxter's COLLEAGUE Volumetric Infusion Pump is an electronic device that controls the flow of IV drugs to pa tients. In 
2005, Baxter notified customers of several issues that had the potential to disrupt the delivery of therapy and placed a hold on 
shipments of new pumps until these problems could be corrected. The FDA classified this as a Class 1 recall, the mos t serious type of 
recall, with potential for death and injury. In June 2006, Baxter announced a consent decree with the FDA under which the company 
pursued remediation of the pumps.  
Additional Class 1 recalls related to remediation and repair and maintenan ce activities of COLLEAGUE infusion pumps were 
addressed by the company in 2007 and 2009. Pursuant to the consent decree, in July 2010, the FDA ordered removal of all 
COLLEAGUE infusion pumps in the United States by July 14, 2012. Baxter has been executing  the removal these pumps, offering 
eligible customers a refund or an option to replace them.  
In December 2010, Baxter informed the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) and other EU Authorities that 
endotoxins had been detected in some  batches of its peritoneal dialysis (PD) solutions manufactured at its Castlebar, Ireland facility. 
In PD patients, endotoxins can potentially cause an inflammatory reaction known as sterile peritonitis. While only a very small 
proportion of bags were likely to contain endotoxins, these could not be identified. In response to this finding, Baxter shut down 
production of the solutions at this plant to investigate the problem, and the European Medicines Agency (EMA) recommended that all 
potentially affected P D solutions be withdrawn as soon as replacement product became available to meet patients’ need. The 
company worked closely with EMA and its Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) to ensure the production of 
endotoxin -free PD solutions. In O ctober 2011 following its inspection of the Castlebar site, the Irish Medicine board confirmed the 
reinstatement of the facility’s good manufacturing practice status, authorizing it to resume the release of PD solution products.  
Additional details on regul atory matters currently being addressed by the company are available under the heading "Certain 
Regulatory Matters" in Baxter’s most recent filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 10 -Q. Details on 
product liability, patent, commerci al and other legal matters currently being addressed by Baxter are available in the note to the 
company’s consolidated financial statement entitled “Legal Proceedings” in Baxter’s most recent SEC filing on Form 10 -Q. 
The devices referenced within are Rx on ly. For safe and proper use of all devices please refer to the complete Instructions for Use.  
1 O’Grady NP, Alexander M, Dellinger EP, et al. Guidelines for the Prevention of Intravascular Catheter -Related Infections. Infection Control Hosp Epidemiol. 
2002 Dec;23 (12):759 -69.O’Grady NP, Alexander M, Dellinger EP, et al. Guidelines for the Prevention of Intravascular Catheter -Related Infections. Infection 
Control Hosp Epidemiol. 2002 Dec;23 (12):759 -69. 
2 Raad I, Hanna HA, Awad A, et. Al. Optimal Frequency o f Changing Intravenous Administration Sets: Is it safe to prolong use beyond 72 hours? Infection Control 
Hosp Epidemiol. 2001 Mar;22 (3):136- 39. 
3 Preventing Medication Errors," Institute of Medicine, July 2006.  
4 ISMP Medication Safety Alert. April 7, 201 1 Vol. 16, Issue 7.  
 
 	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/product -integrity.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter Intern ational Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Product Integrity  
Counterfeit and/or adulterated medical products pose growing risks to patient safety worldwide. Maintaining product integrity is a 
complex and multifaceted challenge, encompassing an array of supply chain, product d esign and packaging, and risk management 
strategies.  
Baxter launched a formal, global product integrity program in 2008 to safeguard the company’s products from the threat of 
counterfeiting or adulteration. The company’s diverse product portfolio is manufa ctured in 27 countries and sold in more than 100 
countries globally, and ranges in complexity from basic intravenous solutions to highly -specialized biologic derived therapies. Baxter’s 
product integrity measures take into account the differing levels of c omplexity and risk associated with individual products and 
markets.  
The company has conducted a series of risk assessments, examining economic incentives, supply chain and product complexity, and 
other factors that may contribute to this issue. Based on th at analysis, Baxter prioritized certain product lines and geographies for 
piloting and implementing various product authentication and security measures.  
 
 
 
 
Risk Assessment and Ongoing Monitoring  
Economic realities, manufacturing processes and supply cha in dynamics vary considerably by product and market. Accordingly, the 
risk profile associated with a particular product can present distinct challenges. Baxter has conducted an extensive review of its 
product portfolio and geographic presence to assess the  level of risk associated with individual products by market. The highest 
priority products and markets were earmarked for initial implementation of various product integrity measures, including multiple 
layers of product packaging features and serializati on using GS1 standards, the most widely used supply chain standards system in 
the world. The GS1 information standards organization is dedicated to the design and implementation of global standards and 
solutions to improve the efficiency and visibility of supply and demand chains globally and across sectors. 
Because changing economics, shifting political climates, new technologies and other world events can impact risk levels, the risk 
assessment process must be dynamic and informed by ongoing monitoring an d information sharing among law enforcement and 
regulatory officials and industry players. In addition to these broader trends, Baxter monitors for patterns or anomalies within its own 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/product -integrity.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter Intern ational Inc. All Rights Reserved.  pharmacovigilance, adverse event reporting and customer order systems to spot and investigate potential events or product issues 
that may have resulted from or suggest adulteration or wrong -doing.  
Supply Chain Measures  
Maintaining a secure supply chain, all the way from Baxter to the end user of the product, is essential to e nsuring product integrity. 
Direct selling and sole source agreements are one way the company can retain control and/or visibility of the product for much of its 
route. Baxter regularly monitors customer purchasing data and trends and has terminated or chan ged customer relationships after 
detecting actions that jeopardize supply chain integrity (e.g. resale of product, unexplained spikes or changes in ordering behavior 
that would suggest diversion). Baxter’s sales contracts include restrictions that support supply chain transparency and control, 
including restrictions in some markets regarding the destruction of product packaging.  
Additionally, the company was an early adopter of GS1 standards including the Global Trade Item Number (GTIN). A GTIN is a unique 
identification number tagged to a product that provides the link between the item and the information pertaining to it. GS1 standards 
are used to uniquely distinguish all products, trade items, logistic units, locations, assets, and relationships in the su pply chain— from 
manufacturer to consumers. Baxter believes that global adoption of GS1 standards will facilitate greater use technologies that can 
help ensure that products are moved correctly and efficiently throughout the supply chain. Ultimately, adopti on of these standards can 
help enable healthcare professionals to verify they are administering the right product to the right patient at the right time.  
Collaboration with Officials and Industry Partners  
Baxter collaborates with regulatory and public heal th officials and industry experts on an ongoing basis to share intelligence, insights 
and experience regarding the integrity of products and supply chain. Groups such as GS1, Pharmaceutical Security Institute, 
Parenteral Drug Association and Rx360 have fac ilitated exchange of industry expertise and collaboration with regulatory authorities to 
develop and raise standards, drive voluntary adoption of new processes and technologies, and implement new measures to advance 
product integrity and protect patients a nd clinicians.  
Product Packaging and Design 
Over the last several years, Baxter has implemented several enhancements to product and container design and labeling to enable 
and expand product authentication and the ability to identify tampering. These measu res may include multiple levels of closure and 
packaging, elaborate closure systems and the use of unique materials. Due to the openness of global trade and the increasing 
sophistication of counterfeiters, companies must vary their approaches and continue to evolve specific technologies or materials 
used.  
Preventing and overcoming the many threats to product integrity that exist today and will arise in the future requires a comprehensive 
approach that incorporates many elements. Industry -wide, global adopti on of GS1 standards are important building blocks in securing 
the supply chain. Baxter looks forward to expanding its implementation of the GS1 standards, furthering its product integrity efforts 
and driving greater security and efficiency in the delivery of our products to healthcare providers and patients around the world. 	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/research -development -design/product -sustainability- review.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Product Sustainability Review  
The design stage offers a unique opportunity to shape a product's environmental, health and safety (EHS) performance across the life 
cycle. During this ph ase, decisions are made regarding materials selection, characteristics including energy use that influence carbon 
footprint, features that affect recyclability, and other factors.  
For this reason, Baxter includes Product Sustainability Review (PSR) during the early stages of the product development process. 
PSR is a two -step assessment of a product’s projected EHS impacts. An initial screen at the product concept phase reveals high -level 
sustainability risks and opportunities in areas such as regulations an d customer and other stakeholder requirements (see graphic).  
The second step is a comprehensive review that identifies improvement opportunities across the life cycle. This process includes life 
cycle assessment -related computer modeling of a proposed prod uct, and may involve comparison to existing products. Designers 
use this assessment to inform material choices and evaluate product end -of-life options and other factors. Baxter uses these results 
to confirm product feasibility, help establish product requ irements and minimize potential product impacts to human health and the 
environment.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PSR has historically focused on medical devices, ranging from intravenous solution containers to dialysis machines, reflecting the 
greater potential environm ental impact of these compared to other Baxter products. Since 2005, Baxter has used PSR to evaluate all 
new medical devices reaching the concept stage of development (more than 15 products so far), and currently has several devices 
under review.  
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/research -development -design/product -sustainability- review.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  In 2011, the company continued to expand use of PSR to therapeutics products in its BioScience business. Beginning in 2012, the 
product development process for these products will include a requirement to conduct a PSR. When fully implemented, nearly all new 
products Baxter introduces will complete the PSR process. 
PSR also provides a process to integrate compliance considerations for existing and upcoming product regulations.1 In 2008, Baxter 
enhanced the PSR screen for toxic chemicals, and updates this screen peri odically to reflect changes in regulation and other factors. 
This enhancement helps the company meet growing customer demands to limit these substances and also helps Baxter prepare for 
potential chemical restrictions under the European Union REACH (Regist ration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemical 
substances) regulation. Through the PSR process, requirements regarding materials selection are documented in the product design 
history file. See  Case  Study:  Materials  Restrictions  for more information about Baxter’s approach related to product materials.  
PSR has yielded positive results. Several reviews have influenced materia ls selection, and Baxter requires that all new machines under 
development meet the European Union Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Directive restrictions regarding heavy metals. 
Even though these products are currently exempt, medical devices wil l fall under the scope of the revised RoHS Directive in 2014. 
Recent reviews also stipulate that new product designs should limit the use of "Substances of Very High Concern" as listed under 
REACH regulation.  
Life Cycle Assessment 
Supplementing PSR, Baxter  also uses formal life cycle assessment (LCA) to evaluate the environmental performance of its products 
and determine ways to reduce environmental footprint. This may include decreasing the presence of chemicals of concern and 
reducing life cycle water or energy consumption, carbon footprint and waste generation.  
During 2011, Baxter used LCA to take environmental impacts into account in the development of its next -generation home 
hemodialysis system.  
In 2010, Baxter undertook a streamlined LCA that compared  two generations of dialyzer products2 to evaluate how material changes 
affect environmental performance. The company’s new family of XENIUM+ dialyzers is 13 -22 percent lighter than earlier versions, 
which offers the potential for reduced fuel consumption in shipping and biohazard waste removal. XENIUM+ dialyzers also use 
approximately one -third less cardboard in their packaging, reducing natural resource use and waste removal requirements. Also, all 
materials used in XENIUM+ are free of bisphenol -A. In 201 1, the product received certification from the Carbon Trust Footprinting 
Certification Company, the second medical product to receive this certification (FLEXBUMIN, see below, was the first).  
In 2009, Baxter completed several externally verified LCAs demon strating the significant environmental benefits of FLEXBUMIN 
[Albumin (Human)] - the first and only human albumin3 solution in a flexible, plastic container - compared to a similar product in a glass 
bottle. In addition to enhancing convenience for custome rs and users, the FLEXBUMIN container system has a 55 -77% smaller 
carbon footprint, depending on product size and geography. (See  Case  Study:  FLEXBUMIN Life Cycle  Assessment  for more detail).  
Engaging with Customers  
Customers in Europe and the United States increasingly require information related to product environmental performance in requests 
for proposal and consider that information in vendor selection. Baxter reflects these requirements in the PSR process, such as the 
need to avoid certain chemicals of concern. The company responds to targeted customer requests and engages with customers as 	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/research -development -design/product -sustainability- review.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  appropriate to share information about products. Baxt er also provides access to a searchable database of Materials Safety Data 
Sheets for all relevant products, in more than 25 languages. 
Similarly, governments increasingly set environmental criteria for "greener" public procurement. For example, nearly all tenders in the 
United Kingdom include EHS -related questions. Throughout all of Europe, EHS -related questions can represent up to 20% of the total 
weighting of tenders.  
Representatives from Baxter’s EHS and Supply Chain teams met with diverse audiences acro ss the company during 2011 to provide 
background about the evolving customer landscape, as well as related regulatory trends, and how to best respond to these emerging 
information needs and legislation. Building on this, in 2012 meetings are planned on the se issues with each Baxter franchise globally 
as well as the company’s Research and Development organization.  
Baxter believes that leadership in this area will represent an increasing source of competitive advantage, and proactively 
communicates information about product environmental performance. Recent examples include:  
• Baxter has continued the global marketing roll -out of FLEXBUMIN [Albumin (Human)], which is the world’s first medical product to 
receive Carbon Reduction certification from the Carbon Trus t (in 2009, re -certified in early 2012).  
• In 2011, Baxter also received Carbon Trust certification for Baxter’s new family of XENIUM+ synthetic dialyzers.  
This year, Baxter plans to highlight the enhanced environmental performance of an additional new produ ct at launch.  
1 Such as the European Union's Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Directive, REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of 
Chemical substances) Regulation, Energy -using Products (EuP) Directive, and Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) Directive.  
2 Dialyzers are filters used during hemodialysis to eliminate waste products from the blood of people with end -stage kidney disease.  
3 Human albumin, which is an essential protein found in human plasma, is used to treat critically ill patients by replacing lost fluid and maintaining adequate 
blood pressure and volume.	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/prod uct-responsibility/research -development -design/bioethics.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Bioethics 
At Baxter, bioethics covers a range of issues, including Animal Welfare, Clinical Trials, genetically modified organisms and the cloning 
and use of hu man embryos. The company's Bioethics Policy  includes Baxter's Bioethics Guiding Principles that address topics such 
as product safety and efficacy, stakeholder concerns, risk -benefit analysis, legal and regulatory compliance, vendor conformance to 
Baxter's standards, clinical trials, animal welfare and biodiversity. Baxter's senior leadership considers these principles, in addition to 
the advice of scientific and  ethical advisors, to determine whether to proceed in areas requiring consideration of bioethical issues. To 
be justified, the potential benefits to individual subjects and society must be equal to or exceed possible risks. 
For more information, see Baxter 's Bioethics Position Statements .	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/research -development -design/animal -welfare.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter I nternational Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Animal Welfare  
Baxter supports the conscientious use of animals in research only when no ot her acceptable scientific alternative exists to 
demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the company's life saving and sustaining products and therapies. Baxter believes that it 
has an ethical responsibility to ensure the well being and humane care of a nimals it uses in product development and testing. In the 
substantial majority of cases where Baxter uses animal testing, it is required by health authorities to do so.  
Consistent with Baxter's Bioethics Position Statement , the company is committed to using and developing alternative protocols, 
methodologies and models which reduce or replace the use of animals. Baxter also works to refine current test systems to improve animal  welfare while ensuring sound data. For decades, the company has supported pre -clinical testing involving humane animal use 
that complies with all relevant local, national and transnational laws and regulations (as verified by regular inspections by the respective authorities/agencies) as well as additional voluntary guidelines . 
Veterinary professionals with specialty trai ning operate Baxter's research animal facilities, which are overseen by Animal Care and Use 
Committees as well as local authorities. These Animal Care and Use Committees review research and testing protocols to ensure that 
they are appropriately designed, that the information derived is essential and full consideration is given to animal welfare. Baxter's 
animal research facilities are fully accredited by the Association for the Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care 
International (AAALAC), which evaluates organizations that use animals in research, teaching or testing. In the United States, the 
company's facilities are registered and inspected regularly by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and are in compliance with Public Health Ser vice Policy as governed by the Office of Laboratory Animal Welfare of the U.S. Department of Health and Human 
Services. Outside the United States, Baxter's animal facilities and programs are regularly inspected by relevant government agencies 
and comply wi th all applicable laws and regulations.  
All animals used within Baxter’s research facilities are from sources that Baxter's veterinary professionals select carefully and monitor 
regularly. Contract research organizations that Baxter uses to assess the safe ty of its medical products must follow similar animal care 
and welfare standards, and are reviewed as part of Baxter's overall quality and regulatory compliance program.  
Baxter’s Global Animal Welfare Committee 
Baxter's Global Animal Welfare Committee (GAW C) is composed of internal veterinary professionals and animal scientists whose 
goals are to enhance current programs and to identify and develop new opportunities to optimize animal welfare. The committee is 
sponsored by the company's Chief Science and In novation Officer Norbert G. Riedel, PhD, and oversees standards of animal welfare 
across Baxter's global operations and contract research organizations including academic institutions.  
The GAWC focuses on:  
• Further developing and implementing programs that will advance the 3Rs (replace, reduce and refine), and other animal use 
initiatives;  
• Encouraging the identification, investigation and validation of alternative test methods when opportunities exist and regulations 
permit;  
• Setting universal standards of a nimal care and welfare across all Baxter animal research sites and external collaborators;  
• Reviewing Baxter’s animal use, animal welfare programs, and related policies and standards regularly; and  
• Updating internal animal welfare education and training pro grams.  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/research -development -design/animal -welfare.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter I nternational Inc. All Rights Reserved.  The committee provides ongoing assessment and support of Baxter's animal testing programs to harmonize processes and tools 
globally. The committee's recommendations are guided by the Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International's system of program accreditation.  
Committee members participate in leading professional organizations where they receive continuing education and share best practices. Examples include:  
United States  
• Academy of Surgical Research  
• America n Association for Laboratory Animal Science  
• American College of Laboratory Animal Medicine  
• American Society of Laboratory Animal Practitioners  
• Council on Research for American Veterinary Medical Association  
Europe 
• The European Partnership for Alternative A pproaches to Animal Testing  
• Society for Laboratory Animal Science; 
• Federation of European Laboratory Animal Science Associations  
International  
• The Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International  
• The International Associ ation of Bioethics  
Replace, Reduce and Refine  
Baxter is committed to enhancing animal welfare through the 3Rs - replacement, reduction and refinement. The company applies a 
range of innovations in this area, including several implemented in 2011 as noted i n the lists below.  
Replacement  
Baxter implements new technologies and processes to substitute animal with non -animal tests.  
• For both new product development and established products, Baxter is replacing animal safety testing with cell -based alternative 
in vitro1 methods where regulations will allow. In vitro test systems are being validated and registered, which will substantially 
reduce the use of animals for in -process and final product quality release tests.  
• Building upon its expertise in developing cell -based methods of vaccine production, Baxter is using its proprietary cell line system 
with next -generation production methods which do not require large quantities of fertilized chicken eggs.  
• When permitted, Baxter uses cell -based tests to determine the a ntibody content for specific antibody -based products. For 
example, for its liquid immune globulin intravenous (IGIV) products that help people with compromised immune systems fight 
disease, Baxter has replaced animal -based potency testing with a cell -based test, recently approved in the United States.  
• Baxter uses thromboelastography (a non- animal, in -vitro test to assess blood clotting) to assess how quickly clots form on new 
products designed to stop bleeding. This screening test helps to minimize the numb er of animals needed for efficacy studies.  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/research -development -design/animal -welfare.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter I nternational Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Reduction  
When Baxter is required to conduct animal testing, researchers use enhanced data collection and analysis methods to reduce overall 
animal use.  
• In 2011, Baxter further reduced the number of animals used  in quality testing of certain biotherapeutic drugs and vaccines.  
• In 2011, Baxter increased the amount of information collected per animal that reduced the number of animals necessary to fulfill 
specific regulatory requirements. 
• When feasible, Baxter uses  automated blood sampling techniques and enhanced analytics to ensure high -quality samples every 
time which reduces animal procedures per study and related animal stress.  
• Baxter uses non -invasive, state -of-the-art technologies such as CT scans, fluorescen t imaging, advanced ultrasound and 
fluoroscopy to decrease the need for invasive testing.  
• As new testing methods become available, methods must be validated and approved in cooperation with government regulators 
prior to medical use of the product. Baxter adopts new, approved methods, applies new testing models and thereby reduces 
animal testing wherever possible. For example, Baxter is investigating strategies to reduce intermediate test steps using the 
rabbit pyrogen (fever -producing) test, and when possi ble combines lot runs to minimize the use of control test animals used in a 
number of product safety and potency tests.  
• Baxter uses a combination of animal based toxicology, pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and local irritation tests to minimize 
animal use,  where possible.  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
1 In-vitro tests are performed on individual cells in a lab environment versus in a living organism
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/research -development -design/clinical -trials.html 
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Clinical Trials  
Clinical trials play an essential role in the development of new medical products and are a legally re quired part of the research process 
for many Baxter products. Baxter protects the safety, well -being and privacy of clinical trial participants, as well as the completeness 
and integrity of data obtained from these studies. The company is committed to shar ing results from its clinical trials with the scientific 
and medical community and the broader public via publications in peer -reviewed journals, presentations at scientific and medical 
conferences, as well as postings on U.S. Food and Drug Administration or European Medicines Agency -authorized public 
repositories. Baxter's Clinical Trials Policy defines the requirements for clinical trials, studies and investigations involving human 
subjects that use investigational and/or marketed medicinal products and/o r medical devices. The policy applies to all Baxter -
sponsored studies worldwide.  
Baxter adheres to standards including, but not limited to, those found in the following:  
• The International Conference on Harmonization Guidelines for Industry Governing Good Clinical Practice , Good Laboratory 
Practices, and Good Manufacturing Practices; 
• International Ethical Guidelines for Biomedical Research Involving Human Subjects ; 
• European Union Directive 2001/20/EC  and Directive 2005/28/EC on the Approximation of the Laws, Regulations and 
Administrative Provision of the Member States  relating to the implementation of good clinical practices in the conduct of clinical 
trials on medicinal products for humans;  
• European Union Medical Device Directives  and U.S. Code of Federal Regulations Part 812  on medical devices;  
• Principles that have their origin in the Declaration of Helsinki;  
• Applicable privacy and data  protection standards and regulations such as the U.S. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability 
Act regulations and other country -specific requirements; and  
• The laws and regulations of the applicable country.  
Clinical trials require the prior written approval by an Independent Ethics Committee/Institutional Review Board. Before any study -
related activities or assessments occur, study subjects must provide informed written consent. 
For any clinical trial that prospectively assigns human subjects to in tervention and comparison groups to study the cause -and-effect 
relationship between a medical intervention and a health outcome, Baxter will register the trial at www.clinicaltrials.gov  within thr ee 
weeks after the first subject has been recruited. 	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/product -respo nsibility/materials -use.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Materials Use  
Customers, governments and other stakeholders are increasingly focused on the materials and chemical substances used in products 
and packaging. With regard to medical products, stakeholder s are especially focused on health and safety and environmental 
impacts, especially at product end -of-life. In some countries, legislation restricts the use of specific substances in products (see Case 
Study: Materials Restrictions ). Customers are also interested in which materials are recyclable, such as in product packaging . 
Baxter carefully considers the potential impacts of the materials it uses in its products and packaging, and takes a disciplined 
approach to identifying materials for possible restriction. The company focuses on the amount as well as th e types of materials used, 
working to eliminate hazardous substances wherever possible. For its electronic products, Baxter also works to maximize product 
service life, reuse and recycling  as appropriate. This decreases the demand for virgin materials to produce new products.  
In 2011, Baxter purchased more than 150,000 metric tons of major commodities for use in its products and packaging, in addition to 
pre-manufactured components (see Major Materials Used in Manufacturing ). The company continues working to improv e the 
efficiency of its materials use. Baxter implemented projects that reduced total packaging by 1,100 metric tons and corrugated 
cardboard consumption by 732 metric tons in 2010 -2011, on an annualized basis1 (see Packaging  for details). Because plastic scrap 
from manufacturing is Baxter's largest waste stream, generating roughly one -third of the company's non -hazardous waste, reducing 
plastic waste and increasing recy cling is another key focus see Waste  for details).  
Product Design  
Baxter's research and development and manufacturing operations work with env ironmental, health and safety (EHS) specialists to 
ensure that new products meet robust environmental design principles, comply with environmental regulations and satisfy customer 
requirements. As part of the company's product development process, Baxter applies a Product Sustainability Review (PSR) to all new medical devices, assessing EHS impacts across the product life cycle, including those related to materials selection and use. This includes an enhanced screen for toxic chemicals, which Baxter works t o eliminate when feasible. For example, new devices 
under development are designed to meet the European Union's Restriction on Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Directive guidelines 
worldwide and to avoid chemicals from the REACH (Registration, Evaluation and Au thorisation and Restriction of Chemicals) Directive 
list of "Substances of Very High Concern" as is appropriate.  
Supplementing PSR, Baxter also uses formal life cycle assessment to evaluate the environmental performance of its products and 
determine ways to reduce environmental footprint. This may include decreasing the presence of chemicals of concern and reducing 
life cycle water or energy consumption, carbon footprint and waste generation. See Product Sustainability Review for more detail.  
Reporting Mat erial Use  
Customers and governmental regulations increasingly require companies to disclose information about materials and chemical substances used in products and manufacturing. However, effectively tracking and complying with these regulations is comple x given 
the number and evolution of these standards, and since a product may contain components from numerous suppliers worldwide . 
To better meet this challenge, Baxter is implementing a global project to determine and record in one resource the material c hemical 
content of all substances and parts purchased for use in Baxter's products. The project also seeks to better understand what, if any, 	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/product -respo nsibility/materials -use.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  key chemicals of concern are present and to meet global regulations, such as the RoHS and REACH Directives. To dat e, the company 
has gathered information from more than 1,000 suppliers for about half of its product components (out of a total of tens of thousands 
of parts overall). Ensuring compliance will require heightened levels of supplier engagement, working with new suppliers, and 
potentially modifying product designs.  
Baxter is implementing a product stewardship software application to manage this environmental and other information related to new 
and existing products. This system will interface with other compa ny product information systems as well as supplier information 
systems.  
Materials Innovations  
To meet the preferences of some customers and address drug compatibility issues in specific clinical applications, Baxter has invested significant resources to develop a variety of materials that meet the unique technical, design, regulatory, clinical and 
commercial requirements of individual product lines and markets. The company now offers a portfolio of more than 300 intravenous medications, parenteral nutrition  solutions, injectable drugs, biopharmaceuticals, IV sets and access devices and other products that 
use or are contained in non -DEHP [di -(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate] or non -PVC materials. See Baxter's position statement  on PVC in 
medical products.  
Broader Impacts  
Baxter recognizes the interrelationship between materials choices and other environmental issues. The company estimates that in 2011 the greenhouse gas emissions in Baxter's supply chain attributable to Baxter's business equaled 1,121,000 metric tons carbon 
dioxide equivalent (CO
2e), 23.1% of Baxter's total GHG emissions footprint. This included an estimated 266,000 metric tons CO
2e for 
Baxter's first -tier suppliers, and 855,000 metric tons CO
2e for emissions from sub -tier suppliers, including raw materials extraction and 
processing as well as other activities (see Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Climate Change  for more detail). These numbers do not 
include GHG emissions related to product transport.  
1 These savings represent the total savings attributable to identified pr ojects across the company, counted only for the first year the pack aging innovation is 
implemented	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/manufacturing.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Manufacturing  
Baxter manufactures its products at more than 50 facilities in 27 countries worldwide. The company has extensive environmental, 
health and safe ty (EHS) programs to minimize environmental impacts and ensure employee safety during the manufacture of Baxter‘s 
products.  
Baxter generally requires third -party certification to the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001 Environmental 
Management System Standard for the company‘s manufacturing and research and development sites, and distribution sites with a 
capacity of more than 10,000 filled pallets or a workforce of 100 or more people. Manufacturing, research and development, and 
distribution sites that have achieved third -party ISO 14001 certification generally also pursue third -party Occupational Health and 
Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001 certification, as it helps improve a facility‘s health and safety programs. As of year -end 
2011, 66 Baxter locations (including all but one meeting the criteria outlined above) have met the requirements of ISO 14001 and are covered by Baxter‘s group certificate, and 50 Baxter locations were certified to OHSAS 18001. See EHS Management Systems and 
Certifications  for detail. 
In 2011, Baxter continued to improve its environmental and health and safety performance in manufacturing. Se e Environment, Health 
and Safety  for more detail. 
Baxter also influences its suppliers‘ manufacturing and other operational practices through its Ethics and Compliance S tandards for 
Baxter Suppliers and the company‘s e -impact program. See Supply Chain for more detail about Baxter‘s activities in this area.	  
http://sustainability. baxter.com/product -responsibility/product -transport.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Product Transport  
 
Baxter transports large  amounts of raw materials and more than 100 million cases of finished products each year throughout the 
company's global supply chain. In some instances, Baxter directly operates its product distribution system. For example, Baxter 
manages its own private,  and third party fleets, to transport its frozen therapies and to home deliver Renal products, and it distributes 
some of its products in selected regions, such as Europe. In other cases, Baxter partners with third -party vendors and carriers.  
Baxter uses s everal approaches to decrease the environmental impact, including associated greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, of 
product transport:  
• Intermodal Transport 
• Capacity Utilization and Technology Innovation  
• U.S. Renal Truck Fleet  
• Pallet Programs  
• Environmentally Responsible Partnerships  
• Measuring Performanc e 
Intermodal Transport  
Different modes of transport - such as air, ocean, river barges, trucks and rail - have varying levels of environmental impact. This is 
largely because they use different amounts of fuel per ton of product shipped. Given Baxter's cu rrent product mix and global reach, 
intermodal transport, which combines multiple modes for a single shipment, offers the greatest opportunity for the company to save 
costs and reduce GHG emissions related to product transportation.  
Baxter has increased i ts use of intermodal transport in Europe and the United States since 2002 to shift toward more energy -efficient 
modes. Shipping containers are moved from manufacturing plants by truck and then transferred to more efficient and cost -effective 
rail or barge transport for longer distances, and then shifted back to truck for final delivery. This increases fuel efficiency per ton of 
product transported, decreases costs and reduces emissions. 
Annual GHG Emissions Reductions from Total Shipments Using Intermodal T ransport in the United States*  
 2009  2010 2011 
Intermodal Loads  6,750  7,620  7,800  
Calculated Fuel Savings (liters)**  6,671,900  7,325,610  7,354,830  
Metric Tons of carbon dioxide equivalent 
(CO 2e) Emissions Reduced  18,010  19,780  19,860  
	  
http://sustainability. baxter.com/product -responsibility/product -transport.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  *In 2011, Baxter revised its methodology to track intermodal shipments in the United States. As a result, the company updated the data in this table for 2009 -
2010.  
** Calculated fuel savings is the difference between the total calculated fuel use of intermodal shipments ve rsus truck shipments on the same routes.  
As part of the above effort, Baxter has increased the use of intermodal transport at to replenish its U.S distribution network from 24% 
in 2009 to 27% in 2011.  
Baxter also conducts route -by-route analysis in Europe to assess and implement possible shifts to intermodal transport. Changing 
from truck to other modes of transport in the region reduced GHG emissions by approximately 10,000 metric tons CO
2e in 2011 based 
on changes implemented in 2010 and compared to what emissions would have been otherwise. These initiatives now cover 75% of replenishments in Europe, with 11,000 short sea loads reducing CO
2e emissions by 80% and 4,000 rail loads decreasing CO
2e 
emissions by 60% during the year.  
Capacity Utilization and Tec hnology Innovation  
Baxter also improves transport efficiencies by increasing capacity utilization. For example, use of double -deck trucks to replenish 
distribution centers across Europe has enabled Baxter to transport loads in two trucks that have historic ally required three. In 2011, 
this reduced CO
2e emissions by 101 metric tons. Baxter also works to ensure that trucks are at maximum load capacity, including 
through collaboration with business partners, reducing the number of trucks required.  
In Northampton, United Kingdom, Baxter worked with third -party logistics providers to utilize a highly aerodynamic teardrop -shaped 
truck design, which features a full -length curved roof with rounded corners that improve air flow and reduce drag force. The design 
decreases CO
2e emissions by approximately 18% while increasing cubic storage volume by 10%. Currently, approximately 50% of 
Baxter’s dedicated fleet in the United Kingdom use this model.  
U.S. Renal Truck Fleet  
As the largest part of Baxter's internally managed product transport system, the company's U.S. Renal truck fleet provides home 
delivery of peritoneal dialysis (PD) supplies to thousands of PD patients each day. During the last few years, improvements with environmental benefits have included the following : 
• Requiring new trucks to use nose cones that improve aerodynamics and increase fuel efficiency;  
• Installing onboard computers to monitor and reduce truck idle times, and incorporating a second -generation system with revised 
fleet delivery software to enhan ce efficiency;  
• Capping fleet speeds at 62 miles per hour to optimize fuel usage; and  
• Replacing approximately 20% of the existing fleet with newer, more efficient vehicles annually (for example, in 2011 Baxter 
replaced five existing vehicles with more fuel efficient trucks utilizing Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) technology, which 
neutralizes nitrogen oxides (NOx) in the exhaust stream and improves fuel efficiency by up to 5%).  
These initiatives reduced total U.S. Renal fleet emissions by approximately 1.1% and increased fuel economy by 1.1% in 2011 
compared to 2010. Baxter also increased the monthly number of deliveries per driver from 141 in 2009 to 149 in 2011.  	  
http://sustainability. baxter.com/product -responsibility/product -transport.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Baxter also added several new safety features to five of its trucks in 2011 that will help reduce work -related injuries among its drivers. 
These include cameras to assist drivers while reversing, front fender mirrors for better blind -spot visibility, ergonomically placed grab 
handles on door to help reduce back muscle strain, and lift -gate switches on both sides of the truck that allow drivers to operate 
safely away from traffic on either side of the vehicle. Additionally, all field management teams and drivers completed a safety training 
course in 2011. Read more about Baxter’s efforts in this a rea in the Health and Safety Performance and Safety Program Management 
and Initiatives  sections of the report.  
Pallet Programs  
Wooden pallets are used to consolidate cases of products for transport and to move products within Baxter facilities. Baxter works to 
use pallets more efficiently to save materials and cost. In Europe, for example, pallet programs within and across Baxter facilities, 
mainly in the United Kingdom and Spain, improved pallet utilization and enabled the company to reuse more than 80 ,000 pallets in 
2011, saving nearly $600,000. In Europe, Baxter also plans to recover pallets from the customer facing distribution cycle in Poland 
and France.  
In the United Kingdom, Baxter's Northampton distribution center uses "loadhogs" - reusable plast ic caps that fit over pallets -  as an 
alternative to shrink -wrap when shipping boxes of dialysis solutions to home patients. Baxter plans to test their use in additional 
facilities in Europe in 2012.  
In the United States, Baxter will explore in 2012 the fe asibility of using a light weight plastic pallet when shipping by air for certain 
international shipments. The new pallet weighs approximately 30 pounds less than the wooden pallets currently used and is reusable 
and recyclable.  
Environmentally Responsible  Partnerships  
Baxter is one of a select number of companies that participate in the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) SmartWay® program as both a Carrier Partner and a Shipper Partner. SmartWay is a partnership between the EPA and industry to redu ce air 
pollution and GHG emissions through cleaner, more fuel efficient product transport.  
Baxter became a SmartWay Carrier Partner  in 2009 with its own U.S. Renal truck  fleet, and achieved the highest possible score of 
1.25, recognizing the company’s "outstanding" commitment to utilizing commercially available fuel -saving options and actively 
evaluating emerging technologies that help reduce the environmental impact of i ts fleet.  
Besides the company’s own Renal fleet, Baxter works with shipping carriers to deliver other products. In January 2011, Baxter was also accepted into the SmartWa y Partnership as a Shipper . Since 2009, Baxter requires all of its carriers in the United States to be 
SmartWay members.  
In 2011, Baxter partnered with FedEx to use its Healthcare Shared Network to transport products with specific temperature requirements  in select locations in the United States. This service provides Baxter a time -definite, temperature controlled, less -than-
truckload delivery service designed for the pharmaceutical and diagnostics industries, eliminating the need for special packing 
mater ials previously used to keep shipments at required temperatures. In 2011, Baxter used this service to ship more than 2,100 
orders, saving Baxter approximately 35,000 coolers and 124,000 gel packs. These orders would have otherwise been shipped via air. 	  
http://sustainability. baxter.com/product -responsibility/product -transport.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Through this initiative, Baxter eliminated the need for 144 metric tons of packaging material in 2011. Baxter is exploring opportunities 
to include additional delivery locations in the United States.  
In Europe, Baxter also encourages product transportation pr ograms that reduce GHG emissions, and considers such initiatives when 
awarding contracts to carriers.  
In 2011, Baxter and healthcare company UCB agreed to combine their shipments to optimize product transport efficiencies in Europe. 
The companies believe t his will help both organizations increase the speed and frequency of medicine delivery to patients, while 
reducing carbon footprint by 30% and cost by 10% on average per shipment, depending on the destination and the potential for 
transport synchronization . The initial pilot program began with destinations in Eastern Europe. 
In June 2011, Baxter and its partners UCB, Tri -Vizor and H.Essers received the Innovation Award at the fourth European Supply Chain 
Awards ceremony organized by the World Trade Group an d Supply Chain Logistics. The award recognized Baxter and the other 
organizations for their innovative approach to freight transportation through this program.  
Measuring Performance  
In 2010, Baxter redesigned its process for collecting global transportatio n information to measure fuel usage and calculate GHG 
emissions related to product transport. The company regularly reports to Baxter's Sustainability Steering Committee on regional activities to describe the company's efforts in this area and encourage gl obal participation.  
Baxter plans to utilize a UPS supply chain solutions model to develop a global emissions measurement system to track GHG emissions from Baxter’s product transport worldwide. Through this model, Baxter will capture product shipments made  by truck, rail, 
air and ocean globally.	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/packaging.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Packaging  
Baxter works to decrease the environmental impact of packaging by reducing the amount used and substituting for environmentally -
preferable materials. The company implemented projects in 2011 that reduced t otal packaging on an annualized basis by 402 metric 
tons. Total annualized savings since 2007 equals 4,300 metric tons.1 
China  
Baxter’s facility in Guangzhou, China, decreased the packaging associated with one of its parenteral nutrition products, without 
impacting product protection and usability. Reducing the thickness of the aluminum cap and stopper and eliminating the plastic hanger produced annualized savings of 44 metric tons of a combination of aluminum and plastic material. 
Europe  
In 2008, Baxter an d its corrugate supplier in Castlebar, Ireland, initiated a project to optimize corrugate use. Weekly calls to review the 
previous week’s performance incorporated with daily measurement of scrap at the carton manufacturing, and weekly inventory counts of corrugate helped save approximately $79,000 annually between 2009 and 2011. The total corrugate reduction from 2008 to 2011 was 99 metric tons. After introducing a new board grade in 2011, Baxter saved an additional $300,000.  
In Lessines, Belgium, Baxter i mplemented a process to reduce the sheeting thickness of the extrusion process for many product 
codes, while maintaining overall specifications and ensuring quality standards. Depending on the product code, the company reduced sheeting thickness between 1%  and 2.8%, saving $318,000 and 5.3 metric tons of plastic annually.  
Latin America 
Projects implemented in Latin America in 2011 to reduce packaging include:  
• In São Paulo, Brazil, Baxter decreased the thickness of an overpouch for 500mL bags by 0.001 inch saving approximately 25 
metric tons of plastic and $100,000 on an annual basis. In addition, a second project to reduce the box size will also save a 
metric ton of corrugate and an additional $116,000 on an annual basis.  
• Baxter’s facility in Cali, Colombia , initiated a project in 2011 to reduce the packaging size of peritoneal dialysis (PD) solution 
cartons. A new design decreases the amount of corrugated material per carton by 40 grams while improving box strength. The project will save approximately 34 metric tons of corrugated material on an annual basis. The site also redesigned a product’s 
direction insert, reducing paper use by 85%, equaling 2.5 metric tons of annualized savings.  
• In 2011, Baxter’s facility in Cuernavaca, Mexico, redesigned the cardboard boxes for Baxter’s Mini -bag, 50mL, and 100mL 
intravenous (IV) bags configuration. The changes will save 32 metric tons of packaging annually.  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/packaging.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  United States  
In 2011, Baxter partnered with FedEx to use their Healthcare Shared Network to transport products with specific temperature 
requirements. This service provides temperature controlled delivery for the pharmaceutical and diagnostics industries, eliminating the 
need for packing materials such as coolers and gel packs to maintain required temperatures. Thr ough this initiative, Baxter has 
reduced packaging by an estimated 144 metric tons on an annualized basis.  
1 This equals the total savings attributable to identified projects across the company, counted only for the first year after the packaging innovatio n was 
implemented.	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/product -use.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Product Use  
Advertising and Promotion  
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and other governmental agencies worldwide regulate the advertising and promotion of 
pharmaceuticals, medical devices and biologics. Included in FDA's oversight are print and broadcast advertising, websites, press 
releases, sales brochures, scientific symposia and convention booths, and other promotional materials and activities.  
Baxter's Advertising and Promotion staff manage the company's compliance with pr omotional regulations companywide, reviewing 
marketing materials for accuracy and balance in terms of product risks and benefits. The company’s approach takes into account 
regulations and standards which vary by region: 
• In the United States, Baxter’s adver tising and promotion standards for all business groups incorporate best practices from inside 
and outside the company and comply with the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations.  
• In Europe, Baxter ensures that marketing materials for distribution in the region co mply with the European Federation of 
Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA) Code on the Promotion of Prescription -Only Medicines to, and Interactions 
with, Healthcare Professionals. The company’s procedures ensure review of marketing materials at the pan- European level, as 
well as at the country level for compliance with local codes of practice and national product licenses. Baxter also adheres to the 
EUCOMED UNAMEC Code  that covers medical devices.  
• In Asia Pacific, Baxter uses an electronic approval system that enables the company to comply with advertising and promotion 
codes, regulations and internal standards in 15 countries.  
• In Latin America, Baxter applies advertising and promotion standard review pro cedures to ensure compliance with local and 
regional marketing promotion codes and regulations.  
Compliance  
If a company fails to comply with advertising and promotion regulations in the United States, the FDA or the Department of Justice 
may initiate civil or criminal enforcement actions. Enforcement actions can range from an untitled letter (the least serious)  or a warning 
letter (an elevated action) up to a criminal indictment. In 2011, no enforcement actions were initiated against Baxter by the FDA.  
 2007 2008 2009  2010 2011 
Untitled Letters  0 1 0 0 0 
Warning Letters  0 0 1 1 0 
Comparable information is not commonly available outside the United States.  
See Priorities and Goals for information about Baxter's progress against its goal to continue to champi on internal and industrywide 
ethical sales and marketing pract ices. 	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/product -use.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Access to Healthcare 
Worldwide, many people lack access to Baxter's products due to insufficient resources, inadequate healthcare infrastructure, 
disruption caused by natural disasters and other crises, and other factors. Baxter works to increase access to healthcare globally 
through product development, initiatives targeted specifically at the "base of the pyramid"1, product donations and philanthropic 
giving. See Access to Healthcare  for more detail. 
1 The term "base of the pyramid" refers to the approximately 4 billion people who each live on less than $1,500 per year, mostly in developing countries.	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/product -end-of-life.html 
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Product End -of-Life 
The responsible treatment of healthcare products after customer use is an important issue worldwide. Because the appropriate 
approach varies by  type of product, Baxter has a range of initiatives. For example, some of the electronic medical devices Baxter 
sells, such as renal automated peritoneal dialysis cyclers, are well suited to repair and refurbishment after the original customer has finished  using them (see below). Many of the company ’s other products, such as intravenous (IV) bags, cannot be reused due to 
regulatory, quality and safety reasons but may be responsibly recycled to recapture materials for other uses. 
Electronic Products  
In some countries, Baxter leases most of its electronic medical products to customers, which helps ensure they will be returned to Baxter after a set period of time. As appropriate, the company uses repair and refurbishment, which ext ends a product's useful life 
and decreases the environmental impacts associated with product disposal and the manufacture of new products.  
At times, reuse is not feasible and regulations worldwide reflect the recent focus on electronic product recycling. F or example, the 
European Union Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) Directive requires companies to arrange for the take- back of 
electronic products at end -of-life to enable the recovery and recycling of product components and materials. This r egulation impacts 
a range of Baxter products in Europe, including dialysis machines, IV pumps and other electronic devices. Baxter is in full compliance 
in all EU member states where the regulations have been adopted. In 2011, approximately 100 metric tons  of electronic products were 
recovered on Baxter's behalf through these programs in Europe.  
Baxter ’s WEEE website  provides customers detailed information on WEEE and how to dispose of Baxter pro ducts in accordance with 
the Directive, in each of the European Union Member States.  
When customers return products to Baxter that contain batteries, or when Baxter repairs those products on -site, Baxter sends the 
batteries to a recycler when feasible, or otherwise provides for responsible disp osal. 
Disposable Medical Waste  
Baxter has worked with customers, other companies in the industry, and recycling and disposal vendors to facilitate the recycling and 
responsible treatment of disposable medical products. The company was a  charter member of the Healthcare Plastics Recycling 
Council (HPRC), an alliance of global healthcare companies focused on the recycling of plastic products in hospitals. Baxter is now one of 11 companies involved with HPRC in the development of the Design  Guidelines for Optimal Hospital Plastics Recycling, 
primarily intended for product designers and users of disposable medical devices.  
Baxter continues to look for other opportunities to partner with waste management and recycling firms to test the economi c and 
logistical feasibility of more efficient management of wastes generated from Baxter IV products. Possibilities include creating products 
from recycled materials that can be reused in the medical supply chain, such as plastic pallets made from mixed I V bags or 
packaging.  
Baxter won the Repak Best Practice in Industry Award in 2011 for its innovative program in Ireland offering services to pick up and 
responsibly process waste for home renal and oncology patients. Contractors collect, process and dispos e of the products as 	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/product -end-of-life.html 
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  required by law1 , while protecting patient confidentiality and privacy. The program also collects recyclable materials such as 
cardboard from patients' homes where local authorities don't offer this service, decreasing the amount of t hese materials that go to 
disposal. In 2011, Baxter provided waste -collection services to more than 590 home patients in Ireland through this program, 
collecting a total of 86 metrics tons of w aste. 
Global Audit Program  
Baxter has a global audit program covering all regulated or medical waste recycling or disposal sites that Baxter uses for waste 
generated internally. As part of this program, before using a medical waste recyclin g or disposal vendor, trained Baxter auditors 
assess the vendor for compliance with Baxter ’s requirements. Repeat audits are then conducted at least once every four years. These 
audits examine all aspects of operations, including site history, regulatory c ompliance, financial conditions, insurance, and other 
factors. Baxter has audited and approved more than 200 regulated or medical waste recycling or disposal sites through this program.  
1 Oncology products are classed as "hazardous" waste in Ireland which requires specialized incineration. Non -hazardous medical waste, such as over renal 
product pouches, bags, cassettes and shields, is classed as "clinical" waste and is sterilized and shr edded before the material is accepted for landfill.	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2011 -report/materials -restrictions.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Case Study: Materials Restrictions  
The European Union (EU) Restriction on Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Directive seeks to phase out the use of lead, mercury, 
cadmium, hexavalent chromium and brominated flame retardants used in electronic products such as computers, televisions and 
mobile phones. This is principally aimed at minimizing negative environmental impacts from these substances throughout the product life cycle , in particular at product end -of-life. 
The RoHS2 Directive was recently released. Medical devices are no longer exempt and will fall within the scope of the directive 
beginning in July 2014. After that time, medical devices that contain, subject to certai n thresholds, the substances
1 listed above will no 
longer be allowed on the EU market. Furthermore, countries such as China, South Korea, Taiwan and some U.S. states such as 
California have already implemented legislation similar to RoHS2. Baxter is implem enting a global strategy to respond to these 
regulations worldwide, and requires that all new machines under development meet RoHS Directive restrictions regarding heavy metals.  
Baxter is also working to ensure it meets the European Union's REACH (Registra tion, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of 
Chemicals) Directive. Under the legislation, chemical suppliers, manufacturers or importers of more than one metric ton of a chemical 
substance in a given year must register the substance with the European  Chemical Agency. The regulation expands significantly the 
number of substances that will require authorization for use, identifies "Substances of Very High Concern" that may face future 
restrictions, and requires companies to proactively inform customers about the presence
2 of those substances in products.  
Baxter's cross -functional REACH team oversees the company's ongoing response to this regulation and explores further 
opportunities to eliminate hazardous substances. To keep informed of these sorts of trends, Baxter's global Environmental, Health 
and Safety (EHS) organization assesses existing, new and emerging environmental regulations in Europe to identify and prioritize critical business issues, benchmarks Baxter ’s performance against others in the i ndustry, and helps the company develop positions 
and strategies aimed at improving its environmental performance. A global EHS team also monitors similar regulations world wide. 
1 As defined by the RoHS2 Directive, maximum concentrations allowed are 0.1% by weight of homogeneous material for all substances except for cadmium 
which is  restricted to 0.01% by weight. 
2 As defined by REACH legislation, “presence ” equals at least 0.1% of t he total product mass.    
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/supply -chain/index.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Supply Chain  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
     
 
  
 
  
 
 
 At Baxter, "supply chain" refers to the organization and activities that plan and coordinate product inputs 
from tens of thousands of suppliers worldwide to Baxter manufacturing operations; develop schedules to 
meet forecasted demand; and distribute finished products to customers in more than 100 countries. The 
company relies on this supply chain to securely deliver the right products to the right places at the right time.  
Baxter’s competitive advantage and strengt hened position in the market are reinforced by the implementation of a comprehensive 
Global Supplier Sustainability Program, which ensures goals are met, efficiencies managed and results measured. Specific Global 
Supplier Sustainability initiatives within this strategy include: a Sustainable Supply Chain Program, a Material Compliance Program, a 
C-TPAT Program and a Water Security Program. Baxter also drives a sustainable supply chain through a variety of activities including:  
• Managing Supplier Performance  - Establishing Baxter's expectations for and ensuring supplier commitment to sustainability;  
• Global Sustainable Supply Chain - Promoting practices that enhance supplier environmental performance; 
• Product Transport  and Packaging  - Optimizing logistics and improving packaging to minimize related environmental impacts 
(included in the Product Responsibility  section); 
• Supplier Diversity  - Maintaining a supplier base that reflects the diversity of Baxter's markets and the  communities in which the 
company operates; and  
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/supply -chain/index.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  • Customers  - Managing a safe, secure and reliable supply chain to ensure patient safety and meet customer needs, and 
decreasing env ironmental impacts and cost through e -commerce.  
Read more about transparency in Baxter’s supply chain through the company’s disclosure statement  in response to the California 
Transparency in Supply Chains Act.	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/supply -chain/managing -supplier -performance.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Managing Supplier Performance  
 
Approximately 35,000 suppliers in more than 100 countries provide the goods, services and raw materials required by Baxter's 
operations worldwide. In 2011, Baxter's total supplier spending was approximately $5.7 billion. About 26% of this was on "direct" 
supplies - raw materials and components used in Baxter products. Baxter buys most of its direct supplies from companies located 
near its operations. All other supplies are c onsidered "indirect" - goods and services that support other aspects of the company's 
operations.  
Supplier Standards  
Baxter’s Global Supplier Sustainability Program builds on several sustainability -related standards that govern Baxter's supplier 
relationsh ips. Baxter's Supplier Quality Standard  and Ethics and Compliance Standards for Baxter Suppliers  provide a framework for 
consistent supplier evaluation and selection, and define policies and expectations for ethical behavior when doing business with 
Baxter. Baxt er evaluates and approves suppliers before purchasing any materials, components, products or services.  
The Supplier Quality Standard specifically addresses sustainability issues, including child labor, employment standards, waste and energy reduction, and ethics. Baxter's Ethics and Compliance Standards for Baxter Suppliers, available in 19 languages, also cover 
child labor, as well as confidential information, intellectual property, gifts and entertainment, anti -corruption, conflicts of interest, trade 
compliance, fair employment opportunities, and environment, health and safety (EHS).  
Baxter expects all suppliers to comply with both sets of standards as well as all laws governing purchasing, and may terminate 
agreements with suppliers that do not. Baxter a lso asks key suppliers to provide emergency response plans describing how they will 
continue to provide vital supplies in the event of a catastrophe or other business interruption.  
Ethics training is mandatory for employees in Baxter's Purchasing and Suppl ier Management (PSM) organization. All PSM employees 
that interface with suppliers are required to take an online ethics and compliance course as well as a live session conducted by 
Baxter's Ethics and Compliance organization.  
Baxter fosters and maintains a culture of compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations, and the highest standards of ethics 
and business conduct with respect to forced labor and human trafficking and slavery. The company’s commitment is extended to its relationships with sup pliers. Specifically, Baxter does not support, encourage or endorse any form of forced labor or human trafficking 
and slavery in our operations or in our supplier networks. The company takes a number of steps  to ensure suppliers are operating in 
an ethical manner and not engaged with these practices.  
Annual Supplier Sustainability Survey  
Baxter conducted its third annual survey of 100 select suppliers in 2011 t o evaluate their performance against the company’s 
sustainability criteria (see table). Baxter uses survey responses to learn more about suppliers’ sustainability programs and identify 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/supply -chain/managing -supplier -performance.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  opportunities for best practice sharing and collaboration designed to i mprove the performance of both Baxter and its suppliers. 
Suppliers’ responses do not affect whether Baxter will continue to work with them.  
Baxter identifies 100 suppliers each year to survey based on spend, the supplier’s importance to business continuity , and their carbon 
footprint. In 2011, these suppliers represented approximately 18% of Baxter’s global supplier spend. This group includes suppliers 
from each of Baxter’s regions and all of its major commodity groups and purchasing categories. In 2011, 84 % of the invited suppliers 
completed the survey.  
While Baxter aims to the keep the participant list consistent for comparability year over year, certain suppliers are added or removed from the survey set due to changes in business needs, contractual needs or other reasons. Percentage changes from year to year in 
some categories may be due partly to this variation.  
Forty -three percent of the 84 respondents in the 2011 survey were rated "sustainable" based on Baxter’s criteria, compared to 44% of 
77 responden ts in 2010. 
Baxter Annual Supplier Sustainability Survey Summary Results  
Category  % Sustainable*  
 2009  2010  2011  
Environmental / Sustainability Program  
Example Criteria: Measures and reports environmental information  34%  30%  36%  
Protection of Human Rig hts 
Example Criteria: Has goal and programs to prevent and reduce work -related 
injuries  (added in 
2010)  88%  96%  
Reductions in Carbon Footprint  
Example Criteria: Has a goal and program to reduce GHG emissions  46%  61%  60%  
Reductions in Natural Resource Use  
Example Criteria: Has a goal and activities to reduce waste generation  61%  55%  63%  
Enhanced Product Stewardship  
Example Criteria: Uses a product stewardship/life cycle approach  24%  35%  46%  
Percentage of Responding Suppliers Considered "Sustainable" Over all 34%  44%  43%  
*Suppliers are considered sustainable in a category when responding positively ("yes" or "in progress") to 90% of the questions in that category. In 2011, Baxter 
changed the terminology of the overall rating from "green" to "sustainable" t o more accurately reflect the criteria.  
Recognizing Supplier Sustainability Efforts Globally  
Since 2009, Baxter has documented and recognized supplier and employee environmental initiatives through its e -Impact program. 
Baxter employees submit descriptions  of current or planned projects to collaborate with suppliers and reduce Baxter’s and the 
supplier’s environmental impacts. To recognize successful projects, Baxter leaders in Purchasing and Supplier Management and 
Environment, Health and Safety award both  the supplier and Baxter employees with electronic certificates.  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/supply -chain/managing -supplier -performance.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Baxter increased focus on its e -Impact program in 2011 to help drive global supplier engagement with the company’s sustainability 
initiatives. As a result, employees submitted more than 100 e xamples of projects to reduce environmental impact in 10 countries. Of 
these, 41 initiatives were successfully completed in 2011, with the combined benefits summarized below. Combined, these 41 
projects resulted in approximately 15,000 metric tons of CO2e emissions reduction, which is equivalent to the amount of electricity 
used by 2,300 U.S. homes during a year or removing 2,400 cars from the road for that same period of time.1  
Combined Results of Successful e -Impact Projects  
 2010  2011  
e-Impact Project  Ideas Submitted  5 107 
e-Impact Projects Successfully Completed  5 41 
Cost Savings  $231,000  $3,100,000  
CO2e Emissions Reduction  162 metric tons  15,000 metric tons  
For additional information and examples of projects recognized through Baxter’s e -Impact p rogram, see Case Study: Baxter Grows e -
Impact Program Globally. Past case studies are also available with examples from 2010 and 2009.  
1 Figures calculated using the Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator from the United States Environmental Protection Agency:  
http://www.epa.gov/cleanenergy/energy -resources/calculator.html .	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/supply -chain/gl obal-sustainable -supply- chain.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Global Sustainable Supply Chain  
 
Baxter educates and empowers its global Purchasing Supplier Management (PSM) personnel and the company's broa der employee 
population to influence purchasing decisions and implement supplier initiatives that enhance sustainability performance. These efforts 
support and strengthen Baxter's commitment to reduce its environmental impact while maintaining continuity o f supply and managing 
costs.  
Global Supplier Sustainability Program  
Through Baxter's Global Supplier Sustainability Program, the company integrates sustainable practices into its procurement policies and procedures. The program focuses on:  
• Sustainable supp ly chain  - Procuring products and services that that make a positive contribution to society and the 
environment by embracing ethical, environmental and social principles (see below ); 
• Material compliance  - Working with suppliers to meet the growing number of regulations worldwide related to product materials 
(see below ); 
• Water Security Program - Providing a framework for better understanding the possible impact water scarcity may have on 
Baxter's supply chain (see below ); and  
• C-TPAT (Customs -Trade Partnership Against Terrorism) Program  - Collaborating with governments and other businesses to 
strengthen international supply chains and U.S. border security (see below ).  
Baxter monitors global PSM progress in implementing the company's sustainable supply chain programs as well as supplier progress in applying Baxter's sustainable criteria . The company also tracks suppliers' progress in their own sustainability programs, and 
incorp orates results into supplier business reviews.  
Purchasing teams and individuals globally chose a performance goal for 2011 tied to the company's sustainability initiatives, based on 
the unique needs of his or her country. For example, each manager in Baxte r's corporate headquarters focused on submitting stories 
for the e-Impact program  to encourage collaboration with suppliers.  
Sustainable Procurement  
One of Baxter's 2015 sustainability goals  is to incorporate sustainable principles into its purchasing program. Baxter and its suppliers 
both benefit from these efforts.  
Since 2009, Baxter has integrated 20 sustainability criteria into its purchasing procedures to provide its procurement organization a framework to evaluate suppliers' sustainability initiatives. These criteria fall into five categories  that align with Baxter's own 
sustainability efforts, including a category added in 2010 to evaluate suppliers' protection of human rights. Baxter conducts an annual 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/supply -chain/gl obal-sustainable -supply- chain.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  survey of 100 select suppliers to evaluate their performance against these criteria. In 2011, Baxter incorporated additional questions 
into this survey related to human rights.  
RFPs and Supplier Agreements  
Baxter considers cost, quality, environmen tal criteria and other factors when selecting and evaluating its suppliers to reduce the 
company's environmental impact while maintaining continuity of supply and managing costs. To support these efforts, Baxter incorporates language related to sustainabil ity in Request for Proposal (RFP) and supplier contract templates to reiterate Baxter's 
commitment to sustainability and assess each supplier's ability to support Baxter's sustainability goals and conduct their business 
activities consistent with Baxter's established standards for its suppliers. This language is now included in these documents in 
Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Mexico, New Zealand and the United States.  
Baxter's updated RFPs ask suppliers to provide:  
• Their sustainability policy and mission statement;  
• A description of company sustainability initiatives and outcomes;  
• A list of sustainability- related awards received;  
• Disclosure of environmental violations and fines for the past three years;  
• Details on purchasing from diverse suppliers, particularly related to products and services in the RFP (as applicable); and  
• Information about other initiatives that would support Baxter's sustainability goals . 
Baxter's standard supplier agreement requires U.S.- based suppliers to certify compliance with federal and state equal opportunity 
laws. Suppliers also commit to make good- faith efforts to consider small, minority -owned, women- owned, veteran -owned and other 
diverse suppliers when engaging their own suppliers.  
The agreement also encourages suppliers to support Baxter's sustainability initiatives by identifying for Baxter's use products and/or 
services with reduced environmental impact. Baxter asks its suppliers to provide regular updates on their sustainability activities.  
Product Material Regulatory Compliance  
Effectively tracking the materials and chemical substances used in products and manufacturing is complex since a product may contain many components from numerous suppliers worldwide. To better meet this challenge, Baxter contracted with a specialized 
service provider to manage environmental and other information related to new and existing products. This includes information about 
product materials content , which will help Baxter evaluate compliance with the European Union Restriction of Hazardous Substances 
(RoHS) and Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation of Chemicals (REACH) Directives as well as similar existing and emerging 
regulations in other par ts of the world. 
Baxter began contacting suppliers in September 2010 as part of the company's Material Compliance Project. This initiative ensures 
that materials used in Baxter's products comply with a wide range of environmental regulations in Europe, ind ividual U.S. states, and 
other countries worldwide (e.g., Australia, Canada, China, Japan and South Korea) while maintaining high -quality standards and 
satisfying customer requirements.  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/supply -chain/gl obal-sustainable -supply- chain.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Baxter stores data collected from suppliers in a database that interfa ces with other company and supplier information systems, to 
allow Baxter to better understand, manage and optimize product environmental performance and meet customer needs while 
facilitating regulatory compliance. In 2012, Baxter plans to work with a serv ice provider to survey the company's suppliers for 
additional substances of very high concern.  
See Materials Use  and Materials Restrictions  for more information about Baxter's programs in related areas.  
Water Security Program  
Water scarcity is a growing problem that affects governments, businesses, a nd individuals in many parts of the world. Baxter's water 
security program, launched in 2010, provides a framework to help the company better understand the possible impact water scarcity may have on Baxter's supply chain and its impact in local communitie s. The program helps Baxter identify potential risks and 
opportunities and act responsibly on this issue while enabling the company to maintain continuity of supply and manage related costs.  
In 2011, Baxter surveyed suppliers in water -stressed areas to determine their level of knowledge regarding water scarcity. The survey 
also asked suppliers if they have programs to address this issue and identified potential areas for Baxter to collaborate with suppliers 
to mitigate possible water -related risks.  
Read abo ut Baxter's additional efforts related to Water and Wastewater . 
U.S. Customs -Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C -TPAT) Program  
In 2011, Baxter was recognized as a Tier III Partner in the U.S. Customs -Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C -TPAT) program. C -
TPAT is a joint U.S. government -business initiative that builds cooperative relationships to enhance U.S. border security, wi th a focus 
on strengthening security throughout the supply chain. As a C -TPAT participant since August 2009, Baxter has committed to 
maintaining Tier III security criteria as well as ongoing enhancements to the security of its global supply chain.  
Tier III  is the highest level an importer can achieve in the C -TPAT program. Currently, only approximately 3% of the more than 10,000 
program participants have achieved this status. Baxter's internal C -TPAT steering committee remains committed to monitoring and 
enhancing its supply chain practices and implementing process improvements as needed.	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/supply -chain/supplier -diversity.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Supplier Diversity  
 
Baxter works to develop mutually beneficial relationships with small and diverse suppliers, and strives to continue to expand the 
diversity of its supp lier base. This is a key aspect of the company's broader commitment to inclusion and diversity. Baxter also uses 
its annual supplier sustainability survey  and contracting process to assess the supplier diversity programs of its own suppliers.  
Baxter has been a corporate sponsor of the National Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC) for more than 20 years, and in 
2006 joined the NMSDC Health Care Industry Group. Baxter is also a corporate partner of the Women’s Economic Development Organization. The company participates regularly in vendor fairs to promote supplier diversity, and maintains an online database  that 
enables small and diverse businesses in the United States to share their capabilities with Baxter procurem ent representatives.  
In 2011, Baxter conducted its first Supplier Diversity Round Table event. The company invited a few suppliers of varying sizes and industries to Baxter’s corporate headquarters to discuss how Baxter might advance its supplier diversity  program. As a result of this 
event, Baxter identified opportunities to strengthen its communication between Baxter and suppliers to promote idea sharing. The company held a second Supplier Diversity Round Table during the first part of 2012, and Baxter is  considering which opportunities 
identified during the meeting it can implement moving forward.  
Since 2008, Baxter has included supplier diversity information in its supplier agreement summary sheets approved by senior management. These checklists include questions such as: How many diverse suppliers were included in the selection process? What 
classification were those suppliers? Was the selected supplier diverse? If not, why?  
2011 Supplier Diversity Performance 
In 2011, Baxter spent approximately $388 mil lion with small businesses in the United States and Puerto Rico, which was 
approximately 15% of Baxter's total supplier spending of $2.6 billion in those markets during the year. The company spent approximately $87.5 million with women -owned businesses and  nearly $36 million with minority -owned firms in the United States and 
Puerto Rico. Veteran -owned, service -disabled veteran -owned, small disadvantaged and HUBZone -certified businesses represented 
approximately $8 million, $1.5 million, $5.8 million and $1. 6 million of Baxter's spending, respectively. 
Baxter Supplier Diversity Spending (Dollars in Millions)*  
 2007  2008  2009  2010  2011  
Small Businesses  $399  $457  $484  $491  $388  
Women -Owned Businesses  95 88 80 97 87.5 
Minority -Owned Businesses  23 24 20 34 36 
  *United States and Puerto Rico. Fiscal year basis (October 1 through September 30 of the year noted). Accounts payable data are sent to a third party, which 
categorizes spending. Other categories in total include veteran -owned, service -disabled veteran -owned, small disadvantaged and HUBZone -certified 
businesses. HUBZone is a United States Small Business Administration (SBA) program for small companies that operate and employ people in Historically 
Underutilized Business Zones (HUBZones).
	  
http://sustainability .baxter.com/supply -chain/customers.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Customers  
 
Baxter's supply chain extends from producers of raw materials to end users of the company's products. Maintaining a safe, secure 
and reliable supply chain is essential for ensuring patient safety. Baxter's supply chain must function without interruption even when 
natural disasters and other unexpected crises occur. Baxter also works to ensure that it transports its products  to customers in a 
reliable and environ mentally responsible way. See Product Integrity  for information about GS1 standards.  
Increasing Efficiency Through eCommerce  
Baxter offers electronic product fu lfillment options that help customers automate business transactions . The online eServices Center, 
provided to customers free of charge, enables easy order placement, inqu iries, usage reports, and shipment tracking. Customers can 
find Baxter's products in the company's online catalog, available in 14 countries. Baxter supports standard electronic data 
interchange (EDI) as well as transactions processed through the Global He althcare Exchange (GHX). The exchange, owned by Baxter 
and other healthcare manufacturers, group purchasing organizations and distributors, enables healthcare providers to transact with 
multiple vendors through one electronic connection.  
Electronic ordering, invoicing, payment, advanced -ship notices, distributor transactions and inquiries help Baxter to streamline 
customer transactions and reduce paper use and costs. More than 83%, excluding home patient orders, of order lines are handled 
electronically in the United States.
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2011 -report/e -impact -global -growth.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights  Reserved.  Case Study: Baxter ʼs e-Impact Program Grows Globally  
 
	  
Baxter increased focus on its e -Impact program in 2011 to help drive engagement globally on the company’s sustainability initiatives 
with its suppliers and vendors. As a result, dur ing the year employees submitted more than 100 examples of projects to reduce 
environmental impact in 10 countries. This is up from 5 examples submitted from the United States alone in 2010.  
Since 2009, Baxter’s e -Impact program has recognized environmenta l initiatives launched in collaboration with the company’s 
suppliers. Baxter employees are invited to submit examples of current and planned projects that will reduce environmental impact, 
and can view each other’s submissions for ideas they may consider l ocally. If a project is successfully completed, Baxter leaders in 
Purchasing and Supplier Management and Environment, Health and Safety recognize both the supplier and the Baxter employee with 
a certificate. Baxter recognized 24 suppliers and vendors throu gh its e -Impact program in 2011. 
For example, in Shanghai, China, Baxter collaborated with one of its plastics suppliers to implement an environmental controls project 
to reduce energy and water usage at the company’s compounding plant. The project saved a pproximately 6,200 kWh of energy and 
74 cubic meters of water on projects related to Baxter in 2011.  
In Mexico City, Mexico, Baxter contracted with one of its corrugate suppliers to sell back cardboard scrap. Baxter estimates this recycling effort will re duce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 1,400 metric tons carbon dioxide equivalent (CO
2e) annually.  
Baxter employees in Canada worked with three local pallet suppliers to build a pallet recovery program. All materials that cannot be 
reused are processed i nto woodchips that are used as boiler fuel or to create particle board. In 2011, more than 2,300 pallets were 
recovered, diverting 42 metric tons of waste from landfill.  
Forty -one projects submitted in 2011 through the e -Impact program were successfully co mpleted during the year. Combined, these 
reduced GHG emissions by approximately 15,000 metric tons CO
2e, equivalent to the amount of electricity used by 2,300 U.S. homes 
during a year or removing 2,400 cars from the road for that same period of time.1 
1 Figures calculated using the Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator from the United States Environmental Protection Agency: 
http://www.epa.gov/cleanenergy/energy -resources/calculator.html .
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2011 -report/car -fleet- sales.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights  Reserved.  Case Study: Baxter ʼs Sales Car Fleet in the United States 
Becomes More Fuel Efficient  
 
	  
As part of Baxter's priority to drive a sustainable supply chain, the company is working to 
reduce the environmental impact of its car fleet. In the United States, thro ugh 2011 Baxter 
has made changes that reduced greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions per kilometer driven by 4.1%, compared to 2007. This is mainly due to shifting additional vehicles from less -
efficient six cylinder engine to four cylinder engines in 2011.  
In 201 1, GHG emissions from Baxter's U.S. car fleet equaled 9,900 metric tons carbon 
dioxide equivalent (CO
2e), 5.9% more than in 2007. This is mainly due to the annual 
fluctuation in number of vehicles and miles, with 5.2% more vehicles driving 10.5% more 
miles  today than in 2007.  
Four cylinder cars make up nearly 80% of Baxter's U.S. car fleet. The company expects to 
transition the remainder of the fleet to four cylinder automobiles by the end of 2012, excluding service facility vehicles, which will remain six cylinder due to size and transport 
requirements. When possible, Baxter tries to use flex fuel. 
Baxter's effort to improve fuel efficiency is also impacted by driving behavior, so in 2011 Baxter partnered with its fleet vendor to 
enroll Baxter's U.S. driver s in the EcoWheels Challenge. This program promotes environmentally responsible driving habits, such as 
reducing idling time and accelerating gradually. Approximately one -third of Baxter's U.S. drivers pledged to follow the voluntary 
program, and the company saw fuel efficiency increase for its drivers overall by approximately 2.8% during the chall enge. 
	  
	  
	  
	  	   	  
	  
 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/access -to-healthcare/index.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Access to Healthcare  
 
 
 
Improving access to healthcare is a global challenge. The issue is especially challenging in developing 
countries, where poor infrastructure, political instability, poverty, lack of education, restrictive regulatory environments,  and inadequate availability and affordability of medical products can all limit access. Addressing 
this challenge requires cooperation among governments, non -governmental organizations, corporations, 
medical professionals and others.  
Baxter works to impro ve access to healthcare globally through:  
• Advancing public health  
• Base of the pyramid initiatives  
• Product donations  
• The Baxter International Foundation awards and grants  
• Public policy efforts  
 	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/access -to-healthcare/advancing -public -health.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Advancing Public Health  
Baxter’s diverse portfolio is focused on treatments that help save and sustain lives. As a global, diversified healthcare company, 
Baxter applies a unique combinati on of expertise in medical devices, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology to research and create 
products that advance patient care worldwide. Through individual business units and corporate research and development (R&D), 
Baxter strives to provide new product s as well as training and education to meet the needs of current and future patients. Additionally, 
the company’s base of the pyramid initiative strives to better serve the needs of patients at the lowest end of the economic spectrum. 
Examples of Baxter’s latest efforts include:  
Improving Care for Hemophilia Patients  
As a leading manufacturer of products that help save and sustain the lives of people with hemophili a, Baxter is committed to 
improving patient treatment and care. The company is also working to provide medical professionals with educational opportunities to 
increase their effectiveness in addressing the disease. In 2011, to help orthopedic surgeons in L atin America improve their knowledge 
of common medical procedures needed by hemophilia patients, Baxter sponsored several training sessions led by a team of expert 
physicians at the Centro Médico Imbanaco’s Hemophilia Treatment Center in Cali, Colombia. Tw enty- eight participants learned basic 
hemophilia treatment principles, as well as laboratory techniques, nursing care and emergency responses for dealing with these 
patients.  
Educating Anesthesiologists  
Education for anesthesiologists from developing count ries is one of the largest unmet needs in the field of anesthesiology, according 
to the World Federation of Societies of Anaesthesiologists (WFSA). Since 2008, working with the WFSA, Baxter has sponsored high potential anesthesiologist trainees from develo ping countries to attend the World Congress of Anesthesiologists as well as major 
regional anesthesiology congresses in an effort to enhance education and medical care for individuals and countries that do not have sufficient funding for such activities. O ne major benefit for scholars attending such congresses is to develop an international network 
of anesthesiologists that will further support them.  
The company is also contributing to other educational initiatives: In 2011, thanks to a grant from Baxter, t he Colombian Society of 
Anesthesiologists launched a Teach the Teacher program to help young anesthesiologists from Colombia and other countries in Latin America improve their teaching skills. Participants gain experience in teaching others how to manage c omplex situations in a 
simulated operating room environment.  
The company also supported the development of a two -disc set of teaching materials related to obstetric anesthesiology. The CDs 
contain articles, lectures and refresher courses around the safe an d appropriate anesthetic management of obstetric patients, and 
have been made available to anesthesia providers in developing countries. Since 2010, more than 3,000 CDs have been distributed.  
Addressing Drug Shortages  
During the last five years, many count ries, including Canada, the United Kingdom, the United States and others have increasingly 
experienced shortages of pharmaceutical products. This complex issue stems from intertwined factors including shifts in clinical practices, wholesaler and pharmacy i nventory strategies, raw material shortages, changes in hospital and pharmacy contractual 
relationships with suppliers and wholesalers, adherence to distribution protocols mandated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration 	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/access -to-healthcare/advancing -public -health.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  (FDA) and other regulatory agencie s, individual company decisions to discontinue specific medicines and spikes in demand due to 
natural disasters.  
Baxter is committed to finding solutions to the drug shortage issue that are balanced and involve stakeholders across the supply chain 
and dist ribution spectrum. The company has a longstanding commitment to increasing access to its treatments, and its extensive 
portfolio offers multiple options for clinicians and patients to address their supply needs through similar products or drugs that are available in slightly different delivery forms that may be suitable alternatives for the product that is in short supply.  
In numerous cases during the last few years, Baxter has worked to help patients continue to receive the treatments they need. For exampl e, the company has accelerated production to meet increased demand arising from competitor shortages of several IV products.  
Baxter has also collaborated with professional associations and government agencies to develop clinical guidance for health provide rs 
that have had to shift their standard practices as a result of product shortages. For example, Baxter recently sponsored the first ever summit to address IV nutrition safety, in collaboration with the FDA and the American Society for Parenteral and Ente ral Nutrition 
(ASPEN), the Institute for Safe Medication Practices and the American Society of Health -System Pharmacists, among others. 
Recommendations from the safety summit were published in ASPEN’s Journal of Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/access -to-healthcare/base- of-the-pyramid.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Base of the  Pyramid  
A key aspect of Baxter ʼs approach to expand access to healthcare is developing product and business model innovations targeted at 
those at the “base of the pyramid” (BoP), the approximately 4 billion people worldwide who each live on less than $1, 500 annually and 
have limited access to the healthcare market.  
In 2011, Baxter continued its collaboration with Dr. Stu Hart from Cornell University, and the Enterprise for a Sustainable World (ESW) . 
Baxter's Base of the  Pyramid (BOP) team, composed of company representatives from environmental health and safety, ethics and 
compliance, research and development, manufacturing, and commercial leads from the Medical Products and BioScience businesses, 
hired representatives f rom ESW to interview 30 Baxter business leaders from around the world to understand where and how the 
company is currently selling products in regions with high BoP representation or has technology well suited for use in the BoP. To identify future opportu nities and approaches in this area, the team also began a review of the companyʼ s emerging technology portfolio.	  
http:// sustainability.baxter.com/access -to-healthcare/product -donations.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Product Donations 
Baxter donates products to help improve access to healthcare worldwide. In 2011, the company donated more than $47 million in  
products to assist people in 75 countries (see map). Baxter donates products that recipient organizations have requested specifically, 
including intravenous (IV) solutions, pharm aceuticals and hemophilia products. Baxter's Global Community Relations team manages 
the donations process, guided by Baxter's Global Product Donation Policy, which covers areas such as licensing, expiration and dating, 
accounting and tax laws, and export requirements.  
The Global Community Relations team works with supply chain managers and others at Baxter to identify opportunities to donate 
products, matching available inventory to patient need. In some cases, the company donates excess products that migh t be classified 
as hazardous waste if destroyed, which has the added benefit of helping Baxter reduce waste and associated expenses.  
To help improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the product donation process and facilitate timely, targeted support to  communities 
in need, Baxter focuses its efforts on proactive strategic product donations. This approach also supports a reduction in waste, since the donor organizations know in advance what to expect from Baxter and so are less likely to receive unneeded  supplies.  
During 2011, Baxter continued to work with its humanitarian aid partners – AmeriCares and Direct Relief International (DRI) – to pre -
position product to be available for emergencies as well as to meet ongoing needs in underserved communities. Am eriCares, an 
international disaster -relief and humanitarian -aid organization, airlifts critical medicines, medical supplies and other aid to areas 
suffering humanitarian crises resulting from natural disasters or political strife. Direct Relief Internation al, a non- profit, non- sectarian 
humanitarian -assistance organization, provides medical assistance to victims of poverty, disaster and civil unrest. Baxter collaborates 
with these two organizations – which have complementary missions, yet different focus ar eas and local partnerships – to develop a 
yearly product donation plan. This helps ensure that Baxter contributes most needed products to stabilize supply in least developed and developing economies, and that the company ʼs products are first on the scene f ollowing disasters and tragedies.  
Baxter products with long shelf lives were shipped to aid partners in the first and fourth quarters of 2011 to provide organizations a steady supply of medicines for ongoing support as well as critical therapies to offer i n times of crisis. For example:  
Horn of Africa  – The region experienced its worst drought in more than half a century in 2011, with widespread famine and cholera 
cases. AmeriCares sent Baxter IV solutions to Somalia from pre -positioned stock as well as add itional shipments in the first quarter of 
2012.  
Pakistan  – DRI shipped medical products to assist in the aftermath of the October 2011 floods.  
Vermont, United States  – A free clinic here received Baxter IV solutions through DRI in the aftermath of Hurrican e Irene as it 
responded to the influx of new patients with respiratory illnesses and nutritional needs.  
El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua  – DRI shipped Baxter products here in early 2011 for hurricane preparedness that 
were used for emergency response during the October mudslides and flooding in these countries.  	  
http:// sustainability.baxter.com/access -to-healthcare/product -donations.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Baxter continues to fine tune its product donations list to provide products that will be first on the scene following disasters and 
tragedies while also helping organizations meet the ir ongoing needs. 
Addressing a Cholera Outbreak in Haiti  
Strategic shipments from Baxter positioned AmeriCares to pull from inventory and provide IV 
solutions to treat dehydration resulting from a severe cholera outbreak in Haiti in October 2010 following the January 2010 earthquake. This potentially deadly diarrheal disease is a risk after any disaster – particularly earthquakes –  due to poor sanitation and a lack of clean water. During 
the outbreak, which continued well into 2011, AmeriCares donations of medicines and supplies 
reached hundreds of patients treated at the Centre de Sante La Grace du Bon Samaritain, a clinic serving the population of Cazale, Haiti and the surrounding rural mountain villages. The clinic is run by AmeriCares partner, Real Hope for Haiti. “The early donations from AmeriCares 
were literally what allowed us to treat the first cholera patients who came to our door – even 
before we knew it was cholera,” said clinic director Lori Moise, RN.  
Responding to Crises in Japan and Thailand  
In 2011, Baxter ʼs long -standing relationships with AmeriCares and DRI helped facilitate timely, targeted support in response to the 
earthquake and tsunami that struck the east coast of Japan in March 2011. Baxter donated more than 4,000 units of intravenous  (IV) 
antibiotics and other IV solutions through AmeriCares. Baxter employees in Japan also worked to ensure that patients in the affected 
areas had access to essential medical products. They reached out to 1,200 peritoneal dialysis (PD) patients in the re gion to make sure 
they could still conduct their treatment. With many roads closed shortly after the disaster, Baxter worked closely with its supply chain partners to provide life -saving dialysis products to patients in need.  
Baxter took part in similar re lief efforts when Thailand was hit by extreme rainfall and flooding in October and November of 2011. The 
company coordinated an emergency shipment of IV solutions to the country and worked closely with the distributors, PD centers, hospitals and the Thai government to ensure that the country ʼs PD patients had access to the supplies needed for their dialysis therapy 
regardless of their location. Baxter also provided first aid kits and other necessities to local residents and offered assistance to Baxter empl oyees impacted by the disaster.  
Baxter continues to work with these donor partners to assess ongoing relief needs in these countries.  
World Federation of Hemophilia Global Alliance for Progress  
Baxter also facilitates access to healthcare through support o f non -profit organizations such as the World Federation of Hemophilia, an 
international non -profit organization dedicated to improving the lives of people with hemophilia and related bleeding disorders. Baxter is 
the founding sponsor of the organization's 10-year Global Alliance for Progress (GAP) program, which works to improve the diagnosis 
and treatment of hemophilia in developing countries. Since its launch in 2003, GAP has diagnosed more than 27,000 patients with bleeding disorders – including 23,000 w ith hemophilia – in 18 countries, and educated and trained more than 13,000 healthcare 
professionals and regulators.  
Through the World Federation of Hemophilia and AmeriCares, Baxter has donated approximately $20 million worth of factor replacement therapy  to those living with hemophilia in underserved countries.  	  
http:// sustainability.baxter.com/access -to-healthcare/product -donations.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Patient Assistance Programs  
Baxter maintains a number of U.S. patient assistance programs to help ensure continuous access to product in the event of an 
insurance lapse, for those who qualify.  
Additionally, in order to support the community and access to healthcare, Baxter is a long -time supporter of Patient Services, Inc. (PSI), 
a non- profit organization that provides financial assistance to patients with rare disorders to help them afford their he alth insurance 
coverage. Over the last 13 years, Baxter has contributed more than $7.5 million to PSI's programs that support patients with bleeding 
disorders, alpha -1 antitrypsin deficiency (AAT) and primary immune disease. Through these efforts, PSI assisted more than 700 
patients with these disorders in 2011.  
In 2010, Baxter launched the myPN Support program, a patient assistance program in the United States aimed at supporting patients who qualify with continued access to certain parenteral nutrition (P N) drug therapy, and in 2011, expanded the program to include both 
U.S. citizens and non -citizens who are legal residents. For more information, please see the section on Baxter ʼs patient and caregiver 
services and programs . 
Other Initiatives  
When healthcare professionals travel overseas to provide charitable medical care to under -served populations, they often work in 
hospitals and clinics lacking modern surgical suit e materials. Baxter's BioSurgery hemostatic and tissue sealant products as well as 
anesthesia products are some of the most requested Baxter products in these situations. During 2011, AmeriCares sent 36 shipments with Baxter products to 24 countries in sup port of medical missions.  
The Global Community Relations team also works closely with the Partnership for Quality Medical Donations (PQMD) to benchmark Baxter ʼs practices and disaster response services. The organization ʼs mission is to collaborate with mem ber companies and 
humanitarian aid organizations that share a commitment to advancing effective drug and medical supply donation practices. In 2011, 
the Global Community Relations team developed an internal training program to educate managers on Baxterʼ s Global Product 
Donation Policy. The program launched in January 2012 as a required training for all Baxter directors and above globally.	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/access -to-healthcare/baxter -international- foundation.html 
© Copyright 2012  Baxter Intern ational Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Case Study:  
The Baxter International Foundation  
Patients receive assistance from an AmeriCares India mobile medical clinic, a proj ect funded in 
part by The Baxter International Foundation. Photo credit: AmeriCares  
The Baxter International Foundation's primary focus is increasing access to healthcare 
worldwide. In 2011, the Foundation donated more than $4 million (actual payments, exc luding 
future commitments) in 23 countries. This included $1.1 million in grants to organizations outside of the United States and more than $700,000 to 774 organizations through the Foundation's Dollars for Doers and Matching Gifts programs that support e mployees' philanthropic 
contributions. The majority of the grants were based on recommendations from Baxter employees, targeted to improve the quality and accessibility of healthcare for the disadvantaged and underserved in local communities. The Foundatio n also supports three prize programs that 
recognize organizations and individuals who demonstrate excellence in community service and healthcare research, and it has a long -standing commitment to the education of employees' 
children through Foundation scho larships.  
Grants awarded in 2011 fulfilled local needs to increase access to dental care, mental health, and other healthcare services for children, the uninsured, veterans, and the elderly. Recipient organizations included the following:  
• Austria  - Nuenerh aus, in Vienna, to expand medical care for the areaʼ s homeless through the hiring of a general practitioner and 
medical assistant and the provision of medical supplies.  
• Costa Rica  - Asociacion Aldeas SOS de Ninos de Costa Rica, in Santa Ana and Tres Rios, to fund two full -time psychology 
professionals to provide mental health services for orphaned children.  
• India  - Plan International India, in New Delhi, to empower the community and enhance the capability of more than 1,500 mothers to 
effectively manage and  respond to children's health needs through home -based care and also to address the primary healthcare 
needs of approximately 5,000 children  through the establishment of a primary health center and outreach health services.  
• United States  - Delta State Univ ersity, in Cleveland, Mississippi, to fund a community counseling center focused on play therapy for 
children.  
See a complete list  of recent Baxter International Foundation grants with additional detail.  
The Baxter International Foundation sponsors prizes that recognize excellence in community service and healthcare research. These 
are among the most prestigious in the healthcare field.  
Foster G. McGaw Award:  Each year, The Baxter International Foundation, in conjunction with the American Hospital Association 
(AHA) and Health Research & Educational Trust, presents the $100,000 Foster G. McGaw Award to a U.S. healthcare organization that 
provides innovative programs that improve community health and well -being. In 2011, Mt. Ascutney Hospital and Health Center in 
Windsor, Vermont received this honor for its broad -based efforts  to improve the lives of its most vulnerable community members. Mt. 
Ascutney Hospital and Health Center is a non -profit community hospital with a renowned inpatient rehabilitation unit, therapeutic pool 
and physical therapy department as well as acute care , transitional care, hospice and skilled nursing care services. The hospital was 
recognized for several major initiatives focused on building a community health infrastructure, preventing substance abuse, providing 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/access -to-healthcare/baxter -international- foundation.html 
© Copyright 2012  Baxter Intern ational Inc. All Rights Reserved.  access to care through a free clinic, con necting residents to social services and providing senior housing. (See Case Study).  
William B. Graham Prize:  Working with the Association of University Programs in Health Administration, The Baxter International 
Foundation awards the William B. Graham Prize for Health Services Research  to recognize major contributions to public health through 
innovative research. Edward H. Wagner, MD, MPH, a professor of health s ervices at the University of Washington School of Public 
Health, received the $50,000 award in 2011 for his work in chronic illness management, cancer care and the aging and geriatric 
populations. Wagner founded the Group Health Research Institute (GHRI) i n 1983, a non- proprietary, public- domain research institution 
within the Group Health healthcare system. As director until 1998, Wagner's commitment to scientific inquiry led the GHRI's mission to 
improve healthcare through leading -edge research, innovatio n and dissemination. In 1992, he established GHRI's MacColl Institute for 
Healthcare Innovation, which he still directs. His team developed the Chronic Care Model, an evidence -based framework that seeks to 
improve the delivery of safe, effective and collab orative care to patients.  
Episteme Award:  In conjunction with the Honor Society of Nursing – Sigma Theta Tau International – the Baxter International 
Foundation awards the Episteme Award  to a nurse who has contributed significantly to nursing knowledge development, application or 
discovery that results in a recognizable and impactful public benefit. Kathleen R. Stevens, EdD, MS, RN, ANEF, FAAN, a professor of 
nursing at the University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio (UTHSCSA), received the $15,000 award in 2011 for her multi -
faceted approach to evidence -based quality improvement. As founding director of the Academic Center for Evidence -Based Practice , a 
UTHSCSA School of Nursing Center of Excellence, Stevens has advanced interdisciplinary evidence -based quality improvement and 
patient safety through workforce education and engagement with the goal of turning research into action and improving healthca re and 
patient outcomes in the community. She also developed the Improvement Science Research Network, a virtual research network that enables its members to conduct collaborative research, exchange information and network. This online network accelerates the testing 
and translation of clinical and health services research into practice.  
 	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2011 -report/difference -in-india.html 
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Case Study:  
Making a Difference in India  
AmeriCares India launched a two -year pilot project in 2011 to provide critical on -site medical 
services and free medicines in Mumbai ʼs Andh eri slums. The mobile medical clinic project 
seeks to reach families who struggle every day with inadequate housing, unsanitary 
conditions, and a lack of safe drinking water and proper nutrition. It is funded partly through a 
two-year $85,000 grant from Th e Baxter International Foundation.  
Six days a week, two fully -equipped mobile medical vans, each staffed with a doctor and 
pharmacy assistant, travel through the slums to assess and treat the immediate health care 
needs of more than 100 patients a day. Eve ry week, about 1,200 patients receive treatment 
through the program. The team also provides proper referrals when necessary.  
“With India ʼs slum population rising each year, AmeriCares mobile medical clinics are more 
crucial than ever,” says Dr. Purvish Parikh, vice president and managing director of 
AmeriCares India Foundation. “Squalid living conditions in the Andheri slums have led to widespread infection, disease, dehydration 
and malnutrition in children under five. Since our program began, we have beco me a trusted primary health care provider and have 
conducted more than 25,000 patient visits —and we expect the project to grow and adapt in upcoming months and years.” In 2012, the 
organization plans to expand the program to three vans to better serve this  vulnerable and disenfranchised population.  
The mobile medical clinic also works to identify and care for patients with chronic diseases 
such as diabetes and hypertension, and to provide them with a continuous supply of free 
medicines. AmeriCares maintains  electronic health records for all patients to monitor the 
program and to facilitate patient follow -up. 
Baxter employees have also volunteered to support this project. In October 2011, approximately 25 Baxter Mumbai employees joined the staff of AmeriCares  in the Andheri 
slums to distribute medicines and collect data from more than 150 households about dietary 
and sanitation habits, and medication and vaccine needs. AmeriCares will use this 
information to better understand the needs in that region and impro ve healthcare delivery to 
this population in the future.
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/ 2011- report/esrd -care.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Case Study:  
Improving Access to End -stage  
Renal Disease Care in Asia Pacific  
Baxter is the world's leading innovator and supplier of peritoneal dialysis (PD) products for 
end-stage renal disease (ESRD), or kid ney failure. PD is a self -administered therapy that 
can be managed by patients at home and can offer numerous benefits. Residual (or remaining) kidney function may be better preserved in patients treated with PD as 
compared with those treated with in -cente r hemodialysis (HD)
1, 2 , 3, 4, 5 , and patients 
treated with PD before transplantation may have better survival rates than those treated 
with in -center HD. 6 
PD home therapy can also be particularly impactful in emerging economies where many 
people with kidney disease go untreated due to expense and lack of access to dialysis treatment centers. Baxter works with 
governments to institute adequate reimbursement for PD and strives to make the therapy cost -effective and accessible through local 
manufacturing, ho me delivery and product innovation, along with training and education.  
In 2008, for example, the government of Thailand implemented a “PD First” policy, encouraging the use of PD over in -center HD to 
expand access to treatment and for patients, while also controlling costs. As a result, the number of PD patients in Thailand has 
increased sharply, from about 1,000 in January 2008 to more than 10,000 at the end of 2011. Baxter projects the number of PD patients in Thailand to reach 35,000 in the next five yea rs. Several countries throughout the Asia Pacific region, including India, Malaysia, 
Taiwan and Vietnam, are evaluating and implementing similar policies to help drive increased access to PD and manage the growing need for renal disease treatment with limi ted healthcare resources. In Hong Kong, which has had a PD First policy for nearly 20 years, 
PD penetration is about 80% of all dialysis patients.  
Training and Education  
Baxter also explores public -private partnerships to provide dialysis training and educ ation that will advance professionals ʼ in-depth 
knowledge of available dialysis treatments, enabling them to adequately inform patients regarding ESRD treatment options. In 2008, the company established Baxter Scientia Asia Pacific, an education and resear ch training program delivered through partnerships with 
Peking University Third Hospital and Sun Yatzen Hospital in Guangzou, China. Baxter Scientia strives to enhance treatment outcomes 
by offering a range of high quality education and research programs o n PD to nephrologists and nurses throughout the region. Since 
inception, approximately 1,200 healthcare professionals in Asia Pacific have participated in the program.  
In 2006, Baxter also introduced a community Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) education and i ntervention initiative in collaboration with 
the Beijing Community Health Service Association. By the end of 2011, the program had trained about 1,000 community doctors in CKD 
identification and treatment. Those physicians have since identified more than 4 ,000 CKD patients from over 20,000 at -risk individuals.  
1Lysaght MJ, Vonesh EF, Gotch F, et al. The influence of dialysis treatment modality on the decline of remaining renal function. ASAIO Trans. 1991;37:598 -604. 
2Misra M, Vonesh E, Van Stone JC, Moore H L, Prowant B, Nolph KD. Effect of cause and time of dropout on the residual GFR: a comparative analysis of the decline of GFR 
on dialysis. Kidney Int. 2001;59:754 -763. 
3Lang SM, Bergner A, Topfer M, Schiffl H. Preservation of residual renal function in dia lysis patients: effects of dialysis -technique -related factors. Perit Dial Int. 2001;21:52 -57. 
4Jansen MA, Hart AA, Korevaar JC, Dekker FW, Boeschoten EW, Krediet RT. Predictors of the rate of decline of residual renal function in incident dialysis patients . Kidney Int. 
2002;62:1046 -1053.  
5Moist LM et al (2000) Predictors of loss of residual renal function among new dialysis patients, J Am Soc Nephrol. 11:556 -564 
6Molnar MZ, Mehrotra R, Duong U, et al. Dialysis modality and outcomes in kidney transplant reci pients. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2012 Feb;7(2):332 -41. Epub 2011 Dec 8.  
	  
 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/community -support/index.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Community Support  
 
 
Baxter and its employees support communities worldwide through financial contributions, product donations, 
base of the pyramid initiatives and employee volunteerism. Increasing access to healthcare, promoting community service and in creasing employee engagement in these efforts are core principles of the company ʼs 
vision and culture.  
• Critical Community Needs  - Baxter makes financial and in -kind donations to address needs such as improving education, 
protecting the environment and helping to improve patient safety.  
• Employee Involvement  - Baxter encoura ges employees to volunteer their time and expertise in their communities and matches 
employees' monetary contributions to eligible U.S. charitable organizations through The Baxter International Foundation Matching 
Gifts Program.  
Baxter ʼs community support efforts benefit people in need worldwide, and strengthen the company's business. These initiatives improve 
community relations, demonstrate Baxter's leadership and engage employees. During 2011, Baxter and The Baxter International Foundation gave more than  $80 million, including product donations, cash contributions and foundation grants.  
The company has contributed more than $311 million over the last five years. 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/community -support/index.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Righ ts Reserved. Baxter and The Baxter International Foundation Charitable Giving* (Dollars in Millions)  
 2007 2008  2009  2010  2011  
Product Donations **  
Products/Patient Assistance Programs  $31.09  $10.86  $18.94  $48.09  $47.17  
Business and Facility Cash Donations   
Within U.S.  $9.26  $12.17  $15.29  $14.66  $12.88  
Outside U.S.  11.16  16.75  15.11  12.56  16.05  
Subtotal   $20.42  $28.92  $30.40  $27.22  $28.93  
The Baxter International Foundation Contributions  
Grants in the U.S.  $1.10  $1.43  $1.10  $1.32  $1.65  
Grants outside the U.S.  0.84 1.39 1.21 1.55 1.14 
Matching Gifts & Dollars for Doers  0.70 0.75 0.76 0.74 0.71 
Prize Programs  0.21 0.19 0.21 0.26 0.23 
Scholarship Program  0.26 0.26 0.28 0.27 0.28 
Subtotal  $3.09  $4.01  $3.56  $4.14  $4.01  
Total Charitable Giving   $54.60  $43.79  $52.90  $79.45  $80.11  
  
*Some subtotals vary slightly from sum of items in category, due to rounding.  
**Variations in Baxter's annual product donations are due to fluctuations in community needs, the regulatory environment, manufacturing processes and marketing.  
The company identifies opportunities to donate and responds to community requests as app ropriate.
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/community -support/critical -community- needs.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Critical Community Needs 
Baxter helps communities worldwide address a broad range of needs, in addition to improving 
access to healthcare. These include improving education, building awareness of chronic diseases, supporting youth services, and protecting the environment. Baxter's business units, functions and manufacturing facilities contributed $28.9 million worldwide in 2011, with more than 55% donated outside the United States.  
Education  
According to the 2011 Nation ʼs Report Card, only 40% of U.S. fourth -graders and 35% of 
eighth -graders perform at or above proficiency for their grade level in math. Just 34% of fourth -
graders, 30% of eighth -graders and 21% of 12th- graders perform on par for their grade level in 
science.1 Advancing elementary  and high school math and science education today sets the 
foundation for biotech discoveries for years to come. As a science - and technology -based 
healthcare company, Baxter has a responsibility to help provide current students as well as 
future generatio ns with opportunities to thrive in these areas. The companyʼ s commitment to 
education focuses on enhancing local math and science education programs to prepare 
students for science careers.  
In 2008, Baxter launched Science@Work: Expanding Minds with Real -World Science, a multi -year commitment to Chicago Public 
Schools (CPS) to support teacher training and student development in healthcare and biotechnology. In the 2010 -2011 school year, the 
program reached nearly 14,000 students and 148 teachers in 55 schoo ls through in -depth biotechnology teacher training and module 
lesson plans. The programʼ s reach decreased from the previous school year, due to administrative changes at CPS that impacted the 
commitment CPS teachers could make to teacher training during th e 2010 -2011 school year. The program has reached a total of more 
than 45,000 students and 530 teachers in more than 150 schools since 2008.  
Baxter also supported eight events for teachers and students, including several opportunities for students to experi ence science first -
hand through interactions with Baxter professionals. In December 2011, for example, Baxter hosted 120 Muchin College Preparatory students at the company's corporate headquarters to show how to combine interests with skills to create stro ng careers. Twenty 
professionals from Communications, Engineering, Finance, Human Resources, Marketing, Product Management, Research and Development and other areas shared their experiences and led interactive career exploration exercises.  
Also in 2011, Ba xter celebrated the grand opening of the Instituto Health Sciences Career Academy ʼs 100,000 square -foot educational 
center in Chicago. The charter school, which currently serves more than 200 freshmen and sophomores and will serve 600 students 
when fully e nrolled, prepares students for success in healthcare careers. The school is helping to address the shortage of Latinos in 
healthcare careers and support Chicago's efforts to provide high -quality education options. Baxter provided start -up funding and hands -
on support to open the Academy, and Baxter scientists and other employee volunteers teach, sponsor lab tours and provide career 
advice to students throughout the year.  
In January 2012, Baxter announced its participation in Summer Jobs+, an initiative spon sored by the White House Council for 
Community Solutions and the U.S. Department of Labor that encourages businesses, non -profit organizations, and government to work 
together to provide pathways to employment for low -income youth in the summer of 2012. Th rough Science@Work, Baxter will provide 
300-500 students the opportunity to participate in activities such as career planning and interview skill development/training with Baxter 
professionals and a five -week summer internship program pairing high school s tudents with Baxter professionals.
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/community -support/critical -community- needs.html  
© Copyrig ht 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Other education initiatives in 2011 included:  
Junior Achievement:  Baxter supports Junior Achievement (JA), a global organization that 
teaches students the fundamentals of the free market and entrepreneurism, in Canada, Ch ina, 
Ireland, multiple countries in Latin America, and the United States. In 2011, 370 Baxter 
employees worldwide volunteered a total of 1,950 hours in support of JA, reaching approximately 
9,075 students in Brazil, Canada, China, Colombia, Ireland, Mexico  and the United States.  
FIRST Robotics:  A founding member of US FIRST® Robotics (For Inspiration and Recognition 
of Science and Technology) in 1992, Baxter continued its long -standing commitment in 2011. 
This organization engages students in mentor -based p rograms that build science, engineering 
and technology skills, inspire innovation, and foster self -confidence and communication and 
leadership abilities. The organizationʼ s engineering competition inspires thousands of students 
across the country to design  and build robots that engage in a sports -like environment. In 2011, 
Baxter continued its support of the Mountain Home, Arkansas High School team – the Bomb 
Squad. The team has worked with volunteers from Baxter ʼs local facility since 1996. Baxter also 
supported the launch of Arkansas FIRST Robotics Incorporated, to bring all levels of FIRST 
competition to students throughout the state.  
Boy Scouts of America: In 2011, engineers from Baxter ʼs facility in Round Lake, Illinois, United 
States created a working robot with local boy scouts to illustrate the integration of science, 
technology, engineering and math. The engineers worked with the scouts to design, build, 
program, and demonstrate the functionality of a robot, in addition to learning about career opportunities in engineering and robotics.  
Additional community support highlights from 2011 include:  
World Hemophilia Day:  In April 2011, Baxter marked the 22nd anniversary of World Hemophilia Day. This day is dedicated to 
promoting awareness of hemophilia and  treatment availability for people living with hemophilia throughout the world. Baxter offices 
around the world participated through various local and regional grassroots events, scholarships, online educational efforts and 
roundtable discussions. The comp any also joined forces with the World Federation of Hemophilia (WFH) to launch Advocacy in Action , 
to help countries advocate for improved and sustained care for people with bleeding disorders. Advocacy in Action , a 5-year initiative 
exclusively supported by a grant from Baxter, works to strengthen WFH's national member organizations' capability to effectively lobby 
their governments on behalf of regional and national bleeding disorder communities. The initiative consists of interactive workshops, 
support t ools, an individualized coaching program and a dedicated WFH staff member to assist with the implementation of advocacy 
and public policy action plans.  
World PI Week: World PI Week, established in April 2011 with support from Baxter, aims to raise the reco gnition and diagnosis of 
primary immunodeficiencies (PI). During the event, organizers around the globe encourage improved PI awareness and diagnosis 
among medical professionals and the general public. Activities in 2011 included government awareness initi atives, PI treatment center 
openings, and others. All reinforced the important message that detecting the disease early can save lives.  
Primary immunodeficiencies (PI) are hereditary genetic defects in the immune system that cause increased susceptibility to a wide 
range of infections, which are often chronic, debilitating, and can be fatal. An estimated 10 million people suffer from PI worldwide, but 
experts estimate that 70 -90% of PI cases remain undiagnosed. Unlike other immune system -related conditions,  available treatments 
can help effectively manage disease symptoms. 	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/community -support/critical -community- needs.html  
© Copyrig ht 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  World Kidney Day:  In March 2011, Baxter organized several World Kidney Day activities worldwide, to raise awareness of chronic 
kidney disease detection, prevention and treatment. Baxter Br azil, for example, in partnership with the Brazilian Society of Nephrology, 
provided communications support for a World Kidney Day health fair targeted at high -risk patients, and coordinated a public awareness 
campaign focused on the benefits of early diag nosis. Two of Brazil ʼs leading nephrologists served as the campaignʼ s spokespersons, 
and the campaign reached more than 25 million Brazilians through newspaper articles and television and radio coverage.  
Baxter Mexico employees coordinated several World Ki dney Day activities, including a physician/patient advocacy organization panel 
that discussed ways to increase access to chronic kidney disease treatment and a public awareness campaign on chronic kidney 
disease prevention and early detection. In Singapore , Baxter launched an online resource, www.mykidneyplan.com , which helps 
Singaporeans with chronic kidney disease to take control of their condition early. Baxter worked with healthcare providers, patients and 
caregivers to tailor content and resources to Singaporean lifestyle needs and the country ʼs healthcare system.  
Baxter Singapore also supported the Kidney Dialysis Foundation Public Forum 2011 on preventing kidney failure related to diabetes, 
and worked with T an Tock Seng Hospital on a “Protect Your Heart, Save Your Kidneys” forum attended by nearly 200 people.  
1Based on the 2009 Nation ʼs Report Card assessment – the latest year that science proficiency was evaluated.	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/community -support/employee- involvement.html 
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Employee Involvement  
Employee Volunteerism  
In 2011, more than 6,200 Baxter employees volunteered more than 131,000 hours in their 
communities, helping to address local concerns such as healthcare, the environment and education. Employee involvement takes many forms, including volunteering at a loc al school or 
blood drive, serving at a hospital or food pantry, participating in community park clean -up days, 
or joining a local non -profit organization board or committee. Employees at each Baxter site 
select volunteer activities to undertake and organiz ations to support, as they can best 
determine the most relevant and highest impact projects.  
In 2011, Baxter sponsored its third annual "Baxter World Environment Week" to promote sustainable living in employees' communities and encourage employees to supp ort the 
company's commitment to creating a more sustainable world. "Understanding Our Impact" was 
the theme of the 2011 event, which again this year was held the first week of June to correspond with the United Nation ʼs World Environment Day. More than 50 Baxter 
facilities worldwide sponsored events that promoted earth -friendly 
activities and sustainable living, while encouraging employees to learn more about ways to support Baxterʼ s commitment to 
sustainability. Highlights included:  
Vienna and Orth, Austri a - Employees labeled food in Baxterʼ s 
cafeterias with its carbon dioxide footprint to educate employees about greenhouse gas emissions related to food production and 
transport. 
Manesar, Waluj and Alathur, India  - More than 300 employees 
and their families  planted about 260 trees at Baxterʼ s locations in 
the three cities and another 300 were distributed for them to plant 
in their local communities. Additionally, at Waluj, more than 35 employees had their vehicles checked to ensure compliance with 
anti-pollu tion standards.  
Tunis, Tunisia  - Employees attended seminars on how to 
conserve water and on the importance of renewable energy.  
Employees also participated in volunteer activities related to 
biodiversity activities  and Baxter ʼs Science@Work: Expanding 
Minds with Real -World Science  initiative.  
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/community -support/employee- involvement.html 
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Making a Meaningful Difference Month  
Each October, Baxter employees in the Asia Pacific region volunteer time and contribute funds to 
"Making a Meaningful Difference" month activities to improve the lives of people in local communities and care for the envir onment. Highlights from 2011 included:  
Beijing, China  – Employees spent two hours collecting garbage and debris on the world -
renowned Great Wall.  
Auckland, New Zealand – Employees painted the walls and helped plant gardens at the new 
youth facility of the Youthline Manukau Centre.  
Employees can track their efforts using Baxter's internal volunteerism website. Since 2008, the company has recognized employees 
who volunteer for 40 or more hours of community work during the year. Employees who donate 75 or more  hours a year are eligible for 
a random drawing in which selected employees choose an approved charitable group to which Baxter will donate $1,000 in the 
employee's name. Thirty employees were selected in 2011, out of 454 who reached that level globally. M ore than 700 Baxter 
employees volunteered at least 40 hours during the year.  
In the United States, The Baxter International Foundation Dollars for Doers program provides grants to qualified organizations in which 
Baxter employees have actively volunteered at least six months of the year. Past recipients include hospitals and hospices, humane 
societies, emergency shelters, historical societies, volunteer fire departments, substance -abuse prevention services and youth service 
organizations. In 2011, the progr am provided 60 grants to 48 organizations for a total of $24,000  
Employee Giving 
Baxter employees also contribute financial resources to worthy causes. The Baxter International Foundation Matching Gift Program matches employee donations of $25 or more, up to $5,000, to non- profit, tax -exempt U.S. hospitals and healthcare agencies, schools 
and cultural organizations. In 2011, The Baxter International Foundation matched gifts to eligible organizations submitted by nearly 2,000 U.S. -based employees from 41 sta tes. Gifts totaled $680,000, which doubled the dollar impact to 714 charitable organizations.	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2011 -report/foster -mcgaw.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Case St udy: Honoring Community Service for More Than 
25 Years  
In 1986, the American Hospital Association (AHA)/Health Research and Educational 
Trust (HRET) and the Baxter Al legiance Foundation (now the Baxter International 
Foundation) created the Foster G. McGaw Prize to recognize U.S. hospitals that have improved the health and well- being of the people they serve through 
community -wide innovative collaborations. More than 25  years later, the Prizeʼ s 
founding organizations say that despite sweeping changes in the way healthcare is 
delivered, hospitals and their communities continue to forge strong partnerships to 
promote a healthier America.  
“It ʼs inspiring to me how enduring this Prize has been,” says Donna Melkonian, 
AHAʼ s vice president of member relations. “It remains as relevant today as the day it 
was initiated.” One of the most esteemed community service honors in healthcare, the winners of this annual $100,000 Prize var y in size, location, and in the 
populations they serve, yet they all demonstrate a passion and commitment to making their communities healthier and more vital, Melkonian says. “All the winners are proof that the integration of the healthcare organization w ith its community is the 
cornerstone of a healthier America. “  
Ten years ago, for example, many of the prize ʼs finalists were focused on addressing prenatal care after several studies suggested that 
inadequate treatment in this area was a strong predictor of low infant birth weight, prematurity and infant mortality. Today, many health 
delivery organizations are focusing their efforts on reducing growing obesity rates.  
Itʼs perhaps not surprising that many former winners continue their commitment to communit y service long after receiving the award, 
Melkonian says. For example, in 1992, when Mt. Sinai Hospital Medical Center in Chicago, Illinois, received the Prize, the organization focused on addressing the communityʼ s lack of adequate housing, numerous lead poisoning incidents and a growing epidemic of drug -
addicted pregnant women. In 2011, Mt. Sinai Hospital – now part of Sinai Health System – works to alleviate the impact of childhood 
asthma in inner -city communities by teaming up with housing, legal and ot her community organizations to provide asthma management 
education and free resources to families of children with the disease.  
While the focus of community healthcare programs has shifted through the years, their mission remains the same: to identify the most 
pressing issues in a community and then work with others to address them. “The more models that we can hold up for people of approaches that work, the more we ʼre going to inspire others to promote the health of their communities,” Melkonian says. She says 
that in the decades to come, the bond between the community and its healthcare providers will only become stronger – making it all the 
more important that the Foster G. McGaw Prize continues its support of healthcare organizations that deliver excelle nt community 
service.  
She also adds that the support the Prize has received from the Baxter International Foundation has been an essential part of its long -
standing legacy and the respect it has garnered among hospitals and health delivery organizations.  
“The fact that the Prize has existed for over 25 years is a testament to the strong relationship of the Prize ʼs founders,” Melkonian says.” 
Itʼs been critical to the Prizeʼ s success that our organizations have worked so well together to promote these ideals  out in the healthcare 
field.”
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2011 -report/schweitzer -fellows -program.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rig hts Reserved.  Case Study: Chicago Area Schweitzer Fellows Program  
Since 1996, the Chicago area Schweitzer Fellows Program, like its national counterpart, 
has worked to improve the health and well- being of poor and underserved individuals 
living in an d around the city of Chicago by developing public health professionals with a 
lifelong commitment to service. The Baxter International Foundation, which has a similar 
focus, has provided the Schweitzer program with nearly $850,000 in grant funding since 
that first year. Schweitzer Fellows – all graduate -level health professional students – 
participate in a 13 -month program that includes their provision of a minimum of 200 hours 
of direct service through a community -based organization. Fellows also participa te in 
several public symposia on health, as well as community service days, in which the entire 
group of Fellows works together to build morale, strengthen ties and build awareness of 
the Schweitzer Fellowship Program in the larger community. Fellows recei ve a stipend of 
$2,000.  
The program is committed to carrying out Dr. Albert Schweitzer ʼs mission of “reverence for 
life,” says Ray Wang, director of the Chicago -area Schweitzer Fellows program, which is 
facilitated by the Health and Medicine Policy Researc h Group. “Since the program ʼs founding, more than 430 Schweitzer Fellows have 
designed and implemented innovative projects that have helped tens of thousands of underserved Chicago families and individuals improve their health and well -being,” Wang says. “ The Fellows have contributed more than 86,000 hours of service and have enabled 
over 170 clinics, schools, social service agencies and churches to boost their capacity to serve Chicagoʼ s must vulnerable 
communities.” 
Project design emphasizes activities th at are enduring, to ensure the project will continue to benefit the community after an individual ʼs 
Fellowship has ended. In 2011, for example, Schweitzer Fellow Tara Berkson, a graduate student in the College of Pharmacy at the 
University of Illinois at C hicago, began a project to promote healthy lifestyle choices for patients with diabetes at CommunityHealth, a 
free clinic for uninsured Chicago residents.  
Berkson instructs patients on insulin administration and proper nutrition. She also helps them develo p wellness prescriptions. 
“Essentially, I sit down with patients and find out about their nutrition habits and food preferences, and we set goals for them to work on, 
such as eating more vegetables,” Berkson says. “Then we break the goal down even further into weekly objectives. I have them start by 
trying to integrate vegetables into every dinner, for example.”  
Berkson also organizes weekly visits with patients to a local farmer ʼs market. The visit begins with a lesson on organic and sustainable 
fruits and  vegetables and a discussion about what is in season, why that matters, and what dishes that can be prepared from them. 
Attendees also receive gift certificates to purchase items at the market.  
The long -term vision for the Schweitzer program is to cultivat e lifelong leaders in service. “A majority of Schweitzer alumni remain 
engaged with helping poorly resourced communities beyond their fellowship year,” Wang says. To support this, six years ago the Health 
and Medicine Policy Research Group launched its Fel lows for Life Program, which provides ongoing networking, volunteer and skill -
building events for past fellows. The Baxter International Foundation is a founding sponsor.  
In a recent survey of Chicago Area Schweitzer alumni, 98% indicated that their Fellow ship experience continued to be an important 
influence in their personal and professional lives and 90% said that their current careers reflect that goal. Dr. Robert McKersie, who was 
chosen to be one of the first Schweitzer Fellows when the program began in 1996, is one example of how Fellows for Life continue to develop as leaders and remain engaged with vulnerable populations.  
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/quick -links/case -studies/2011 -report/schweitzer -fellows -program.html  
© Copyright 2012  Baxter International Inc. All Rig hts Reserved.  McKersie spent his fellowship year directing a musical theater production with inmates at the Cook County Juvenile Detention Cent er in 
Chicago, helping these young people develop self -confidence and communications skills. Sixteen years later, he ʼs still working with the 
underserved, providing much -needed volunteer medical services to thousands of patients in several small Nepalese v illages near the 
Tibetan border. He also serves as a mentor for current Chicago Fellows.  
“The Schweitzer Fellowship showed me that a collective effort is always a powerful tool for change,” McKersie says. “I ʼm still in contact 
with several of my year ʼs Fel lows, and I fondly remember the group forums that we all participated in. Iʼm also keenly aware that I would 
never have been able to participate in a project like this without the immense support of many people all working together for the 
common good.”  	  
 
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/index.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Public Policy  
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
  
Many legislative issues affect Baxter's business —reimbursement, tax, trade and a variety of regulatory 
concerns. Baxter's Government Affairs and Public Policy (GAPP) team works with lawmakers, governments 
and policymakers aroun d the globe to support patient access to the company's life -saving therapies, increase 
understanding of the benefits of those therapies, address barriers to care and explore possible solutions. This work involves dealing directly with governments to improv e the regulatory environment and reimbursement 
structure for Baxter's therapies, and collaborating with clinicians, non -governmental organizations and patient 
groups to increase access to care for millions of patients worldwide.  
The Public Policy Committee of Baxter's Board of Directors oversees Baxter's government affairs activities. The committee 
reviews Baxter's political contributions, positions on pending legislation and political advocacy activities. For additional 
information on Baxter's government a ffairs activities, please refer to  Baxter's  2011 Political  Contributions Report . This report 
includes details about contributions made by Baxter and Baxter's  Political Action Committee, BAXPAC, in 2011 as well as 
information about Baxter's membership in certain trade and industry groups.  
Healthcare Reform  
Advancing Advocating for Patient Access within Insurance Exchanges  
In response to inefficiencies, rising c osts and disparities in the level of care within the healthcare system, large -scale healthcare 
reform efforts are underway in the United States to expand access to care and reduce expense. Baxter remains committed to advocating for changes that are in the best interests of its patients.  
	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/index.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Health insurance exchanges —electronic platforms implemented by states which individuals and small employers can use to 
identify and compare private health plans or enroll in public health coverage —are mandated by the United States ʼ 2010 Patient 
Protection and Affordable Care Act. The company supports its patients with rare diseases in advocating health insurance 
exchanges to: recognize rare diseases; include adequate number of in -network providers and allow patients with extr emely rare 
diseases access to out -of-network providers without incurring excessive costs; access to all medically necessary therapies; 
access to all sites of care determined by healthcare provider and patient; ensure cost sharing does not discriminate or u nfairly 
target any patient or rare disease group; access to third party cost sharing (premium, co -pay and co -insurance) assistance and 
due process and transparency to management utilization and medical necessity determinations, appeals and grievances.  
Adhering to the Physician Payments Sunshine Act 
Beginning January 1, 2013, companies operating in the United States that manufacture covered drugs, devices, biologics and 
medical supplies will be required to report to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Serv ices (CMS) all payments (such as 
consulting fees, travel and lodging, meals, education grants and royalties) given to U.S. physicians and teaching institutions that 
total more than $100. The first report will cover payments made in 2012. Baxter is working toward implementing the new federal 
requirements that ensure its disclosures are complete and accurate.  
Supporting Rare Disease Research through the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research 
Institute (PCORI) 
Baxter ʼs pharmaceutical products have rarely been the subject of comparative studies, as these tend to focus on prevalent 
diseases rather than the rare diseases related to Baxter ʼs therapies. However, Baxter has and will continue to support efforts by 
patient groups to ensure that any rare disease research th at is conducted by governments be reviewed and guided by a special 
advisory committee on rare diseases, composed of scientific and health services experts, clinicians, patients, and others with 
expertise in rare diseases. A requirement for such an advisory  body, supported by Baxter, was included in the Patient Protection 
and Affordable Care Act to guide the work of the newly established Patient -Centered Outcomes Research Institute (PCORI). 
Baxter will work with patient groups and other stakeholders to insur e its implementation by PCORI as that new agency begins its 
work.  
Providing Internet Resources to Patients and Customers 
To further assist patients and customers in implementing healthcare reform at the state level, Baxter created an Internet tool that 
is included in the companyʼ s patient and customer -focused websites below. These sites provide specific information for patients 
living with hemophilia and end -stage renal disease, as well as hospital customers:  
• Hemophilia  
• End Stage  Renal  Disease  
• Acute  and Ambulatory Centers  
 	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/index.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Safety and Quality  
Advocating for Safety within Australia’s Medicines Compounding Environment  
Compounding, a process by which doses of medicine are mixed and prepared before administering to pat ients, has changed 
significantly over the years as technology has become more sophisticated. Baxter, which operates pharmacy compounding 
centers worldwide through Baxter Pharmacy Services, has been a key industry advocate of modifying safety regulations to  keep 
pace with these changes. These efforts have been notable recently in Australia, where Baxter has six compounding centers licensed by Australiaʼ s Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) that provide patient -specific sterile injectable compounded 
soluti ons for hospitals throughout the country.  
Recognizing the high risk nature of many of the drugs involved in compounding, the TGA proposed a regulatory amendment to 
the Commonwealthʼ s Therapeutic Goods Act 1989 to replace these regulations with more appropr iate requirements for todayʼ s 
compounding practices. The changes under discussion will ensure that a far greater proportion of sterile injectable doses are 
prepared under appropriate aseptic Good Manufacturing Practice conditions. For several years, Baxter  has advocated for these 
changes, working in collaboration with the TGA, politicians and other stakeholders.  
The TGA is expected to publish its final proposal for regulatory amendment this year.  
Continuing to Advance Standards in Device Identification 
Baxter strongly supports efforts to implement standards for the healthcare industry regarding personal identification measures 
for medical devices. The company has advocated for legislation to promote these measures, including the Unique Device Identification Law passed in 2007 in the U.S., and endorses the GS1, an association which designs and manages a global 
system of supply chain standards.  
Baxter believes that industry -wide adoption of these standards will improve patient safety and will drive increased ef ficiency and 
integrity within healthcare. To this end, the company is working with industry partners to implement GS1 standards for 
healthcare. These include standard location numbers that simplify how customers order and are invoiced for products and 
standard product numbers that make it easier to consistently identify Baxter products. Industry adoption of GS1 healthcare 
standards will help ensure that Baxter products are moved correctly and efficiently throughout the supply chain. Ultimately, 
adoption of these standards will enable healthcare professionals to ensure they are administering the right product to the right 
patient at the right time. See Produ ct Integrity . 
Access to Healthcare 
Medicare IVIG Access Act 
Roughly 10,000 Medicare beneficiaries in the United States have been diagnosed with one of the approximately 150 different 
diseases classified as primary immunodeficiency diseases (PIDD). PIDD pr events patients from fighting infections, making the 
body highly susceptible to a range of conditions. Intravenous immune globulin (IVIG) therapy is vital in treating patients with PIDD. For many people with this condition, home treatment is appropriate be cause of the increased risk of infection associated 
with receiving care in other health care settings.  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/index.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  In 2003, Congress changed the law to allow Medicare beneficiaries with PIDD to receive IVIG treatments at home. However, the 
law failed to include reimbu rsement for the necessary nursing services and supplies.  
In May 2011, Representatives Kevin Brady (Republican, Texas) and Doris Matsui (Democrat, California) and Senators John Kerry (Democrat, Massachusetts) and Lamar Alexander (Republican, Tennessee) intr oduced companion legislation to fix this 
problem — H.R. 1845/S. 960, the “Medicare IVIG Access Act.” Baxter supports this bill, and is lobbying for its enactment, which 
would provide Medicare reimbursement for the nursing services and supplies associated wi th home infusion of IVIG therapy for 
PIDD patients.  
Cuts to Medicare Physician Reimbursement 
For many years, Medicare beneficiaries with PIDD received IVIG treatments in their physicians ʼ offices. Medicare Part B 
reimbursed physicians for office administra tion of drugs at the Average Wholesale Price (AWP) minus five percent. While AWP 
was higher than what physicians actually pay for the drugs, the reimbursement rate was justified by assuming the difference was used to offset drug management costs.  
In 2003, the Medicare Modernization Act (MMA) was signed into law, changing the basis for Part B drug reimbursement from 
AWP to Average Sales Price (ASP) plus 6 percent. For many physicians, this change resulted in significant reductions in 
reimbursement, prompting  many to discontinue IVIG administration to Medicare beneficiaries in their office. As a result, patients 
were forced to travel greater distances to receive their treatment in hospital outpatient departments, where they are more 
susceptible to infections.  
In 2011, Congress debated legislation to lower the federal budget deficit. During this process, some in Congress considered 
lowering physician reimbursement for Part B drugs from ASP +6% to ASP +4% or lower, as well as changes to the ASP 
calculation altogether. These changes would have had the potential to exacerbate the existing problem.  
In response, Baxter GAPP lobbied to maintain the current method of reimbursing Medicare providers for the administration of 
drugs in their office, stressing that the alter native would subject patients with chronic, immune -compromising conditions to 
receive care in suboptimal sites and risk exposure to life -threatening infections. Ultimately, Congress chose not to make 
alterations to the Medicare physician reimbursement.  
Educating Health Policy Makers in China and Taiwan about Access to Dialysis Care  
As a leading provider of products for peritoneal dialysis (PD), the predominant home -dialysis therapy for patients with end -stage 
renal disease (ESRD), or irreversible kidney fai lure, Baxter works with governments worldwide to increase access to PD. This 
can provide cost and quality -of-life benefits compared to in -center dialysis.  
In 2011, Baxter ʼs GAPP department in China, supported by Asia Pacific GAPP, organized seminars for ke y health policy makers 
in China and Taiwan on the new U.S. dialysis payment program. The session in China, co -organized by the China National 
Health Economics Institute, included representatives from the Ministry of Health (MOH), national and provincial pr icing agencies 
and other relevant policy makers. Taiwanʼ s event drew in members of the Bureau of National Health Insurance (BNHI).  
The seminars highlighted recent U.S. legislative and regulatory changes to ensure that Medicare payment for PD is equal to th at 
of in-center hemodialysis (HD). The majority of ESRD patients are suitable for both dialysis treatments, and research shows that 
PD has equal, or in some patient groups, better clinical outcomes than HD and may be more cost -effective in Asia Pacific 	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/index.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved.  countries. Despite these benefits, PD remains underutilized in the Asia Pacific region.  
The seminars helped to further raise awareness to enhance patient access to PD. Also as a result, Taiwanʼ s BNHI recently 
announced a new five -year plan to enhance chronic kidney disease and ESRD patient care by increasing the percentage of PD 
patients (of the total dialysis patient population) through various initiatives. These include educational efforts targeting patients 
and healthcare providers, investigations into case s of PD patient issues, and review and adjustment of the PD reimbursement 
system.	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/political -contribution -report.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter Inte rnational Inc. All Rights Reserved.  2011 Political Contributions Report  
Every country has different laws and regulations around engaging in the political process. Baxter respects local political customs and 
obeys all laws. The company’s Code  of Conduct , which sets forth the core principles that govern Baxter’s business practices, contains 
a section on P ublic Affairs and Political Activities, including rules governing participation in the political process, who to contact with 
questions and other information.  
The Public Policy Committee of Baxter's Board of Directors oversees Baxter's government affairs p rogram and Political Action 
Committee, BAXPAC, reviewing annually political contributions, positions on pending legislative, and other political advocacy 
initiatives.  
This Political Contributions Report provides information about corporate contributions ma de in the United States by Baxter as well as 
contributions made by BAXPAC. It also includes information about Baxter's lobbying expenses and membership in trade and industry 
groups.  
• Corporate  Contributions  
• Baxter  Political  Action  Committee  
• Lobbying Expenses  
• Certain  Memberships  
Corporat e Contributions  
In the United States, Baxter contributed $34,000 to state candidates in 2011 after approval from the BAXPAC Board. U.S. law does 
not allow companies to make contributions to federal candidates. As discussed below, contributions to federal c andidates may be 
made by BAXPAC.  
Regarding the U.S. Supreme Court decision in the  Citizens United  case in 2010, which broadened the ability of corporations to make 
independent political expenditures in the context of federal elections (although not the abi lity to make direct contributions to federal 
candidates), Baxter has not made independent political expenditures or contemplated this form of activity in the past, and does not anticipate that the decision will impact how the company contributes or engages  in the political process. Baxter strives to make 
contributions to candidates who champion and protect the legislative interests of the company, its employees and patients, without regard for the private political preferences of Baxter’s officers and execu tives. In 2011, Baxter did not participate in any ballot 
measures and it is not generally Baxter’s practice to do so.  
Baxter’s Corporate Contributions to U.S. State Candidates, 2011  
Member  District  Party  Amount  
California  
Blumenfield, Bob  H40 D $1,000  
Fletcher, Nathan  H40 R $1,000  
Lara, Ricardo  H50 D $1,000  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/political -contribution -report.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter Inte rnational Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Leno, Mark  S3 D $1,000  
Liu, Carol  H21 D $1,000  
Monning, Bill  H27 R $1,000  
Perea, Henry  S31 D $1,000  
Perez, Speaker John  H46 D $1,000  
Price, Curren  
 S26 D $1,000  
Steinberg, President Darrell  S6 D $2,000  
Strickland, Tony  S19 R $1,000  
Wagner, Don  H70 R $1,000  
Florida  
Garcia, Rene  S110  R $500  
Grimsley, Denise  S17 R $500  
Hudson, Matt  R101  R $500  
Negron, Joe  S28 R $500  
Georgia  
Channell, Mickey  H116  R $1,000  
Cooper, Sharon  H41 R $250  
Jergu son, Sean  H22 R $250  
Ralston, David  H7 R $250  
Williams, Tommie  S19 R $250  
Illinois  
Cole, Sandy  H62 R $250  
Cross, Tom  HD84  R $1,250  
Cullterton, John J.  SD6 D $1,750  
Duffy, Dan  S26 R $250  
Feigenholtz, Sara  H12 D $1,000  
Harmon, Dan  SD39  D $500  
Hunte r, Mattie  SD33  D $500  
Kotowski, Dan  SD33  D $500  
Link, Terry  S30 D $1,000  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/political -contribution -report.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter Inte rnational Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Madigan, Michael J.  H22 D $1,750  
Mayfield, Rita  HD60  D $250  
Osmond, JoAnn  H61 R $500  
Pritchard, Robert  H70 R $500  
Radogno, Christine  S41 D $1,250  
Sullivan, Ed  H51 R $250  
Trotter, Donne E.  S17 D $500  
Mississippi  
Bryan, Hob  S7 D $500  
Bryant, Phil  Gov R $1,000  
Burton, Terry  S31 R $500  
Coleman, Linda  H29 D $500  
Clarke, Eugene "Buck"  S22 R $500  
Reeves, Tate  Lt. Gov  R $1,000  
Simmons, Willie  S16 D $500  
Watson, Percy  H103  D $500 
Total  $34,000  
Baxter's Corporate Contributions to 501(C)(4) and 527 Organizations, 2011  
Membership in 501(c)(4) and 527 organizations is another avenue through which Baxter engages to advance the company's 
interests and those of its patients.  
Baxter contributed the following to these 501(c)(4) organizations during 2011.  
The Ripon Society  $25,000  
Third Way  $32,000  
Total*  $57,000  
Through its GAPP team, Baxter contributed $50,000 to the following 527 organizations during 2011.  
Democratic Governors Ass ociation  $25,000  
Republican Governors Association  $25,000  
Total*  $50,000  
*Only includes organizations for which GAPP pays the annual dues.  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/political -contribution -report.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter Inte rnational Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Baxter Political Action Committee 
U.S. law does not allow companies to make contributions to federal candidates. E ligible U.S. employees can make voluntary individual 
contributions to Baxter's Political Action Committee, BAXPAC, to support U.S. federal and state candidates. BAXPAC is overseen by 
the BAXPAC Chairman, Vice Chair, and Treasurer/Secretary, as well as its Contribution Advisory Board. All BAXPAC officers and 
members of the Contribution Advisory Board are Baxter employees from various business groups, regions and franchises. BAXPAC 
operates in accordance with all relevant federal and state laws. More informat ion is available on the  Federal  Election Commission  
website . BAXPAC strives to contribute to candidates who champion and protect the legislative interests of Baxter, its employees and its 
patients. Contribut ions by BAXPAC are made without regard for the private political preferences of Baxterʼ s officers and executives. 
BAXPAC made $146,000 in contributions in 2011.  
BAXPAC Contributions to U.S. Federal and State Candidates, 2011  
Member  Federal House  Federal S enate  State Candidate  District  Party  Amount  
California  
Becerra, Xavier  X   CA 31  D $1,000  
Matsui, Doris  X   CA 5  D $5,000  
Roybal -Allard, 
Lucille  X   CA 34  D $1,000  
Schiff, Adam  X   CA 29  D $5,000  
Florida  
Rubio, Marco   X  FL R $1,000  
Wasserman Schul tz, 
Debbie  X   FL 20  D $1,000  
Illinois  
Dold, Robert  X   IL 10  R $1,500  
Hultgren, Randall  X   IL 14  R $1,000  
Roskam, Peter  X   IL 6 R $2,000  
Shimkus, John  X   IL 19  R $2,000  
Walsh, Joe  X   IL 8 R $2,500  
Indiana  
Coats, Daniel   X  IN R $1,000  
Lugar, Richard   X  IN R $1,000  
Maryland  
Hoyer, Steny  X   MD 5  D $6,000  
Michigan  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/political -contribution -report.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter Inte rnational Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Camp, Dave  X   MI 4 R $2,000  
Dingell, John  X   MI 15  D $2,000  
Mississippi  
Thompson, Bennie  X   MS 2  D $2,500  
North Carolina  
Apodava, Thomas    X NC 48  R $500  
Berger, Philip    X NC 28  R $1,000  
Bingham, Stanley    X NC 33  R $500  
Butterfield, George  X   NC 1  D $3,000  
Hackney, Joe    X NC 54  D $500  
Hartsell, Fletcher    X NC 36  R $500  
Hise, Ralph    X NC 47  R $500  
Howard, Julia    X NC 79  R $750  
Gillespie, Robert    X NC 85  R $500 
Nesbitt, Martin    X NC 49  D $500  
Purcell, William    X NC 25  D $500  
Shuler, Heath  X   NC 11  D $1,000  
Tillis, Thomas    X NC 98  R $1,000  
Vaughan, Donald    X NC 27  D $500  
Walter Dalton  
Campaign 
Committee    X NC D $500  
New Jersey  
Pallone, Frank    X NJ 6 D $2,000  
Pascrell, William    X NJ 8  D $1,000  
New York  
Lee, Christopher    X NY 26  R $5,000  
Towns, Edolphus    X NY 10  D $1,000  
Ohio  
Amstutz, Ron    X OH 3  R $1,000  
Batchelder, William    X OH 69  R $1,000  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/political -contribution -report.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter Inte rnational Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Burke, David    X OH 26  R $500  
Carey, John    X OH 87  R $1,000  
Jones, Shannon    X OH 7  R $1,000  
Niehaus, Tom    X OH 14  R $1,000  
Wachtmann, Lynn    X OH 75  R $1,000  
Widener, Chris    X OH 10  R $1,000  
Pennsylvania  
Brubaker, Michael    X PA 36  R $500  
Conklin, H. Scott    X PA 77  D $500  
Corman, Jacob    X PA 34  R $1,000  
Pileggi, Dominic    X PA 9  R $500  
Tennessee  
Blackburn, Marsha  X   TN 7  R $2,000  
Texas  
Brady, Kevin  X   TX 8 R $1,000  
Burgess, Michael  X   TX 26  R $1,000  
Gonzalez, Charles  X   TX 20  D $2,000  
King, Tracy     TX 80  D $500  
Kolkhorst, Lois   X TX 13  R $1,000  
Nelson, Jane    X TX 12  R $2,000  
Patrick, Dan    X TX 7 R $2,000  
Uresti, Carlos    X TX 19  D $1,000  
Zerwas, John    X TX 28  R $1,000  
Virginia  
Cantor, Eric  X   VA 7  R $5,000  
Wisconsin  
Kind, Ron  X   WI 3 D $5,000  
Ryan, Paul  X   WI 1 R $1,000  
Total  $92,500  
 
 	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/political -contribution -report.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter Inte rnational Inc. All Rights Reserved.  Other BAXPAC Contributions. 2011  
Payee  Amount  
Building Relationships in Diverse Geographic Environments PAC  $5,000  
Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee  $5,000  
Every Republican is Crucial  $5,000  
John S. Fund  $1,000  
National Republican Congressional Committee  $5,000  
National Republican Senatorial Committee  $15,000  
New Democrat Coalition PAC  $5,000  
Orrinpac  $1,000  
Tenn PAC Inc  $1,500  
The Freedom Project - Friends of John Boehner Committee  $10,000  
Total  $53,500  
Lobbying Expenses  
In 2011, Baxter spent approximately $2,407,000 on federal lobbying -related activities in the United States, to promote policies that 
support the company's objectives. This amount includes the salaries and overhead expenses of Baxter emplo yees dedicated to this 
area, the value of time and related expenses of internal partners (such as corporate counsel), payments to external consultants and 
lobbyists, and trade association dues used for lobbying. Baxter adheres to all federal, state and loc al laws to ensure compliance in 
this area. Outside the United States, Baxter also complies with all applicable laws and regulations.  
Certain Memberships 
Baxter maintains memberships in numerous industry and trade groups including organizations that engage in lobbying activity. The 
table below includes the amount that Baxter has been notified has been spent on political activity during 2011 by any organization to 
which to the best of its knowledge Baxter paid more than $50,000 in dues or otherwise during the  year. Baxter believes that 
membership in these organizations is generally consistent with the company's interests as well as those of its shareholders, 
customers and patients. Even when Baxter does not share all of the views of one of these organizations,  it believes that membership 
is worthwhile because such organizations encourage dialogue on important policy issues and help to move the industry to a 
consensus on such issues.  
Political Expenditures by Certain U.S. -based Trade Associations, 2011*  
AdvaMed  $22,500  
Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO)  $131,400  	  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/political -contribution -report.html  
© Copyright 2012 Baxter Inte rnational Inc. All Rights Reserved.  California Healthcare Institute  $17,000  
Healthcare Institute of New Jersey  $305  
Kidney Care Partners  $13,800  
Plasma Protein Therapeutics Association (PPTA)  $12,420  
*Only includes groups of w hich GAPP is aware. These dues are paid by Baxter’s businesses and not by GAPP.  
View Baxter's  2010 Political  Contributions  Report , 2009 Political  Contributions  Report and 2008 Political  Contributions  Report . 
 