 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/chairman -ceo-letter.html  
© Copy right 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
2 
From the Chairman and CEO  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dear Stakeholders,  
Baxter’s vitality as a healthcare enterprise, and our ability to deliver on our commitments to our stakeholders, depends on our embrace of the 
new. This includes not only the scientific innovations that define our service to patients and healthcare providers; it also encompasses  new 
ways of doing business that advance our goals as a publicly traded company and global corporate citizen.  
In March 2014 we announced our intention to launch the BioScience portion of our business as a fully independent company. Cha rting a new 
course as  two separate entities will place both organizations in an even stronger position to expand global patient access to current t herapies, 
introduce new products addressing unmet needs and concentrate on other key priorities and objectives.  
I am confident tha t each company will build on our legacy of sustainable development grounded in responsible business practices to create 
lasting social, environmental and economic value. In fact, this year marks the 15th annual edition of Baxter’s sustainability report; an d as you will 
see here, our commitment remains unwavering as we strive to benefit our broad stakeholder base.  
In 2013 Baxter decreased greenhouse gas emissions, energy use and water use. We increased patient access to market leading th erapies in 
developing  countries. We ensured our products are first on the scene in disaster -stricken communities. We helped advance STEM education to 
cultivate the future of scientific innovation. Yet for every milestone achieved, there are more opportunities to make a diffe rence for the 
communities we serve.  
Our executive Sustainability Steering Committee is now assessing our strategy in light of our changing corporate structure an d stakeholder 
expectations, and we are updating our goals to reflect our aspirations.  
As always, the needs of our stakeholders inspire us to ever greater levels of accomplishment. Every day our employees worldwide are focu sed 
on new opportunities to integrate our sustainability principles across our strategies and operations – and I urge them to maint ain the pace. 
Together we will continue making an impact for generations to come in pursuit of our mission to save and sustain lives.  
Robert L. Parkinson, Jr.   
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   
June 2014 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/baxters -approach.html  
© Copyright 2014 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
3 
Baxter's Approach  
How nations, companies and individuals respond to sustainability challenges such as climate change, natural resource scarc ity, corruption, 
unequal access to healthcare and inadequate educational opportunities will impact life in the 21st century and beyond. Baxter  strives to 
demonstrate its leadership, values and commitment through its actions to address these pressing issues . 
At Baxter, sustainability is a core element of the company’s vision to build a truly great company by providing sustainable v alue for all 
stakeholders. Baxter’s sustainability initiatives support the company’s mission to apply innovative science in the development of medical 
products and specialty therapies that save and sustain patients' lives. As sustainability is inherently broad, Baxter’s effor ts cover a wide range 
of areas, but all are designed to contribute to the value creation for all stakeholder s. See Stakeholder Engagement.  
Baxter’s sustainability strategy is further defined by its nine priorities that focus its efforts for generating sustainable value to its stakeholders. 
Additionally, these nine sustainability priorities have corresponding goals for 2015, divided into three  broad categories: Our People, Our 
Operations and Products, and Our World. See Priorities and Goals  for detail.  
Managing Sustainability  
Baxter's executive -level Sustainability  Steering Committee oversees the company’s sustainability strategy and leads Baxter’s efforts to integrate 
sustainability into its current activities and long -term strategic planning process. The committee's role is to:  
 Assess global challenges, opportunit ies and emerging issues associated with sustainability and set and adjust the co mpany’s sustainability 
strategy as needed;  
 Establish and implement the company’s sustainability  priorities and goals, track progress, drive organizational accountability and re cognize 
individual and team accomplishments;  
 Recommend actions to continually enhance Baxter's sustainability program and provide progress updates to senior management, i ncluding 
annual updates to the Public Policy Committee of Baxter’s Board of Directors  
 Guide and inform Baxter's sustainability reporting;  
 Solicit stakeholder  feedback  and review stakeholder inquiries as appropriate  
The committee's executive sponsor is Baxter's vice president, Manufacturing and Supply Chain – Medical Products, and the compa ny's vice 
president of Environment, Health and Safety 
serves as committee chair. The committee 
includes senior representatives from Baxter’s 
BioScience, Medical Products, International, 
Corporate Communications, Ethics and 
Compliance, Finance, Human Resour ces, 
Manufacturing, Research and Development, 
and Supply Chain organizations.  
Committee members sponsor Baxter's 
sustainability priorities. Each sponsor is 
accountable for developing goals in his or her 
respective area, and leads a global, multi -
functional  team to implement related 
initiatives.  
The committee meets quarterly to review 
progress and to discuss how to address 
performance gaps. These meetings often 
feature outside sustainability experts to 
contribute independent input and 
perspectives. Additiona l groups provide input 
to the committee as needed. In 2013, the 
committee is undertaking strategic planning to 
assess its current sustainability goals, review 
and define Baxter’s material issues (based on 
relevance to Baxter and impact on the 
company) and will establish the company’s next set of long -term (2020) sustainability goals.  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/baxters -approach.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/stakeholder -engagement.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
4 
How Sustainability Strengthens Baxter's Business  
Baxter’s sustainability initiatives create business value, from attracting and retaining key talent, engaging employees, and reducing operating 
expense, to ensuring market access, developing new markets, meeting stakeholder expectations, and enhancing Baxt er's reputation.  See 
more detail in Business Value . 
History in Sustainability  
Baxter’s commitment to sustainability spans decades. Milestones have inc luded:  
 Established its first formal environmental program, policy and energy conservation initiatives in 1977;  
 Established The Baxter International Foundation in 1986;  
 Worked to reduce use of packaging materials, decrease water consumption and waste generation since 1988;  
 Published the company’s first formal ethics manual in 1989;  
 Introduced Baxter’s work/life benefit program in 1991;  
 Established the Corporate Responsibility Office to oversee the company’s ethics and compliance practices in 1993;  
 Deve loped Baxter’s Global Business Practice Standards for Suppliers in 2001;  
 Commenced Baxter’s Product Sustainability Review process in 2002;  
 Established the company’s Sustainability Steering Committee in 2007;  
 Defined 2015 sustainability goals in 2008; and  
 Earned Carbon Reduction certification for the first medical product from the Carbon Trust in 2010.  
Stakeholder Engagement  
Stakeholders play an essential role in Baxter's continued success, and the company takes their varied perspectives into accou nt. 
Baxter  engages stakeholders worldwide to share information; discuss the company’s sustainability priorities, programs and performanc e; and 
determine opportunities to collaborate toward common goals. Operating responsibly and addressing the needs of these interco nnected groups 
helps Baxter maintain the commercial success that enables the company to deliver on its sustainability priorities.  
Baxter engages with stakeholders on key aspects of its business and products. The company’s five primary stakeholder groups, and examples 
of the value that Baxter provides each, include the following:  
 
 
 
  
 http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/ stakeholder -engagement.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
5 
 
Baxter also has relationships with numerous organizations that focus on various aspects of sustainability. See  Affiliations and 
Memberships  and Environment, Health and Safety  for further details.  
For example, Baxter has been a member of  Ceres since 1997, and has committed to work with the organization to enhance sustainability 
performance and disclosure. Ceres advocates for sustainability leadership, bringing together a network of companies, investor s, and public 
advocacy groups to expand the adoption of sustainable business practices and solutions to build a healthy economy. Th e Ceres stakeholder 
team designated to work with Baxter is an independent group of individuals drawn primarily from the Ceres coalition, with exp ertise in 
environmental, social and governance issues. As in past years, the Ceres stakeholder team provided in put on draft sections of this report. 
See Feedback on 2012 Report  for detail.  Patients/ Healthcare Providers   
Value Provided  Channels of Engagement  
products that save and sustain lives  
products, therapies and services  
performance  Patient websites, patient surveys, industry organizations,  product 
donations  and grants . 
Example: Baxter has provided grants to  The Albert Schweitzer Fellowship , 
which supports underserved patient populations.  
Employees   
health  
ve workplace and a diverse 
workforce  
opportunities  Business Resource Groups , employee surveys , Code of Conduct , Ethics 
and Compl iance hotline . 
Example: Every other year, Baxter collects employee feedback through 
its Culture Survey  to identify areas for focus and improvement.  
Communities   
 
 
educational opportunities in STEM  Involvement in community organizations,  employee volunteer 
efforts , collaboration with international health and aid organizations . 
Example:  Baxter works with humanitarian aid partners  AmeriCares and 
Direct Relief to pre -position most -needed products for emergencies and 
ongoing needs.  
Governments/Payers   
 cost-effective healthcare solutions  
Collaborating with governments to provide long -term 
solutions to complex healthcare challenges  
 
 Lobbying activities , representation on advisory committees,  supplier 
diversity program , supplier audits and site visits.  
Example: Baxter collaborates with suppliers through it s e-Impact program 
to improve environmental performance across the value chain.  
Shareholders   
Creating and maintaining shareholder value  
 Analyst/investor presentations and meetings , quarterly earnings 
announcements and news releases , periodic reports to the U.S. Securities 
and Exchange Commission, socially responsible investment surveys.  
Example:  The Business Value  page summarizes the economic benefits of 
sustainability -related initiatives.   
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/affiliations -memberships.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
6 
Affiliations and Memberships  
Baxter and its employees engage with many professional, industry and business organizations worldwide, covering a variety of geographic 
areas, diseases, markets and sustainability issues. By participating in these groups, Baxter can expand its influence, h elp raise industry 
standards, share and learn best practices, and advance discussions within and beyond the healthcare industry.  
While impractical to include all organizations that Baxter belongs to or supports, the list below provides a representative s ample.  
Advocacy Coalitions  
 Boston College Center for Corporate Citizenship  
 Catalyst  
 Center for Companies That Care  
 National Safety Council  
 Partnership for Quality Medical Donations  
Environmental and Sustainability Organizations  
 Canadian Industry Program for Enery Conservation  
 Center for Health and the Global Environment  
 Ceres 
 CSR Europe  
 Global Reporting Initiative  
 National Environmental Education Foundation  
Industry Organizations  
 AdvaMed  
 BIOTECanada  
 Biotechnology Industry Organization  
 EucoMed  
 EuropaBio  
 European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA)  
 European Organization for Packagin g and the Environment (EUROPEN)  
 MEDEC  
 Plasma Protein Therapeutics Association  
 US-ASEAN Business Council  
Patient Organizations  
 Alpha-1 Foundation  
 Alzheimer Europe  
 American Association of Kidney Patients  
 Dialysis Patient Citizens  
 European Hemophilia Consortium  
 European Kidney Patients’ Federation (CEAPIR)  
 European Patients' Forum  
 Eurordis  
 Immune Deficiency Foundation  
 International Patient Organisation for Primary Immunodeficiencies (IPOPI)  
 Hemophilia Federa tion of America  
 International Society of Peritoneal Dialysis North American Chapter  
 Jeffrey Modell Foundation  
 Latin American Society for Imm unodeficiencies  
 National Hemophilia Foundation  
 National Kidney Foundation   
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/affiliations -memberships.html  
 © Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
7  National Patien t Safety Foundation  
 The Oley Foundation  
 World Federation of Hemophilia  
Professional Organizations  
 American Association of Critical -Care Nurses  
 American Industrial Hygiene Association (AIHA)  
 American Nephrology Nurses Association  
 American Society of Anesthesiologists  
 American Society of Health -System Pharmacists  
 American Society of Nephrology  
 American Society of Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition  
 Clinical Immunology Society  
 European Association for Haemophilia and Allied Disorders (EAHAD)  
 European Society for Immunodeficiencies (ESID)  
 International Nursing Group for Immunodeficiencies (INGID)  
 International Society of Nephrology  
 Institute of Occupational Safety and Health (IOSH)  
 Institute for Safe Medication Practices  
 NAEM (formerly National Association for Environmental Management)  
 National Minority Supplier  Development Council, Inc.  
 Renal Physicians Association  
 Society of Corporate Compliance and Ethics (SCCE)  
 Society of Critical Care Medicine  
 Women’s Business Development Center (WBDC)  
Regional and Local Organizations  
 American Chamber of Commerce for Brazil (AMCHAM Brasil)  
 American Chamber of Commerce for Chile (AMCHAM Chile)  
 American Chamber of Commerce for Panama (Panama)  
 Asociación Colombiana de Hospitales y Clínicas (ACHC) (Colombia)  
 Asociación Venezolana de Equipos Médicos (AVEDEM) (Venezuela)  
 Associação Brasileira dos Importadores de Equipamentos, Produto s e Suprimentos Médicos -Hospitalares (Abimed) (Brazil)  
 Associação Brasileira de Produtores de Soluções Parenterais (ABRASP) (Brazil)  
 Australian and New Zealand Society of Nephrology (Australia & New Zealand)  
 Cámara Argentina de Especialidades Medicinales (CAEMe) (Argentina)  
 Cámara Industria Farma céutica en Chile (ASILFA) (Chile)  
 Cámara Nacional de la Industria Farmacéutica (CANIFARMA) (Mexico)  
  Campaign for Greener Hea lthcare - Green Nephrology Group (U.K.)  
 Canadian College of Health Service Executives (Canada)  
 Canadian Malnutrition Task Force (C anada)  
 Canadian Patient Safety Institute (Canada)  
 Chicago United (U.S.)  
 The Commercial Club of Chicago (U.S.)  
 Green Building Council Italia (Italy)  
 Industria Farmacéutica de Investigación e Innovación (IFI) (Ecuador)  
 Illinois Biotechnology Industry Organization (U.S.)  
 Irish Medical & Surgical Trade Association (Ireland)   
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/affiliations -memberships.html  
http://www.baxter.com/about_baxter/company_profile/corporate_overview.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/index.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     
8  Japan Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association (Japan)  
 Korea Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association (South Korea)  
 Medical Technology Association of Australia (Australia)  
 National Center for Asia -Pacific Economic Cooperation (global)  
 Puerto Rico Manufacturers Association (Puerto Rico)  
 Sociedad Argentina de Farmacia y Bioquímica (SAFIBY) (Argentina)  
 Sindicato da Indústr ia de Produtos Farmacéuticos no Estado de São Paulo (Sindusfarma) (Brazil)  
 US-ASEAN Business Council  
 US-China Business Council  
Company Profile  
Baxter International Inc. (NY SE:BAX), through its subsidiaries, develops, manufactures and markets products that save and sustain the lives of 
people with hemophilia, immune disorders, infectious diseases, kidney disease, trauma, and other chronic and acute medical co nditions. As a 
global, diversified healthcare company, Baxter applies a unique combination of expertise in medical devices, pharmaceuticals an d 
biotechnology to create products that advance patient care worldwide. Baxter had 2013 sales of $15.3 billion and has approxim ately 61,500 
employees.  
BioScience  
2013 Sales -$6.6 Billion  
Baxter is a leading manufacturer of recombinant and plasma -based proteins to treat hemophilia and other bleeding disorders; plasma -based 
therapies to treat immune deficiencies, alpha 1 -antitrypsin deficiency, burns and shock, and other chronic and acute  blood -related conditions; 
products for regenerative medicine, such as  biosurgery products;  and vaccines.  
Medical Products  
2013 Sales -$8.7 Billion  
Baxter’s Medical Products business manufactures prod ucts used in the delivery of fluids and 
drugs to patients. These include intravenous (IV) solutions and administration sets, premixed 
drugs and drug -reconstitution systems, IV nutrition products, infusion pumps and inhalation 
anesthetics. The business also  provides products and services related to pharmacy 
compounding, drug formulation and packaging technologies. In addition, Baxter's Medical 
Products business is a leader in Renal home -based therapies, such as peritoneal dialysis, and 
offers other products and services for people with end -stage kidney disease.  
Sustainability Reporting  
Baxter is committed to sharing information about its sustainability programs, priorities, goals and 
performance. This report, the company’s main vehicle for communicating about  its social and 
environmental initiatives and progress, illustrates Baxter’s commitment to sound governance and 
balanced, transparent disclosure. It also serves as a platform for stakeholder engagement and is 
an important means for soliciting feedback on t he company’s activities.  
As a part of the annual reporting process, Baxter measures and evaluates its performance, and 
communicates its progress and challenges. The company's annual exercise of collecting, 
analyzing and reviewing report content and data en gages and educates many employees and 
senior managers on sustainability issues while driving performance improvements. This report 
also illustrates the interconnection between content areas, such as how product innovation can 
support access to healthcare i n emerging markets and the relationship between water 
consumption, energy use and greenhouse gas emissions.  
Baxter released its first public environmental report in 1992 and published its first sustainability report in 1999. The comp any has produced a 
sustainability report every year since, making this 2013 version Baxter’s 15th. In addition to the comprehensive HTML version, Baxter also 
produces a PDF of the full content, PDFs of each main section and an overview brochure, available in multiple languages.  
Baxter discloses information about its sustainability programs and performance through sev eral additional communication channels as well. 
These include socially responsible investor surveys, award applications, press releases, responses to customer requests for p roposals, 
governmental reports such as the U.S. Employer Information Report (EEO -1) and the U.S. Toxics Release Inventory, participation in 
conferences, presentations at universities and industry forums, executive speeches, and targeted stakeholder communications .
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/index.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/sustainability -reporting/feedback -on-prior-report.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rig hts Reserved     
9 External Reporting Standards  
Baxter recognizes the importance of external sustainability reporting standards to promote relevant, transparent, balanced and comparable 
disclosure of company performance. The company was one of the first to pilot the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainabi lity Reporting 
Guidelines in 1999 and has served as a GRI Organizational Stakeholder since the program's inception in 2004.  
The GRI Guidelines provide a valuable perspective to Baxter in its reporting process. GRI reporting principles offer a framew ork to assess 
whether the company addresses k ey aspects of disclosure. Reviewing report content against the range of GRI performance indicators helps 
Baxter to identify possible reporting gaps and areas that may warrant further disclosure.  
This report aligns with the GRI G3 Sustainability Reporting G uidelines, application level B (self -declared). See Baxter’s GRI Index  for detail.  
Feedback  
Stakeholder feedback is an important source of input to support continual improvement of Baxter's sustainability programs and reporting. Baxter 
encourages readers of its report to provide comments and suggestions through the company’s Sustainability Survey.  
About This Report  
 This report is intended for global use. Please consult the approp riate country -specific Baxter website for more information regarding activities 
in that country. Some statements in this report about products or procedures may differ from the licensed indications in spec ific countries. 
Therefore, always consult the count ry-specific summary of product characteristics (SPC), package leaflets or instructions for use. For more 
information, please contact a local Baxter representative.  
 The performance data in this report are from calendar year 2013 unless stated otherwise. Some case studies and program descriptions 
include information from 2014.  
 This report covers Baxter's global operations, including subsidiaries, unless stated otherwise. Environmental, health and saf ety data include 
joint ventures where Baxter has a contro lling interest.  
 The performance data in this report do not reflect Baxter’s acquisition of Gambro AB on September 6, 2013, unless stated othe rwise.  
 All currency in this report is in U.S. dollars unless stated otherwise.  
 Significant restatements of data com pared to prior years are noted in the section where they appear.  
 For more information about this report, please contact the Center for One Baxter at 1 -800-422-9837 or 1 -224-948-1812, or by email at 
onebaxter@baxter.com.  
 
Feedback on 2012 Report  
Ongoing improvement is a fundamental aspect of Baxter's sustainability reporting process. To ensure the company continues to deliver 
stakeholders the most relevant information, Baxter solicited feedback on its 2012 Sustainability Report from numerous experts : 
 SustainAbility , a think tank and strategic advisory firm working to catalyze business leadership on sustainability;  
 Ceres1,a national coalition of investors, companies and public interest groups addressing sustainability, and its select coalition members with 
expertise in areas of focus for Baxter; and  
 Bureau Veritas North America, Inc., Baxter's assurance body for the  Environment,  Health  and Safety , Supply  Chain  and selected  Product  
Responsibility  sections of this report ( Product  Sustainability , Materials  Use, Packaging  and Product  End-of-Life). Bureau Veritas North 
America, Inc., also verified the greenhouse gas emissions data included in the report  
Baxter also received feedback from more than 50 readers through its  Sustainability  Survey . The company considere d input from all of these 
sources in the preparation of this report.  
Ceres and its coalition members also provided Baxter input during the content development process of this report for 2013 (si milar to past 
years). Their review and comments focused on dra ft text for the  Priorities  and Goals  dashboard  as well as the  2013  Sustainability  at 
Baxter  brochure . Baxter welcomed the opportunity to hear and consider input on report content while still in a position to act on it.  
These organizations and stakeholders cited several areas of strength from the 2012 report and 2013 draft text, including the following 
(paraphrased):  
 The company demonstrates and articulates a strong commitment to reporting.  
 The report is user -friendly and accessible.  
 Baxter’s clearly defined priorities and related goals are reinforced throughout the report.  
 The company includes strong explanations of progress.  
 The report includes clear acknowledgement of value chain issues and impacts.  
 The environmental, health and safety data set is robust.  
 The Environmental Financial Statement is a strong element of the report.  
 Disclosure on U.S. political contributions and the company's public policy approach is strong and transparent . 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/resources/gri -index.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved      
10 Feedback on the 2012 report as well as on draft text of progress made toward each of the company's nine sustainability p riorities for the 2013 
report also included opportunities for improvement. The following table summarizes several of those comments and describes ch anges made to 
this report in response.  
Feedback  Enhancement to Baxter 2013 Sustainability Report  
General   
Include more discussion of Baxter’s challenges  Included detail about Baxter’s efforts to resolve environmental 
incidents at a large European manufacturing site. Described 
piloting and implementation of an Ergonomic Job Measurement 
System to address the ongoing challenge of ergonomic -related 
injuries.  
Improve accessibility of the PDF version of the full report  Addressed various text and design elements to improve 
accessibility (see Downloads ). 
Include a brief Company Profile in the PDF version of the full 
report  Implemented this change  
Improve use of graphics to communicate progress and facilitate 
reader understanding  Included icons representing progress against each of Baxter ’s 
2015 sustainability goals.  
Make the availability of PDF report content more apparent 
throughout the site  Added a link to PDF content to each page of the web report.  
Environmental, Health and Safety   
Estimate the total amount of money saved through efforts to 
reduce plastics waste  Included this information in Case Study: Baxter Plastic Waste 
Reduction Program.  
Give greater emphasis to the intersection between energy and 
water  Provided more prominent placement to discussion of this 
interconnection on the EHS section landing page.  
Supply Chain   
Expand description of progress and challenges that Baxter faces 
in implementing its supply chain program  Included a new graph illustrating performance in the annual 
supplier sustainability survey at the regi onal level.  
Expand disclosure about conflict minerals  Included additional text about Baxter’s commitments and activities 
in this area.  
Access to Healthcare   
Demonstrate impact of engagement on Base of the Pyramid  Case Study: Increasing Access to Care in  Emerging Markets 
through Business Model Innovation includes interviews with 
innovation hub leaders in China and India.  
Public Policy   
Disclose impacts of the Affordable Care Act.  Included significant content about Baxter’s efforts related to 
healthcare reform.  
1 Ceres is an advocate for sustainability leadership, bringing together a powerful network of companies, investors and public a dvocacy groups to expand the adoption of 
sustainable business practices and solutions to build a healthy economy. Baxter  is a member of the Ceres network of companies, and has committed to work with Ceres on 
various aspects of its sustainability performance and disclosure. Being a Ceres company is not a certification or stamp of ap proval. The Ceres stakeholder team designat ed 
to work with Baxter is an independent group of individuals drawn primarily from the Ceres coalition and represents a range of  constituencies that have expertise in 
environmental, social and governance issues.  
Assurance and Verification  
Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. assured the Environment, Health and Safety , Supply Chain  and s elected  Product Responsibility  sections of 
this report ( Product Sustainability , Materials Use , Packaging  and Product End -of-Life) (see assurance statement in  English  and Spanish ). In 
addition, Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. verified the greenhouse gas emissions data included in this report (see  verification 
statement http://sustainability.baxter.com/documents/bu reau-veritas -spanish.pdf .) 
Many of the financial data included in the  Economic Impacts  section are taken from the consolidated financial statements contained in 
the Baxter Intern ational Inc. 2013 Annual Report . These financial statements are audited by Baxter's independent registered public accounting 
firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/resources/gri -index.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved      
11 Global Reporting Initiative Index  
This report aligns with the GRI G3 Guidelines. Baxter self-declares this report to application level B.  
Disclosure  Description  2012 Reporting  
Strategy and Analysis  
1.1 Statement from the most senior decision -maker of the 
organization about the relevance of sustainability to the 
organization and its strategy.  Chairman and CEO Letter  
1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities.  Chairman and CEO Letter  
Priorities and Goals  
Organizational Profile  
2.1 Name of the organization.  Company Profile  
2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services.  Company Profile  
2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main 
divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint 
ventures.  Company Profile  
2013 Annual Report  
2.4 Location of organization's headquarters.  Baxter's headquarters are loc ated in Deerfield, Illinois, 
United States, approximately 20 miles north of 
Chicago.  
2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and 
names of countries with either major operations or that are 
specifically relevant to the sustainabi lity issues covered in 
the report.  Company Profile  
Baxter Facilities with ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and 
Green Building Certification  
2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form.  Baxter Healthcare Corporation (BAX) is a publicly 
traded company listed on the New York Stock 
Exchange.  
2.7 Markets served.  Company Profile  
2.8 Scale of the reporting organization.  Company Profile  
Employees  
Environment, Health and Safety  
Supply Chain  
2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding 
size, structure, or own ership.  2013 Annual Report  
2.10 Awards received in the reporting period.  Awards and Honors  
Report Parameters  
3.1 Reporting period for information provided.  Sustainability Reporting  
3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any).  Downloads  
3.3 Reporting cycle.  Sustainability Reporting  
3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its 
contents.  Sustainability Reporting  
3.5 Process for defining report content.  Baxter’s Approach   
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/resources/gri -index.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     
12 Priorities and Goals  
External Repo rting Standards  
Feedback  on 2012  Report  
3.6 Boundary of the report.  Sustainability Reporting  
Environment, Health and Safety GHG Emissions 
across the Value Chain  
3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of 
the report.  Sustainability Reporting  
Environment, Health and Safety  
3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased 
facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can 
significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or 
between organizations.  Sustainab ility Reporting  
3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of 
calculations, including assumptions and techniques 
underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the 
Indicators and other information in the report.  Baxter Energy Usage and Greenhouse Gas Emissions  
GHG Emissions across the Value Chain  
GHG Emissions from Operations  
2013  Environmental Financial Statement  
2013  Safety Performance  
Sustainable Procurement  
Community Support  
3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re -statements of information 
provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re -
statement.  Environment, Health an d Safety  
 
3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the 
scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the 
report.  Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage and Greenhouse 
Gas Emissions GHG Emissions Across the Value 
Chain  
Sustainable Procure ment  
3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in 
the report.  Global Reporting Initiative Index  
3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external 
assurance for the report.  Assurance  and Verification  
Governance, Commitments and Engagements  
4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including 
committees under the highest governance body responsible 
for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational 
oversight.  Corporate Governance  
4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body 
is also an executive officer.  Corporate Governance  
4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state 
the number of members of the highest governance body 
that are independent and/or non -execu tive members.  Corporate Governance  
4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 
recommendations or direction to the highest governance 
body.  How to Contact Baxter’s Board of Directors   
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/resources/gri -index.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     
13 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highes t 
governance body, senior managers, and executives 
(including departure arrangements), and the organization's 
performance (including social and environmental 
performance).  Baxter’s Compensation Committee and Committee 
Charter  
4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to 
ensure conflicts of interest are avoided.  Corporate Goverance  
Codes and Standards  
4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of 
the members of the highest governance body for guiding the 
organization's strategy on economic, environmental, and 
social topics.  Corporate Governance Guidelines  
4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes 
of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, 
environmental, and social performance and the status of 
their implementation.  Corporate Governance  
Codes and Standards  
Talent Management  
Global Inclusion and Diversity   
EHS Vision and Policy  
R&D and  Design  
Animal Welfare  
Clinical Trials  
Supplier Standards  
Product Donations  
4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing 
the organization's identification and management of 
economic,  environmental, and social performance, including 
relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or 
compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of 
conduct, and principles.  Corporate Governance  
4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governa nce body's 
own performance, particularly with respect to economic, 
environmental, and social performance.  Corporate Governance Guidelines  
4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach 
or principle is addressed by the organization.  Baxter's products are regulated by health authorities 
around the world and the company is required to 
provide extensive scientific data related to the safety 
and efficacy of those products in order to obtain 
licensure by regulatory authorities. See also R& D and 
Design and Materials Use . 
4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social 
charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the 
organization s ubscribes or endorses.  Affiliations and Memberships  
Codes and Standards  
EHS Management Systems and Certifications  
Biodiversity  
GHG Emissions from Operations  
Animal Welfare  
Clinical Trials  
Product Use   
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/resources/gri -index.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     
14 Supplier Standards   
External Reporting Standards  
4.13 Memberships in associations and/or national/international 
advocacy organizations.  Affiliations a nd Memberships  
4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization.  Stakeholder Engagement  
4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with 
whom to engage.  Stakeholder Engagement  
4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, includi ng 
frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group.  Stakeholder Engagement  
Case Study: Engaging with Stakeholders on Product 
Environmental Performance  
4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through 
stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has 
responded to those key topics and concerns, including 
through its reporting.  Feedback on 2012  Report  
Case Study: Engaging with Stakeholders on Product 
Environmental Performance  
Economic  
 Disclosure on Management Approach  Economic Impacts  
Direct Impacts  
Indirect Impacts  
EC1 Economic value generated and distributed, including 
revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, 
donations and other community investments, retained 
earnings, and payments to capital providers and 
governments. (Co re) Direct Impacts  
EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for 
the organization's activities due to climate change. (Core)  Baxter  considers its exposure, during the next decade, 
to potential regulatory, physical and other risks relate d 
to climate change to be low. The company believes 
existing and anticipated government policies, 
legislation, regulations and energy standards aimed at 
improving energy efficiency and limiting and reducing 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions will pose minimal 
regulatory risk to the corporation, in part due to 
Baxter's proactive approach in this area. In the near -
term, Baxter anticipates minimal physical risk to its 
business associated with global warming, resultant 
climate change, sea -level rise, change in weat her 
patterns and precipitation. For more information, see 
Baxter's Carbon Disclosure Project submission. For 
more information, see Baxter's Carbon Disclosure 
Project submission.  
EC3 Coverage of  the organization's defined benefit plan 
obligations. (Core)  2013 Annual Report (page 82)  
EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. 
(Core)  Not available on companywide basis.  
EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to 
local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. 
(Additional)    
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/resources/gri -index.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     
15 EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally -
based suppliers at significant locations of operation. (Core)  Supplier Diversity  
EC7 Procedures for local hiring and p roportion of senior 
management hired from the local community at significant 
locations of operation. (Core)  Baxter does not track this information globally.  
EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and 
services provided primarily for publi c benefit through 
commercial, in -kind, or pro bono engagement. (Core)  Access to Healthcare  
Community Support  
EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic 
impacts, including the extent of impacts. (Additional)  Indirect Impacts  
Environmental  
 Disclosure on Management Approach  EHS Program  
Product Responsibility  
EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. (Core)  Baxter historically reports on this indicator on the Eco -
Efficiency/Raw Materials Use page, which the 
company did not publish in its Sustainability Report 
this year. Baxter was unable to obtain reliable raw 
materials data for the 2013 reporting year by the  time 
of publication, and also discovered missing data from 
the 2012 reporting year.  
EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input 
materials. (Core)  See EN1 Above  
EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 
(Core)  Energy  
Baxter Va lue Chain Energy Usage  
and Greenhouse Gas Emissions  
EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. (Core)  Energy  
Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage  
and Greenhouse Gas Emissions  
EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency 
improvements. (Additional)  Energy  
EN6 Initiatives to provide energy -efficient or renewable energy 
based products and services, and reductions in energy 
requirements as a result of these initiatives. (Additional)  GHG Emissions from Operations  
 
EN7 Initiatives to reduce  indirect energy consumption and 
reductions achieved. (Additional)  Energy  
 
EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. (Core)  Water and Wastewater  
EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. 
(Additional)  Water and Wastewater  
EN10  Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 
(Additional)  Water and Wastewater  
EN11  Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or 
adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity 
value outside protected areas. (Core)  Biodiversity  
EN12  Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and Biodiversity   
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/resources/gri -index.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     
16 services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of hig h 
biodiversity value outside protected areas. (Core)  
EN13  Habitats protected or restored. (Additional)  Biodiversity  
EN14  Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing 
impacts on biodiversity. (Additional)  Biodiversity  
EN15  Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation 
list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by 
level of extinction risk. (Additional)   
EN16  Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by 
weight. (Core)  GHG Emissions across the Value Chain  
GHG Emissions from Operations  
Baxter Energy Usage and Greenhouse Gas Emissions  
EN17  Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by 
weight. (Core)  GHG Emissions across the Value Chain  
GHG Emissions fro m Operations  
Baxter Energy Usage and Greenhouse Gas Emissions   
EN18  Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions  and 
reductions achieved. (Additional)  GHG Emissions from Operations  
Product Transport   
EN19  Emissions of ozone -depleting substances by weight. (Core)  Air Emissions  
EN20  NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and 
weight. (Core)  Air Emissions  
EN21  Total water discharge by quality and destination. (Core)  Water and Wastewater  
EN22  Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. (Core)  Waste  
EN23  Total number and volume of significant spills. (Core)  Environmental Compliance  
EN24  Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste 
deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention 
Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste 
shipped internationally. (Additional)   
EN25  Identity, size, protected stat us, and biodiversity value of 
water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by 
the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff. 
(Additional)   
EN26  Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and 
services, and extent of  impact mitigation. (Core)  Product Sustainability  
Materials Use  
Case Study: Baxter Australia Partners in Hospital 
Waste Recycling Program  
Case Study: Baxter Plastic Waste Reduction Program   
Case Study: Comparative Life Cycle Assessment of 
Baxter VIVIA Hemodialysis System   
Case Study: Engaging with Stakeholders on Product  
Environmental Performance   
Manufacturing  
Product Transport  
Packaging   
Product End -of-Life  
Sustainable Procurement   
EN27  Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials 
that are reclaimed by category. (Core)  Product End -of-Life 
The European Union packaging directive requires  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/resources/gri -index.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     
17 Baxter to reclaim packaging and to submit related 
reports. Baxter typically pays third parties fees of 
about $1 million per year to do this, as indicated on the 
company's Environmental Financial Statement . Baxter 
does not currently have systems to track quantities of 
packaging materials reclaimed. Baxter's products are 
primarily disposable med ical products. Reclamation of 
these products is difficult since often they must be 
disposed of as biohazardous waste after their use. 
Baxter continues to explore means to reclaim and 
recyc le products with its customers.  
EN28  Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non -
monetary sanctions for non -compliance with environmental 
laws and regulations. (Core)  Environmental Compliance  
EN29  Significant environmental impacts of transporting products 
and other goods and materials used for the organiz ation's 
operations, and transporting members of the workforce. 
(Additional)  GHG Emissions across the Value Chain  
GHG Emissions from Operations  
Baxter Value Chain Energy Usage and  
Greenhouse Gas Emissions  
Product Transport  
EN30  Total environmental protect ion expenditures and 
investments by type (Additional)  2013  Environmental Financial Statement  
Labor Practices and Decent Work  
 Disclosure on Management Approach  Talent Management  
Sustainability Education  
Compensation and Benefits  
Measuring Company Culture  
Global Inclusion and Diversity  
Flexibility and Work/Life  
LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, 
and region. (Core)  Employees  
Regional Employee Breakdown  
LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, 
gender, and region. (Core)  Talent Management  
LA3 Benefits provided to full -time employees that are not 
provided to temporary or part -time employees, by major 
operations. (Additional)  Compensation and Benefits  
Flexibility and Work/Life  
LA4 Percentage of employees cov ered by collective bargaining 
agreements. (Core)  Baxter does not track this information globally.  
LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational 
changes, including whether it is specified in collective 
agreements. (Core)  The length of the notice period is dependent on the 
type of change being made. Baxter is committed to 
providing appropriate notice and follows all relevant 
consultation and notice requirements.  
LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint 
management -worker  health and safety committees that help 
monitor and advise on occupational health and safety 
programs. (Additional)    
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/resources/gri -index.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     
18 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 
absenteeism, and number of work -related fatalities by 
region. (Core)  2013  Safety Performance  
LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk -control 
programs in place to assist workforce members, their 
families, or community members regarding serious 
diseases. (Core)  Advancing Public Health  
Product Donations  
The Baxter International Foundation   
LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with 
trade unions. (Additional)   
LA10  Average hours of training per year per employee by 
employee category. (Core)  Talent Management  
LA11  Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that 
support the continued employability of employees and assist 
them in managing career endings. (Additional)  Talent Management  
Sustainability Education  
LA12  Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 
and career development reviews. (Additional)  Talent Management  
LA13  Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of 
employees per category according to gender, age group, 
minority group membership, and other indicators of 
diversity. (Core)  Global Inclusion and Diversity  
LA14  Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee 
category. (Core)  Baxter does not track this information globally.  
Human Rights  
 Disclosure on Management Approach  Global Human Rights Policy  
Supplier Standards  
HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment 
agreements that include human rights clauses or that have 
undergone human rights screening. (Core)  Baxter does not track this information globally in a 
consistent manner.  
HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that 
have undergone screening on human rights and actions 
taken. (Core)  Supplier Standards  
Sustainable Procurement  
HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures 
concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to 
operations, including the percentage of  employees trained. 
(Additional)   
HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions 
taken. (Core)  In addition to alleged cases of discrimination and 
harassment that may be handled locally, Baxter's 
Ethics and Compliance helpline and information 
management system logged 15 allegations of 
discrimination and harassment in 2012. Baxter 
encourages employees to seek guidance and report 
concerns through a number of formal channels. 
Through these channels, Baxter identifies incidents, 
prevents incidents from occurring and addresses  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/resources/gri -index.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     
19 issues when they do arise. Items identified through 
these channels help Ethics and Compliance managers 
identify key risks, develop appropriate training, and 
design and apply compliance assessment 
methodologies.  
HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom 
of association and collective bargaining may be at 
significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. 
(Core)   
HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents 
of child labor, an d measures taken to contribute to the 
elimination of child labor. (Core)  See Baxter’s Code of Conduct , page 9.  
HR7 Operations ident ified as having significant risk for incidents 
of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to 
the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. (Core)  See Baxter’s Code of Conduct , page 9.  
HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the 
organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of 
human rights that are relevant to operations. (Additional)   
HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of 
indigenous people and actions taken. (Additional)    
Society  
 Disclosure on Management Approach  Governance, Ethics and Compliance  
Community Support  
Access to Healthcare  
Critical Community Needs  
Employee Involvement  
SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and 
practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations 
on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. 
(Core)  Environment, Health and Safety  
SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for 
risks related to corruption. (C ore) Ethics and Compliance Structure and Programs  
SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti -
corruption policies and procedures. (Core)  Codes and Standards  
Ethics and Compliance - Structure and Programs  
SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents  of corruption. (Core)  Allegations are investigated by the Ethics and 
Compliance department.  
SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy 
development and lobbying. (Core)  Public Policy  
2013  Political Contributions Report  
2012 Political Contributions Report  
2011  Political Contributions Report  
2010  Political Contributions Report  
2009  Political Contributions Report  
2008 Political Contributions Report  
SO6 Total value of financial and in -kind contributions to political 
parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. 2013  Political Contributions Report  
2012  Political Contributions Report   
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/resources/gri -index.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     
20 (Additional)  2011  Political Contributions Report  
2010  Political Contributions Report  
2009  Political Contributions Report  
2008 Political Contributions Report  
SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti -competitive behavior, 
anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. 
(Additional)   
SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non -
monetary sanctions for non -compliance with laws and 
regulations. (Core)  Environmental Compliance  
Health and Safety Compliance  
Safety  
If a company fails to comply with regulations in the 
United States, the FDA or the Department of Justice 
may initiate civil or criminal enforce ment actions. 
Enforcement actions can range from an untitled letter 
(the least serious) or a warning letter (an elevated 
action) up to a criminal indictment. In 2013, Baxter 
received zero untitled letters and three warning letters 
from the U.S. FDA. Compar able information is not 
commonly available outside the United States.  
 
Product Responsibility  
 Disclosure on Management Approach  Product Responsibility  
Quality   
Safety   
Product Integrity  
R&D and Design  
Materials Use  
Manufacturing  
Packaging   
Product Use  
Product End -of-Life 
Product Transport  
Advancing Public Health  
Base of the Pyramid  
Product Donations   
PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of 
products and services  are assessed for improvement, and 
percentage of significant products and services categories 
subject to such procedures. (Core)  Product Sustainability  
PR2 Total number of incidents of non -compliance with 
regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and 
safety impacts of products and services during their life 
cycle, by type of outcomes. (Additional)  Safety  
PR3 Type of product and service information required by 
procedures, and percentage of significant products and 
services subject to such informati on requirements. (Core)  Clinical Trials  
Product Use   
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/resources/gri -index.html , http://www.sustainabi lity.baxter.com/sustainability/economic -impacts/index.html ,  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/economic -impacts/direct -impacts.html , © Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
   
21 PR4 Total number of incidents of non -compliance with 
regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and 
service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. 
(Additional)   
PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results 
of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. (Additional)   
PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary 
codes related to marketing communications, including 
advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. (Core)  Product Use  
PR7 Total number of incidents of non -compliance with 
regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing 
communications, including advertising, pro motion, and 
sponsorship by type of outcomes. (Additional)   
PR8 
 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding 
breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. 
(Additional)   
PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non -compliance with 
laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of 
products and services. (Core).  Safety  
Economic Impacts  
Baxter's direct and indirect economic impacts on its stakeholders are an important part of the 
company's sustainability performance. Direct impacts include financial transactions, such as revenue 
received from customers, wages and benefits provided to employees, dividends paid to investors and 
tax payments made to governments. Some but not all of these appear in a company's financial 
statements. Indirect impacts, which are more difficult to quantify, include increased productivity and 
money saved by customers due to their use of Baxter's products, and job creation outside of Bax ter 
due to the company's spending.  
Baxter's Financial Performance  
Baxter's broader economic contributions depend on its ongoing financial performance. The company's 
global net sales totaled $15.3 billion in 2013, an increase of 8% 
over the prior year. Sal es within the United States totaled 
approximately $6.5 billion, rising 7% year over year, and 
international sales totaled $8.8 billion, increasing 8% over 2012. 
Over the five years ending December 31, 2013, Baxter's total 
shareholder return (including rein vested dividends) was 46.4%.  
See Direct Impacts  for additional information, or for a more 
detailed description of the company's financial performance, see 
Baxter's  2013 Annual Report . For other investor information such as upcoming events, presentations and 
reports, see the  Investors  section of the company's website.   
Direct Impacts  
Baxter's direct impacts include payments the company makes to and receives from various stakeholder 
groups during the course of business. For example:  
 Customers buy Baxter's products;  
 Baxter pays suppliers for raw materials and other goods and services;  
 Employees receive wages and benefits;  
 Investors provide Baxter capital in exchange for dividends and possible gains in share value; and  
 Communities may receive tax payments, as well as cash and produc t donations (in some locations)
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/economic -impacts/direct -impacts.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
22 
The following table summarizes these transactions.  
Economic Value Generated and Distr ibuted (Dollars in Millions)  
 2009  2010  2011  2012  2013  
Economic Value Generated  
Net Sales  $12,562  $12,843  $13,893  $14,190  $15,259  
Net Income Attributable to 
Baxter  2,205  1,420  2,224  2,236  2,012  
Economic Value Distributed  
Suppliers  
Payments to Suppliers 
(approximate)  $4,400  $5,500  $5,700  $6,100  $7,300  
Investors  
Share Repurchases  $1,216  $1,453  $1,583  $1,480  $913  
Cash Dividends on Common 
Stock  632 688 709 804 1,023  
Governments  
Income Tax Expense (U.S.)  $273  $284  $256  $208    $172  
Income Tax Expense 
(international)  246 179 297 355 365 
Communities  
Cash Donations*  $33.9  $31.3  $33.0  $28.7  $30.3  
 
* Baxter and The Baxter International Foundation.  
** Variations in Baxter's annual product donations are due to fluctuations in community needs, the regulatory environment, manuf acturing processes and 
marketing. The company identifies opportunities to donate and responds to community requests as appropriate.  
Baxter Share Performance  
See Baxter's 2013 Annual Report  to view a graph that compares the change in cumulative total shareholder return (including reinvested 
dividends) on Baxter's common stock with the Standard & Poor's 500 Composite Index and the Standard & Poor's 500 Health Care Index as of 
December 31 of each year.  
For additional detail, see Baxter's  interactive stock chart.  
Impact on Communities  
Local communities are positively impacted by Bax ter's presence through wages and benefits the company pays employees as well as other 
expenditures and investments.  
Baxter currently employs approximately 61,500 people in 67 countries, and the company continues to expand its global presence . 
In 2013, the company constructed a new R&D facility in Suzhou, China, which now e mploys approximately 130 scientists and engineers, with 
plans to increase to 175 scientists by the end of 2014. Baxter also entered into new partnerships in India during the year, i ncluding an 
expanded collaboration with  Syngene, an internationally reputed  custom research and manufacturing organization, to establish that firm's 
Baxter -dedicated research center in Bangalore, India. The global research center there now has approximately 110 Syngene employees 
working solely on Baxter projects,  with plans to in crease to 150 scientists by the end of 2014.  In addition, an ongoing collaboration with HCL, a Product Donations/  
Patient Assistance 
Programs**  18.9 48.1 47.2 28.0 
 34.3 
Baxter (Reinvented)  
Capital Expenditures  $1,014  $963  $960  $1,161  $1,525  
R&D Expenses  917 915 946 1,156  1,246   
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/economic -impacts/direct -impacts.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability/economic -impacts/indirect -impacts.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
23 
global leader in IT and engineering services based in India,  for R&D engineering services has grown from approximately 120 engineers in 2013 
to 200 engineers. Through these R&D projects and additional partnerships, Baxter aims to develop products for local and global patient needs 
which can be scaled worldwide.  
In April 2012, Baxter announced construction of a new state -of-the-art manufacturing facility near Cov ington, Georgia, United States, to support 
growth of its immunoglobulin therapy for patients with immune deficiencies and its albumin products, which are primarily used  as plasma -
volume replacement therapy in critical care, trauma and burn patients. Baxter  expects capital investments at the site to exceed $1 billion during 
the next five years. The company anticipates that this expansion will create more than 1,500 full -time positions in Georgia and greater than 
2,000 jobs overall.  Learn more.  
In addition, Baxter recently expanded its facility in Singapore to increase manufacturing capacity and received European Union  regulatory 
approval to produce a varie ty of recombinant proteins; the site will formally open in late summer 2014. Construction continues at Baxter's facility 
in Halle/Westfalen, Germany, to expand capacity to support growth of Baxter's BioPharma Solutions business.  
Baxter has also invested in  renovating its facilities in Los Angeles and Thousand Oaks, California, United States, to improve output and ensure 
that Baxter's manufacturing facilities continue to deliver critical therapies to patients worldwide. Given the strength of Ba xter's late -stage 
development pipeline, with numerous products expected to launch over the next few years, the Thousand Oaks facility has added  square 
footage with on -site expansion and the purchase of an additional nearby building. The additional space will be used for  offices and 
manufacturing activities.  
Baxter is also committed in making a difference in the lives of its employees and those in the communities in which it operat es. 
In some Baxter manufacturing plants, the company employs healthcare professionals who pr ovide free or inexpensive healthcare to employees' 
families and other community members. During the 2013 -2014 flu season, Baxter facilities in the following locations offered free or subsidized 
seasonal flu vaccinations to employees' family members: Mexico  (Cuernavaca), Philippines (Canlubang and Ortigas), Puerto Rico (Aibonito, 
Guayama, Catano and Guaynabo), Spain (Sabiñánigo), and Venezuela. Through this initiative, the company provided a total of 80 4 
vaccinations to family members, in addition to more th an 20,000 vaccinations provided to employees.  In addition, many Baxter facilities support 
local charities (see  Critical Community Needs  for detail).  
Indire ct Impacts  
Baxter's main indirect economic impacts are through its products and innovations (see  Scientific Excellence  for detailed information about the 
company's diverse capabilities in medical devices, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology, including specialty biologics). With more than 50 
production facilities in 27 countries, proprietary technologies and complementary manufacturing platforms across its business es, the compa ny 
produces high -quality products cost -effectively for local and regional markets, helping improve healthcare quality worldwide.  
For example, Baxter is the world's leading manufacturer of peritoneal dialysis (PD) products, which are self -administered at ho me to treat 
patients with end -stage renal disease, or irreversible kidney failure. In China, the dialysis population increases by 10% -12% per year, with 89% 
of those using in -center hemodialysis and just 11% using PD. Increasing the proportion of appropria te patients treated with PD therapy to 21% 
of the total over four years would potentially reduce the country's cumulative five -year dialysis spending by 370 million RMB ($US 54 million).1 
The company also conducts economic research, reviews external studie s and works to provide governments, healthcare organizations and 
patients the information needed to make the best possible treatment decisions.  
Baxter's spending also has a "multiplier effect" on the broader economy, for example, through job creation in th e supply chain and supporting 
services such as air travel or hospitality. The company does not calculate these impacts, but believes they are significant g iven Baxter's size 
and scope. For example, Baxter paid its suppliers approximately $7.3 billion in 20 13, which those suppliers then used to pay their suppliers, 
provide their employees with wages and benefits and pay taxes and other expenses.  
1 Liu FX, Quock TP, Burkart J et al. (2013) Economic evaluations of peritoneal dialysis and hemodialysis: 2004 -2012 [v1; ref status: approved 1, 
http://f1000r.es/2fa] F1000Research 2013, 2:273 (doi: 10.12688/f1000research.2 -273.v1)  
 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/sustainability /economic -impacts/business -value.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
24 
Business Value  
Pursuing sustainability reflects Baxter's values, supports its social commitments and reduces the company’s environmental imp acts. 
Sustainability also enhances Baxter’s business, as described below . 
 
Cost Savings and Avoidance   
 Environmental Financial Statement  
 Energy savings  from operations  
 Reduced waste  
 More efficient water use  
 Decreased worker's compensation through enhanced employee  health and safety  
 Improved packaging designs with decreased materials use  
 Supply chain optimization, including more  efficient product transport   
Market Access   
 Product quality , safety  and integrity  
 Compliance with regulations worldwide such as the European Union Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE)  
Directive , Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Directive , Evaluation and Authorisation of Chemicals (REACH) Directive  
Employee Engagement    
 Talent acquisition, management , deve lopment and retention  
 Sustainability education  
 Global inclusion and diversity  
 Work/life programs  
 Culture/engagement survey  
New and Expanding Markets   
 Peritoneal dialysis  
 Materials innovations  
 Selecting and evaluating suppliers based in part on environmental and social criteria  
 Addressing patients’ needs through business model innovation  
 Partnering with health authorities to expand access to healthcare  
Enhanced Brand and Reputation    
 Inclusion in socially responsible investment indices  
 Improved reputation through awards and recognition  
 Leadership in addressing global climate change and other sustainability issues  
 Enhanced relationships with local communities and other stakeholders  
Managing Risk  
Baxter also manages various risk factors related to sustainability such as product quality, efficacy and safety; compliance w ith laws and 
regulations worldwide; governmental and other policies related to reimbursement for medical products; and intellectual  property protection. See 
pages 6 -13 of Baxter's Annual Report on Form 10 -K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 for more detail. Information about Baxter's 
approach in some of these areas is included in this report as well, such as in Quality , Safety , Environmental Compliance  and Product Use .   
   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -people/  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -operations -products/  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
3 
  
 
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -operations -products/  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
4 
 
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/priorities -goals/our -operations -products/  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
5 
 
 
 
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics -compli ance/index.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics -compliance/corporate -governance.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
2 
Governance , Ethics and Compliance  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As a global healthcare company operating in more than 100 countries, Baxter is committed to effective 
corporate governance, adherence to the law, and a culture of ethics and compliance throughout the 
organization.  
In 1995, Baxter became one of the first c ompanies to adopt formal corporate governance guidelines. These address the operation of Baxter’s 
Board of Directors and board committees, which in turn govern the management of the company and represent shareholder interes ts. At 
Baxter, re -examining the c ompany’s practices and setting new standards is ongoing. Today's corporate governance guidelines reflect this 
evolution.  
Baxter’s Ethics and Compliance team works closely with operating and legal teams based regionally in Baxter's businesses to e nsure that  the 
company’s activities adhere to applicable laws and to company policies. The organization offers numerous channels to educate and counsel 
employees as well as confidential avenues to report alleged violations of law and policy. It investigates these it ems promptly and reports to 
senior management as appropriate.  
This section covers the following topics:  
• Corporate Governance  
• Codes and Standards  
• Ethics and Compliance Structure and Programs  
• Communication and Guidance  
Employee Perspective  
“Business ethics was one of the major reasons why I decided to join Baxter more than 10 years ago. ” 
Alexander, Business Unit Manager, Greece  
Corporate Governance  
Baxter is operated under the direction of the company's board of directors. In 2013, 12 independent dire ctors and Baxter's chief executive 
officer (CEO) comprised the company's 13 -person board.  
Baxter's CEO serves as the chairman of the board, and the board also annually appoints an independent lead director, who pres ides at 
executive sessions of the board and serves as a liaison between the other independent directors and the chairman. The lead director also 
reviews meeting agendas, works with the chairman to facilitate timely and appropriate information flow to the board, and serv es as the contact 
person for interested parties to communicate directly with the independent members of the board. 
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics -compliance/corporate -governance.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve d 
3 
Baxter's CEO serves as the chairman of the board, and the board also annually appoints an independent lead director, who pres ides at 
executive sessions of the board and serves as a liaison between the other independent directors and the chairman. The lead director also 
reviews meeting agendas, works with the chairman to facilitate timely and appropriate information flow to the board, and serv es as the contact 
person for interested parties to communicate directly with the independent members of the board.  
Baxter has long adhered to principles designed to ensure effective corporate governance. Since 1995, the board has had in place  corporate 
governance guidelines  that address the operation of the board and its committees, strategic and succession planning, and  director 
qualifications, independence and compensation.  
Baxter's board has six committees:  Audit , Compensation , Corporate Governance , Finance , Public Policy , and  Science and Technology . Each is 
made up of independent directors and has the authority to obtain advice or assistance from outside experts, as the committee deems 
appropriate. Click on each link to view more detail, including a list of current members.  
The b oard meets in executive session at each regularly scheduled meeting. During 2013, the board held 9 meetings. All directors at tended 75% 
or more of the meetings of the board and board committees on which they served. Average attendance was approximately 96% . View more 
information on the  board's activities and responsibilities.  
The board considers candidates for director recommended by shareholders, board members, management and an independent search firm 
retained by the board to help identify and evaluate po tential director nominees. The board evaluates all candidates in the same manner 
regardless of the source of recommendation, and selects directors on the basis of talent and experience. The selection proces s takes into 
account diversity of background, incl uding gender, race, ethnic or geographic origin, age and experience (in fields such as business, 
government and education as well as healthcare, science and technology). A nominee’s ability to meet the independence criteri a established by 
the New York Stoc k Exchange is also a factor in the selection process.  
Executive Compensation  
Baxter’s executive compensation program is designed to recognize company and individual performance, drive the long -term financial 
performance of the company (and in doing so, encourage innovation and appropriate levels of risk -taking), and reflect the value of each officer’s 
position in the market and within the company. The objective of the program is to compensate Baxter’s executives in a manner that is 
consistent with these principles, aligns the interests of management and shareholders, and drives sustained and superior performance relative 
to the company’s peers. The program is also designed to be competitive with companies with which Baxter competes for executiv e talent in  
order to attract, retain and motivate high -performing executives.  
In line with Baxter’s pay -for-performance philosophy, executives are compensated based on a range of financial and individual performance 
goals. The goals set for Baxter’s executive officer s in 2013 reflected the diversity of the company’s business and the wide range of 
responsibilities attributed to each of these officers. For example, Mr. Parkinson had over 50 performance goals for 2013 cove ring the following 
areas: financial performance; organizational development and human resources; corporate strategy and business development; quality and 
regulatory; operational excellence; board relations and governance; constituent relations (including with respect to sustaina bility matters); 
leadershi p; and innovation and R&D.  
See Baxter’s 2014 Proxy Statement  for more detail on executive compensation.  
Stock Ownership Guidelines for Executive Officers and Board Me mbers  
To further align the interests of directors and management with shareholders, Baxter requires its executive officers and dire ctors to own Baxter 
stock. Baxter’s CEO is required to achieve ownership of Baxter common stock valued at six times annual ba se salary. Each of the other 
executive officers is required to achieve ownership of Baxter common stock valued at four times annual base salary within fiv e years of 
becoming an executive officer. Each director is to hold Baxter common stock equal to five t imes annual cash retainer after five years of board 
service.  
Communicating with the Board of Directors  
Interested parties may communicate directly with any of Baxter’s directors by emailing  boardofdirectors@baxter.com  or writing a letter to Baxter 
Director  c/o Corporate Secretary, Baxter International Inc., One Baxter Parkway, Deerfield, Illinois 60015. Baxter’s Corporate Secreta ry will 
forward communications directly to the lead director, unless a different director is specified.  
For More Information  
To read more about Baxter’s approach to corporate governance, please see the corporate governance section  of Baxter’s website. 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics -compliance/codes -and-standards.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Re served  
4 
Codes and Standards  
Baxter’s Ethics and Compliance codes and standards encompass the company’s relationships with employees, suppliers, healthcar e 
professionals, medical institutions and patient organizations.  
Code of Conduct  
Baxter’s  Code of Conduct  defines the core princip les that govern employee behavior at Baxter and how the company conducts its business. 
The Code applies to Baxter's Board of Directors and all of its employees, including the company’s chief executive officer and  other senior 
management. It builds on Baxte r’s long -standing commitment to leadership in ethical business practices, covering topics such as protection and 
use of company assets, accurate recordkeeping, competitive and confidential information, sales and marketing practices, antic orruption, insider  
trading, bioethics, conflicts of interest, gifts and trade compliance. The Code’s user -friendly format includes questions and answers, decision 
guides and lists of additional resources available to employees to help maintain a culture of integrity through out Baxter. The Code is available in 
23 languages, including Swedish which was added in 2013.  
New Baxter employees receive Code of Conduct training within the first three months of employment. Baxter’s corporate policie s support the 
Code by defining the company’s intentions, setting behavioral expectations and requiring certain actions. A comprehensive intranet site 
provides employees with additional information on corporate policies.  
Baxter’s Code of Conduct reflects evolving regulations and stakeholder expectations regarding industry practices. It extends to the company’s 
relationships with suppliers, healthcare professionals, medical institutions and patient organizations globally. The Code inc ludes Baxter’s Global 
Anticorruption Policy, which covers ho w the company’s employees, contractors, agents and third parties conduct themselves with government 
officials.  
The Code requires prompt reporting of suspected misconduct and outlines the consequences of failure to comply with applicable  laws or 
Baxter's po licies and procedures. The company provides ongoing training and a Code of Conduct intranet site to keep employees informed 
about Baxter’s ethics and compliance policies, topic -specific training and other tools and resources.  
Human Rights  
Baxter respects and is committed to fostering human rights, dignity and the diverse contributions of all. The company approve d its Human 
Rights  Policy in 2012. Baxter’s philosophy and policy in this area are further supported by the company’s Leadership Expectations, C ode of 
Conduct, sustainability program, supplier codes and agreements (see below), and other global policies. Refer to the company ’s California 
Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010 statement.   
Standards for Baxter Suppliers  
To conduct business with Baxter, suppliers must have their o wn code of conduct that aligns with Baxter’s standards or they must agree to abide 
by the company’s Ethics and Compliance Standards for Baxter Suppliers. These standards, translated into 19 languages, define policies and 
set common expectations about ethic al behavior when doing business with Baxter (see Supplier Standards for more information). Baxter’s 
Supplier Quality and Purchasing and Supplier Management groups evaluate and approve all key suppliers before any materials, c omponents, 
products or services  may be purchased. Additionally, Baxter’s Supplier Quality Standard and Ethics and Compliance Standards for Baxter 
Suppliers specifically address sustainability issues, including indentured and child labor, employment standards, waste and e nergy reduction,  
and ethics.  
Other Professional Codes of Ethics  
Baxter has adopted additional professional and industry codes of ethics. These standards define how all professionals and tho se in a given 
industry should conduct themselves. Baxter has adopted the following codes:  
• AdvaMed Code of Ethics on Interactions with Health Care Professionals;  
• Ethics & Compliance Officer Association (ECOA) Standards of Conduct for Business Ethics and Compliance Professionals;  
• European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA) Code of Practice on Relationships with Patient Orga nizations 
and Code of Practice on Promotion of Medicines to, and Interactions with, Healthcare Professionals;  
• Institute for Supply  Management (ISM) Principles and Standards of Ethical Supply Management Conduct;  
• Professional Society of Engineers Code of Ethics for Engineers;  
• Regulatory Affairs Professionals (RAPS) Code of Ethics for Regulat ory Affairs Professionals; and  
• Society for Corporate Compliance and Ethics (SCCE) Code of Ethics for Compliance and Et hics Professionals.  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics -compliance/codes -and-standards.html  
http://w ww.sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics -compliance/structure -and-programs.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
5 
Additionally, the company works with non -governmental organizations and trade associations to enhance Ethics and Compliance (E&C) 
standards around the world. This includes work with:  
• The European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations, sharing the company’s perspective on interactions with  the 
medical community and disclosing such interactions to promote transparenc y. 
• Eucomed on the development of a general E&C program.  
• The China Association of Enterprises with Foreign Investment R&D -based Pharmaceutical Association Committee (RDPAC) on an industry -
wide ethical sales and marketing code.  
• The China Council of Advanced Medical Technology Association (AdvaMed), participating as part of a task force to develop an industry code 
of conduct for the China operations of member companies of AdvaMed.  
• The Mexican Association of Innovative Medical Devices Industries (AMID), updatin g AMID’s Code of Interactions with Healthcare 
Professionals to ensure the highest international and local ethics standards. Baxter also supported AMID by creating a harmon ized training 
that endorses standards and criteria agreed upon by the medical device industry.  
 
Employee Perspective  
“Integrity means staying strong and not giving in to unethical demands of doctors who expect economic benefits in exchange for  
prescribing our products. Both the team and I strongly believe that we can achieve high performance with integrity. “ 
Junho, Distr ict Sales Manager, Seoul, Korea  
Ethics and Compliance Structure and Programs  
Baxter designed and updates its ethics and compliance structure and 
programs regularly to reflect the needs of a diversified and complex global 
healthcare company. The company ma nages programs and activities to help 
employees make good decisions about appropriate behaviors in the m arkets 
where Baxter operates.  
Corporate Responsibility Office  
The Corporate Responsibility Office  (CRO), established by Baxter’s Board of 
Directors in 1 993 and composed of seven senior executives, is responsible for 
communicating the company’s ethics and compliance standards, providing 
guidance and overseeing training to employees and directors, maintaining 
multiple channels for employees to report concer ns, and monitoring 
compliance. The CRO, which meets at least every quarter, reports to the 
board's Public Policy Committee and reports on financial matters to the 
board's Audit Committee (see graphic). Baxter was one of the first companies 
to establish a d irect reporting relationship between its CRO and its board, 
ensuring ethics and compliance oversight at the highest level.  
Baxter’s Regional Ethics and Compliance Committees implement the CRO's 
charter globally and enhance corporate understanding of local cultures, values 
and behavioral norms. The company also has dedicated compliance and legal 
resources in each region outside the United States, and has similar 
governance structures for its BioScience and Medical Products businesses.  
Certificate of Integrit y and Compliance  
Each year, Baxter requires executives, managers, sales representatives and 
other selected employees around the world to reaffirm their commitment to the company's ethics and compliance standards by co mpleting and 
submitting a Certificate o f Integrity and Compliance (COIC). The COIC also serves as a reporting document that measures the integration of 
ethical business practices throughout Baxter. In 2013, more than 16,000 employees who have manager or greater -level responsibilities 
completed the COIC, which is available in 16 languages.  
 
 
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics -compliance/structure -and-programs.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
6 
Legal and Regulatory Compliance Training  
Baxter requires employees worldwide to take  Web-based training on legal and regulatory compliance. In 2013, 43,100 employees completed 
more than 128,600 e -Learning courses covering areas such as product complaints, pharmacovigilance, adverse -event reporting procedures, 
workplace violence prevention , data privacy, trade compliance, requirements for selling to the U.S. government, the Foreign Corrupt Practices 
Act, antitrust, intellectual property, and Baxter’s ethics and compliance standards. Baxter’s Legal department and Ethics and  Compliance group 
also conducted hundreds of classroom sessions around the world in 2013 to train employees globally on the company’s ethics an d compliance 
standards and supporting policies.  
Baxter continued to implement its risk -based anticorruption education program to pr ovide awareness -level training to most employees, and 
more advanced training to employees who regularly interact with government officials and healthcare professionals. During the  year, Baxter 
conducted anticorruption training sessions for employees in a v ariety of roles, including Sales, Marketing, Medical Affairs and Finance.  
Baxter also expanded its Compliance Fitness training program in 2013. The program, initially launched in Asia Pacific, was en hanced and 
implemented in targeted sub -regions within Eur ope, Latin America and the United States. Compliance Fitness is an interactive program in 
which employees work in teams to identify and provide solutions to real -world compliance case studies that are tailored to each market. The 
programs are designed to d rive discussion, to enhance leaders’ issue spotting and critical thinking skills to identify and address compliance 
issues in their markets, and to raise questions or concerns when appropriate.  
See Product Use  for detail about advertising and promotion.  
Relationships with Healthcare Profess ionals and Government Officials  
Governments are seeking ways to reduce spending on healthcare while maintaining current or improved levels of healthcare delivery. At the 
same time, healthcare companies face the perception that their marketing programs and R&D and production costs are significan t factors in 
increasing healthcare costs. In this context, Baxter understands the im portance of reporting transparently on its relationships with healthcare 
professionals. This includes the continued implementation of anticorruption programs that work to ensure that those relations hips and related 
payments are for necessary and genuine se rvices. As a company dedicated to making a meaningful difference in patients’ lives, Baxter’s 
integrity in this area is paramount.  
Baxter launched its Global Policy on Interactions with the Medical Community and Government Officials and is implementing a p hased roll -out 
of a centralized technology platform linking all of the company’s related interactions worldwide to enhance user experience, and internal and 
external reporting.  
Baxter also enhanced its U.S. Contributions Management Program to review and pr ocess contribution requests from non -profit and for -profit 
healthcare organizations (HCOs). These may include charity events, awards, patient educational events, and annual education m eetings. A 
cross -functional Baxter team reviews HCO requests monthly. In  2013, the company received and processed more than 700 HCO requests and 
approved more than $11 million in contributions.  
Physician Payment Disclosure/Sunshine Act  
The Physician Payments “Sunshine” Act, signed into law in 2010 as part of the Affordable Car e Act, requires companies including Baxter that 
operate in the United States and manufacture covered drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies to track and report certa in payments and 
transfers of value provided to physicians and teaching hospitals. A s of August 2013, manufacturers are required to collect information about 
payments such as consulting fees, travel and lodging, meals, education grants and royalties. The first aggregate summary repo rt of this 
information was due to the Centers for Medicar e and Medicaid Services (CMS) on March 31, 2014. The detailed report was due to CMS in 
June. Baxter has developed a robust program designed to address all applicable requirements and to help meet stakeholder expe ctations and 
transparency requirements.  
International Anticorruption Activities  
During 2013, Baxter’s Ethics and Compliance team, working closely with other groups and functions in the company, continued t o advance its 
anticorruption program. This includes periodic assessments and monitoring of Baxt er’s global operations with regard to key corruption risks. 
The company  conducted 11 compliance assessments in 2013 utilizing Corporate Audit and Ethics and Compliance resources.  
In some cases, external counsel and external auditors were used. The audits t ook place in four countries in EMEA, two countries in Latin 
America, three countries in Asia Pacific and two in North America. Assessment results have shown continued progress in awaren ess, 
understanding and implementation of Baxter’s anticorruption progra ms.  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics -compliance/structure -and-programs.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
7 
In addition to compliance assessments, the company conducted compliance self -monitoring in 27 countries, including 11 in Asia Pacific, 13 in 
EMEA and three in Latin America. The Ethics and Compliance team coordinated the monitoring and it was led by area internal co ntrols and 
country -level finance personnel. The U.S . businesses also performed compliance self -monitoring quarterly. In addition, Corporate Audit 
performed limited compliance transactional and controls testing in 10 countries globally.  
Also in 2013, Baxter continued global execution of its International An ticorruption Third Party Policy, with emphasis on review of and due 
diligence regarding business partners who interface with government officials and agencies in activities such as the approval , registration, 
promotion and sales of Baxter’s products and th erapies.  
This multifaceted program includes a robust process to conduct due diligence on relevant business partners, as well as to tra in them on 
anticorruption laws and Baxter’s standards and expectations. The success of the third party program relies on e xtensive, ongoing collaboration 
between Baxter’s Ethics and Compliance, Legal and business teams, as well as with the company’s business partners.  
Baxter is committed to establishing and improving industry codes of conduct and enhancing ethical behavior ac ross the healthcare industry.  
Trade Compliance  
In 2013, Baxter updated its Trade Compliance policy and continued working with its global Trade Compliance Council to help gu ide the 
program. The company continues to identify and train a network of trade compliance officers globally, tasked with spotting and handling related 
issues in their countries and functions, and seeking advice from their designated expert as warranted. Baxter also continues to enhance tools 
and processes to screen for and address related risks involving its products and business tra nsactions. Additionally, the company expanded 
training through in -person sessions and translated its Export Control and Economic Sanctions trade compliance e -learning course into Arabic, 
German and Spanish, and continues to roll out the e -learning course t o a broader population. The course raises awareness about global export 
controls and economic sanctions, regulations and related company policies. The course also focuses on Baxter's procedures, as  well as 
employees’ responsibility to ensure compliance in this area.  
Data Privacy and Security  
In the course of business, consumers, patients, healthcare professionals, employees and others share personal information wit h Baxter. 
Baxter’s  global privacy policy  defines the company’s privacy standards and guides t he company’s global operations to follow similar controls for 
protecting personal and patient health information. All Baxter employees are required to complete an online training course o n the policy.  
Baxter’s Global Privacy Office addresses three major ar eas of privacy: patient personal and health information; employee personal information; 
and personal information managed by the company’s service providers. Its main role is to maintain governance and oversee priv acy 
compliance.  
Baxter’s Global Privacy Pro gram is comprised of U.S. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) Privacy Compliance, 
European Union Data Protection Compliance and Global Data Transfer programs. In 2013, Baxter's Global Privacy Office complete d the HIPAA 
privacy asses sment program in the U.S. Additionally, the organization also conducted activities to maintain compliance with the European 
Union Data Protection Directive. In 2014, the Global Privacy Office plans to launch an EU privacy assessment program to re -evaluate privacy 
controls in accordance with the new privacy rules in EU and it will continue to focus on maintaining the HIPAA Privacy compli ance program in 
the U.S.  
Information security is a closely related area of focus. Baxter’s Information Technology (IT) Risk  Governance Board meets quarterly to ensure 
appropriate accountability, priority and decision -making in response to identified IT risks. A separate cross -functional Information Governance 
Council oversees the management of business risk related to security , privacy and legal information.  
Baxter’s Information Protection Program, which includes global policies, organizational awareness mechanisms and compliance s ystems, 
enforces appropriate use and protection of the company’s information and technology. In 20 13, Baxter expanded the program globally, 
engaging hundreds of employees responsible for protecting sensitive Baxter information. The company also implemented new meas ures to 
guard against cyber attacks and data loss by employing advanced threat detection technologies at critical junctures within Baxter’s network. 
This further strengthened the company’s security capabilities and supports its commitment to protect the best interests of cu stomers, 
employees, management and other stakeholders.  
Employee Perspec tive 
“Most importantly, compliance assures our patients that the therapy their healthcare professional has chosen is the best optio n and 
is free of any interest or conflicting bias. ” 
Mauricio, Finance Director, Mexico 
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/governance -ethics -compliance/communication -and-guidance.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
8 
Communication and Guidance  
Open communicat ion is central to Baxter’s commitment to integrity. The company offers numerous channels to educate and counsel employees 
as well as confidential avenues to report suspected violations of law and policy (see graphic), which it investigates promptl y and rep orts to 
senior management as appropriate. Managers are responsible for maintaining an environment that enables employees to safely ra ise and 
discuss issues. In this way, Baxter prevents incidents from occurring and addresses issues when they do arise.  
One such channel is the Baxter Ethics and 
Compliance Helpline, an independent telephone 
and Web resource available to employees and 
their families, suppliers, customers and other 
Baxter stakeholders to raise issues and open 
communications about possible comp any ethics 
and compliance issues. Callers can report an 
issue or seek guidance in any one of 150 
languages, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 
and may choose to remain anonymous. No caller 
identification features are attached to this line.  
Baxter Ethics a nd Compliance 
Helpline  
Phone:  1-877-BAXTER3  
Fax: 1-847-948-2867  
Web 
In 2013, 355 inquiries from 39 countries were 
logged into the Helpline system and addressed in 
a prompt,  thorough and professional manner. Not 
all of these inquiries were reports of alleged 
misconduct or related to compliance.  
Baxter encourages employees to use the Helpline, COIC process and other channels to ask questions and seek advice. Items iden tified 
through these channels also help Ethics and Compliance personnel to identify key risks, develop appropriate training, enhance  policies and 
procedures, and design and conduct compliance assessments.  
Upon receipt of reasonable indications of suspected noncom pliance, the Ethics and Compliance department, working with other functions and 
in coordination with business leaders, will triage and investigate the allegations to gather the facts and take appropriate r emedial action where 
necessary.  
Employee Perspectiv e 
“ Building a reputation of integrity takes years, but it takes only a second to lose. “  
Mohamed, Area Sales Director, Middle East  
 
 
 
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/work -life.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/talent -management.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
2 
 
 
 
 
Employees  
Providing a great place for Baxter's approximately 61,000 employees worldwide to work and develop is central 
to the company's vision. To help employees realize their full potential and reward them for their contributions, 
Baxter offers a wide range of learning and development opportunities and comprehensive compensation and 
benefits programs. Additionally, Baxter strives to create an inclusive and diverse work environm ent that 
enables employees to collaborate and innovate while providing the flexibility to manage their work and 
personal lives.   
Baxter's workplace culture is defined by the Baxter Leadership Expectations which include the shared values, competencies and  personal attributes that 
employees need to succeed. With a common understanding of how to approach their work, Baxter employees know what to expect fr om one another, 
and how to achieve great results. These Baxter Leadership Expectations apply to every emplo yee, every day and everywhere at Baxter.  
This section covers the following topics:  
• Talent  Management  
• Sustainability  Education  
• Compensation  and Benefits  
• Measuring  Company  Culture  
• Global  Inclusion  and Diversity  
• Flexibility  and Work/Life  
 
View a chart of Baxter's Global Workforc e. 
Talent Management  
As part of Baxter’s commitment to being a great place to work and develop, the company provides employees the opportunity to advance their 
knowledge and expand their skills. Baxter focuses on the following to ensure the sustain ability of its workforce and to drive a high -performing culture : 
• Leadership  Expectations  
• Individual  and Corporate  Goal  Alignment  
• Succession  Management  
• Talent  Development  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/talent -management.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
3 
Leadership Expectations  
The Baxter Leadership Expectations ( see graphic ) are the foundation of the company's culture. They outline what Baxter expects of all employees. This 
framework includes:  
• Shared Values  - the beliefs and standards employees bring to their work;  
• Competencies  - the skills and knowledge necessary to achieve goals; and  
• Personal Attributes  - the characteristics and behaviors that enable employees to succeed at Baxter.  
The Leadership Expectations are fully integrated into recruiting, development, rewards and assessment practices.  
Individual and Corporate Goal Alignment  
At Baxter, each business, region and function aligns to the company’s corporate framework to set goals for their respective o rganization and each of 
their employees. The company focuses on six key strategic priorities (see below). To ensure alignment with the global priorities, employees establish at 
least one goal in each category, in alignment with their organization’s priorities.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Succession Management  
To ensure a robust leadership pipeline, the company assesses its talent through an organization i nventory process. The CEO conducts an annual talent 
review of Baxter’s business, regional and functional senior talent with the Operations Committee (senior management) to ensur e that the company is 
meeting its global organizational effectiveness and workf orce capability needs. The CEO also reviews development and succession planning with 
Baxter’s Board of Directors. The Board of Directors oversees the succession management process to ensure rigor, effectiveness  and support of the 
company’s diversity goals.  
The Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors oversees succession planning for the CEO.  
Talent Development  
Baxter’s talent development philosophy emphasizes a combination of work experiences, feedback and relationships, and training . 
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/talent -management.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
4 
Baxter believes that development should be:  
• A shared responsibility, owned by each employee, his or her  manager and Baxter;  
• A process and not an event;  
• Focused on goals important to both the employee and Baxter;  
• Focused on short -term actions as well as long -term career goals; and  
• Achieved through work experiences, learning from feedback and relationships, a nd training.  
To support this process, Baxter launched the MyCareer@Baxter portal which provides employees around the globe with developmen t and planning 
tools, as well as comprehensive information about performance expectations and goals, training opportun ities and jobs at Baxter.  
In 2013, the company launched a new talent management system to better enable Baxter’s standardized and integrated talent pro cesses including 
performance management, development planning and talent acquisition. The new state -of-the-art technology also provides additional reporting, visibility 
of talent and supporting tools to help managers as they work to develop their teams.  
The company also provides a wide variety of learning and development resources through the company’s global  training system. This training system 
provides more than 29,000 computer -based and classroom offerings on topics such as Food and Drug Administration regulations, Good Manufacturing 
Practice guidelines and job specific skills.  
Online learning is available  to all employees, with courses offered in up to 20 languages. More than 2,800 e -Learning programs cover topics such as 
Baxter processes, systems and products; quality; leadership and career development; PC skills; environment, health and safety ; pharmacov igilance; 
project management; and communication. Employees completed more than 195,000 e -Learning courses in 2013. Also see  Ethics and Compliance  for 
information on legal and regulatory compliance training.  
In 2013, employees globally completed more than 1.2 million hours of training, an average of 18 hours per employee.  
Baxter’s ongoing talent development efforts contribute to workforce engagement and retention. Voluntary employee turnover in 2013 was 9.5% globally.  
Top Talent Development  
In 2013, Baxter hosted a leadership development program in Bangkok, Thailand, for 32 leaders from various parts of the compan y. Developed in 
partnership  with Harvard University, the program consists of two one -week sessions and helps participants become effective leaders by developing a 
global mindset and enhancing their strategic thinking and leadership skills.  Prior to the in -person sessions, pa rticipan ts complete a 360 -degree  
assessment process to help set targeted development goals. In between the two sessions, participants participated in cross -functional/business action -
learning projects where they addressed real challenges posed by senior leadership . The teams were sponsored by senior leaders and the 
recommendations, in most cases, will be implemented in the organization.  
In addition, top talent employees have access to other global in -person programs deployed in various regions of the world includin g Situational 
Leadership and Leading in the Matrix.  
Training for Managers  
Baxter also provides employees with tools and techniques to be effective leaders. Management Essentials training helps partic ipants develop and refine 
skills related to accountabili ty, career and development planning, change management, coaching and feedback, communication, critical thinking and 
problem solving, facilitation, interviewing, and managing conflict and performance. During 2013, more than 2,000 managers com pleted at least  one 
Management Essentials course.  
As managers progress from supervising individuals to leading teams, they face new challenges and demands. In 2013, Baxter hel d 50 sessions of 
Leading for Results for experienced managers and directors. It consists of live  workshops, online courses and webinars to address aspects of the Baxter 
Leadership Expectations, including business acumen, motivating and developing others, critical thinking and problem solving, and communication. 
During 2013, nearly 330 managers comple ted at least one Leading for Results course.  
Baxter’s global online employee mentoring program helps connect mentors and participants based on customized profiles, so the y can share 
experiences and career -related knowledge. As of 2012, more than 1,950 empl oyees have enrolled.  
Employee Perspective  
“When it comes to my career development, even after 20 years, Baxter continues to provide me with fantastic opportunities to apply my 
skills, and to learn and develop new skills. What I find most rewarding is that I’m expected to be a leader at Baxter, regardless of the function 
or role I am in.”      
Hannah, Information Technology Manager, Los An geles, California, United State s 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/sustainability -education.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/compensation -and-benefits.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/measuring -company -culture.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
5 
 
Sustainability Education  
To help achieve Baxter’s sustainability goals, the company works to educate and engage employees in its sustainability initiatives. In Baxter’s 
2013 Culture Survey,  76% of employees worldwide indicated that the company’s sustainability programs were important to them. The  Sustainability 
Steering Committee  reviews survey results to  assess progress and identify opportunities for improvement in programs related to the environment, health 
and safety, inclusion, ethics and compliance, and other areas.  
Baxter engages and communicates with employees about its sustainability efforts throug h various channels, including:  
• Quarterly all -employee webcasts during which CEO Bob Parkinson discusses sustainability;  
• Regular internal communications about sustainability practices at the company worldwide;  
• A sustainability intranet site that provides su ccess stories, tips and other tools to help engage employees on the company's sustainability 
priorities, and the ability for employees to provide feedback and ask questions about sustainability;  
• The annually updated  Sustainability  at Baxter  brochure , which  is available in several languages and is often shared during new hire 
orientation sessions;  
• Quarterly press releases highlighting achievements posted throughout facilities; and  
• Events focused on environmental initiatives and healthy living such as Baxter World Environment Week and  BeWell@Baxter , and 
volunteerism to address local concerns such as healthcare and education.  
 
See Employee Involvement for more information . 
Employee Perspective  
“I’m fortunate to say that my role within Baxter does indeed contribute to a greater good. Every day, I help provide guidance  to the company 
and its employees who seek to do business with high integrity and in compliance w ith the law. I feel privileged to work for a company that’s 
considered to be a leader in sustainability.”  
Peter, Senior Counsel, De erfield, Illinois, United State s 
 
Compensation and Benefits  
Baxter’s global total compensation philosophy is to provide marke t-competitive pay and benefits while rewarding employees for strong individual and 
business performance.  
The company’s total compensation package includes base salary and may include incentive pay, such as cash bonuses and stock -based compensation. 
It also  includes comprehensive benefits, which vary by region and country, to help employees meet their healthcare, income -protection, financial, 
retirement and time -off needs. Through the Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP), Baxter employees can share in the com pany's growth. The ESPP 
allows employees to purchase Baxter common stock each month at a 15% discount through convenient payroll deductions with no b rokerage fees, 
subject to certain limitations. For information on executive compensation, click  here. 
Baxter values the health of its employees and their families and recognizes that a healthy, productive workforce is vital to achieving com pany goals. As 
part of Baxter's commitment in this area, the company offers many programs and resources to help employees meet their persona l goals and family 
needs (see  Flexibil ity and Work/Life ). Additionally, BeWell@Baxter, the company's health and wellness program, helps employees stay well through 
education and prevention, take action to make healthy lifestyle changes and deal with chronic or acute conditions.  
Measuring Compa ny Culture  
Every two years, Baxter conducts a companywide survey to gather employee feedback on what is going well and areas where the c ompany needs to 
make improvements. More than 90% of Baxter's employees worldwide completed the survey in 2013, surpassin g the 2011 response rate. The survey 
was administered in 18 languages. In line with prior survey results, the company’s dedication to quality products, customer f ocus and health and safety 
remained the highest -scoring areas. Baxter plans to conduct its nex t survey in 2015.  
The company made significant progress in the areas identified for improvement in 2011:  
Continuous improvement:  Employee feedback highlighted that efforts continue to drive improvements throughout the organization reinforcing a culture 
where every employee continuous ly evaluates how they can be more effici ent and effective in their work . 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/measuring -company -culture.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/global -inclusion -diversity.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
6 
Clarity Around Strategy and Innovation:  Employees stated that Baxter is providing a 
clearer picture of the company’s direction and creating a climate in which innovation is 
encourage d. 
Global Inclusion:  The Global Inclusion survey category had one of the most significant 
increases compared to 2011, demonstrating that Baxter’s inclusion and diversity efforts 
are having a positive impact on company culture. Additionally, Baxter observed  that 
managers who participated in the Power of Managing Inclusively class responded more 
favorably to Global Inclusion questions, suggesting that this managerial training course 
is helping to advance an inclusive culture.  Learn more . 
Based on the 2013 survey results, continuous improvement remains a focus area for 
Baxter. The company has conducted more than 150 sessions globally with over 1,400 
participants to id entify opportunities to drive a culture of continuous improvement. 
Additionally, Baxter is focusing on career development for both employees and 
managers. In 2013, Baxter piloted in -person workshops for both groups focused on 
career development. Baxter pla ns to offer these more broadly as part of a phased global 
roll-out. 
Employee Perspective  
“Baxter is a great fit for me because each day brings new challenges and opportunities that help me grow personally and profe ssionally. I 
believe that through our collective efforts, Baxter’s legacy of helping save and sustain the lives of millions of people globally will continue to 
flourish. That’s what I want my career to be about and that’s why I’ve chosen Baxter.”  
Will, Senior Marketing Manager, Deerfield, Illi nois, United State s 
 
Global Inclusion and Diversity  
Baxter believes that an inclusive culture and a diverse workforce can contribute to the company’s success 
and sustainability by driving innovation and creating trusted relationships with employees, custo mers, 
suppliers and community partners. This thinking underpins Baxter's global inclusion and diversity strategy, 
which is directly linked to one of the company's shared values – respect for individuals and the diverse 
contributions of all. The company’s f ocus is to attract, motivate and retain a diverse workforce that allows us 
to better understand and address the diverse needs of our employees, customers, business sup pliers, 
patients and caregivers . 
Baxter's global inclusion and diversity strategy focuses  on four key areas:  
• Workforce  - building a diverse organization globally;  
• Workplace  - creating an inclusive culture that values diversity;  
• Communities  - building partnerships with community organizations that embrace and support 
diverse stakeholder groups ; and   
• Marketplace  - promoting Baxter's commitment to inclusion through its brand, customers and 
supplier relationships.  
In Baxter’s 2013 Culture Survey, the Global Inclusion survey category had one of the most significant 
increases compared to 2011, demon strating that Baxter’s inclusion and diversity efforts are having a positive impact on the company’s culture. To 
continue to reinforce the importance of fostering an inclusive culture Baxter again required all employees worldwide to have at least one inclu sion goal in 
their individual goals for the year. Since 2011, Baxter's senior executives have inclusion goals and are held accountable for  fostering an inclusive work 
environment where we are hiring and promoting qualified diverse candidates.  
Learn more ab out Baxter’s programs and progress in the following areas:  
• Global Inclusion Council  
• Inclusion and Diversity Training  
• Business Resource Groups  
• 2013 Business and Regional Initiatives  
• Equal Opportunity for All Employees  
• Supplier Diversity  
• Award s
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/measuring -company -culture.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/global -inclusion -diversity.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
7 
Global Inclusion Council  
Baxter’s Global Inclusion Council provides thought leadership, guidance and support to enhance the company’s inclusive cultur e. In collaboration with 
the Global Inclusion Council, businesses, regions and functions worldwide develop local inclusion plans. These incorporate Baxter -wide opportunities, in 
addition to addressing unique local inclusion priorities and requirements. The Council works closely with Baxter’s Human Reso urces Leadership Team 
and Sustainability Steering Committee, which  ensures alignment and support among the company's senior leadership. In 2013, the Global Inclusion 
Council benchmarked the company’s 2013 inclusion and diversity status compared to companies of similar size and developed Bax ter’s 2014 -2016 
inclusi on and d iversity strategic plan . 
Inclusion and Diversity Training  
As part of a phased approach, in 2012 Baxter launched The Power of Managing Inclusively, a four -hour instructor -led, mandatory workshop for all 
managers, supervisors and above. In 2013, more than 4, 700 employees completed the training, achieving the company’s 2013 goal to have 75% of the 
target population complete the workshop. Managers who participated in the Power of Managing Inclusively class responded more favorably to Global 
Inclusion questions posed in our Culture Survey, suggesting that this managerial training course is helping to advance an inclusive culture. In a ddition, 
since 2011, nearly all Baxter employees have completed a companywide training on contributing to a n inclusive culture at B axter.  
Business Resource Groups  
Business Resource Groups (BRGs) provide a forum for employees to develop skills, experience valuable cultural connections and  support key business 
initiatives. These groups support Baxter’s business goals and aim to enhance personal growth and multicultural understanding, while strengthening 
relationships among employees and with customers, business partners and community partners. In 2013, Baxter launched three ad ditional BRGs – 
Baxter EnAbles, BaxVets and Early Career Profe ssionals – for a total of eight BRGs. The company’s other BRGs include the African -American 
Leadership Council, the Asian Leadership Network, the Baxter Equality Network, Building Women Leaders and Latinos@Baxter. Eac h BRG is 
sponsored by a member of Baxte r’s Operations Committee. The company also expanded BRGs globally to include new chapters around the world.  
View a video  about the Baxter Equality Network.  
2013 Business and R egional Initiatives  
Baxter’s BioScience business:  BioScience launched cross -cultural mentoring in 2013, a program focused on developing and retaining diverse top 
talent. Additionally,  the business launched two inclusion and diversity action teams charged w ith gathering data, benchmarking and making 
recommendations in the areas of retaining diverse talent and enhancing Baxter’s culture of inclusion.  
Baxter’s Medical Products business:  The Medical Products inclusion and diversity task force launched two new e ducational modules in 2013. The 
first module, Exploring Dimensions of Diversity, is designed to build a more inclusive and diverse culture at Baxter. The sec ond, Exploring Cultural 
Competence, introduces the concept of cultural competence and includes a fa cilitated exercise to explore team members' differences. Additionally, the 
task force drove awareness and use of the Cultural Navigator – a tool for building connections within teams, by creating a series of videos featuring 
Medical Products employees talk ing about their experiences and benefits using this unique tool.  
Baxter’s EMEA region:  In 2013, the Baxter Equality Network, Baxter’s LGBT Business Resource Group, established its first chapter in Europe. Local 
team members and a leader in Austria develope d the chapter. Additionally, Baxter signed the Charter of Diversity in Austria, an initiative by the Austrian 
Chamber of Commerce for private corporations, organizations and public institutions that want to publicly disclose their enga gement for inclusion and 
diversity of all members of the society. Founded in 2010, the Charter of Diversity has become the leading platform for inclus ion and diversity networking 
in Austria.  
Baxter’s Asia Pacific region:  The region continued to focus on gender diversity and attracting and retaining talented women. In 2013, there was 
increased focus on Alternative Work Arrangements across the region. In Japan, Baxter was among the top six finalists recogniz ed by Japan Women’s 
Innovative Network (J -Win) in the Advanced category , which awards companies who have had long -term results as part of their efforts on gender 
diversity. Baxter also ranked as one of the Top 9 companies in the Work -Life category of Nikkei Women.  
Baxter’s Latin America region:  In 2013, the region sponsored i ts second annual Inclusion and Diversity Week. Throughout the week, teams across the 
region participated in a variety of activities including town hall meetings, speaking engagements with external speakers, pan el discussions and local 
heritage celebrations .  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/global -inclusion -diversity.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employees/work -life.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
8 
Equal Opportunity for All Employees  
Baxter is committed to equal opportunity for all employees. Every individual's unique background and experiences contribute t o a successful 
organization.  Discrimination in hiring, promotion and all other employment decisions on the basis of race, color, religion, gender, national origin, age, 
disability, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, veteran status or any other basis protected by federal, state or local laws is prohibited. 
Baxter's glo bal operations comply with applicable laws around the world. Employees are encouraged to raise any issues or concerns through  one of the 
channels outlined in Baxter’s "Prohibition of Workplace Harassment" policy.  The tables below illustrate Baxter's ethnic  and gender diversity at various 
levels in the company.  
 
Supplier Diversity  
Baxter works to develop mutually beneficial relationships with small and diverse suppliers. The company plans to continue exp anding the diversity of its 
supplier base to reflect the demographics of Baxter's customers. See Supplier Diversity  for more information.  
Awards  
Several leading organizations recognized Baxter for its inclusion and diversity efforts in 2013. Click here  for a comprehensive list.  
Flexibility and Work/Life  
Baxter believes that managers and employees share the responsibility to achieve a healthy blend of work and personal and fami ly life.  
Baxter's global operations collaborate with external organizations, as appropriate, to develop and implement flexible work/life progra ms. The following 
programs and resources are all available in the United States and many are offered globally:  
• Adoption assistance and reimbursement;  
• Alternate work arrangements;  
• Back -up/emergency child and elder care;  
• Child care supportBoard and Executive Leadership Diversity  
 2009  2010  2011  2012  2013 
Ethnic (% non -white of total)  
Board of Directors  7.7%  7.7%  8.3%  23.1%  23.1%  
Executive Management*  11.1% 17.7%  11.8%  12.5%  7.8%  
Gender (% female of total)  
Board of Directors  15.4%  15.4%  16.7%  23.1%  23.1%  
Executive Management*  27.8%  17.6%  17.6%  18.8%  15.4%  
* The data set of Executive Management aligns with Executive Management listed on www.Baxter.com as of December 31, 2013  
Gender Diversity at Baxter (% Female Globally)  
 2009*  2010*  2011*  2012*  2013*  
Vice President and 
Above  19.2%  19.8%  21.5%  21.4%  24.4%  
Supervisor/Director  48.5%  47.8%  48.0%  47.8%  46.3%  
Non-Manager  55.8%  55.4%  54.1%  53.6%  54.2%  
Overall  52.5%  51.9%  51.3%  50.8%  50.5%  
* Figures do not include Baxter Credit Union employees, which were approximately 0.1% of the total population.  
** These percentages include employees from Baxter’s Gambro acquisition.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/employee s/work -life.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
9 
 
• Dependent -care flexible spending accounts;  
• Educational assistance;  
• Eldercare management services;  
• Employee assistance and counseling programs;  
• Lactation rooms;  
• Resource and referrals to local service providers for family, financial and work issues;  
• Webinars on topics such as stress management and parenting (in English but offered worldwide).  
More than 45 percent of eligible employees (regular employees working at least 20 hours a week) used one or more of these pro grams in 2013. Baxter 
estimates conservatively that it realizes nearly $5 of benefit for every dollar inves ted in work/life programs through reduced absenteeism and enhanced 
productivity. This is based on employee surveys and program utilization data to compare the value of estimated employee time saved to the total cost of 
the program.  
Alternate Work Arrangements  
Alternate work arrangements help to meet employees' needs for flexibility while supporting Baxter’s business goals. The compa ny’s Alternate Work 
Arrangement Proposal Kit helps employees and managers to review the steps required for proposing a nd reviewing requ ests for flexibility. Determining  
the most appropriate alternate work arrangement typically considers t he employee’s job requirements, personal needs, and work performance, as well 
as business needs and goals.  
Employee Perspective  
“I joine d Baxter while completing my master’s degree in physics. I received a friendly welcome, on -the-job training and a work schedule that 
was very accommodating to my intense research schedule. What I’ve discovered is that there are a number of ways to be creat ive and 
contribute at Baxter. There’s an atmosphere of inclusion, where everyone’s ideas are valued and respected. ” 
Michael, Quality Associate II, BioLife Plasma Services, De erfield, Illinois, United Stat es   
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/index.html  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     2 
Environment, Health and Safety  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baxter's Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) organization manages and coordinates global programs and 
activities to reduce the company's environmental impacts, to create safe and healthy workplaces, and to 
advance product stewardship.  
 
This report covers  the eighth year of performance against the company's EHS 2015 goals, which are integrated into the company's overarching 
sustainability priorities.  
Results from 2013 include the following:  
• Baxter reduced energy usage by 27% and associated greenhouse gas ( GHG) emissions by 40% since 2005, both indexed to revenue. 
Baxter saved approximately $41 million in 2013 based on energy conservation projects that the company has implemented since 2 005. 
• The company reduced waste generation 26% compared to 2005, indexed to revenue. Eight sites participating in Baxter’s plastic waste 
reduction program reduced plastic waste by 444 metric tons in 2013.  
• Baxter reduced water usage by 34% indexed to revenue since 2005. In 2013, the company continued implementation of a communit y water 
project near Baxter’s manufacturing facility in Canlubang, Philippines, and initiated a partnership to implement a similar in itiative near the 
company’s facility in Cuernavaca, Mexico.  
• The company improved its recordable case rate by 2%, its cases with days lost rate by 38%, and its days lost rate by 46%, compared to 
2012.  
Baxter recognizes the interconnection between aspects of its environmental footprint, such as water consumption, energy usage  and GHG 
emissions within its manufac turing operations. For example, producing highly purified water for Baxter healthcare products uses significant 
amounts of energy to operate water purification equipment such as reverse osmosis and water distillation units. As a result, water conservation 
initiatives in this area also help the company to reduce energy use and associated GHG emissions. Taking a holistic view to u nderstand and 
decrease the company’s environmental impacts is  central to Baxter’s approach. 
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/index.html  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/ehs -program/policy -and-vision.html  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environmen t-health -safety/ehs -program/program -governance.html  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     3 
Scope of Baxter EHS Reporting  
• The envir onmental data included in this report are based on 130 reporting locations, of which 59 are manufacturing, 23 are warehouse, and 
48 are administrative, clerical or other. Several of the reporting units comprise multiple locations that report as a single entity. For example, 
in 2013, Baxter's 69 plasma collection centers in North America reported as a single entity, as did the 55 renal therapy site s located in 
Colombia. The reporting scope excludes certain leased facilities and recent acquisitions for which environmental performance data are not 
available or are not considered to be material to Baxter’s overall environmental performance.  
• The health and safety data included in this report are based on 275 reporting locations.1 
• Regional breakdowns for EHS data are as follows: Asia Pacific; Latin America; Europe, Middle East and Africa; and North America.  
• The EHS information reported covers 100% of Baxter's operations.  
• EHS data are revised to reflect acquisitions, divestitures and plant closings as well as to inc orporate any corrections necessary due to 
additional data verification activities (such as EHS audits).  
1 The scope of Baxter's health and safety data is different than the scope of the company's environmental data because Baxter's  occupational 
injury and illness accounting includes smaller facilities that are not material to the company's overall environmental performance or ar e reported 
as individual operations rather than as combined locations.  
EHS Vision and Policy  
Baxter Environment, Health and Safety Vision  
To achieve a sustainable enterprise that creates stakeholder value by advancing superior environmental stewardship, the highe st level of 
employee health and well -being,  and an injury -free workplace.  
Baxter Environment, Health and Safety Policy  
Our Commitment to People and the Environment  
Baxter will be a global leader in Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) management. This is consistent with Baxter’s busines s interests and 
code of conduct. Specifically, we commit to the following:  
Sustainability  - We will strive to conserve resources and minimize or eliminate adverse EHS aspects and hazards that may be associated with 
our products, services and operations.  
Employees  - We will provide a safe and healthy workplace, striving to prevent injuries and i llnesses, promoting healthy lifestyles and 
encouraging respect for the environment. We will ensure that our employees have the awareness, skills and knowledge to carry out this policy.  
Compliance  - We will meet all applicable EHS laws and Baxter EHS requir ements.  
Business Integration  - We will integrate EHS considerations into our business activities.  
Customers  - We will work with our customers to help them address their EHS needs.  
Suppliers and Contractors  - We will work with our suppliers and contractors to enhance EHS performance.  
Community and Government  - We will participate in community and government EHS initiatives.  
Baxter commits to continuous improvement in environmental, health and safety performance. We will set goals, measure progress  and 
commun icate results.  
Compliance with this policy is the responsibility of every employee.  
Signed October 2012  
Robert L. Parkinson, Jr.  
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  
Originally adopted August 1997  
Program Governance  
Baxter's environmental, health and safety (EHS) governance structure is designed to help the EHS organization realiz e its vision, implement its 
policy, achieve its goals and help create long -term business value for the company. This includes contributing to Baxter’s sustainability 
strategies, programs and performance. 
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/ehs -program/program -governance.html  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/ehs -program/ehs -goals.html  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     4 
EHS Organization and Reporting Structure  
Baxter's EHS organization, made up of more than 280 full -time equivalent employees around the world, manages the company’s EHS 
compliance requirements and risks. The organization works with a diverse group of internal and external stakeholders to addre ss emerging 
EHS issues and related business challenges. The EHS organization, including business group EHS support teams, has reported to global 
manufacturing since 2003. EHS Legal and Audit Services reports to the Ethics and Compliance function of Baxter’s Legal depar tment to 
preserve the objectivity of legal advice and the  global EHS auditing function.  
EHS functional and regional teams (see graphic) provide input to Baxter’s EHS Leadership Team, composed of EHS directors and other 
leaders who establish and maintain t he company’s 
EHS policy , global EHS requirements, strategy 
and goals . This promotes alignment, engagement 
and commitment throughout the global EHS 
organization.  
Baxter's vice president of EHS and sustainability 
meets at least once a year with the Public Po licy 
Committee of the company's board of directors. In 
2013, he presented EHS performance updates and 
reported progress on related sustainability 
initiatives. In a separate meeting of the Public Policy 
Committee, Chairman and CEO Robert L. 
Parkinson, Jr., discussed the broader sustainability 
program.  
Accountability for EHS Performance  
In 2013, as in previous years, the performance 
management objectives of Manufacturing and 
Operations leadership included measures tied to 
Baxter’s goals to reduce safety incidents, energy 
and water use and waste generation. Also, the 
company disclosed in its 2014 proxy statement that 
the goals set for Baxter’s CEO include items related 
to sustainability, and these factor into decisions 
related to his compensation.  
EHS 2015  Goals  
Baxter's Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) 
organization conducts strategic planning to establish 
long-term EHS goals, assess related resource 
needs and ensure critical business alignment. The 
company considers feedback from internal and 
external stakeholders in determining its long -term goals. The Baxter Manufacturing Council establishes goals for Baxter’s manufacturing 
operations on an annual basis that include targets related to energy, waste and water reduction, as well as safety. These are  a part of many 
senior managers' and plant managers' annual performance objectives. Yearly manager performance evaluations, including conside rations 
related to compensation, take into account business unit and facility progress in these areas. In 2013 annual b onuses for leaders in the 
manufacturing organization were, in part, tied to the company's performance along these dimensions.  
The following interactive table summarizes performance against Baxter's EHS 2015 goals. The company recognizes the importance  of 
aspirational targets and in 2011 launched these goals, some of which align with Baxter’s overarching sustainability priorities . See Priorities and 
Goals – Our Ope rations and Products  for additional detail.  
  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/ehs -program/ehs -goals.html  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/ehs -program/ehs -goals.html  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/index.html  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/ehs -program/ ehs-management -systems.html  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     7 
EHS Management Systems and Certifications  
Baxter's global Environment, Health and  Safety (EHS) Policy and EHS requirements provide the foundation for the company's EHS program, 
establishing the minimum standards all facilities must meet and maintain. These requirements protect employees and company as sets, 
minimize environmental impact , reduce company risk, and enhance Baxter’s reputation and EHS leadership. Baxter assesses all of its facilities 
using the same performance measurement system.  
EHS Management System Standards  
Baxter follows a management -systems approach guided by its global EHS requirements. The company applies the International Organization 
for Standardization (ISO) 14001 Environmental Management System Standard to systematically manage its environmental aspects a nd 
hazards. Baxter generally requires third -party certi fication to ISO 14001 for the company’s manufacturing and research and development sites, 
and distribution sites with a capacity of more than 10,000 filled pallets or a workforce of 100 or more people. Facilities th at do not meet these 
criteria still may c hoose to apply ISO 14001 standards and seek certification to improve their environmental performance.  
Successful ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 audits verify that a facility's management system supports compliance with relevant regu lations and 
company policy. F ollowing a successful corporate EHS audit, Baxter’s external auditing and certification body recommends a facility for 
certification to these standards.  
In 1997, Baxter began to certify a group of facilities to ISO 14001, working with ERM Certification and  Verification Services, the company’s 
external auditing and certification body. Since then, Baxter’s group ISO 14001 certification has evolved into a global certif ication. As of year -end 
2013, 69 Baxter locations have met the requirements of ISO 14001 and are covered by Baxter’s ISO 14001 group certificate.  
Baxter applies the Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001 to properly manage hazards that pose risk t o 
employees. The company recommends but does not require facility certificatio n to OHSAS 18001. Manufacturing, research and development, 
and distribution sites that have achieved third -party ISO 14001 certification generally also pursue third -party OHSAS 18001 certification. In 
2007, Baxter established a group certificate for OHSAS 18001. As of year -end 2013, 58 Baxter locations were certified to OHSAS 18001.  
Baxter’s global certifications have enabled the company to improve consistency in facility evaluation and reduce external aud it frequency and 
costs.  
Green Building Certification  
In 2010, Baxter approved an EHS policy that requires new sites or those undergoing major renovations to conduct a green build ing review. The 
company encourages certification to international building rating standards such as the U.S. Green Building Counci l’s Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design (LEED), the UK’s Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM), and the Swiss  
certification for building energy consumption, Minergie. As of February 2014, seven Baxter buildings were certified to green building standards.  
Examples of green buildings at Baxter include the following:  
• Canada  - Baxter’s office building in Mississauga, Ontario, applied for Canada LEED certification in May 2012. More than 90% of employe es 
in the facilit y enjoy direct lines of sight outdoors, and controls enable 90% of occupants to adjust lighting for individual needs. All new  wood -
based materials are certified to Forest Stewardship Council standards.  
• Italy - In February 2014, a new facility at Baxter’s R ieti manufacturing site was certified to the Italia LEED Gold standard.  
• Italy - In 2011, Baxter’s business office in Rome was the company’s first facility in Europe to receive existing building certificati on to the Italia 
LEED Silver standard. An automatio n system controls heating and cooling on each side of the structure as the solar load changes 
throughout the day.  
• Switzerland  - Baxter’s European headquarters in Zurich achieved Minergie Plus certification in 2010. The building features water -based 
cooling  and heating and rooftop solar panels, and uses nearly 80 percent less energy than a typical office building of comparable siz e. 
• United States  - In 2013, the employee fitness center in Round Lake, Illinois, received LEED Silver certification. It features d aylight 
harvesting, as well as solar powered low -flow touchless faucets. All carpeting, flooring and finishes contain minimal to no volatile organic 
compounds.  
• United States  - Baxter’s manufacturing site in Los Angeles, California, applied for separate LEED Silver certifications for a new 
administrative facility and a new manufacturing building . 
 
 
 
 
  
http://s ustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/ehs -program/facilities -list.html  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     8 
 
Baxter Facilities with ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and Green 
Building Certification  
 
Baxter Facilities with ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and Green Building Certificat ion*, **  
Region/Country/State 
or Province  City ISO 
14001  OHSAS 
18001  Green Building   
Certification  
Asia  
Australia  Toongabbie  X X  
China  Guangzhou  X X  
China  Shanghai  X X  
China  Suzhou  X X  
China  Tianjin  X X  
India  Alathur  X   
India  Manesar  X X  
India  Waluj  X   
Japan  Miyazaki  X   
New Zealand  Auckland  X X  
Philippines  Canlubang  X X  
Singapore  Woodlands  X X  
Europe, Middle East and Africa  
Austria  Orth X X  
Austria  Vienna  X X LEED Gold (2011)***  
Belgium  Lessines  X X  
Belgium  Lessines BDCE  X X  
Belgium  Braine l’Alleud  X X  
Czech Republic  Bohumil  X X  
France  Lyon    BREEAM Good (2011)  
France  Maurepas  X X  
Germany  Bielefeld  X X  
Germany  Halle Westfalen  X X  
Germany  Höchstadt  X X   
http://s ustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/ehs -program/facilities -list.html  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     9 
Ireland  Castlebar/Swinford  X X  
Ireland  Dublin/Belfast  X   
Italy Grosotto  X X  
Italy Monselice  X X  
Italy Pisa X X  
Italy Rieti X X LEED Gold (2014)  
Italy Rome  X X Italia LEED Silver (2011)  
Italy Sesto Fiorentino  X X  
Malta  Marsa  X X  
Poland  Lublin  X   
Portugal  Sintra  X X  
Spain  Sabiñánigo  X X  
Spain  Valencia/Las 
Palmas  X X  
Sweden  Rosersberg    EU GreenBuilding (2011)  
Switzerland  Effretikon/Volketswil  X X  
Switzerland  Neuchâtel  X X  
Switzerland  Zurich    Minergie Plus (2010)  
Tunisia  Oued Ellil  X X  
Turkey  Istanbul  X X  
United Kingdom  Mount Vernon  X X  
United Kingdom  Northampton  X X  
United Kingdom  Stockport  X X  
United Kingdom  Thames  X X  
United Kingdom  Thetford  X X  
Latin America  
Brazil  São Paulo  X X  
Colombia  Cali X X  
Costa Rica  Cartago  X X  
Mexico  Atlacomulco  X X  
Mexico  Cuernavaca  X X  
Puerto Rico  Aibonito  X X   
http://s ustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/ehs -program/facilities -list.html  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     10 
Puerto Rico  Guayama  X   
Puerto Rico  Jayuya  X   
North America  
Canada, Ontario  Alliston  X X  
Canada, Ontario  Mississauga    Canada LEED (applied)  
United States, 
Arkansas  Mountain 
Home/Midway  X X  
United States, 
California  Hayward  X X  
United States, 
California  Irvine  X   
United States, 
California  Los Angeles/Van 
Nuys  X X LEED Silver (applied) for two buildings  
United States, 
California  Thousand Oaks  X X  
United States, Illinois  Round Lake, R&D  X  LEED Silver (2013)***  
United States, Illinois  Round Lake, 
Manufacturing  X   
United States, Indiana  Bloomington  X X  
United States, 
Mississippi  Cleveland  X X  
United States, North 
Carolina  Marion  X X  
* Satellite facilities are listed according to the primary facility certificate holder. Baxter’s group certificate lists these facilities separately.  
** As of December 31, 2013, unless stated otherwise.  
*** The building with green certification noted is one of several buildings at the designated location.  
   
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/ehs -program/ehs -audits.html  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/compliance/environmental.html  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     11 
EHS Audits  
Baxter's environmental, health and safety (EHS) audit process verifies that the company’s facilities have EHS programs that achieve re gulatory 
compliance and meet Baxter’s EHS requirements, objectives and goals. The company selects facilities to audit based on risk  profile, 
management system certification needs and other factors, such as management turnover and negative EHS performance trend s. In 2013, 
Baxter conducted EHS audits at 28 out of 132 applicable facilities.1 Of these, 11 were in the company’s Europe, Middle East and Africa region; 
eight were in North America; four were in Asia Pacific; and five were in Latin America.  
The company staffs its audit teams with professionals from the corporate EHS audit group and the EHS organization, as well as  external 
regulatory experts as appropriate. ERM Certification and Verification Services conducts certification audits to the Internation al Organization for 
Standardization (ISO) 14001 Environmental Management System Standard and/or the Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series 
(OHSAS) 18001, as appropriate. When auditors identify gaps, the audit team works with facility management to ensure the issue s are fully 
understood.  
Throughout the year, the EHS organization reviews the most common audit findings to syste matically address identified issues, strengthen 
corporate policy when needed and prioritize company initiatives. The EHS organization’s functional teams then address some ar eas with the 
most findings. In 2013, these included confined space entry and the co ntrol of energy sources during maintenance of powered equipment.  
Baxter requires closure of regulatory nonconformities within 60 days of an audit’s conclusion, and all other nonconformities within 180 days. 
Baxter’s EHS Audit Escalation Procedure helps inf orm senior management of any overdue nonconformities and ensures they approve 
extension of any deadlines.  
In addition to facility audits, Baxter also conducts targeted regulatory risk audits as warranted. In 2013, the corporate EHS  group focused on 
regulat ory and EHS risk areas such as confined space entry, construction safety, control of energy sources, occupational illness and  injury 
recordkeeping, radiation safety and wastewater.  
1 This includes the 12 recently acquired Gambro facilities.  
Environmental Compliance  
Baxter assesses its performance in environmental compliance using several measures:  
• Notices of violation (NOV)  - A written notice from a governmental agency that identifies environmental noncompliance.  
• Environmental fines  - Fines related to envi ronmental compliance issues.  
• Environmental compliance incidents  - Releases that exceed permit limits (exceedances) and other spills or releases that must be 
reported to the government. Some exceedances may result in NOVs.  
 
Baxter received 22 environmental NOVs in 2013.  
Baxter paid $28,400 in environmental fines in 2013.  
Environmental Notices of Violation and Fines  
 2009  2010  2011  2012  2013  
Wastewater NOVs  6 3 5 4 17 
Other Environmental NOVs  3 6 2 7* 5* 
Total Environmental NOVs  9 9 7 11 22 
Total Environmental Fines**  $800  $1,000  $9,985  $50,000  $28,400  
*Some of these NOVs also have aspects related to wastewater.  
** Fines paid during calendar year noted. In January 2013, Baxter’s Castlebar, Ireland, facility paid €19,376.20 (approximate ly $25,400)  as a 
result of a 2012 court case related to environmental violations. In January 2013, Baxter’s Thousand Oaks, California, United States facility paid 
a $3,000 fine for a 2012 NOV related to an air emission exceedance.  
Baxter has a goal to decrease overall environmental compliance incidents 75% by 2015, compared to 2005. While Baxter did not make 
progress toward this goal in 2013, the company expects the number of incidents in 2014 to decrease significantly following st ructural changes 
to its wastewater treatment facilities at a lar ge European manufacturing site. Eighty -eight percent of the incidents in 2013 occurred at this 
location. The company maintains its commitment to reduce compliance incidents through 2015. 
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/compliance/environmental.html  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/environmental -performance/perform ance -at-a-glance.html  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     12 
 
Environment al Compliance Incidents  
 2009  2010  2011  2012  2013  
Air 4 2 1 2 0 
Land  1 1 1 0 0 
Drinking Water  0 0 0 0 0 
Wastewater  39 67 78 98 581 
Total  44 70 78 100 581 
In 2013, all of Baxter’s environmental compliance incidents related to  wastewater . These included exceedances of 15 different parameters, of 
which the highest percentages included: temperature (72% of the total); pH (12%); chloride (5%); biological oxygen demand (BOD) (3%); a nd 
flow (2%).  
Baxter facilities discharge to regional or municipal wastewater treatment systems, or to surface waterways, such as r ivers, streams, or creeks. 
In 2013, all of Baxter’s wastewater -related compliance incidents occurred at facilities that discharge to regional or municipal wastewater 
treatment systems.  See Water and Wastewater  for more detail.  
Managing Waste Liability  
To manage waste disposal appropriately and minimize the risk of future liability, Baxter requires facilities to dispose of al l hazardous or other 
regulated waste at disposal sites that Baxter has inspected or from which the company has otherwise received sufficient assur ance of 
acceptable performance.  
Baxter applies the same waste site auditing standards worldwide, and trains inte rnal auditors to evaluate disposal site risk consistently. In 
addition, Baxter works with CHWMEG, Inc., a non -profit organization that enables companies to collectively purchase expert waste site audits.  
Baxter is involved as a potentially responsible part y (PRP) for environmental clean -up costs at seven hazardous waste sites. Under the U.S. 
Superfund statute and many state laws, generators of hazardous waste sent to a disposal or recycling site are liable for site  cleanup if 
contaminants from that property  later leak into the environment. The laws generally provide that a PRP may be held jointly and severally liable 
for the costs of investigating and remediating the site. The estimated potential exposure to Baxter for the seven sites menti oned above was 
approximately $9.6 million at year -end 2013. Separate from the Superfund cases noted above, Baxter paid approximately $172,000 for ongoing 
voluntary environmental remediation associated with historic operations at the company’s Irvine, California, United Stat es, facility in 2013.  
Health and Safety Compliance  
In 2013, Baxter received five health and safety -related notices of violation (NOV). The company also received an NOV related to hazardous 
materials transportation.  
Baxter implemented corrective actions to address matters raised by these violations.  
Health and Safety Notices of Violation and Fines  
 2009  2010  2011  2012  2013  
Notices of Violations Settles  6 3 2 3 6* 
Fines Paid (in dollars)  $1,733  $945  $0 $0 $2,000  
* Of the six notices of violation, five were issued by health and safety agencies and one was issued by the Minnesota Department of 
Transportation related to hazardous materials transportation.  
Environmental Performance At -a-Glance  
In 2013, Baxter continued working toward its  2015 environmental,  health and safety (EHS) goals.  As the graph below illustrates, the company 
continued to make progress toward its natural resource use reduction goals during the year. Baxter anticipates, however, that  continued 
business growth and changes to manufacturing  processes over the next several years will present a challenge to future reduction efforts.  
During the year, Baxter failed to make progress toward its environmental incidents -reduction goal due to wastewater exceedances at one 
location i n Europe. The company anticipates significant reduction in wastewater exceedances at this location in 2014 due to the complet ion of 
modifications to expand the capacity and capability of the local wastewater pretreatment system. See  Water and Wastewater  for more detail. 
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/environmental -performance/performance -at-a-glance.html  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     13 
 
See Energy , GHG Emissions from Operations , Waste , Water and Wastewater,  and Environmental Compliance  for more detail . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Environmental Financial Statement  
The following table describes environmental income, savings and cost avoidance realized in 2013 from activities completed dur ing the year, 
along with environmental program costs.  
Environmental Costs, 2013 (Dollars in Millions)  
Basic Program  $24.9  
Remediation, Waste and Other Response  14.1 
Total Environmental Program Costs  $39.0  
Environmental Income, Savings and Cost Avoidance, 2013 (Dollars in Millions)  
Total Waste Generation  $(1.8)  
Recycling (net Income)  7.2 
Energy Conservation  3.4 
Water Conservation  0.0 
Total Environmental Income, Savings and Cost Avoidance  $8.8 
 
 See the 2013 Environmental Financial Statement  for more detail.   
http://sustainability.b axter.com/environment -health -safety/environmental -performance/air -emissions.html  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/environmental -performance/biodiversity.html  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     14 
Air Emissions  
Due to an aggressive air toxics reduct ion program initiated in 1988, Baxter decreased toxic air emissions from its operations by approximately 
98% over the past 25 years. The company continues to monitor its air emissions and supports facility -led initiatives in this area. However, due 
to its low emissions levels, Baxter focuses its environmental programs and goals on other  issues.  
Baxter's toxic air emissions increased to approximately 18.2 metric tons in 2013, a 21% rise in absolute terms from 2012 and a 55% reduction 
indexed to revenue since  2005. Key factors included the following:  
• Di-2-ethylhexyl phthalate (DEHP), the company’s most significant air toxic from operations, increased from 11.9 to 13.3 metric ton s primarily 
due to increased PVC production.  
• Cumene emissions (in the category “oth er” in the graphic) increased by 1.2 metric tons due to rising production of non -PVC products.  
Baxter will continue to evaluate and install emissions -control technologies where necessary and feasible to further reduce air emissions 
associated with certain manufacturing activities.   
Emissions of sulfur oxides (SO x) decreased by 24% in absolute terms from 2012 to 2013. Energy conservation initiatives companywide and a 
transition from heavy fuel oils to lighter diesel fuels and natural gas at some locations ha ve led to these improvements. For example:  
• Guangzhou, China  – The facility continued to shift from diesel fuel to natural gas to operate on -site equipment such as boilers. This 
transition reduced SO x emissions by 86% in 2013 compared with 2012.  
• Shanghai, China  – In 2013, the site stopped using heavy fuel oil and switched to natural gas, essentially eliminating SO x emissions.  
• Manesar, India  – This facility began using natural gas in 2012, and further increased consumption compared to heavy fuel oil and diesel fuel 
in 2013. This reduced SO x emissions by 95% compared to 2012.  
Emissions of nitrogen oxides (NO x) remained relatively flat from 2012 to 2013. More than 50% of Baxter’s overall NO x emissions occur within 
North America, primarily due to the use o f biomass for steam production at one of Baxter’s largest manufacturing sites .  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Biodiversity  
While biodiversity is not a focus of Baxter’s nine  sustainability priorities,  it is an element of  Baxter's Bioethics Policy:  "Baxter recognizes that 
protecting the environment and maintaining the biological diversity of our planet is of vital importance to human life." By e ndorsing the  Ceres 
Principles , Baxter has committed to preservation of the biosphere. Principle 1 s tates, "we will safeguard all habitats affected by our operations 
and will protect open spaces and wilderness, while preserving biodiversity."
 
http:/ /sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/environmental -performance/biodiversity.html  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     15 
Baxter owns or leases approximately 1,000 hectares of land, about one -quarter of which is impermeable surface. Al though 22 of Baxter’s 58 
manufacturing and research and development sites are located in 11 of the world's biodiversity "hot spots"1 as designated by Conservation 
International, the company’s operations typically are situated in light industrial areas in m etropolitan regions. While Baxter does not require its 
facilities to report on activities to protect biodiversity, sites are required to understand their impact on the environment,  and incorporate 
conservation of biodiversity into their environmental manag ement systems or community outreach programs where appropriate.  
Baxter Site Activities in 2013  
During Baxter World Environment Week, the company’s signature initiative that engages and educates employees on environmental  
sustainability, facilities conduct biodiversity -related and environmental -preservation activities. During 2013, sites in 20 countries worldwide held 
local cleanups, educational campaigns (including two focused specifically on biodiversity), tree -planting events, and other biodiversity -focus ed 
activities. Examples included : 
• Australia  – A team from Baxter’s Toongabbie site met with the Parramatta Council's bushcare officer and the council's natural resources 
team to learn about opportunities and activities in local reserves.  
• Italy – The Pisa f acility organized a secondary school class visit to the Pisa Botanical Garden to raise environmental awareness.  
• Mexico  – Baxter’s Cuernavaca facility held a children’s workshop to promote environmental awareness with a focus on food -related 
activities, inc luding how to grow a garden.  
Other Baxter site activities in 2013 included:  
• Japan  – The Miyazaki, Japan, facility coordinated the cleanup of areas adjacent to the Kiyokate River community; and employees from t he 
Tokyo, Japan, site cleaned up the grounds of  a nursing home and surrounding areas.  
• Singapore  – The Woodlands site organized a beach cleanup with 54 Baxter employees.  
• Spain  – In collaboration with a non -governmental organization, employees at the Valencia facility monitored a nearby river’s water qua lity, 
held a wildlife “footprints collection workshop,” and learned how to remove local invasive species.  
Worldwide, Baxter facilities in 17 countries planted a total of more than 4,700 trees during the year.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baxter General Activities in 2013  
Center for Health and the Global Environment  
In 2011, the Center for Health and the Global Environment invited Baxter to join its Corporate Council, a group of six compani es supporting the 
organization. Founded in 1996 by physicians of Harvard Medical  School, the center studies and promotes wider acceptance of the human 
health consequences of global environmental change. The organization’s Biodiversity and Human Health Program educates policym akers and 
the public abou t the importance of preserving biod iversity through the lens of human health.  During 2013, Baxter participated in several events 
coordinated by this organization.  
  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/environmental -performance/energy -usage -and-ghg-emissions.html  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/environmental -performance/energy.html  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All  Rights Reserved     16 
Chicago Botanic Garden  
Baxter has supported the Chicago Botanic Garden in Glencoe, Illinois, United States, for more than 25 years, and contributed financially to the 
Chicago Botanic Garden Plant Science Center that opened in 2009. The center provides laboratories and teaching f acilities for more than 200 
Ph.D. scientists, land managers, students, and interns whose research includes preserving biodiversity. Awarded a LEED Gold c ertification by 
the U.S. Green Building Council, the Plant Science Center also serves as home to a uniq ue doctoral program in plant biology and conservation 
with Northwestern University and is the headquarters for the Garden’s international efforts in plant conservation.  
Baxter’s ongoing financial support helps the Garden’s scientists, researchers and stud ents make vital discoveries about plant survival, habitat 
destruction, invasive species and restoration.  
Additionally, Baxter sponsors the Garden’s annual celebration of World Environment Day in June, which focuses on community ed ucation. 
Baxter displays its sustainability efforts with an exhibit each year and collaborates with other sponsors on a children’s education theme. 
Approximately 4,200 visitors attended this event in 2013.  
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction  
Baxter’s continued efforts to reduce en ergy usage and associated greenhouse gas emissions from its operations and throughout Baxter’s value 
chain also support biodiversity. Pulitzer Prize winning author E.O. Wilson, Ph.D., projects that with current global trends, climate change alone 
may cause  an estimated one -quarter of the earth's animal and plant species to become extinct or destined for extinction by 2050.2 
1 A Hot Spot is an ecosystem that is biologically rich and endangered. Baxter has manufacturing or research and development sit es in th e 
following Conservation International Hot Spots: Atlantic Forest of Brazil, California Floristic Province, Caribbean Islands, Chilean Winter Rainfall 
Forest, Indo -Burma, Japan, Mediterranean Basin, Mesoamerica, Philippines, 
Sundaland and Tropical Andes.  
2 E.O. Wilson, "The Future of Life."  
Energy  
Managing energy use effectively enhances business efficiency and conserves 
natural resources. Reducing fossil fuel combustion improves air quality, decreases 
fine particulates that contribute to adverse health ef fects, and reduces  greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions . Limiting the use of non -renewable energy sources also 
helps preserve their availability for future generations.   
While energy conservation benefits the environment, it also makes good business 
sense for Baxter, since energy is one of the company’s most si gnificant 
manufacturing costs. Since 2005, while Baxter increased sales 50% through 2013, 
the company held absolute energy usage from operations to an approximate 9% 
increase. However, due to sharply increasing energy prices, Baxter’s 
corresponding facilit y-related energy costs rose 62% during this same period, to 
$183 million. This underscores the continued importance of the company’s ongoing 
energy conservation efforts. Baxter saved approximately $41 million in 2013 based 
on energy conservation projects t hat the company has implemented since 2005.  
Performance  
From 2005 to 2013, Baxter reduced energy consumption from operations by 27% 
indexed to revenue. This includes the energy used by Baxter -managed and Baxter -
operated facilities and excludes company -operated vehicles. Changes in 
manufacturing processes, and increased production and product development activities in 2013 contributed to a 3% increase of energy usage, 
compared to 2012. Continued business growth and changes to manufacturing processes over the  next several years will present a challenge to 
future energy -reduction efforts. Baxter is placing greater focus on implementing key energy -reduction projects to help meet the company’s 2015 
goal to decrease energy usage from operations by 30% indexed to r evenue, compared with 2005 . 
Baxter recognizes the benefits of cogeneration and uses this technology at four Baxter facilities. To more accurately track p erformance, Baxter 
has adjusted historical electricity purchases at locations that operate cogeneration  systems to include losses from generation and transmission 
normally associated with the utility. This helps the company accurately assess energy efficiency performance over time at tho se sites.  
See following page for more detail about Baxter's energy usag e and GHG emissions.  
  
 
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/environmental -performance/energy -usage -and-ghg-emissions.html  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/environmental -performance/energy.html  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All  Rights Reserved     17 
 
1 Baxter used the World Resources Institute and World Business Council for Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol (www .ghgprotocol.org) to calculate emissions data from 
fossil fuel use. The company used country electricity emission factors published  by the International Energy Agency and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) E -Grid U.S. 
regional electricity emission factors to calculate greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions related to electricity consumption.  
2 Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. v erified to a reasonable level Baxter’s 2011, 2012 and 2013 Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. Bureau Veritas North America, I nc. also verified 
Baxter’s methodology for determining 2011, 2012 and 2013 Scope 3 GHG emissions to a limited level.   
3 Baxter est imated the GHG emissions of its first -tier and sub -tier suppliers (purchased goods and services) for 2011, 2012 and 2013 using modeling performed on Baxter’s supply chain 
for 2012 by an independent firm and prorated to 2011 and 2013 based on global sales. These estimates are based on data from other companies in the healthcare sector and 
representative suppliers as well as publicly reported Baxter financial and environmental data available for 2012. From these total estimated quantities, GHG emissions for C ategories 3, 4 
and 6 were subtracted to arrive at the Category 1 amounts reported for 2011, 2012 and 2013.  
4 Estimated 2011, 2012 and 2013 GHG emissions based upon 2011, 2012 and 2013 capital expenditures reported in Baxter’s annual r eports and an estimate d emission factor per million 
dollars of capital expenditure based in part upon industry benchmarking.  
5 GHG emissions calculated for 2011, 2012 and 2013 based upon Baxter’s actual energy usage by energy type by year and GHG emiss ion factors for each energ y type per GaBi Life 
Cycle assessment software.  
6 Upstream Transportation and Distribution GHG emissions determined by 1) an estimate of GHG emissions associated with Baxter’s  supply chain (delivery of products and services to 
Baxter) based upon modeling b y an independent firm for 2012 and prorated to 2011 and 2013 based on global sales and 2) an independent third party calculat ing GHG emissions 
associated with the transportation of products to Baxter customers for 2012 and 2013 and prorated to 2011 based u pon global sales.  
7 Estimated emissions for wastewater treatment by municipalities, and off -site waste recycling and disposal based in part upon guidance provided by the Massachusetts Department of 
Environmental Protection (United States) and the U.S. EPA  Solid Waste Management and Greenhouse Gas Emissions guidelines.  
8 Baxter calculated emissions associated with employee use of commercial airlines, rental cars and hotel stays based in part on  data provided by company travel providers. Airline 
companies us ed by Baxter provided data regarding distances flown by Baxter employees in five geographic regions. Baxter used emission fac tors per UK Defra DECC GHG information 
to calculate associated GHG emissions. Information from travel providers regarding rental ca r distance traveled and number of hotel room stays along with emission factors based upon 
assumed vehicle fuel efficiency and average hotel room stay emissions per Conservation International were used to calculate r eported GHG emissions.   
  
 
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/environmental -performance/energy -usage -and-ghg-emissions.html  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/environmental -performance/energy.html  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All  Rights Reserved     18 
 
9 Baxter used the  Greenhouse Gas Protocol to estimate GHG emissions related to employee commuting. The company based these estimates on an asse ssment of employee population 
by region, estimated average distances traveled to work, and assumptions regarding mode of transport ation and the blend of fuel used (gasoline and diesel fuels).  
10 Emissions associated with upstream leased assets estimated at 3% of Baxter’s net emissions from operations.    
11 Baxter used the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting  Standard, Revised Edition to determine GHG emissions associated with using biomass fuel, 
principally wood and wood waste, as a boiler fuel at two Baxter locations. These emissions were calculated as 172,000, 182,00 0 and 187,000 metric tons CO2e in 2011, 2 012 and 2013, 
respectively.  
12 Includes the purchase of electricity generated from 100% certified renewable electricity (Austria, Brazil, Spain, Switzerland , United Kingdom, and United States), and the purchase of 
carbon credits from the EU Emissions Tradi ng Scheme and the Chicago Climate Exchange/InterContinental Exchange (United States) that were retired in 2011, 2012 and 2013 .  
13 Baxter used the Greenhouse Gas Protocol to estimate GHG emissions associated with reported fuel usage by company -managed sale s and distribution fleet vehicles, and other 
vehicles. The company estimated fuel usage for international sales and distribution vehicles based on regional sales informat ion.  
14 Refrigerant emissions represent total reported CFC, HCFC and HFC refrigerant losses by each Baxter location. Baxter calculated associated GHG emissions using average emission 
factors for each refrigerant family.  
15 Baxter engaged an independent third party to calculate GHG emissions associated with the transportation of products t o Baxter customers in 2012 and 2013. These GHG emissions are 
reported in Category 4, Upstream Transportation and Distribution. GHG emissions associated with Downstream Transportation and  Distribution are estimated at 5% of those emissions.   
16 Baxter cont inues to evaluate potential GHG emissions associated with this Scope 3 category.  
17 Baxter estimated the emissions associated with the use and final disposition of products based upon available product product ion quantities and global warming potential inf ormation 
available for certain types of products. Emissions for certain other products were estimated.  
18 Baxter estimated GHG emissions for this Scope 3 category based upon certain financial information presented in the company’s annual reports and Baxter ’s magnitude and annual 
change of net emissions from operations.  
19 Totals do not include GHG emissions from Baxter -owned wood -fired boilers. See footnote 11 above for detail . 
 
The following table describes the breakdown of electricity and steam consumption for Baxter manufacturing  facilities. The company considers 
these data in targeting new energy -saving technologies, determining where to focus energy balances and setting requirements in the Lean 
Energy Program. See Energy Conservation Initiatives below for examples of projects to  enhance efficiency in some of these areas.  
 
 
Baxter’s energy management program incorporates three main components: performance tracking and reporting; the company’s Lean  Energy 
Program; and energy balances .
Performance Tracking and Reporting  
Baxter’s corporate energy management group distributes a quarterly report to the company’s senior management, plant managers and globa l 
energy managers. The report focuses on Baxter’s Lean Energy Program, energy balance project implementation and water usage 
assess ments. It highlights progress toward the company’s internal target to reduce energy use per unit of production by 3% annually , and helps 
the company identify when performance is lagging so it can respond accordingly.  Energy Consumption by Activity, 2013  
 Electricity  Steam  
Boiler Makeup Water   11% 
Building Makeup   14% 
Chillers/HVAC  27%  
Combustion/Distribution Losses   24% 
Compressed Air  12%  
Lighting  8%  
Plastics Extrusion/Molding  7%  
Production/Sterilization  19% 29% 
Water Purification  8% 17% 
Other  19% 5% 
Total  100%  100%   
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/environmental -performance/energy.html  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     19 
Lean Energy Program  
In 2007, Baxter lau nched a Lean Energy Program for the company’s principal manufacturing facilities. The program includes four sets of Lean 
energy standards – Pre-requisite, Bronze, Silver and Gold. Each category defines 25 to 30 requirements a facility’s energy program must  meet 
to qualify for that level, with a focus on the energy efficiency of facility processes and systems. See the table below for p rogress since 2007. In 
2013, a total of 11 sites had achieved gold status, up from 8 in 2012. Baxter reviews and updates the program periodically and brings new sites 
(acquisitions and new plants) into the program.  
 
Lean Energy Program Performance (percent of program criteria implemented across all manufacturing facilities, at year -end)  
 2007  2008  2009  2010  2011  2012  2013*  
Pre-requisite  93% 98% 100%  100%  98% 99% 91% 
Bronze   85% 94% 98% 95% 98% 88% 
Silver    76% 89% 89% 91% 81% 
Gold     54% 60% 71% 66% 
* Performance declined in 2013 due to the addition of four sites to the program.  
 
In general, a site’s Lean Energy Program  level correlates closely with its energy efficiency performance.  
Energy Balances  
Energy balances are a key component for identifying energy conservation opportunities, and applying and sharing new technolog ies and best 
practices across the company.  
An ene rgy balance is an in -depth analysis of energy consumption at the site level. A team of experts assesses most of Baxter’s manufacturing 
sites every three to four years to understand how energy is consumed at each facility. The team spends approximately five  days at each 
location evaluating energy -consuming systems and reviewing electricity and fuel invoices to identify opportunities to improve efficiency and 
reduce GHG emissions and cost.  
To encourage the implementation of energy conservation projects, which  often involves purchasing or upgrading equipment, Baxter has 
reduced its minimum required internal rate of return for these initiatives by approximately 5% compared to other capital proj ects.  
In 2013, Baxter performed energy balances at the following 10 f acilities: Vienna, Austria; Alliston, Ontario, Canada; Lublin, Poland; Sabiñánigo, 
Spain; Neuchâtel, Switzerland; and in the United States at Opelika, Alabama; Mountain Home, Arkansas; Los Angeles, California ; Thousand 
Oaks, California; and Bloomington, In diana.  
As a result of energy balances completed in 2013, Baxter has identified 315 energy conservation projects worldwide for potent ial annual 
savings of $7.6 million.
 
   
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/environmental -performance/energy.html  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/environmental -performance/ghg -emissions -across -value -chain.html  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All Ri ghts Reserved     20 
Energy Conservatio n Initiatives  
Examples of projects implemented during the year include the following:  
• Australia  – Baxter’s facility in Toongabbie installed a trigeneration energy system that reduces site GHG emissions by almost 5,000 metri c 
tons carbon dioxide equivalent (CO 2e) per year. The new system uses two 1 megawatt (MW) natural gas -driven electric generators to 
provide power for the entire manufacturing plant. In addition, exhaust heat from the system creates steam and cooling to supp ort 
manufacturing operations.  
• Brazil – Baxter’s facility in São Paulo implemented two energy -conservation projects. The first recovers heat from the cooling cycle of 
product steam sterilization units saving an anticipated $80,000 per year. The second project modified the sanitization (cl eaning) procedure 
for the site’s distillation units that generate high -quality water, producing an estimated annual savings of $60,000.  
• Puerto Rico  – Baxter’s facility in Guayama connected the site’s cooling water towers that support manufacturing and oper ations, to improve 
the system’s overall efficiency. This will save $90,000 on electricity annually and decreased associated GHG emissions by 260  metric tons 
CO 2e. 
• Singapore  – Baxter’s Woodlands facility installed a new boiler to quickly generate steam upon  demand to support the facility’s existing 
boiler operation and product steam sterilization needs. This addition improves steam system efficiency, increases production throughout and 
reduces steam costs, saving $100,000 annually.  
 
Global Energy Management Activities  
Baxter senior management sponsors the company's global energy management activities, which are part of an integrated energy -conservation, 
cost-reduction and GHG emissions reduction program. The success of the program depends on the collaboration  of a number of functions, 
including Facilities Engineering Services; facility energy managers and site teams; Environment, Health and Safety; Corporate  Services and 
Administration; and Purchasing and Supplier Management.  
 
GHG Emissions across the Value Ch ain  
Global warming and resulting climate change are among the most pressing sustainability challenges facing the world today, pos ing risks for 
humans and natural ecosystems. Multinational companies can help address climate change by understanding their imp acts across the value 
chain and decreasing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. These are core elements of Baxter's sustainability efforts.  
The company began reporting its Scope 1, Scope 2 and certain Scope 3 GHG emissions in 1997 and contributed to the develop ment of the 
initial version of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, a collaboration of World Resources Institute and the World Business Council f or Sustainable 
Development.  
Baxter estimates its total GHG emissions footprint (Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3) at 5.1 mi llion metric tons carbon dioxide equivalent (CO 2e). 
The data reported below are presented in accordance with guidance provided by the GHG Protocol (Scope 1 and Scope 2) and the Corporate 
Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard.  
The company's Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions have a high level of certainty and have been verified for the past three years to  a reasonable 
assurance level by Bureau Veritas North America. Scope 3 categories are base d on various assumptions and estimates. Bureau Veritas North 
America verified for the past three years to a limited assurance level Baxter's methodology and emissions factors for calcula ting Scope 3 GHG 
emissions. Baxter continues to refine its understandi ng of the company's GHG emissions footprint and to implement emissions reduction 
strategies.
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/environmental -performance/ghg -emissions -across -value -chain. html 
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2012  2013  2013  
Upstream (S cope 3)                                                                         (Metric Tons CO 2e) (% Of Total)  
Purchased Goods and Services   932,000  967,000  19.0%  
Estimated GHG emissions associated with Baxter's purchase of goods and services. See Sustainable Procurement for information 
about Baxter's efforts to encourage suppliers to improve their environmental  performance, including reducing GHG emissions.  
Capital Goods  163,000  210,000  4.1%  
GHG emissions associated with the procurement of capital goods, such as manufacturing equipment and new or renovated faciliti es. 
Fuel and Energy -Related Activities  195,000  200,000  3.9%  
GHG emissions related to the production of fuels and energy purchased and consumed by Baxter.2 
Upstream Transportation and Distribution  564,000  587,000  11.6%  
GHG emissions related to the transportation of purchased goods from suppliers to Baxter and the distribution of Baxter products to 
customers. See Product Transport for more information about initiatives in this area.  
Wasted Generated in Operations  5,000  5,000  0.1%  
Baxter estimates GHG emissions associated with off -site wastewater treatment and waste management.  
Employee Business Travel  53,000  59,000  1.2%  
This category for 2013 includes commercial air travel (55,000 metric tons CO 2e), rental cars and public transportation (2,000 metric 
tons CO 2e), and hotel rooms and conference meeting facilities (2,000 metric tons CO 2e). Baxter bases these estimates principally on 
data supplied by the company's travel service vendors.  
Employee Commuting  83,000  92,000  1.8%  
This estimate is based on employee counts by region, approximate average commute distances and commuting mode.  
Upstream Leased Assets  0 0 0% 
This category includes emissions from the operation of assets leased by the company. Baxter continues to evaluate possible em issions 
associated with this category.  
Subtotal  1,995,000  2,120,000  41.7%  
 
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/environmental -performance/ghg -emissions -across -value -chain.html  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     22 
View more detail  about Baxter's energy usage and GHG emissions.  
External Recognition  
In May 2013, UK -based Environmental Investment Organization recognized Baxter with a 2013 Scope 3 Disclosure Leader Award. Baxter was 
listed second among all companies in the world for reporting 12 of 15 Scope 3 GHG emission categories.6  
1 The emissions r eported in this graph are presented in accordance with guidance provided by the GHG Protocol (Scope 1 and Scope 2) and the Co rporate Value Chain 
(Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard. Baxter does not currently report Scope 3 emissions in the followin g categories: Upstream Leased Assets, Processing of Sold 
Products and Downstream Leased Assets.  
2 See Category 3 of the GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard.   
3 Intermediate products are products that require further processing, transformation, or inclusion in another product prior to use. See Category 10 of the GHG Protocol 
Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Acc ounting and Reporting Standard.  
4 See Category 13 of the GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) A ccounting and Reporting Standard.   
5This category includes estimated GHG emissions from the operation of franchises not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2 emissions.  See Category 14 of the GHG Protocol 
Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting S tandard.   
6 This performance relates to Baxter's 2011 GHG emissions reported in 2012.  
  2012  2013  2013  
Baxter Operations (Scope 1 and 2)  
Facility/Vehicle Fuel Usage and 
Refrigerant Losses (Scope 1) 347,000  347,000  6.8%  
Vehicles operated at Baxter sites, for the company’s sales fleet and to distribute certain Baxter products. See GHG Emissions from 
Operations  for extensive detail.  
Purchased Energy (Scope 2)  455,000  468,000  9.2%  
Principally purchased electricity and a small quantity of purchased steam. See GHG Emissions from Operations  for ext ensive detail.  
Subtotal  802,000  815,000  16.0%  
Downstream (Scope 3)   
Downstream Transportation and 
Distribution  22,000  23,000  0.5%  
Emissions from transportation and distribution of products sold by Baxter between Baxter operations and the end consumer that are not 
paid for by Baxter, in vehicles and facilities not owned or controlled by Baxter.  
Processing of Sold Products     
This category includes emissions from the processing of sold intermediate products3 by third parties (e.g., manufacturers) subsequent 
to sale by Baxter. The company continues to evaluate possible emissions associated with this category.  
Use of Sold Products  1,773,000  2,067,000  40.7%  
Estimates of emissions associated with the use of Baxter products. The company is exploring strategies to mitigate some of these 
product - related emissions.  
End-of-Life Treatment of Sold Products  37,000  43,000  0.8%  
Emissions from the waste recycling, disposal and treatment of products sold by Baxter at end of life.  
Downstream Leased Assets     
Emissions not already counted in Scope 1 or Scope 2 from the operation of assets owned by Baxter and leased to other entities  in the 
reporting year4. Baxter continues to evaluate possible emissions associated with  this category.  
Franchise s5 9,000  9,000  0.2%  
Emissions from the operation of franchises not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2. A franchise is a business operating under a li cense to 
sell or distribute another company’s goods or services within a certain location.  
Investments  5,000  5,000  0.1%  
Emissions associated with Baxter’s investments in the reporting year, not already included in Scope 1 or Scope 2.  
Subtotal  1,846,000  2,147,000  42.3%  
Total  4,643,000  5,082,000  100.0%   
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/environmental -performance/ghg -emissions -from-operations.html  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     23 
GHG Emissions from Operations  
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions related to Baxter’s operations are due to facility 
energy use; company -operated sales, distribution and other business vehicles; and 
refrigerant losses.  
Baxter’s approach to managing and reducing GHG emissions from operations 
includes 18 program and reduction strategies. Program strategies describe broader 
aspects of the company’s approach and include develo ping and refining an overall 
GHG emissions reduction strategy, setting GHG emissions reduction goals, 
measuring and reporting progress, and others. These are complemented by specific 
tactics to reduce GHG emissions such as energy efficiency initiatives, fu el switching, 
cogeneration, onsite renewable energy systems, purchasing renewable power, and 
high-performance green buildings.  
Baxter’s goal is to reduce GHG emissions from operations 45% indexed to revenue by 
2015 compared with 2005. From 2005 to 2013, Ba xter decreased net GHG emissions 
from operations by 10% in absolute terms and 40% indexed to revenue. As the 
company continues to expand with new facilities and production operations, Baxter 
projects it will be challenging to meet its 2015 goal . 
Total net emissions from operations of 714,000 metric tons carbon dioxide equivalent 
(CO 2e) in 2013 includes a subtraction of 101,000 metric tons CO 2e for the following:  
• 76,000 metric tons CO 2e of certified renewable energy;  
• 16,000 metric tons CO 2e of Chicago Climat e Exchange carbon credits purchased 
from the Intercontinental  Exchange; and  
• 9,000 metric tons CO 2e of carbon credits purchased to meet emissions reduction 
requirements for one Baxter sit e subject to the European Union Emissions Trading 
Scheme.  
This total i s equivalent to 12% of total emissions from operations and represents approximately one -fifth of the company’s progress toward its 
2015 GHG emissions reduction goal.  The following table describes the sources of GHG emissions from Baxter operations during 2 013. 
 
GHG Emissions from Baxter Operations, 2013*  
 Metric Tons 
CO 2e Percent of Total  Primary GHG Emissions 
Reductions Focus  
Purchased Electricity and Steam  468,000  57.4%  Energy Conservation  
Purchased Fossil Fuels  267,000  32.8%  Energy conservation and 
switching to lower GHG or 
renewable fuels  
Baxter Operated Sales, Distribution and Other 
Business Vehicles  58,000  7.1%  Improved vehicle efficiency  
Refrigerant Related Emissions  22,000  2.7%  Switching to lower GHG 
potential refrigerants  
Subtotal  815,000  100.0%   
Purchase of Renewable Energy (Electricity) and 
Carbon Credits  101,000    
Net GHG Emissions  714,000    
* See the paragraph about biomass fuels below for detail about emissions from biomass -fired boilers at three Baxter locations. Since biomass is 
generated from a renewable energy resource, related emissions are not included in Scope 1 GHG emissions or the table above.  
View more detail  about Baxter's energy usage and GHG emissions.  
 
 
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/environmental -performance/ghg -emissions -from-operations.html  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     24 
In 2013, Baxter used biomass fuels to generate energy in boilers at two Baxter locations: Marion, North Carolina, United Stat es (sawdust and 
scrap wood chips from lumber operations  and the hardwood flooring and furniture industries) and Alathur, India (coconut shells, rice husks and 
sugarcane remnants). Additionally, Baxter’s facility in Waluj, India, purchases steam from a biomass -fueled boiler (residual biomass from 
sugarcane and cotton) owned and operated by a third party. During the year, emissions from the Baxter operated biomass boilers equaled 
187,000 metric tons CO 2e, and 8,000 metric tons CO 2e from the third party -operated biomass boiler. Following the Greenhouse Gas Protoco l1, 
the company reports CO 2 emissions from biologically sequestrated carbon separately from its total emissions from operations (Scope 1 and 2) 
and does not include these emissions in progress toward its 2015 GHG emissions reduction goal. See  Baxter's Energy Usage and Greenhouse 
Gas Emissions  for more detail.  
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reductions  
Energy usage accounts fo r 97% of Baxter's GHG emissions from operations, so the company focuses its emissions reduction efforts in this 
area. In 2013, Baxter facilities completed 120 energy conservation projects that reduced annual GHG emissions by 8,600 metric  tons CO 2e. 
For mor e detail, see Energy .  
In 2013, Baxter’s Toongabbie, Australia, facility began use of a new trigeneration energy system, which produces heating  and cooling, 
generates electricity, and reduces site greenhouse emissions by almost 5,000 metric tons per year. The company also uses coge neration at its 
Lessines, Belgium; Castlebar, Ireland; and Sabiñánigo, Spain, manufacturing sites.  
Renewable Energy  
In 2007, Baxter committed to increasing facility usage of renewable energy to 20% of total energy use by 2015. In 2013, 22% of  the company’s 
energy use for operations was from renewable sources. Of this amount, 9% was biomass fuel for boilers at three compa ny locations and 13% 
was from the renewable energy component of purchased electricity. A small amount was from onsite geothermal systems and onsit e solar 
photovoltaic (PV) and solar hot water systems.  
During 2013, Baxter purchased 209,100 megawatt hours (M Wh) of electricity generated from 100% certified renewable power. The company 
was recognized as the 25th largest corporate purchaser of renewable energy in the United States in 2013.2 
Beginning in 2012, all electricity purchased by Baxter in Illinois, Unit ed States, was 100% wind -generated, Green -e certified renewable energy. 
This equaled 83,600 MWh in 2013.  
The following table summarizes energy sources used by utilities to generate electricity for Baxter globally in 2007 and 2013.  During that period, 
renew able energy sources increased from 22.9% to 35.7% of the total.  
Energy Sources that Generated Electricity Used by Baxter*  
Non-renewable Energy Sources  2007  2013  
Coal 31.2%  25.6%  
Natural Gas  22.6%  21.1%  
Nuclear  14.1%  10.4%  
Oil 8.7%  6.6%  
Waste  0.5%  0.6%  
Subtotal  77.1%  64.3%  
Renewable Energy Sources    
Biomass  1.6%  3.0%  
Geothermal  0.5%  0.5%  
Hydroelectric  16.4%  19.1%  
Solar  0.0%  0.7%  
Wind  4.4%  12.4%  
Subtotal  22.9%  35.7%  
Total  100%  100%  
*Based upon the most recent country data av ailable from the International Energy Agency (IEA) and the additional renewable energy purchased 
by Baxter. Unlike Baxter’s 2015 renewable energy goal, this table does not take into account onsite renewable energy systems.   
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/environmental -performance/ghg -emissions -from-operations.html  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/environmental -performance/waste.html  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All Rig hts Reserved     25 
 
Baxter also has recently implemented several on -site renewable energy projects. The capacity of the company’s total on -site solar PV and solar 
hot water systems at year -end 2013 was approximately 1.0 MW. Examples include the following:  
• 2013 – Baxter installed a 836 kWp3 solar PV system (the company’s largest) at its Marsa, Malta, facility.  
• 2012 – Baxter installed solar hot water and PV systems at its Rieti, Italy, facility.  
• 2011 – Baxter installed solar hot water or PV systems at its Orth, Austria; Vienna, Austria; São Pau lo, Brazil and Cuernavaca, Mexico, 
facilities.  
• 2010 -2011  – Baxter installed geothermal systems at its locations in Orth, Austria, and Marsa, Malta. (Baxter previously had installed a 
geothermal system at its office in Munich, Germany.)  
• 2010 – Baxter instal led solar PV systems at its Los Angeles, California, United States, and Aibonito, Puerto Rico, facilities.  
As world energy prices rise and carbon constraints intensify, Baxter will continue to adopt renewable energy and alternative lower -carbon fuels, 
wher e feasible.  
Carbon Neutrality  
Since 2007, Baxter has maintained carbon neutrality at its headquarters in Deerfield, Illinois, United States, and its manufa cturing facility in 
Cartago, Costa Rica, through electricity generated from certified renewable energ y, carbon credits, and carbon offsets. In both cases, the 
company offsets facility -related emissions from purchased electricity as well as fuel combusted on site.  
Green Buildings  
High-performance green buildings provide many benefits that enhance employee productivity and reduce operating expense. Baxter has 
incorporated green building design principles and has achieved or is working toward U.S. Green Building Council Leadership in  Energy and 
Environmental Design (LEED) certification at several sites (see  EHS Management Systems and Certifications ). 
Carbon Markets  
Baxter has used a market -based approach (carbon cap -and-trade) to gain experien ce in the voluntary U.S. emissions trading market, to offset 
some of its GHG emissions, and to meet obligations for one facility that is subject to the European Union Emissions Trading S cheme.  
1 The Greenhouse Gas Protocol,  Corporate  Accounting  and Reporting  Standards  (Corporate  Standard) . 
2 U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Green Power Partnership Fortune 500 Partners List, January 8, 2014.  
3 Kilowatt -peak (kWp) refers to the maxi mum electricity generation capacity of the system.  
Waste  
Baxter has worked to minimize waste since establishing its first waste reduction goals in 1996. Initial efforts focused on de creasing potential 
risk and liability. Since the early 2000s, potential financial gains and process efficiency also have motivated the company’s efforts in this area.  
Baxter tracks and analyzes waste data from each major facility to assess progress toward waste -reduction goals and identify opportunities to 
improve the efficien cy of processes that generate waste. The company’s environmental, health and safety (EHS) information management 
system captures waste performance data monthly, allowing quick reaction when issues arise. Facilities also are implementing r obust waste 
measur ement at the point of generation, to rapidly identify significant sources. These and other activities reduce expenses related  to raw 
materials, waste handling and disposal. Waste minimization also decreases environmental impacts associated with raw materia ls extraction 
and refining.  
Baxter sites generate different types of waste, so the company’s  total waste goals  combine non -hazardous and regulated waste t o encourage 
each site to focus on the type most relevant to its operations. Baxter has committed to reduce waste generation by 30% indexe d to revenue by 
2015, compared to 2005. The company identifies leading opportunities to decrease waste based on the hig hest volume waste streams, facilities 
that produce the most waste, sites with particularly strong potential to improve, and other factors.   
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/environmental -performance/waste.html  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     26 
Total Waste Performance  
During 2013, Baxter's operations generated 65,330 metric tons of total waste, up 10% 
from 2005 in absolute terms and a 26% decrease indexed to revenue.  
In absolute terms, total waste increased by 1% during 2013 compared with 2012. 
Baxter attributes this to the following:  
• Plasma collection continues to increase at the company’s BioLife Centers. Although 
the centers have implemented innovative projects to reduce waste generated per 
plasm a donation, these efforts have not offset the overall increase due to business 
growth.  
• Some of Baxter’s larger manufacturing facilities in North America and other countries 
made changes to their manufacturing processes and product platforms. These types 
of changes typically increase waste generation temporarily during testing, 
implementation and optimization.  
• Baxter’s Los Angeles, California, United States, facility sent higher -than-normal 
quantities of alcohol waste off -site for disposal or recycling due t o operational 
limitations associated with the facility’s alcohol recovery still.  
Non-hazardous Waste Performance  
During 2013, Baxter's operations generated 59,000 metric tons of non -hazardous 
waste, 7% more than in 2005 in absolute terms and a 28% decrease  indexed to 
revenue.  
Plastic scrap represents Baxter’s largest waste stream, comprising roughly one -third of 
the company’s non -hazardous waste. Baxter’s Corporate Environmental Engineering 
group continues working with 20 sites to facilitate the identifica tion of improvement 
opportunities through a systematic approach using Lean and Six Sigma tools. Eight 
sites participating in the plastic scrap reduction program reduced plastic waste by 444 
metric tons in 2013. See  Case Study: Baxter Plastic Waste Reduction Program  for 
more detail.  
Significant waste reduction efforts during the year, both related to plastic and other 
materials, included the following:  
• Australia  - The Toongabbie manufacturing facility worked on several initiatives to 
reduce non -hazardous waste. The site implemented projects that reduced plastic 
scrap by 28% or nearly 60 metric tons compared with 2012. The location also 
improve d segregation of its non -hazardous materials for recycling. This increased 
awareness of waste generation within the facility, and contributed to an additional 
reduction of nearly 40 metric tons compared to 2012. Overall, the site reduced total 
waste genera tion by 22% compared with 2012.  
• United Kingdom  – The Northampton distribution facility became a zero -waste -to-
landfill site in October 2012. Building on this accomplishment, during 2013 the facility 
further improved waste sorting and increased employee awa reness of waste 
generation at the site. As a result, the location reduced waste generation by 245 
metric tons compared with the prior year, and diverted 43 metric tons of waste from 
landfill.  
In 2013, Baxter also focused on reducing packaging material sent  to customers. Sites in 
Cali, Colombia; Manesar and Waluj, India; Grosotto, Italy; Marsa, Malta; and Lublin, 
Poland, implemented initiatives to decrease the use of packaging materials such as 
cardboard and plastic, saving about 200 metric tons. See  Packaging  for details.  
Regulated Waste Performance1 
Baxter generated 6,330 metric tons of regulated waste in 2013, 51% more  than in 2005 
in absolute terms and a 1% increase indexed to revenue. This represented about 10% of the total waste Baxter generated during  the year. 
Regulated waste increased by 15% on an absolute basis compared to 2012, principally due to increased activ ity in Baxter -operated plasma 
collection centers and operational limitations associated with an alcohol recovery still at the company’s facility in Los Ang eles, California, United 
States. The rise in demand for plasma units donated at Baxter collection cen ters represents an ongoing waste generation challenge. To 
address this issue, the centers are investigating ways to reduce regulated waste produced as part of the plasma donation proc ess. 
 
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/environmental -performance/waste.html  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     27 
 
The Baxter site in Bielefeld, Germany, implemented a project to better manage 
solvents used in the manufacturing process. As an alternative to incineration, the 
facility is recycling used solvents for other applications. This project contributed 
to a decrease in regulated waste at the site of approximately 35 metric to ns 
compared with 2012.  
Recycling  
Baxter has steadily increased its recycling rate since 2007. Of the 59,000 metric 
tons of non -hazardous waste generated in 2013, Baxter recycled approximately 
41,000 metric tons, or 70%. Baxter also recycled 2,340 metric to ns of regulated 
waste in 2013, for an overall recycling rate of 66%.2 
Recycling activities at Baxter generated nearly $7.2 million in revenue in 2013. 
Although some recycled waste streams do not generate revenue, in those cases 
recycling typically still co sts less than disposal. Recycling revenue in 2013 
increased by 10% compared with 2012 due to a slight increase in prices paid for 
some recycled plastic materials.  
Additional Waste Streams  
To more closely reflect production efficiency, Baxter excludes certa in non -
routine, non production -related waste streams from its total waste performance 
data and progress against its 2015 waste goal. The company reports these 
waste streams in the following table, which allows for more consistent evaluation 
of facility per formance and trends.  
Construction and demolition debris waste increased in 2013 compared to 2012 
primarily due to several facility expansion projects during the year. The data also 
reflect improvements in the tracking and reporting of these waste streams.  
 
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/environmental -performance/waste.html  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/environmental -performance/water -and-wastewater.html  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     28 
 
 
1 Baxter reports “regulated waste” rather than “hazardous waste.” This term includes a broader array of materials that would ot herwise be classified as 
non-hazardous in some countries, which helps Baxter harmonize its waste reporting across locations. In addition to wastes typically considered 
hazardous (such as toxics and corrosives), the company also includes oils, biohazardous or infectious materials, batteries, f luorescent lamps, asbestos 
and other materials that may not be defined  as hazardous waste by national legislation at the point of origin.  
2 Incineration with energy recovery is considered recycling.  
Water and Wastewater  
Water issues continue to grow in visibility and importance worldwide, and many consider access to clean water to be a basic human right. 
Although these concerns are global, addressing water issues requires action at a local or regional level. Due to the location -specific nature of 
water issues, companies first must understand water risks associated with indi vidual operations before they can take appropriate and 
meaningful action.  
Water is integral to many of Baxter’s products and manufacturing processes, so water conservation and reuse are key focus are as for the 
company. Baxter works to better understand the  impacts of its water use across the value chain, and implements conservation and efficiency 
projects at its manufacturing facilities to improve performance.  
Baxter is committed to reducing water consumption by 35% indexed to revenue by 2015, compared with  2005. The company also has 
committed to implement two projects by 2015 to help protect vulnerable watersheds and provide communities with enhanced acces s to clean 
water.  
Water consumption, energy usage and greenhouse gas emissions are interrelated, includ ing within Baxter’s manufacturing operations. As 
water quality decreases, Baxter will need to use additional energy and water for the production of highly purified water used  in manufacturing.  
Water Usage  
Baxter closely manages how it obtains, uses, treats , re-circulates and discharges water. In 2013, the company obtained approximately 40% of 
its water from on -site wells and the remainder from municipal water distribution systems. During 2013, Baxter used approximately 14.8 million 
cubic meters1 of water, r oughly equivalent to filling 16 Olympic -sized swimming pools every day. This equaled 1% less water than in 2005 in 
absolute terms and 34% less indexed to revenue. Baxter used about 5% more water in 2013 than in 2012, largely due to producti on growth in 
the Asia Pacific region, along with changes in manufacturing practices and product development activities at numerous Baxter faci lities globally. 
Although the company is increasing focus on water and energy reduction projects to help meet its 2015 goal, Baxte r anticipates that continued 
business growth and manufacturing process changes during the next several years will present a challenge to future water -reduction efforts.  
 Non-Production Waste Streams Not Included in Total Waste Performance (metric tons)  
 2011 2012  2013  
 Non-
Hazardous  Regulated  Total  Non-
Hazardous  Regulated  Total  Non-
Hazardous  Regulated  Total  
Construction 
and 
Demolition 
Debris  14,000  0 14,000  1,200  0 1,200  2,500  0 2,500  
Remediation 
Waste  0 3,810  3,810  0 140 140 0 2,170  2,170  
Wastewater 
Treatment 
Sludge  1,900  100 2,000  2,300  100 2,400  2,200  240 2,440  
Total  15,900  3,910  19,810  3,500  240 3,740  4,700  2,410  7,110   
http://sustainabilit y.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/environmental -performance/water -and-wastewater.html  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     29 
Baxter uses water in three main ways:  
• Process -related operations include cooling towe rs, chillers, steam boilers, sterilizers 
and water purification (80% of total);  
• Purified water in the company’s solution products (15% of total); and  
• Other uses such as in bathrooms, cafeterias and landscaping (5% of total).  
Water Conservation  
Facilities w ith water -intensive operations develop site -specific water efficiency initiatives 
and metrics. Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) and Facilities Engineering Services 
personnel review performance to identify best practices for application at other 
locatio ns. 
Baxter considers several factors to identify water usage reduction opportunities and 
possible water conservation projects at sites, including total water used, water usage 
efficiency, and water cost and availability. Due to the strong link between energy usage 
and water processing, optimizing water systems remains a key focus of the 
company’s  facility energy assessments . Additionally, Baxter integrates Lean 
manufacturing principles and tools such as value stream mapping2 with water 
management to help facilities identify areas for additional conservation.  
During 2013, Baxter implemented water recovery and reuse projects at  several 
facilities:  
• China  - Product sterilization processes are often water - and energy -intensive. Baxter’s Tianjin facility implemented a system to recover 
heated water from the sterilization process and reuse it in the site’s boilers. This project decre ased water consumption by 6,000 m3 on an 
annualized basis while also saving energy.  
• Ireland  - Baxter’s facility in Castlebar implemented several water conservation projects such as improving use of water meters in water -
intensive operations, optimizing wat er used during sanitization processes, and reducing water used for toilets. These efforts reduced water 
consumption by approximately 18,500 m3 annually.  
• Italy - Baxter’s facility in Grosotto completed projects to reuse water from the water purification pro cess and to optimize sterilization activities 
for one of its main product lines. These initiatives reduced water consumption by 22,500 m3 annually.  
• United States  - Baxter’s manufacturing facility in Round Lake, Illinois, developed software to monitor water  usage and installed alarms to 
alert facility personnel if valves remain open longer than intended. The facility also completed projects to recover water fr om utility and 
manufacturing processes for reuse in boilers and cooling towers. Combined, these proj ects reduced water usage by 7,600 m3 annually.  
Water -Stressed Locations  
Water issues vary significantly by location. Baxter used the World Business Council for 
Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Global Water Tool in 2012 to evaluate the 
availability of renew able water resources at Baxter’s 51 largest water -consuming 
locations, which represent more than 96% of the company’s total water use. Twelve of 
those sites are located in water -scarce areas, 11 in water -stressed areas and 28 in 
water -sufficient areas (see  second note on graph below).  
Water usage in water -scarce and water -stressed areas increased approximately 7% in 
absolute terms and saw virtually no change when indexed to production in 2013 
compared with 2012. Water consumption increased at these location s primarily due to 
growth in production to meet local market demands and elevated water use in certain 
processes that support manufacturing.  
Baxter has established partnerships with local non -governmental organizations (NGOs) 
to implement projects to help protect vulnerable watersheds and provide communities 
with enhanced access to clean water and sanitation.  
Throughout 2013, Baxter continued working with Philippine Center for Water and 
Sanitation (PCWS) to improve the water, sanitation and hygiene conditions for the 
nearly 1,500 inhabitants of Sitio Silangan, a community within walking dis tance of the 
company's manufacturing facility in Canlubang, Philippines, which is located in a water -
scarce region. PCWS builds the capabilities of communities, households, NGOs and 
other groups to address water, sanitation and hygiene challenges throughou t the country. 
 
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/environmental -performance/water -and-wastewater.html  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Res erved     30 
 
Efforts in 2013 focused on strengthening the skills and knowledge that local residents need to manage the community’s water s upply and 
sanitation systems sustainably. Through the end of 2013, community residents, with PCWS, have built four  biogas digester septic tanks, two 
iron removal filters, two rainwater harvesting tanks, and 50 biosand filters, with plans to construct five more rainwater har vesting tanks, five 
biogas digesters, 10 biosand filters, and five iron removal filters in 2014.  The local community also is evaluating the safe capture of methane 
gas from the biogas digesters for use as cooking fuel.  
In 2013, Baxter also entered into a partnership with Sarar Transformación SC to implement a community water project near the company’ s 
facility in Cuernavaca, Mexico. The project's goals are to improve water and sanitary conditions at local schools in the surr ounding water -
stressed area of Tepoztlán, Mexico; to educate the community on sustainable water use; and to ensure ongoing mainte nance of the installed 
improvements. Nearly 1,000 residents of the Tepoztlán area are expected to benefit from this project. A project kickoff meeti ng was held in 
2013 to plan for the implementation of the project in 2014.  
Wastewater  
Wastewater discharged from Baxter's production operations represents one of the company's most significant  environmental compliance  risks. 
In 2013, all of Baxter’s self-reported environmental incidents were exceedances of permitted wastewater discharge limits, and 88% of those 
were from one European manufacturing location. Exceedances at this location were related to biological oxygen demand (BOD), c hemical 
oxygen de mand (COD), pH, chloride, sulphate, and temperature, though no harm to the environment resulted from these exceedances. Both 
pH and temperature are monitored continuously, and each exceedance, no matter how minor, constitutes a self -reported incident.  
To address these items, Baxter applied internal and external legal and engineering resources to improve compliance at this facili ty. The site 
worked with local regulatory agencies, external wastewater experts, and the private third -party operator of the munici pal wastewater treatment 
plant to develop structural improvements to expand the treatment capacity of the Baxter -dedicated wastewater pre -treatment system. At the 
same time, Baxter worked continuously to mitigate the compliance risk by improving internal o perational practices and engaging the entire 
facility staff and management. This included changing how the facility manages routine wastewater discharges to reduce the lo ading on the 
pretreatment system, and diverting large volumes of cleaning solution fro m the wastewater treatment plant to an authorized offsite location. In 
early 2014, the company successfully completed wastewater pretreatment infrastructure upgrades. These improvements address Ba xter’s 
current and expected future manufacturing needs.  
To address existing wastewater compliance issues globally and to anticipate potential future ones, Baxter has adopted a more aggr essive 
approach to wastewater compliance and changed how it evaluates and mitigates wastewater risk. Learning from recent wastewate r compliance 
issues, the company has implemented a systematic wastewater risk management program that proactively identifies emerging issu es. This 
initiative involves a holistic review of major manufacturing locations that includes the following:  
• Evaluate how facility change management processes are used to assess possible impacts to wastewater generation and compliance;  
• Review wastewater compliance history to identify possible trends or areas of concern;  
• Verify the effectiveness of procedures used to monit or compliance with wastewater permit conditions and methods used to investigate and 
remedy causes of non -compliant wastewater discharges;  
• Use five -year production forecasts to compare wastewater treatment capacity and capabilities with anticipated producti on changes; and  
• Gauge employee awareness of wastewater operations and roles in ensuring compliance . 
 
In addition to this program, the EHS Audit group has performed targeted wastewater assessments since 2011. These reinforce th e importance 
of understanding the effects of wastewater discharges on compliance, and on proper management of wastewater treatment.  
Baxter -Operated Wastewater Treatment Systems  
Twelve of Baxter’s manufacturing operations treat wastewater on -site and either discharge to a waterway or op erate as zero -discharge 
facilities. These facilities typically do not have access to regional or municipal wastewater -treatment systems. For example, Baxter’s facilities in 
Alathur and Waluj, India, reuse all treated wastewater on -site for landscaping and irrigation or, after further treatment by reverse osmosis, for 
cooling towers. In 2013, these 12 facilities treated more than 4.7 million cubic meters of wastewater, nearly 32% of Baxter's  total water 
consumption.  
The combined treated effluent from the 10 facilities that discharge to a waterway have average concentration levels of wastew ater pollutants 
(see table) that are generally regarded as indicators of adequately treated wastewa ter and are well below typical regulatory discharge limits. 
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/environmental -performance/water -and-wastewater.html  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International In c. All Rights Reserved     31 
 
Wastewater Pollutants*  
  2005  2009  2010  2011  2012  2013  Typical Acceptable 
Discharge Level (mg/L)  
BOD 5** Metric Tons  26 31 41 24 36 33  
 mg/L  6 8 10 5 8 7 20 
COD**  Metric Tons  111 102 106 98 120 99  
 mg/L  26 27 27 22 28 21 60 
TSS**  Metric Tons  45 31 34 49 34 38  
 mg/L  11 8 9 11 8 8 20 
Total Direct 
Discharge  Cubic 
Meters  4,340,000  3,777,000  3,948,000  4,404,000  4,348,000  4,656,000   
 
* Estimated total water pollutant levels for treated wastewater discharged directly into waterways. Data do not include two facilities that 
operate zero -discharge systems in accordance with local regulatory requirements.  
** When actual performance data were not available, estimates are based on performance a t similar facilities or on other measured 
performance indicators.  
Wastewater and Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients  
 
Baxter takes seriously concerns about active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) entering the public water supply. The company 
primarily produces solutions whose principal ingredients include water, salts and simple sugars. However, Baxter purchases and uses 
some solution therapies and products for injection that include APIs.  
The company properly manages the APIs that it uses to help ensur e they are not released into the environment during manufacturing. 
Baxter has developed proprietary processes to remove, destroy or deactivate some compounds though not required to do so by la w. All 
other compounds that cannot be managed this way or throug h traditional wastewater systems are destroyed by incineration or other 
environmentally responsible means.  
Complementing these global processes, each Baxter facility determines the most effective and environmentally responsible meth od of 
protecting the pub lic water supply and public health in accordance with company policies and local regulations. For example, Baxter’s 
major research and development facility in Round Lake, Illinois, United States, has an ongoing program launched in 1989 to ev aluate 
its solu tion products, including those containing APIs, for their removal in wastewater treatment systems. The company shares this 
information with Baxter facilities around the world.  
1 One cubic meter equals 1,000 liters or 264 gallons.   
2  .Water value stream mapping is an interactive, Lean manufacturing tool that helps facilities better understand the quantity an d quality of water used in 
their processes and identify opportunities for reduction or reuse.   
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/environmental -financial -statement.html  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     32 
 
2013 Environmental Financial Statement  
Baxter's Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) function pioneered its Environmental Financial Statement (EFS) in 1994 (coverin g 1993 data). 
The EFS demonstrates the value of the company’s proactiv e global environmental management program to EHS team members, senior 
leadership and other stakeholders. The company has typically demonstrated a return of approximately three dollars per year fo r every dollar 
invested.  
Environmental income, savings and co st avoidance totaled $8.8 million for initiatives completed in 2013, equivalent to 35% of the cost of 
Baxter's basic global environmental program. This amount decreased from a total of $20.2 million in 2012.  
Factors that influenced performance in 2013 incl uded the following:  
• Non-hazardous waste savings and cost avoidance:  Non-hazardous waste volume was flat from 2012 to 2013, after decreasing 13% in 
absolute terms between 2011 and 2012. As a result, related savings and cost avoidance were $7.8 million lower  in 2013 than in 2012.  
• Regulated waste savings and cost avoidance:  In 2013, regulated waste increased by 15% in absolute terms compared to 2012, 
principally due to growth in Baxter -operated plasma collection centers and limitations with an alcohol recovery  still at the company’s Los 
Angeles, California, United States, site that increased off -site recycling of waste. Additionally, the Los Angeles facility increased the amount 
of regulated plasma and ethanol production byproducts sent to an anaerobic digester  for conversion into electricity. The cost of regulated 
materials due to higher waste generation increased from $1.8 million in 2012 to $4.9 million in 2013.  
• Water conservation savings and cost avoidance:  Water consumption increased 5% in absolute terms in  2013 compared with 2012 due to 
growth in the Asia Pacific region along with changes in manufacturing practices and product development activities at numerou s Baxter 
facilities globally. The increase in water consumption reduced water savings and cost avoi dance by $0.4 million in 2013 compared with 2012.  
Total estimated environmental income, savings and cost avoidance realized in 2013 from environmental initiatives implemented since 2006 
totaled $37.9 million.  
See following page  for Baxter's 2013 Environmental Financial Statement. 
http://sustainability.baxter.com/documents/baxter -2013 -environmental -financial -statement.pdf  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Re served     33 
 
 
http://sustainability.baxter.com/documents/baxter -2013 -environmental -financial -statement.pdf  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     34 
 
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/health -and-safety/index.html  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety /health -and-safety/performance.html  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     35 
Health and Safety  
Complementing its mission to save and sustain the lives of patients worldwide, Baxter works to ensure 
the health, safety and well -being of its employees. At Baxte r, all employees are accountable for safety.  
The company encourages employee health and wellness in and out of the workplace, such as by 
providing free influenza immunizations, subsidizing access to exercise facilities on or near some 
Baxter locations, and  promoting balanced nutrition. The company also is working toward a smoke -free 
environment at all locations.  
Baxter conducts business worldwide, with more than half of its employees working outside the United 
States. The company’s operations consist of the  following work environments:  
• Manufacturing;  
• Administrative and sales offices;  
• Plasma -donor centers;  
• Research and development;  
• Renal -therapy centers;  
• Pharmacy compounding centers; and  
• Warehousing and distribution.  
Recent trends in Baxter’s operations inclu de increasing process automation, facility expansions, and a 
growing remote workforce. These present distinct workplace hazards and safety improvement 
opportunities.  
See a summary of performance  in this area during 2013, descriptions of how Baxter manages  safety and health and wellness , and details 
about several programs and initiatives in each area.  
2013 Safety Performance  
In 2013, Baxter achieved a 2% decrease in recordable case rate, a 38% decrease in cases with days lost rate and a 46% decreas e in days lost 
rate, compared to the prior year. The fo llowing table summarizes the company’s health and safet y performance from 2009 -2013.  It also 
includes Baxter’s 2013 and 2014 targets in this area, which help keep the company on a course of continual progress toward it s 2015 priority to 
Promote a Safe and Healthy Workplace.  
Indicator  2009  2010  2011  2012  2013  2013 Target  2014 Target3 
Recordable Case 
Rate1,2 1.07 1.00 0.95 0.90 0.88 0.87 0.87 
Cases with Days 
Lost Rate 1,2 0.15 0.17 0.158  0.154  0.096  0.148  0.102  
Days Lost Rate 1,2 4.16 4.56 5.47 4.35 2.37 4.20 2.43 
Restricted Days 
Rate 1,2 12.68  14.59  13.86  14.38  12.66  n/a n/a 
Days Away (Lost), 
Restricted or 
Transferred Rate 
(DART) 1,2 16.84  19.15  19.33  18.73  15.03  n/a n/a 
Employee/Contractor 
Serious Incidents 
(total number)4 12/1 5/0 12/1 5/0 5/3 n/a n/a 
Employee/Contractor 
Fatalities (total 
number)  0/0 0/0 1/0 0/0 0/0 n/a n/a 
 
 
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/h ealth -and-safety/performance.html  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1All rates based on 100 full -time employees working one year, which equals 200,000 work hours.  For tracking purposes, 
Baxter’s position is to follow U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration recordkeeping requirements worldwide. 
Thus, in cases where an injury occurs and conflicting medical opinions arise as to the number of days away and/o r restricted 
days that should be recorded, Baxter records on the basis of the most authoritative physician’s opinion. Rates exclude 
acquisitions until January 1, following 18 months with Baxter.   
2 Recordable cases  – Work -related injuries or illnesses requiring medical attention beyond first -aid, including cases with 
days lost.   
Cases with days lost  – Work -related injuries or illnesses that cause an employee to lose at least one full day after the date 
of the incident.  Days lost  – The number of days los t (including weekends and holidays) recommended by the most 
authoritative physician's opinion due to work -related injuries or illnesses. Baxter does not count the date of injury and date of 
return to full duty as lost days.   
Restricted days  – The number of  days recommended by the most authoritative physician's opinion that an employee or 
supervised contractor is unable to work full duty (including weekends and holidays) due to a work -related injury or illness. 
Baxter does not count the date of injury and da te of return to full duty as restricted days.   
DART  – The combined number of days lost, restricted days and days transferred to another job function (including 
weekends and holidays) due to a work -related injury or illness severe enough to prevent working full duty. Baxter does not 
count the date of injury and date of return to full duty in the DART calculation.   
3 Following the closure and verification of 2013 data, Baxter added safety performance data from several new acquisitions 
and adjusted its baselin e. The company then set 2014 goals using the revised baseline to improve in each indicator by 3%. 
As a result of the adjusted baseline, some of the goals for 2014 target a higher rate than actual 2013 performance.   
4 Serious workplace incidents are work -related incidents that result in an employee or contractor being hospitalized 
overnight, sustaining an amputation or dying. This designation also includes any employee chemical or radiation exposure 
requiring government notification. This data includes new s ites and acquisitions.  
 
In 2013, Baxter continued to improve its safety performance for the three main indicators tracked (recordable cases, cases wi th days lost and 
days lost). Regional performance summaries include the following:  
• Asia Pacific  – Recordab le case rate performance improved by 66% due to sharpened focus on noise control exposures, ergonomics and 
increased EHS communications throughout the region. The cases with days lost rate improved by 25%. The days lost rate worsene d by 28% 
due to two lost  time injuries at the beginning of the year. The region focused on integrating the Medical Product Organization’s global 
Enterprise Management System, a series of integrated business excellence and lean management principles focused on improving business 
results, and emphasized safety as a top priority along with quality and production.  
• Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA)  – Within EMEA the focus is on reducing overall recordable cases, not specifically lost time c ases, 
and the region continued its gains in safety performance and improved its recordable case rate by 13% and days lost rate by 2 4%. 
Contributing factors included ongoing leadership by senior and facility management, frequent communications focused on sa fety and quality, 
the roll -out of the Enterprise Management System to all plants in the region, and continual improvements in injury and illness case 
management programs. Due to the addition of two newly constructed facilities with immature case management  programs, the cases wit h 
days lost rate worsened by 9%.
 
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/health -and-safety/performance.h tml 
http://sustainability.baxter.com/documents/table_industry_rates.pdf  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     37 
 
• Latin America and Puerto Rico  – During the year, the region improved its recordable case rate by 49%, its cases with days lost rate by 
64%, and its days lost rate by 90%. The region attributes these  improvements to the application of Enterprise Management System tools to 
the EHS management system . 
• North America  – The recordable case rate worsened by 24% in the region due to significant management transition and high production 
demands at a large North American manufacturing facility, as well as an increase in sharps -related injuries at the region’s BioLife Centers. 
These centers exper ienced a 12% increase in donations and significant growth in operations and employees during the year. However, 
injury severity metrics followed a positive trend across the region: the cases with days lost rate improved by 40% and the da ys lost rate 
improv ed by 44%.  
Baxter’s overall safety performance since 2005 has improved significantly:  
• 42% reduction in recordable case rate  
• 68% decrease in cases with days lost rate  
• 67% reduction in days lost rate  
In a comparison of 14 healthcare companies1, Baxter’s performance ranked second in cases with days lost rate in 2012, the most recent year 
industry benchmarking data were available. Although this placement puts Baxter on course to achieve its  2015 safety -related goal , maintaining 
and increasing this ranking will require continuous enhancements to the company’s safety systems and strategies.  
See below  for a comparison  of Baxter’s performance to average occupational injury and illness rates for severa l related U.S. -based industries.   
 
Analysis of Injuries and Serious Incidents  
Baxter’s safety function regularly evaluates the main sources of work -
related injuries at the company to identify trends and address 
opportunities for improvement. The following chart shows the sources of 
recordable injuries and serious incidents at Baxter in 2013. The two major 
sources of injuries and illnesses for the past sev en years (when the 
company began analyzing these data) have been ergonomic issues and 
slips, trips and falls. Baxter has initiated  focused programs  in each of 
these areas. See the Safety Program Management and Initiatives section 
for details.   
1Ten of the 14 companies reported global safety data to Mercer (formerly ORC 
Worldwide), three provided data as requested by  Baxter and one reported data on its 
public website.  
 
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/health -and-safety/performance.html  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/health -and-safety/great -health -and-safety -performers.html  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserv ed    38 
 
Serious I ncidents  
Serious workplace incidents are those that result in an employee or contractor being hospitalized overnight, sustaining an am putation or dying. 
This designation also includes any employee chemical or radiation exposure requiring government notific ation.  
When a serious incident occurs, facility management conducts an evaluation and follows formal processes and reporting mechani sms to share 
knowledge throughout the company to prevent reoccurrence. Baxter’s global EHS requirements also require regiona l and business EHS groups 
to prepare and distribute a report about the incident. In addition, safety personnel discuss each incident with the vice pres ident of EHS and the 
corporate safety director to evaluate root causes and preventive measures.  
Serious i ncidents increased at Baxter in 2013 (eight incidents; three involving contractors) compared to 2012 (five incidents; none in volving 
contractors). No fatalities occurred.   
Great Performers  
See below for a  list of Baxter's  Great Health and Safety Performers  in 2013. These facilities completed at least 10 years of work and/or 
reached 1 million  hours or more (the equivalent of 500 people working for a year) without an occupational injury or illness resulting in days l ost 
(as of December 31, 2013).  
 
Facility  Type  Estimated Years Without 
a Lost -Day Case  Estimated Hours Worked 
Since Last Lost -Day Case  
Vienna, Austria  Plasma Centers  41 3,152,234  
Waukegan, Illinois, United States 
(Aviation)  Office  22 621,023  
Washington, DC, United States  Office  19 238,621  
Las Palmas, Spain  Distribution  19 146,418  
Guangzhou, China  Manufacturing  18 17,913,439  
Moscow, Russia  Office  18 2,903,705  
Vienna, Austria  Offices  18 2,634,207  
Belfast, Northern Ireland  Distribution  18 508,134  
North Cove, North Carolina, United 
States (Replenishment Center)  Distribution  17 3,678,842  
Singapore (Gateway West)  Office  17 2,934,042  
Beijing, China (Sales)  Office  16 2,442,916  
Grand Rapids, Michigan, United 
States  Plasma Center  16 1,255,998  
Mankato, Minnesota, United States  Plasma Center  16 1,205,236  
Fayetteville, Arkansas, United States  Plasma Center  16 958,150  
Suzhou, China  Manufacturing  15 11,994,603  
Seoul, Korea  Office  15 3,140,288  
Taipei, Taiwan  Office  15 1,976,769  
Tokyo, Japan (TDC/TSC)  Distribution  15 932,616  
Tokyo, Japan (CDC)  Commercial Operations  15 776,189   
http:/ /sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/health -and-safety/great -health -and-safety -performers.html  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/health -and-safety/safety -program -management -and-initiatives.html  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     39 
Hayward, California, United States  Manufacturing  14 5,232,763  
Rome, Italy  Office  14 4,621,685  
Sintra, Portugal  Distribution  14 1,618,405  
Shanghai, China  Manufacturing  13 12,597,023  
Renal Nationwide Sales Force 
(United States)  Commer cial Operations  13 3,172,632  
Volketswil, Switzerland  Office  13 1,614,558  
Guangzhou, China  Sales  13 1,013,646  
Hong Kong  Commercial  Operations  13 752,796  
Birmingham, Alabama, United States  Distribution  13 100,629  
Englewood, Colorado, United States  Distribution  13 76,172  
Shanghai, China (China 
Headquarters)  Office  12 4,026,129  
Zurich, Switzerland  Office  12 2,579,101  
Kista, Sweden  Office  12 2,233,930  
Dubuque, Iowa, United States  Plasma Center  12 981,993  
Lima, Ohio, United States  Plasma Center  12 936,109  
Bellingham, Washington, United 
States  Plasma Center  12 809,693  
Appleton, Wisconsin, United States 
(BioLife)  Plasma Center  12 731,950  
Iowa City, Iowa, United States  Plasma Center  12 730,514  
Cheyenne, Wyoming, United States  Plasma Center  12 641,857  
Casper, Wyoming, United States  Plasma Center  12 496,906  
Fond du Lac, Wisconsin, United 
States  Plasma Center  12 460,917  
El Paso, Texas, United States  Distribution  12 75,720  
Guayama, Puerto Rico  Manufacturing  11 6,885,539  
Miyazaki, Japan  Manufacturing  11 6,348,659  
Manila (Laguna), Philippines  Manufacturing  11 4,965,876  
Chennai, India  Manufacturing  11 1,955,374  
Höchstadt, Germany  Distribution  11 1,369,611  
Athens, Greece  Office  11 1,293,752  
Mumbai, India  Office  11 969,526  
Springfield, Missouri, United States  Plasma Center  11 805,480   
http:/ /sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/health -and-safety/great -health -and-safety -performers.html  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/health -and-safety/safety -program -management -and-initiatives.html  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     40 
Janesville, Wisconsin, United States  Plasma Center  11 736,127  
Allerod, Denmark  Commercial Operations  11 701,113  
Thames Valley, Oxford, United 
Kingdom (Compounding)  Commercial Operations  11 501,423  
Obetz, Ohio, United States  Distribution  11 115,788  
Warrendale, Pennsylvania, United 
States  Renal Distribution  11 82,826  
DePew, New York, United States  Renal Distribution  11 75,349  
Houston, Texas, United States  Renal Distribution  11 69,612  
Munich, Germany  Office  10 6,468,843  
Mounds View, Minnesota, United 
States  Plasma Center  10 939,083  
San Vittore, Switzerland  Manufacturing  10 919,152  
Fort Wayne, Indiana, United States  Plasma Center  10 774,268  
Mt. Pleasant, Michigan, United States  Plasma Center  10 727,314  
Kokomo, Indiana, United States  Plasma Center  10 722,665  
Muncie, Indiana, United States  Plasma Center  10 660,003  
Harrisonburg, Virginia, United States  Plasma Center  10 654,415  
Laramie, Wyoming, United States  Plasma Center  10 531,759  
Mount Vernon, United Kingdom 
(Compounding)  Manufacturing  10 438,206  
Nutter Fort, West Virginia, United 
States  Plasma Center  10 408,391  
Grand Forks, North Dakota, United 
States  Plasma Center  10 369,726  
Richmond, Virginia, United States  Renal Distribution  10 100,985  
Hammond, Louisiana, United States  Renal Distribution  10 73,225  
Weston, Florida, United States  Renal Distribution  10 49,185  
Bohumil, Czech Republic  Manufacturing  9 4,846,099  
Madrid, Spain  Office  9 1,634,325  
Sesto, Italy  Manufacturing  9 1,347,035  
Deerfield, Illinois, United States 
(BioScience)  Office  8 1,799,837  
Utrecht, Netherlands  Commercial Operations  8 1,546,990  
Warsaw, Poland  Office  8 1,340,541  
Dublin SSC, Ireland  Office  8 1,159,509   
http:/ /sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/health -and-safety/great -health -and-safety -performers.html  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/health -and-safety/safety -program -management -and-initiatives.html  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     41 
Rieti, Italy  Manufacturing  7 2,661,986  
Baulkham Hills, Australia  Commercial Operations  7 1,233,979  
Waluj, India  Manufacturing  6 8,199,367  
Atlacomulco, Mexico  Manufacturing  6 5,057,950  
Baxter Qiaoguang, China  Manufacturing  6 3,862,704  
Grosotto, Italy  Manufacturing  6 3,410,094  
Lessines B3, Belgium  Commerci al Operations  6 1,610,341  
Buenos Aires, Argentina  Distribution  6 1,448,732  
Aibonito, Puerto Rico  Manufacturing  5 11,165,743  
Istanbul, Turkey  Manufacturing  5 7,526,787  
Round Lake, Illinois, United States 
(William Graham Buildings 2 and 3)  Research  5 4,202,599  
Heredia, Costa Rica (Baxter America 
Services)  Office  5 1,854,722  
Round Lake, Illinois  Research  4 6,552,701  
Ecuador (Renal Therapy Services 
Sites)  Commerci al Operations  4 1,459,892  
Orth/Donau, Austria  Research  3 6,171,274  
Neuchâtel, Switzerland  Manufacturing  3 4,216,112  
Compton, United Kingdom  Commercial Operations  3 2,598,331  
Sabiñánigo, Spain  Manufacturing  3 1,736,377  
Maurepas, France  Commercial Operations  3 1,600,855  
Vernon Hills, Illinois, United States  Office (Credit Union)  3 1,458,267  
Cartago, Costa Rica  Manufacturing  2 7,095,150  
Cali, Colombia  Manufacturing  2 6,435,461  
Colombia (Renal Therapy Services 
Sites)  Commercial Operations  2 6,125,175  
Medina, New York, United States  Manufacturing  2 2,157,636  
São Paulo, SP - Regional Offices, 
Brazil  Office  2 1,321,099  
Guatemala (Renal Therapy Services 
sites)  Office  2 1,309,520  
Halle, Germany  Manufacturing  2 1,219,957  
United States (MDD Nationwide 
Sales Personnel)  Office  2 1,193,270  
Cuernavaca, Mexico  Office  1 4,912,556   
http:/ /sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/health -and-safety/great -health -and-safety -performers.html  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/health -and-safety/safety -program -management -and-initiatives.html  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     42 
Deerfield, Illinois, United States 
(Corporate Staff)  Office  1 4,109,650  
Bloomington, Indiana, United States 
(Medication Delivery)  Manufacturing  1 3,741,540  
Manesar, India  Manufacturing  1 2,794,457  
Thetford, United Kingdom  Manufacturing  1 1,884,234  
Lessines, Belgium  Manufacturing  1 1,466,652  
Vernon Hills, Illinois, United States  Office  1 1,316,369  
Braine l'Alleud, Belgium  Manufacturing  1 1,181,667  
Woodlands Bioscience, Woodlands, 
Singapore  Manufacturing  1 1,135,869  
Marsa, Malta  Manufacturing  1 1,008,229  
Vienna, Austria (Combined Sites)  Manufacturing  0 1,529,741  
Castlebar and Swinford, Ireland  Manufacturing  0 1,527,511  
Jayuya, Puerto Rico  Manufacturing  0 1,139,440  
Deerfield, Illinois, United States 
(Medical Products)  Office  0 1,030,440  
 
Safety Program Management and Initiatives  
Baxter's safety, occupational health and industrial hygiene functions establish the company’s strategies 
in those areas and sponsor global teams of corporate, regional, site and business -unit safety 
professionals to help refine and implement related approa ches. These teams set priorities and establish, 
maintain and continually improve global programs and initiatives.  
Several indicators measure safety performance at Baxter. Recordable case rate and cases with days 
lost rate are integrated into senior managers' annual performance management objectives and progress 
on these metrics impacts the ir compensation. The company also tracks serious incidents and evaluates 
each one that takes place, to fully understand root causes and prevent recurrence. The EHS 
organization reports employee safety performance to Baxter’s senior leadership every other m onth and 
to Baxter’s manufacturing and supply chain management monthly. The EHS organization also 
communicates this performance to the company’s Board of Directors.
 
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/health -and-safety/safety -program -management -and-initiatives .html  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     43 
 
Enhancing Safety Culture and 
Performance  
In 2013, Baxter strengthened its three -pronged 
approach to enhancing its safety culture and 
performance (see graphic) based on a review of 
historical performance trends.  
Focused Injury -Reduction Strategies  
Injury and illness metrics and internal EHS audits 
provide focus for safety and occupational healt h efforts. 
Baxter continues to target ergonomics and slips, trips and falls, the top sources of injury within the company.  
Ergonomics:  Baxter’s ergonomic integration strategy embeds ergonomic considerations into existing management systems. The strategy 
consists of the following:  
• Measuring risk to drive decisionmaking.  Baxter conducted  pilot studies  at multiple facilities during 2012 and 2013. Based on  the results, 
Baxter selected the Ergonomic Job Measurement System (EJMS) to quantify ergonomic risk and support business decisions regardi ng 
control measures.  
• Incorporating ergonomics into engineering designs.  Engineering design concepts ensure equipment fits the characteristics and 
capabilities of the worker. Baxter’s ergonomic design guidelines and training for internal engineering personnel support prev ention of 
ergonomic injuries through design.  
• Applying lean ergonomics to reduce wasted motion.  Lean er gonomics eliminates wasted human motion, thereby improving productivity 
while reducing ergonomic risk. In 2013, Baxter integrated lean ergonomic concepts in existing management systems training.  
Baxter also continues to deploy Safety in Motion® “train -the-trainer” programming, which teaches simple and effective techniques to more 
safely perform everyday activities, such as lifting, pushing and pulling. Baxter conducted a Safety in Motion® trainer certif ication class in Puerto 
Rico in 2013. North America cur rently has 31 certified trainers.  
Fall Prevention:  In addition to enhanced training and resources made available on a dedicated website, Baxter developed a safety bulletin to 
reinforce fall prevention strategies for falls from heights. Safety bulletins qui ckly and effectively reinforce safety messages at the facility level.  
The Future State of Safety Task Force  
Launched in late 2011, this multidisciplinary team conducted internal and 
external benchmarking, performed a literature review and met with safety 
thought leaders in 2012 to identify essential elements and strategies that drive 
a strong, integrated safety culture. Key learnings included the need for a 
consistent safety management approach, easy access to safety resources for 
all employees, and a long -term commitment to continuous improvement. In 
2013, Baxter used these concepts to develop critical safety behaviors for four 
levels of employees. “The Safety Connection,” an intranet portal launched in 
January 2014, defines each employee’s role in safety and provides tools, 
resources and success stories to promote safety engagement and 
empowerment across the company. Baxter “Safety Agents” assist with direct 
communication and deployment at the facility level.  
Emphasis on High -Hazard Sources  
Serious injurie s tend to arise from a specific subset of “high hazards,” so Baxter’s BioScience business unit has implemented a high -hazard 
management program. This program focuses on identifying potential high hazards and systematically reducing injury risk throug h engi neering 
solutions, enhanced operational controls and training. To date, the company has performed more than 800 high -risk assessments, and 
implemented changes to reduce risk to acceptable levels in more than 250 cases.  
In 2013, teams continued to pilot the  use of portable technology to engage frontline employees in the hazard identification process in the North 
America and Europe, Middle East and Africa regions.  
Severity Classification System:  In 2013, Baxter developed a system to ensure that all EHS incidents are categorized according to their potential 
severity, and that the company devotes appropriate resources to discover the root causes of events, correct them and prevent reoccurrence. 
Baxter will implement this system in 2014.  
 
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/health -and-safety/safety -program -management -and-initiatives.html  
http://sustainability.baxter.com/environment -health -safety/health -and-safety/health -and-wellness -management -and-initiatives.html  
© Copyright 201 4 Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved     44 
Other Safety Progra ms and Initiatives  
Confined Space  
During 2013, Baxter strengthened its confined space program management. The company continued to deploy companywide policy an d 
reference and training guides, global training, and during EHS audits, sharpened the focus on c onfined space entry programs and procedures. 
In addition, the company added resources to the dedicated confined space intranet site, including training videos.   
Near Miss Reporting  
Near miss reporting continues to be an effective strategy to engage employe es in the process of identifying and mitigating hazards in the 
workplace. Baxter uses 10 criteria to define an effective near miss program, including the expectation that sites will invest igate serious near 
miss incidents and implement appropriate correcti ve and preventive actions. Using these criteria, Baxter verified effective programs in 78% of 
locations with 100 or more employees, exceeding the company’s goal of 75%.  
Health and Wellness Program Management and Initiatives  
Baxter's occupational health fun ction develops the company’s strategies related to health and wellness. A global team of diverse health 
professionals helps refine and implement these approaches. This team defines specific priorities and establishes, maintains a nd continually 
improves glo bal strategies in this area.  
BeWell@Baxter  
Baxter recognizes that healthy employees are more likely to be engaged and productive, and are less vulnerable to safety inci dents and 
injuries. Through BeWell@Baxter, the company’s global employee health and well ness effort, Baxter strives to create a culture that promotes 
work -related and personal health, raises awareness about these issues and supports individual accountability and engagement.  
The cornerstone of BeWell@Baxter is the Personal Wellness Profile, an  online health risk assessment that helps employees understand how 
their lifestyle choices, family history and other factors impact their health. By the end of 2013, 29% of the company’s emplo yees worldwide 
completed a Personal Wellness Profile1. Data indi cated that heart disease was a significant risk for many employees. To address this, Baxter 
established “Healthy Heart” as a year -long theme and encouraged all locations to plan events to raise awareness on this issue.  
Also in 2013, more than 11,000 employ ees (up 8% compared to 2012) logged more than 175,000 hours of exercise (up 16%) as part of the 
BeWell@Baxter Exercise Challenge. Sixty -eight percent of employees (up 14%) from 137 facilities worldwide (up 20%) took part in “Healthy 
Eating Month.”  
Other Pr ograms and Initiatives  
Baxter's occupational health team also works to continually improve the company's performance with the following programs and  initiatives:  
• Flu vaccine  – In 2013, Baxter offered seasonal flu vaccinations to 99% of its employees at no charge. A total of 20,637 employees were 
vaccinated, representing 37.5% of the company’s total population. In addition, 804 vaccinations were provided to family membe rs. 
• Health promotion programs  – In 2013, 74% of targeted facilities (those with 100 or mor e employees) achieved at least eight out of 10 
health -promotion program criteria, exceeding the goal of 65%.  
• Smoke -free workplaces  – The company maintained its commitment to providing a smoke -free work environment with 89% of campuses 
totally smoke -free. A ll Baxter facilities in Asia Pacific, North America and Latin America are smoke -free. 
Case Management  
Baxter has established strong capabilities at the facility level to effectively manage work -related injuries through early intervention and prompt 
treatme nt. The company continues to maintain a network of local program owners through ongoing case management education. In 2013, 8 6% 
of all locations with 25 or more employees had a case management program in place, according to  defined criteria . 
Due to Baxter’s multidisciplinary approach to work -injury management, the company’s average incurred cost per claim in the United States 
(determined 19 months after the incident) was 34% lower in 2012 than the average for other clients of Baxter’s third party administrator.  
1Beginning in 2011, profiles untouched for three years were removed from the active database. At the beginning of 2013, the par ticipation rate was 15.6%.   
  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/index.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
2 
Product Responsibility  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baxter develops, manufactures and markets products for people with hemophilia, immune disorders, infectious 
diseases, kidney disease, trauma, and  other chronic and acute medical conditions. The company's products 
are infused, injected or inhaled more than two billion times annually, to treat life -threatening acute or chronic 
conditions.  
While delivering products that save or sustain lives, Baxter also works to address environmental and social issues across the product life cycle. 
These range from sustainable design and bioethics during research and development, to energy and materials efficiency during manufacturing 
and transport, to responsible ad vertising and promotion, and finally, appropriate treatment of products at end -of-life. Baxter also has programs 
to ensure high standards in quality, safety and product integrity.  
The following graphic illustrates the breadth and depth of the company's app roach.  
  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/index.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
3 
 
Sustainability across the Product Life Cycle  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
http://www.sustainabi lity.baxter.com/product -responsibility/quality.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/safety.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
4 
Quality  
Every day, Baxter products make the difference between life and death for millions of patients worldwide. The company's reput ation and 
ongoing success depend on the quality of  Baxter's products and services. Therefore, uncompromising dedication to quality is a guiding principle 
of the company's culture and is among its  shared values . 
Baxter's  global quality management system (called "1QSys" for "one quality system") provides a single, global Baxter -wide standard for quality. 
1QSys offers a consistent approach to managing quality across the product life cycle, including design, development, man ufacturing, 
sterilization, labeling, packaging, distribution and promotion. 1QSys helps to address the complexities of managing across in terconnected 
businesses, regions and manufacturing operations, enhancing the company's ability to meet quality standard s and adapt to changes in a 
complex regulatory environment.  
Baxter regularly evaluates and reviews its quality management system to identify and correct issues that may affect product a nd service quality, 
and pursues continuous improvement through a range of data -driven methodologies. One focus is simplifying processes, which increases 
efficiency and prevents potential quality issues from occurring. Baxter also assesses its suppliers of raw materials, compone nts and finished 
goods to track and enhance their  performance. After products are launched, the company executes post -market surveillance to monitor the 
safety, efficacy and quality of products while in use. See  Safet y for more information.  
When Baxter identifies a potential quality or patient safety issue with one of its products or determines that products manuf actured or marketed 
by the company are not optimally safe for our patients, or do not meet company specific ations, published standards or regulatory requirements, 
it investigates and takes appropriate preventive and corrective actions. This may include patient risk mitigation actions, e. g., healthcare 
professional and/or patient training, providing notice to th e customer of revised labeling, correction of the problem at the customer location, 
withdrawal of the product from the market and/or other actions. See  Safety for detail.  
Baxter takes any self -identified quality or patient safety issues or findings by regulatory authorities very seriously, and establishes 
comprehensive plans to address the specific findings. As these plans are executed, Baxter also evaluates the ide ntified corrective actions to 
determine potential to leverage the improvements on a broader basis.  
Safety  
Promoting patient safety is at the core of everything Baxter does. The company was founded in 1931 on its ability to produce safe intravenous 
(IV) sol utions for hospitals at a time when most hospitals were not equipped to prepare their own.  
Today, Baxter focuses on safety across the product life cycle, from product development and enhancements, to post -market research, 
pharmacovigilance and other post -market surveillance activities. For example, Baxter’s pharmacovigilance department identifies, confirms, and 
communicates pre - and post -market drug safety signals, as required by the FDA. Through product labeling and risk management activities, the 
departme nt identifies and executes approaches to promote a positive benefit -risk balance of Baxter’s therapeutic drug products and medical 
devices.  
The company also collaborates with hospitals to assess their patient safety processes, and partners with customers a nd third parties to develop 
patient and clinician educational materials and raise safety standards. This section includes examples of these efforts, as w ell as other ways 
the company enhances patient safety worldwide:  
• Supporting Reduction of Pathogens  
• Continuously Improving Product Design  
• Educating Healthcare Professionals on Safe Practices  
• Complying with Government Regulations  
• Addressing Product Safety Issues  
Supporting Red uction of Pathogens  
In 1971, Baxter introduced the first flexible, plastic IV bag. As the first “closed system” IV container, the bag did not req uire venting during 
administration. This keeps the solution from contacting outside air, helping to minimize co ntamination.  
The compatibility of the Baxter IV System with both Baxter infusion pump therapy and gravity applications follows safety guid elines for IV 
replacement.1 Baxter’s IV Standard Sets help reduce the number of set -ups and teardowns which decreases the risk of touch contamination.2 
Despite evidence that use of closed IV system containers can help reduce pathogens, many hospitals in developing countries co ntinue to use 
open IV systems. Baxter works with governments and healthcare providers to help con duct studies and implement conversion to IV standard 
set technology in numerous markets to help improve safety and efficiency and reduce waste.   
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/safety.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
5 
Continuously Improving Product Design  
Baxter’s  IV connector portfolio includes the ONE -LINK needle -free IV connector. Designed for single patient use with a vascular access device 
for the administration of drugs and solutions without needles, the ONE -LINK needle -free IV connector can be used to aspira te blood and is 
compatible with a wide variety of catheters typically found in a healthcare setting. It builds upon the INTERLINK system, a n eedle -free platform 
that Baxter pioneered more than 20 years ago to help protect healthcare workers from needle sti cks. 
One of the most common types of noninfectious complications with central venous catheters (CVCs) —a catheter placed into a large vein in the 
neck or chest —is that blood can back up into the catheter and form a clot that could occlude the catheter. As m any as one in three CVCs 
become occluded.3 The ONE -LINK connector with neutral fluid displacement helps to prevent reflux of blood back into the tip of the catheter 
upon connection or disc onnection. This may  help reduce the risk of thrombotic occlusions co mpared to other devices with higher reflux 
volumes.4 
Baxter launched ONE -LINK in Canada in 2011 and in the U.S. in 2012. During development and launch, the company visited clinicians in 
hospital and health center settings to gather feedback about their use  of ONE -LINK. Based on this input, Baxter developed five additional 
configurations throughout 2013, to help further meet clinician and patient needs, launching them in 2014. One new configurati on will focus on 
the delivery of fluids at a higher flow rate, while another will include options that help secure the connector during procedures. In 2014, Baxter 
launched ONE -LINK in Colombia, Puerto Rico, and New Zealand.  
In 2013, Baxter also transitioned from glass to aluminum bottles for SUPRANE (desflurane, USP) , Volatile Liquid for Inhalation. The aluminum 
material is virtually unbreakable under normal use conditions. The aluminum container is lightweight and space efficient, and  may facilitate 
easier handling of SUPRANE.5, 6, 7 
Educating Healthcare Professional s on Safe Practices  
Baxter provides training and guidance to health care professionals not only in the safe and proper use of its products but al so in treating various 
disease states. In 2014, Baxter launched IgCare, a free service that provides healthcare  professionals with educational resources relevant to 
clinical practices that support immunoglobulin therapy delivery, interactive opportunities with clinical thought leaders, and  expanded access to 
scientific research and clinical practice guidelines.  
The Baxter -sponsored Canadian Institute of Nutrition Excellence (CINE) is composed of stakeholders dedicated to improving clinical suppo rt 
practice, patient outcomes and patient safety in nutrition therapy.  
Baxter’s U.S. and Latin America renal teams partnered in 2013 to conduct the very first peritoneal dialysis (PD) nurse training in the Caribbean, 
held in Trinidad and Tobago. They provided medical professionals with PD educational sessions and supplies, including trainin g dolls that 
allowed particip ants to practice techniques without contaminating an actual patient.  
Complying with Government Regulations  
Baxter's operations and products are subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental agencies worldwide. View the  Baxter 2013 
Annual Report  to learn more.  
Addressing Product Safety Issues  
When Baxter identifies a potential quality or safety issue with one of its products or determines that products manufactured or marketed by the 
company do not meet company specifications, published standards or regulatory requirements, it investigates and takes appropr iate corrective 
action, such as revising labeling, correct ing the problem at the customer location, withdrawing the product from the market and/or other actions.  
 
1 O’Grady NP, Alexander M, Dellinger EP, et al. Guidelines for the Prevention of Intravascular Catheter -Related Infections. Infection Control 
Hosp Epid emiol. 2002 Dec;23 (12):759 -69.  
2 Raad I, Hanna HA, Awad A, et. Al. Optimal Frequency of Changing Intravenous Administration Sets: Is it safe to prolong use be yond 72 
hours? Infection Control Hosp Epidemiol. 2001 Mar;22 (3):136 -39. 
3 Hadaway LC. Reopen th e pipeline for IV therapy. Nursing. 2005;35(8):54 -61.  
4 Data on file. Baxter Healthcare Corporation.   
5 Data on file. Baxter Healthcare Corpor ation. March, 2010 CSR01281R2.  
6 Data on file. Baxter Healthcare Corporation. September, 2007 CSR00766.   
7 Data on fil e. Baxter Healthcare Corporation. July 19, 2012 #1245968. 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/product -integrity.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
6 
Product Integrity  
Counterfeit and/or adulterated medical products pose growing risks to patient safety worldwide. Maintaining product integrity  is a complex and 
multifaceted challenge, encompassing an array of supply chain, product design and packaging, and risk management strategies.  
Baxter launched a formal, global product integrity program in 2008 to safeguard the company’s products from the threat of cou nterfeiting or 
adulteration. The company’s diverse product portfolio is manufactured in 28 countries and sold in more than 100 countries globally, and ranges 
in complexity from basic intravenous solutions to highly -specialized biologic derived therapies. Baxter’s product integrity measures take int o 
account the differing levels of complexity and risk associated with individual products and markets.  
The company has conducted a series of risk assessments, examining economic incentives, supply chain and product complexity, a nd other 
factors that may c ontribute to this issue. Based on that analysis, Baxter prioritized certain product lines and geographies for piloting and 
implementing various product authentication and security measures.  
Risk Assessment and Ongoing 
Monitoring  
Economic realities, manufa cturing processes and supply 
chain dynamics vary considerably by product and market. 
Accordingly, the risk profile associated with a particular 
product can present distinct challenges. Baxter has 
conducted an extensive review of its product portfolio and 
geographic presence to assess the level of risk associated 
with individual products by market. The highest priority 
products and markets were earmarked for initial 
implementation of various product integrity measures, 
including multiple layers of product pa ckaging features and 
serialization using GS1 standards, the most widely used 
supply chain standards system in the world. The GS1 
information standards organization is dedicated to the 
design and implementation of global standards and 
solutions to improve t he efficiency and visibility of supply 
and demand chains globally and across sectors.  
Because changing economics, shifting political climates, new technologies and other world events can impact risk levels, the risk assessment 
process must be dynamic and informed by ongoing monitoring and information sharing among law enforcement and regulatory officials and 
industry players. In addition to these broader trends, Baxter monitors for patterns or anomalies within its own pharmacovigil ance, product 
complaint r eporting and customer order systems to spot and investigate potential events or product issues that may have resulted from or  
suggest adulteration or wrong -doing.  
Supply Chain Measures  
Maintaining a secure supply chain, all the way from Baxter to the end user of the product, is essential to ensuring product integrity. Direct 
selling and sole source agreements are one way the company can retain control and/or visibility of the product for much of it s route. Baxter 
regularly monitors customer purchasing data  and trends and has terminated or changed customer relationships after detecting actions that 
jeopardize supply chain integrity (e.g. resale of product, unexplained spikes or changes in ordering behavior that would sugg est diversion). 
Baxter’s sales contra cts include restrictions that support supply chain transparency and control, which may include restrictions or requirements 
related to the destruction of product packaging in some markets.  
Additionally, the company was an early adopter of GS1 standards including the Global Trade Item Number (GTIN). A GTIN is a unique 
identification number tagged to a product that provides the link between the item and the information pertaining to it. GS1 s tandards are used to 
uniquely distinguish all products,  trade items, logistic units, locations, assets, and relationships in the supply chain —from manufacturer to 
consumers. Baxter believes that global adoption of GS1 standards will facilitate greater use of technologies that can help en sure that products 
are moved correctly and efficiently throughout the supply chain. Ultimately, adoption of these standards can help enable healthca re 
professionals to verify they are administering the right product to the right patient at the right time.  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/product -integrity.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/research -development -design/index.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/research -development -design/animal -welfare.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
7 
Collaboration with Off icials and Industry Partners  
Baxter collaborates with regulatory and public health officials and industry experts on an ongoing basis to share intelligenc e, insights and 
experience regarding the integrity of products and supply chain. Groups such as GS1, P harmaceutical Cargo Security Coalition, Parenteral 
Drug Association and Rx360 have facilitated exchange of industry expertise and collaboration with regulatory authorities to d evelop and raise 
standards, drive voluntary adoption of new processes and techno logies, and implement new measures to advance product integrity and protect 
patients and clinicians.  
Product Packaging and Design  
Over the last several years, Baxter has implemented several enhancements to product and container design and labeling to enab le and expand 
product authentication and the ability to identify tampering. These measures may include multiple levels of closure and packa ging, elaborate 
closure systems and the use of unique materials. Due to the openness of global trade and the increasin g sophistication of counterfeiters, 
companies must vary their approaches and continue to evolve specific technologies or materials used.  
Preventing and overcoming the many threats to product integrity that exist today and will arise in the future requires a comprehensive approach 
that incorporates many elements. Industry -wide, global adoption of GS1 standards are important building blocks in securing the supply chain. 
Baxter looks forward to expanding its implementation of the GS1 standards, furthering its product integrity efforts and driving greater security 
and efficiency in the delivery of our products to healthcare providers and patients around the world.  
R&D and Design  
The research and development and design stages offer unique opportunities to shape a  product's sustainability performance across its life 
cycle, since it is during those phases that decisions affect sustainability the most. To address environmental, health and sa fety issues such as 
materials selection, energy use, and features that affect  recyclability, Baxter conducts  Product Sustainability Review  during the early stages of 
product development.  
Baxter also ha s various policies and programs in place to address a wide range of bioethics issues, from  Animal Welfare  and Clinical Trials  to 
the use of genetically modified organisms and the cloning and use of human embryos. The company's  Bioethics Policy  includes Baxter's 
Bioethics Guiding Principles that address topics such as product safety and efficacy, stakeholder concerns, risk -benefit analysis, legal and 
regulatory compliance, vendor con formance to Baxter's standards, clinical trials, animal welfare and biodiversity.  
The company's senior leadership team considers these principles in addition to the advice of scientific and ethical advisors to determine 
whether to proceed with research act ivities that touch upon bioethical aspects. For such activities to be justified, the potential benefits to 
individual subjects and society must equal or exceed possible risks. For more information, see Baxter's  Bioethics Position Statements . 
Animal Welfare  
Baxter supports the conscientious use of animals in research only when no other acceptable scientific alternative exists to d emonstrate t he 
safety and effectiveness of the company's life saving and sustaining products and therapies. Baxter believes that it has an e thical responsibility 
to ensure the well -being and humane care of the animals it uses in product development and testing. In the  substantial majority of cases where 
Baxter uses animal testing, it is required by health authorities to do so.  
Consistent with Baxter's  Bioethics Position Statemen t, the company is committed to using and developing alternative protocols, methodologies 
and models which  reduce or replace the use of animals. Baxter also works to refine current test systems to improve animal welfare while 
ensuring sound data. For decades, the company has supported pre -clinical testing involving humane animal use that complies with all rele vant 
local, national and transnational laws and regulations (as verified by regular inspections by the respective authorities/agen cies) as well as 
additional voluntary  guidelines . 
Veterinary professionals with specialty training operate Baxter's research a nimal facilities, which are overseen by Animal Care and Use 
Committees as well as local authorities. These committees review research and testing protocols to ensure that they are appro priately 
designed, that the information derived is essential and full c onsideration is given to animal welfare. Baxter's animal research facilities are fully 
accredited by the Association for the Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International (AAALAC), which ev aluates 
organizations that use animals in re search, teaching or testing. In the United States, the company's facilities are also registered and inspected 
regularly by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). Outside the United States, Baxter's animal facilities and programs ar e regularly 
inspected  by relevant government agencies and comply with all applicable laws and regulations.  
All animals used within Baxter’s research facilities are from sources that Baxter's veterinary professionals select carefully  and monitor regularly. 
Contract research org anizations that Baxter uses must follow similar animal care and welfare standards, and are reviewed as part of Baxter's 
overall quality and regulatory compliance program.   
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/research -development -design/animal -welfare.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
8 
Baxter's Global Animal Welfare Committee  
Baxter's Global Animal Welfare Committee is composed of internal veterinary professionals and animal scientists whose goals a re to enhance 
current programs and to identify and de velop new opportunities to optimize animal welfare. The committee oversees standards of animal 
welfare across Baxter's global operations and contract research organizations including academic institutions.  
The committee focuses on:  
• Further developing and i mplementing programs that will advance the 3Rs (as described below), and other animal use initiatives;  
• Encouraging the identification, investigation and validation of alternative test methods when opportunities exist and regulat ions permit;  
• Setting univers al standards of animal care and welfare across all Baxter animal research sites and external collaborators;  
• Reviewing Baxter’s animal use, animal welfare programs, and related policies and standards regularly; and  
• Updating internal animal welfare education  and training programs.  
The committee provides ongoing assessment and support of Baxter's animal testing programs to harmonize processes and tools gl obally. The 
committee's recommendations are guided by the Association for Assessment and Accreditation of L aboratory Animal Care International's 
system of program accreditation. To help ensure Baxter maintains the highest standards of practice, committee members partici pate in leading 
professional organizations where they receive continuing education and share best practices. Examples include:  
United States  
• American Association for Laboratory Animal Science  
• American College of Laboratory Animal Medicine  
• American Society of Laboratory Animal Practitioners  
• Council on Research for American Veterinary Medical Associ ation  
• Extractables and Leachables Safety Information Exchange  
• Product Quality Research Institute  
Europe  
• The European Partnership for Alternative Approaches to Animal Testing  
• Federation of European Laboratory Animal Science Associations  
• Society for Laboratory Animal Science  
International  
• The Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International  
• The International Association of Bioethics  
• International Consortium for Innovation and Quality in Pharmaceutical Development  
 
In 2012, Baxter was a forming member of the International Consortium for Innovation and Quality (IQ) in Pharmaceutical Develop ment and was 
involved in the establishment of the Reduction, Refinement, and Replacement Leadership Group (3Rs LG). The Leadership Group is an 
association of senior veterinarians and 3Rs specialists from IQ member companies that meet on a regular basis to review and d iscuss common 
scientific and regulatory issues and topics surrounding the use of animals.  
Replace, Reduce and Refine  
Baxter is committed to enhancing animal welfare through the 3Rs - replacement, reduction and refinement. The company applies a range of 
innovations in this area, including those described below.  
Replacement  
Baxter implements new technologies and processes to  substitute animal with non -animal tests.  
• For both new product development and established products, Baxter replaces animal safety testing with cell -based alternative in 
vitro1 methods where regulations will allow. In vitro test systems are being validated  and registered, which will substantially reduce the use 
of animals for in -process and final product quality release tests.  
• Building upon its expertise in developing cell -based methods of vaccine production, Baxter uses its proprietary cell line system wit h next -
generation production methods that do not require large quantities of fertilized chicken eggs.  
• When permitted, Baxter uses cell -based tests to determine the antibody content for specific antibody -based products. For example, for its 
liquid immunoglo bulin intravenous (IGIV) products that help people with compromised immune systems fight disease, Baxter has replaced 
animal -based potency testing with a cell -based test.  
• Baxter uses thromboelastography (a non -animal, in -vitro test to assess blood clotting ) to assess how qui ckly clots form on new products 
designed to stop bleeding. This screening test helps to minimize the number of animals needed for efficacy studies.   
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/research -development -design/animal -welfare.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
9 
Reduction  
When Baxter is required to conduct animal testing, researchers use enhanced data collection and analysis methods to reduce overall animal 
use. 
• Baxter continues to focus on increasing the amount of information collected per study by combining study activities, for exam ple, so that 
fewer animals are used overall.  
• Baxter participates in the Extractables and Leachables Safety Information Exchange and utilizes other databases of test metho ds to share 
toxicity data to minimize the use of animals.  
• Baxter uses non -invasive, state -of-the-art technologies such as CT scans, fluorescent imaging, advanced ultrasound and fluoroscopy to 
decrease the need for invasive testing.  
• As new testing methods become available, methods must be validated and approved in cooperation with government re gulators prior to 
medical use of the product. Baxter adopts new, approved methods, applies new testing models and thereby reduces animal testin g wherever 
possible. For example, Baxter is implementing strategies to reduce intermediate test steps using the r abbit pyrogen (fever -producing) test, 
and when possible combines lot runs to minimize the use of control test animals used in a number of product safety and potenc y tests.  
Refinement  
Baxter researchers work closely with other scientists and industry organi zations to share best practices and demonstrate continual 
improvement. The company also supports organizations that aim to reduce the need for animal testing and promote animal welfar e. 
• Baxter evaluates and ensures consistently high standards for all anima l housing methods and cage -level enrichments. The company invests 
in enhanced animal housing to improve comfort and reduce stress.  
• Baxter continues to adopt or advance in -vitro techniques to test the efficacy of its products that help stop bleeding in pati ents in life -
threatening situations.  
• When possible, the company uses positive reinforcement to condition animals used in studies to enable administration of test materials and 
collection of blood samples without the use of physical restraint or anesthetics , minimizing stress and improving data quality.  
• Baxter is exploring using antibody levels in the blood of vaccinated animals as a surrogate marker to evaluate viral -based vaccine potency, 
instead of measuring the ability to resist infection with a live vir us, thereby avoiding the illness stage of the test.  
• Baxter uses technology with greater detection and quantification of biological parameters to reduce the frequency and volume of samples 
taken from animals.  
Voluntary Animal Welfare Guidelines  
Baxter compl ies with relevant animal welfare regulations and guidelines:  
United States  
• U.S. Animal Welfare Act Standards ; and  
• The Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals  
Europe  
• European Treaty Series No. 123 (ETS123) European Convention for the Protection of Vertebrate Animals Used for Experimental an d Other 
Scientific Purposes ; and  
• European Directive 2010/63/EU  on the protection of animals used for experimental and other scientific purposes.  
International  
• World Health Organization Council for International Organizations of Medical Sciences International Guiding Principles for Bi omedical 
Research Involving Anima ls 
• Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International  
• http://www.aaalac.org/  
• http://www.aaalac.org/ National Research Council: Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals  (revised 2011 version); and  
• Amer ican National Standards Institute/Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation/International Organization for 
Standardization 10993 -2 Biological Evaluation of Medical Devices - Part 2: Animal welfare requirements . 
 
1 In-vitro tests are performed on individual cells in a lab environment versus in a living organism.   
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/produ ct-responsibility/research -development -design/clinical -trials.html . 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/research -development -design/product -sustainability.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
10 
Clinical Trials  
 
Clinical trials play an essential role in the development of new products and are legally required for the majority of Baxter  products. The 
company protects the safety, well -being  and privacy of clinical trial participants, as well as the completeness and integrity of data obtained from 
these studies.  
The company's Clinical Trials Policy defines the requirements for clinical trials, studies and investigations involving human  subjec ts that use 
investigational and/or marketed medicinal products and/or medical devices. The policy applies to all Baxter -sponsored studies worldwide. 
Clinical trials at Baxter require prior written approval by an Independent Ethics Committee/Institutional R eview Board. Study subjects must 
provide informed written consent before any study -related activities or assessments occur.  
Baxter is committed to sharing results from its clinical trials with the scientific and medical communities and the broader p ublic v ia publications 
in peer -reviewed journals, presentations at scientific and medical conferences, and postings on U.S. Food and Drug Administration or 
European Medicines Agency -authorized public repositories. For any clinical trial that prospectively assigns  human subjects to intervention and 
comparison groups to study the cause -and-effect relationship between a medical intervention and a health outcome, Baxter registers the trial at  
www.clinicaltrials.g ov and/or https://eudract.ema.europa.eu/ . 
Baxter adheres to standards related to clinical trials including, but not limited to, those found in the following:  
Europe  
• European Union Directive 2001/20/EC  and Directive 2005/28/EC  on the Approximation of the Laws, Regulations and Administrative 
Provision of the Member States relating to the implementation of good clinical practices in the conduct of clinical trials on  medicinal products 
for humans; and  
• European Union  Medical Device Directives.  
United States  
• Applicable privacy and data protection standards and regulations such as the  U.S. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability 
Act regulations and other country -specific requirements; and  
• U.S. Code of Federal Regula tions Part 50 and 312 for drugs and Part 812 for medical device.  
International  
• The International Conference on Harmonization  Guidelines for Industr y Governing Good Clinical Practice  and Good Manufacturing 
Practices ; 
• Principles that have their origin in the  Declaration of Helsinki ; and 
• The laws and regulations of the applicable country.  
Product Sustainability  
A significant part of Baxter’s environmental footprint is embodied i n the products it designs, manufactures and sells worldwide. Reducing these 
impacts has been a key focus area for the company for many years. To further its efforts, Baxter launched a new Product Susta inability 
Program in 2012, building on extensive partne rship s with the R&D, marketing and supply chain groups. During 2013, the program team 
continued its efforts to embed product stewardship more deeply across Baxter, through meetings with product teams from across  the company 
to identify opportunities to imp rove product environmental performance.  
Baxter is committed to continually improving the sustainability of its products. Doing so meets customers’ growing expectatio ns and 
requirements, and decreases the company’s environmental impacts across the value cha in. Making progress in this area requires a broad 
range of inputs and expertise, from understanding customer needs to assessing product environmental performance and communica ting 
results (see graphic). These activities require the collaboration of people representing different teams and functions across the company, from 
marketing and environment, health and safety, to R&D, product development and supply chain.  
To fully consider environmental performance in product design, Baxter must understand the possib le impacts of the decisions it makes across 
the life cycle, from materials extraction through end -of-life. This is complex, and often involves trade -offs along multiple dimensions. To achieve 
this, the company has adopted sophisticated analytical processes  and tools, including Product Sustainability Review and life cycle assessment 
(LCA).   
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/research -development -design/product -sustainability.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Product Sustainability Review  
Product Sustainability Review (PSR) provides the foundation for the company’s efforts in sustainable design. This required as sessment occurs 
during the early stages and throughout the Design Control Methodology, which guides the product development process for all m edical devices. 
PSR enables Baxter to fully consider and address environmental, health and safety factors such as materials selection, energy use and 
recyclability.  
The process includes identifying high -level sustainability risks and opportunities in areas such as laws and regulations and customer and other 
stakeholder requirements (see graphic), as well as a comprehensive revi ew that identifies improvement opportunities across the life cycle. This 
includes LCA -related computer modeling of a proposed product, and may involve comparison to existing products. Designers use this 
assessment to inform material choices and evaluate pr oduct end -of-life options and other factors. Baxter uses these results to help establish 
product requirements and minimize potential product impacts to human health and the environment.  
PSR is focused on medical devices, ranging from intravenous solution c ontainers to dialysis machines. Since 2005, Baxter has used PSR to 
evaluate all new medical devices reaching the concept stage of development (more than 15 products so far), and currently has several devices 
under review. PSR has yielded positive results, and several reviews have influenced materials selection by avoiding chemicals of concern.  
PSR also helps Baxter address compliance considerations for existing and upcoming product -stewardship regulations, and the company 
periodically updates the PSR toxic chemicals screen to reflect changes in legislation, customer concerns, and other factors. This helps Baxter 
meet growing customer demands to limit these substances and prepare for potential material restrictions under the REACH Direc tive and other 
regulati ons worldwide. Through PSR, materials requirements are documented in the product design history file. See  Materials Use  for more 
information about Baxter’s appro ach related to product materials.  
Life Cycle Assessment  
Supplementing PSR, Baxter also uses LCA to evaluate the environmental performance of its products and determine ways to reduc e 
environmental footprint. This may include decreasing the presence of chem icals of concern and reducing life cycle water or energy 
consumption, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and waste generation.   
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/research -development -design/product -sustainability.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/materials -use.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
12 
In 2013, Baxter completed and updated a comparative  LCA of two of the company’s hemodialysis (HD) devices and one of a competitor. 
See Case Study: Comparative Life Cycle Assessment of Baxter VIVI A Hemodialysis System . 
In 2013, Baxter also conducted an internal LCA of automated peritoneal dialysis (APD) using the company’s HomeChoice cycler, which 
performs treatment overnight. Peritoneal dialysis treats end -stage renal disease (ESRD), or kidney fai lure by removing waste, toxins and fluids 
from a patient’s kidneys inside their body using the body's natural filter called the peritoneal membrane. The study assessed  impacts across the 
life cycle, related to consumables (raw materials and manufacturing),  distribution to patients at home, cycler electricity use, patient travel for 
monthly doctor visits, and disposal of consumables. The results showed that consumables were the most significant contributor  to overall 
impacts, regardless of the prescription s cenario or the type of environmental impact assessed (carbon footprint, acidification, smog, or water 
pollution).  
During 2011, Gambro AB (which Baxter acquired in September 2013), completed an LCA of dialysis using the Prismaflex system fo r intensive 
care blood purification therapies. The study included different durations of treatment and found that the total life cycle GHG emi ssions were 15 
kg carbon dioxide equivalent (CO 2e) for 6 hours of dialysis treatment, 40 kg CO 2e for 22 hours, and 113 kg CO 2e for 72 hours. Consumables 
(fluid bag and set) and distribution were the key drivers, representing about 90% of overall impact. The Prismaflex machine i tself, disposal of 
consumables, and electricity use during treatment comprise the remaining 10%. Transport of  the filled fluid bags to the patient at the hospital 
was the single most impactful part of the process (representing about 40 -50% of overall GHG emissions). Work on initiatives such as 
transporting concentrates instead of solutions, decreasing materials u se in primary packaging, and reducing secondary packaging all have 
potential to improve environmental performance in this area.  
In 2010, Baxter used a streamlined LCA to compare two generations of dialyzer products1 to evaluate how material changes affected 
environmental performance. The company’s family of XENIUM+ dialyzers is 13 -22% lighter than earlier versions, which offers the potential for 
reduced fuel consumption in shipping and biohazard waste removal. XENIUM+ dialyzers also use approximately  one-fourth less cardboard in 
their packaging. Additionally, all materials used in XENIUM+ are free of bisphenol -A. In 2011, the product received certification from the Carbon 
Trust, which provides carbon footprint certification services. It was the second  medical product from any company to receive this certification 
(FLEXBUMIN was the first). See  Case Study: FLEXBUMIN Life Cycle Assessment . 
Baxter  is pursuing LCAs of several additional products during 2014.  
Baxter also collaborates with other companies to better understand and decrease the environmental impacts of products across the value 
chain. During 2013, Baxter began working on LCAs with two l arge pharmaceutical customers for which it provides contract manufacturing 
services. These analyses focus on the packaging and transport associated with these products – areas where Baxter has direct involvement. 
Preliminary results are expected in 2014, a nd will inform efforts to minimize product environmental footprint. Similarly, Baxter continues to 
engage its own suppliers in efforts to decrease overall impacts. See  Supply Chain – Sustainable Procurement  for more detail.  
Product Sustainability Trends  
Several trends continue to elevate the importance of product sustainability to Baxter's ongoing success:  
• Increasing customer requirements, expectations and concerns (see  Case Study: Engaging with Stakeholders on Product Environmental 
Performance ); 
• New and expanding regulatory requirem ents globally (see  Materials Use ); 
• Ongoing pressure from non -governmental organizations to improve product environmental and social performance.  
To better unders tand these trends, in 2012 Baxter commissioned a third party to conduct an in -depth analysis. This included benchmarking of 
peer companies, customers and key market leaders, as well as interviews with internal representatives from R&D, supply chain,  market ing, and 
other areas. The study also reviewed product sustainability tools to possibly integrate into the company's product stewardshi p program.  
Key observations included the following:  
• The two leading customer product sustainability issues are avoiding pr oducts containing materials of concern (such as PVC, DEHP and 
mercury) and reducing waste (packaging and disposables);  
• Customer focus on product sustainability varies significantly by region (with customers in Europe and California demonstratin g the strong est 
interest);  
• Companies have opportunities across the life cycle to influence and improve product sustainability performance, from identify ing customer 
requirements and educating R&D professionals to engaging suppliers and communicating product benefits t o customers; and  
• Companies across the healthcare industry are responding to similar pressures, with varying levels of focus and investment.  
Baxter continues to use these insights to inform ongoing enhancements of its Product Sustainability Program.  
1Dialyz ers are filters used during hemodialysis to elminiate waste products from the blood of people with end -stage kidney disease.  
Materials Use  
Materials use is a key driver of Baxter’s overall environmental footprint. Baxter estimates that in 2013 the greenhou se gas (GHG) emissions in 
Baxter's supply chain attributable to the company’s business equaled 966,000 metric tons carbon dioxide equivalent (CO 2e), 19% of Baxter's   
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/materials -use.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
13 
total GHG emissions footprint. This included raw materials extraction and processing as we ll as other activities such as the manufacture of 
components and supplies for Baxter. (See  GHG Emissions across t he Value Chain  for more detail).  
Therefore, decisions about materials – including the types used as well as the quantities – are an important focus for the company. Baxter 
carefully considers the potential impacts of the materials it uses in its products a nd packaging, and takes a disciplined approach to identifying 
materials for possible restriction.  
Using materials efficiently is also a priority. Plastic scrap from manufacturing is the company’s largest waste stream, so re ducing plastic waste 
and increasing recycling is essential. See  Case Study: Baxter Plastic Waste Reduction Program  for details. For its electronic products, Baxter 
works to maximize  product service life, reuse and recycling  as appropriate. This decreases the demand for virgin materials to produce new 
products. Baxter also works to optimize packaging, another significant use of materials, and implemented projects that red uced total packaging 
by nearly 200 metric tons in 2013, on an annualized basis1 (see Packaging  for details).  
Customers, governments and other stakeholders are also i ncreasingly focused on the materials and chemical substances used in products and 
packaging. With regard to medical products, key issues include health and safety and environmental impacts, especially at pro duct end -of-life. 
In some countries, legislation restricts the use of specific substances in products (see Materials Restrictions below). Customers are also 
interested in the use of recycled and recyclable materials, such as in packaging.  
Product Design  
Baxter's research and development and manufacturing  operations work with environmental, health and safety (EHS) specialists to ensure that 
new products meet robust environmental design principles, comply with environmental regulations and satisfy customer requirem ents. As part 
of the company's product deve lopment process, Baxter applies a Product Sustainability Review (PSR) to all new medical devices, assessing 
EHS impacts across the product life cycle. For example, new electrical and electronic devices under development are designed to meet the 
European Un ion (EU) Restriction on Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Directive guidelines wherever they are sold worldwide. All devices are 
screened for the presence of chemicals from the REACH (Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation and Restriction of Chemical s) Regul ation 
list of "Substances of Very High Concern" (SVHCs) and are considered for elimination.  
Supplementing PSR, Baxter also uses life cycle assessment to evaluate the environmental performance of its products and deter mine ways to 
reduce their environmental  footprints. This may include decreasing the presence of chemicals of concern and reducing life cycle water or 
energy consumption, carbon footprint and waste generation. See  Product Sustainability  for more detail.  
Materials Innovations  
To meet the preferences of some customers and address drug compatibility issues in specific clinical applications, Baxter con tinues to identify 
materials that meet the unique and evolving technical, design, regulatory, clinical and commercial requirements of individual  product lines and 
markets. The company’s research team, headed by world -leading experts in plastics technology, considers the dist inct characteristics of the 
solutions to be held in the containers, the performance characteristics required, scientific data supporting safe use, regula tory requirements, 
environmental impact, and other aspects.  
Materials Restrictions  
The EU RoHS Directiv e seeks to phase out the use of lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium and brominated flame retardants used in 
electronic products such as computers, televisions and mobile phones. This is principally aimed at minimizing negative enviro nmental impacts  
from these substances throughout the product life cycle, in particular at product end -of-life. 
Although exempt from the original Directive, medical devices will fall within the scope of the RoHS2 Directive beginning in J uly 2014. After that 
time, new medi cal devices that contain, subject to certain thresholds2, the substances listed above cannot be placed on the EU market. To 
comply with the directive, manufacturers must provide documentation demonstrating conformity of relevant products to the requ irement s. 
Furthermore, countries such as China, South Korea, Russia, Taiwan and some U.S. states such as California have already propos ed or  
enacted legislation similar to RoHS2. Baxter has implemented a global strategy to respond to these regulations worldwide, and requires that 
new electrical and electronic equipment under development meet RoHS and RoHS2 Directive restrictions.  
Baxter is also working to ensure it meets the EU REACH Regulation. Under the legislation, chemical suppliers, manufacturers o r importers  of 
more than one metric ton of a chemical substance in a given year must register the substance with the European Chemical Agenc y. The 
regulation expands significantly the number of substances that will require authorization for use, identifies SVHCs that  may face future 
restrictions, and requires companies to proactively inform customers about the presence3 of those substances in products. Baxter has 
registered all required substances and preparations following the regulation.   
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/materials -use.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -respon sibility/manufacturing.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
14 
Baxter's cross -functional REACH team oversees the company's ongoing response to this regulation and explores further opportunities to 
eliminate hazardous substances. More generally, the company assesses existing, new and emerging environmental regulations (in cludin g with 
regard to materials use) to identify and prioritize critical business issues; benchmarks against industry peers; and develops  positions and 
strategies to further improve its environmental performance.  
Reporting Materials Use  
Customers and government al regulations increasingly require companies to disclose information about materials and chemical substances 
used in products and manufacturing. Tracking and reporting this data is complex given the number and evolution of these stand ards, and since 
some products contain components from numerous suppliers worldwide.  
Baxter is implementing a global project to determine and assess the material chemical content of substances and parts purchas ed for use in 
Baxter's products. The company uses this to understand  what key chemicals of concern are present and to meet global regulations, such as the 
RoHS Directive and REACH Regulation. The company has identified the presence of SVHCs in some components and improved its 
understanding of which suppliers and components  may pose a higher risk in this regard. Ensuring compliance requires ongoing expansion of 
supplier engagement, working with new suppliers, and potentially modifying product designs.  
Baxter also focuses on due diligence, training and reporting related to ta ntalum, tin, tungsten and gold originating from the Democratic Republic 
of Congo or adjoining countries (known as “conflict minerals”). See  Supplier Standards  for mor e detail.  
In addition to materials restricted by regulations, the company is also gathering information about substances such as bisphe nol-A (BPA) and 
latex, which are of interest to some customers.  
1 These savings represent the total savings attributable to identified projects across the company, counted only for the first year the packaging 
innovation is implemented.  
2 As defined by the RoHS2 Directive, maximum concentrations allowed are 0.1% by weight of homogeneous material for all substanc es except 
for cadmium which is restricted to 0.01% by weight.  
3 As defined by REACH Regulation, “presence” equals at least 0.1% of the total product mass.  
Manufacturing  
Baxter manufactures its products at nearly 60 facilities in 28 countries worldwide. The company h as extensive environmental, health and safety 
(EHS) programs to minimize environmental impacts and ensure employee safety.  
Baxter generally requires third -party certification to the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001 Environmental M anagement 
System Standard for the company's manufacturing and research and development sites, and distribution sites with a capacity of  at least 10,000 
filled pallets or a workforce of 100 or more people. Sites that have achieved third -party ISO 14001 cert ification generally also pursue third -party 
Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001 certification, which helps improve a facility's health and saf ety programs. 
As of year -end 2013, 69 Baxter locations have met the requirements of ISO  14001 and are covered by Baxter's group certificate, and 58 
company locations were certified to OHSAS 18001. See  EHS Management Systems and Certifications  for detail s. 
In 2013, Baxter continued to improve its EHS performance across its facilities globally, including in manufacturing. See  Environment, Health 
and Safety  for more detail.  
Baxter also influences its suppliers' manufacturing and other operational practices through the company's Global Supplier Sus tainability 
Program as well as its Supplier Quality Standard and Ethics and Compliance Standards  for Baxter Suppliers. See  Supply Chain  for more detail 
about Baxter's activities in this area.  
Packaging  
Baxter works to decrease the environmental impact of packaging by reducin g the amount used and substituting for environmentally -preferable 
materials. The company implemented projects in 2013 that reduced total packaging on an annualized basis by nearly 200 metric tons. Total 
annualized savings since 2007 equals 5,350 metric ton s, exceeding Baxter’s goal to eliminate 5,000 metric tons of packaging material from 
produc ts sent to customers by 2015.1 
Asia Pacific  
In India, Baxter’s facilities completed several projects that saved nearly 66 metric tons of packaging material on an annuali zed basis. At its 
Manesar facility, the company had previously used 3 liter drain bags on exported peritoneal dialysis (PD) product s. By changing to 2.5 liter   
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/packaging.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility /product -use.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
15 
bags, the facility reduced 0.4 grams of packaging material per bag, saving 4.2 metric tons of plastic and $60,000 annually. F or the 500 mL 
bags, the site increased the packing factor from 24 bags per carton to 30 bags. This saved money while reducing packaging mater ial by nearly 
13 metric tons each year.  
In Waluj, India, the facility reduced the dimensions of its shipping cartons by several mil limeters per box. This modification saved nearly 49 
metric tons of cardboard on an annualized basis.  
Europe, Middle East, and Africa  
In Lublin, Poland, Baxter’s facility redesigned pallets from using four layer pads to two layer pads, reducing the amount o f material by 12.4 
metric tons on an annualized basis.  
In Grosotto, Italy, Baxter changed the size of the overwrap for two of its kidney dialysis products. The project reduced the width of the bags 
from 720 mm to 660 mm, saving more than one metric ton of packaging material on an annualized basis.  
The site in Marsa, Malta, reduced the pouch sizes on multiple products so that less material is used. This modification aimed  to save costs and 
1.5 metric tons of packaging material on an annualized basis.  
Latin A merica  
Baxter’s facility in Cali, Colombia, completed several packaging projects in 2013. One reduced the thickness in products used  in kidney dialysis, 
saving 46 metric tons of packaging on an annualized basis. The facility also optimized the plastic pack aging for solutions used in kidney 
dialysis, saving $300,000 and 70 metric tons of packaging material on an annual basis.  
1 This equals the total savings attributable to identified projects across the company, counted only for the first year after t he pack aging 
innovation was implemented.  
Product Use  
Advertising and Promotion  
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and other governmental agencies worldwide regulate the advertising and promotion of 
pharmaceuticals, medical devices and biologics. FDA's oversight includes print and broadcast advertising, websites, press releases, sales 
brochures, convention booths, and other promotional materials and activities.  
Baxter's Advertising and Promotion staff manage the company's compliance with promotional regu lations worldwide, reviewing marketing 
materials for accuracy and balance in terms of presentation of product risks and benefits. The company’s approach takes into account 
regulations and standards which vary by region:  
• Asia Pacific  - Baxter uses an electronic approval system that enables the company to comply with advertising and promotion codes, 
regulations and internal standards in 18 countries.  
• Canada  - Baxter’s advertising and promotion standards incorporate industry best practices following Phar maceutical Advertising Advisory 
Board (PAAB) guidelines and are reviewed for compliance to Health Canada regulations.  
• Europe  - Baxter ensures that marketing materials for distribution in the region comply with applicable laws and regulations as well as  with 
the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA) Code of Practice on the promotion of prescription -only 
medicines to, and interactions with, healthcare professionals . The compa ny reviews marketing materials at the pan -European level, as well 
as at the country level for compliance with national product licenses and local codes of practice. Baxter also adheres to the  EUCOMED 
Code of Ethical Business Practice  that covers medical devices.  
• Latin America  - Baxter applies standard review procedures for advertising and promotion to ensure compliance with regional  and local 
marketing promotion codes and regulations.  
• United States  - Baxter’s advertising and promotion standards for all business groups incorporate industry best practices and are reviewed 
rigorously for compliance with applicable U.S. laws and regulati ons including those promulgated by the FDA and any other appropriate 
regulator.  
See Priorities and Goals  for information about Baxter's progress against its goal to  continue to champion internal and industrywide ethical sales 
and marketing practices.  
See Access to Healthcare  for information about Baxter’s approach to increasing acces s to healthcare globally.   
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/product -responsibility/product -end-of-life.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserved  
16 
Product End -of-Life  
The responsible treatment of healthcare products after customer use is an increasingly important issue worldwide. The appropr iate approach 
varies by type of product, so Baxter has a range of initiatives. For example, some of the electronic medical devices Baxter s ells, such as renal 
automated peritoneal dialysis cyclers, are well suited to repair and refurbishment after the original customer has finished using them (see 
below). Many of the company’s other products, such as intravenous (IV) bags, cannot be reused due to regulatory, quality and safety reasons. 
However, they may be responsibly recycled to recover energ y and materials for  other uses.  
Electronic Products  
In some countries, Baxter leases most of its electronic medical products to customers, which helps ensure they will be return ed to Baxter after a 
set period of time. As appropriate, the company repairs and refurbishes those  products, which extends their useful life and decreases the 
environmental impacts of product disposal and new product manufacture.  
At times, reuse is not feasible, and regulations in many countries worldwide require responsible recycling. For example, the  European Union 
(EU) Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) Directive requires companies to arrange for the take -back of electronic products at 
end-of-life. This regulation impacts certain Baxter products in the EU such as dialysis machines, IV p umps and other electronic devices. In 
2013, approximately 30 metric tons of electronic products and batteries were recovered in the region on Baxter's behalf.  
In 2012, regulators enacted a revision of the WEEE Directive that sets recovery and recycling tar gets for non -implantable, electronic medical 
devices sold in the EU. Those target rates can vary by country and will increase over time. The updated Directive also establ ishes requirements 
related to transnational shipments of used electronic products for manufacturers selling those products in the region.  
Baxter’s  WEEE website  provides customers detailed information on WEEE and how to dispose of Baxter products in accordance with the 
Directive, in each of the EU Member States.  
When customers return products to Baxter that contain batteries, or when Baxter repairs those products on -site, Baxter sends the batteries to a 
recycler when feasible, or otherwise provides for responsible disposal.  
Disposa ble Medical Waste  
Baxter works with customers, industry peers, and recycling and disposal vendors to facilitate the recycling and responsible t reatment of 
disposable medical products. The company is a member of the Healthcare Plastics Recycling Council (HP RC), an alliance of global healthcare 
companies focused on the recycling of plastic products used in hospitals. Baxter was one of 11 companies involved with HPRC t o develop 
the Design Guidelines for Optimal Hospital Plastics Recycling , primarily intended for product designers and users of disposable medical 
devices.  
Through an HPRC initiative, Baxter participated in a value stream mapping study with Kaiser Permanente Los Angeles Medical Ce nter of a ll 
waste generated at the hospital, including pre -patient disposable medical waste. The team used Lean principles to understand the critical 
processes that contribute to waste generation and to establish a baseline of materials use and waste. Based on this  information, the group 
identified priority focus areas and plans for recycling program design, implementation, measurement and reporting. In 2013, H PRC shared 
findings through a Practice Greenhealth webinar, including insights about establishing plastics recycling programs in patient care settings, from 
planning through implementation.  
Baxter continues to seek other opportunities to partner with healthcare organizations, waste management and recycling firms t o test the 
economic and logistical feasibility o f more efficient management of wastes generated from Baxter products.  
For example, in early 2013 Baxter partnered with the Vinyl Council of Australia (VCA) to launch the VCA’s PVC Recovery in Hos pitals initiative 
in Australia.  See Case Study: Baxter Australia Partners in Hospital Waste Recycling Program  for more detail.  
Global Audit Program  
Baxter’s global audit program covers all regulated or medical waste recycling or disposal sites that the company uses for waste generated 
internally. As part of this program, before using a medical waste recycling or disposal vendor, trained Baxter auditors asses s the vendor for 
compliance wi th Baxter’s requirements. Repeat audits are then conducted at least once every four years. These audits examine all aspects o f 
operations, including site history, regulatory compliance, financial conditions, insurance, and other factors. Baxter has aud ited and approved 
more than 250 regulated or medical waste recycling or disposal sites through this program. In some cases, Baxter has either r ejected possible 
disposal sites through this process or required them to make changes to meet the company’s standards . 
  
  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/supply -chain/index.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve  
2 
 
Supply Chain  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baxter’s supply chain extends from producers of raw materials to end users of its products. Given its size, 
scope and complexity, Baxter’s efforts in this area play a central role in the company’s overall sustainability 
efforts. As a healthcare company, maintaining a safe, secure and reliable supply chain has a heightened 
importance as it is essential to ensuring patient safety.  
 
Approximately 35,000 supplie rs in more than 100 countries provide the goods, services and raw materials required by Baxter's operations 
worldwide. In 2013, Baxter's total supplier spending was approximately $7.3 billion. About 29% of this total spend was on "di rect" supplies - raw 
materials and components used in Baxter products. In general, Baxter buys most of its direct supplies from companies located ne ar its 
manufacturing operations. All other supplies are considered "indirect" - goods and services that support other aspects of th e company's 
operations.  
Baxter is committed to building and driving a sustainable supply chain. This is one of the company’s  nine sustainability priorities  and reflects 
the fa ct that Baxter’s suppliers represent a substantial portion of its  overall environmental impacts . For example, Bax ter estimates that the 
purchase of goods and services contributes approximately 20% of the company’s carbon footprint. Likewise, the transportation and distribution 
of raw materials to Baxter facilities and distribution to its customers contribute more tha n 11% to the company’s carbon footprint. Recognizing 
these impacts, Baxter helps suppliers understand and mitigate sustainability -related risk, improve environmental performance, minimize 
transport -related emissions, and promote human rights.  
The company e ngages its suppliers on key sustainability issues including energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, waste reduction, and the 
environmental impacts of raw materials used in Baxter’s products. Responsible sourcing is a focus area as well, including con flict mi nerals as 
well as other supply chain -related human rights issues. Lastly, Baxter strives to maintain a diverse supplier base that reflects the markets and 
communities in which the company operates.  
Baxter continues to pursue opportunities to improve efficiency in product transport and decrease related emissions. This includes adding 
greater efficiencies to the company’s distribution network, shifting to less energy -intensive modes of product transport and optimizing loads to 
increase vehicle utilizati on.  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/supply -chain/supplier -standards.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve  
3 
Supplier Stan dards  
Baxter’s Global Supplier Sustainability Program builds on several sustainability -related standards that govern the company’s relationships with 
suppliers. Baxter maintains a culture of strict compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations, an d the highest standards of ethics and 
business conduct. This extends to the company’s relationships with suppliers.  
The Supplier Quality Standard  and Ethics and Compliance Standards for Baxter Suppliers  provide a framework for consistent supplier 
evaluation and selection, and define p olicies and expectations for ethical behavior when doing business with Baxter. The company evaluates 
and approves suppliers before purchasing materials, components, products and select services.  
The Supplier Quality Standard addresses sustainability issues , including child labor, employment standards, waste and energy reduction, 
materials of concern and supply chain due diligence and ethics. Baxter's Ethics and Compliance Standards for Baxter Suppliers , available in 19 
languages and included with supplier a greements, also covers child labor, as well as confidential information, intellectual property, gifts and 
entertainment, anti -corruption, conflicts of interest, trade compliance, fair employment opportunities, and environment, health and safety.  
Baxter doe s not tolerate any form of forced labor or human trafficking and slavery in its operations or supplier base. The company take s a 
number of steps to ensure suppliers operate in an ethical manner and do not engage in these practices. As part of the company ’s annual 
supplier sustainability survey , Baxter asks questions to assess the human rights programs of its suppliers. (Also, see Baxter’s  statement  in 
response to the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010.)  
The company expects all suppliers to comply with these standards and expectations as well as all  laws governing purchasing, and may 
terminate agreements with suppliers that do not. To support these efforts, employees in Baxter's Purchasing and Supplier Mana gement (PSM) 
organization complete mandatory ethics training. All PSM employees that interact w ith suppliers must take an online ethics and compliance 
course as well as a live training session conducted by Baxter's Ethics and Compliance organization.  
To ensure Baxter maintains a continuous supply of vital raw materials used in its products, the company also asks key suppliers to provide 
emergency response plans describing how they will continue to provide vital supplies in the event of a catastrophe or other b usiness 
interruptions.  
Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative  
In 2013, Baxter joined the  Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI), a healthcare industry group working toward improving responsible 
procurement, risk mitigation and building shared suppliers’ capabilities in addressing sustainability risks and performance i mprovement. Baxter  
shares in the belief that it can have greater influence and achieve greater efficiencies by working with other members of the  healthcare industry 
to advance responsible procurement and sustainability.  
PSCI has developed its code and expectations covering ethics, labor, safety, environmental and management systems standards and 
expectations for suppliers to the healthcare industry. In 2013, two Baxter suppliers participated in the joint industry audit  program, one each in 
Mexico and India, of performance ag ainst these standards. PSCI’s independent auditor and audit committee monitor the audit results and 
subsequent supplier corrective and preventive actions implemented. The company continues to encourage its suppliers to partic ipate in the 
audit program and is sponsoring additional suppliers to audit through this program in 2014.  
Additionally, Baxter supports the PSCI supplier capability building committee, which aims to utilize risks and trends uncover ed in industry audits 
and other topics of interest to cre ate training and resources for suppliers to address the risks and advance responsible procurement. During the 
year, Baxter through PSCI provided introductory training to suppliers to educate on responsible procurement and the PSCI orga nization. PSCI 
will a lso consider additional supplier training opportunities, such as safety, that can be tailored to specific country or regional  needs.  
Product Material Regulatory Compliance  
Customers and governmental regulations increasingly require companies to disclose in formation about materials and chemical substances 
used in products and manufacturing. Tracking this information is complex since Baxter’s products, such as infusion pumps and dialysis 
machines, may contain components from numerous suppliers worldwide. Baxt er’s suppliers play a critical role in helping the company assess 
material compliance risk. The  Materials Use  section of this report provides more information ab out Baxter’s initiatives.  
The Dodd -Frank Act requires companies to file annual reports with the  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission beginning May 31, 2014, 
indicating if their products contain tantalum, tin, tungsten or gold originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo or adj oining countries 
(known as “conflict minerals”). See Baxter’s  Conflict Minerals Report . In 2013, in addition to conducting due diligence on its global suppliers 
consistent with the Organisation for Economic Co -operation and Develop ment (OECD) Guidelines for Conducting Due Diligence on Minerals  
from Conflict -Affected Areas, Baxter offered training and information regarding conflict minerals to its global suppliers that were conside red at 
potential risk for conflict minerals based on the raw materials purchased. The objectives were to educate them on current regulations and to 
enable them to provide Baxter the information it needs regarding the raw materials in its products. 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/suppl y-chain/supplier -standards.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/supply -chain/sustainable -procurement.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve  
4 
Baxter also updated its supplier quality standards, purchase order terms and conditions and other procurement practices to address conflict 
mineral risk in its supply chain. The company plans to offer additional training and guidance to its suppliers in 2014, along  with integrating the 
Gambro supplier base to confli ct mineral compliance in 2014.  
U.S. Customs -Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C -TPAT) Program  
As a manufacturer, Baxter is also a supplier to other companies, and works to ensure it meets the highest standards of  ethical standards and 
business conduct . Baxter’s efforts to establish a secure supply chain, such as through the Customs -Trade Partnership Against Terr orism 
Program (C -TPAT), for its raw materials and shipments of products to customers represents a significant step toward secure supply of lif e-
saving medical products. C -TPAT is a joint U.S. government -business initiative that builds cooperative relations hips to enhance U.S. border 
security, with a focus on strengthening security throughout the supply chain. As a supplier, Baxter has been recognized as a Tier III Partner in 
the U.S. C -TPAT program since 2011. Tier III is the highest level an importer can a chieve in the C -TPAT program. As of early 2014, only 3% of 
the nearly 11,000 program participants had achieved this status. Baxter's internal C -TPAT steering committee remains committed to monitoring 
and enhancing its supply chain practices and implementin g process improvements as needed.  
Additionally, the company was an early adopter of GS1 standards, which are used to uniquely distinguish all products, trade i tems, logistic 
units, locations, assets, and relationships in the supply chain —from manufacturer to consumers. See  Product Integrity  for more information.  
Sustainable Procurement  
Baxter considers several environmental and social factors as it integrates sustainable practices into procurement. The company collaborates 
with its suppliers to identify opportunities to improve environmental performance, such as reducing energy use, greenhouse ga s emissions and 
waste. Baxter also promotes human rights throughou t its supplier base . 
Requests for Proposal and Supplier Agreements  
Baxter considers price, quality, environmental criteria and other factors when selecting and evaluating its suppliers, to red uce the company's 
environmental impact while maintaining continu ity of supply and managing costs. To support these efforts, Baxter incorporates language 
related to sustainability in requests for proposal (RFP) and supplier contract templates. This reiterates Baxter's commitment  to sustainability 
and provides a means to  assess each supplier's ability to support Baxter's sustainability goals and conduct their business consistent with the 
company’s supplier standards. Sustainability related language is included in these documents in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Ch ile, China,  
Colombia, Mexico, New Zealand and the United States.  
Baxter's RFPs in those countries ask suppliers to provide:  
• Their sustainability policy and mission statement;  
• A description of company sustainability initiatives and outcomes;  
• A list of sustainability -related awards received;  
• Disclosure of environmental violations and fines for the past three years;  
• Details on purchasing from diverse suppliers, particularly related to products and services in the RFP (as applicable); and  
• Information about other initiatives that would support Baxter's sustainability goals.  
Baxter's standard supplier agreement requires U.S. -based suppliers to certify compliance with federal and state equal opportunity laws. 
Suppliers also commit to making good -faith efforts to cons ider small, minority -owned, women -owned, veteran -owned and other diverse 
suppliers when engaging their own suppliers. Baxter maintains a  diverse supplier base  that re flects the markets and communities in which the 
company operates and is looking to expand this program globally in 2014.  
The agreement also encourages suppliers to identify products and/or services for Baxter’s use with reduced environmental impa ct. Baxter  asks 
its suppliers to provide regular updates on their sustainability activities.  
Annual Supplier Sustainability Survey  
Each year, Baxter surveys its significant suppliers about their environmental, safety, ethics, human rights and other sustainability programs and 
progress. The company uses responses to identify opportunities for sharing best practices and collaborating to improve the pe rformance of 
both Baxter and its suppliers.  To encourage honest and accurate disclosure, suppliers’ responses do not affect whether Baxter will continue to 
work with them.  Approximately 70% of invited suppliers completed the survey. In previous years, Baxter focused on a similar group of supplier s 
in its survey participant list with some variations as suppliers changed. 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/supply -chain/sustainable -procurement.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve  
5 
This change in strategy was designed to:  
• Expand the reach of Baxter’s sustainability efforts;  
• Focus on suppliers of raw materials used in Baxter products;  
• Include suppliers that may  represent potential dependency risk; and  
• Broaden the geographical reach of the survey, including with suppliers in 
emerging markets.  
In 2014, Baxter will share each supplier’s responses with the Baxter purchasing 
employee responsible for the relationship.  This will enable the relationship 
manager to incorporate this information into regular supplier meetings to verify 
responses, discuss gaps and identify opportunities for further collaboration. 
Additionally, Baxter is using aggregated results to determine focus areas for 
additional training or collaboration. These efforts can be tailored by region. While 
suppliers are ultimately accountable for their performance, Baxter will engage and 
influence where it can to advance the sustainability of its supply base,  as an 
extension of its sourcing and operations sustainability and ultimately product 
responsibility.  
The graph below describes results by sustainability category and by region. While 
results generally improved between 2009 and 2012 (see table), data in 20 13 is 
much lower. Baxter attributes this decrease to its extension of the survey to new 
survey participants and believes it shows opportunities to enhance performance 
with additional suppliers. Baxter now has baseline information on more than 120 of 
its ke y suppliers (combined survey results from the four prior surveys plus the 2013 
survey responses).  
Baxter Supplier Sustainability Survey Results, 2009 -2013  
%Sustainable *  
 2009  2010  2011  2012  2013  
Environmental / Sustainability Program 
Example criteria:  Measures and reports 
environmental information  34% 30% 36% 40% 24% 
Reductions in Carbon Footprint Example 
criteria: Has a goal and program to reduce 
GHG emissions  46% 61% 60% 66% 36% 
Reduction in Natural Resources Use Example 
criteria: Has a goal and activities to reduce 
waste generation  61% 55% 63% 66% 40% 
Enhanced Product Stewardship Example 
criteria: Uses a product stewardship / life cycle 
approach  24% 35% 46% 48% 17% 
Protection of Human Rights Example criteria: 
Has ethical and legal employment practices for 
employees and suppliers -  (Added in 
2010)  88% 96% 90% 83% 
Overall  34% 44% 43% 51% 26% 
* Suppliers are considered sustainable in a category when they respond positively (“yes” or “in progress”) to at least 90% of the 
questions in that section.  
 
Recognizing Supplier Environmental Efforts Globally  
During 2013, Baxter’s e -Impact program continued to identify opportunities to collaborate wit h suppliers to improve environmental performance 
and to recognize results. To acknowledge successful projects, Baxter leaders award both the supplier and the relevant Baxter employees with 
an electronic certificate of appreciation.
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/supply -chain/sustainable -procurement.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/supply -chain/product -transport.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve  
6 
Although Baxter fell sho rt of its goal to collect 100 new project ideas, employees submitted 60 ideas for projects in 2013. Of these, 23 initiatives 
were successfully completed during the year, with combined benefits to Baxter and its suppliers summarized below. Collectivel y, the se projects 
reduced greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by an estimated 5,620 metric tons of CO 2e, which is equivalent to removing more than 1,100 cars 
from the road for that same period of time.1 
Combined Results of e -impact Projects   
 2010  2011  2012  2013  
Project Ideas Submitted  5 107 120 60 
Projects Completed  5 41 43 23 
Combined Cost Savings*  $231,000  $3,100,000  $4,100,000  $2,275,000  
Combined CO2e Emissions   
Reduction (metric tons)*  162 15,000  18,000  5,620  
*Metrics only include successfully completed projects completed in t he year indicated  
For example, based on an e -Impact submission, in 2013 Baxter purchased reusable plastic pallets to replace wooden pallets previously used 
by a supplier that delivers raw materials to one of Baxter’s manufacturing facilities. The supplier will use these new pallets in a “closed loop” 
system. Baxter is also exploring additional ways to partner with this supplier to reduce environmental impacts, such as a pos sible corrugate 
reuse program. Projects such as this bring t ogether a cross -functional team within Baxter to collaborate with the supplier.  
For additional information and examples of past projects recognized through Baxter’s e -Impact program, see past  case studies . 
1 Figures calculated using the Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator from the United States Environmental Protection Agency: 
http://www.epa.gov/cleanenergy/energy -resources/calculator.html.  
Product Transport  
Baxter t ransports large amounts of raw materials and more than 100 million cases of finished products each year throughout the compan y's 
global supply chain. In some instances, Baxter directly operates its product distribution system. For example, the company ma nages its own 
private fleet to home deliver Renal products in certain countries. In other cases, the company partners with third -party vendors and carriers.  
Baxter works to understand its environmental impacts from these activities, including by  estimating greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions  for 
upstream and downstream product transportation and distribution. The company th en pursues several approaches to improve performance in 
this area, including:  
• Optimizing the distribution network  
• Using intermodal transport  
• Increasing capacity utilization  
• Engaging in environmentally responsible partnerships  
• Reducing air freight product transportation  
Performance in 2013  
Baxter continued to refine a system to track GHG emissions from the company’s product transport worldwide. Baxter again worke d with United 
Postal Service, Inc. (UPS) and The Carbon Neutral Company to determine its worldwide transportation -related GHG emissions by truck, rail, air 
and ocean.  
Baxter’s total worldwide GHG emissions from product transport equaled 450,300 metric tons CO 2e in 20 13. Overall CO 2e impact efficiency was 
128 kilograms CO 2e per metric ton of products transported. By tracking this metric, Baxter aims to drive supply chain transportation decisions  
toward the most environmentally efficient modes for product shipments. For  example, despite Baxter’s efforts to reduce the air transportation of 
finished products in 2013, 1% of its product shipped by weight in the year resulted in 28% of the company’s transportation -related carbon 
footprint. 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/supply -chain/product -transport.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve  
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
* In accordance with the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard, total product transport emissions equaled 
473,300 metric tons CO 2e in 2013, including a portion of Baxter's Scope 3 Category 4: Upstream Transportation and Distribution emissions 
(450,300 metric tons CO 2e) and Baxter's Scope 3 Category 9: Downstream Transportation and Distribution emissions (23,000 metric tons 
CO 2e) 
** In this table, Baxter’s Asia Pacific region includes countries in Asia and Oceania; Latin America comprises countries in Lati n America and the 
Caribbean,  including Mexico; North America includes the United States, Canada, and Puerto Rico.  Worldwide Greenhouse  Gas Emissions from Product Transport, by Mode (metric tons CO 2e) 
Air 90,300  125,000  
Ocean  33,000  28,100  
Rail 11,900  9,900  
Truck  292,300  287,300  
Total  427,500  450,300  
   
Worldwide Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Product Transport, by Region (metric tons CO 2e)** 
Asia Pacific  50,400  68,300  
Latin America  46,400  73,800  
Europe, Middle East and Africa  143,400  105,500  
North America  187,300  202,700  
Total*  427,500  450,300   
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/supply -chain/product -transport.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve  
8 
Optimizing the Distribution Network  
To decrease transport distance and cost, Baxter identifies opportunities to ship products to customers from local manufacturi ng facilities when 
possible. For example, the company’s customers in Poland had previously rece ived products from Baxter’s manufacturing facilities in Western 
Europe via the company’s distribution facility in Belgium. In 2012, Baxter began to manufacture and distribute certain produc ts from its 
manufacturing facility in Poland directly to local cust omers, saving approximately 1,400 metric tons CO 2e. 
In its largest U.S. replenishment center, Baxter deployed a new application that assists transportation planners to maximize the total weight of a 
truckload. This application suggests an optimal product m ix and loading pattern to increase the total truckload weight, while not exceeding the 
legal weight limitations. Based on 2013 results, it is expected that deploying this technology will result in 900 fewer truck loads annually, or 
2,300 metric tons of CO 2e. Baxter plans to roll out the application to other replenishment centers over the next 18 months.  
In Europe, Baxter launched a program in 2013 to decrease the number of shipments made by air between replenishment centers in  Europe and 
Latin America. As a result, the company transported 64 metric tons of product to Chile and Colombia by ocean that would have otherwise been 
shipped by air.  
In 2013, Baxter began to deliver products from the company’s warehouse in Jundiaí, Brazil, directly to renal patients in  the interior of the state 
of São Paulo with itinerant routes avoiding passage through distribution freight centers. This reduced transport distance and  is expected to save 
$180,000 and more than 2 metric tons CO 2e per year.  
Intermodal Transport  
Different modes of transport - such as air, ocean, river barges, trucks and rail - have varying levels of environmental impact. This is largely 
because they use different amounts of fuel per metric ton of product shipped. Using intermodal transport, which combines m ultiple modes for a 
single shipment, can decrease costs and reduce GHG emissions.  
Baxter continues to use this approach in Europe and the United States when possible to shift toward more energy -efficient modes. For 
example, shipping containers are moved fr om manufacturing plants by truck and then transferred to more efficient and cost -effective rail or 
barge transport for longer distances, and then shifted back to truck for final delivery. Baxter used intermodal transport for  approximately 20.5% 
of its ship ments to replenish the company’s U.S distribution network in 2013.  
Intermodal Transport in the United States  
 2009  2010  2011  2012  2013  
Intermodal Loads  6,800  7,600  7,800  7,600  6,900  
Calculated Fuel 
Savings (liters)*  6,672,000  7,326,000  7,355,000  8,606,000  6,504,000  
Metric Tons of 
carbon dioxide 
equivalent (CO2e) 
Emissions Reduced  18,000  20,000  20,000  23,000  18,000  
* Fuel savings is the difference between the total calculated fuel use of intermodal shipments versus truck shipments on 
the same routes.  
Capacity Utilization  
Baxter also improves transport efficiency by increasing capacity utilization. For example, use of double -decker trucks to replenish distribution 
centers across Europe has enabled Baxter to transport loads in two trucks that have historically required three, reducing overall GHG 
emissions. Another way to advance capacity utilization is through cooperation agreements with others to share routes and truc ks to move 
combined loads most efficiently.  
In 2013, Baxter signed a contrac t with TRI -VIZOR to deploy its platform to consolidate Baxter’s transport routes in Europe. TRI -VIZOR acts as a 
neutral third -party to identify opportunities to collaborate with other companies to co -load shipments to reduce CO 2e emissions and costs. The 
success of this collaborative platform depends on the willingness of other shippers to “carpool” their cargo with Baxter’s. Ba xter is prepared to 
gradually open up a large part of its European transport network for this type of collaboration.  In 2013, Baxte r began a project to increase the 
capacity of its truck trailers from 24 pallets to 30 for the route between the company’s manufacturing and warehouse faciliti es in Brazil. This 
decreased the number of trips between the two facilities by approximately 700,  reducing GHG emissions by nearly 4 metric tons CO 2e annually.   
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/supply -chain/product -transport.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/supply -chain/supplier -diversity.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve  
9 
Environmentally Responsible Part nerships  
Baxter is one of a select number of companies that participate in the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) SmartWay® pr ogram both 
as both a Carrier and Shipper Partner. SmartWay is a partnership between the EPA and industry to reduce air pol lution and GHG emissions 
through cleaner, more fuel efficient product transport.  
Baxter became a  SmartWay Carrier Partner  in 2009 with its U.S. Renal truck fleet, and achieved the highest p ossible score of 1.25, 
recognizing the company’s "outstanding" commitment to using commercially available fuel -saving options and evaluating emerging 
technologies that help reduce its fleet’s environmental impact.  
Besides the company’s own Renal fleet, Bax ter works with shipping carriers to deliver other products. In 2011, Baxter’s operations in the United 
States also became a  SmartWay Partnership Shipper . Since 2009, the company requires al l of its carriers in the United States to be SmartWay 
members. In 2013, Baxter’s operations in Canada also became a SmartWay Partnership Shipper.  
See Case Study: Decreasing the Environmental Impact of Product Transportation  for additional examples of how Baxter has partnered with 
external groups in Canada, throughout Europe, and in the United States.  
Pallet Recovery and Waste Minimization Efforts  
Pallets are used to consolidate cases of products for transport and to move products within Baxter facilities. The company wo rks to use pallets 
more efficiently to save materials and cost. In 2013, Baxter started an initiative with one of its U.S. supplie rs to use reusable plastic pallets in a 
“closed loop” system, instead of using wooden ones.  
In other countries, including Brazil, Colombia and Mexico, teams work to optimize the used wooden pallets, and recycle them w hen feasible. In 
Cali, Colombia, Baxter  repurposed pallets used to deliver raw materials and other goods to the company to make them suitable for exporting 
finished products. This enabled the facility to reduce the number of wooden pallets it purchased by about 40% and reduced CO 2e by 38 metric  
tons in 2013.  
In Italy, Poland, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom, pallet recovery programs resulted in nearly 71,000 pallets being refu rbished for an 
additional reuse. In Germany, a recovery program for temperature controlled shipping boxes resulted i n approximately 450 of these boxes 
being reused a month in 2013.  
In 2013, Baxter also added improvements to several facilities to reduce the environmental impact of its warehouse and distrib ution facility. For 
example, the company added a dock tunnel and q uick door into its loading bay at its facility in Italy. This allows less energy to escape while 
Baxter loads product from the facility onto a truck for delivery. See the  GHG Emissions from Operations  section for additional activities.  
In Australia, Baxter’s Supply Chain organization runs a recovery program for its patients who use Baxter’s peritoneal dialysi s products at home. 
Patients who choose to participate in the voluntary program are able to recycle Baxter’s corrugated cartons, over -pouches and printed solution 
bags in bins provided by Baxter. Items are collected by Baxter drivers when they deliver new products to  the patients. Also see  Case Study: 
Baxter Australia Partners in Hospital Waste Recycling Program . 
Supplier Diversity  
Baxter works to deve lop mutually beneficial relationships with small and diverse suppliers, and strives to continue to increase the diversity of its 
supplier base. The company increased its spend with small suppliers in the United States and Puerto Rico to nearly $422 milli on in 2013, 15% 
more than in 2012.  
Small and diverse suppliers offer many advantages. Small suppliers are often more agile than larger companies and have an ent repreneurial 
outlook that can foster creativity and collaboration. Baxter’s patient and customer b ase is increasingly diverse, and using niche suppliers with 
proven processes and successes helps Baxter to better meet their needs. Focusing on supplier diversity also extends Baxter’s commitment to 
inclusion beyond the company’s workforce. Additionally, B axter’s use of local and diverse suppliers contributes to economic stability in local 
communities. Sourcing locally also helps Baxter reduce its transport -related environmental impacts.  
Baxter looks for ways to keep supplier diversity prominent throughout the supplier bidding and contracting process. For example, in addition to 
RFPs, Baxter includes supplier diversity information in its supplier agreement summary sheets approved by senior management. These 
checklists include questions such as: How many dive rse suppliers were included in the selection process? What classification were those 
suppliers? Was the selecte d supplier diverse? If not, why?  
Baxter also uses its  annual  supplier sustainability survey  and contracting process to assess the supplier diversity programs of its own 
suppliers.  
In 2014, Baxter became a member of the National Gay & Lesbian Chamber of Commerce (NGLCC). The NGLCC is the largest global not -for-
profit advocacy organization dedicated to expanding the economic opportunities and advancements of the lesbian, gay, bisexual  and 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/supply -chain/supplier -diversity.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve  
10 
transgender (LGBT) b usiness community. Additionally, the NGLCC supplier diversity initiative includes efforts to establish international supplier  
diversity programs.  
Baxter has sponsored the National Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC) for more than 20 years, and in  2006 joined the NMSDC 
Health Care Industry Group. In 2014, Baxter partnered with NMSDC to fund a scholarship to Northwestern University’s Kellogg S chool of 
Management for a certified minority -owned supplier, to help advance the capabilities of that compan y. In 2013, Baxter participated in the 
NMSDC annual meeting and the Chicago Business Opportunity Fair to meet new minority suppliers. In 2014, the Chicago MSDC reco gnized a 
Baxter purchasing manager for her efforts to promote small and diverse suppliers in  2013.  
The company is also a corporate partner of the Women’s Business Development Center. Baxter participates regularly in vendor f airs to 
promote supplier diversity, and maintains an  online database  that enables small and diverse businesses in the United States to share their 
capabilities with Baxter procurement representatives.  
Baxter is exploring possibilities to grow its supplier diversity program from a U.S. -based effort into a g lobal one. In 2014, Baxter signed the 
Charter of Diversity in Austria, an initiative by the Austrian Chamber of Commerce for private and public corporations, organ izations and 
institutions to publically disclose their engagement efforts for inclusion and d iversity networking in Austria. Regional teams at Baxter will meet 
during the year to plan additional opportunities to pursue and learn about supplier diversity in other parts of the world.  
2013 Supplier Diversity Performance  
In 2013, Baxter spent nearly $ 422 million with small businesses in the United States and Puerto Rico, approximately 16% of Baxter's total 
supplier spending of $2.6 billion in those markets. During the year, the company spent approximately $86 million with women -owned 
businesses and nea rly $37 million with minority -owned firms in the United States and Puerto Rico. Veteran -owned, service -disabled veteran -
owned, small disadvantaged and HUBZone -certified businesses represented approximately $10.3 million, $4.8 million, $3.9 million and $2.5  
million of Baxter's spending, respectively.  
Baxter Supplier Diversity Spending (Dollars in Millions)*  
 2009  2010  2011  2012  2013  
Small Businesses  $484  $491  $388  $366  $422  
Women -Owned 
Businesses  80 97 87.5 90 86 
Minority -Owned 
Businesses  20 34 36 34 37 
* United States and Puerto Rico. Fiscal year basis (October 1 through September 30 of the year noted). Accounts payable data ar e sent to a 
third party, which categorizes spending. Other categories include veteran -owned, service -disabled veteran -owned, sma ll disadvantaged and 
HUBZone -certified businesses. HUBZone is a United States Small Business Administration program for small companies that operate and 
employ people in Historically Underutilized Business Zones (HUBZones).  
   
  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/access -to-healthcare/product -donations.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/access -to-healthcare/baxter -international -foundation.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve  
2 
Access to Healthcare  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Improving access to healthcare is a global challenge. 
This issue is especially pressing in developing 
countries, where poor infrastructure, political 
instability, poverty, lack of education, restrictive 
regulatory environments, and inadequate availability 
and affordability of medical products can all limit 
access. Developing solutions requires cooperation 
among governments, non -governmental 
organizations, corporations, medical professionals 
and others.  
Baxter produces life -saving and life -sustaining 
products and therapies in the form of biologics, 
devices and specialized pharmaceuticals (such as 
intravenous solutions and anesthetic agents) that  are 
typically administered in a hospital or clinical setting. 
The company collaborates with government partners 
to expand access to quality care, while improving 
health outcomes and controlling costs. For example, 
Baxter partners with Hemobrás (Empresa Br asileira 
de Hemoderivados e Biotechnologia) in Brazil to 
provide people with hemophilia greater access to 
recombinant FVIII treatment. Learn more in 
the Advancing Public Health section . 
In every aspect of its business, Baxter respects and is committed to fostering human rights, dignity and the diverse contribu tions of all. 
Baxter’s  Global Human Rights Policy , which follows the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, details the company’s commitment in this area.  
Baxter works to expand access to its products and technologies while also protecting its intellectual property to support its  ongoing commercial 
success. P lease see Baxter’s  Annual Report Form 10 -K for more information. 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/access -to-healthcare/advancing -public -health.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve  
3 
 
Advancing Public Health  
Baxter is committed to efforts that suppo rt the availability of its treatments for the patients who need them, and engages in creative 
collaborations that are helping to advance public health.  
Through individual business units and corporate research and development (R&D), Baxter strives to provid e new products as well as training 
and education to meet the needs of current and future patients around the world, including through educational efforts aimed at increasing the 
capabilities of physicians and other healthcare professionals. The company ent ers into private -public partnerships to share best practices in 
treatment and to collaborate with governments, companies and organizations to ensure patients have access to therapy and prod ucts. 
Additionally, the company’s  business model innovation  initiatives strive to better serve the needs of patients at the lowest end of the economic 
spectrum. Examples of Baxter’s latest efforts include:  
Improving Care for Hemophilia Patients  
As a leading manufacturer of hemophilia products, Baxter is committed to improving patient treatment and care. The company al so works to 
provide medical professionals with educational opportunities to help pursue a bleed -free w orld. For example, Baxter improves access to care 
for hemophilia patients in the United States through its Bilingual Healthcare Educators program. This initiative offers peer -to-peer groups for 
Spanish -speaking hemophilia patients and their families, as we ll as educational events and resources on topics such as hemophilia basics, 
accessing care in the emergency room and keeping joints healthy. See  Case Study: Families To uched by Hemophilia Receive Much -Needed 
Support in Spanish . 
It is estimated that more than 10,000 people in Brazil are living with hemophilia A, and today the vast majority are treated with plasma -derived 
factor VIII therapy.1 To provide these patients wit h greater access to recombinant factor VIII (rFVIII) therapy, Baxter entered into an exclusive 
20-year partnership in 2012 with Hemobrás (Empresa Brasileira de Hemoderivados e Biotechnologia), a public company dedicated to creating 
greater self -sufficiency  in the production of life -saving therapies for people in Brazil with hemophilia, primary immunodeficiency disease, 
cirrhosis, severe burns, cancer and AIDS. Through this partnership, Baxter will be the sole supplier of Brazil's recombinant FVIII treatment  over 
the next 10 years while the companies collaborate on technology transfer to support development of local manufacturing capaci ty. In 2013, 
Baxter advanced phase one and two of the process —product importation and packaging. Last year, a new FVIII produ ct produced within the 
partnership, Hemo -8r, received regulatory approval. The rFVIII product began to be distributed to patients in all 27 states in the country, and  
more than 270 MIU of rFVIII was delivered to Hemobrás  
Expanding Access to Plasma -Derived Therapies  
In 2012, Baxter entered into a manufacturing services agreement with Stichting Sanquin Bloedvoorziening (Sanquin Blood Supply  Foundation), 
a not -for-profit organization responsible for the blood supply in the Netherlands, to provide additional plasma fractionation capacity in support of 
global demand for Baxter’s plasma -derived therapies. Baxter’s collaboration with Sanquin is an important step in addressing both the near and 
long-term needs of the patient community. Baxter will provide Sanquin with plasma, and pay Sanquin a fixed fee to process the plasma into 
bulk material for Baxter’s plasma derived therapies. The ten -year partnership is expected to result in up to 1.6 million liters of incremental 
additional plasma fractionation capacity annu ally to support global growth of plasma -derived treatments.  
Collaborating to Share Best Practices in Treating End Stage Renal Disease  
The program "Flying Angel," a partnership between Baxter China and the Chinese National Institute of Hospital Administrati on under the 
National Health and Family Planning Commission (former Ministry of Health), piloted in six provinces in China beginning in 20 12. See  Case 
Study: Improving Access to Renal Therapy in China . Throughout 2013, various kick off programs and meetings took place, and the pilot 
program is now being implemented in six provinces.  
Baxter collaborated with the Department of Nephrology, Kuala L umpur Hospital, to organize a roundtable meeting in October 2013 for a broad 
audience of government officials and officers of payment agencies and key nephrologists to discuss end stage renal disease (E SRD) therapy 
payment and reimbursement. The participan ts discussed the quality incentives and other measures that have benefited patient outcomes and 
cost-effectiveness and discussed the potential for Malaysia to work towards a policy that prefers peritoneal dialysis (PD).  
Gambro, a privately -held global medi cal technology company and leader in dialysis products based in Lund, Sweden, which Baxter acquired in 
late 2013, introduced a hemodialysis education program called Gambro Renal Academy in the central region of Malaysia in late 2012. Baxter 
continued to ro ll out the program to other regions in the country in 2013 following the Gambro acquisition. To date, five educational sessio ns 
promoting awareness of best practices and patient care in the area of hemodialysis treatment have been conducted, reaching mo re than 140 
nurses from 90 hemodialysis centers across the country.   
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/access -to-healthcare/advancing -public -health.htm l 
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve  
4 
Baxter is also constructing a new PD manufacturing facility in Thailand to support increased demand and access to care under Thailand’s “PD 
First” policy. This policy, in  place since 2008, encourages PD as the first -line dialysis treatment option, when appropriate, for new ESRD 
patients.  
In February 2013, Baxter announced it would provide St. Joseph’s Healthcare Hamilton, a hospital in South Central Ontario, Ca nada, with 
$250,000 over five years to provide chronic kidney disease patients with digital educational materials about treatment options . The program will 
include three phases:  
• Patient First, which focuses on pre -dialysis information and education on PD and self mana gement for home dialysis patients;  
• Pathways to Empowerment, during which dialysis nurses provide patients with health coaching and teach health management techn iques; 
and 
• Plan-Do-Act, during which Baxter and St. Joseph’s monitor and evaluate whether the to ols are meeting patient needs . 
Educating Anesthesiologists  
Improving education for anesthesiologists from developing countries is one of the greatest unmet needs in the field, accordin g to the World 
Federation of Societies of Anaesthesiologists (WFSA). Since 2008, through a unique partnership with the WFSA through the WFSA -Baxter 
Scholarship, Baxter has sponsored high potential anesthesiologist trainees from developing countries to attend the World Cong ress of 
Anaesthesiologists as well as major regional  anesthesiology congresses.  
Baxter also supported the development of a two -disc set of obstetric anesthesiology teaching materials. The compact discs, available to 
anesthesia providers in developing countries, contain articles, lectures and refresher cours es about safe and appropriate anesthetic 
management of obstetric patients. Since 2010, more than 3,000 compact discs have been distributed.  
Addressing Product Shortages  
The shortages that have occurred across the industry in recent years have involved myri ad factors, including raw material shortages, shifts in 
clinical practices, individual company decisions to discontinue specific medicines, supply disruptions from one or multiple m anufacturers which 
cause volatility in overall industry demand and supply, wholesaler and pharmacy inventory practices, changes in hospital and pharmacy 
contractual relationships with suppliers and wholesalers, adherence to protocols mandated by the FDA, natural disasters and m anufacturing 
challenges. Clearly, drug shortages are complex problems that require broad -based solutions from all stakeholders. Baxter is committed to 
finding solutions to the drug shortage issue that are balanced and involve stakeholders across the supply chain and distribut ion spectrum.  
Baxter has a longst anding commitment to increasing access to its treatments. Its extensive portfolio offers a number of options for clinicians 
and patients to address their supply needs through products or drugs that are similar but are available in a slightly differe nt form at (e.g. a 
premix intravenous formulation of a drug versus an injectable format that is in short supply). In fact, Baxter has remained t he one continual 
supplier for a number of critical products that have experienced supply disruption.  
In a number of inst ances over the last few years, Baxter has quickly responded to help minimize customer impact of competitive disruptions in 
supply of particular products and has sought to ensure patients continue to receive the life -sustaining therapies they needed. In som e 
situations, Baxter has increased production or temporarily shifted production capability to increase supply of products, has made adjustments in 
inventory and supply chain and prioritized clinical access to vital products on an equitable basis in order t o meet critical patient needs, has 
worked closely with regulatory authorities to seek approval for alternative products, and has collaborated with raw material suppliers to help 
address gaps that have occurred in supply.  
One example of this is the increase d demand for IV saline solutions that Baxter has experienced since August 2013, due in part to the 
decreased availability of such products from other suppliers. Baxter has been the one continuous supplier of IV solutions, an d has been making 
every effort t o help alleviate these supply constraints and meet the needs of acute and critical care settings and other customers.  
Baxter’s primary goal is to ensure that patients' needs for IV solutions are met. The company has taken a number of actions t o enable 
continued access to products needed for critical patient therapies:  
• Baxter has been manufacturing solutions at maximum capacity in amounts exceeding those of prior years and is making investmen ts to 
further increase supply in 2014. In 2013, Baxter increased production capacity of IV solutions by 3% year over year and is investing in 
capacity to deliver 9% growth in 2014.  
• The company is carefully managing inventory through a temporary allocation and fulfillment process in order to expedite produ ct for urgent 
need. Product is being deployed and sourced through the company's primary distribution centers in order to enable and support expedited 
shipping.  
• Additionally, as a company with global resources, Baxter is working with regulators to explore alternative opti ons within its supply chain to 
alleviate immediate, urgent needs . 
Baxter is committed to offering products that help to improve patient outcomes. Helping patients who need the company’s treat ments to access 
them is part of this commitme nt. 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/access -to-healthcare/advancing -public -health.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/access -to-healthcare/business -model -innovation.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve  
5 
We look forward to continuing to work with the FDA, government agencies and professional organizations and our customers to h elp in 
alleviating and coping with these disruptions.  
Expanding Research and Development Presence and Developing Partnerships  
Baxter’s presence in China and India also includes recent expansions of the company’s global research and development (R&D) fo otprint in 
those countries to accelerate growth and innovation and better serve patient needs in these fast -growing emerging market s. The increase in 
China and India healthcare spending between now and 2020 is projected to be 12% and 16% respectively, versus roughly 6% in th e United 
States.  
In 2013, the company constructed a new R&D facility in Suzhou, China, which now employs approxi mately 130 scientists and engineers, with 
plans to increase to 175 scientists by the end of 2014. Baxter also entered into new partnerships in India during the year, i ncluding an 
expanded collaboration with Syngene, an internationally reputed custom resear ch and manufacturing organization, to establish that firm’s 
Baxter -dedicated research center in Bangalore, India. The global research center there now has approximately 110 Syngene employees 
working solely on Baxter projects, with plans to increase to 150 scientists by the end of 2014. In addition, an ongoing collaboration with HCL, a 
global leader in IT and engineering services based in India, for R&D engineering services has grown from approximately 120 en gineers in 2013 
to 200 engineers. Through these R& D projects and additional partnerships, Baxter aims to develop products for local and global patient needs 
which can be scaled worldwide.  
1 Federação Brasileira de Hemofilia. Accessed on: 10 March 2011. Available at:  http://www.hemofiliabrasil.org.br  
Business Model Innovation  
Through the process of business model innovation, Baxter strives to develop products and therapies that address the unique, u nmet needs of 
patients around the world. In developing regions, these projects typically focus on factors such as poor infrastructure, poverty and lack of 
resources, which often limit access to healthcare. In addition, these new business models are designed with the intention of being reapplied to 
other emergi ng markets, thereby leveraging Baxter’s investment and expanding its impact more broadly to further reach patients worldwide.  
In 2013, Baxter continued to advance its 
business model innovation projects in China and 
India through innovation hubs that addre ss health 
needs in those emerging markets, such as 
hemophilia, renal disease and safe intravenous 
(IV) infusions. Read more about Baxter’s 
innovation hub leaders in these countries and 
their philosophy toward creating solutions for 
emerging markets in  this interview . 
Baxter is a member of the International Institute 
for Sustainable Enterprise and the International 
Partnership for Innovative Healthcar e Delivery 
(IPIHD), a coalition affiliated with the World 
Economic Forum. Through these memberships, 
the company learns from leaders in the field 
about addressing emerging markets and 
innovating to find healthcare solutions. In 2013, 
Baxter was a sponsor o f an IPIHD tour of India to 
study local emerging healthcare entrepreneurs 
and share best practices. Attending health 
system leaders observed operations and visited 
with innovators at four IPIHD health organizations 
in Bangalore and Hyderabad, learning abou t their 
approaches to pricing and operating models, 
technology, cost management, quality standards, 
organizational structure, attracting and retaining 
talent and community outreach.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/access -to-healthcare/baxter -international -foundation.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve \ 
6 
Product Donations  
Baxter donates products to help improve access to healthcare worldwide. In 2013, the 
company contributed more than $34 million in products, including through patient assistance 
programs, to assist people in need in 81 countries (see  map ). 
To maximize impact, Baxter donates items that recipient organizations have requested, such 
as intravenous (IV) sol utions, hemostatic sealants, pharmaceuticals and hemophilia 
products. The company’s Global Community Relations team manages the process, guided 
by Baxter's Global Product Donation Policy, which covers areas such as licensing, expiration 
and dating, account ing and tax laws, and export requirements. The team works with supply 
chain managers and others at Baxter to identify donation opportunities, matching available 
inventory to patient need.  
Baxter’s proactive, strategic approach to product donations improves  the efficiency and 
effectiveness of the process and facilitates timely, targeted support to communities in need. 
This approach also improves aid organizations’ ability to plan and respond to emergencies, 
since the donor organizations know in advance what to expect from Baxter.  
During 2013, Baxter continued to work with its humanitarian aid partners — AmeriCares and 
Direct Relief — to pre -position products for emergencies as well as ongoing needs in 
underserved communities. AmeriCares, an international disa ster-relief and humanitarian -aid 
organization, airlifts critical medicines, medical supplies and other aid to areas suffering 
humanitarian crises resulting from natural disasters or political strife. Direct Relief, a non -
profit, non -sectarian humanitarian -assistance organization, provides medical assistance to 
victims of poverty, disaster and civil unrest. Baxter collaborates with these organizations to 
develop a yearly product donation plan. This helps ensure that Baxter contributes most 
needed products to  stabilize supply in least developed and developing economies, and that the company’s products are first on the scene 
following disasters and tragedies.  
Baxter also began working with International Health Partners (IHP), an organization dedicated to improv ing access to healthcare and medicines 
in the developing world by partnering with companies in Europe to provide donated medical aid to organizations serving needy communities. 
Baxter began its collaboration with IHP to help facilitate product donations fr om its facilities in Europe. Baxter contributed products with long 
shelf lives to aid organizations including IHP in 2013 to provide organizations with a steady supply of medicines for ongoing  support as well as 
critical therapies to offer in times of cris is. For example:  
• Jordan  — Injured refugees fleeing from Iraq and Syria received reconstructive surgery with the help of donated bone graft product from  
Baxter, facilitated by International Health Partners.  
• Malawi  — Direct Relief shipped Baxter products to the Bwaila Fistula Center, which enabled doctors to perform surgeries to repair obstetric 
fistula in an estimated 275 women. See  Case Study: Changing Women’s Lives through Fistula Repair Surgery . 
• Nicaragua  — AmeriCares provided Light of the World Charities with Baxter product for a medical mission plastic surgery trip to the countr y. 
In one case, surgeons provided a 70 -year-old woman with corre ctive surgery for a cleft lip.  
Pre-positioned to Assist in Aftermath of Natural Disasters  
In 2013, pre -positioned Baxter products were on hand in countries that were impacted by, or still recovering from, natural disasters.  
In November 2013, Typhoon Haiyan  struck areas of the Philippines, killing thousands, displacing over four million people and causing 
widespread destruction. In response to the crisis, AmeriCares and Direct Relief provided Baxter’s on -hand pre -positioned products for use in 
relief efforts . Baxter supplemented these efforts by shipping additional needed products directly, including intravenous (IV) antibiotics a nd other 
IV solutions, lactated Ringer’s solution and sterile water. In addition, Baxter employees donated nearly $72,000 to Philip pine relief efforts, which 
The Baxter International Foundation matched. Aiming to help not only with short -term urgent needs, but also with ongoing rebuilding efforts, 
The Foundation also committed grant funds toward maternal, child and elder projects to l ong-term recovery projects in the Cebu Province.  
Torrential rains brought devastating flooding and landslides to Uttarkhand, India in June 2013, killing thousands of people —and leaving many 
more in need of medical assistance. AmeriCares India was one of the first organizations to respond, and used Baxter pre -positioned products in 
its relief efforts in the area —which included providing medical care to injured, developing medical camps, distributing care kits for mothers and 
children and implementing disas ter preparedness training for social health workers.  
Baxter’s prepositioned products also played a key role following other disasters and tragedies, such as the Oklahoma tornadoes during spring 
2013, and in Jordan throughout the year in response to Syrian refugees fleeing the conflict in that region.
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/access -to-healthcare/baxter -international -foundation.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve \ 
7 
Today, areas of Haiti are still impacted by the earthquake that struck in January 2010 and the subsequent chole ra outbreak. Baxter continues to 
partner with AmeriCares and Direct Relief to provide product donations to meet the ongoing health needs of local residents wh o continue to 
rebuild their lives in the aftermath of the disaster. Direct Relief has delivered nearly $5 million of Baxter products to Hai ti since the incident.  
World Federation of Hemophilia Global Alliance for Progress  
Baxter also facilitates access to he althcare through support of non -profit organizations such as the World Federation of Hemophilia, dedicated 
to improving the lives of people with hemophilia and related bleeding disorders. Baxter is the founding sponsor of the organi zation's Global 
Alliance  for Progress (GAP) program, which works to improve access to hemophilia diagnosis, care and treatment. 2013 marked the launch  of 
the second phase of the program as it enters its second decade. Since its launch in 2003, 27,000 patients have been newly dia gnosed with 
hemophilia in 21 GAP countries. The program has also enabled 11,800 patients, family members and national member association board 
members to be trained. The program has also led to the implementation of national hemophilia care programs in 18 c ountries, and the signing 
by ministries of health in 14 countries of memoranda of understanding that commit governments to a framework of hemophilia ca re and 
treatment delivery. There was also a cumulative increase in product supply of more than 2.9 billio n international units.  
To help ensure that underserved countries have sufficient factor replacement treatment, Baxter has donated more than 4.4 mill ion units of 
product over the past three years through the World Federation of Hemophilia, as well as its hu manitarian aid partners such as 
AmeriCares.1 See Advancing Public Health . 
Patient Assistance Programs  
Baxter maintains U.S. patient assistance programs t o help ensure continuous access to therapeutic products, for those who qualify, in the event 
of an insurance lapse.  
Additionally, Baxter is a long -time supporter of Patient Services, Inc. (PSI), a non -profit organization that provides financial assistance to 
patients with rare disorders, to help them afford health insurance. Baxter contributes to PSI programs that support patients with bleeding 
disorders, alpha -1 antitrypsin deficiency (AAT) and primary immune disease.  
Baxter continues to run the myPN Suppo rt program, a patient assistance program for U.S. citizens and legal residents in the United States that 
supports qualifying patients with continued access to certain parenteral nutrition (PN) drug therapies.  
Medical Missions  
When healthcare professionals travel overseas to provide charitable medical care to under -served populations, they often work in hospitals and 
clinics lacking modern surgical materials. Baxter's BioSurgery hemostatic and tissue sealant products as well as anesthesia p roducts are some 
of the most requested Baxter products in these situations. During 2013, AmeriCares sent more than 300 shipments with Baxter se alant 
products to 45 countries in support of medical missions.  
1 Global Alliance for Progress (GAP) 2012 Summary Report and Results . World Federation of Hemophilia. December 2012.  
The Baxter International Foundation  
The Baxter International Foundation's primary focus is increasing access to healthcare worldwide. In 2013, the Foundation don ated $2.8 million 
(excluding future commitments) in 10 countries. This included over $770,000 to more than 800 organizations through the Foundation's Dollars 
for Doers and Matching Gifts programs that support employees' philanthropic contributions. The majority of the grants resulte d from 
recommendations from Baxter facilities and targeted programs that improve the quality and accessibility of healthcare for the d isadvantaged 
and underserved in local communities.  
Grants awarded in 2013 helped meet local needs to increase access to dental care , mental health care, and other healthcare services for 
children, the uninsured, and the elderly. Recipients included the following:  
• Canada  - Heart House Hospice, in Mississauga, Ontario, will use funds to support the salary of a community education and we llness 
coordinator who will help address the physical, mental and emotional wellness of clients and caregivers.  
• Colombia  - First Step Big Step (formerly known as To Love is to Give Ministries Inc.), in Cali, will add a nurse practitioner to its sta ff to he lp 
support its primary healthcare and early childhood development programs.  
• India - Sightsavers International, in Delhi, will use funds to support multiple positions and field statisticians involved in year tw o of Vision 
Delhi, an initiative to strengthen primary eye care services in local area slums.  
• United Kingdom  - London -based National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children (NSPCC) will hire a full -time child services 
practitioner for its FEDUP program, which works with young people affected by parental substance abuse.  
• United States  - Ascencia, in Glendale, California, will use the grant to maintain a dedicated case manager to address the needs of the 
homeless and expedite appropriate placements and discharge plans following hospit al visits. 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/access -to-healthcare/baxter -international -foundation.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve \ 
8 
Watch a  video about Baxter International Foundation grants, or see a  complete list  of recent grants with additional detail.  
The Baxter International Foundation also sponsors three prize programs, among the most prestigious in healthcare, that recogn ize 
organizations and individuals who demonstrate excelle nce in community service and healthcare research.  
Foster G. McGaw Award:  Each year, The Baxter International Foundation, in conjunction with the American Hospital Association (AHA) and 
Health Research & Educational Trust, presents the $100,000  Foster G. McGaw Award  to a U.S. healthcare organization that delivers 
innovative programs to improve community health and well -being. See the  press release  about the 2013 recipient.  
William B. Graham Prize:  Working with the Association of University Programs in Health Administration, The Baxter International Foundation 
awards the  William B. Graham Prize for Health Services Research  to recognize major contributions to public health through innovative 
research. See the  press release  about the 2013 recipient.  
Episteme Award:  In conjunction with the Honor Society of Nursing – Sigma Theta Tau International – the Baxter Internation al Foundation 
bestows the  Episteme Award  every other year to a nurse who has contributed to nursing knowledge development, applic ation or discovery that 
produces sizable public benefit. See the  press release  about the 2013 recipient.  
The Foundation also has a long -standing commitment to the education of employees' children through scholarships. Each year, scholarship 
awards are presented on a merit basis. A neutral, third party agency evaluates applications on the basis of the students' aca demic, 
extracurricular and employme nt accomplishments. Recipients receive a $1,000 cash award during the academic year for which they are 
selected. Scholarships may be renewed for up to three additional years. In 2013, the Foundation awarded 80 new scholarships. Of those, 58 
students were f rom the United States and Puerto Rico, representing 14 states. The remaining 22 were from 15 different countries around the 
world. Additionally, in 2013, the program awarded 196 renewal scholarships. Of these, 152 students were in 22 states and Puer to Rico  and 44 
were from 17 different countries.   
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/community -support/index.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve  2 
 
Community Support  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baxter and its employees support communities worldwide through financial contributions, product donations, 
healthcare access initiatives and employee volunteerism. Increasing access to healthcare, promoting 
community service and supporting employee engagement are core principles of the company’s vision and 
culture.  
 
This section includes the following pages:  
• Education  and Critical  Community  Needs  - Baxter makes financial and in -kind donations to address needs such as improving education, 
protecting the environment and fostering patient safety.  
• Employee  Involvement  - The company encourages employees to volunteer time and expertise in their communities and matches 
employees' financial contributions to el igible U.S. charitable organizations through The Baxter International Foundation Matching Gifts 
Program.  
Baxter’s community support efforts benefit people in need worldwide, while strengthening the company's business. These initia tives improve 
community re lations, demonstrate Baxter's commitment and increase employee engagement. During 2013, Baxter and The Baxter International 
Foundation gave more than $64 million, including product donations, cash contributions and foundation grants . 
These efforts often co mplement Baxter’s initiatives to increase access to healthcare, including in emerging markets. See Access to Healthcare  
for more detail.  
The company has contributed more than $332 million over the last five years.  
Baxter and The Baxter International Foundation Charitable Giving* (Dollars in Millions)  
 2009  2010  2011  2012  2013  
Product Donations**  
Products/Patient 
Assistance Programs  $18.94  $48.09  $47.17  $28.02  $34.29  
Business and Facility Cash Donations***  
Within U.S.  $15.29  $14.66  $12.88  $12.31  $14.37  
Outside U.S.  15.11  12.56  16.05  13.10  13.12  
Subtotal  $30.40  $27.22  $28.93  $25.52  $27.49   
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/community -support/index.html    
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/community -support/critical -community -needs.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve  
3 
 
Education and Critical Community Needs  
Baxter helps communities  worldwide address a broad range of needs, in addition to improving access to healthcare. These include improving 
education, building awareness of chronic diseases, supporting youth services, and protecting the environment.  
To help address these needs, Bax ter's business units, functions and 
manufacturing facilities contributed more than $27 million worldwide 
in 2013, more than 40% of which was outside the United States.  
Education  
According to the 2012 Program for International Student 
Assessment (PISA) repo rt, released in late 2013, just 9% of 15 -year-
old students in the United States scored at proficiency level five or 
above in mathematics (based on levels one to six, with six the 
highest). Only 7% reached that level in science literacy, and 8% in 
math lite racy.1 
In a February 2012 report, The President’s Council of Advisors on 
Science and Technology stressed the importance of increasing the 
number of students obtaining undergraduate degrees in  STEM 
(Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics). The Council 
noted that to keep pace in science and technology, approximately 
one million more STEM professionals are needed over the next 
decade than the United States will produce at the current rate. 
Increasing the number of students receiving STEM degrees each 
year by around 34% would help achieve this goal.1 View list of 
countries.The Baxter International Foundation Contributions  
Within U.S. (including 
Puerto Rico)       
Grants  $1.10  $1.32  $1.65  $1.47  $0.76  
Matching Gifts and Dollars 
for Doers  0.76 0.74 0.71 0.65 0.77 
Scholarships  0.19 0.20 0.21 0.21 0.21 
Prize Programs  0.21 0.26 0.23 0.23 0.39 
Subtotal  2.24 2.47 2.83 2.56 2.13 
Outside the U.S.       
Grants  1.21 1.56 1.14 0.50 0.65 
Scholarships  0.06 0.07 0.07 0.07 0.07 
Subtotal  1.27 1.63 1.21 0.57 0.72 
Total Foundation 
Contributions  $3.51  $4.10  $4.04  $3.13  $2.85  
Total Charitable Giving  $52.85  $79.41  $80.14  $56.67  $64.63  
* Some subtotals vary slightly from sum of items in category, due to rounding.  
** Variations in Baxter's annual product donations are due to fluctuations in community needs, the need and volume of disaster r elief response, the regulatory environment, manufacturing 
processes, changes in product mix and marketing. The company identifies opportunities to donate and responds to community requests as appropriate. See  Product  Donations . 
*** Baxter and facility ca sh donations from outside the U.S. include some Gambro facilities.  
 
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/community -support/critical -community -needs.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve  
4 
 Advancing elementary and high school science and math education today sets the 
foundation for medical discoveries for years to come. As a science - and technolog y-based 
healthcare company, Baxter has a responsibility to help provide current students as well as 
future generations with opportunities to thrive in these areas. The company focuses on 
enhancing local science and math education programs to prepare studen ts for careers in 
science. Baxter Chairman and CEO Robert L. Parkinson was recently named one of the 100 
CEO Leaders in STEM by  STEMconnector® . 
In 2008, Baxter launched Science@Work: Expanding Minds with Real -World Science, a 
multi -year commitment to Chicago Public Schools (CPS) to support teacher training and 
student development in healthcare and biotechnology. In the 2012 -2013 school year, the 
program reached 21,000 students and 340 teachers through in -depth b iotechnology teacher 
training and module lesson plans. This increased the total to more than 83,000 students and 
1,000 teachers since 2008, representing 45%  of the 145 high schools throughout the district.  
Baxter also contributed to several other education al initiatives during the year, in Chicago 
and other locations. The company supported 45 events for teachers and students, including 
several enabling students to experience science first -hand through interactions with Baxter 
professionals. These included a  Baxter partnership with Northwestern University's Office of 
STEM Education Partnerships and the Biotechnology Center of Excellence at Lindblom Math 
and Science Academy in 2013 to provide teachers professional development workshops to 
help bring biotechnol ogy into the classroom. Teachers participated in hands -on labs at 
Northwestern and Lindblom and visited Baxter's labs at its Round Lake, Illinois facility to gain 
real-life context.  
Also during 2013, Baxter hosted 24 rising 
seniors from Chicago area high schools for a 
summer internship program. Students 
interned at Baxter's headquarters in specific 
job functions, participated in orientation 
sessions with senior executives, and learned 
about office culture and common workplace 
practices.  
Baxter’s educationa l efforts reach an 
ethnically and socioeconomically diverse 
range of students. For example, in 2011 -
2012 in the Chicago Public Schools district, 
where many of Baxter’s programs reach, 
91.2% of students were non -Caucasian, 
87% were from low -income families and 
12.2% were limited -English proficient.2 
Baxter’s Business Resource Groups (BRGs) 
have also played a part in educational 
outreach to these schools. For example, 
Latinos@Baxter was part of Noche de 
Ciencia at IHSCA in 2013, during which the 
group joined other companies and the 
Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers 
to participate in a panel for parents of 
students about careers in engineering, the benefits of a college degree, and college financial aid. Baxter’s African American  Leadership Council 
leads a magazine club at Muchin College Prep, where employees visit each month to facilitate lively discussions about topics fou nd in 
periodicals such as  Time,  Sports Illustrated  and Ebony.  Recently, volunteers have expanded the magazine club sessions to incl ude best 
practice workshops focused on college, internship and job interview skills.  
  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/community -support/critical -community -needs.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/community -support/employee -involvement.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve  
5 
Other education initiatives in 2013 included:  
FIRST® – Baxter is a founding member of  FIRST  (For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology), and the company 
supports local students in regional and national competitions. This organization engages students in mentor -based programs that 
build science, engineering and technology skills, inspire innovation, and foster self -confidence and communication and leadership 
abilities. Baxter has provided approximately $1.3 million in financial support to FIRST  since 1998, and sponsors two regional 
competitions, the FRC Midwest Regional and the debut of the Arkansas Regional last year. In 2013, Baxter supported nine local  
teams at varying levels of the organization –FIRST  LEGO Leagues and  FIRST  Robotics C ompetitions – in Arkansas, Illinois and New 
York in the United States, as well as Morelos, Mexico. Three of those teams went to the 2013 national competition. Baxter emp loyees 
in Canada also served as judges for the  FIRST  LEGO League Robotics Challenge in Mississauga, Ontario in 2013.  
Junior Achievement – During the 2012 -13 school year, nearly 370 Baxter volunteers in eight countries, including many of the 
company’s senior leaders, spent nearly more than 3,000 hours teaching financial literacy to more than 11,000 students.  
Street Law, Inc. – More than 20 Baxter lawyers, paralegals and other professionals created and delivered in -classroom lessons to 
Lindblom Math and Science Academy students on various legal topics in conjunction with Street Law, Inc., a non profit organization 
dedicated to teaching groups that are underrepresented in the legal field about law, democracy and human rights.  
In addition to Baxter’s efforts to expand access to healthcare through private -public partnerships, product donations and g rants, the company 
works within communities worldwide to help raise awareness around diseases and treatment options. These community education e fforts from 
2013 include:  
World Hemophilia Day – April 2013 marked the 23rd anniversary of World Hemophilia Day,  dedicated to promoting awareness of hemophilia 
and the availability of treatment for people living with the disease worldwide. Baxter offices around the world participated in local and regional 
grassroots events, online educational efforts and roundtable discussions, and contributed to India’s I Believe I Can Fly with My Wings of Belief 
scholarships for higher education for people with hemophilia. The company also continued to join forces with the World Federa tion of 
Hemophilia (WFH) to support Advocacy in  Action, a 6 -year initiative designed to help countries advocate for improved and sustained care for 
people with bleeding disorders.  
World PI Week – World PI Week, established in April 2011 with support from Baxter, raises the recognition and diagnosis of primary 
immunodeficiencies (PI).3 During the week -long event, organizers worldwide encourage improved PI awareness and diagnosis among medical 
professionals and the general public. Activities in 2013 such as educational seminars reinforced the message that  detecting the disease early 
can have an important impact on patients’ lives.  
World Kidney Day – In March 2013, Baxter organized several World Kidney Day activities around the world to raise awareness of the 
importance of kidneys to overall health, and to reduce the frequency and impact of kidney disease and its associated health problems 
worldwide. In China, Baxter created an education microsite on sohu.com, one of the most influential websites in the country, with information 
about chronic kidney disease,  tips for patients and patient stories. In India, Baxter organized patient awareness and education events at 45 
different centers across the country that educated patients and their families, nephrologists, nurses, health officials and p aramedics about 
different therapy options for end stage renal disease.  
1 The President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology report. February 2012:  http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/microsites/ostp/pcast -executive -report -
final_2 -13-12.pdf  
2 Chicago Public Schools website. “ Stats and Facts.”  http://www.cps.edu/about_cps/at -a-glance/pages/stats_and_facts.aspx  
3 Primary immunodeficiencies (PI) are a class of approximately 175 hereditary genetic  defects of the immune system that cause increased susceptibility to a wide range of 
infections, which are often chronic and can be serious. An estimated 10 million people suffer from PI worldwide.  
Employee Involvement  
Baxter employees contribute their sk ills and expertise to benefit their local communities. These efforts not only significantly help the recipient 
organizations in advancing their missions, but also provide employees with additional benefits. Through these experiences, em ployees gain 
opportu nities to grow personally, have meaningful interactions with community members, and develop leadership skills they can apply in all 
areas of their life, including their careers.  
Employee Volunteerism  
In 2013, nearly 6,000 Baxter employees volunteered more than 110,500 hours in their communities, addressing local concerns such as 
healthcare, the environment and education. Employee involvement takes many forms, such as volunteering at a school or blood d rive, ser ving 
at a hospital or food pantry, participating in community park clean -up days, or joining a local non -profit o rganization board or committee. 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/community -support/employee -involvement.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve d 
6 
Employees at each Baxter site select volunteer activities to undertake and organizations to support, 
as they c an best determine the most relev ant and highest impact projects.  
Employees track their efforts using Baxter's internal volunteerism website. Since 2008, the company 
has recognized employees who volunteer for 40 or more hours of community work during the ye ar, by 
contributing to an organization on their behalf. More than 575 Baxter employees volunteered at least 
40 hours in 2013.  
In the United States, The Baxter International Foundation Dollars for Doers program provides grants 
to qualified organizations whe re Baxter employees have actively volunteered for at least 20 hours 
within a 12 month period. Past recipients include hospitals and hospices, humane societies, 
emergency shelters, historical societies, volunteer fire departments, substance -abuse prevention  
services and youth service organizations. In 2013, the program provided 85 grants to 72 organizations 
for a total of $34,400. In 2012, Baxter Canada introduced its own Dollars for Doers program, which 
awards $1,000 grants to organizations selected by empl oyee volunteers. To qualify for the program, 
employees must volunteer a minimum of 16 hours through the year. The company then randomly 
selects employees from the pool of volunteers to have the opportunity to name their charity of choice 
to receive a grant . In 2013, Baxter Canada provided $25,000 in Dollars for Doers grants . *  
Baxter World Environment Week  
In 2013, Baxter sponsored its fifth annual "Baxter World Environment Week" to promote sustainable 
living in employees' communities. "Understanding Our I mpact" was the theme of the 2013 event, which again took place the first week of June 
to correspond with the United Nation’s World Environment Day. More than 120 Baxter sites worldwide sponsored events that prom oted earth -
friendly activities, including the  following:  
• Orth, Austria - Employees volunteered to clean the nearby Danube wetlands, in cooperation with the Danube -Auen National Park.  
• Cuernavaca, Mexico - Children attended an activity at the facility during which they learned about plants and how to g row them. Participants 
also made traditional Mexican toys from recycled materials.  
• Woodlands, Singapore - The facility organized a charity drive for donations of old clothing, toys and electronics for charity, and also 
encouraged a “car free day” during wh ich employees were encouraged to take public transportation to work.  
Employees also participated in volunteer activities related 
to biodiversity  and Baxter’s Science@Work: Expanding Minds with Real -
World Science  initiative.  
Making a Meaningful Difference Month  
Each October, Baxter employees  in the Asia Pacific region volunteer time 
and contribute funds to "Making a Meaningful Difference" month activities to 
improve the lives of people in local communities and care for the 
environment. Highlights from 2013 included:  
• Yunnan Province, China - Baxter volunteers traveled three hours by 
plane and eight hours by bus to a village school to donate a computer 
classroom, teach the students computer skills and play team -building 
games with them.  
• Gurgoan, India - Employees cooked items to sell at a compan y cook -off 
that raised money to purchase a refrigerator, furnishings and educational 
materials for a local orphanage.  
• Miyazaki, Japan - Local elementary school students were invited to 
Baxter’s Miyazaki facility to take part in a plant tour and environment al 
workshop with employees.  
• Hanoi, Vietnam - Employees volunteered at the Hoa Binh (Peace) 
Village to play games with child victims of Agent Orange and dioxin 
poisoning and to give gifts to the center.
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/community -support/employee -involvement.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve d 
7 
75 Days of Caring  
Employees in Canada gave back to the community during Baxter Canada’s volunteer event, “75 Days of Caring,” logging mor e than 5,000 
volunteer hours in 2013 with activities that included:  
• Providing computer training for employees and coordinating recreational activities for participants at Community Living Missi ssauga.  
• Preparing meals at the Wilkinson Shelter and organizing  food drives for the Mississauga Food Bank.  
• Helping Camp Dorset, a camp for children on hemodialysis therapy, prepare for the arrival of participating families.  
Employee Giving  
Baxter employees also contribute financial resources to worthy causes. The Baxt er International Foundation Matching Gift Program matches 
employee donations of $25 or more, up to $5,000, to non -profit, tax -exempt U.S. hospitals and healthcare agencies, schools and cultural 
organizations. In 2013, The Baxter International Foundation ma tched gifts to eligible organizations submitted by more than 1,400 U.S. based 
employees from 44 states. Gifts totaled more than $730,000, which doubled the impact to more than 740 charitable organization s. 
 
 
* U.S. Dollars for Doers is funded by The Baxter  International Foundation. Baxter Canada Dollars for Doers is funded by business and facility 
donations.  
  
  
 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/political -contribution -report.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve  2 
Public Policy  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Many legislative issues affect Baxter's business —reimbursement, tax, trade and a variety of regulatory 
concerns. Baxter's Government Affairs and Public Policy (GAPP) team works with lawmakers, governments 
and policymakers worldwide to support patient access to the company's life -saving therapies, increase 
understanding of the benefits of those therapies, address barriers to care and explore possible solut ions. This 
involves engaging directly with governments to improve the regulatory environment and reimbursement 
structure for Baxter's therapies, and collaborating with clinicians, non -governmental organizations and patient 
groups to increase access to care  for millions of patients worldwide.  
 
The Public Policy Committee of Baxter's Board of Directors oversees the company’s government affairs activities. The committe e reviews 
Baxter's political contributions, positions on pending legislation and political ad vocacy efforts. For additional information, see  Baxter's 2013 
Political Contributions Report . This details contributions made in 2013 by Baxter and Baxter 's Political Action Committee, BAXPAC. It also 
includes information about the company’s membership in certain trade and industry groups.  
Recognizing Baxter’s leadership in this area, the company was ranked as the Healthcare Equipment and Supplies sector le ader for political 
disclosure, transparency and accountability in the  2013 CPA -Zicklin Index of Corporate Political Accountability and Disclosure . 
Healthcare Ref orm 
Healthcare reform efforts are underway in the United States to improve efficiency, stem rising costs, address disparities in care and expand 
access. New care delivery and payment models are designed to provide better outcomes at reduced cost. Several t rends characterize this shift:  
• Decisions increasingly involve input not only from practitioners, but also from hospital administrators and other team member s. 
• Data plays an increasingly important role, impacting reporting requirements and hospital payments . 
• Incentive and penalty programs established by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid are expected to impact hospital payments 
significantly.  
• Commercial payers are also ramping up use of pay -for-performance systems. 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/index.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve  
3 
Baxter continually assesses how its portfolio is impacted by related programs —including the Hospital Readmiss ions Reduction Program, 
Meaningful Use, Value Based Purchasing Program, and soon, the Hospital Acquired Condition Program —and how the company can provide 
products that best meet these program requirements and deliver meaningful outcomes for patients. To be tter articulate the value proposition of 
its products, Baxter collects product data to demonstrate better patient outcomes and cost effectiveness; examines how its pr oducts meet the 
quality metrics associated with the payment programs; and works to better understand the concerns of hospitals and trends in delivery reform 
that could potentially impact the use of the company’s products.  
Baxter also focuses on the following areas related to healthcare reform:  
Advocating for Patient Access within Insurance Exch anges  
Health insurance exchanges —electronic platforms implemented by the federal and state governments, which individuals and small employers 
can use to identify and compare private health plans or enroll in public health coverage —are mandated by the United States’ 2010 Patient 
Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA). To support its patients with rare diseases, Baxter advocates for health insurance e xchanges to:  
• Include an adequate number of in -network providers that address rare conditions;  
• Allow pat ients with extremely rare diseases access to out -of-network providers without incurring excessive costs;  
• Provide access to all medically necessary therapies and healthcare providers;  
• Ensure cost sharing does not discriminate or unfairly target any patient or rare disease group;  
• Provide access to third party cost sharing (premium, co -pay and co -insurance) assistance and due process; and  
• Provide transparency surrounding utilization management, medical necessity determinations, appeals and grievances.  
Adhering  to the Physician Payments Sunshine Act  
Baxter is responding to the federal requirements mandated by the Physician Payment Sunshine Act. See  Ethic s and Compliance . 
Supporting the Implementation of the Food and Drug Administration Safety and 
Innovation Act  
Every five years, the United States Congress must reauthorize the law associated with user fees paid by manufacturers to supp ort staff 
positions a t the FDA. In 2012, Baxter supported passage of the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act to ensure the time ly 
review of new drug, device, biologic, biosimilar, and generic applications before the FDA, allowing patients to receive timel y access to new and 
innovative therapies. The user fee law aims to provide a predictable review process that fosters innovation and helps ensure that Baxter’s 
patients continue to receive new therapies.  
Providing Internet Resources to Patients and Customers  
To assist patients and customers as healthcare reform is implemented at the state level, Baxter created an Internet tool that allows 24 -7 access 
to state activities on the Affordable Care Act. It is available at the following Baxter websites, which provide information for patients living with 
hemophilia and end -stage renal disease:  
• Hemophilia  
• End Stage Renal Disease  
Access to Healthcare  
Medicare IVIG Access Act  
Roughly 10,000 Medicare beneficiaries in the United States have been diagnosed with one of approximately 150 primary immunode ficiency 
diseases (PID). These condit ions prevent patients from fighting infections, making the body highly susceptible to a range of conditions. 
Intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) therapy is vital in treating patients with PID. For many people with this condition, home t reatment is 
appropriat e due to the increased risk of infection associated with receiving care in other health care settings.  
In 2003, Congress changed the law to allow Medicare beneficiaries with PID to receive IVIG treatments at home. However, the l aw failed to 
include reimbur sement for the necessary nursing services and supplies. In May 2011, Representatives Kevin Brady (Republican, Texas) and 
Doris Matsui (Democrat, California) and Senators John Kerry (Democrat, Massachusetts) and Lamar Alexander (Republican, Tennes see) 
introduced companion legislation to fix this problem —H.R. 1845/S. 960, the Medicare IVIG Access Act. Baxter supported this bill, and lobbied 
for its enactment throughout 2012.  
On January 10, 2013, the Medicare IVIG Access Act was signed into law, creating a three -year demonstration program to provide Medicare 
reimbursement for nursing services and supplies as sociated with home infusion of IVIG therapy for up to 4,000 PID patients. 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/index.html  
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/political -contribution -report.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve  
4 
Beginning in early 2013, the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation (CMI) began development of the demonstration program . 
Throughout the year, CMI met with stakeholders —includin g Baxter —to hear suggestions on how to design the program to ensure that people 
with PID have access and that the benefits meet their needs.  
CMI has indicated that they plan to launch the demonstration program during the fall of 2014. At the completion of the three -year demonstration 
program, CMI will publish their findings, including any cost savings, associated with providing nursing services and supplies  associated with 
home infusion of IVIG. Following release of the findings, Baxter will work with patie nt groups to lobby Congress for a permanent benefit for 
home infusion of IVIG.  
Educating Health Policy Makers in Washington, D.C. about the Benefits of Home Dialysis  
Baxter participated in the 2013 National Summit on Home Dialysis Policy in Washington, D.C ., following the company’s support of the inaugural 
summit the year prior, to further the dialogue about the benefits of home dialysis for those with end stage renal disease. Ho me dialysis, 
including peritoneal dialysis and home hemodialysis, are alternati ves to in -center treatment, which generally requires patients to visit a clinic 
three times a week. Despite the widely accepted and well -documented benefits of home dialysis —including improved outcomes associated with 
more consistent treatments, enhanced p atient satisfaction, improved quality of life and lower costs compared to in -center treatment —only about 
10% of U.S. dialysis patients received treatment at home in 2012.1 
One outcome of the inaugural summit was the launch of the Alliance for Home Dialysis , of which Baxter is a member. It was created as a way 
for the organizations involved to continue their advocacy efforts, develop policy recommendations, and advance thought leader ship surrounding 
home dialysis. During 2013, the Alliance discussed various topics with the Centers for Medicaid and Medicare Services (CMS), including the 
ESRD Quality Incentive Program and related quality measures, and the ESRD Payment Regulations and Notices (PPS) and Quality I ncentive 
Program (QIP) Rule. As a result, the CMS f inalized a 50 percent increase in the home training add -on adjustment for both PD and HHD training 
treatments beginning in 2014. The Alliance also had conversations with the FDA about issues related to manufacturers who deve lop nocturnal 
home hemodialysis devices and updating the approval process for these devices to better reflect patient preferences.  
Engaging in Outreach on Behalf of Diverse Populations  
In April 2013, Baxter’s GAPP team held its first annual Minority Health Month Fly -In in Washington, D.C . Members of Baxter’s business 
resource groups (BRGs), including the African -American Leadership Council, Asian Leadership Network and Latinos@Baxter, underscored the 
importance of developing strong public policies in the healthcare and medical device sect ors so they could learn about specific legislative 
issues that affect Baxter. The team also met with several members of Congress and their staff to discuss Medicare drug reimbu rsement; low 
cost, low margin product exemptions; the medical device tax, and th e disproportionately low representation of minorities on home dialysis.  
During the visit, Baxter representatives attended the 10th Annual National Summit on Health Disparities, which brought together members of 
Congress, federal employees, clinicians, and senior industry and advocacy group representatives to identify integrated solutions to health 
inequities that address the healthcare disparities that continue to affect racial and ethnic minorities.  
Advocacy efforts continued later that year when represent atives from Baxter, including from the company’s African -American Leadership 
Council, attended the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation Annual Legislative Conference in September. The Baxter team conne cted with 
members of Congress and played an active rol e in key events. During the Congressional Black Caucus Community Breakfast and Health Fair, 
the Baxter team provided informational materials about renal therapy options to attendees. Baxter director of marketing Dana Mendenhall also 
participated on a panel , highlighting Baxter’s commitment to diverse communities and presenting Baxter research on cultural issues and 
potential barriers that impact PD adoption rates in African American patients.  
Baxter employees also participated in advocacy events involving t he Latino community. The company’s GAPP team and members of 
Latinos@Baxter attended the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials Annual Conference as well as the N ational Council 
of La Raza Annual Conference. Baxter representatives al so attended the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute Public Policy Conference. 
These events examined critical policy areas affecting the Latino community.  
1 Neumann, Mark. "Some bright spots for home dialysis." Nephrology News & Issues. (July 13, 2012).  Available at:  http://www.nephrology -
digital.com/201208/201208/5/0  
2013 Political Contributions Report  
Baxter respects local po litical customs and obeys all laws about engaging in the political process everywhere it operates. The company’s Code 
of Conduct, which sets forth the core principles that govern Baxter’s business practices, contains a section on Public Affair s and Politic al 
Activities, including rules governing participation in the political process . 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/political -contribution -report.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve  5 
The Public Policy Committee of Baxter's Board of Directors oversees Baxter's government affairs program and Political Action Committee, 
BAXPAC. Each year it reviews the compan y’s political contributions, positions on pending legislation, and other political advocacy initiatives.  
This Political Contributions Report provides information about corporate contributions made in the United States by Baxter as  well as 
contributions mad e by BAXPAC. It also contains information about Baxter's lobbying expenses and membership in trade and industry groups.  
• Corpo rate Contributions  
• Baxter Political Action Committee  
• Lobbying Expenses  
• Certain Memberships  
Corporate Contributions  
The U.S. Supreme Court decision in  the Citizens United case in 2010 increased the ability of corporations to make independent political 
expenditures related to federal elections (although not to make direct contributions to federal candidates). However, Baxter has not made 
independent poli tical contributions of this type, and does not anticipate that the decision will impact how the company contributes or engage s in 
the political process. Baxter strives to make contributions to candidates who champion and protect the legislative interests of the company, its 
employees and patients, without regard for the private political preferences of Baxter’s officers and executives. In 2013, th e company did not 
participate in any ballot measures. It is not generally Baxter’s practice to do so.  
In the Uni ted States, Baxter contributed $32,000 to state candidates in 2013 after approval from the BAXPAC Board. U.S. law does not al low 
companies to make contributions to federal candidates. As discussed below, contributions to federal candidates may be made by  BAXPAC.  
Baxter’s Corporate Contributions to U.S. State Candidates, 2013  
Member  District  Party  Amount  
Arkansas  
Bledsoe, Cecile  S3 R $500  
Dismang, Jonathan  S28 R $500  
Ferguson, Deborah  H51 D $250  
Irvin, Missy  S18 R $500  
Key, Johnny  S17 R $500  
Leding,  Greg  H86 R $250  
Linck, Kelley  H99 R $250  
Magie, Steve  H72 D $250  
Florida  
Bean, Aaron  S4 R $500  
Diaz, Jose  H116  R $500  
Garcia, Rene  S38 R $500  
Hudson, Matt  H80 R $500  
Negron, Jose  S32 R $500  
Olivia, Jose  H110  R $500  
Georgia  
Channell, Mickey  H120  R $1,000  
Cooper, Sharon  H43 R $250  
Holt, Doug  H112  R $250  
Jeffares, Rick  S17 R $250   
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/political -contribution -report.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve  6 
Jones, Burt  S25 R $250  
Mullis, Jeff  S53 R $250  
Parrich, Butch  H158  R $250  
Ralston, David  H7 R $2,500  
Shafer, David  S48 R $2,500  
Unterman, Rene  S45 R $250  
Williamson, Bruce  H111  R $250  
Illinois  
Althoff, Pamela J.  S32 R $250  
Bellock, Patricia  H47 R $350  
Bradley, John  H117  D $250  
Bush, Melinda  S31 D $250  
Clayborne, James  S57 D $500  
Cross, Tom  HD84  R $1,000  
Cullerton, John J.  S6 D $1,500  
Currie, Barbara  H25 D $500  
Drury, Scott  H58 D $250  
Duffy, Dan  S26 R $250  
Durkin, Jim  H82 R $250  
Feigenholtz, Sara  H12 D $250  
Gabel, Robyn  H18 D $500  
Harmon, Don  SD39  D $500  
Harris, Gregory  H13 D $300  
Hernandez, Elizabeth  H24 D $250  
Hunter, Mattie  SD33  D $250  
Hutchinson, Toi  S40 D $250  
Lang, Lou  H16 D $250  
Link, Terry  S30 D $500  
Madigan, Michael J.  H22 D $1,500  
Mautino, Frank  H76 D $250  
Mayfield, Rita  H60 D $250  
McSweeney, David  H52 R $250  
Morrison, Julie  S29 D $250  
Munoz, Antonio  S1 D $250  
Murphy, Matt  S27 R $500  
Pritchard, Robert  H70 R $250  
Radogno, Christine  S41 R $1,000   
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/political -contribution -report.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve  7 
Sente, Carol  H59 D $250  
Steans, Heather  S7 D $250  
Sullivan, Ed  H51 R $250  
Syverson, Dave  S35 R $250  
Trotter, Donne E.  S17 D $350  
Turner, Arthur  H9 D $250  
Wheeler,  Barbara  H64 R $250  
Yingling, Sam  H62 D $250  
Mississippi  
Bryant, Phil  Governor  R $500  
Burton, Terry  S31 R $500  
Howell, Bobby  H46 R $500  
Kirby, Dean  S30 R $500  
Mims, Sam  H97 R $500  
Reeves, Tate  Lt. Governor  R $500  
Total    $32,000  
Baxter's Corporate Contributions to 501(C)(4) and 527 Organizations, 2013  
Membership in 501(c)(4) and 527 organizations is another avenue through which Baxter engages to advance the company's interes ts and 
those of its patients.  
Baxter contributed to the following 501(c)(4) organizations during 2013.  
 
The Ripon Society  $25,000  
Third Way  $32,500  
Total*  $57,500  
 
Baxter contributed to the following 527 organizations during 2013.  
 
Democratic Governors Association  $10,000  
Republican Governors Association  $25,000  
National Governors Association  $20,000  
Total*  $55,000  
* Only includes organizations for which GAPP pays the annual dues.  
Baxter Political Action Committee  
Eligible U.S. employees can make voluntary individual contributions to Baxter's Political Action Committee, BAXPAC, to suppor t U.S. federal 
and state candidates. BAXPAC is overseen by the BAXPAC chairman, vice chair, and treasurer/secretary, as well as its  Contribution Advisory 
Board. All BAXPAC officers and members of the Contribution Advisory Board are Baxter employees from various business groups, regions and 
franchises. BAXPAC operates in accordance with all relevant federal and state laws. More informa tion about these laws and regulations is 
available on the Federal Election Commission website . BAXPAC contributes to candidates who champion and protect the legislative interests of 
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/political -contribution -report.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve  
8 
Baxter, its employees and its patients . Contributions by BAXPAC are made without regard for the private political preferences of Baxter’s 
officers and executives. BAXPAC made $137,750 in contributions in 2013.  
BAXPAC Contributions to U.S. Federal and State Candidates, 2013  
Member  Federal 
House  Federal Senate  State Candidate  District  Party  Amount  
Arkansas  
Pryor, Mark 
Lunsford   X  AR D $1,000  
California  
Bass, Karen  X   CA37  D $2,500  
Brownley, Julia  X   CA26  D $1,000  
Eshoo, Anna  X   CA18  D $1,000  
Matsui, Doris  X   CA6 D $3,500  
Schiff,  Adam  X   CA28  D $2,000  
Swalwell, Eric  X   CA15  D $1,000  
Colorado  
DeGette, Diana  X   CO1 D $3,500  
Georgia  
Johnson, Henry  X   GA4 D $1,000  
Illinois  
Davis, Danny  X   IL7 D $2,000  
Duckworth, 
Tammy  X   IL8 D $1,000  
Roskam, Peter  X   IL6 R $2,500  
Schneider, 
Bradley  X   IL10 D $1,000  
Maryland  
Hoyer, Steny  X   MD5  D $1,000  
Michigan  
Camp, Dave  X   MI4 R $3,500  
Dingell. John  X   MI12  D $1,000  
Upton, Frederick  X   MI6 R $1,000  
Minnesota  
Walz, Timothy  X   MN1  D $1,000  
Mississippi  
Thompson, Bennie  X   MS2 D $1,500  
New Jersey  
Pascrell, William  X   NJ9 D $1,000  
New York  
Maziarz, George    X NY62  R $750   
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/political -contribution -report.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve  9 
North Carolina  
Butterfield, G.K.  X   NC1 D $1,000  
Hagan, Kay   X  NC D $2,000  
Meadows, Mark  X   NC11  R $1,000  
Ohio  
Amstutz, Ron    X OH3 R $1,000  
Boehner, John  X   OH8 R $5,000  
Eklund, John    X OH18  R $500  
Faber, Keith    X OH12  R $1,000  
Grossman, Cheryl    X OH23  R $500  
Hite, Cliff    X OH76  R $1,000  
Jones, Shannon    X OH67  R $500  
Portman, Rob   X  OH R $1,000  
Pennsylvania  
Marino, Thomas  X   PA10  R $1,000  
South Carolina  
Clyburn, James  X   SC6 D $5,000  
Tennessee  
Alexander, Lamar   X  TN R $1,000  
Texas  
Brady, Kevin  X   TX8 R $1,000  
Burgess, Michael  X   TX26  R $1,500  
Virginia  
Cantor, Eric  X   VA7 R $5,000  
Washington  
McDermott, Jim  X   WA7  D $1,000  
West Virginia  
McKinley, David  X   WV1  R $1,000  
Wisconsin  
Kind, Ron  X   WI3 D $1,000  
Ryan, Paul  X   WI1 R $1,000  
Total       $66,750   
http://www.sustainability.baxter.com/public -policy/political -contribution -report.html  
© Copyright 2014  Baxter International Inc. All Rights Reserve  
10 
Other BAXPAC Contributions, 2013  
Payee  Amount   
Building Relationships in Diverse Geographic Environments PAC (BRIDGE PAC)  $5,000  
Committee for Hispanic Causes/Building Our Leadership Diversity PAC (CHC BOLD PAC)  $5,000  
Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee  $15.000  
Every Republican is Crucial  $5,000  
The Freedom Project  $5,000  
National Republican Congressional Committee  $15,000  
National Republican Senatorial Committee  $15,000  
New Democrat Coalition PAC  $5,000  
Next Century Fund (NCF PAC)  $1,000  
Total  $71,000  
Lobbying Expenses  
In 2013, Baxter spent approximately $3,181,000 on federal lobbying -related activities in the United States, to promote policies that support the 
company's objectives. This amount includes the salaries and overhead expenses of Baxter employees dedicated to this area, the  value of time 
and related expens es of internal partners (such as corporate counsel), payments to external consultants and lobbyists, and trade association 
dues used for lobbying. Baxter adheres to all federal, state and local laws to ensure compliance in this area. Outside the Un ited Sta tes, Baxter 
also complies with all applicable laws and regulations.  
Certain Memberships  
Baxter maintains memberships in numerous industry and trade groups including organizations that engage in lobbying activities . The table 
below includes the amount that Baxter was notified was spent on federal -related lobbying activity during 2013 by any organization to which to 
the best of its knowledge Baxter paid more than $50,000 in dues or otherwise during the year. Baxter believes that membership  in these 
organizati ons is generally consistent with the company's interests as well as those of its shareholders, customers and patients. Even w hen 
Baxter does not share all of the views of one of these organizations, it believes that membership is worthwhile because such organizations 
encourage dialogue on important policy issues and help to move the industry to a consensus in these areas.  
Federal -Related Lobbying Expenditures by Certain U.S. -based Trade Associates, 2013*  
AdvaMed  $24,320  
Alliance for Home Dialysis Policy  $45,880  
Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO)  $117,150  
GPhA Generic Pharmaceutical Association  $24,450  
Kidney Care Partners (KCP)  $8,690  
Plasma Protein Therapeutics Association (PPTA)  $7,510  
* *Only includes groups of which GAPP is aware. These du es are paid by Baxter’s businesses and not by GAPP.  
View Baxter's  2012 Political Contributions Repor t, 2011 Political Contributions Report , 2010 Po litical Contributions Report , 2009 Political 
Contributions Report  and 2008 Political Contributions Report . 