2012
Environment Report
Boeing is setting new standards for efficiency, environmental performance 
and noise reduction. 2012
Environment Report
03 
Message from Jim McNerney and 
Kim Smith
04 
Performance Targets05 
Designing the Future
07 
Inspring the Industry
10 
Cleaner Products
12 
Cleaner Factories
14 
Remediation16
Performance
18 
Carbon Dioxide Emissions
19
Energy Use
20  
Hazardous Waste
21 
Water Intake
22 
Solid Waste Diverted From Landfills
23  
Toxic Release Inventory
24
International
25 
RecognitionTable of Contents
03 05 16
Our Commitment
Message from Jim McNerney and Kim Smith.Our Actions
Boeing is investing in the next generation of environmental advances.Our Results
Boeing has reduced its envi-
ronmental footprint at a time of significant growth.
2 » To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment» To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment 3The 747-8 and 787 Dreamliner — with 
smaller noise and emissions profiles than 
airplanes they replace — entered into ser -
vice last year. We also launched the 737 
MAX with a 13 percent smaller carbon 
footprint than today’s Next-Generation 737, 
which currently is the world’s most fuel-  
efficient single-aisle commercial airplane.
This builds on an enduring legacy of 
continuously improving the environmental performance of our products and services. 
Today’s commercial airplanes produce  
70 percent less carbon dioxide than  
jetliners that flew during the 1960s.
Boeing led a broad industry effort that, in 
2011, won approval for the use of cleaner, 
sustainable biofuels in commercial and mili-
tary aviation worldwide. Since then, airlines 
have used biofuels on more than 1,500 passenger flights. These innovative fuels  
are derived from plants and other biomass sources that do not adversely affect food and water supplies or impede valuable land 
use. In fact, they significantly reduce the net 
carbon dioxide output of flight. Looking to the future, we will continue 
devoting a significant portion of our R&D 
efforts to develop cleaner, more efficient air -
craft. First flight of the Phantom Eye — an 
unmanned, high-altitude aircraft powered 
by clean-burning hydrogen — occurred in 
early June. And Boeing engineers are ac-tively studying a new-generation 777 that 
promises to be even more fuel efficient — 
with a significantly smaller environmental footprint — than today’s market-leading 
twin-aisle airplane.
In addition to developing innovative  
and efficient new products, we also are  
improving the environmental performance 
of our internal operations.
Last year, we began powering our South 
Carolina production facility with 100 percent 
renewable energy generated, in part, by so-
lar panels spanning the 10-acre (4-hectare) roof of the final assembly building where we 
are producing the 787 Dreamliner and pro-
viding thousands of new manufacturing jobs. This, along with our companywide effort to 
reduce energy use, is among the reasons 
why we have become an ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year for a second consecu-
tive year.
 
In 2007, we established aggressive five-
year environmental goals for Boeing’s  
internal operations. We committed to re-
duce greenhouse gas emissions, energy 
use, hazardous-waste generation and wa-
ter intake by 1 percent on an absolute  
 basis. At the time, we anticipated these goals would equate to a 25 percent reduc-
tion on a revenue-adjusted basis.
Since then, we have experienced un-
precedented growth in our business. We brought two new airplanes to market, in-
creased monthly production of jetliners by more than 25 percent, added well over  
1 million square feet (92,903 square meters) of additional manufacturing facilities and created more than 12,000 new jobs. During 
that time, we steadily reduced our environ-
mental footprint.
While this rapid growth has made our 
environmental goals more challenging, we remain on track to meet or exceed the tar -
geted absolute reduction on most mea-
sures, and we expect our revenue-adjusted 
improvements will still reach the mid to high teens.  
Boeing produces strong results because 
of our people. Our employees continue to find new and better ways to enhance our 
environmental performance, which benefits 
our communities as well as our business.
 Our Commitment
Message From Jim McNerney and Kim Smith
At Boeing, we are focused on creating cleaner, more efficient flight. Each new generation 
of products we bring to the marketplace is quieter, consumes less fuel and is better for the environment. 
Jim McNerney
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
The Boeing Company
Kim Smith
Vice President
Boeing Environment, Health and Safety
PHOTO: BOEINGBOEING 2012 ENVIRONMENT REPORTBoeing set the following targets for the period between 2007 and 2012 at our operations in the United States, where we have our 
largest manufacturing presence:
In addition, we committed to increasing the amount of solid waste diverted from landfills to 75 percent, measured on an absolute ba-
sis, for the same period. 
Since adopting these targets, Boeing has announced increases in production rates for all commercial airplane models. We also hired 
thousands of new employees and added major new manufacturing operations, including the South Carolina 787 production facilities and 
the PDX facility for painting twin-engine airplanes in Portland, Ore.
For information on performance toward these goals, please see Our Results . Our Commitment
Performance Targets
Mike Kunce, left, Tom Harmon and the energy management team improved system efficiency and reduced 2011 energy and water usage by more than  
12 percent in the main office building at our St. Louis site. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency recognized the achievement in 2012 by awarding the building an ENERGY STAR.PHOTO: BOEINGBOEING 2012 ENVIRONMENT REPORT
4 » To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environmentGreenhouse Gas Emissions 
Energy Consumption
 
Water Intake
 
Hazardous-Waste GenerationAbsolute Reduction 
1% 
1% 
1% 
1%Revenue-Adjusted 
Reduction 
25% 
25% 
25% 
25%In aviation, the most significant envi-
ronmental improvements occur when they 
are designed into a product from the be-
ginning. This forward-thinking approach, which we call Design for Environment, 
includes analyzing a products environmen-
tal footprint over its operational life cycle — from raw materials, through manufacturing, 
into service and, finally, at the end of use. 
ecoDemonstrator
Over the next 
several years,  
Boeing will fly annual demonstrator air -
planes to accelerate 
emerging technolo-
gies designed to  
increase fuel effi-
ciency, reduce noise and assess sustain-able materials. Testing in 2012 and 2013 
will be conducted in partnership with the 
U.S. Federal Aviation Administration’s 
CLEEN (Continuous Lower Energy, Emis-sions and Noise) program.
The first ecoDemonstrator technology 
suite will be flown in late summer or early fall 
of 2012 on a Next-Generation 737-800 and will test a number of innovations.  
The wings will be fitted with adaptive  
trailing edges to improve fuel efficiency at takeoff, climb and cruising altitudes, as  
well as reduce community noise. A regen-
erative hydrogen fuel cell will provide an 
alternative source of cabin power while ad-
vancing technology toward reducing weight, fuel consumption and carbon emissions. 
Advanced flight trajectory and in-flight plan-
ning will enable more fuel-efficient routes and enable future improvements in air traffic management. 
In 2013, a 787 will enter into the eco-
Demonstrator program to test and advance additional technologies for possible incorpo-
ration on future airplane models. 
Phantom Eye
This unmanned aerial vehicle is fueled 
with liquid hydrogen, a first for Boeing.  
The Phantom Eye is a high-altitude, long-  
endurance vehicle designed to stay  
airborne for up to four days — with no con-
tributing CO2 emissions. Boeing internally 
funded all the research to develop this  
innovative concept. Powered by two 2.3-  
liter (0.6-gallon), four-cylinder hydrogen  Our Actions
Designing the Future
Clean-burning hydrogen fuel means the only emissions will be water from Phantom Eye, a high-altitude, unmanned airborne system, which completed its first 
flight on June 1, 2012.PHOTO: BOEINGBOEING 2012 ENVIRONMENT REPORT
5 » To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environmentA faster takeoff for clean technology
The carbon fiber composite material 
that has transformed aerospace, resulting 
in fuel-efficient airplanes such as the 787 Dreamliner, wasn’t developed overnight. Research and testing began more than 40 years ago with small composite compo-nents on the Boeing 727.
Jeanne Yu would like to help that re-
search and development process move much more quickly.
“Our goal is to get more environmen-
tally progressive technologies on airplanes faster; that is the real environmental strat-egy. What do we need to do to get there?” asked Yu, director of environmental perfor -
mance in Boeing Commercial Airplanes.
engines that provide 150 horsepower each, 
the Phantom Eye’s first flight occurred on 
June 1, 2012. 
X-48C
This blended wing body research and 
test aircraft, designed to advance technolo-gies that will consume less fuel and make 
less noise, could help to reduce the carbon footprint of aircraft by an additional 20  
percent.
 The Boeing blended wing body 
design resembles a manta ray with a flat, 
tailless fuselage. This fuselage blending 
helps to get additional lift with less drag compared to a circular fuselage. Boeing 
previously tested the three-engine X-48B 
and later this year is scheduled to fly the more efficient twin-engine X-48C.
SUGAR
Boeing’s Subsonic Ultra-Green Air -
craft Research (SUGAR) team is work-
ing to identify future commercial transport 
concepts for NASA. The team is looking at a number of concepts and technology development for several advanced fuel and energy technology options for the 2030 to 2050 time frame. 
These include hybrid battery-gas turbine 
propulsion, fuel cells, fuel cell–gas turbine hybrid propulsion systems, cryogenic fuels, 
cryogenically cooled engines and associ-
ated technologies, advanced batteries and open rotor/turboprop technologies.
One concept, called SUGAR Volt, 
shows potential to meet NASA’s environ-mental goals for 2030 to 2035. With a 
hybrid propulsion system, using both jet 
fuel and batteries, a greater wingspan and open-rotor engines, the SUGAR Volt is de-
signed to emit 60 percent less carbon diox-
ide and 80 percent less nitrogen oxide than aircraft that operate today.
Energy
We are focused on developing smart, 
secure energy solutions for the U.S. military 
that lower operational costs and increase 
energy efficiency at 
military installations 
around the country. 
The team is also de-veloping advanced 
technologies in ar -
eas such as renew-
able energy, energy 
storage and carbon capture.
In August 2011, Boeing and Siemens 
announced an alliance to improve energy 
access and security for the U.S. Depart-
ment of Defense, the largest energy con-sumer in the federal government
. Our Actions
Designing the FutureBOEING 2012 ENVIRONMENT REPORT
6 » To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environmentA faster takeoff continued from P5
Designing the Future continued from P5 One answer can be found in the eco-
Demonstrator, a program that takes flight 
in 2012. Using a Boeing Next-Generation 737, the ecoDemonstrator aims to acceler -
ate technology through testing of several advanced technologies designed to im-prove aircraft efficiency, reduce noise and cut emissions.
Yu said the lengthy development pro-
cess for carbon fiber composite material highlights the role of a research accelerator like the ecoDemonstrator. “Composite test-ing began on the 727 in the 1970s. Carbon fiber components played an increasingly bigger role over time on the 747, 767 and 777 before taking a big leap on the 787 Dreamliner.”
“A new technology’s application has to 
grow and expand based on our confidence and ability to learn and produce it more effectively,” Yu said. “That’s where the eco-Demonstrator comes in.”
“The test platform enables product 
developers to gain experience with the technology and how it integrates with the airplane,” Yu said. The program’s deadlines and flight schedules also help focus their efforts. “In essence it’s really about stretch-ing people’s imagination into the practical-ity of application.”
The ecoDemonstrator program will test 
new environmentally progressive technolo-gies on a different airplane platform each year, a schedule which adds other benefits. “We develop a whole new airplane only once every 10 years. That’s a long time in between airplanes,” Yu said. “The eco-Demonstrator will help the product devel-opment team keep our learning ability fresh every year.”
Click to launch video on the website
Click to launch video on the website
Blended Wing Body: The shape of 
things to come?
SUGAR Volt: Boeing’s Hybrid Electric 
AircraftPHOTO: BOEING. Bill Norby, left, propulsion and fuel team leader, and Brad Shaw, chief engineer, are part of the team that is demonstrating the performance, environmental benefits and potential use of hydrogen fuel as part of the Phantom Eye high-altitude, unmanned aerial vehicle.Boeing is bringing together customers, 
suppliers, academic institutions and gov-
ernment organizations around the globe to 
work at the leading edge of today’s most promising technologies for continued envi-
ronmental efficiencies.
Biofuels
Our commercial and military customers 
are looking for innovative ways to improve the environmental performance of aero-
space, reduce the dependence on petro-leum and secure a clean-energy future. 
That is why Boeing is taking a leading role in accelerating the development of sus-tainable biofuels that can be used as a 
“drop-in” replacement for jet fuel while not competing with food, water or land-use 
resources. 
With a number of initiatives around the 
world, from Brazil, to the U.S., Australia, the UAE and China, Boeing is working to 
enable the development and commercial-ization of sustainable aviation biofuels.
Major milestones were achieved last year 
as Boeing-led industry efforts won approval from ASTM International for aviation bio-
fuels. This organization, which establishes 
fuel standards for commercial and military aviation around the globe, approved use 
of these innovative fuels without requiring 
modifications to aircraft or engines
.
Since these fuels were approved, more 
than 1,500 commercial airline flights have successfully flown using biofuels. The U.S. 
Navy has certified all their aircraft for bio-
fuels flight, and most of the U.S. Air Force aircraft have received similar approvals.
In addition to the regularly scheduled 
commercial flights in 2011, Boeing took a leading role in two pioneering biofuels 
flights.Our Actions
Inspiring the Industry
Boeing is working with a number of organizations and research and development projects throughout the world dedicated to advancing the development of 
sustainable aviation biofuels. PHOTO: BOEINGBOEING 2012 ENVIRONMENT REPORT
7 » To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environmentFlight deck technology leads to “Greener Skies”
A key part of the strategy to create a 
more efficient global air traffic management 
(ATM) system is to take better advantage of technology that is readily available and already on board most aircraft. 
“Boeing airplanes have been equipped 
with highly capable flight management sys-tems for a long time,” said Sheila Conway, senior engineer in Avionics, Air Traffic Man-agement. 
“Part of our job is to demonstrate to 
the airlines, the industry and air traffic controllers how we can leverage the advanced capabilities and functions already available on the flight deck.” Conway said it’s also important to show 
Click to launch video on the websiteBiofuels: Renewable jet fuelIn June 2011, a 747-8 Freighter made 
its international air show debut flying across 
the Atlantic Ocean to the Paris Air Show 
using renewable aviation jet fuel — the world’s first transatlantic crossing of a com-
mercial jetliner using biofuels. 
And, in April 2012, Boeing delivered a 
787 Dreamliner to Japan’s ANA powered in part by sustainable biofuels. The deliv-
ery flight between Boeing’s Delivery Center in Everett, Wash., and Tokyo was the first 
transpacific biofuels flight. 
ATM
Improving the efficiency of the global 
transportation system, which is based on 1950s-era technology, will provide signifi-
cant environmental benefits. The Civil Air Navigation Services Organization (CANSO), 
of which Boeing is a member, estimates 
that the current worldwide air traffic man-agement system fuel efficiency is between 
92 and 94 percent and is working toward 
a goal of 95 to 98 percent by 2050. At the same time, Boeing is collaborating glob-
ally to research and develop longer-term 
systems and solutions to modernize and transform air travel. 
In October 2011, Boeing received a 
U.S. Federal Aviation Administration con-tract — called Greener Skies Initiative 2 — 
to evaluate current navigation procedures 
and analyze new ones with the potential to reduce the carbon footprint of air travel. 
This initiative will expand and build on the 
success of the Greener Skies Over Seattle project, which demonstrated Alaska Air -
lines’ ability to cut fuel consumption and reduce emissions by 35 percent using new techniques Boeing developed for the de-
scent and landing phases of flight. 
In August 2011, Boeing and Indonesia’s 
Lion Air completed validation flights to test precision navigation technology in South 
Asia. Using GPS-based technology to fly precisely defined flight paths will reduce 
flight miles and improve descents, saving 
fuel, reducing emissions and noise, and en-hancing safety. 
Boeing is offering services to help air -
lines save fuel and increase environmental performance. The use of old, inaccurate and limited weather data can prevent air -
planes from operating at peak efficiency. A new service, called “Wind Updates,” provides flight crews with real-time wind, 
temperature and weather information that 
can save hundreds of gallons of fuel on a typical flight.
Supply Chain
In 2011, Boeing took a leadership role 
in an effort to bring together the aerospace 
industry and address the need for com-
mon environmental standards in the global supply chain. The International Aerospace 
Environmental Group (IAEG) is working 
to develop a standardized approach for a wide range of environmental issues  
including identifying the chemical compo-nents in aerospace parts produced around the world and greenhouse gas data collec-
tion and reporting. 
Founding members include Airbus and 
EADS, Boeing, Bombardier Aerospace, Dassault Aviation, Embraer, GE Aviation, 
Northrop Grumman, Rolls-Royce, SAFRAN, United Technologies Corporation and  
Zodiac Aerospace. Since then, membership has nearly doubled
.
Our hope is that these efforts will lead to 
increased efficiency in aerospace opera-tions and enable reductions in environmen-tal pollution.
Global Approach to Aviation 
Emissions
Since aviation is a global industry, with 
airplanes crossing international borders ev-
ery day, Boeing believes that a global sys-
tem is needed to address aviation  
emissions. We advocate that a global emis-
sions framework for aviation can best be 
achieved under the auspices of the Interna-tional Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), a 
United Nations organization.
Working through ICAO, aviation was the 
first industry to present a clear plan to the United Nations’ ongoing climate change 
negotiations. ICAO calls for global guide-lines including the development of a CO
2 
standard for aircraft, improvements in air 
traffic control systems to cut air travel–  
related emissions by up to 12 percent and Our Actions
Inspiring the IndustryBOEING 2012 ENVIRONMENT REPORT
8 » To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environmentFlight deck continued from P7
Inspiring the Industry continued from P7 how airborne components, such as airplane 
flight management systems and ground-based air traffic control systems, can work together to optimize flight operations and improve aviation environmental performance.
Conway leads the “Greener Skies Initia-
tive 2,” a research project funded by the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration to expand the use of flight deck and air traf-fic control capabilities across the coun-try. Launched in 2011, Greener Skies will evaluate precision navigation procedures that can improve air traffic management efficiency. 
The advanced navigation procedures 
are supported by new, GPS-based tech-nology that allows airplanes to follow precise approaches while landing at busy airports where the runways are very close together. The result is more efficient depar -
tures and landings that use less fuel and reduce emissions and noise.
“This technology is a good example of 
what is already available on the flight deck to improve air traffic management,” Con-way said.
The procedures will be tested through 
2013 at Seattle-Tacoma International  
Airport for future implementation at  
capacity-constrained airports across the United States. 
Conway said ongoing ATM advances 
will have a significant impact on global aviation. “This is a real opportunity to help the environment and to benefit aircraft op-erators. It’s not ‘pie in the sky’; it’s real and can start making a difference in the very near future,” she said
. 
PHOTO: BOEING. Senior Engineer Sheila Conway can 
test new air traffic management procedures on a full-scale mock-up of a 777 flight deck at the Integrated Aircraft Sys-tems Laboratory in Seattle, Wash. Conway leads “Greener Skies Initiative 2,” which evaluates navigation procedures that can improve air traffic efficiency.» To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environmentcontinued efforts to promote the commer -
cialization of sustainable alternative fuels — 
all with the aim of achieving carbon-neutral 
growth across commercial aviation by 2020 and reducing the footprint after that.
The aviation industry promoted this ap-
proach at the UN climate change confer -
ences over the last three years. Boeing fully 
supports the ICAO position on controlling 
aviation emissions and, along with the rest 
of the aviation industry, we are working to-ward meeting these commitments. 
Boeing does not believe that isolated 
regional or national programs to regulate aviation emissions will achieve the de-
sired environmental, economic and social 
results. Localized approaches could result in competitive distortions and delay of in-
vestments in aviation emissions reductions 
through technology
. Our Actions
Inspiring the IndustryBOEING 2012 ENVIRONMENT REPORT
9Inspiring the Industry continued from P8
Click to launch video on the websiteCarbon fiber gets a second 
life
When Bill Carberry thinks of the scrap 
carbon fiber that’s left over from manufac-
turing a 787 Dreamliner, he doesn’t see industrial waste headed to a landfill – he sees the makings of new, high-value aero-space products bound for continued life on new airplanes.
“Our research has shown that recycled 
carbon fiber composite material is compa-rable in strength and quality to new fiber,” said Carberry, leader of the airplane and composite recycling program. 
According to Carberry, recycled carbon 
fiber is ideal for nonstructural aircraft com-ponents from arm rests to smaller parts, such as electronics casings, brackets and hose clamps. In 2011, Carberry’s group built a proof-of-concept galley door from carbon fiber manufacturing scrap collected at Boeing’s 787 factory in Charleston, S.C.  
In addition to the research Boeing is 
doing at its own factories from Charleston to the Seattle area, the company is working with leading academic institutions around the world – including the University of Not-tingham in the U.K. – to develop aerospace uses for recycled composites.  
“Recycled carbon fiber components still 
need to meet the aircraft’s design require-ments and mission; they can’t increase the cost or weight of the part,” Carberry said. 
“It’s a challenge, but the benefits are worth it if we can reuse our composite scrap and put it back into new manufacturing.” 
The Aircraft Fleet Recycling Associa-
tion estimates recycling carbon fiber uses 95 percent less electricity and is 30 percent less expensive than making new composite material. 
Finding new ways to reuse and recycle 
carbon fiber will take on greater environ-mental and financial significance in coming years as the number of largely composite 787s rolling out of factories in Charleston and Everett, Wash., continues to increase, along with military aircraft, like the V-22 pro-duced in Philadelphia, Pa. 
Carberry said the industry now faces the 
challenge of creating a market for recycled fiber. “I’m confident that that by the time the first Dreamliners begin to retire from service, they will be easier to recycle than aluminum aircraft.”
“Three years ago, if I had told somebody 
we were going to make galley doors out of recycled carbon fiber scrap, they would have laughed at me. But we can do that today,” he said. 
Using wind to save fuel
PHOTO: BOEING. Ashley Stewart and Brad Strange, Envi-
ronment, Health and Safety operations specialists, collect scraps of carbon fiber for recycling at the North Charles-ton, S.C., 787 factory. The reclaimed composite material can be recycled into high-value industrial products, reduc-ing the amount of manufacturing waste sent to landfills.Continuously improving product  
performance is part of our DNA. Environ-
mental improvements only enhance the 
exceptional performance our customers expect from Boeing. The 747-8 and 787 
Dreamliner have established new standards 
among jetliners for efficiency, environmental performance and noise reduction. 
The technology that shapes the  
environmental performance of the 787 
Dreamliner and 747-8 Intercontinental 
includes advanced materials, more fuel-efficient engines, new wing designs and 
improved aerodynamics. And efficient new airplanes — such as the 737 MAX — are 
on the way.
747-8
The 747-8 Intercontinental carries more 
passengers for a longer distance while be-
ing cleaner, quieter and more fuel efficient 
than any previous 747, while the 747-8 Freighter brings improved economic and 
environmental performance to the global 
cargo market. These new additions to the 747 family give double-digit improvements in fuel economy and carbon emissions with 
a 30 percent smaller noise footprint. 
787 Dreamliner
With a composite fuselage and wings, 
the 787 Dreamliner is 20 percent more fuel-efficient than other airplanes of comparable 
size and proves to be more environmen-tally progressive throughout the product life 
cycle. The airplane is manufactured using 
fewer hazardous materials, consumes less 
fuel and produces fewer emissions. The 
Dreamliner is also quieter for airport com-munities than any previous airplane. Our Actions
Cleaner Products
The 737 MAX reduces carbon emissions for better environmental performance. And the noise footprint is 40 percent smaller than today’s single-aisle air -
planes.PHOTO: BOEINGBOEING 2012 ENVIRONMENT REPORT
10 » To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environmentClean getaway
Forgoing a fuel-filter change on a jetliner 
as big as the 777 may, by itself, seem to be 
a small step in reducing waste and helping the environment.
Yet a team of environmentally engaged 
employees, which has combined this small step with nine other actions, is having a big impact in making 777 flight tests and deliveries cleaner, quieter and easier on the environment. 
“We wanted to reduce the environ-  
mental impact of the 777 preflight and delivery process, which includes activi-ties such as painting and engine testing,” explained Carolyn Barnes, 777 Operations support.  
Click to launch video on the website747-8: A new lift in performance737 MAX
Boeing launched the 737 MAX in 2011, 
continuing the legacy by making the 
world’s best-selling jetliner even more envi-
ronmentally efficient. Airlines operating the 737 MAX will realize a 13 percent reduc-
tion in fuel consumption — with a corre-
sponding reduction in CO
2 emissions — 
over today’s most fuel-efficient single-aisle 
airplane, the Next-Generation 737. Recent 
design updates, including the Advanced Technology winglet, will result in less drag 
and will further optimize the new engine 
variant’s performance, especially at longer-range missions. The 737 MAX will also  
incorporate the latest in quiet engine tech-nology, substantially reducing noise relative to current aircraft.
777
The 777 is the most fuel-efficient air -
plane flying today in the 300- to 400-seat 
market. It is 20 percent lighter and pro-
duces 25 percent less CO2 than its closest 
flying competitor. In 2011, the 777 received 
type-design approval from the U.S. Federal 
Aviation Administration for up to 330-  
minute extended operations (ETOPS), 
which allows the 777 to fly more direct 
routes between city pairs, resulting in up to 16 percent less fuel burned and less car -
bon dioxide emitted into the atmosphere. And, with 777X, we are currently working with customers and suppliers to study ad-
ditional options for further improvements to 
the jetliner.Spectrolab
Spectrolab, the world’s leading manu-
facturer of solar cells and panels, pow-
ers everything from satellites to renewable 
solar energy projects in high-sunlight areas around the world. Spectrolab, which has 
manufactured space products for more 
than 50 years, produced its three millionth space-based solar cell in 2010 and expects 
to surpass four million this year.
Technology used to power satellites in 
space also has applications here on Earth, converting sunlight into clean electricity. 
Spectrolab production solar cells convert sunlight into electricity more than twice as 
efficiently as any silicon solar cell. The com-
pany manufactured more than seven million terrestrial cells in 2011, producing about 
100 megawatts of electricity — enough 
to power approximately 2,000 average homes. In March 2011, Spectrolab began 
manufacturing its fourth-generation solar 
cell, which converts 40 percent of sunlight into electricity. 
Spectrolab is nearing completion of a 
major manufacturing upgrade project that will reduce costs, increase annual terres-
trial manufacturing capacity to about 250 
megawatts, and launch a new space solar panel design that will ensure continued 
leadership in the space market
. Our Actions
Cleaner ProductsBOEING 2012 ENVIRONMENT REPORT
11 » To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environmentClean getaway continued from P10
Cleaner Products continued from P10 The team last fall designed 10 envi-
ronmental initiatives that are reducing fuel 
use by 300,000 gallons (1.14 million liters) and carbon dioxide output by 5.5 million pounds (2.5 million kilograms) annually on 777 deliveries, along with achieving other environmental improvements.
The environmental initiatives include
• Using chrome-free paint primer, cutting down on hazardous materials and boosting the safety of crews. • Eliminating redundant engine testing and reducing community noise and emissions. • Retaining the hydraulic and engine fuel filters used in flight test. Engineers demon-strated that the filters did not need to be changed before aircraft delivery, reducing the amount of hazardous waste generated. • Recycling left-over jet fuel used in flight tests. • Improving flight-test planning, boosting efficiency and reducing flight times and fuel consumption. • Using electric instead of gas-powered vehicles on the flight line. • Reducing the amount of potable water needed in flight test. • Promoting greater flight line and paint hangar recycling. 
The team chose a “pilot” 777-300ER 
(Extended Range) to test all of the initia-tives together and received permission from customer Air New Zealand to imple-ment all the initiatives in the preflight and delivery process. Now, most of these steps are routinely implemented during all 777 deliveries with the use of chrome-free  
primer, a customer option
. 
Click to launch video on the websiteDelivering a more environmentally sustain-
able 777PHOTO: BOEING. Carolyn Barnes, from left, Operations support, Cindy Chan, environmental engineer, and Stepha-nie Wong, Operations support, check a fuel  “bowser,” or tanker, for recycling leftover jet fuel used in flight tests.As part of our commitment to reduce 
our environmental footprint, Boeing is 
working to improve the environmental per -
formance of our factories and office loca-
tions.
Through conservation projects imple-
mented over the last eight years, Boeing has saved nearly 114 million kilowatt-hours 
of energy — enough to power 9,940 aver -
age homes in the United States.
Our facility in Long Beach, Calif., was 
awarded the ENERGY STAR Challenge for 
Industry by reducing its energy intensity by 10 percent within one year. The Long Beach site is the first in the nation to re-
ceive this recognition three times. In total, 
10 buildings have been ENERGY STAR-certified including sites in California, Illinois, 
Missouri, Texas and Washington state. As 
a result, Boeing was named an ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year for the second 
consecutive year. 
 
South Carolina
One of the largest thin-film rooftop so-
lar installations in the southeastern United 
States, as measured by production capac-
ity, can be found atop Boeing’s newest final assembly building at the North Charleston facility. And, at 10 acres (4 hectares), it’s 
one of the largest in the nation. 
This solar system, generating 2.6 mega-
watts at peak production from 18,000 solar panels or enough electricity to power ap-
proximately 250 residential homes, doubled the current solar generation in the state of 
South Carolina when it went online in  
October 2011. The solar system provides 
up to 20 percent of the power needed for 
this 100 percent renewable energy site. 
The remainder of the site’s energy require-ments will be met with renewable energy from the local utility biomass generation 
facilities, coupled with renewable energy 
certificates.
LEED
All new construction and major renova-
tion projects are designed to a LEED Silver 
rating or higher. LEED, or Leadership in 
Energy and Environmental Design, provides 
a rating system based on multiple factors 
including the energy and water efficiency of a building, improved indoor environmental 
quality and the use of sustainable sources 
during construction. Our Actions
Cleaner Factories
18,000 solar panels cover the final assembly building at our South Carolina facility. Spanning 10 acres (4 hectares), it is one of the largest thin-film rooftop 
solar installations in the southeastern United States.PHOTO: BOEINGBOEING 2012 ENVIRONMENT REPORT
12 » To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment“Zero” waste is just a start
When Boeing South Carolina became 
one of just a handful of company sites to 
reach the zero-waste-to-landfill milestone, Tony Soto saw the achievement not as the end of their efforts to reduce waste, but as the beginning. 
“Getting the designation isn’t an end-
point or goal; ‘zero-waste’ is an ongo-ing journey of continuous improvement,” said Soto, Environment, Health and Safety senior manager. “We’ve already identified ways we can get better.”
The North Charleston site became the 
first major Boeing Commercial Airplanes production facility to achieve zero waste to landfill in 2011. Zero waste means none  
of the waste materials and by-products 
Boeing has LEED-certified buildings lo-
cated in California, South Carolina, Texas 
and Washington state. Additionally, cer -
tifications are under way at several other 
Boeing sites, including our new joint ven-
ture composite manufacturing building in 
Tianjin, China.
Zero Waste to Landfill
Four Boeing manufacturing sites — our 
787 manufacturing facility in South Caro-
lina, our helicopter manufacturing facility 
in Philadelphia, our commercial fabrica-tion site in Salt Lake City and our defense 
systems site in Huntsville, Ala. — currently 
send no solid waste to landfills. Boeing defines “zero waste to landfill” to include, 
at a minimum, all solid waste generated by 
operations. It does not include waste gen-erated during construction and remodeling, 
nor does it include hazardous waste, which 
is handled in accordance with applicable regulations. 
With a zero-waste-to-landfill goal, all 
sites look for continuous waste-reduction opportunities, such as recycling efforts and 
eliminating unnecessary materials used in 
offices and on the shop floor.
ISO 14001
Certification to the internationally rec-
ognized ISO 14001 environmental man-
agement standard has strengthened our 
companywide focus on continuous im-provement and enabled a common way of 
managing environmental processes across 
the company. 
Sites in the following locations are certi-
fied to the ISO 14001 standard, and  
Boeing China, the PDX facility used to paint commercial airplanes in Portland, Ore., 
South Carolina, and Williamtown, Australia, 
are expected to earn certification in 2012:U.S. Locations:Alabama: Huntsville
Arizona: MesaCalifornia: Anaheim, Cypress, El Segundo, Huntington Beach, Long Beach, Palmdale, 
Rancho Cucamonga, Seal Beach, Sylmar, 
San Diego, Taft and TorranceFlorida: Kennedy Space Center
Georgia: Macon
Illinois: St. ClairKansas: Wichita
Missouri: St. Charles and St. Louis
Oregon: PortlandPennsylvania: Philadelphia
Texas: El Paso, Houston and San Antonio
Utah: Salt Lake CityWashington: Auburn, Bellevue, Everett, 
Frederickson, Kent, Renton, Seattle and Tukwila
International Locations:
Australia: Amberley, Bankstown, Brisbane, and Fishermans Bend
Canada: Winnipeg
United Kingdom: Bristol, Knaresborough and Welwyn Garden City
Related Links: ISO 14001, LEED
. Our Actions
Cleaner FactoriesBOEING 2012 ENVIRONMENT REPORT
13 » To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment“Zero” waste continued from P12
Cleaner Factories continued from P12 generated at the site reaches a landfill. 
Waste is recycled, reused or otherwise re-purposed. 
The site’s waste management plan 
includes comprehensive recycling with recycling centers located throughout the facility; composting; and a waste-to-energy strategy, which means material that can’t be recycled is collected by a contractor and taken to a facility that burns waste to create energy. 
Soto figures their waste-reduction ef-
forts in 2011 diverted approximately 1,400 tons of material away from landfills. Since the North Charleston site already sends no waste to landfills, how can it improve on “zero”?
“There is a lot of room for improvement. 
Part of our push this year is to get more material out of the waste-to-energy stream and into true recycling, where it can be put to beneficial use, such as becoming part of another product,” Soto said. 
Another solution Soto cited was to re-
duce the amount of waste that comes into the site by using more containers that go back to the supplier. The containers are replenished with parts or other material and come back to the site in a closed loop.
“The Boeing site’s waste reduction pro-
gram is getting a lot of attention from other South Carolina companies,” Soto said. “It’s great to know we’re being benchmarked as the standard in reducing, reusing and recycling waste. We want the community to see Boeing as a good environmental steward.”
 
PHOTO: BOEING. Tony Soto leads the recycling and 
waste-reduction program at our South Carolina facility, which is one of four Boeing manufacturing sites currently sending zero waste to landfills. As part of our annual $100 million com-
mitment to cleaning up sites affected by 
past business practices, Boeing recently 
completed work at a U.S. EPA Superfund site a full year ahead of schedule. 
Remediation work is largely performed 
at former manufacturing facilities and sites where Boeing, or companies we have ac-
quired, shipped chemicals and other waste 
for treatment, storage or disposal. In many cases, waste-processing facilities that 
used treatment methods that were consid-
ered best practices in the past are being cleaned up to meet or exceed current envi-ronmental standards.
Working with national, state and local 
regulatory agencies, we strive for an open exchange of information with community 
members, government representatives and 
other stakeholders as we progress through these cleanups.
Chemical Commodities, Inc.
Over the last 15 years, Boeing has been 
working with the U.S. Environmental Pro-
tection Agency and the local community, 
and on behalf of a dozen other parties, to advance cleanup progress at the Chemical Commodities Inc. (CCI) Superfund site in 
Olathe, Kan. 
This 1.5-acre (0.6-hectare) site near 
Kansas City was operated as a chemical brokerage and recycling facility. During its 
38 years of operation, CCI bought chemi-cals from dozens of companies and gov-
ernment agencies. Rocketdyne, which was 
briefly part of Boeing, shipped wastes to the site for recycling for a short time during 
the 1960s. 
Over time, contamination from chemi-
cals shipped by multiple companies to 
CCI for treatment entered in the soil and 
groundwater, requiring a comprehensive  
remediation program.
An important milestone was achieved 
in the summer of 2011 with construction 
completed at the site and the final cleanup remedy put in place. By doing this, Boeing 
accomplished all of the cleanup require-
ments set forth by the EPA. Over the next 
few years, we will continue to monitor the 
site to verify the remedy is operating as planned. Studies are underway to use the 
new parkland to attract migratory butter -
flies, bees and other pollinators.Our Actions
Remediation
Cleanup work at the Chemical Commodities, Inc. Superfund site near Kansas City was completed a full year ahead of schedule. Over the next few years, 
Boeing will continue to monitor the site to verify the remedy is operating as planned.PHOTO: BOEINGBOEING 2012 ENVIRONMENT REPORT
14 » To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environmentTeaming for success
Cleaning up soil and groundwater con-
tamination is no small feat, but teaming 
with a diverse group of stakeholders pro-duced significant results.
“From the beginning, our goal was to 
build a good relationship and work as a team with the community and the govern-ment agencies involved to resolve any technical challenges and expedite the cleanup process,” said Joe Flaherty,  
Boeing Remediation project manager. 
Activities at Chemical Commodities, 
Inc. (CCI) in Olathe, Kansas contaminated soil and groundwater during its 38 years of operation as a chemical recycling and bro-kerage facility. During that time, CCI  
accepted chemicals from dozens of com-
Duwamish
The shoreline along the Duwamish 
Waterway in Seattle, Wash., looks very 
different today than it did one year ago. 
In September 2011, Plant 2, a 35-acre (14-hectare) facility, was demolished to 
make way for a habitat restoration project. 
More than 85 percent of the World War II–era building materials, including steel and 
wood beams, copper wiring, concrete and 
other metals, were recycled or reused.
Additional cleanup work was completed 
at Slip 4, also along the Duwamish, which included building a state-of-the-art treat-ment system to clean storm water runoff to 
stringent levels protective of marine water 
quality.
Starting in the fall of 2012, Boeing will 
begin dredging the waterway to remove more than 200,000 cubic yards (152,911 cubic meters) of contaminated sediment 
and replace it with clean sand. A planned 
5-acre (2-hectare) wetland and habitat proj-ect will provide an important ecological re-
source to improve Puget Sound fish runs.Santa Susana
Boeing is making consistent progress 
in its efforts to clean up Santa Susana and preserve it as open space, connecting a 
critical wildlife corridor near Los Angeles. A former federal government rocket engine 
and nuclear energy testing site, Santa  
Susana cleanup efforts are directed by a 
number of federal, state and local regulatory 
agencies that oversee soil, surface water 
and groundwater cleanup programs.
Since acquiring a portion of the site in 
1996 as part of the defense and space 
businesses of Rockwell International,  
Boeing’s team of geologists, engineers and 
experts in surface water, ground water and 
radiation have been working to clean up 
this 2,850-acre (1,153-hectare) site.
Progress in 2011 included demolishing 
and removing 16 structures and test facilities 
totaling 39,000 square feet (3,623 square 
meters). In addition, Boeing completed con-struction of two state-of-the-art storm water 
treatment systems that collect storm water 
runoff in tanks before treating it with chemi-cals and advanced filters. As remediation 
efforts continue, Boeing is planting native 
vegetation and working with several organi-zations — including the San Fernando Valley 
Audubon Society and the nonprofit Pollina-
tor Partnership — to enhance the site for wildlife
. Our Actions
RemediationBOEING 2012 ENVIRONMENT REPORT
15 » To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environmentTeaming continued from P14
Remediation continued from P14 panies, including Rocketdyne, a rocket 
engine manufacturer that Boeing owned briefly.  
Over the last 15 years, Flaherty and a 
team of Boeing experts in ground water and soil cleanup technologies have been working to clean up the U.S. EPA Super -
fund site. 
Extensive involvement from the commu-
nity and state and federal agencies is one of the reasons cited for several better-than-expected project milestones. 
“The cleanup at the Chemical Com-
modities, Inc. site is a great example of the hard work and effort demonstrated by Boeing, the Olathe community and federal, state and local partnerships, to address hazardous waste at the site,” said U.S. EPA Region 7 Administrator Karl Brooks. “The goal of the Superfund Program is to protect human health and the environment from hazardous contamination. The CCI site has been cleaned up and is now ready for reuse. I commend Boeing, the Olathe community and all others involved in the cleanup for their part in making this project a success.”
“Construction of the final cleanup rem-
edy was completed a full year ahead of schedule and significantly under budget,” said Flaherty. “Much of the credit for the progress we have experienced can be traced directly to the solid team at EPA and the engaged community of Olathe.” 
In addition, the team did not receive a 
single complaint about noise, dust or traffic from nearby residents during construction activities. The EPA now includes lessons learned from the CCI project in presenta-tions to its managers about how other sites can implement similar strategies.
Flaherty said the remediation team has 
learned valuable lessons of its own. “Work-ing closely with all of the stakeholders, lis-tening to their concerns and real teamwork are what resulted in the ultimate success of the project.”
 
Click to launch video on the websiteA unique restoration project
PHOTO: BOEING. Joe Flaherty is the Remediation project 
manager for cleanup of the Chemical Commodities, Inc. Superfund site near Kansas City. The project team worked with the community and government agencies to complete construction of the cleanup remedy ahead of schedule and under budget.Boeing has reduced its environmental footprint at a time of  
significant business growth. We continue to work toward our 
five-year goal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, energy use, 
hazardous-waste generation and water intake by 25 percent on a revenue-adjusted basis and by 1 percent on an absolute basis. While our unprecedented increases in airplane production have 
made these goals more challenging, we remain on track to achieve 
the targeted absolute reduction on most measures and expect our revenue-adjusted improvements will still reach the mid to high 
teens.
On an absolute basis, Boeing has reduced CO
2 emissions  
by 3 percent, energy use by 1 percent, hazardous waste by  
17 percent and water intake by 9 percent since 2007.
On a revenue-adjusted basis, Boeing has reduced CO2 emis-
sions by 7 percent, energy use by 4 percent, hazardous waste by 19 percent and water intake by 12 percent since 2007. In 2011, 
76 percent of the solid waste we generated was diverted from landfills — a 31 percent improvement since 2007.  
Data reported in this section reflects environmental perfor -
mance at the following sites, which represent the vast majority of Boeing’s operations in the United States:Alabama: HuntsvilleArizona: Mesa
California: Anaheim; El Segundo; Huntington Beach; and Boeing 
Defense, Space & Security operations in Long BeachKansas: Wichita Missouri: St. Charles and St. Louis
Oregon: Portland
Pennsylvania: PhiladelphiaTexas: Houston and San Antonio
Washington: Auburn, Developmental Center, Everett, Frederick-
son, Kent Space Center, Moses Lake, North Boeing Field, Plant 2, Renton and Thompson
In some cases, data from additional sites and office locations 
are included. When that occurs, it is indicated in the footnotes ac-
companying data tables and graphs. 
The graphs in this section are labeled with information rounded 
to the nearest decimal place. However, graphs throughout this En-vironment Report are calculated using whole values. Consequently, 
some slight variation may occur for the purpose of creating visual presentations.Our Results
Performance
Summary of Environmental Performance (2007–2011)BOEING 2012 ENVIRONMENT REPORT
16 » To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment* 2007–2010 ENERGY AND CO2 VALUES have been restated to reflect the addition of PDX (Portland), Ore. 
* 2007–2010 CO2 emission numbers are adjusted to reflect the use of U.S. EPA regional 2010 eGRID factors. 
 Revenue  
(U.S. dollars in millions)
Employment 
(year end)
Deliveries 
(commercial airplanes and defense  new-build production aircraft)
Energy consumption 
(in millions of MMBTUs or trillions of British Thermal Units)
CO
2 emissions 
(in millions of metric tons)Water intake 
(in billions of U.S. gallons)
Hazardous waste 
(in thousands of U.S. tons generated)
Solid waste diverted from landfills 
(as a percentage of total nonhazardous 
solid waste generated)
Environmental fines 
(U.S. dollars in millions)2007
$66,387 
159,313 
552 
 
12.97
1.29 
1.83 
8.99 
58% 
 
$0.4722008
$60,909 
162,191 
474 
 
12.71
1.25 
1.81 
7.71 
64% 
 
$0.0242009
$60,281 
157,073 
602 
 
12.67
1.25 
1.71 
8.15 
68% 
 
$0.0282010
$64,306 
160,537 
577 
 
12.27
1.21 
1.63 
6.94 
73% 
 
$0.6472011
$68,735 
171,715 
592 
 
12.87
1.24 
1.66 
7.50 
76% 
 
$0.226Improvement 
Absolute % 
(2007–2011)
 
 
 
 
1%
3% 
9% 
17% 
31% 
 » To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environmentDuring the past year, Boeing began 
tracking the environmental footprint at 
our new manufacturing complex in North 
Charleston, S.C. In 2011, we tracked carbon dioxide emissions, energy con-
sumption, water intake, hazardous-waste 
generation at several — but not all — of our facilities in South Carolina, including 
the 787 final assembly building and the 
airplane delivery center. Where data from South Carolina is included in this report, it 
is noted in the footnotes. We anticipate that 
our 2013 Environment Report will include data for all of our South Carolina opera-
tions.
 Our Results
PerformanceBOEING 2012 ENVIRONMENT REPORT
17Performance continued from P16
When an employee switches on a light in 
Building 270 at Boeing’s site in St. Louis, en-
ergy managers want him or her to know how that simple action could have a big impact on energy use.
“Part of the education about energy use 
was to tell employees that if a person came to work on Saturday and turned on the lights, it turned on the lights and the heating or air-conditioning system for the entire floor,” said Bryan Kury, senior manager for Boeing’s con-servation efforts. “One person working eight hours on a Saturday could use enough energy to power 250 homes.” 
Kury believes helping employees see 
the connection between their behavior and a building’s energy profile and costs is a big reason for the success of the initiative, which reduced energy consumption in the building by more than 12 percent in 2011 and reduced utility costs by $100,000. The 520,000-square-foot (48,310-square-meter) office building has more than 2,000 occu-pants. 
The U.S. Environmental Protection  
Agency recognized the achievement in 2012 by awarding Building 270 the first ENERGY STAR certification at the St. Louis site.
The building’s energy management team 
and an Employee Involvement team worked together to design a plan to reduce electricity and water consumption by, in part, adjusting employee, maintenance, housekeeping and system schedules, including:• Automatically turning off lights and the     heating, ventilation and air-conditioning     systems at 6:30 p.m. weeknights and all day  
   Saturday and Sunday. • Directing employees working on site after-    hours to hoteling stations. • Rescheduling housekeeping tasks that     previously happened in the evening, such as     restroom cleaning, to daytime hours.
The energy plan includes separating the 
building’s energy management systems by zones and sections to improve overall effi-ciency. 
“The initiative works in part because we 
have helped make energy consumption more visible,” said Christopher Van Gels, a senior manager for site operations. “People who work later hours or want to work weekends see the changes; the building’s lights and air go off at a certain time. It’s not behind-the-scenes maintenance.” 
Kury agrees and said employee feedback 
has been positive. “I think our communication and education efforts have helped people un-derstand that turning off a light not in use can help us cut costs and be more competitive, while helping the environment. It’s a big part of the program’s ongoing success.”
 
PHOTO: BOEING. Christopher Van Gels, left, Bryan Kury, 
and Pam Tanner, energy conservation leaders at Boeing’s St. Louis site, believe helping employees see the connec-tion between their behavior and energy use is a big reason for the success of the “building 270 energy initiative,” which reduced energy consumption by more than  12 percent in 2011.Small actions build big results 
Since 2007, Boeing’s absolute CO2 emissions have decreased 
by 3 percent. On a revenue-adjusted basis, Boeing has reduced 
CO2 emissions by 7 percent since 2007.
Boeing’s absolute CO2 emissions increased by 3 percent in 
2011 compared with the previous year. This increase is largely a result of increased production rates of commercial airplanes.This year, Boeing contracted with the international consulting 
firm of Det Norske Veritas to provide third-party verification. Det Norske Veritas provided limited assurance of the greenhouse gas 
emissions data Boeing submitted to the Carbon Disclosure Project using the guidance provided in ISO 14064.
 Our Results
Carbon Dioxide EmissionsBOEING 2012 ENVIRONMENT REPORT
18 » To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment
Carbon Dioxide Emissions
Absolute
 Improved by 3% since 2007
Revenue Adjusted
 Improved by 7% since 2007
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
0
0.25
0.5
0.75
1
1.25
1.5
Metric Tons (in Miilions)
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
Metric Tons / $ Million
• Also includes data from Bellevue, Wash., South Park, Wash., Longacres Park, Wash., Spares Distribution Center, Wash., Duwamish Office Park, Wash.,  
   Chicago Corporate Headquarters, Boeing Commercial Airplanes operations in Long Beach, Calif., Seal Beach, Calif., West Hills, Calif., PDX (Portland), Ore.,  
   and North Charleston, S.C. • 1 metric ton = approximately 2,204.62 pounds. • CO
2 emissions are calculated based on consumption of electricity, natural gas and fuel oil. Our facility in Philadelphia is the only major U.S. site that uses  
   fuel oil for heating. Consumption of other fuels is not represented. • 2011 emissions from purchased electricity are calculated using regional 2010 U.S. EPA regional eGRID electricity CO
2 factors (representing energy profile). 
• 2007–2010 CO2 totals have been adjusted to reflect the use of 2010 U.S. EPA regional eGRID factors. 
• 2007–2010 data has been restated to reflect the addition of the PDX (Portland), Ore., site. • The facility in North Charleston, S.C., has made arrangements to pur chase Renewable Energy Credits and is considered a zero-emission site for electricity.  
   Accounting methodology for CO
2 emissions from its natural gas consumption is consistent with other Boeing sites. Since 2007, Boeing’s absolute energy use has decreased by  
1 percent. On a revenue-adjusted basis, Boeing has reduced  
energy use by 4 percent since 2007.
Boeing’s absolute energy consumption increased by 5 percent in 2011 compared with the previous year. This increase is attribut-
able to increased production rates of commercial airplanes and the 
addition of new facilities in Portland, Ore. and South Carolina.  Our Results
Energy UseBOEING 2012 ENVIRONMENT REPORT
19 » To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment
Energy Use
Absolute
 Improved by 1% since 2007
Revenue Adjusted
 Improved by 4% since 2007
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
0
2.5
5
7.5
10
12.5
15
MMBTU (in Millions)
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
MMBTU / $ Million
• Also includes data from Bellevue, Wash., South Park, Wash., Longacres Park, Wash., Spares Distribution Center, Wash., Duwamish Office Park, Wash.,  
   Chicago Corporate Headquarters, Boeing Commercial Airplanes operations in Long Beach, Calif., Seal Beach, Calif., West Hills, Calif., PDX (Portland), Ore.,  
   and North Charleston, S.C. • Energy use is calculated from consumption of electricity, natural gas and fuel oil. Our facility in Philadelphia is the only major U.S. site that uses fuel oil for  
   energy. Consumption of other fuels is not represented. • 2007–2010 data has been restated to reflect the addition of the PDX (Portland), Ore., site. Since 2007, Boeing has reduced absolute hazardous waste 
generation by 17 percent. On a revenue-adjusted basis, Boeing 
has reduced operational hazardous waste by 19 percent since 
2007.
Boeing’s absolute operational hazardous waste increased by  8 percent in 2011 compared with the previous year. This increase is attributable to increased production rates of commercial air -
planes.  
Hazardous waste data does not include waste derived from 
construction or remediation activities.
 Our Results
Hazardous WasteBOEING 2012 ENVIRONMENT REPORT
20 » To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment
Hazardous Waste
Absolute
 Improved by 17% since 2007
Revenue Adjusted 
Improved by 19% since 2007
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
0
2.5
5
7.5
10
U.S. Tons (in Thousands)
0
0.05
0.1
0.15
0.2
U.S. Tons / $ Million
• Also includes data from El Paso, Tex., Heath, Ohio, Macon, Ga., Salt Lake City, Utah, Palmdale, Calif., Sylmar, Calif., PDX (Portland), Ore., and North  
   Charleston, S.C. • 1 U.S. ton = 2,000 pounds.Since 2007, Boeing has reduced absolute water intake by  
9 percent. On a revenue-adjusted basis, Boeing has reduced wa-
ter intake by 12 percent since 2007.
Boeing’s absolute water intake increased by 2 percent in 2011 compared with the previous year. This increase is attributable to 
increased production rates of commercial airplanes and facility 
growth, including a 7 percent growth in employment.  Our Results
Water IntakeBOEING 2012 ENVIRONMENT REPORT
21 » To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment
Water Intake
Absolute
 Improved by 9% since 2007
Revenue Adjusted
 Improved by 12% since 2007
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
U.S. Gallons (Billions)
0
10
20
30
40
50
Thousands of U.S. Gallons / $ Million
• Also includes data from Bellevue, Wash., South Park, Wash., Longacres Park, Wash., Spares Distribution Center, Wash., Duwamish Office Park, Wash.,  
   Chicago Corporate Headquarters, Boeing Commercial Airplanes operations in Long Beach, Calif., Seal Beach, Calif., West Hills, Calif., PDX (Portland), Ore.,  
   and North Charleston, S.C. • 1 U.S. gallon = approximately 3.79 liters. In 2011, 76 percent of the solid waste we generated was di-
verted from landfills, up from 73 percent the previous year. Boeing 
has improved this measure by 31 percent since 2007. Waste is di-
verted from landfills through a combination of recycling, compost-ing and energy recovery programs. Boeing measures nonhazardous solid waste generated by our 
operations. This includes waste streams such as metals, wood, 
paper, cardboard, plastics and organic materials. It does not in-
clude hazardous waste, construction waste, remediation waste or asbestos abatement activities.
 Our Results
Solid Waste Diverted From LandfillsBOEING 2012 ENVIRONMENT REPORT
22 » To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment
Solid Waste Diverted From Landfills
Absolute
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
55%
60%
65%
70%
75%
80%
Recycle Rate• Also includes data from Bellevue, Wash., South Park, Wash., Longacres Park, Wash., Spares Distribution Center, Wash., Duwamish Office Park, Wash.,  
   Boeing Commercial Airplanes operations in Long Beach, Calif., and Seal Beach, Calif. • 1 U.S. ton = 2,000 pounds. • Recycling rate is calculated by dividing the amount of nonhazar dous solid waste recycled by the total amount of nonhazardous solid waste generated. Boeing reports toxic releases to both the U.S. Toxic Release 
Inventory (TRI) and to Canada’s National Pollutant Release Inven-
tory (NPRI), an inventory of pollutant releases and recycling, on an 
annual basis.
Total releases have remained steady since 2007, while overall 
transfers of chemicals to off-site facilities have decreased 89 per -
cent during the same period. Transfers peaked in 2007, largely as a result of a transfer of old tooling and scrap metal to a recycler from our Wichita facility. 
Data for 2011 will be submitted to the U.S. and Canadian gov-
ernments after the publication of this report and will be included in Boeing’s 2013 Environment Report.
 Our Results
Toxic Release Inventory/National Pollutant Release InventoryBOEING 2012 ENVIRONMENT REPORT
23 » To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment• 2011 data will be submitted to the U.S. and Canadian governments after the publication of this report. Boeing will provide 2011 data in its next  
   Environment Report. • 14 sites report TRI and NPRI releases and transfers: Auburn, Wash., El Paso, Texas, El Segundo, Calif., Everett, Wash., Frederickson, Wash., North Boeing  
   Field, Wash., Palmdale, Calif., Plant 2, Wash., Portland, Ore., Renton, Wash., St. Louis, Mo., Sylmar, Calif., Wichita, Kan., and Winnipeg, Canada.  Releases
Total release (millions of lb)Percentage change
Normalized to revenue (lb/million $ rev.)
Percentage change from normalized
Transfer
Total transfers (millions of lb)
Percentage changeNormalized to revenue (lb/million $ rev.)Percentage change from normalized
Total release and transfers (millions of lb)
Percentage changeNormalized to revenue (lb/millions $ rev.)Percentage change from normalized2007(U.S. & Canada)0.25
0.0%
3.80%
24.07
0%3630%
24.32
804%3660%2008(U.S. & Canada)0.21
-17.8%
3.4-10%
2.57
-89%42-88%
2.78
3%46-629%2009(U.S. & Canada)0.24
-4.4%
3.6-7%
2.74
-89%40-89%
2.98
11%44-88%2010(U.S. & Canada)0.26
0.4%
4.04%
2.60
-89%41-89%
2.86
-88%44-88%Boeing employees work on every con-
tinent, with 18 international offices around 
the globe. Our largest operations outside 
the United States are based in Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom.
 
Australia  
In October 2011, Boeing filed its third 
National Greenhouse and Energy Report 
with the Australian Department of Climate 
Change. This report, which details green-house gas emissions, energy consumption 
and energy production data, must be com-
pleted by registered corporations that meet specified energy use and greenhouse gas 
emission thresholds.
For the 2010–2011 reporting period, the 
Australian government’s Clean Energy Reg-ulator released data for companies emit-
ting more than 50,000 metric tons (55,116 tons) of equivalent carbon dioxide (CO
2-e). 
Boeing Australia’s CO2-e emissions were 
calculated at 89,926 metric tons (99,126 
tons). Overall, Boeing Australia has achieved 
a 9 percent reduction in CO2-e emissions 
since the first reporting period (2008–2009), while simultaneously increasing pro-
duction rates of aerospace components.
Canada 
Boeing reports to Canada’s National 
Pollutant Release Inventory (NPRI), an in-ventory of pollutant releases, off-site dis-
posal and treatment, on an annual basis. 
Since 2007, NPRI reporting increased sig-nificantly because of an increase in airplane 
production rates, resulting in the triggering 
of additional threshold reporting require-ments. For more information, see the TRI/
NPRI page in this Environment Report.
United Kingdom 
The Carbon Reduction Commitment 
Energy Efficiency Scheme (CRC), under the U.K. Department of Energy and Climate 
Change, is a mandatory emissions trading 
scheme aimed at reducing CO
2 emissions in the United Kingdom. The CRC aims to raise awareness of energy use and incen-
tivize energy efficient operations.
For the first reporting period, April 1, 
2010, through March 31, 2011, Boeing’s total footprint emissions were 4,037 metric tons (4,450 tons) of CO
2, and CRC-  
regulated emissions were 3,895 metric tons (4,293 tons) of CO
2. Boeing opera-
tions in the U.K. consist of multiple units 
and subsidiaries. Boeing U.K. Training and 
Flight Services Ltd. operate flight simula-tors for training on Boeing aircraft at sev-
eral locations throughout the U.K. Boeing 
Defence U.K. Ltd. has employees located at multiple locations throughout the U.K. 
supporting Ministry of Defence and U.S. 
military programs.
Additionally, CO
2 emissions from  
Boeing subsidiaries Aviall U.K. Ltd., Conti-
nental DataGraphics Ltd., Jeppesen U.K. 
Ltd., and Narus U.K. Ltd. throughout the 
U.K. are also included in the Boeing U.K. 
CRC report. Our Results
International
Royal Australian Air Force F/A-18F Super Hornets from RAAF Base Amberley fly over Queensland, Australia. Boeing is the founding member of the Defence 
Industry Sustainability Forum, which acts as a single point of contact for defense contractors, regulators and partners on environmental projects such as recycling and energy reduction on defense bases.BOEING 2012 ENVIRONMENT REPORT
24 » To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environmentPHOTO: AUSTRALIAN DEFENCE FORCE» To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environmentBoeing received environment awards 
and recognition from a number of local, 
national and international organizations in 
2011. These included the following:
• S&P 500 and Global 500 Leadership  
   Indexes from the Carbon Disclosure     Project. 
• Climate Innovation Index Leader from  
   Maplecroft. • ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year from  
   the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. 
• National Top 50 Partner from the U.S.     Environmental Protection Agency Green  
   Power Partnership for Boeing South  
   Carolina. • U.S. Newsweek Green Ranking: 1 for     Capital Goods/Manufacturing, 36 overall. 
• Local water quality awards presented by  
   water treatment districts in multiple     locations including El Paso, Texas, El  
   Segundo, Calif., Kent, Wash., Long  
   Beach, Calif., Portland, Ore., Seattle,  
   Wash., St. Louis, Mo., and Wichita, Kan.Our Results
Recognition
Boeing has participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project since 2006. For the third consecutive year, Boeing was named to the 2011 Carbon Disclosure 
Leadership Index. Boeing’s 2011 submittal is available here, or read the 2011 Report. We will post our 2012 data after the information is submitted to the Carbon Disclosure Project.. PHOTO: BOEINGBOEING 2012 ENVIRONMENT REPORT
25Plugging in for a cleaner drive
It started when the owner of one elec-
tric Nissan Leaf at Boeing’s site in El Se-
gundo left a note on the windshield of an-other electric Leaf. Before long, that grew into a small network of electric vehicle (EV) owners who began to rally support for an on-site EV charging station.
“Suddenly there were six or seven of us 
who thought we should get together and take steps to become more self-reliant and not have to worry about charging our cars at a different location,” explained Erik Dae-hler, senior manager at the Boeing satellite plant in Southern California.
Their efforts paid off when El Segundo 
was chosen as one of four Boeing loca-tions included in a year-long pilot project of on-site charging stations for employee-owned EVs. 
Each station can charge up to four ve-
hicles at a time, and a typical EV battery 
needs five to six hours to fully recharge. Daehler said the station is often full, but EV owners sup-port each other. “One day you get an email that says, ‘Hey, I’m in a pinch and need to borrow one of the stations.’ Somebody runs out and moves their car for another owner to come in.”
Currently, Boeing has a small pilot project in 
four states — Arizona, California, Oregon and Washington — to assess employee interest in recharging their EVs while at work. The recharg-ing station in El Segundo is the most-used site in the pilot, which doesn’t surprise Daehler.
“I think it’s partly because the people who 
work in the satellite group in El Segundo tend to embrace technology and be early adopters. Our commute also is perfectly suited for an EV, which can drive up to 60 miles on a full charge,” he said.
The EV owners also believe the charging sta-
tions are important signs of Boeing’s commit-ment to the environment and to be a technology leader. “Other high-tech companies like Google encourage their employees to drive EVs. It’s important for Boeing to be seen as a forward-leaning technology company,” said Leo Chan, system test engineer and an EV owner. 

PHOTO: BOEING. Boeing has installed EV charging stations 
at four locations as part of a year-long pilot project of on-site charging facilities for employee-owned EVs. The program will be reviewed in late 2012 and possibly expanded to other sites.The Boeing Company  
100 North Riverside 
Chicago, Illinois 60606 www.boeing.com/environment 
 Copyright © 2012 Boeing. All rights reserved. 218711For more information about The Boeing Company, visit www.boeing.com and the sites below: 
2011 Report
CITIZENSHIPBoeing Corporate
WWW.BOEING.COM/CITIZENSHIP2011
2012 Environment Report
www.boeing.com/environmentMore Info
2011 Boeing Annual Report
www.boeing.com/companyoffices/financial 2011 Corporate Citizenship Report
www.boeing.com/companyoffices/abou-tus/community/2011_report/