Build a Better  
PlanetThe Boeing Company 
2014 Environment ReportThe Boeing Company
Boeing is the world’s largest aerospace 
company and leading manufacturer of com -
mercial airplanes and defense, space and 
security systems. The top U.S. exporter, 
Boeing supports airlines and U.S. and allied government customers in more than 150 countries. Our products and tailored 
services include commercial and military 
aircraft, satellites, weapons, electronic and defense systems, launch systems, advanced information and communication systems, and performance-based logis -
tics and training. With corporate offices in Chicago, Boeing employs more than 168,000 people across the United States and more than 65 countries. In addition, our 
enterprise leverages the talents of hundreds 
of thousands of skilled people working for Boeing suppliers worldwide.Contents   
Our Approach  1
Designing the Future  5
Innovating to Zero  1 7
Inspiring Global Collaboration  2 6
Performance  36At Boeing, we aspire to be 
the strongest, best  and 
best-integrated  aerospace-  
based company in the world— for today and tomorrow.
Cover photo:  
Boeing is building a better planet thanks to innova -
tions such as the world’s first all electric propulsion satellite. The all-electric propulsion design of the 702SP (small platform) satellites gives custom -
ers new flexibility and next-generation tech -
nology for increased performance, more affordable launch options and the ability to nearly double payload capacity. (Boeing image)
Photo above:  
With all-new engines and composite wings, the 777X will be the largest, most efficient twin-engine jet in the world.2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  1Last year, we expanded our modern and fuel-efficient 
family of commercial airplanes with the launch of the 787-10 and the new 777X—airplanes that will fly passengers 
farther, in more comfort and with significantly reduced 
emissions than the airplanes they replace. We are also investing in a cleaner future through our research into lightweight materials, advanced aerodynamics, 
sustainable new fuel sources, and hybrid-, solar- and 
electric-powered aircraft (all delivering greater efficiency with reduced or no greenhouse gas emissions).
For example, our Phantom Eye liquid hydrogen–powered 
unmanned aircraft, which produces only water as a 
byproduct, earlier this year earned its experimental 
status—a major milestone in bringing this capability to market. In developing technology innovations that dramatically improve our products’ fuel efficiency, we 
have increased revenues and earnings by approximately 
35 percent over the past four years and secured a backlog of customer orders valued at nearly half a trillion dollars.
And within the walls of our factories and offices, we 
continue to accelerate improvements in environmental 
performance. After achieving our first five-year set of absolute-reduction targets, we are committed to zero growth in water consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, 
hazardous waste and solid waste to landfill—even as our 
business continues to grow.
Every day, as Boeing employees are exploring new ways 
to build a bigger, better Boeing, we are also striving to build a better planet—by improving the environmental 
performance of our company, our industry and our 
communities worldwide.Our Approach:
Leadership Message
Every day, Boeing employees 
find new and innovative 
ways to serve our global 
customers, and they are also committed to responsible 
environmental leadership—
both in our products and in how we manufacture, deliver 
and support them. As we 
look forward to our second century, we see continued 
business growth in markets 
we intend to lead. We are building a bigger and better 
Boeing across the breadth 
and depth of our businesses and our communities, and we 
are focused on helping build a 
better planet.
Jim McNerney   chairman and chief executive of ficer, The Boeing Company, and Ursula English, vice president, 
Environment, Health & Safety (Boeing photo)2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  2Air travel is an essential and inspirational part of modern 
life: it helps drive economic growth and prosperity, brings people around the world closer together and opens the 
door to new life experiences. And our industry continues 
to grow. According to the International Air Transport Association (IATA), every day more than 8 million people fly to their destinations, and thousands of cargo and 
defense aircraft also take to the skies. Boeing expects 
this trend to continue over the next 20 years, with world passenger traffic projected to grow 5 percent annually and the commercial airplane fleet expected to nearly double by 2032.
We are committed to responsible environmental 
leadership as we serve our customers and as our business and industry grows. Our strategy to achieve this is made up of three tenets: Designing the Future, 
Innovating to Zero and Inspiring Global Collaboration.
Boeing is committed to offering the most advanced 
and fuel-efficient family of airplanes and services to our customers and to:
  Conducting operations in compliance with applicable 
environmental laws, regulations, and Boeing policies and procedures.
  Pr eventing pollution by conserving energy and 
resources, recycling, reducing waste and pursuing other source reduction strategies.
  Continually impr oving our environmental management 
system.
  W orking together with our stakeholders on activities 
that promote environmental protection and stewardship.
We are continually researching new, innovative 
technologies to improve our company’s and our 
industry’s environmental performance. That includes improving operational efficiency for our customers with digital tools; using advanced, lightweight materials and 
improved aerodynamics to reduce our products’ fuel 
consumption; developing and commercializing new sustainable fuel sources; developing hybrid, solar and electric-powered aircraft; accelerating the efficiency of our facilities; and working with institutions, governments 
and stakeholders to build cleaner communities 
worldwide.Our Approach:
Environmental Policy and StrategyInnovation and technology 
are at the heart of what we 
do at Boeing, and they are 
fundamental to continual environmental improvement. 
As a company, we understand 
that environmental responsibility is crucial to our long-term 
success and our second 
century in business.2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  3Reviews of the company’s environmental policies and 
strategies are conducted twice a year with the EHS Policy Council, in addition to other internal executive 
reviews conducted across the company on an ongoing 
basis. One council meeting is focused on target setting, aligned with corporate long-range business planning; the other meeting is focused on detailed planning and 
performance review.
Environmental initiatives are embedded into every 
organization and function within Boeing. The EHS organization works with our business units and operational leaders to drive an integrated, enterprisewide 
strategy that includes our products, services, processes 
and operations. The EHS organization also contains functions focused on workplace safety and health, environmental performance and regulatory compliance.
The continual improvement of the environmental 
performance of our products and operations is the result of this highly integrated and coordinated approach.Our Approach:
GovernanceOur company’s environmental 
strategy and policies are 
guided by the Environment, 
Health & Safety (EHS) Policy Council, which is composed 
of Boeing’s Executive Council 
and is led by the chairman and chief executive officer. 
The Policy Council ensures 
that strategy and performance targets  are set and monitored. 
Climate change issues and environmental performance targets and programs are 
reviewed within the context of 
Boeing’s business, product and process policies.2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  4We highlight our objectives, results, accomplishments 
and business relevancy in the following four areas: Design the Future, Innovate to Zero, Inspire Global 
Collaboration and Performance. Whenever possible, 
we provide relevant environmental information for the corresponding time period for our operations.
We have expanded the scope and depth of the 
information reported in the Performance section, as our 
environmental programs have matured and expanded, and to reflect valuable stakeholder feedback. The data presented in our Performance section undergo an internal audit review to verify data collection and 
authentication processes. Additionally, the data 
representing our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions is verified by DNV Certification Inc. with limited assurance. More information about each data set is available in the 
corresponding footnotes located within the Performance 
section.
Forward-looking Statements This report contains 
“forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 
Words such as “may,” “should,” “expects,” “intends,” 
“projects,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates,” “targets,” “anticipates” and similar expressions are used to identify these forward-looking statements. Examples of 
forward-looking statements include statements relating 
to our future financial condition and operating results, as well as any other statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and 
assumptions, which may not prove to be accurate. 
These statements are not guarantees and are subject to risks, uncertainties and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Many factors could cause actual 
results to differ materially and adversely from these 
forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning these and other 
factors can be found in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our most recent 
Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on 
Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made, and we assume no obligation 
to update or revise any forward-looking statement, 
whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.Our Approach:
About this ReportThis report reflects the 
company’s environmental 
activities and progress to our 
targets over the past year.2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  5787 Dreamliner The Boeing 787 DreamlinerTM is the 
most advanced and efficient commercial airplane in 
its class, setting new standards for environmental 
performance and passenger comfort. Composite 
materials, advanced engines and a new innovative wing design all help the 787 reduce fuel consumption and CO
2 emissions.
The third and longest member of the 787 family—the 787-10—will fly more than 90 percent of the world’s 
twin-aisle routes at a whole new level of efficiency. The 
airplane’s operating economics are unmatched: 25 percent better fuel use and emissions compared to airplanes of its size today and more than 10 percent 
better than anything being offered by the competition. 
First delivery of the 787-9 is scheduled for 2014, and the 787-10 is targeted for 2018.Designing the 
Future:Cleaner Products
Boeing builds and delivers 
the world’s most modern and 
fuel-efficient fleet of airplanes. 
This brings enormous value for 
our commercial and defense customers by finding new 
opportunities for efficiencies 
that cut their fuel costs and reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions while improving the 
environmental performance of the aerospace industry. With 
the launch of the 777X and 
the 787-10 in 2013, Boeing advances the world’s most 
efficient and flexible twin-aisle 
family.
Boeing offers the most modern and fuel-efficient family of new airplanes. (Boeing image)
2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  6777X In the fall of 2013, Boeing launched the 777X with 
agreements for 259 airplanes, representing the largest product launch in commercial jetliner history by dollar 
value. With all-new composite wings and all-new GE9X 
engines, the 777X will be the largest and most efficient twin-engine jet in the world—and 12 percent more fuel-efficient than its competitor.
The airplane’s folding, raked wingtip and optimized span 
will contribute significantly to this greater efficiency and fuel savings.747-8 The 747-8 is 16 percent more fuel-efficient than its predecessor and delivers more passengers, more cargo and more range with lower emissions and 
noise. In 2013, Boeing delivered the first 747-8 with 
performance-improved GEnx-2B engines as part of the airplane’s Performance Improvement Package, or PIP . The two other components of the PIP program include 
flight management computer software upgrades and 
reactivation of the horizontal stabilizer tank fuel system on the 747-8 Intercontinental. Through the PIP program, 747-8 customers will use roughly 30 fewer trucks of fuel per airplane per year, a 1.8 percent improvement. 
737 MAX Boeing’s newest family of single-aisle 
airplanes—737 MAX 7, 737 MAX 8 and 737 MAX 9—
will build on the Next-Generation 737’s popularity and 
reliability while delivering customers unsurpassed fuel efficiency in the single-aisle market.
The 737 MAX will deliver the significant savings in fuel 
that airlines require for the future. The 737 MAX improves 
fuel efficiency and CO
2 emissions by an additional 14 
percent over today’s most fuel-efficient Next-Generation 
737s and 20 percent more fuel efficient than the first 
Next-Generation 737s to enter service. Design updates, 
including Boeing’s Advanced Technology winglet, also will further optimize the 737 MAX performance, especially on longer-range missions.
When compared to a fleet of 100 of today’s most fuel-
efficient airplanes, this new model will be approximately 8 percent more fuel-efficient per seat than the competition, emit 305,040 fewer tons of CO
2 and save 
more than 215 million pounds of fuel per year, which translates into more than $112 million in cost savings.
The 737 MAX will incorporate the latest quiet-engine 
technology to reduce the operational noise footprint of the airplane by up to 40 percent.
Development of the 737 MAX is on schedule with firm 
configuration of the airplane achieved in July 2013. First 
flight is scheduled in 2016 with deliveries to customers beginning in 2017.
The Next-Generation 737 program also continuously 
evaluates and incorporates value-added technologies 
and design innovations to improve performance 
The 787-9 will use 20 percent less fuel and have 20 
percent fewer emissions than similarly sized airplanes. 
(Boeing image)
Through the Performance Improvement Package, 747-8 
customers will use roughly 30 fewer trucks of fuel per airplane per year, a 1.8 percent improvement.  (Boeing image)
The 777X, with all-new composite wings and GE9X en -
gines, will be the largest and most efficient twin-engine jet in the world. (Boeing image)
Video: 787-9: Innovation Evolution  
Click here to learn more.2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  7and capabilities. Recent offerings include short-field 
performance enhancements to increase payload capacity and to reduce takeoff and landing field length; 
and carbon brakes to reduce weight for improved 
airplane operating economics. 
All-electric Propulsion Satellite Boeing is building 
the world’s first all-electric propulsion satellites. The all-
electric propulsion design of the 702SP (small platform) satellites gives customers new flexibility and next-generation technology for increased performance, more affordable launch options and the ability to nearly double 
payload capacity.
The 702SP relies exclusively on xenon (an inert, 
nonhazardous gas) for its propulsion system and builds on the success of the 702HP (high power) spacecraft hybrid propulsion technology, which uses a combination of chemical bipropellant and xenon-ion propulsion.
Production on the first 702SP satellites began in 2013, 
and testing, verification and assembly of the primary structures was completed in early 2014.
Chrome-free Defense Solutions Boeing, along 
with its customers, is committed to reducing the 
use of hazardous materials in the manufacture and maintenance of its products. The challenge is to find alternatives that meet strict safety, aircraft integrity and regulatory requirements.
Currently, Boeing is testing and using new solutions such 
as hexavalent chrome-free primers for its AH-64 Apache helicopter, the V-22 Osprey, F/A-18E/F Super Hornet and EA-18G Growler and P-8 programs. The new 
coatings meet strict requirements while reducing the use 
of hazardous chemicals in the manufacturing process.
Boeing is an industry leader in developing alternatives to 
paints and primers that contain hexavalent chromium, a heavy metal that resists aircraft corrosion but also can 
be toxic to people and the environment.
Boeing, the U.S. Navy and other customers are 
exploring other alternatives and are implementing lean manufacturing techniques to help optimize workflow and 
reduce waste.
The 737 MAX improves fuel efficiency and CO2 emissions 
by an additional 14 percent over today’s most fuel-effi-
cient single-aisle airplanes. (Boeing image)
Jackie Wu brings a creative background with a fondness 
for music to her work in acoustics engineering, which she sees as a form of art. “Acoustics is something 
that you can’t see or touch, but like music it can 
influence how it makes people feel,” said Wu, an engine acoustics engineer on the 737 MAX, the newest member of Boeing’s single-aisle family of aircraft now in development.
“It‘s a good feeling to know people will be able to hear 
the difference in the advanced engine system we’re developing for the 737 MAX.”
The new engines, manufactured by CFM International, 
will include a variety of noise-reduction technologies. 
Wu’s focus is the acoustic inlet, which is the front part of the large housing called a nacelle around the engine. The inlet conditions the airflow and includes a perforated lining on the engine’s inner wall.
“Air flows into the front of the engine and passes through 
the fan blades and other high-speed engine parts, which produce a lot of noise,” Wu explained. “We want to maximize the inlet’s acoustic treatment so it acts kind of 
like a muffler, reducing the noise before it can leave the 
engine housing.”
The acoustics research starts with analytical tools, 
acoustics theory and the experience gained from flight tests and products already in use. “My group knows this 
type of inlet works well and the general noise reduction 
we should be able to expect,” Wu said. “We scale the past research to fit the new engine and reach the final design, adding new knowledge along the way.”
Acoustics engineer Jackie Wu is part of the team  
designing quieter engines for the 737 MAX. Improve-
ments include quieter acoustic material displayed in  the foreground. (Boeing photo)You can hear the difference2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  8For engineers like Gary May, the chance to help influence 
and shape the design of a new airplane model like Boeing’s widebody 777X is an opportunity that doesn’t 
happen very often.
“As a new airplane, the 777X has more opportunities 
for change, new technology and new environmental thinking, which makes it a special experience,” said May, 
leader of the Design for Environment program.
“We consider environmental performance in the design 
and build process for every aircraft and new technology, and the 777X program is including environmental and workplace safety planning into the design as early as 
possible.”
Design for Environment is a systematic design approach 
that minimizes a product’s environmental footprint and meets quality, cost and performance requirements set 
by the customer and Boeing. It reduces a product’s 
environmental impacts over its life cycle, from raw materials and manufacturing to in-service operation to the end of service.May said environmental requirements and criteria are now included in the standard “gated” development process for the 777X. “Gated” refers to a disciplined 
process with steps and criteria for moving forward. 
It ensures that the program gains a sufficient level of maturity before it proceeds to key milestones, such as design completion, production and entry into service.
The strategy for getting environmental thinking into 
the aircraft’s design is to provide engineers with the expertise and resources to make smart choices, May said. “We don’t expect every engineer to be an environmental expert. We need them to be aware their 
decisions affect the environment,” he said.
Design for Environment principles consider several 
environmental performance measures: global emissions, energy, sustainable materials, community noise, local 
emissions and water.
“By building more efficient aircraft and reducing fuel use, 
we cut greenhouse gas emissions in several ways and save significant amounts of water,” said May.
May said the goal is to help educate the engineering 
workforce to think with a broader environmental life cycle 
mindset. Specific improvements from design decisions could include:
  Reducing drag from passenger windows, thus boosting efficiency and saving fuel.
  Giving customers the means to identify the optimal amount of onboard potable water needed, thus reducing unnecessary water weight and saving fuel.
Although substantial design resources are focused on the 777X and other in-development aircraft, such as the 737 MAX, May said environmental planning and strategy never end. “We want our products and operations 
and services to be the best they can be. We’re always 
looking forward to the next new airplane,” May said.
“It’s how Boeing aircraft continue to set the standard for 
environmental performance.”
Engineer Gary May is bringing Design for Environment 
principles early in the development of Boeing’s newest 
commercial aircraft. (Boeing photo) Better by designWu’s team then develops the engineering and geometric 
requirements that will guide the inlet’s manufacture. Noise-reduction technology is also applied to the thrust 
reverser and chevrons, the signature wavy section at 
the exit of the nacelle. “The new technology is quite different from the Next-Generation 737. The noise improvements over the current generation of engines will 
be substantial,” Wu said.
The 40 percent smaller community noise footprint is 
expected to be welcome news for Boeing customers and people living near busy airports. “Airlines face stricter noise regulations at airports around the world, 
especially in densely populated areas,” Wu said.
Wu’s team will continue its work until the first major test 
of the new engine before the airplane’s entry into service. “We will hang a single engine on a huge test fixture and set up microphones all around it,” Wu explained.
“The engine is run through its full performance range 
and we measure the noise. That’s when we see how it 
compares to what we have been predicting.”
Boeing and CFM engineers then continue engine 
development and refinement until the official certification process, which includes static and flight tests, leading 
up to airplane delivery in 2017.
Wu enjoys every step of the long and sometimes 
complicated process. “It’s the combination of planning, design and seeing it all come together in a finished product that is really cool for me,” Wu said. “You can 
actually hear the difference. I feel good that Boeing is 
committed to finding new ways to shrink our aircrafts’ noise and environmental footprint.”2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  9Engineer Joe Finn has learned that reaching major 
environmental milestones and research breakthroughs takes commitment and a lot of patience. For example, 
this spring, the V-22 Osprey vertical lift aircraft became 
the latest Boeing military product to receive a paint primer that is free of hexavalent chromium, or chrome.
“In this research we know it’s going to take time. We 
make continuous progress and improvements step by 
step; we learn as we go,” said Finn, senior engineer in the chemical technology group at Boeing Philadelphia. Boeing and the aerospace industry began researching environmentally responsible replacements for chrome-
based paints and primers in the 1990s.
The Philadelphia site is home to the V-22 and the CH-47 
Chinook helicopter programs. Boeing began using a chrome-free primer on the Chinook helicopter in 2010. 
Since then, the new primer has been approved for 
Engineer Joe Finn helps lead successful efforts to de -
velop chrome-free paints and primers for the Chinook 
helicopter and V-22 Osprey tiltrotor aircraft at Boeing Philadelphia. (Boeing photo)Not just a paint jobEngineer Holly Murphy can watch Boeing’s latest 
and most innovative satellite come together in an El Segundo, California, factory and remember when the 
technology was just an idea on a piece of paper.
“We started several years ago talking about and 
wondering what we possibly could build. Today I can walk along the manufacturing floor and see the satellite 
and hardware. It’s a very rewarding feeling,” said Murphy, 
engineer in the Satellite Development Center in Boeing’s Space & Intelligence Systems group.
“My whole team is proud that we designed a product 
that will be better for the environment than previous 
generations of satellites.”
Murphy leads the development and manufacturing of the 
platform hardware for Boeing’s first all-electric-propulsion satellite—the 702SP (small platform.) Most satellites use 
a chemical propulsion engine to get to their final orbit 
position. The 702SP is fueled exclusively by xenon, an inert, non-hazardous gas.The satellite uses solar panel generated electricity to power the electric thrusters which ionize the xenon gas to generate propulsion. “The all-electric propulsion 
enables us to reduce the amount of hazardous 
material present during the satellite’s manufacture and operation,” Murphy said.
The 702SP also is a smaller, lighter design, which means 
that two satellites can be stacked one on top of the 
other in a rocket for a double launch. Murphy said a dual manifest launch is more efficient and reduces customers’ costs.
The innovations and benefits don’t stop with the 702SP . 
“A lot of what we’re learning on this satellite can be 
applied to other product lines,” she added.
The solar panels are built by Boeing subsidiary 
Spectrolab. The satellite is scheduled to be delivered to 
the customer by mid-2015.
The varieties of challenges that come with developing 
a new product are what Murphy enjoys most about the job. “I like working with a diverse group of people that gets to tackle hard and different problems every day; 
I’m always learning,” she said. “We have the freedom to 
challenge the way the company does business and try to do things better.”
One way Murphy’s team is doing things better is by 
designing a satellite that will help Boeing improve its 
environmental footprint, she said.
“We need to consider the Earth is here for all of us. I try 
to do my part where I can, such as in driving a plug-in hybrid electric car to work every day,” Murphy said.
“From a business and environmental perspective, it’s 
all about innovation—doing things smarter and better. The 702SP has a role to play in providing a cleaner alternative to other satellites, and it’s something we all 
can be proud of.”
Engineer Holly Murphy is helping guide development 
of Boeing’s first all-electric-propulsion satellite, being 
assembled in El Segundo, California. (Boeing photo)Propelling toward a cleaner future2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  10other military and commercial aircraft. In May, the first 
V-22 used the new primer for specific sections of the fuselage.
“The footprint of chrome on an aircraft is large because 
there is so much metal, especially on surface areas such as the fuselage. But chrome has dozens of applications,” Finn said. Hexavalent chromium has been widely used 
by the aerospace industry to prevent corrosion on metal 
aircraft structures and parts.
Each military aircraft is manufactured under its own 
contract with unique customer requirements and technical specifications. Alternative materials and 
technologies such as chrome-free primers approved 
for one product cannot automatically be transferred to another aircraft. It takes extensive testing and verification of performance, Finn said. 
Over the past several years, paint manufacturers have 
made good progress in developing options for chrome-free coatings, Finn said. Government customers, such as the U.S. Navy, also added the use of chrome-free paints and primers to their product specifications.
When an industry-developed chrome-free primer gets 
government approval for aerospace use, Boeing then conducts its own testing and evaluation to ensure that the material meets the company’s performance requirements and criteria. A replacement option may not 
be suitable for all applications, Finn said.
“We currently use chrome-free paints and primers only 
on aircraft sections that are easy to access and inspect. The ability of Boeing and the customer to monitor its 
performance is critical,” Finn said. “Then over time you 
can understand how well it’s doing and implement the replacements in other aircraft areas prone to corrosion.”
Finn said there also is close collaboration among 
programs and sites across Boeing, and research 
progress is widely shared. Additional replacements for 
chrome-based materials are likely to be approved by year-end.
The partnerships and collaboration are what Finn finds 
especially satisfying about his work. “Talking to people 
across the company about these kinds of technical issues is very exciting,” Finn said.
“Boeing really cares about the integrity of its products, 
and that includes safety and the environment. I think 
we’re building the best aircraft in the world.”2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  11Boeing is also accelerating the development and 
testing of new technologies bringing fuel efficiency and environmentally progressive advancements for our 
customers and our communities around the world.
ecoDemonstrator Program The Boeing 
ecoDemonstrator Program is focused on accelerating the testing, refinement and completion of new 
technologies to improve aviation’s environmental 
performance. It also looks for opportunities to improve environmental sustainability across the airplane’s life cycle: from design and manufacturing to in-service operations and end of service. Boeing has partnered 
with selected suppliers, airlines and government 
agencies on this multiyear program, including NASA and the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration Continuous Lower Emissions, Energy, and Noise (CLEEN) program 
on a number of ecoDemonstrator Program activities.
Later this year, Boeing will begin using one of its own 
787 airplanes for the ecoDemonstrator Program to install and test environmentally progressive technologies to advance the goals of reducing emissions, improving 
fuel efficiency, reducing noise, using more sustainable 
materials, and making flight paths more logical and efficient. Some of the technology is hardware installed on the airplane; some of it is advanced software or 
instrumentation. Boeing plans to use a 757 platform for 
testing in 2015 for the ecoDemonstrator Program.Designing the 
Future:New Technology
As a technology and innovation 
leader, Boeing is investing to 
improve the fuel efficiency and 
environmental performance of our products, services and 
operations. The company takes 
into account environmental performance at every step 
of a product’s life cycle—
from materials, design and manufacturing, through in-
service use and end-of-service 
recycling and disposal. We call this strategy Design for 
Environment .
Boeing’s ecoDemonstrator Program is identifying opportunities to improve environmental sustainability across an 
airplane’s life cycle: from design and manufacturning to in-service operations and end of service. (Boeing photo)2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  12Digital Aviation Until recently, pilots often carried heavy 
flight cases with up to 50 pounds (22.68 kilograms) of navigation charts and flight manuals to guide planes to 
their destinations. Today, aviation is rapidly moving away 
from paper in favor of mobile devices that are lightweight and offer interactivity and customizable information.
Through its Digital Aviation unit, Boeing is developing 
products and services that enable more efficient flight, 
saving fuel and time, and reducing greenhouse gas emissions and operating costs. An example of this is a mobile application, developed by Jeppesen, a Boeing subsidiary, that provides all the information traditionally 
included on paper charts. The application saves fuel 
by reducing the amount of weight carried aboard the aircraft. Other examples include Wind Updates and Direct Routes, which provide customized, real-time 
information about operating speeds, altitudes and 
routings that help pilots operate airplanes with optimal efficiency. 
Hydrokinetic Power Boeing and RER Hydro of  
Montreal have signed an agreement with the government 
of Quebec to provide more than 40 hydrokinetic turbines  
that will generate about 9 megawatts of clean, 
renewable power.Once the project is completed, the St. Lawrence River 
near downtown Montreal will have the world’s largest river-generated, hydrokinetic turbine farm.
RER, which has been testing a prototype in the river 
for more than three years, will build the turbines, and Boeing will provide program management, engineering, manufacturing and supplier management expertise. 
Boeing will also service the turbines. 
Shining Solar Alternatives Spectrolab, part of Boeing 
Defense, Space & Security, is the world’s leading supplier of high-efficiency multijunction solar cells, panels for concentrated photovoltaic and spacecraft power 
systems, and airborne searchlights.
In 2013, Spectrolab set a new world record by 
producing a solar cell that converted 38.8 percent of solar energy into electricity, beating its previous own 
world record of 37 percent.
The high-efficiency multijunction solar cell was 
developed from new Boeing semiconductor bonding technology, which can be used to power spacecraft and unmanned aerial vehicles.
In early 2014, Boeing announced it would provide 
engineering, procurement and construction expertise to NRG Energy, Inc. for the island nation of Guam’s first solar power plant.
Once completed, the new solar facility will generate 
25 megawatts, enough clean energy to power 10,000 homes and offset consumption of almost 2 million barrels of fuel oil and diesel. The energy generated also will help Guam achieve its renewable energy goals by 
2015.
Recycling Composites Boeing leads the commercial 
aviation industry in increasing the use and recycling of composites. Composite materials, such as those used 
in the Boeing 787 Dreamliner
TM, allow a lighter, simpler 
structure, which increases efficiency and reduces 
greenhouse gas emissions, and do not fatigue or 
corrode like traditional metal alloys. In yachts, composite 
construction also provides the ability to develop a lighter vessel that is stronger and stiffer at the same time.
Boeing is working with ORACLE TEAM USA, winner 
of the 34th America’s Cup, to transform the science 
of sailing and of composite recycling. Along with 
Boeing will use a 787 airplane and a 757 airplane over the 
next several years to test and refine new technologies to 
improve aviation’s environmental performance.  (Boeing image)
Employees inspect a hydrokinetic turbine at the RER 
Hydro plant in Montreal. (Boeing photo)
Applications for iPads and other mobile devices save 
weight and allow pilots to filter information, providing the necessary information at the right time—making naviga-tion more efficient. (Jeppesen image)2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  13research partners, Boeing and ORACLE TEAM USA 
are collaborating to recycle 7,000 pounds (about 3,175 kilograms) of carbon fiber of USA-71, a yacht built 
for the America’s Cup campaign in 2003. Boeing and 
ORACLE TEAM USA expect to gather data about the mechanical properties, costs and time flows to recycle sailing-grade composite materials in comparison to 
aerospace-grade and automobile-grade composites.
ORACLE boat USA-71 during racing in 2003 (Gilles  
Martin-Raget/ORACLE TEAM USA photo)2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  14Phantom Eye Boeing’s high-altitude long-endurance 
unmanned aircraft, Phantom Eye, is designed to stay airborne longer than any other aircraft of its kind in 
production. Capable of maintaining altitude for several 
days, the propeller-driven, lightweight aircraft is  fueled by liquid hydrogen, producing only water as  a byproduct.
The six test flights conducted since 2012 have proved 
the capacities of the demonstrator aircraft, including the exceptional fuel economy of the unique liquid-hydrogen propulsion system.
In January 2014, Phantom Eye received experimental 
status from the U.S. Air Force 412th Operations Group, 
allowing for expanded testing opportunities to bring this capability to market quickly.Designing the 
Future:Future Flight
Boeing is developing innovative 
solutions and technologies 
to meet environmental 
requirements for its customers and the industry.
Technology demonstration 
projects  led by Boeing, such 
as the Phantom Eye, Subsonic 
Ultra Green Aircraft Research 
(SUGAR), and Blended Wing 
Body (BWB), are showing promise of substantially cleaner, 
quieter and more efficient flight.
The Boeing SUGAR Freeze study shows that liquefied natural gas offers improved fuel efficiency, reduced  
emissions and potential fuel cost benefits compared to traditional aviation fuels. (Boeing image)
Video: Boeing engineers help the liquid hydrogen–
fueled aircraft soar to its Experimental Aircraft  
Status by the U.S. Air Force. Click here to learn more.2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  15Sweet Solutions—SUGAR Program Boeing has 
a vision of continuous improvements in reducing fuel consumption, emissions and operating costs. Large 
span, high-aspect-ratio wing technologies show promise 
in enabling these improvements.
SUGAR is a NASA contract awarded to Boeing for 
research into subsonic commercial aircraft technology 
to meet the agency’s future environmental and efficiency 
goals in the 2030 to 2050 time frame.
Through a partnership with General Electric, Georgia 
Tech’s Aerospace Systems Design Laboratory, Virginia Tech and NextGen Aeronautics, Boeing currently is 
studying two concepts: the SUGAR Volt, run by hybrid 
electric propulsion, and the SUGAR Freeze, powered by liquefied natural gas.
The study has shown that the hybrid electric engine 
technology on the SUGAR Volt could potentially improve 
fuel efficiency and noise, as well as greenhouse gas emissions. The hybrid electric engines would allow for the typical short-range flights to use mostly electric power while keeping a supply of jet fuel on board for 
longer-range flights.
Similarly, the SUGAR Freeze study shows that liquefied 
natural gas offers improved fuel efficiency, reduced emissions and potential fuel cost benefits compared 
to traditional aviation fuels. Another unique feature of 
the Freeze is the aft fuselage–mounted electric motor. Placing the fan behind the fuselage reduces drag from the motor, thereby improving fuel efficiency.
The SUGAR program has also identified potential 
fuel savings for the truss-based wing, which could 
produce a 5 percent to 10 percent improvement in fuel consumption over the conventional cantilevered wing configurations of today. After launching in 2010, Boeing’s 
SUGAR study for NASA is expected to complete Phase 
2 in mid-2014.
The potential of Blended Wing Body aircraft 
Boeing and NASA have been studying new airplane concepts that incorporate BWB designs. The BWB concept effectively merges the vehicle’s wing and body, offering aerodynamic efficiencies over conventional tube-and-wing airplanes. The blended body helps to 
generate additional lift with less drag compared to a 
circular fuselage. A prototype BWB airplane—the X-48, configured first in a three-engine variant (X-48B) and then in a two-engine variant (X-48C)—was flown more 
than 100 times during a successful flight-test program, 
which concluded in 2013.
Designed by Boeing, built by Cranfield Aerospace Ltd. and flown in partnership with NASA and the U.S. Air Force Research Laboratory, the X-48 is a scale model 
of a heavy-lift, subsonic vehicle. Boeing believes the 
concept could be developed in the future for military applications such as aerial refueling and cargo missions.
The X-48C is now on display at the Air Force Flight Test 
Museum at Edwards Air Force Base in California, serving 
its new mission of educating and inspiring the next generation of aerospace engineers.
SUGAR Volt uses a hybrid electric propulsion system that 
can improve fuel efficiency, noise and greenhouse gas 
emissions. (Boeing image)
As an engineer in the advanced concepts group, Zach 
Hoisington thinks he just may have the best job at Boeing. “I get to explore new concepts and come up 
with aircraft ideas and see where they go. It’s the closest 
thing I can imagine to living the childhood dream of being able to make paper airplanes my whole life,” said Hoisington, part of product development in Long Beach, 
California.
Hoisington was on the team that first began researching 
advanced aircraft concepts with dramatically improved fuel efficiency and environmental performance for the NASA-funded SUGAR—Subsonic Ultra Green Aircraft 
Research—project in 2008. The team studied aircraft 
designs and technology that could potentially reduce fuel consumption and emissions by up to 75 percent by the 2030 to 2050 time frame.
Engineer Zach Hoisington helped put the SUGAR in 
Boeing’s research and development of a hybrid electric 
aircraft. (Boeing photo)SUGAR high2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  16A key to the team’s success in identifying concepts 
and candidates for new aircraft designs was the way members worked together and approached the study, 
Hoisington said. “The SUGAR project was wonderful 
because the process was so open; we could look at any idea, old or new, on a level playing field, even if the concept didn’t originate with our team,” he said.
“It is a great example of idea sharing. We wanted to 
have an unbiased look at any technology. This type of study is refreshing and brings out a better result in the end.”
The team process also allows for a high level of 
individual creativity and input. “Like with a lot of 
engineers, some of my best ideas don’t happen 9 to 5 at work; they come while I’m on a trip or vacation,” Hoisington said. “When I get back to the office I’ll 
analyze the potential and try to simulate how it could 
work.
“If an idea has merit I’ll take it to the team, we’ll look at it 
together and build on it from there,” Hoisington said.
The team analyzed ideas that cover a wide spectrum of 
engine and airframe technology, including:
  Advanced propulsion systems, such as gas turbines 
combined with electric motors, fuel cells and fuel cell-gas turbine hybrids.  Cryogenic fuels, such as hydrogen and a liquefied natural gas/methane.
  Cryogenically cooled engines and associated technologies.
  Advanced batteries.
  Open rotor/turboprop technologies.
  Conventional high-span and truss-braced wings.
Boeing and NASA are focusing continued research on several concepts, including an aircraft with hybrid electric propulsion, nicknamed SUGAR Volt, and an aircraft with a truss-braced high span wing, SUGAR High.
SUGAR program leaders say the study is providing 
Boeing and NASA with detailed information on high-
potential technologies and a road map showing 
the steps needed to get the technologies ready for applications on future aircraft.
“The SUGAR project really helped develop and mature 
these technologies to a greater level of understanding. I 
think future generations of aircraft and the environment will see significant benefits from what we’ve accomplished,” Hoisington said.2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  17Building on the demonstrated performance over the 
last five years, Boeing is committed to maintaining 2012 levels for greenhouse gas emissions, water use and solid 
waste to landfill through 2017, even as our business 
continues to grow. We also are committed to our hazardous waste generation growing at a rate no more than the rate at which our business is expanding.
Increasingly, Boeing is seeking opportunities to 
incorporate energy conservation technologies and sustainable materials into new building designs as well as to reduce the amount of water used and waste generated by our facilities. Currently, Boeing relies on 
carbon-free hydroelectric and renewable energy sources 
for nearly half our total electricity consumption.Innovating to 
Zero:Cleaner Operations
Boeing is accelerating 
improvements in the 
environmental performance  
of the company’s operations,  
as business continues  to grow.
Boeing designs all new construction and major renovation projects to meet a LEED Silver rating or higher. The 
new Everett Delivery Center is LEED Gold certified by the U.S. Green Building Council. (Boeing photo)
2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  18Carbon-free hydroelectric energy supplies more than 80 
percent of the power for Boeing’s Everett and Seattle facilities in Washington.
The North Charleston, South Carolina, site is powered 
by 100 percent renewable energy, sourced from 10 acres (4.05 hectares) of solar panels on the roof of the final assembly building, and coupled with renewable 
energy credits purchased from the local utility.
Twenty percent of the power that runs Boeing facilities in 
Southern California comes from wind energy.
This year Boeing earned the 2014 ENERGY STAR
® 
Partner of the Year Sustained Excellence award from the 
EPA for leadership in energy conservation. Boeing has 
won the ENERGY STAR award every year since 2011.
The improvements in Boeing’s operational environmental 
performance are the result of innovative projects—often led by employee teams—at our facilities across the 
globe.
LEED GOLD Delivery Center in Everett, Washington 
This year, an unprecedented number of commercial airplanes will be delivered to airline customers around the world from the delivery center in Everett, 
Washington, located next to where the majority of 
Boeing’s widebody airplanes are built. In April, as the 180,000-square-foot (16,700-square-meter) center celebrated its one-year anniversary, it also received the 
Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) 
Gold certification from the U.S. Green Building Council.
Characteristics that contributed to LEED Gold 
certification included lower energy and water use, natural lighting, and the use of recyclable and locally sourced 
materials, along with the reuse of packing materials.
The delivery and welcome center in South Carolina 
has also received LEED Gold certification, and work is underway to expand the delivery center in Renton, 
Washington, which also will meet Boeing’s LEED Silver 
standard. The new delivery center also will more than double the space that will be available for customers and Boeing groups supporting the increasing 737 commercial airplane deliveries.
Boeing designs all new construction and major 
renovation projects to meet a LEED Silver rating or higher. More than 60 percent of all Boeing LEED-certified buildings have received Gold-level certification.Solar-powered Paint Facility in Salt Lake City 
Located on the roof of the paint facility at Boeing’s Salt 
Lake City site, thousands of solar tubes collect energy from the sun, making it the first Boeing paint facility to be partially heated by solar energy.
The 35,000-square-foot (3,251-square-meter) LEED 
Silver-certified building is used for painting the horizontal stabilizer of Boeing’s 787-9 airplane. To receive the LEED Silver certification, the building was designed to include numerous large windows, which are not commonly used 
in paint facilities; a rainwater collection system; recycled 
and salvaged building materials; and enhanced heating and air controls. But it’s the 3,600 rooftop solar tubes that help heat water for the paint curing process that 
make the building unique.
Through the use of the solar tubes, energy consumption 
is expected to be reduced by 7 percent for the curing process. Boeing’s Salt Lake facility is also one of Boeing’s six zero-solid-waste-to-landfill sites.
Boeing also uses solar energy to power its facility in 
North Charleston, South Carolina. The thin-film solar installation on the final assembly building roof has a peak capacity of 2.6 megawatts, and produces enough 
energy to power 250 residential homes. It is also 
one of the largest solar installations of its type in the southeastern United States.
Video: Everett Delivery Center: A day in the making
Watch a time-lapse video of a day at the Everett Delivery Center, which is LEED Gold certified by the U.S. Green Building Council. Click here to learn more. (Boeing image)
Boeing designs all new construction and major reno-vation projects to meet a LEED Silver rating or higher. (Boeing image)
3,600 rooftop solar tubes help power Boeing Salt Lake’s 
state-of-the-art paint facility. (Boeing photo)2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  19Brighter, Energy-efficient Parking Lots in 
Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada Reducing energy use is high priority for the Boeing Canada facility in 
Winnipeg. With the construction of a new parking lot 
and entrance to the site in 2013, the Winnipeg team took advantage of the rapid improvements in light-emitting diode (LED) technology to upgrade some of its 
lighting features. Providing 34 percent more coverage, 
only 45 LED light fixtures were necessary to cover the 700-stall, 272,575-square-foot (25,323-square-meter) lot, reducing the number of light fixtures required by about half. Lower maintenance costs, longer life and 
superior energy efficiency all translate into lower energy 
requirements and costs.ISO 14001 Third-party certification to the internationally recognized ISO 14001 environmental management 
standard has strengthened our companywide focus 
on continuous improvement and enabled a common way of managing environmental processes across the company. More than 50 sites around the world, including all major manufacturing facilities, are certified 
to ISO 14001 standards. In 2013, four of our facilities 
in Australia — Brisbane, Humpty Doo, Riverina, and Townsville — all received certification for the first time. Boeing’s distribution centers and many joint ventures 
and suppliers are also ISO 14001 certified.
The 10-acre solar system at the Boeing North Charles -
ton, South Carolina, facilities continues to be one of the 
largest thin-film solar installations in the United States. (Boeing photo)
More than 50 sites around the world, including all major manufacturing facilities, are certified to ISO 14001 stan-dards. (Boeing image)
The LED lights (the white lights in background) used for 
the new parking lot in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada, make a measurable difference in lighting and energy savings, compared to the existing lights (orange-yellow lights in foreground). (Boeing photo)
2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  20Linda Thomas helps to ensure that the full range 
of Boeing’s defense and space products meet the environmental requirements of a diverse and complex 
mix of customers. It’s not a simple task.
“Boeing has contracts with nearly every branch of 
service in the U.S. Department of Defense, NASA and many international customers — hundreds of separate 
projects and programs. They are like snowflakes; no two 
are the same,” said Thomas, an engineer and Associate Technical Fellow who leads chemical risk management for Boeing’s defense and space customers.
Although each contract may have unique requirements 
and specifications, government customers have 
common environmental goals and expectations for their Boeing products, Thomas said. “Our customers look to us to ensure their aircraft can be operated in an 
environmentally responsible way anywhere in the world.”
Working with such varied and complex government 
contracts and criteria to continuously improve the environmental performance of Boeing products requires a different approach, Thomas said. For example, a chrome-free paint or primer developed for one program may not meet the specifications for a different product.
“We know that a single technology won’t meet the 
needs of every program. My goal is to provide the tools 
and technical expertise so each program can develop the best solutions,” she said. Tools include the Product Chemical Profile System, which helps identify and 
catalog the chemicals in Boeing products, a key first 
step in reducing the use of hazardous chemicals and materials.
Boeing has made substantial progress in developing 
chrome-free paints and primers, which are used on a 
variety of military products, including the AH-64 Apache 
helicopter; the V-22 Osprey tiltrotor aircraft; and the F-15E Strike Eagle, Chinook helicopter, F/A-18E/F Super Hornet and EA-18G Growler tactical aircraft. 
Environmentally responsible replacements also have 
been found for brominated flame retardants on all military product specifications.
Thomas said the key to continuing the progress is 
ensuring that hazardous material management is 
included in government contracts with Boeing from the 
start.
In addition to providing tools and expertise, Thomas 
encourages Boeing programs to collaborate closely with 
each other and with industry groups also concerned 
with reducing the use of hazardous chemicals. “I take part in global working groups and other events with the International Aerospace Environmental Group and other organizations. I update them on progress at Boeing and 
pass along other best practices to our military product 
community at Boeing.”
Thomas said even though her job is challenging at 
times, it’s also very satisfying. “I feel like I’m making a 
difference for future generations. The decisions I make 
today will affect people tomorrow,” she said. “When I see hazardous waste disposals and full landfills, I see the legacy of the past 50 years. I want the next 50 years to be different.”
Engineer Linda Thomas helps find ways to reduce the 
use of hazardous chemicals on Boeing aircraft.  
(Boeing photo)Diverse products, common goals2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  21Few people know as much about electricity use in 
Boeing’s buildings as Chris Roe. Flip on a light switch in any facility in any state and he likely can tell you where 
that power comes from, how it was generated and how 
much it cost.
“I help Boeing purchase electricity to power our buildings 
across the country. It can be an amazing puzzle of 
generation sources, utility coordination and government 
regulations,” said Roe, an engineer and energy resource leader.
Roe also helps coordinate Boeing’s energy conservation 
program, which has produced major progress in 
improving the efficiency of the company’s internal 
operations and expanded the use of renewable and low-carbon energy sources at a growing number of sites.
Boeing this year earned the 2014 ENERGY STAR 
Partner of the Year Sustained Excellence award from the 
EPA for leadership in energy conservation. Boeing has won the ENERGY STAR award every year since 2011.
On the energy supply side, Roe navigates a complex 
and varied energy marketplace where unique regulations 
govern how customers buy power and select the 
sources of energy they want.The process of buying power starts at an individual Boeing site. “I work with Boeing facilities to better understand the site’s business plan and forecasted energy need to support their particular operations,” 
Roe said. “We get a good energy forecast developed 
and start competitive procurements with different companies.”
In many locations, however, the energy market is not 
competitive but regulated, including utilities’ rates. “For 
some facilities, we can buy power only from the local 
utility. In areas that allow direct access to a competitive market, we have more flexibility in how we source our energy supply,” Roe said.
Historically, Boeing’s main criteria in sourcing power 
have been reliability and predictable pricing, not how it’s generated, Roe said.
Roe said Boeing is testing innovative strategies to better 
manage energy demand, too. “We’re looking at creative 
approaches to buildings, such as leveraging ‘big data,’ 
or real-time monitoring of all systems that use energy to help reduce demand.”
All new building construction or major remodeling is 
done to LEED Silver rating or higher, Roe said. Super-
efficient LED lighting is replacing conventional lighting technology in factories and office buildings across the company.
Roe said improvements in energy efficiency can be 
found at almost every Boeing site. Even with robust 
business growth, from 2007 to 2012 the company reduced energy consumption by 3 percent, the equivalent of enough energy to power 44,000 U.S. 
homes for a year.
But do big energy-saving projects really help change 
employees’ behavior? Roe thinks “absolutely.” “Seeing tangible improvements in the company’s environmental performance can inspire people to be more energy 
efficient and sustainable in their daily lives at work and at 
home,” he said.
“We’ve made good progress. If we can continue building 
momentum with Boeing’s 170,000 employees, I think 
we’ll be amazed at what small, everyday improvements 
can mean for our planet.”
Chris Roe works with utilities across the country to find 
the best sources of electricity for Boeing’s offices and 
factories. The power mix includes renewable energy, such as the 10 acres (4.05 hectares) of solar panels on the roof of the final assembly building at Boeing South Carolina. (Boeing photo)Energy for a brighter future2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  22With fluid body movements and a hand-held spray gun, 
engineer Brian Boutilier might look like he’s pretending to paint an unseen Boeing aircraft. But with a high-tech 
headset, computer and 3-D technology, Boutilier has 
immersed himself in a virtual reality where he sees and is learning how to correctly paint a Chinook helicopter.
“This is as close as you can get to hands-on training 
in a classroom. It’s realistic; when you pull the trigger 
it sounds like a spray gun,” said Boutilier, a research engineer at Boeing’s Philadelphia site, home to the Chinook and V-22 tiltrotor aircraft.
Boutilier and teammate engineer Emily Sprik helped 
develop a training program for aircraft painters that uses 
advanced technology to create a virtual reality painting experience with real-world benefits for the company and the environment.
“Training in a ‘virtual’ paint hangar allows painters to 
improve their skills and efficiency without wasting paint,” Sprik said. “Reducing waste and boosting a painter’s efficiency means less paint goes into the air during painting. And it helps reduce the amount of hazardous 
material on the aircraft and in the environment.”
Sprik and Boutilier discovered the virtual reality training 
equipment several years ago when they were asked by the site’s painting group to set up a hands-on remedial training program for painters who wanted to improve 
their skills. 
Sprik said the technology is a one-stop shop for training. 
“It gives you immediate feedback on your skills. We can program the system to mimic an actual project a painter 
would have on an aircraft,” she said.
“It helps a painter improve movement and muscle 
memory. And the system helps a painter avoid overspray and using too much paint, which is a real benefit for the environment.”
The site’s painters generally like the virtual reality 
experience but Sprik also noticed a generational difference in the painters’ first reaction to the equipment. “The younger painters usually have more experience with 
new technology and video games and were comfortable 
with the equipment,” she said.
“But once the more experienced painters tried the 
equipment, they could see the benefits.”
The Everett, Washington, commercial airplane factory 
now also uses the virtual reality painting technology, and 
the equipment is being studied for possible use at other Boeing sites, Sprik said.
Boutilier, who has worked at Boeing for 46 years, said 
it’s encouraging to see younger workers taking up new 
technology. Sprik agrees. “To me it’s very important that Boeing is on the cutting edge of technology development. It’s helping us improve our environmental footprint and worker safety,” she said.
Engineers Emily Sprik and Brian Boutilier demonstrate 
equipment that creates a virtual reality painting expe-
rience designed to improve the skills and efficiency of Boeing painters. (Boeing photo)Virtual reality has real-world environmental benefits2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  23Remediation activities are largely performed at sites that 
have been affected by past manufacturing activity and facilities where Boeing, or acquired companies, shipped 
chemicals or other wastes for treatment, storage or 
disposal. Comprehensive solutions oftentimes involve innovative cleanup methods and sustainable remediation practices.
Duwamish Waterway In 2013, Boeing completed 
the largest habitat restoration in the Lower Duwamish Waterway , transforming nearly one mile (1.6 kilometers) 
of former industrial waterfront into a wetland resource that improves Puget Sound salmon runs. From tufted 
hairgrass and bulrush to willows and bigleaf maple, more 
than 170,000 native plants now occupy five acres (two hectares) along the water’s edge.
Boeing is part of the Lower Duwamish Waterway Group 
along with the City of Seattle, Port of Seattle and King 
County, which are the four parties that have been leading the cleanup of a five-mile stretch of industrial waterway south of downtown Seattle. A decision on the cleanup plan for the Lower Duwamish Waterway Superfund site 
is expected from the EPA in late 2014.
In the meantime, Boeing has made significant progress 
with its “early action” cleanup work to remove contaminated sediment and restore the waterway 
bed with clean sand near the former Plant 2 site. The 
collective early action efforts of the Lower Duwamish Waterway Group will reduce contaminant risks in the sediment by half.Innovating to 
Zero:Remediation
A key tenet of Boeing’s 
remediation program is the 
invaluable input from community 
members and environmental 
groups. This, coupled with the guidance of leading 
environmental scientists and 
direction by federal and state regulatory agencies, has led to 
great progress in cleaning up 
sites to ensure the protection of human health and the 
environment. 
In 2013 Boeing completed the largest habitat restoration in the Lower Duwamish Waterway. (Boeing photo)2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  24Boeing plans to remove 165,000 cubic yards (125,400 
cubic meters) of sediment and replace it with clean sand by 2015. After the first two dredging seasons in 2013 
and 2014, Boeing is halfway toward this goal with the 
removal of 82,000 cubic yards (63,460 cubic meters) of sediment, which is enough to fill 1,100 railcars. Boeing also installed a state-of-the-art treatment system to 
clean 9.3 million gallons (35 million liters) of water that 
was removed with the sediment during the second season of dredging in early 2014. 
Santa Susana
A former federal government rocket engine test and 
energy research facility located northwest of Los Angeles, the Santa Susana Field Laboratory has a rich history of contributions to the U.S. space program. 
It sits within a vital habitat linkage between Southern 
California’s inland and coastal mountain ranges and is home to rare and protected plants and wildlife. Since acquiring its portion of the site in 1996, Boeing has made significant progress toward cleanup and 
restoration, and is moving toward the goal of preserving 
Santa Susana as open space for future generations.
In September 2013, the California Stormwater Quality 
Association awarded top honors to Boeing’s Santa 
Susana biofiltration system, which treats stormwater 
runoff while also providing habitat for pollinator species. Above ground, more than 2,000 native plants prevent water pollution and attract bees, butterflies and hummingbirds. Below ground, the biofilter is a hard-
working system that uses natural processes to remove 
pollutants from stormwater runoff—similar to the way a swimming pool filter traps dirt and debris.
Boeing, with the help of stormwater experts, has 
designed and implemented advanced stormwater 
treatment and monitoring technology at the 2,850-acre (1,150-hectare) site. In addition to the biofilter, sitewide cleanup completed to date includes:In 2013, Boeing hosted nine public meetings regarding its soil and groundwater investigation efforts, as well as bus and walking tours for thousands of community 
members.
Chemical Commodities, Inc. Boeing worked with 
community groups and enlisted the expertise of organizations, including the Pollinator Partnership, to 
transform a former chemical brokerage and recycling 
facility near Kansas City, Kansas, into ecological habitat. The 1.5 acre (0.6-hectare) Chemical Commodities, Inc. Superfund site is now the home of the Olathe Pollinator Prairie. Planted with native plants and trees 
by volunteers, it provides habitat resources for bees, 
birds and butterflies, as well as an educational and recreational resource for the local community. In 2013, the Pollinator Prairie was certified through the Corporate 
Lands for Learning program by the Wildlife Habitat 
Council and has been highlighted in a video by the EPA.
Boeing restored nearly one mile (1.6 kilometers) of former 
industrial shoreline, creating habitat to support fish and 
wildlife in the Lower Duwamish Waterway. (Boeing photo)
A walking path at the Olathe Pollinator Prairie, located 
near Kansas City, Kansas, guides visitors past multiple gardens designed to attract different species of bees, birds and butterflies. (Boeing photo)
Video:
A natural winner (Boeing image)2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  25Growing up in California’s San Fernando Valley, Art 
Lenox remembers frequently hearing the sounds of rocket engine tests at the nearby Santa Susana Field 
Laboratory. It was a time when the United States was 
enthralled with space exploration, and the testing supported virtually every major U.S. space program.
A portion of the 2,850-acre (1,150-hectare) site was 
used for government rocket engine testing and energy 
research. It has been nearly a decade since the last rocket engine was tested here, and the vision for Santa Susana now is focused on preserving the site as open space.
“Santa Susana has always felt like my backyard. The 
close proximity, combined with my love of the outdoors, is why it’s so gratifying to be part of the cleanup and preservation of the site’s natural environment and 
beauty,” says Lenox, an environmental project manager who leads the team that conducts soil and groundwater 
investigations as part of Boeing’s remediation program.
Santa Susana is home to deer, bobcats, coyotes and 
cougars, and it sits within one of the last links of a 
vital habitat linkage that connects inland and coastal mountain ranges.
With the oversight of federal and state agencies, Boeing 
has made significant progress in cleaning up Santa 
Susana to environmental standards that are tougher 
than required for open space, Lenox said. For example, Boeing recently completed a four-year soil removal project to improve stormwater quality. More than 25,000 
cubic yards (19,100 cubic meters) of affected soil were 
removed and precautions were taken to minimize the impact on streambeds and wildlife habitat.
“It is this extra level of care we take while fulfilling our 
cleanup and restoration commitments that represents 
Boeing’s environmental stewardship in action,” Lenox 
says.
Although much of the site’s remediation activity has 
relied on technology, Lenox says the key to Boeing’s 
progress is the involvement of and interaction with 
the community. “We share our open-space vision and build trust with the public by addressing concerns and answering questions,” Lenox says. “As the landscape at Santa Susana changes, it’s rewarding to see people 
enjoy the site as they attend a tour, nature walk or other 
event we sponsor.”
Santa Susana is transitioning from a historic industrial 
facility to open space, with native grasses and plants 
reclaiming the land in the footprint of former buildings. 
“I think more people are discovering what I’ve known all along: Santa Susana is a place of wonder, beauty and vast ecological value, and it will be for generations  to come.”
Environmental project manager Arthur Lenox leads the 
team testing soil and groundwater as part of Boeing’s 
remediation program at Santa Susana, California.  (Boeing photo)From space race... to open space2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  26Boeing works with organizations, institutions, 
customers and governments around the world to drive environmental improvements throughout our industry 
and across the globe. In addition, Boeing employees 
and executives work with local, national and international environmental organizations in a number of voluntary and professional capacities.
Sustainable Aviation Biofuel As part of our core 
commitment to protect the environment and support the long-term sustainable growth of aviation, Boeing is the industry leader in global efforts to develop and commercialize sustainable aviation biofuel. A new 
sustainable jet fuel is essential to reduce commercial 
aviation’s carbon emissions, reduce our industry’s reliance on fossil fuel, and reach our industry’s goal of carbon-neutral growth from 2020.
Boeing is focused on so-called “drop-in” sustainable 
biofuel, which can be blended directly with the traditional petroleum jet fuel supply with no changes to airplanes, engines or fueling infrastructure. Boeing’s goal is that by 2016, sustainable biofuel will address 1 percent of 
global jet fuel demand, equivalent to 600 million gallons 
(2,271.25 million liters) of jet fuel. One percent often represents the tipping point to show proof of concept for a new technology, leading to increased investment and 
more rapid market expansion.
Sustainable aviation biofuel can be made from organic 
sources like plants or algae, and from bio-based inedible feedstocks such as waste cooking oil, animal fat or municipal solid waste.Inspiring Global 
Collaboration:Engaging the Industry European Union
Air Traf/f_ic Ef/f_iciencyDigital Aviation Services
JapanBiofuelSpainAir Traf/f_ic Ef/f_iciencyUnited StatesBiofuelAir Traf/f_ic Ef/f_iciencyRenewable EnergyCarbon Fiber  Recycling
AustraliaBiofuelGuamSolar EnergyHong KongImproved Engine  Performance
Malaysia
BiofuelThe NetherlandsBiofuelAir Traf/f_ic Ef/f_iciencyCanadaRenewable Energy
IndonesiaEnvironmental  ConservationSaudi ArabiaSolar EnergyUAE
BiofuelChinaBiofuel Air Traf/f_ic Ef/f_iciencyComposites
ItalyEnvironmental  Education
South AfricaBiofuelUnited KingdomEnvironmental   Stewardship
BrazilBiofuelAir Traf/f_ic Ef/f_iciencyIndiaAircraft CoatingsRussiaAirline Ef/f_iciency
TurkeyAdvanced Air  Filtration
Boeing is leading global 
collaboration, finding solutions 
for complex environmental 
challenges.To learn more about how Boeing is 
engaging the industry around the world, visit the interactive map online.2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  27Boeing is focused on alternative fuel development 
that meets sustainability criteria. This includes working with feedstocks that do not adversely affect local food 
supplies, freshwater supplies or land use policies. Many 
Boeing biofuel projects also encourage social and economic development, such as new opportunities for farmers to use marginal land for sustainable aviation 
biofuel crop production.
Biofuel efforts supported by Boeing use principles 
established by the international Roundtable on Sustainable Biomaterials (RSB). These sustainability principles address greenhouse gas emissions, local food 
security, conservation, soil, water, air, and technology, 
inputs and waste management. Boeing currently has active biofuel development projects on six continents, including in the United States, Europe, China, Japan, 
Middle East, Southeast Asia, Brazil, Southern Africa and 
Australia. 
Global Approach to Aviation Emissions Because 
aviation is a global industry, with airplanes crossing 
international borders every day, Boeing believes that a global system is needed to address aviation emissions. We advocate that a global emissions framework for 
aviation can best be achieved through the International 
Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), a United Nations organization.
Boeing fully supports the ICAO position on controlling 
aviation emissions and, along with the rest of the aviation 
industry, is working toward meeting these commitments.
Working through the ICAO, aviation was the first industry 
to present a clear plan to the United Nations’ ongoing climate change negotiations. The ICAO calls for global guidelines, including the development of a CO
2 standard 
for aircraft, improvements in air traffic control systems to cut air travel–related emissions by up to 12 percent, 
and continued efforts to promote the commercialization 
of sustainable alternative fuels. These efforts all aim to achieve carbon-neutral growth across commercial aviation by 2020 and reduce the footprint after that.
In October 2013, the ICAO General Assembly in 
Montreal agreed on a road map, aligned with the aviation industry’s position, toward a global market-based approach to climate change. The ICAO agreement, reached by representatives from 191 
nations, includes a commitment that, by 2016, the ICAO 
will develop a program to cut emissions using a market-based measure, most likely through carbon offsetting during which emissions from one source can be 
counterbalanced by environmental measures elsewhere. 
A global market-based measure adopted in 2016 would take effect in 2020. Boeing believes that this ICAO agreement represents great progress toward a global approach to aviation emissions, with more steps ahead.
Commercial Aviation Operational Efficiency As air 
traffic continues to grow around the world, air navigation and management services must keep pace. Studies have shown that a modernized air traffic management 
system can improve the efficiency of all airplanes flying 
by as much as 12 percent, reducing fuel use and greenhouse gas emissions as well as saving time for passengers and aircraft operators. Cutting flight times on a global basis by just one minute per flight would 
reduce carbon emissions by 4.8 million tons (4.4 million 
metric tons) annually, according to the International Air Transport Association (IATA).
Boeing advocates for modernization of the global 
air traffic management system infrastructure and is 
enabling greater operational efficiency through support and services that provide improved airline operations, such as the Boeing Wind Updates and Direct Routes programs.
Using industry-leading technologies and Boeing-
developed algorithms, these services supply airlines with customized real-time wind and temperature information—delivered directly to the aircraft—and 
real-time information about optimal routings. The 
data generated by these programs allow for more efficient trajectory prediction during preflight operations and continuous optimization in flight by providing tailored information for flight crews and the aircraft 
flight management system. Wind Updates data 
are also individually tailored to the specific aircraft type, regardless of manufacturer, to provide optimal performance. In early 2014, Boeing and Qatar Airways 
announced a five-year agreement to provide Boeing 
Wind Updates services for the airline to maximize  in-flight operational efficiency.
Boeing is collaborating on a new initiative—BIOjet Abu 
Dhabi: Flight Path to Sustainability—to support a sustain -
able aviation biofuel industry in the United Arab Emirates. 
(Boeing photo)
2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  28Chemicals and Hazardous Materials Manufacturing 
airplanes and defense products is a complex process, involving in some cases millions of parts from around 
the world; every aircraft must meet strict safety, aircraft 
airworthiness and regulatory requirements. Increasingly, information about the use of chemicals and hazardous materials contained in products or used in production 
processes is being required to meet new requirements, 
such as the European Union regulation of chemicals called REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals).
The International Aerospace Environmental Group 
(IAEG), of which Boeing was a founding member, is 
helping the industry meet the growing and expanding requirements. To do this, IAEG is:
  Identifying the materials/substances that ar e relevant 
for reporting.
  Developing understanding among the aer ospace 
industry of environmental requirements faced by the world’s supply chain.
  Optimizing collaboration and driving integration of 
different company requirements, when possible, to create industry solutions.
  W orking through its member companies to 
conduct research to pursue the development and implementation of hazardous chemical alternatives throughout the value stream that meet aerospace 
performance and safety requirements.
As a result of the collaboration among the aerospace 
companies, a voluntary greenhouse gas reporting standard has been developed by, and for, the aerospace 
industry. The organization is also conducting a pilot 
project and survey with its member companies and numerous aerospace suppliers to develop a standard for chemical reporting for the industry. This work will ensure that the proposed voluntary standard is effectively meeting the needs of aerospace.
These new voluntary standards help improve efficiencies 
by eliminating the need for each company to develop its own system. IAEG membership has doubled since the group formally was established in June 2011, now 
representing more than 50 percent of the world’s total 
aerospace market. 
Finding Alternative Solutions Through collaboration 
with groups such as the National Center for Manufacturing Sciences (NCMS) Consortium, Boeing 
is supporting industry efforts to find alternatives for 
hazardous materials used in manufacturing and operating aircraft. Recently, Faraday Technology Inc. in Clayton, Ohio, developed a new technology with funding from Boeing, the EPA and NCMS to reduce the 
amount of hazardous chemicals in the manufacture of 
commercial and military aircraft. The work received a Presidential Green Chemistry Challenge Award from the EPA.
The new technology is a major improvement in the 
process that currently requires the use of hexavalent chromium in the coating that prevents wear and extends the service life of aircraft parts, including landing gear and hydraulic system components. The improved 
coating process will enable manufacturers to use 
trivalent chromium, a less toxic material, which delivers equal or improved performance.
The EPA estimates that use of Faraday’s new coating 
process could eliminate 13 million pounds (5.9 million 
kilograms) of hexavalent chromium waste each year in the United States and as much as 300 million pounds (136 million kilograms) worldwide.
Boeing is also leading the industry to accelerate the 
development of an industrywide non-Halon solution 
for propulsion systems fire protection through a new industry research consortium. We also are working to establish a time frame for developing cargo Halon 
replacements for the ICAO.
Through collaboration with groups such as the Nation -
al Center for Manufacturing Sciences Consortium and 
International Aerospace Environmental Group (IAEG), Boeing is supporting industry efforts to find alternatives for hazardous materials used in manufacturing and oper -
ating aircraft. (IAEG image)
Video: Air traffic management improvements 
combined with advances in aircraft design can sig-nificantly reduce fuel consumption and emissions. (Boeing image) Click here to learn more.2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  29As Boeing’s leader of biofuel strategy in the vast Asia 
Pacific region, Michael Lakeman tries to find consensus among an equally vast array of stakeholders, from 
farmers to government regulators. “It’s like a multilayered 
jigsaw puzzle where the pieces are constantly changing shape,” said Lakeman, Associate Technical Fellow and biofuel regional director for Boeing Commercial 
Airplanes.
“I try to fit all the pieces together to find the ‘sweet 
spot’ in our biofuel strategy—the right thing to do for Boeing, our customers, the aviation industry and the environment. It’s the fun part of the job for me.”
Boeing is a global leader in the research and 
development of sustainable aviation biofuel. The company’s role is as an industry catalyst and facilitator, Lakeman said. “We’re an enabler; we bring people 
together and make sure all the right people are at the 
table.”
A key component of Boeing’s strategy is to build 
consensus among stakeholders at the local and regional levels and develop a “road map” that outlines the steps 
needed to build a biofuel industry. “The road map is a 
very detailed bottom-up look at how we could build a biofuel supply chain in a specific location,” Lakeman said.
The road map looks at potential feedstocks and other 
natural resources, economic conditions and regulations. “It’s the best way we’ve found to align groups with sometimes very different backgrounds around a strategy. We invite people who have concerns or ideas into a dialog so they feel included and their voices are heard.”
The company’s first regional road map process was in 
Australasia and was followed by other sustainable biofuel “firsts” in Asia Pacific, Lakeman said. The first airline to use a drop-in biofuel blend on a commercial flight was Air New Zealand.
The Australasian road map involved airline customers, 
major scientific research groups and Australia’s defense organization. The process produced a series of recommendations, many of which were accepted by the 
national government and other stakeholders.
An example of a local opportunity for a sustainable 
biofuel supply chain is in the Australian state of Queensland. Boeing and its research partners studied an area of dry, unproductive land used mostly for cattle 
grazing.
“Farmers there have a challenge. They need to clear 
the land of native trees and shrubs, and end up burning the biomass in the field and it goes to waste,” Lakeman 
said. “Why don’t we harvest the biomass and turn it into 
biofuel and support the local economy?”
Lakeman said the Queensland government and the 
Australian defense research organization are supportive, and next steps include developing a detailed business 
plan and biomass production system.
The Australian road map was so successful that the 
strategy has been replicated around the world, including in Brazil, Mexico and the United States, with a road map 
process also being planned in Japan, Lakeman said.
The opportunities for a sustainable biofuel industry in 
Asia Pacific are part of the work’s appeal for Lakeman. “It’s an exciting region full of economic growth with a dynamic culture and people who are smart and 
optimistic,” Lakeman said. “Working with great people 
who are as passionate about this as I am is what I find most satisfying about my job.”
Michael Lakeman holds samples of algae that could be a 
good feedstock for sustainable aviation biofuel. Lakeman 
leads the Boeing biofuel program in Asia Pacific.  (Boeing photo)Global challenges, local opportunities2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  30The UAE continues to grow rapidly as a global center 
of trade, tourism and aviation. Boeing is working closely with the UAE’s Etihad Airways to develop a sustainable 
aviation biofuel industry in Abu Dhabi that will support 
further sustainable growth.
Since 2009, Boeing and Etihad Airways have partnered 
with the UAE’s Masdar Institute of Science and 
Technology to research and develop biofuel production 
using plants called halophytes, which grow in arid/desert regions and can be irrigated with seawater. In addition to the benefits for aviation, this work seeks to reduce the environmental impact of aquaculture (fish farming) while 
increasing food security in the Arabian Gulf and other 
regions with similar climates.
In January 2014, the Boeing- and Etihad-funded 
Sustainable Bioenergy Research Consortium (SBRC) at 
Masdar Institute announced research breakthroughs in 
its halophyte work, finding that halophytes will produce biofuel more efficiently than other well-known feedstock.
In early 2014, Boeing announced that it had identified a new source of biofuel for jets: “green diesel,” a renewable diesel fuel that today is used for truck transport. The company is working with the U.S. Federal 
Aviation Administration and other stakeholders to 
gain approval for aircraft to fly on green diesel, further reducing the aviation industry’s carbon emissions.Boeing researchers performed analysis that found green 
diesel, which is made from oils and fats, to be chemically 
similar to today’s aviation biofuel. If approved, the fuel could be blended directly with traditional jet fuel. This would be a major breakthrough in the availability of 
competitively priced, sustainable aviation fuel.
Significant green diesel production capacity already 
exists in the United States, Europe and Singapore that could supply as much as 1 percent—about 600 million gallons (2,271.25 million liters)—of global commercial 
jet fuel demand. The wholesale cost of green diesel—
about $3 a gallon with U.S. government incentives—is competitive with petroleum jet fuel. Green diesel, also called “renewable diesel,” can be used in any diesel 
engine, which means that, if approved for use in aviation, 
it could be used extensively by airlines, cargo operations or government agencies with ground, sea and air operations.
Boeing, the FAA, engine manufacturers, green 
diesel producers and others are now compiling a 
detailed research report that will be submitted to key stakeholders in the fuel approvals process. (Please note that green diesel is chemically different and a different 
product than the fuel known as “biodiesel.”)
Boeing and research partners in the United Arab Emir -
ates have made breakthroughs in sustainable aviation 
biofuel development, finding that desert plants fed by seawater will produce biofuel more efficiently than other well-known feedstocks. (SBRC photo)
Boeing has identified “green diesel,” a renewable fuel 
used in ground transportation, as a significant new source of sustainable aviation biofuel that emits at least 50 percent less carbon dioxide than fossil fuel over its life cycle. (Boeing photo)Biofuel from desert plants, halophytes
Green diesel2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  31As a lead research engineer for environmental 
technology at Boeing, Dr. Shanying Zeng said in one sense her job is pretty simple: “I support Boeing’s 
commitment to the environment by helping to get bad 
stuff out of our aircraft and good stuff into our products.”
Zeng is a Technical Fellow in the Chemical Technology 
Group in Seattle. She leads a group of scientists and 
engineers who are helping Boeing and the aviation 
industry find environmentally progressive alternatives for hazardous chemicals and material used in commercial and military aircraft.
One example is the chemical widely used as a flame 
retardant on surfaces and parts throughout most aircraft. 
Manufacture and import of the chemical in the United States were phased out at the end of 2013 because of concern over its effects on human health and the 
environment.
 “Finding suitable replacements for the chemical has 
been a challenge. It was used on more than 155 materials on our commercial and military products,” Zeng said. In addition to being less toxic, replacements 
must meet stringent aerospace performance 
requirements.
The focused research at Boeing and collaboration with 
suppliers and industry groups around the globe have led 
to the development of effective alternatives for 154 of 
these aircraft applications, Zeng said.“I’m confident we will have the right solutions in place as new chemical options are developed,” she said. “And we won’t stop there; we are always looking one step ahead.”
Boeing is collaborating with Texas A&M University 
on a novel flame retardant technology that involves 
environmentally progressive coatings that could be applied to existing airplane interior materials, Zeng said.
One of the biggest environmental challenges facing 
the industry, Zeng said, is reducing and eliminating 
hexavalent chromium, or chrome, a toxic metal commonly used in aircraft paints and primers to resist corrosion. Boeing has been a global leader in researching effective chrome replacements, and now 
uses chrome-free paints and primers on an increasing 
number of its military and commercial products.
Zeng is confident that sustainable materials made from 
renewable resources will find applications on Boeing 
commercial aircraft. For example, Boeing and its 
research partner Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization in Australia are developing advanced materials that could be used in an aircraft’s interior panels.
Environmental challenges facing the aerospace industry 
are bringing together airplane manufacturers, suppliers and research organizations around the globe to find solutions. Zeng is Boeing’s technical expert on the 
International Aerospace Environmental Group, which is 
developing common procedures and requirements for environmentally progressive alternatives to regulated materials, such as chrome.
Zeng’s leadership in environmental R&D has brought her 
high-level recognitions and awards, including the 2014 
Asian American Engineer of the Year, an honor given by the  Chinese Institute of Engineers – USA.
Zeng said it’s the feeling of being able to make a 
difference that makes her work at Boeing so rewarding. 
“I was part of the team that developed the carbon-fiber composite material used on the 787 Dreamliner™. Now when I see the 787 flying, I think ‘Wow, I wasn’t just doing R&D. This really is a special place to work’.”
Technical Fellow Shanying Zeng holds a sample of mate -
rial treated with a new flame retardant that will be tested 
in Boeing’s flammability laboratory. Zeng helps lead Boe-ing’s strategy to reduce hazardous chemicals in products and services, which includes testing environmentally responsible flame retardants for aircraft interiors.  (Boeing photo)Shanying Zeng: Researching a better way2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  32Through thousands of employee teams, as well as 
dozens of volunteer-based Green Teams, Boeing employees are finding ways to reduce energy and water 
use, and the generation of solid and hazardous waste.
For example, last year a 20-member employee team 
that seals the inside of wing fuel tanks on the Boeing 787 Dreamliner™ found a way to reduce its waste. In 
the past, the team consumed 50,000 AAA- and AA-
size batteries a year to power headlamp flashlights. By switching from disposable to rechargeable batteries, the team now uses just 400 batteries a year, reducing its battery waste from 18,000 pounds (8,200 kilograms) to 
approximately 2,000 pounds (900 kilograms) a year.
This is just one example of the hundreds of 
environmental improvement projects that employee teams completed in 2013. Last year, more than 70 
projects competed for Boeing’s annual conservation 
awards.Inspiring Global 
Collaboration:Employee Engagement
Boeing employees are 
constantly improving the 
way we design and build our 
products—by making them 
more efficient, cleaner, safer and higher quality. Tapping 
into employee ideas and 
enthusiasm is how Boeing makes improvements in any 
area of the business, and it’s  
no different for the environment. Every day, employees come 
up with innovative ideas for 
how to improve environmental performance—of our products, 
supply chain and operations.
A procress improvement has enabled an in-tank wing team at the Everett, Washington, Modification Center to cut 
its use of single-use batteries—and the related generation of hazardous waste—by 99 percent. (Boeing photo)
2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  33Cheryl Fievet remembers the early days of recycling at 
Boeing’s St. Louis site and sometimes has a hard time believing how far the recycling program has come in the 
past 10 years.
“We started in 2003 with a handful of employees 
pushing to recycle the plastic soda pop bottles from vending machines. We thought it was a big step forward 
just being allowed to move recycling containers indoors 
from outside in the parking lots,” said Fievet, an industrial engineer.
Through persistence, partnerships with the site’s 
facilities group and support from leadership, the 
“handful” of employees a decade later is now the Boeing 
Employees for Environmental Protection, or BEEP , with 250 members. It’s one of the largest teams of environmentally active employees at Boeing.
The St. Louis team is credited with helping establish 
innovative recycling projects that have helped Boeing reduce its environmental footprint and expand opportunities for employees to recycle and get involved with a variety of environmental activities.
Facilities manager Bryan Kury said employee 
engagement plays an important role in helping Boeing continue to improve its environmental performance. “It’s all about harnessing the power of the engaged and informed employee,” he said.
The success of the employees’ efforts can be measured 
in part by the amount of solid waste the site now 
recycles; up from 12 percent in 2007 to 67 percent in 2012. The volume of waste sent to landfills has been reduced by two-thirds. Across the company, almost 80 percent of the solid waste Boeing generated from 2007 
to 2012 was diverted from landfills.
The initial push in St. Louis to recycle beverage 
containers expanded to include other materials, including cardboard, paper, wood, empty paint and 
sealant containers, Styrofoam, and several types of 
plastic. About 4,000 pounds (1,800 kilograms) of bubble wrap is recycled each month alone.
The strong interest in recycling enables the St. Louis 
team to organize on-site events during which employees 
can bring from home used electronics and other 
household items that are donated to community groups for reuse or recycling. Athletic shoes are donated to Nike for recycling into a surface material used on playgrounds 
and athletic fields; blankets and towels are given to a 
local animal shelter.
In addition to a monthly newsletter, the team has an 
internal website and a network of “champions” in nearly every building who monitor recycling containers and 
serve as employee contacts. But good communications 
is only one part of the picture, said Alyssa Duarte-Reinagel, a systems manager who helped launch the site’s broader recycling efforts in 2003.
“You need to come with ideas, suggestions and 
solutions for what needs to be done; you can’t just complain about something,” Duarte-Reinagel said.
She and other team members say BEEP is an 
example of how one employee, with persistence and 
commitment, can make a difference.
“When I hear people say, ‘We can’t change things,’” 
Duarte-Reinagel said, “I point to the blue recycling containers all around the site and say, ‘Actually, you 
can.’”
Material handling specialists Ricky Rhine (left) and 
Clayton Maxwell collect a portion of the 4,000 pounds of 
bubble wrap recycled each month at Boeing St. Louis. Recycling has helped the site reduce by two-thirds the amount of waste it sends to landfills annually. (Boeing photo)Green Team harnesses the power of oneBoeing employees also take seriously their stewardship 
role in the community, to make the places where we live and work cleaner and better for all. In 2013, more than 
20,000 Boeing employees took part in Earth Day events 
at 65 Boeing sites in 14 countries.
Tapping into employee know-how and enthusiasm 
for environmental improvement is a critical means 
of achieving our 2017 environmental commitments, 
and Boeing aims to continue increasing employee engagement to make those improvements.2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  34In 2013 Boeing supported almost 100 projects around 
the world focused on environmental education, energy efficiency and conservation efforts. Working with 
community and business partners in Italy, Boeing 
supports the nationwide educational program “Svitati per l’ambiente” (“Let’s talk about sustainability”), which fosters young people’s interest in sustainable 
development and raises their awareness of the 
importance of environmental protection. In Indonesia, Boeing has partnered with The Nature Conservancy in support of the Berau Forest Carbon Program, which aims to bring almost 2 million acres (800,000 hectares) 
of forest land on the island of Borneo under effective 
management, lowering Indonesia’s carbon emissions, while also protecting biodiversity and improving the livelihoods of local communities.Inspiring Global 
Collaboration:Building Better Communities
As a committed, responsible 
environmental leader focused 
on healthy global growth, 
we collaborate with research 
institutions, customers, universities and governments 
to solve problems and partner 
with local communities about the importance of 
environmental protection and 
preservation.
Boeing awards grants to Engineers Without Borders-USA profressional and student chapters to enable projects 
such as this Georgia Tech project to build sustainable water supply systems in Oloo, Uganda (Photo: Engineers 
Without Borders Georgia Tech)
Watch the video about how Boeing is building  
better communities worldwide. (Boeing image)Click here to learn more.2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  35In the United States, Boeing supported more than 
40 university student chapter projects through the nonprofit Engineers Without Borders-USA (EWB-
USA), which helps to inspire the next generation of 
engineers to solve critical community problems by implementing deep-rooted engineering solutions that improve environmental and community performance. 
Through another collaboration with the Roundtable on 
Sustainable Biofuels (RSB), Boeing is helping Southeast Asian farmers grow plants that can be used to make sustainable aviation biofuel, which not only helps to reduce carbon emissions, but also improves the 
livelihoods of rural communities.
To read other stories of how Boeing is building better 
communities worldwide, read our Global Corporate Citizenship report.2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  36Operational footprint goals Boeing continues 
to accelerate improvements in the environmental performance of the company’s operations. From 2007 
to 2012, during a time of significant business growth, 
Boeing surpassed its first set of absolute-reduction targets.
Building on the demonstrated performance of the first 
set of five-year targets, and as business continues to 
grow, Boeing is committed that, by the end of 2017, our greenhouse gas emissions, water intake and solid waste to landfills will remain the same, as they were at the end of 2012. Additionally, we are committed to limiting our 
hazardous waste generation to no more than the rate at 
which our business is growing.
About this section The graphs and charts in this 
section are labeled with information rounded to the 
nearest decimal place and reflect the environmental 
performance of the majority of Boeing facilities, calculated from a baseline of 2012 values. However, some slight variation in the display of the data may occur in the visual appearance of some graphs for the purpose 
of creating visual presentations.
Additionally, each chart is represented by its own data 
set that is described in the accompanying footnotes.Performance:
Operational Footprint GoalsSummary of Environmental and Business Performance 2013
Revenues 6%
Deliverie s 9%
Employees -3.5%Business Performance
Change 201 2-201 312 13 14 15 16 17-10%-7.5%-5%-2.5%0%2.5%5%7.5%10%
Hazardous Waste 1.4%*
GHG Emissions 0%
Solid Wa ste -0.2%
Water Inta ke -5.3%
Environmental Target: 
0 absolute growth for water,
greenho use gas and solid wa ste;
0 revenue-adjusted growth
for hazardous waste by 201 7
*Revenue-adjustedEnvironmental Performance to Target12 13 14 15 16 17
While our business continues to 
grow, we are committed to zero 
growth for our environmental 
targets.See Appendix for Performance summary footnote2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  37Boeing recognizes that climate change requires serious 
action. We have conducted an assessment of the environmental footprint across our value chain, including 
our greenhouse gas emissions profile. The greatest 
sources of greenhouse gas emissions for our industry are our products in use, followed by the supply chain and our company operations. Boeing is addressing 
the product-in-use emissions through a strategic 
three-tiered focus on airframe efficiency innovations, technology improvements to modernize the air traffic management system, and expanding the supply of sustainable aviation biofuel for the industry. We also are 
a leader in driving collaboration to make improvements 
for aerospace industry and partner with the communities where we live and work.
Within our own operations, we are taking action to 
reduce the company’s greenhouse gas emissions. From 
2007 to 2012, Boeing’s carbon dioxide (CO
2) emissions 
decreased by 9 percent on an absolute basis.
Boeing received the Excellence in Greenhouse Gas 
Management Award for Goal Achievement from the EPA, 
in recognition of successfully managing and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. 
Greenhouse Gas Operation Footprint Goal As our 
environmental programs have grown and matured, we 
are now expanding our greenhouse gas target beyond CO
2 to the internationally recognized CO2-e (carbon 
dioxide equivalence) standard, by including methane and nitrogen dioxide. Boeing’s goal is to maintain our 
greenhouse gas emissions at or below 2012 levels, 
on an absolute basis, by 2017, thereby growing our business and limiting growth in our greenhouse gas emissions.
In 2013, Boeing’s greenhouse gas emissions were 1.30 
million metric tons (1.43 million tons).
To continue to meet our commitment, we are investing 
in energy efficiency projects, expanding our use of renewable energy and implementing ideas generated by 
our employees.Performance:
Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions
Hazardous Waste 1.4%*
GHG Emissions 0%
Solid Wa ste -0.2%
Water Inta ke-5.3%
Environmental Target: 
0 absolute growth for water,
greenho use gas and solid wa ste;
0 revenue-adjusted gr owth
for hazardous waste by 201 7
*Revenue-adjustedEnvironmental Performance to Target12 13 14 15 16 17Environmental Performance to Target
See Appendix for Greenhouse Gas Operational Footprint  
Goal footnote2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  38Greenhouse Gas Corporate Inventory Our corporate 
greenhouse gas emissions fall into three categories: Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3, and go beyond our 
operational targets. Scope 2 emissions comprise the 
largest segment of our greenhouse gas emissions, followed by the direct emissions of our facilities and then our business travel.
Scope 1 emissions were 672,409 tons (610,000 metric 
tons) and cover our consumption of electricity, natural gas, fuel oil and the jet fuel used in our flight-test programs. Scope 2 emissions were 1,130,971 tons (1,026,000 metric tons) and focus on the sources of 
emissions related to our business such as transportation 
of parts and our purchased electricity. For Scope 3 emissions, we track the emissions associated with our business travel, which were 326,284 tons (296,000 
metric tons).
In 2013, Boeing employees reduced commuting trips to 
and from work by more than 325 million miles, roughly equivalent to more than 679 round trips to the moon. In the average month, approximately 25 percent of Boeing 
employees use an alternative method to driving alone, 
such as carpooling, vanpooling, bus service or biking, to commute to work.
In 2013, Boeing was recognized by the CDP (Carbon 
Disclosure Project), for its leadership in Climate 
Disclosure on CDP’s Standard & Poor’s 500 Climate Disclosure Leadership Index.Greenhouse Gas Corporate Inventory
Greenhouse Gas Scope 1 Emission Sources32%
53%15%
Scope 1 Emissions
Scope 2 Emissions
Scope 3 Emissions
55%
25%15%
Natural Gas
Jet Fuel
Fugitive Emission
#2 Dies el
Othe r Fossil Fuels2%3%See Appendix for Greenhouse Gas Corporate Inventory footnote
See Appendix for Greenhouse Gas Corporate Inventory site 
listing footnote2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  39Improving energy efficiency across Boeing continues 
to be a key focus for the company. In 2013, Boeing’s energy use was 13.81 million MMBtus, a 0.8 percent 
increase from 2012.
About half our energy is derived from electricity, the other 
from natural gas. View our 2007–2012 energy reduction performance in the 2013 Environment Report.
Boeing also sponsors an annual internal Conservation 
Awards program to recognize and encourage replication of best practices across the company. Now in its 11th year, more than 500 completed projects have applied for the award, which is given to a select few teams every 
year for driving environmental performance. Through 
the program, projects such as the LED lighting project in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada, have resulted in annual energy consumption reductions of over 2.4 million 
MMBtus.Performance:
Energy 
ConservationEnergy: Electricity vs. Natural Gas
45%
55%
Natural Gas
Electricit y2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  40Boeing uses carbon-free hydroelectric and renewable 
energy sources for nearly half our total electricity consumption. Hydropower provides more than 
80 percent of electricity to our facilities in Everett, 
Washington, and the Seattle area, and is also used to generate electricity at our facility in Winnipeg, Manitoba. Boeing uses the EPA definition of renewable energy, 
which includes resources that rely on fuel sources that 
restore themselves over short periods of time and do not diminish. Such fuel sources include the sun, wind, moving water, organic plant and waste material (eligible biomass), and the Earth’s heat (geothermal).
The 10-acre solar system at the Boeing North 
Charleston, South Carolina, facilities continues to be one of the largest thin-film solar installations in the United States. The installation produces about 2.6 megawatts 
at peak production or enough electricity to power 
approximately 250 residential homes.
We are also helping our customers and communities 
around the world, such as in Guam and Canada, expand their use of renewable energy, and are leading 
the industry in developing sustainable fuel sources for 
aviation.Performance:
Alternative and Renewable EnergyElectricity Sources
12%
13%
13%
23%39%
Natural Gas 
Biomass, Wind, So lar
Nuclear
Coal 
Hydro 2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  41We continue to make progress with water-reduction 
efforts through alternative production methods, treatment technologies, water recycling solutions and 
employee awareness training on water management. 
In 2013, we cut our water use by 5 percent from the previous year, saving enough water to fill more than 140 Olympic-size swimming pools.
Reverse Osmosis As a part of its recent tank line 
system update, the Boeing Portland facility included a water reuse component. The new system uses reverse osmosis as a high-pressure filtration system to take the existing wastewater (see Appendix for Wastewater 
footnote) and then filter it to make it reusable. The 
recycled water is returned to the tank line, along with city water, and then is used again in most of the tank line’s processes. Previously, the water was disposed of 
down the sanitary sewer. Now, as much as 80 percent is 
reclaimed and, after more than a year in operation, more than a million gallons of water are recycled each month.Performance:
Water
Site landscaping changes at the facility in South Carolina helped conserve water and earn Boeing a 2013 conser -
vation award. (Boeing photo)
Hazardous Waste 1.4%*
GHG Emissions 0%
Solid Wa ste -0.2%
Water Inta ke-5.3%
Environmental Target: 
0 absolute growth for water,
greenho use gas and solid wa ste;
0 revenue-adjusted gr owth
for hazardous waste by 201 7
*Revenue-adjustedEnvironmental Performance to Target12 13 14 15 16 17Environmental Performance to Target
See Appendix for Water Performance to Target chart footnote2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  42Solid Waste Boeing measures nonhazardous solid 
waste (see Appendix for Solid Waste text footnote) generated by our operations. In 2013, Boeing sent 45.5 
million pounds (20.6 million kilograms) of solid waste to 
landfills, a 0.2 percent improvement from the baseline set in 2012. Waste is diverted from landfills through a combination of reducing, reusing, recycling, composting 
and energy recovery programs.
Currently, Boeing has six zero-waste-to-landfill sites: El 
Segundo, California; Long Beach, California; Charleston, South Carolina; Huntsville, Alabama; Philadelphia; and Salt Lake City. Boeing defines “zero waste to landfill” 
to include, at a minimum, all solid waste generated by 
operations. It does not include hazardous waste, which is handled in accordance with applicable regulations.
Thousands of pounds of packaging shed as team 
innovates for future With the first KC-46A Tanker 
entering production and the first 767 Freighter for FedEx delivered, the 767 team is busy innovating for the future. Working with suppliers, the 767 team was able to remove 10,000 pounds (4,500 kilograms) of waste from 
every 767 produced by creating new reusable containers 
to store and ship parts – known as “supplier kits.”
The new kits eliminate the need for the plastic wrap, 
cardboard and wood previously used, removing the 
cost and time associated with unwrapping and sorting 
each part. In addition to the amount of waste reduced, the new process is improving productivity by saving approximately 30 hours per airplane. 
Hazardous Waste From 2007 to 2012, Boeing reduced 
the amount of hazardous waste it generated by 33 percent on a revenue-adjusted basis. Building on this demonstrated performance, we are committed that our 
hazardous waste generation will not grow a rate more 
than the rate at which our business is expanding, by the end of 2017. In 2013, we saw an increase of 1.4 percent from our 2012 baseline.Performance:
Waste
Hazardous Waste 1.4%*
GHG Emissions 0%
Solid Wa ste -0.2%
Water Inta ke-5.3%
Environmental Target: 
0 absolute growth for water,
greenho use gas and solid wa ste;
0 revenue-adjusted gr owth
for hazardous waste by 201 7
*Revenue-adjustedEnvironmental Performance to Target12 13 14 15 16 17Environmental Performance to Target
A Boeing 767 industrial engineer examines the new sup -
plier kitting carts for the first time in Everett, Washington. 
(Boeing photo)See Appendix for Solid Waste Performance to Target  
chart footnote2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  43To meet our commitment of zero revenue-adjusted 
growth by the end of 2017, we are implementing numerous projects throughout the company to reduce 
the amount of hazardous waste that we generate.
For example, at Boeing’s Philadelphia facility, painters 
use a new virtual reality, 3-D environment to practice their technique before painting an aircraft. This 3-D 
trainer, a product called SimSpray, simulates the painting 
experience, and can measure paint coverage for a variety of coating systems, replicate common defects such as drips, determine quantities of wasted paint and provide immediate coaching on painting techniques. 
This all translates to more efficient painters, who use 
less paint for each aircraft and generate less hazardous waste. It is currently used for the classroom training of newly hired painters in the H-47 Chinook and V-22 
Osprey programs. Applications for the Puget Sound 
region are also being explored.
In 2013, our South Carolina facility implemented a 
process to reduce its hazardous waste generation by replacing the conventional paint cleanup solvent 
methyl ethyl ketone (MEK) with a reusable and more 
environmentally sensitive alternative. The new material, EP-921
® by Inland Technology, Inc., is nonhazardous, 
does not contain hazardous air pollutants, is low in volatile organic compounds, and met the site’s 
Solving for solvents: A Boeing employee pours paint sol -
vent into a reclamation unit which, after filtration, allows 
it to be reused multiple times. (Boeing photo)
The SimSpray virtual reality paint trainer provides 
real-time video feeds so instructors can watch painters’ progress. (Boeing photo) Click here to learn more.Hazardous Waste 1.4%*
GHG Emissions 0%
Solid Wa ste -0.2%
Water Inta ke-5.3%
Environmental Target: 
0 absolute growth for water,
greenho use gas and solid wa ste;
0 revenue-adjusted gr owth
for hazardous waste by 201 7
*Revenue-adjustedEnvironmental Performance to Target12 13 14 15 16 17Environmental Performance to Target production needs. The new material can be reused 
multiple times thanks to the automated gun cleaning and reclamation units that were installed. Those units 
employ a two-stage filtration process to remove paint 
contaminants from the material. Liquid hazardous waste generation from the paint operations has been reduced by more than 50 percent, approximately 48,000 pounds 
(21,770 kilograms) annually at current production rates.
See Appendix for Hazardous Waste Performance to target 
chart footnote2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  44With corporate offices in Chicago, Boeing employs more 
than 168,000 people across the United States and in more than 65 countries. This represents one of the most 
diverse, talented and innovative workforces anywhere. 
Each year we submit our environmental data to various reporting agencies according to regulatory requirements. Additionally, we report to both the U.S. Toxic Release 
Inventory as well as Canada’s National Pollutant Release 
Inventory. A summary of our previous disclosures can be found in the 2013 Environment Report.
Australia Boeing Australia represents the company’s 
largest operational footprint outside the United 
States. In 2013, Boeing Australia filed its fifth National 
Greenhouse and Energy Report, detailing its greenhouse gas emissions, energy consumption and energy production data. Boeing Australia’s CO
2-e emissions 
were calculated at 67,024 tons (60,804 metric tons)* and energy use at 111,865 kilowatt-hours (402,717 
gigajoules). Overall, Boeing Australia has continually 
reduced its CO
2-e emissions since the first reporting 
period in 2008–2009, while simultaneously increasing production rates of high-end aerostructure components.
United Kingdom Boeing participates in the Carbon 
Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme (CRC Scheme), under the U.K. Department of Energy and Climate Change, a mandatory emissions trading 
scheme aimed at reducing CO
2 emissions in the United 
Kingdom. For the reporting period April 1, 2012, through 
March 31, 2013, CRC-regulated emissions were 4,918 
metric tons* (5,421 tons) of CO2. This is an 8 percent 
increase from the previous year.
United States and Canada Boeing reports* to both 
the U.S. Toxic Release Inventory as well as Canada’s 
National Pollutant Release Inventory, an inventory of pollutant releases, off-site disposal and treatment, on an annual basis. In 2012, Boeing had a total release of 
360,000 pounds (163,293 kilograms) and total transfers 
of 3.39 million pounds (1.53 million kilograms). Total release and transfers for 2012 equaled 3.75 million pounds (1.70 million kilograms). Data for 2013 will be submitted to the U.S. and Canadian governments after 
the publication of this report, and will be included in next 
year’s report. Data for 2007 through 2011 are available in the 2013 Environment Report.Performance:
Global ReportingBoeing is a responsible partner, 
neighbor and citizen to the 
diverse communities and 
customers we serve.2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  45Page 36 
Footnote for Performance Summary Chart and Graph
•  Data r eported in this chart for the greenhouse gas emissions, 
hazardous waste, water intake and solid waste to landfill reflect environmental performance at the following sites from a baseline set on 2012 values. These sites (known as Core Sites) represent the vast majority of Boeing’s operations and are identified by the city in which the Boeing operation resides. For each metric, additional facilities and office build-ings have also been included where information is available.
  •  Alabama: Huntsville
  •  Arizona: Mesa
  •   Califor nia: El Segundo, Torrance, Huntington Beach, 
Long Beach, Seal Beach, Palmdale
  •  Illinois: Chicago
  •  Indiana: Gary
  •  Kansas: W ichita
  •  Missouri: St. Charles, St. Louis
  •  Ohio: Heath
  •  Or egon: Gresham
  •  Pennsylvania: Ridley Park
  •  South Car olina: Charleston, Ladson
  •  T exas: Houston, San Antonio
  •  Utah: Salt Lake City
  •   W ashington: Auburn, Tukwila (Developmental Center, 
Duwamish Towers), Everett, Frederickson, Kent, Seattle (North Boeing Field, Plant 2, Thompson, South Park), Renton (737 Assembly, Longacres), SeaTac, Bellevue
  •  Canada: W innipeg
  •  Australia: Fishermans Bend
  •   Site changes:  
Anaheim, California (Closed in 2012): 2012 partial year 
data only Bankstown, Australia (Closed in 2013): 2012 and 2013 partial year data only .
•  Deliveries include commer cial airplanes as well as defense 
new-build production aircraft as reported in the Boeing Annu-al Report for the corresponding calendar year.
•  Revenue numbers r eflect the amounts reported in the Boeing 
Annual Report for the corresponding year.
•  Employment numbers include all subsidiaries, leaves of 
absence less than 90 days, and full-time and part-time contingent labor, and are net of additions and reductions. They reflect the numbers as published on our Employment webpage.
•  Gr eenhouse gas: Total greenhouse gas emissions reflect 
data from the Core Sites as well as the data from Portland, Oregon (PDX Paint Hangars), and the Phoenix, Arizona. One metric ton equals approximately 2,204.62 pounds. See foot-note in Greenhouse Gas Emissions section for more detail.
•  W ater: Total water intake reflects data from the Core Sites as 
well as the data from Portland, Oregon (PDX Paint Hangars). One U.S. gallon equals approximately 3.79 liters.
•  Solid waste: T otal solid waste represents values determined 
from scale-weighed containers as well as calculated weights.•  Hazar dous waste: Total hazardous waste generation reflects 
data from the Core Sites as well as data from Portland, Oregon (PDX Paint Hangars); Jacksonville, Florida ; El Paso, Texas; Macon, Georgia; and Sylmar, California.
•  Envir onmental fines represent total environmental fines paid 
in the corresponding calendar year.
Return to Performance: Operational Footprint Goals
Page 37 
Greenhouse gas operational footprint goal footnote
•  Greenhouse gas emissions: Data reflect the 39 Core Sites as well as data from Portland, Oregon (PDX Paint Hangars), and Phoenix, Arizona. One metric ton = approximately 2,204.62 pounds. Carbon dioxide equivalent (CO
2-e) reflects the 
number of metric tons of CO2 emissions with the same global 
warming potential as one metric ton of another greenhouse gas (according to EPA 40 CFR 98, Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting).
•  Greenhouse gas emissions are calculated based on con-sumption of electricity, natural gas and #6 fuel oil. Our facility in Philadelphia is the only major U.S. site that uses fuel oil for heating. Consumption of other fuels is not represented. For U.S. sites, Scope 1 emissions from natural gas, fuel oil and on-site-generated electricity are calculated using the emission factors provided in the U.S. EPA’s Greenhouse Gas Mandatory Reporting Rule. Scope 2 emissions from purchased electricity are calculated using year 2010 eGRID factors (Representing 2010 energy Profile). For the Canada site, Scope 1 emissions are calculated using the emission factors provided in the U.S. EPA’s Greenhouse Gas Manda-tory Reporting Rule; Scope 2 emissions are calculated from the supplier data. For the Australia sites, Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions are calculated using the emission factors provid-ed in the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (NGER) Scheme.
•  In 2012, Boeing South Carolina purchased Renewable Energy Credits (REC) and offset approximately 51,808 tons (approximately 47,000 metric tons) of greenhouse gas emis-sions. In 2013, Boeing South Carolina continued to purchase RECs and offset approximately 57,320 tons (approximately 52,000 metric tons) of greenhouse gas emissions.
Return to Greenhouse Gas Operational Footprint GoalAppendix:
Footnotes2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  46Page 38 
Greenhouse gas corporate inventory footnote:
The greenhouse gas emissions reported in this section repre-
sent 108 facilities and operational groups. These are located primarily in the United States and include two subsidiary companies in North America, the operations of Boeing Australia Holding Ltd. and its subsidiaries, and specific subsidiary facil-ities in the United Kingdom. Refer to the Site Listings footnote for a complete list.
Our greenhouse gas inventory process adheres to the 
guidelines published by the World Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business Council for Sustainable Development’s (WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting Standard (the Greenhouse Gas Protocol), Revised Edition, and its associated calculation tools that are relevant to our opera-tions, as well as the Australian National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act and the United Kingdom’s Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme (CRC Scheme).
The absolute value (reported in metric tons CO
2-e) of our entire 
greenhouse gas emission inventory can change as a result of 
these adjustments made in accordance with the GHG Protocol. Emissions from divested facilities are removed from the base year and subsequent years as proscribed in the GHG Protocol base year management methods. Calculation factors: Data source of global warming potentials is U.S. 40 CFR 98, subpart A. table A-1. For greenhouse gas inventory in North America, emission factors for combustion sources come from U.S. 40 CFR 98, subpart C, table c-1. U.S. Scope 2 emissions are calculated using year 2010 eGRID factors (representing 2010 energy profile). Canada Scope 2 emissions are calculated from the supplier data. When energy data is not available, 2003 Commercial Buildings Energy Consumption Survey (CBECS) factors are used to estimate. For greenhouse gas inventory in the United Kingdom, emission factors from the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme are used. For greenhouse gas inventory in Australia, emission factors from the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act are used.
Greenhouse gas emissions are calculated based on consump-
tion of electricity, natural gas and fuel oil from Jan. 1, 2013, to Dec. 31, 2013. These greenhouse gas emissions reported represent 108 facilities and operational groups. These are located primarily in the United States and include two subsidiary companies in North America, the operations of Boeing Australia Holding Ltd. and its subsidiaries, and Boeing and specific subsidiary facilities in the United Kingdom. These numbers do not include emissions generated at facilities that are not owned or controlled by The Boeing Company.
RECs were also applied to greenhouse gas calculation. In 
2012, Boeing South Carolina purchased RECs and offset approximately 51,808 tons (approximately 47,000 metric tons) of greenhouse gas emissions. In 2013, Boeing South Caro-lina again purchased RECs and offset approximately 57,320 tons (approximately 52,000 metric tons) of greenhouse gas emissions.
Return to Greenhouse Gas Corporate Inventory2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  47Page 38 
Site listing footnote for Corporate GHG Inventory chart:
Our greenhouse gas inventory reflects data gathered at the 
Boeing facilities in the following cities:
Country  State  City (site)  
United States  Alabama  Huntsville  
    Arizona  Phoenix  
     Mesa  
    Califor nia  Long Beach  
     Palmdale  
     El Segundo  
     Huntington Beach  
     Pleasanton  
     Seal Beach  
     Santa Susana  
     Sylmar  
     T orrance  
    Colorado  Colorado Springs  
    Florida  Jacksonville  
     Fort W alton Beach  
     T itusville   
    Georgia  Macon  
    Illinois  Chicago  
    Indiana  Gary 
    Kansas  W ichita  
    Maryland  Annapolis Junction  
    Missouri  Florissant  
     St. Louis  
     St. Charles  
    Montana  Helena  
    New Jersey  Millville  
    New Mexico  Albuquer que 
    Ohio  Heath  
    Oklahoma  Oklahoma City 
    Or egon  Portland (PDX Paint  
     Hangars)  
     Gr esham  
     (Portland Fabrication)  
    Pennsylvania  Ridley Park 
    South Carolina  Charleston  
     Ladson  
    T exas  El Paso  
     Houston  
     San Antonio  
     Richar dson  
    Utah  Salt Lake City  
     Ogden  
    V irginia  Arlington  
     Chantilly  
     Her ndon  
     Springfield  
    W ashington  Aubur n 
     Anacortes  
     Bellevue  
     Ever ett 
     Fr ederickson  
     Kent 
     Renton (737 Assembly  
     Renton (Longacres)  
     SeaT ac 
     T ukwila (Development  
     Center)  Country  State  City (site)    
     Seattle (North Boeing Field)  
     Seattle (Plant 2)  
     Seattle (South Park)  
     Seattle (Thompson)  
     T ukwila (Duwamish Towers)  
    Wyoming  Cheyenne  
Canada   Manitoba  W innipeg  
Australia  Queensland  Amberley  
     Banyo  
     Brisbane (Adelaide St)  
     Brisbane (Archerfield)  
     Brisbane (BT&FS)  
     Brisbane (Insitu Pac)  
     Brisbane (Level 6 Boeing  
     House)  
     Brisbane (Toowong)  
     Cair ns 
     Eagle Farm  
     Oakey  
     T ownsville (Bohle River Tx)  
     T ownsville (Speed Creek Rx)  
    W estern  Armadle  
    Australia  Exmouth  
     Geraldton  
     Jandakot  
     North W est Cape (HFMOD  
     Exmouth Tx) 
     North W est Cape (HFMOD  
     Rough Range Rx)  
    V ictoria  Fishermans Bend  
     Melbour ne 
     Moorabbin  
     T ullamarine (BACR)  
     T ullamarine (Lindaway  
     Place Aviall)  
    New South  Holsworthy  
    W ales  Mayfield  
     Shoal Bay 
     Sydney (BAH Bridge St)  
     Sydney (A viall Bankstown)  
     Sydney (BAA Bankstown)  
     Sydney  
     (JeppensGladesville)  
     W agga Wagga  
     W illiamtown  
    Australian  Canberra (55 Blackall St  
    Capital Territory  Barton)  
     Canberra (Russel of fices)  
     Canberra (Jeppesen)  
     Fyshwick (65 T ennant St)  
    Norther n Territory  Humpty Doo (Darwin Naval  
     Comms Station)  
    South Australia  L yndoch (Riverina)  
United Kingdom  England  Bristol (Dakota House)  
     Bristol (Building 630)  
     Bristol (Integration House)  
     Colnbr ook 
     London (Gatwick airport)  
     London (Charlton House)  
     Manchester  
     Newbury
Return to Greenhouse Gas Corporate Inventory2014 Environment Report: Build a Better Planet | To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment  48Page 41 
Water Performance to target chart footnote:
•  In addition to data fr om Boeing’s 39 Core Sites, water perfor -
mance also includes data from Portland, Oregon (PDX Paint Hangars).
• 1 U.S. gallon = appr oximately 3.79 liters.
Return to Water Performance to Target
Page 41 
Wastewater footnote:
Wastewater is the amount of water sent for treatment before 
discharge. Wastewater intensity is the ratio of pounds of waste-water per pound of production. Although wastewater intensity is not compiled for the total company, Boeing is dedicated to water conservation and reducing its overall water use.
Return to Reverse Osmosis
Page 42 
Solid Waste Performance to target chart footnote:
• Data r eflects performance at Boeing’s 39 Core Sites.
•  T otal solid waste represents values determined from scale-
weighed containers as well as calculated weights
Return to Solid Waste Performance to Target 
Page 42 
Solid Waste footnote:
Nonhazardous solid waste includes waste streams such as 
metals, wood, paper, cardboard, plastics and organic materials. It does not include hazardous waste, construction waste, reme-diation waste or waste from asbestos abatement activities.
Return to Solid Waste
Page 43 
Hazardous Waste Performance to target chart footnote:
•  Envir onmental target: Zero revenue-adjusted growth for 
hazardous waste generation by 2017.
•  In addition to data fr om Boeing’s 39 Core Sites, hazardous 
waste generation performance also includes data from Boeing’s operations in Jacksonville, Florida; El Paso, Texas; Macon, Georgia; Sylmar, California; and Portland, Oregon.
Return to Hazardous Waste Performance to TargetSelected Programs, Products and Services
Copyright © 2014 Boeing. All rights reserved. 
Visit us at boeing.com 
to learn more about 
Boeing and how ex -
traordinary innovations in our products and services are helping  solve the world’s toughest problems.Visit us at boeing.com/investorrelations to view our annual reports and to find additional information about our financial performance and Boeing business practices. 
Visit us at boeing.com/environment to view  the complete 2014  Environment Report and information on how the people of Boeing are developing ways to build a better planet and create a better tomorrow.Visit us at boeing.com/community to view our Corporate Citizenship Report and other information about how Boeing is working to improve communities worldwide.Photo above:   
With all-new engines and composite wings, the 777X will be the largest, most efficient twin-engine jet in the world.Boeing is a responsible partner, neighbor and citizen  to the diverse 
communities and customers we serve. We are building a better future with 
innovative products that are cleaner, more efficient and set a new standard for 
performance. Boeing follows responsible business practices and promotes positive changes in the lives of people around the world while growing share -
holder and customer value in a competitive global marketplace.Selected Programs, Products and ServicesThe Boeing Company
100 North RiversideChicago, Illinois 60606www.boeing.com/environment