SUSTAIN A B L E 
A
E
R
O
S
P
A
C
E
T
O
G
E
T
H
E
R
THE BO E I N G  C O M P A N Y 
2
0
2
1
 
S
U
S
T
A
I
N
A
B
I
L
I
T
Y
 
R
E
P
O
R
T
Introduction  
3 Message from Dave Calhoun
5  Boeing Responds to COVID-19
7 Partnering for Sustainable Aerospace
11 Sustainable Aerospace Firsts  
Approach & Governance
13 Company Profile
14 Sustainability Approach
15 Sustainability Priorities
17 Sustainability Goals
18 Ethical and Compliant Business
21 Governance and Risk Management
People
24 Safety-First Culture
27 Global Equity, Diversity and Inclusion
30  Professional Development,  
Education and Learning
Products & Services
34 Aerospace Safety and Quality
35 Sustainable Product Life Cycle
37 Innovation and Clean Technology
Communities
51 Community Engagement by the Numbers
52 Purposeful Partnerships
54 Engaging Around the Globe
Operations
41 Addressing Climate Change
42 Conserving Resources
46  Environmental Compliance  
and Biodiversity
47 Responsible Supply Chain
49 Data Privacy and Information Security
Appendix
57 GRI Index
65 SASB Index
68 TCFD Index
69 U.N. Sustainable Development Goals
71 Awards and Recognition
71 Memberships and Partnerships
72 Key ESG Data
76 Forward-Looking Statements
Cover Photo: Yakira and Yeshaya, children of Boeing Global Engagement Manager Tamika Lang, help out at a volunteer 
event at a community garden in Long Beach, California.
Some photos in this report were taken before the COVID-19 pandemic.Contents
CONTENTS  2
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsThe essence of sustainability is about meeting 
the needs of the present without compromising 
the ability of future generations to meet  
their own. Throughout our long history of 
innovation, Boeing has looked for ways to 
improve sustainability. Today, the scope of 
sustainability requires broader consideration 
across the environmental, social and economic 
landscape and identifying ways to further 
enable efficiency, innovation and human 
connection. Simply, it’s about doing what’s 
right for our customers, our people and our 
planet while continuing to chart a course  
that safeguards our environment, does not 
compromise quality of life, and ensures 
growth and prosperity for all stakeholders. 
At Boeing, everything we do ties back to  
our values and purpose, which is “to protect, 
connect and explore the world and beyond.” 
This starts with our commitment to protect. 
Why? Because it is imperative our employees, 
customers, the flying public and military 
service members understand that absolutely 
nothing is more important to us than doing 
everything possible to keep them safe and 
protect them from harm. We carry a big and 
important responsibility on our shoulders,  
and we never forget that for a moment. We 
must also hold ourselves accountable for  
how we are taking meaningful actions to  
help protect our world for future generations. 
This is the lens through which we view our 
Environmental, Social and Governance  
(ESG) efforts.While focusing on sustainability is valuable  
to every company, it is particularly vital to  
the global aerospace industry. Boeing’s 
inaugural Sustainability report shares our 
journey through stories and data that convey 
how well we are living up to this broader 
obligation, and uncovers where we can do 
better in the coming years. You’ll notice  
we’ve developed a few new goals on some  
of the most critical topics facing our company 
and our world. The report focuses on our 
people, products and services, operations 
and communities.  
People: As a leader in the aerospace industry, 
we have multiple responsibilities with respect 
to protecting people. First and foremost,  
our team is focused on protecting everyone 
who has any interaction with our products.  
In 2019 — a year before the pandemic —  
there were approximately 4.5 billion air travel 
occasions for passengers worldwide, and 
many of these were on a Boeing aircraft.  
In parallel, the U.S. military and our allied 
nations depend on Boeing products to let 
them safely complete their missions. Each 
and every flight that utilizes our aircraft 
represents a social responsibility of the 
highest order. 
We are equally passionate about protecting 
our 140,000 teammates, their families, and the 
communities where we operate or influence social interactions. In the last year we have put 
a bright spotlight on confronting racism and 
addressing racial equity and inclusion at 
Boeing. Our pledge to eradicating any racism 
and discrimination across our ecosystem is 
irrevocable. This leadership starts at the top, 
starting with multiple moves to create a more 
diverse senior executive team to shape our 
strategy, operations and culture. 
Products and Services:  For over a century, 
we have had the privilege to bring air travel to 
the world and help pioneer space exploration. 
Given the intrinsic nature of air and space 
travel, every product we build and service we 
provide inevitably affects Earth’s atmosphere. 
However, our 50,000 engineers are hard  
at work reinventing the future of aerospace  
to ensure that we significantly reduce our 
environmental impact during every stage  
of a product’s life cycle. 
One significant step in this direction is  
our commitment to making certain our 
commercial airplanes will be certified to  
safely fly on 100% sustainable aviation  
fuels by 2030. Equally impactful is helping  
our customers around the world find new 
ways to accelerate the replacement of  
older, less-fuel-efficient aircraft. 
 Message from Dave Calhoun
Dave Calhoun, President and CEO
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
INTRODUCTION  3
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services
 Communities OperationsOperations:  We announced last year that  
we achieved net-zero carbon emissions at  
our factories and worksites. We will always 
continue to seek more ways to make our 
work more energy efficient. Each day,  
we collaborate with a global network of 
approximately 12,000 suppliers to help 
design, build and service our products and 
apply a core set of principles throughout  
our supply chain. We pay careful attention  
to vetting, selecting and supporting our 
suppliers every step of the way and are 
equally committed to collaborating with 
suppliers who share our passion for creating  
a more sustainable environment. We look for 
every opportunity to help them uncover new 
ideas and approaches to lessen their own 
environmental footprint.
Communities:  Through our investment in 
education programs, veterans care, cultural 
organizations and support efforts, we are 
supporting the next generation of STEM 
leaders; contributing to local charities; and 
building partnerships that expand equity,  
such as our work with Allen University to 
establish the Boeing Institute on Civility.
At the beginning of the report, we dedicate  
a section to our approach and governance. 
Governance at Boeing starts with the  
composition of our Board of Directors, a group 
that brings a healthy diversity of expertise  
and lived experiences to every major decision 
facing our company. We have continued to 
evolve our board composition in recent years to include a greater diversity of perspectives  
in every consequential conversation. Our 
Board — in close coordination with our senior 
executive team — ensures that we hold 
ourselves to the highest standards in our work 
and business practices, ethical conduct and 
information protection. Included within this 
mandate are all the policies we develop and 
the training we provide to enable our teams to 
operate with utmost integrity. We will always 
have zero tolerance for bribery, corruption, 
illegal activities, or any other decision or action 
that violates our Code of Conduct. The Board 
actively oversees our corporate sustainability 
activities through the Governance & Public 
Policy Committee, working closely with 
leadership to ensure that we meet our 
commitments to our stakeholders. 
Our Sustainability report highlights our 
initiatives and investments to help protect, 
connect and explore our world and beyond. 
I’m incredibly proud of how our teams are 
constantly discovering new ways to build  
a better Boeing, all in service of building  
a better world. We look forward to the  
journey ahead and will work tirelessly with  
all of our stakeholders to create the future  
of sustainable aerospace together.
 
 
 
David L. Calhoun   
President and Chief Executive Officer
Our Values
HOW WE OPERATE:
Start with engineering excellence
Be accountable — from  
beginning to end
Apply Lean principles
Eliminate traveled work
Reward predictability and  
stability — everywhere in  
our businessHOW WE ACT:
Lead on safety, quality, integrity  
and sustainability
Foster a Just Culture grounded in  
humility, inclusion and transparency
Import best leadership practices
Earn stakeholder trust and preference
Respect one another and  
advance a global, diverse team
Innovate and operate to make the world better
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
INTRODUCTION  4
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services
 Communities OperationsBoeing pilots completed 11 airlift missions that safely 
delivered 4.5 million units of PPE aboard Dreamlifter cargo 
freighters to health care professionals. See other Boeing 
pandemic humanitarian airlift missions featured on Page 55 .
Boeing has taken proactive steps to protect our employees, aid our communities and support our customers through the COVID-19 pandemic. 
We will continue to adapt and evolve to address the impact of COVID-19. Boeing Responds to COVID-19
CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITIES
 –Assessed employee health and COVID-19 
impacts continuously and in consultation 
with health officials, temporarily suspending 
site operations as needed
 –Directed all employees who can effectively 
do their jobs from home to telecommute
 –Directed virtual meetings whenever 
possible and physical distancing and mask 
wearing when face-to-face meetings  
are essential
 –Increased cleaning of high-touch areas, 
deep cleaning of impacted sites and 
maintaining rigorous criteria for return  
to work –Coordinated 11 airlift transport missions  
of COVID-19 supplies
 –Delivered 4.5 million units of personal 
protective equipment (PPE) on Boeing 
airplanes, including the Dreamlifter, to 
front-line workers
 –Utilized 3D-printing capabilities to  
manufacture 40,000 face shields  
for front-line workers
 –Provided our facility space to help  
support local vaccine distribution at sites 
including Everett and Auburn, Washington,  
and North Charleston, South Carolina
 –Committed $10 million in emergency 
assistance to support India’s response  
to the surge in COVID-19 cases in 2021, 
funding organizations that provide relief, 
including medical supplies and emergency 
health care for communities and families 
battling COVID-19 –Launched the Confident Travel Initiative  
to provide airline passengers and crews a 
safe, healthy and efficient travel experience
 –Developed innovative technologies  
and methods for cabin cleanliness, 
including antimicrobial surface treatments, 
ultraviolet light and thermal disinfection
 –Delivered mission-ready products to our 
defense and space customers with an 
unwavering focus on safety, quality  
and integrity
 –Met the evolving services needs of 
commercial and government customers, 
including remote inspections and mainte -
nance, virtual training and digital solutions 
to increase operational efficiencyAdditive Manufacturing teams across the U.S. 3D-printed  
and assembled 40,000 face shields during the coronavirus 
pandemic. Pictured here in Mesa, Arizona, is Jared Tompkinson, 
who said, “Working on something so directly meaningful to 
society in general brings a unique kind of satisfaction.”
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
INTRODUCTION  5
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services
 Communities OperationsFrom left: Boeing engineers Kevin Callahan,  
Teresa King and Jamie Childress with the UV wand  
at Boeing’s Concept Center in Everett, Washington.  
They led a team that turned a concept into a device  
that could change the way airplanes are sanitized.
98.6
HOME
DATA-DRIVEN OPTIMIZATIONCHECK-IN
UV StudyENHANCED 
PROCEDURESCLEANED AND 
DISINFECTEDCLEAN AIR
HEPA
2-3 minutes Face maskCabin air/f_low ENHANCED
PROCEDURESDEPARTURE AIRPORT AIRPLANE ARRIVAL AIRPORTINFLIGHTA Multi-layered Approach to Protect the Air Travel Journey   –Approved new airplane cleaning and 
disinfection processes 
 –Developed a portable ultraviolet wand to 
sanitize airplane interiors 
 –Tested and validated thermal disinfection  
to kill viruses on hard-to-clean flight  
deck equipment
Boeing is now working with governments and industry associations to enhance, stabilize and 
standardize international travel requirements as air travel resumes and restrictions ease around 
the globe.  –Completed comprehensive airflow  
analysis confirming that cabin design  
and airflow systems minimize the spread  
of airborne particles
 –Conducted data-driven analysis simulations 
and modeling to further minimize virus 
transmission risks throughout the air  
travel journeyKEY ACHIEVEMENTSSPOTLIGHT: Confident Travel Initiative
Protecting the Health and Safety  
of Passengers and Crew
Boeing’s Confident Travel Initiative is leading 
the global effort to protect airplane passengers 
and crew during the COVID-19 pandemic.
The company is partnering with industry, 
applying best practices and mobilizing 
engineering resources to develop new 
technologies and solutions that minimize virus 
transmission in airports and on airplanes. 
This collaborative approach to strengthening 
safety supports the short- and long-term 
recovery of the aviation industry.  
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
INTRODUCTION  6
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services
 Communities OperationsBoeing has been exploring and developing concepts for 
advanced aircraft that can meet specific energy-efficiency, 
environmental and operational goals in 2030 and beyond.Chief Sustainability Officer Chris 
Raymond discusses Boeing’s  
commitment to partner across  
the industry to redefine sustainable 
aerospace by 2050. 
In September 2020 Boeing formed a  
Sustainability organization and named 
you as their Chief Sustainability Officer. 
Why was this the right time? 
For more than 100 years, Boeing has been 
committed to protecting, connecting and 
exploring our world and beyond, and we  
continue to do so today, safely and sustainably. 
However, in the midst of a pandemic, we 
wanted to be even more intentional about our 
stakeholder focused efforts and created a 
Global Enterprise Sustainability organization. 
Sustainability is rooted in our company values 
and encompasses our focus on environmental 
stewardship, social progress and inclusion, and 
values-based transparent governance. Within 
this report, we share our journey, our industry 
point of view and data around key stakeholder 
topics for our business. You’ll find the details of 
how we are actively advancing sustainability on 
all of our priorities through our people, products 
and services, operations and communities. Our industry and our company are facing into 
climate change driven risks, opportunities  
and the need to decarbonize aerospace  
for sustained long-term growth. Safe and 
sustainable aerospace is nonnegotiable  
to our commercial and defense customers, 
communities, and current and future  
employees. Our people around the globe  
and partnerships in our local communities  
are foundational to our success. 
How does Boeing plan to decarbonize 
aerospace for future generations?  
Our purpose is to protect, connect and 
explore our world and beyond safely and 
sustainably, so we’re partnering across  
the industry to reimagine and ultimately  
decarbonize aerospace in the second half  
of this century. By 2050, we see a world 
where air travel will safely carry 10 billion 
passengers a year; support 180 million jobs; 
support science, technology, engineering  and math education; and generate nearly  
$9 trillion in economic activity, all while  
minimizing the impact on our planet. 
At the same time, governments around the 
globe are committing to bold climate change 
ambitions and are looking to our industry 
to partner with them on a more sustainable 
aerospace future both in the commercial  
and defense sectors. This future requires  
a portfolio of solutions and partnerships  
that allows our industry sector to decarbonize 
while ensuring the human connectivity,  
societal and economic benefits that  
come from aerospace are available to  
people everywhere.
What is included in Boeing’s portfolio  
of solutions?  
Safe, sustainable aerospace requires  
different solutions tailored to the needs,  
capabilities and constraints of different 
regions and markets. We have made solid 
progress in areas where we see the biggest 
potential, including fleet renewal, network 
operational efficiencies, renewable energy 
transition, and advanced technology in power 
systems and platforms.
We recognize that elements of this transition 
will take time as well as further advances in 
technology and policy collaborations with 
governments around the world. We are  
excited about the potential for further  
cooperation across the industry value  
chain and new partnerships with global  
stakeholders so we can collectively deliver 
on our commitment to climate action and 
sustainable aerospace. Partnering for Sustainable Aerospace 
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
INTRODUCTION  7
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services
 Communities OperationsThe journey to net-zero will also require  
the use of verified and sustainable carbon 
offsets in the midterm as we collectively  
work to scale up sustainable aviation fuels 
(SAF) and deploy new technologies. The 
global, industry-aligned (IATA, ICAO) offsetting  
program, CORSIA, has been implemented  
as a bridge to complement the work we’re 
doing to decarbonize aviation.
Why is fleet renewal important?   
New airplanes provide significant efficiency 
gains, with each generation reducing fuel 
use and emissions 15% to 25%. Boeing has 
invested more than $60 billion over the last 
10 years in key strategic areas, including  
innovative technologies such as carbon  
composite materials, advanced high-bypass-  
ratio engine designs and other aerodynamic improvements such as natural laminar flow 
that reduces drag to improve environmental 
efficiency — integrated across the life cycle  
in a model-based engineering environment. 
But it’s bigger than a single company’s  
investment. Airlines have invested more than 
$1 trillion to purchase these new airplanes, 
in many cases to replace older, less-efficient 
models. Many airlines have accelerated retiring 
older airplanes during the pandemic, and we 
expect this trend will continue.
What is Boeing doing to advance  
operational efficiencies?
The aviation industry continues to collaborate 
on how to operate and fly more efficiently, 
which collectively can reduce emissions by 
approximately 10%. Boeing ensures our 
aircraft have the latest equipment to support advanced procedures, and we also work with 
airlines, government customers, air navigation 
service providers and airports to enable  
airspace efficiency improvements. A few  
examples include continuous descent  
approaches, navigation equipment upgrades, 
fuel optimization services, real-time data  
and decision support tools, and more  
direct routings. 
How will Boeing achieve its commitment 
to have all of its commercial airplanes 
100% capable and certified to fly on  
sustainable aviation fuels by 2030?   
It’s an ambitious target but one that is  
necessary to advance the long-term  
sustainability of commercial aviation. We’re 
committed to working with regulators, engine 
partners and other key stakeholders to ensure 
our airplanes and eventually our industry can 
fly entirely on sustainable jet fuels. 
Boeing has been a pioneer in making  
sustainable aviation fuels a reality. The  
company worked with airlines, engine  
manufacturers and others to conduct  
biofuel test flights in 2008 and gain approval 
for commercial use in 2011. In 2018, we  
carried out the world’s first commercial  airplane flight using 100% sustainable fuels  
as part of our ecoDemonstrator program.  
On the defense side, we’ve partnered with 
the U.S. Navy to conduct SAF flight tests  
on an F/A-18 Super Hornet. We also  
collaborated with the U.S. Air Force on an  
in-depth fuel study as part of their efforts to 
certify the C-17 to use SAF. Going forward, 
we aspire to partner and help solve the  
obstacles to scaling the SAF supply as well.
Why is Boeing focused on SAF instead  
of other alternative energy solutions?   
We are focused on and investing in both,  
but SAF is in regular use today and offers  
the most immediate and largest potential  
to reduce carbon emissions over the next 
20 to 30 years across all aviation segments. 
Battery-electric energy storage and green 
hydrogen have potential but will require  
new design studies, safe certification  
approaches, new technology developments, 
platform developments, and new systemwide 
ground and network infrastructure to scale. 
Also, the large majority of aviation sector 
emissions are associated with long-range  
aircraft and flights, which are at a physical 
scale that is not yet supported by these  
alternative energy approaches. For these  
reasons, we see them as longer-term  
solutions. Given the near-term need for  
emissions reduction and with the primary 
sources of aviation emissions stemming from 
longer-haul flights, our near-term emphasis  
is on SAF as the most direct way to make 
substantial reductions in net carbon  
emissions from aviation today. 
Electric propulsion enables small, zero-emissions aircraft 
that have the potential to bring sustainable flight closer  
to home in the future.
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
INTRODUCTION  8
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services
 Communities OperationsCarbon Fiber
Recycling
Solar-Powered
Paint FacilityEnergy Star
Award
100% Renewable
Energy FacilityHydrokinetic TurbinesAir Traffic
Management
Research
Aircraft Recycling
Sustainable Aviation
Fuels Supply
Chain Development
Sustainable Aviation
Fuels InitiativeSustainable Aviation
Fuels CollaborationSustainable Aviation 
Fuels Roadmap
Resin Infusion and 
Carbon Fiber RecyclingGuam Solar FacilitySustainable Aviation Fuels
Flight and Research
Sustainable
Aviation Fuels
Carbon Fiber Recycling
Sustainable Aviation
Fuels Roadmap
HEFA+ Fuel CommercializationSustainable Aviation
Fuels Research
Air Space
Capabilities
Small Farm
Sustainable Aviation
Fuels InitiativeAir Traffic
Management
Research 
People and Presence
Locations with Boeing teammates and 
key partners focused on advancing 
sustainable aerospace efforts.
– Abu Dhabi, UAE
– Amsterdam, Netherlands
– Beijing, China
– Brasilia, Brazil
– Brussels, Belgium
– Canberra, Australia
– London, U.K.
– Pulau Ujong, Singapore
– Washington D.C., U.S. Communities and Industry
– Aerospace Industries Association (AIA)
– Aerospace Defence, Security and Space
– Air Transport Action Group (ATAG)
   (Geneva, Switzerland)     
– Aircraft Fleet Recycling Association
   (AFRA)
– Airlines for America (A4A)
– Airlines for Europe– Boeing Aerospace Technology Institute 
   Accelerator project     
– Commercial Aviation Alternative Fuels
   Initiative (CAAFI)
– International Aerospace Environmental
   Group (IAEG)
– International Air Transport Association
   (IATA)– International Civil Aviation Organization
   (ICAO)   
– MIT Climate & Sustainability Consortium 
– Nordic Initiative for Sustainable Aviation
– Roundtable on Sustainable Biomaterials
   (Geneva, Switzerland)
– Sustainable Aviation Buyers Alliance
   (SABA), BC-SMART– Sustainable Aviation Fuel Alliance of
   Australia and New Zealand (SAFAANZ)
– Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group
   (SAFUG)
– U.K. Sustainable Aviation
– World Economic Forum Clean Skies  
   for Tomorrow Coalition (Cologny,
   Switzerland)Boeing Takes Action  
to Decarbonize Aerospace
Boeing remains committed to pioneering 
sustainable aerospace for current and future 
generations. This involves a long history of 
innovative solutions with our people and 
partnerships foundational to all we do. While 
the activities on the map are not exhaustive, 
they give an indication of the actions we’ve 
taken and the partnerships we’ve formed 
around the globe to decarbonize aerospace. 
Products and Services 
Efficient Operations 
Communities and Industry People and PresenceCarbon Fiber
Recycling
Solar-Powered
Paint FacilityEnergy Star
Award
100% Renewable
Energy FacilityHydrokinetic TurbinesAir Traffic
Management
Research
Aircraft Recycling
Sustainable Aviation
Fuels Supply
Chain Development
Sustainable Aviation
Fuels InitiativeSustainable Aviation
Fuels CollaborationSustainable Aviation 
Fuels Roadmap
Resin Infusion and 
Carbon Fiber RecyclingGuam Solar FacilitySustainable Aviation Fuels
Flight and Research
Sustainable
Aviation Fuels
Carbon Fiber Recycling
Sustainable Aviation
Fuels Roadmap
HEFA+ Fuel CommercializationSustainable Aviation
Fuels Research
Air Space
Capabilities
Small Farm
Sustainable Aviation
Fuels InitiativeAir Traffic
Management
Research 
People and Presence
Locations with Boeing teammates and 
key partners focused on advancing 
sustainable aerospace efforts.
– Abu Dhabi, UAE
– Amsterdam, Netherlands
– Beijing, China
– Brasilia, Brazil
– Brussels, Belgium
– Canberra, Australia
– London, U.K.
– Pulau Ujong, Singapore
– Washington D.C., U.S. Communities and Industry
– Aerospace Industries Association (AIA)
– Aerospace Defence, Security and Space
– Air Transport Action Group (ATAG)
   (Geneva, Switzerland)     
– Aircraft Fleet Recycling Association
   (AFRA)
– Airlines for America (A4A)
– Airlines for Europe– Boeing Aerospace Technology Institute 
   Accelerator project     
– Commercial Aviation Alternative Fuels
   Initiative (CAAFI)
– International Aerospace Environmental
   Group (IAEG)
– International Air Transport Association
   (IATA)– International Civil Aviation Organization
   (ICAO)   
– MIT Climate & Sustainability Consortium 
– Nordic Initiative for Sustainable Aviation
– Roundtable on Sustainable Biomaterials
   (Geneva, Switzerland)
– Sustainable Aviation Buyers Alliance
   (SABA), BC-SMART– Sustainable Aviation Fuel Alliance of
   Australia and New Zealand (SAFAANZ)
– Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group
   (SAFUG)
– U.K. Sustainable Aviation
– World Economic Forum Clean Skies  
   for Tomorrow Coalition (Cologny,
   Switzerland)
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
INTRODUCTION  9
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services
 Communities OperationsWhat future technologies is Boeing  
working on to make the industry  
more sustainable?   
We believe the next generation of aircraft will 
incorporate the latest airframe, propulsion  
and systems technology, as well as various 
power and energy solutions for different  
market segments and aircraft sizes.
Boeing has been partnering across the industry 
on concepts for advanced aircraft that can 
meet specific energy efficiency, environmental 
and operational goals in 2030 and beyond.  
For example, our Transonic Truss-Braced 
Wing (TTBW) concept, provides a 9% 
improvement in fuel burn when compared  
to a cantilevered wing of the same  
technology level.
Other projects are aimed at electric  
propulsion maturation of various types.  
Our work in electric aviation and power  
systems is advancing in our joint venture 
Wisk, which is working to develop, test  
and certify battery-electric vehicles and  
their safe, autonomous deployment in  
the airspace. For example, Cora, a two-  
passenger eVTOL air taxi that we’re  
developing with Wisk has flown more than 
1,500 successful test flights since 2017.
Boeing has researched hydrogen, green  
hydrogen and fuel cell applications for over  
15 years, including five demonstration projects 
and significant space-based experiences.  
The insights gained through our flight-  
demonstration programs with hydrogen  
fuel cells and combustion engines are 
informing future studies on scaled systems, 
configurations and infrastructure.To accelerate innovation, we also use  
our ecoDemonstrator flying test bed  
program to take promising technologies  
out of the lab and test them in the air.  
The ecoDemonstrator has tested over  
170 projects on seven airplanes to date,  
including the advanced technology  
winglets that save fuel, a laser system  
that can detect clear air turbulence and  
landing gear that lessens noise.
How do you see governments  
playing a role in decarbonizing  
aviation, sustainable aerospace, and  
how can Boeing help?
Government support and policy incentives 
for the private sector are critical, especially to 
enable a transition to widespread pathways 
and production of sustainable aviation fuels. 
Government has a vital role in providing a 
clear, dedicated path to commercialization  
of SAF and supporting a diverse and  
sustainable feedstock supply. Increasing 
production and supply capacity as well as 
lowering the cost of sustainable fuel so it  
becomes price-competitive with conventional 
fuel are key measures that could facilitate 
wider use by airlines. 
More specifically, developing regulatory 
and financial incentives for the investment, 
research, development, deployment and 
distribution of SAF should be a priority. Such 
an incentive-based approach would enable 
airlines to make purchase commitments at 
prices equivalent to conventional fuel and 
create stable market demand as the industry 
continues to innovate and scale. In addition, a holistic framework unique to aviation that 
increases supply growth and stimulates 
technology development should complement 
such incentive mechanisms. Finally, de-risking 
project capital for pioneer and early-stage 
facilities is also crucial for ensuring that more 
SAF technologies reach commercial scale.
Government also has a role in continuing  
to ensure a level playing field for aircraft  
operators who need certainty that their  
new airplanes will be certified to the ICAO 
requirements. For example, in the United 
States, Boeing is supportive of the recently 
finalized EPA aircraft CO2 rule because it 
codifies this important global standard and 
facilitates manufacturers’ certification to  
those emission requirements. The EPA rule 
aligns with the international standard  
adopted by ICAO and already in place by  
the European Union.
What is Boeing doing inside its  
own operations to reduce greenhouse  
gas emissions? 
Just as our customers expect operational 
efficiencies to reduce emissions, we know 
sustainable aerospace starts inside our  
four walls. We are focused on continual  
improvements in pursuit of the sustainable 
product life cycle. In 2020 we achieved 
net-zero at our manufacturing and worksites 
by expanding conservation and renewable  
energy use while tapping responsible  
offsets for the remaining greenhouse gas 
emissions. We are proud of our team  
and their long-standing commitment to  
conservation, recycling and the increased  use of renewable energy; however, there’s  
still much to do. We have an employee 
engagement team dedicated to implementing 
new ideas and events to drive positive  
behavioral change every day. 
The next generation of aircraft incorporates 
the latest digital design, test and production 
tools as well. These digital tools were used 
on the U.S. Air Force T-7A Red Hawk, which 
is now entering production. Improvements 
associated with design and production are 
impressive, with a 75% increase in first-time 
engineering quality and an 80% reduction 
in assembly hours. (See Page 36  for more 
information on the T-7A Red Hawk.) Boeing 
Australia has also used this type of innovation 
on the Airpower Teaming System autonomous 
vehicle being developed for the Royal  
Australian Air Force.
Boeing Defence Australia C-17A maintenance operations 
planning analyst Jared Parker tests Boeing’s augmented 
training operations and maintenance solution. It allows 
aircraft technicians to perform critical maintenance on  
the Royal Australian Air Force’s giant cargo workhorse, 
the Boeing C-17 Globemaster III, remotely from anywhere 
in the world — viewing real-time, hands-free, interactive 
3D holograms right before their eyes.
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
INTRODUCTION  10
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services
 Communities Operations2008
Boeing commits to  
making an entire  
family of commercial 
airplanes 100% SAF 
capable by 20302021Sustainable Aerospace Firsts
2016
A Virgin Atlantic 747 makes  
the world’s first sustainable  
aviation fuel test flight using  
a commercial aircraftA Boeing-converted Diamond 
DA20 conducts the world’s 
first crewed flight using fuel 
cells powered by hydrogen2010
Boeing supports the supersonic 
flight of a U.S. Navy F/A-18  
on a 50/50 SAF blend - U.S. 
Navy photo
The Phantom Eye uncrewed 
aircraft flies several flights 
powered by liquid hydrogen2009 2011
The Boeing 787 Dreamliner 
becomes the first commercial 
airplane made largely from 
lightweight carbon composites, 
informing efficient design
Boeing is a founding member of the 
International Aerospace Environmental 
Group, developing a standard approach 
to supply chain environmental issues  
and innovative solutions for the  
aerospace industry2012
The ecoDemonstrator 737-800 
tests regenerative hydrogen 
fuel cell technology for onboard 
auxiliary power applications2015
Boeing supports research to 
help small-scale farmers in South 
Africa bring their feedstock crops 
to the aviation biofuel market
A Boeing uncrewed demonstrator 
flies over 100 flights in Spain 
using fuel cells powered by  
green hydrogen2018
The ecoDemonstrator 777 Freighter  
becomes the first commercial airliner  
in the world to fly on 100% SAF2019
Boeing and ELG Carbon Fibre Ltd. create a 
first-of-its-kind partnership to recycle excess 
carbon composite fiber generated from  
making 777X wings
Boeing joint venture Wisk  
begins flight-testing the Cora  
electric air taxi for urban  
mobility markets2014
Boeing matures its Transonic 
Truss-Based Wing concept  
after its first wind tunnel test
Boeing breaks ground on the 
LEED Gold-certified North 
Charleston, South Carolina 787 
Final Assembly Facility, creating 
an environmentally responsible 
approach to constructionBoeing partners with the U.S. Air 
Force on an in-depth fuel study 
as part of their efforts to certify the 
C-17 Globemaster to use SAF
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
INTRODUCTION  11
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services
 Communities OperationsAPPROACH &  
GOVERNANCE
Boeing understands that sustainability is an integral part of our business now and in the future. 
We seek to make our processes and actions transparent while integrating and elevating 
sustainability across our global enterprise and the aerospace industry. We reinforce this 
approach with an unwavering commitment to our values.
Boeing’s H-47 Chinook helicopter is an advanced,  
battle-tested heavy-lift helicopter supporting cargo and 
troop transport, humanitarian and special operations  
missions for defense forces around the world.
APPROACH & GOVERNANCE  12
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Communities Operations Appendix Approach & Governance Products & ServicesPrimary Business Units
Boeing Commercial Airplanes  designs, 
builds and delivers airplanes that bring superior 
design, efficiency and value to our customers. 
Today, the company manufactures the 737, 
747, 767, 777, 787 Dreamliner and Boeing 
Business Jet families of airplanes. Our 
airplanes fly farther on less fuel, reduce airport 
noise and emissions, and provide passenger- 
preferred comfort while delivering superior 
performance to operators. The company also 
offers the most-complete family of freighters, 
and about 90% of the world’s cargo is carried 
on board Boeing planes. 
In 2020
$16.2B Commercial Airplanes$26.3B Defense, Space & Security
$15.5B Global Services$58B2020 Revenue
10-year served market
$2.6T Defense
$2.9T Commercial
$3.0T Services$8.5T2020 Boeing
Market Outlook
$8.5T2020 Boeing
Market Outlook
11% outside the U.S. 
73,700 Enterprise (including Engineering)34,600 Commercial Airplanes
17,600 Global Services15,000 Defense, Space & Security141K2020 Employment
(See 2020 Annual Report )By the NumbersBoeing protects, connects and explores  
our world and beyond. As a leading global 
aerospace company, Boeing develops, 
manufactures and services commercial 
airplanes, defense products and space 
systems for customers in more than 150 
countries. As a top U.S. exporter, the company 
leverages the talents of a global supplier  
base to advance economic opportunity, 
sustainability and positive community 
impact. Boeing’s diverse team is committed  
to innovating for the future and living the 
company’s core values of safety, quality  
and integrity. 
The company continues to expand its  
product line and services to meet emerging 
customer needs, including developing more-  
efficient commercial airplanes; designing, 
building and integrating military platforms  
and defense systems; creating advanced 
technology solutions; and arranging  
innovative financing and services  
for customers.
Boeing employs a diverse, talented and 
innovative workforce across the United  
States and in more than 65 countries.  
Our operations occupied 86 million square 
feet (8 million square meters) of floor space  
as of Dec. 31, 2020, of which approximately 
93% was located in the United States.  
Our enterprise also leverages the talents  
of hundreds of thousands of skilled people 
working for Boeing suppliers worldwide.Boeing Defense, Space & Security offers 
leading and innovative solutions for global 
defense, government and commercial 
customers across a portfolio that includes 
mobility and surveillance aircraft, fighter jets, 
military rotorcraft, human space exploration 
programs, satellites, autonomous systems, 
strategic deterrence and weapons systems. 
Through strategic investments in research  
and development, Defense, Space & Security  
is focused on providing the most digitally 
advanced, simply and efficiently produced 
solutions to our global customers.Boeing Global Services  customers rely  
on Boeing teammates around the world  
to connect passengers, deliver cargo and 
accomplish the mission. With unparalleled 
access to industry innovators, agile execution 
and a global presence, Global Services 
provides efficient, off-the-shelf and tailored 
products, programs and services across 
every stage of the aviation life cycle. The 
solutions we deliver help solve complex 
challenges; improve customer outcomes in 
life-cycle cost, readiness, safety and reliability; 
and enable customers to grow and realize 
new business and mission objectives.Company Profile
APPROACH & GOVERNANCE  13
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Communities Operations Appendix Approach & Governance Products & ServicesPEOPLE
Healthy and EmpoweredPRODUCTS & SERVICES
Safe and Sustainable
Our story starts with our people. We 
commit to advancing a collaborative, 
inclusive and globally diverse culture that 
creates unique careers in aerospace.We innovate for a better tomorrow.  
We demonstrate an unwavering  
commitment to safety, quality and  
integrity and instill best practices in all 
that we do.COMMUNITIES
Purposeful Partnerships
Our communities matter to us.  
We focus on global partnerships 
and programs that inspire our future 
through education, honor our heroes 
and strengthen our homes.OPERATIONS
Responsible and Resilient
It’s not just what we do — it’s also how 
we do it. We operate sustainably and 
engage transparently on behalf of our 
customers and stakeholders.In October 2020, Boeing appointed Chris 
Raymond as its first Chief Sustainability Officer 
(CSO), a Boeing Executive Council position. 
Raymond is responsible for advancing 
Boeing’s approach to sustainability, focusing 
on priorities, stakeholder-oriented reporting 
and company performance. The CSO  
leads the Global Enterprise Sustainability 
organization, designed to sharpen our focus 
on key environmental, social and governance 
efforts through dedicated leadership alignment 
in these areas. Additionally, a Chief Engineer  
was appointed to advance Boeing’s expertise 
in sustainability technologies as well as  
future mobility applications, and a new  
Global Sustainability Policy and Partnerships 
leader strengthens our company focus on 
sustainability outside of the United States. Reinforcing our commitment and enterprise 
approach, a Global Sustainability Council 
composed of global leaders from across our 
business units and functions was established 
to provide executive leadership, advocacy 
and partnership with the sustainability 
organization to advance our objectives  
and strategy.
We have organized our sustainability efforts 
around four key pillars: People, Products  
& Services, Operations and Communities. 
Our sustainability priorities and enterprise 
initiatives are managed through these pillars, 
with key goals and metrics monitored by 
company leaders. (See examples of key  
metrics in the report Appendix, Page 72 .)Collaboration
Boeing assesses and manages sustainability 
opportunities, challenges and risks under 
each pillar in collaboration with functional 
leaders. The Board of Directors and senior 
leaders have the responsibility to ensure we 
identify and mitigate the many strategic, 
technological, operational and compliance 
risks we face, all with our core values of 
safety, quality and integrity at the forefront. 
The company’s robust approach to risk 
management is achieved through our 
Enterprise Risk Management processes 
(further described on Page 21 ).
Sustainability PillarsSustainability Approach
Boeing worked with local community stakeholders to 
create the Pollinator Prairie in Olathe, near Kansas City, 
Kansas, as part of its cleanup effort at the former Chemical 
Commodities Inc. site. The habitat consists of mostly 
native plants that provide bees, birds and butterflies food, 
shelter and safe areas for breeding.
APPROACH & GOVERNANCE  14
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Communities Operations Appendix Approach & Governance Products & ServicesThe following key priorities will be addressed throughout this report.As an international aerospace and defense 
leader seeking to protect, connect and explore 
our world and beyond, Boeing has many 
diverse global commercial and government 
market stakeholders. Our key stakeholders 
include our communities, customers, current 
and future employees, the flying public, 
investors, regulators and suppliers. In the 
normal course of business, we regularly 
engage these groups to discuss and  
understand their interests. This dialogue and 
collaboration informs our approach, goals  
and actions to drive sustainable, long-term 
value for our stakeholders.Sustainability Priorities
In 2020, we reflected on our company  
values, the current state of our business  
and global conditions as we set out to define  
our sustainability priorities. We considered 
stakeholders’ interests and multiple  
sustainability frameworks to identify  
and prioritize the most relevant issues. 
We have defined key sustainability priorities 
and aligned them with responsible and 
inclusive business practices to enable  
a positive global impact. Our 11 priority  
areas reflect stakeholder insights, refreshed 
objectives, and balanced risk and opportunity 
across environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. These priorities inform the focus 
of this report, align to our pillars, and include 
short- and long-term strategic approaches  
to sustainability. As our sustainability journey 
and learnings progress, we plan to expand 
stakeholder engagement and mature our 
priorities assessment over time.
Reporting Approach and Alignment
To address the diverse interests of our 
stakeholders, we have brought together a 
comprehensive view of our ESG activities and 
data in this report and are providing indexes 
with alignment to the Global Reporting Initiative 
CLIMATE ACTION  
Innovation to reduce the environmental 
impact of our products, services and  
operations to address challenges posed  
by climate change.(GRI), Sustainability Accounting Standards 
Board (SASB), Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and the United 
Nations Sustainable Development Goals  
(U.N. SDGs) in the Appendix. We support the 
goals of the Paris Agreement and consider 
climate change to be an urgent issue.  
We demonstrate the importance of climate 
considerations to the company by aligning  
our governance, strategy, risk management, 
metrics and targets to the TCFD core  
elements. To supplement this report,  
we publish additional information at  
boeing.com/sustainability .
EMPLOYEE SAFETY &  
WELL-BEING
Holistic approach to employee safety and 
overall well-being, including physical, financial 
and mental health components at work and 
at home.ENVIRONMENTALLY  
RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS
Investment and initiatives to reduce the 
environmental impact of operations through 
sustainable practices including resource  
conservation and energy efficiency.EQUITY, DIVERSITY  
& INCLUSION
Advancement of equity, diversity and  
inclusion policies to create safe, productive 
and innovative workplace environments in 
which all employees can thrive.
APPROACH & GOVERNANCE  15
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Communities Operations Appendix Approach & Governance Products & ServicesEDUCATION &  
SKILL DEVELOPMENT
Investment in our workforce to attract and 
retain the best-qualified talent, including 
tuition reimbursement, learning programs, 
professional development and upskilling 
opportunities.
RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY  
CHAIN PRACTICES
Applying sustainable supply chain principles, 
including supply chain diversity, small  
business utilization and upholding human 
rights to create resilience and stability within 
our supply base.PRODUCT & SERVICES  
SAFETY & QUALITY
Implementation of systems that continually 
reinforce and improve the safety and quality  
of product and services.
ETHICAL BUSINESS  
PRACTICES
Ethical behavior and compliance in all  
aspects of business operations to enhance 
management practices, overcome challenges 
and mitigate enterprise risk.Sustainability Priorities  (continued)
DATA PRIVACY &  
INFORMATION SECURITY
Implementation of security practices and 
product security engineering to protect 
networks, systems and information from 
external threats and to enable only authorized 
use. Implementation of privacy controls  
to enable transparent, responsible and  
accountable processing of personal information.ECONOMIC  
PERFORMANCE
Driving business performance and responding 
to stakeholder needs through responsible 
business practices. COMMUNITY  
ENGAGEMENT
Investment in global communities through 
employee volunteerism, innovative partner -
ships and programs with a focus on STEM, 
veterans care and community development.
APPROACH & GOVERNANCE  16
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Communities Operations Appendix Approach & Governance Products & ServicesSustainability Goals
To reflect our ambition, Boeing has set six 
2030 goals to advance sustainable aerospace 
in alignment with our key sustainability 
priorities and stakeholder interests. 
We are laser focused on these ambitions 
today and are in the process of developing 
waypoints and metrics to demonstrate 
progress, hold ourselves accountable, and 
push ourselves to be and do better. We will 
share our metrics and waypoints to 2030  
in our next report. EMPLOYEE SAFETY  
& WELL-BEING
Value human life and well-being above all 
else and take action accordingly; we strive  
to prevent all workplace injuries.GLOBAL AEROSPACE  
SAFETY
Drive aerospace safety to prevent accidents, 
injury or loss of life, with our Boeing culture 
and actions rooted in safety.EQUITY, DIVERSITY  
& INCLUSION
Address representation gaps and strengthen 
equity, diversity and inclusion so that all team 
members feel supported and inspired to 
reach their full potential.
INNOVATION &  
CLEAN TECHNOLOGY
Enable the transition to carbon neutral 
aerospace through investments and 
partnerships for fleet efficiency  
improvements, sustainable aviation  
fuel and future platform technologies.SUSTAINABLE  
OPERATIONS
Maintain a net-zero future for Boeing  
operations through conservation and  
renewable energy; partner with the supply  
chain for responsible business practices. COMMUNITY  
ENGAGEMENT
Build better, more equitable communities 
through corporate investments, employee 
engagement programs and advocacy efforts.
APPROACH & GOVERNANCE  17
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Communities Operations Appendix Approach & Governance Products & ServicesAt Boeing, we believe that how we do our 
work is just as important as the work that we 
do. Safety, quality and integrity must be at  
the forefront as we design, build and service 
our products. And we live these priorities by 
holding ourselves to the highest standards  
in our work, how we do it and how we treat 
one another. 
Across our global enterprise, Boeing  
employees are united by a shared commitment 
to our values including transparency,  
accountability and respect, which serve  
as the guiding principles for all we do. We 
believe that compliance and ethical behavior 
are everyone’s responsibility. Boeing’s Global Compliance organization, led 
by Uma Amuluru, Chief Compliance Officer 
and Vice President of Global Compliance, 
enables compliant company performance 
across all geographic locations, strengthens 
integrity and transparency, and demonstrates 
our commitment to fair and ethical business 
practices. She works closely with the Board 
of Directors, senior company leadership and 
external stakeholders to advance Boeing’s 
compliance and ethics culture throughout the 
company. She also co-chairs the Compliance 
Risk Management Board and is a member  
of the Executive Council.Starting at the Top: Boeing’s  
Board of Directors Champions  
Ethical Guidelines
Boeing’s Board of Directors, referred to  
as the Board in this report, recognizes that  
the long-term interests of the company are 
advanced when they are responsive to the 
concerns of communities, customers, 
employees, public officials, shareholders, 
suppliers and other stakeholders.
The Board oversees our compliance and 
ethics programs through regular meetings 
with our Chief Compliance Officer, periodic 
reviews of program metrics and other  Ethical and Compliant Business 
“ Our people design, build and support 
aerospace products that touch and  
affect lives around the world. That’s why  
we are committed to doing business  
and operating with integrity at all times.  
At Boeing, we have zero tolerance  
for corruption or bribery, and we  
are dedicated to building a culture that  
fosters openness, trust and accountability.” 
  Uma Amuluru, Chief Compliance Officer  
and Vice President, Global Compliance
Seek, Speak & Listen
Across our company, we’re focused on building three habits — seeking, speaking and  
listening — to strengthen our global team and drive stronger business outcomes. These habits 
are how we accomplish our business goals and priorities. The Seek, Speak & Listen (SS&L) 
habits empower us to connect across differences, learn from one another and make better 
decisions. By fully embracing these habits, we can improve quality, safety and performance  
for our employees and external stakeholders. The habits are also foundational to a culture  
of integrity and inclusion.
SEEK:  Awareness can teach us and help us improve. Seeking out 
pockets of concern or different perspectives helps us make better 
decisions and strengthen an inclusive culture.
SPEAK:  It’s the right thing to do, and every voice matters.  
It’s critical for us to speak up so we can address issues before  
they become problems. 
LISTEN:  It is a necessary component of learning and leads to better 
decisions. To be successful we need to actively listen to one another 
and create a space where all voices are heard.key indexes of how we are shaping our  
values and meeting our commitments. This 
oversight is conducted by both the Audit 
Committee and the full Board.
Our Board commits to a code of ethics, 
which serves as a source of guiding principles 
and identifies key areas to foster ethical 
decision-making, including a focus on 
compliance with laws, rules and regulations; 
confidentiality; avoiding conflicts of interest; 
and reporting of illegal or unethical behavior. 
Directors are encouraged to bring questions 
about particular situations to the attention  
of the chair of the Governance & Public 
Policy Committee.
APPROACH & GOVERNANCE  18
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Communities Operations Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services1.  Inquiries comprise Requests for Guidance and Information Requests. Requests for Guidance are situations where employees are seeking guidance when facing ethical dilemmas 
or when they need assistance in understanding company polices or expected behaviors. Information Requests are situations where employees are seeking general information. 
Both demonstrate awareness of Boeing’s Ethics and Compliance program, but Requests for Guidance are viewed as the most positive types of contact.
2. Data reflects the reporting period of November 2019 through October 2020.
3.  Investigated matters are considered unsubstantiated when the investigation findings do not support a violation of policy or expected behaviors or where there is not sufficient 
evidence of misconduct. 
4.  A recent evaluation demonstrated that Boeing’s substantiation rate is slightly higher than other published benchmarks, indicating an effective investigation process and informed 
reporting by company employees.of investigated  
requests were  
substantiated447%Boeing Employees Reaffirm  
Annual Commitment to Our  
Values, Code of Conduct
Inspired by our values, all Boeing employees 
are guided by the Boeing Code of Conduct. 
New employees sign the Code when they join 
the company, and each year all employees 
reaffirm their commitment to do their jobs in  
a fair, ethical and compliant manner.
Compliance is everyone’s responsibility  
at Boeing, and employees must hold 
themselves — and each other — accountable 
to following all rules and regulations and to 
doing what is right. 
For almost two decades, Boeing has held 
annual training for all employees to recommit 
to our company values. In 2020, Boeing used 
this training to emphasize the:
 –Importance of transparency with all 
stakeholders, including government 
regulators and customers.  
 –Significance of creating an  
accountable workplace.
 –Need to treat co-workers, customers, 
regulators and stakeholders with the 
utmost respect.
 –Obligation of everyone to speak up when 
something does not align with our values. 
The training features leaders and employees 
sharing insight about what is working and 
where the company can improve, to ensure 
mistakes are not repeated.When Employees Speak Up,  
Boeing Listens and Takes Action
At Boeing, we know that in order to improve 
we need to be open to new ideas, concerns 
and criticism. To foster an open and  
accountable workplace culture and candid 
conversations, we are doing the following:
OFFERING MULTIPLE CHANNELS  
TO REPORT CONCERNS
Reinforcing our Seek, Speak & Listen habits, 
Boeing encourages employees to have open 
and candid conversations with managers 
and leaders at every level. If employees feel 
uncomfortable speaking up, the company  
also offers confidential and anonymous  
reporting channels.These channels include the Ethics U.S.  
domestic and global reporting hotlines;  
Ethics portal; a team of Ethics Advisors; and 
the Speak Up website, where employees can 
go to report issues or concerns regarding 
product or service safety or quality, workplace 
safety or ethics.
PROTECTING THOSE WHO SPEAK UP
We have seen the serious consequences  
our entire company faces when we don’t 
seek, speak and listen. It is our individual  
responsibility to hold ourselves and one  
another accountable to support an  
environment where employees feel  
empowered to raise concerns without  fear of reprisal. Boeing enforces a strict non-  
retaliation policy, reinforced by annual training 
and recurrent employee communication.
Understanding Ethical Concerns  
With Data 
We are improving our ability to analyze available 
reporting data to identify areas of concern, 
understand the root cause of the problem  
and address any issues. The chart below 
demonstrates Boeing’s efforts to respond to 
ethical concerns. Additionally, our anonymous 
reporting rate is lower than other published 
benchmarks, which suggests employees 
generally trust management to address their 
concerns and do not fear retaliation.
4,786
1,8643,181inquiries1
investigative requests
conflict of interest  
determinations
9,831total contacts with Ethics submitted  
by employees in 202023,561
of investigative  
requests had enough  
 information to  
 investigate3
APPROACH & GOVERNANCE  19
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Communities Operations Appendix Approach & Governance Products & ServicesWhy Compromising Boeing’s Values 
Is Not an Option
Boeing has zero tolerance for bribery  
and corruption of any kind, and we remain 
committed to competing globally with 
transparency and honesty. We believe that 
businesses should compete on the basis of 
quality, price and service and in compliance 
with applicable anti-corruption laws, including 
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and 
equivalent global laws.  
Anti-Corruption Program
To ensure compliance, Boeing has a robust 
anti-corruption program that includes 
extensive controls, rigorous policies and 
procedures, and an annual risk assessment 
to ensure effectiveness and identify potential 
enhancement opportunities.
Additionally, retaliation against reporting parties 
is strictly prohibited, and appropriate action  
is taken against violators of anti-retaliation 
policies. Boeing also ensures that employees are aware of their federally protected whistle-  
blower rights, which are designed to protect 
employees against retaliation for reporting 
potential wrongdoing by a U.S. government 
contractor or subcontractor.
Commitments and Actions on  
Human Rights
Boeing is committed to responsible business 
practices and promoting positive change 
while simultaneously creating value for our 
customers, shareholders and other stake- 
holders. In recognition of this commitment, 
the company has developed policies and 
practices designed to enforce our Code  
of Basic Working Conditions and Human 
Rights. We expect similar commitments  
and behaviors from our suppliers. These 
expectations are incorporated into our 
supplier contracts and monitored through 
both in-person engagements and third-  
party monitors.
   To learn more about Boeing’s commitment  
to human rights issues, visit www.boeing.com/
principles/human-rights .page .Business
Courtesies
Non-Sales/
Teaming 
AgreementsNon-U.S.
Political 
Contributions
Employment
of Government
Officials & Their
RelativesGrants,
Donations
Sponsorships,
MembershipsSuppliers &
Anti-KickbackMergers, 
Acquisitions,
Equity Investments 
& Joint Ventures   International
Consultants
Anti-
Corruption 
ComplianceBooks & Records
International Accounting & Financial Controls
Boeing’s Anti-Corruption Compliance Program is organized into nine risk areas, including Books and Records, each 
governed by detailed policies and procedures to demonstrate the company’s zero tolerance for corruption.
APPROACH & GOVERNANCE  20
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Communities Operations Appendix Approach & Governance Products & ServicesAs a company at the forefront of innovation, 
Boeing takes measured risks each day. 
Senior management is responsible for 
day-to-day risk management, including the 
creation and implementation of risk manage -
ment policies and procedures. The Board  
is responsible for overseeing management  
in the execution of its risk management 
responsibilities and for assessing the  
company’s approach to risk management.
Board of Directors 
The Board has extensive oversight of key 
strategic, operational and compliance risks, 
with a sharpened focus on risks that could 
affect the safety and quality of our products 
and services, as well as other risks such as 
cybersecurity. The Board has significant 
involvement in strategy development, such as 
efforts to reduce emissions in our production 
facilities, develop targeted community 
engagement strategies, and enhance 
workforce diversity and inclusion. The  
Board also oversees our global ethics and 
compliance efforts, corporate culture, and 
political and charitable contributions.Governance and Risk Management
Recent Board discussions have addressed 
shareholder feedback on a variety of topics, 
including Board leadership, company culture, 
executive compensation, sustainability 
priorities and strategic priorities, often 
resulting in changes to our policies and 
practices as well as guiding the focus of 
discussions in the boardroom. For example, 
in 2020, we amended our Corporate  
Governance Principles to require that our 
Board chair be an independent director.  
In addition, this past April, we made a public 
commitment to provide additional disclosures 
regarding our political advocacy activities, 
including additional detail regarding the 
Board’s oversight role and our policies and 
procedures in this area. We believe that these 
enhancements will give shareholders and 
other stakeholders insight into how our Board 
assesses the risks and opportunities related 
to engagement in the political process, 
enabling us to advance our shared priorities 
in a way that supports Boeing’s core values.  
The Board oversees a variety of sustainability-  
related topics in the following areas, including 
through its committees. The Governance & 
Public Policy Committee’s responsibilities 
include overseeing the company’s practices relating to public policy and corporate 
sustainability, including matters related to 
environmental stewardship and climate 
change and diversity, equity, and inclusion,  
as well as the company’s political  
advocacy efforts and expenditures; making  
recommendations to the board with respect  
to board composition and refreshment; and 
overseeing annual performance evaluations  
of the board and individual directors. 
RISK MANAGEMENT 
The Board regularly assesses significant risks 
to the company in the course of reviews of 
corporate strategy and the development  
of our long-range business plan, including 
significant new development programs.  
As part of their responsibilities, the Board  
and its standing committees also regularly 
review strategic, operational, financial, 
compensation and compliance risks with 
senior management. Examples of risk 
oversight activities conducted by the Board’s 
committees, subject to committee report-outs 
and full discussion at the Board level, can be 
found in Boeing’s 2021 Proxy Statement .
PRODUCT SAFETY
The Aerospace Safety Committee, estab -
lished by the Board in 2019, is responsible for 
directly overseeing our engineering, design, 
development, manufacturing, production, 
operations, maintenance and delivery of 
aerospace products and services in order to 
ensure the safety of our commercial, defense, 
space and other aerospace products and 
services. In addition, the Aerospace Safety Committee consults with the Compensation 
Committee in connection with the safety 
review portion of the individual executive 
performance evaluations.
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
The Board actively oversees our efforts on 
diversity and inclusion, including regular 
reviews of workplace diversity metrics,  
regular reviews of complaints received — and 
corrective actions taken — related to behavior 
that is inconsistent with our values, and 
supervision of our outreach efforts. The Board 
is also committed to the diversity of its own 
membership, with 45% of our directors, 
including three committee chairs, being 
diverse with respect to gender or race/
ethnicity (as of July 2021).
CLIMATE CHANGE
Environmental sustainability is an integral part 
of our strategy, and the Board has significant 
involvement in strategy development for our 
products, services and operations. We take 
into account how every product we build and 
service we provide affects our world now  
and in the future. That is one reason why 
each new generation of Boeing airplanes 
reduces emissions and fuel use 15%-25% 
more than the previous generation and has 
noise footprints up to 50% smaller than its  
predecessors. We have also committed to 
reducing greenhouse gas emissions from  
our operations by 25% by 2025 (from  
2017 levels) and achieved net-zero at our  
manufacturing and worksites for the first time 
in 2020.
APPROACH & GOVERNANCE  21
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Communities Operations Appendix Approach & Governance Products & ServicesCompliance Risk Management  
Board and Enterprise  
Risk Visibility 
 –The Compliance Risk Management Board 
(CRMB), jointly co-chaired by Boeing’s 
Chief Compliance Officer and Controller, 
includes senior company leaders who 
identify, evaluate and prioritize the most 
significant compliance risks; assess 
mitigation strategies; and provide visibility 
to Boeing’s CEO and the Audit Committee 
of the Board. The CRMB also regularly 
pressure-tests the risk mitigation measures 
to ensure the strongest compliance 
program possible.
 –Results of the compliance risk management 
assessment are incorporated into Enterprise 
Risk Visibility (ERV). The full Board reviews 
enterprise risks on a regular basis as well  
as conducts regular reviews of our ethics 
and business conduct programs. 
 –CRMB and ERV assess risks to the 
company and industry, including topics 
within the environmental, social and 
governance elements of sustainability,  
such as climate and policy change.
 –The Chief Compliance Officer, with 
involvement from other senior executives, 
reports at least annually to the Audit 
Committee on Boeing’s compliance with 
risk management processes as well as 
provides regular reporting on the company’s 
compliance and ethics programs. –All employees, from senior leaders to  
new workers, receive annual training on 
compliance risk areas tailored to their 
specific work, including U.S. Department  
of Defense procurement rules, proper 
handling of sensitive information and 
anti-corruption.
Business Continuity Management
Boeing navigated a series of challenges  
in 2020 that had clear implications for the 
company’s risk profile, including:
 –Economic and workplace disruptions 
brought on by COVID-19. 
 –Social and political issues.
 –Organizational and structural challenges. 
 –Regulatory review of the 737 MAX. 
Through Business Continuity Management 
practices, we identify vulnerabilities and 
develop recovery strategies and plan to 
minimize the consequences and impact  
of potential threats or disruptions. Boeing 
Business Continuity Management is built on 
five unique programs: Business Preparedness, 
Emergency Preparedness, Information 
Technology Preparedness, Supply Chain 
Preparedness and Human Resource  
Preparedness, all of which come together  
to help Boeing recover from an emergency  
or disaster.Tax Governance and Compliance
Aligned with company values, we are 
committed to being a responsible taxpayer  
in every jurisdiction where we operate.  
Our global team of tax professionals is 
responsible for maintaining the highest 
compliance standards, being transparent  
in our dealings with tax authorities and 
sustaining robust internal controls for risk 
management. Boeing’s approach to taxes 
includes a commitment to ethical business 
practices, tax guidance that follows business 
substance, and our obligation to protect the 
interests of the company and its shareholders.
   Please visit our website for a more  
in-depth analysis of Boeing’s approach to  
Global Tax Governance and Compliance .
“ Sustainability is a critical element of  
our Boeing framework and culture. As 
part of our commitment for responsible 
and ethical leadership we have adopted 
sustainability into our approach for  
how we manage enterprise risk.  
For us, managing risk is about truly 
understanding and adapting for the 
dynamic and complex global landscape 
in which we operate.”   
   Carol Hibbard, Senior Vice President  
and Controller
APPROACH & GOVERNANCE  22
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Communities Operations Appendix Approach & Governance Products & ServicesPEOPLE
Healthy and Empowered People
Our story starts with our people. We commit to advancing a collaborative, inclusive and 
globally diverse culture that creates unique careers in aerospace. Our people create value  
for all stakeholders. Our global community — composed of more than 140,000 people of all 
backgrounds, ethnicities, identities and perspectives — is foundational to our continued 
success. United by a common goal to protect, connect and explore, our team is working 
every day to develop, build and service world-class aerospace products while supporting our 
customers. Boeing enables those efforts by prioritizing employee safety; fostering an equitable, 
diverse and inclusive work environment; providing professional development opportunities  
to position our team for the future; and offering comprehensive and competitive benefits.
Richa Gupta,  
Project Management Specialist,  
Corporate ComplianceSustainability Goals
EMPLOYEE SAFETY AND WELL-BEING
Value human life and well-being above all  
else and take action accordingly; we strive  
to prevent all workplace injuries 
EQUITY , DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION 
Address representation gaps and strengthen 
equity, diversity and inclusion so that all team 
members feel supported and inspired to 
reach their full potentialU.N. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
PEOPLE  23
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsNothing is more important than safety — in  
the workplace and in the products we design, 
build and support. We are committed to 
keeping our employees safe by fostering a 
positive safety culture, cultivating safe work 
environments and strengthening our safety 
processes through continuous improvement, 
learning and innovation.
The Safety Guiding Principles provide a 
framework to achieve the goal of zero 
workplace injuries so every person who works 
at, or visits, a Boeing site leaves as safe and 
healthy as when they arrived. Boeing’s 
workplace safety program, Go for Zero, is a 
holistic approach to preventing sickness or 
injuries at work and at home, stemming from 
the belief that every injury is preventable.
950 
Health and Safety  
Training Courses  
Available24:1
Near Miss to Hazard  
(ratio to recordable injuries)
98% 
Found/Fixed Metric 
0.43 
Lost Workday  
(case rate out of full day) WORKPLACE SAFETY  
BY THE NUMBERSAchieving zero injuries is a constant  
endeavor. By continually identifying gaps and 
measuring progress using industry standard 
approaches, Boeing’s internal compliance 
requirements often exceed those set by 
government regulations.
Every employee has the responsibility to make 
safety and quality top priorities. Through 
valuing human life and well-being above all 
else and taking action accordingly, Boeing  
will continue to foster an open culture where 
people are empowered and encouraged to 
speak up about any concerns with the 
assurance that they will be taken seriously.
Boeing Everett employee Thyda Reath works with safety in mind.Safety-First Culture
“ Operating to keep ourselves and  
our teammates safe is everyone’s 
responsibility. Safety is absolutely central 
to everything we do for ourselves,  
our loved ones and our communities.”
   Kory Mathews, Vice President,  
Enterprise Services
PEOPLE  24
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsIn response to the COVID-19 pandemic, 
Boeing employees took critical steps to help 
keep themselves, their colleagues, their 
families and our communities safe. A majority 
of our employees began working remotely, 
while others quickly incorporated new 
COVID-19 safety practices into their work, 
which made it possible to safely reopen 
paused production lines. 
Our occupational health and safety  
management system conforms to the 
requirements of Occupational Health and 
Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001 
standard, and is migrating to International 
Organization for Standardization (ISO) 45001. 
As of 2020, 49 sites are verified to conform  
to OHSAS 18001 and are transitioning to 
conform to the ISO 45001:2018 standard.“ We’re focusing our efforts on safety, 
first-time quality, process discipline  
and debris prevention so we can  
deliver perfect products to our  
customers. And it all starts with  
keeping these commitments.” 
   Bill Osborne, Senior Vice President, Total 
Quality and Operations, Boeing Defense, 
Space & Security, and Chair, Enterprise 
Manufacturing Operations Council
Boeing and its mechanics work to develop a robust production system. Logan Schimon works in 737 Manufacturing.Safety-First Culture  (continued)
ONE BOEING PRODUCTION SYSTEM  
(ONE BPS) COMMITMENT
In everything we do and in all aspects of our business, we will ensure  
our people, safety and integrity are our top priorities by focusing on the  
One BPS Commitment and always striving for first-time quality.
• A safe workplace
•  The right training to do work safely  
and with first-pass quality
•   The right tools, properly calibrated  
for the work
•  The right part, defect-free at the  
point of use
•  Feedback on individual and  
team performance 
•  Reward and recognition for a job  
well done
•  A way to call for and receive timely help
PEOPLE  25
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities Operations“ This is testament to the great 
work that can be executed  
by engineers working directly 
with the folks who do the  
job every day to make their 
work safer.”
  Kadon Kyte, Enterprise Human 
Factors EngineerHow an Idea on a Napkin Became a New 
Boeing Standard
Boeing has made the reduction and eventual 
elimination of sanding-related ergonomic risk 
a top priority.
Sanding overhead surfaces can present 
ergonomic risk due to strain on the shoulders 
and vibrations in the hands. Kadon Kyte,  
a human factors engineer, had the unique 
experience of investigating potential solutions 
for this challenge — and even trying  
them himself.
After 15 minutes of sanding an aircraft, Kyte 
noticed discomfort in his shoulders, arms and 
neck. As he mulled the problem, a simple  
but potentially promising concept came to 
mind: a sanding rotator head coupled to an 
extendable actuator rod. Kyte sketched on 
the most time-honored of inventor’s tools,  
a napkin.
EXPERTS CREATE PROTOTYPE IN DAYS
Kyte shared the monopodic — pertaining to  
a single foot — sanding device drawing with 
engineering colleagues Jason Kerestes  
and Colton Smoot. With their mechanical, 
SPOTLIGHT: Kadon Kyte 
robotics and fabrication experience, the three 
developed a working prototype in a few days. 
The concept was then successfully tested on 
simulated aircraft structures before moving  
on to a real-world test a few months later.
Kyte was the first to test the prototype. After 
an hour of testing, the team identified several 
areas for improvement and worked to make 
adjustments to ensure a usable product.
ERGO — AN INJURY-SAVING SOLUTION
The team has now developed three genera -
tions of the monopod sander, continually 
improving and implementing new standards 
for overhead aircraft sanding at Boeing.
Kadon Kyte, Enterprise Human Factors Engineer
PEOPLE  26
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsEquity, diversity and inclusion are foundational 
values at Boeing and key drivers of business 
outcomes, as well as safety, quality and 
innovation. Each member of our global team 
brings a unique perspective, and we grow 
stronger when everyone has an opportunity 
to contribute. We are committed to the 
necessary and challenging work of building 
an environment in which each teammate  
2Achieve parity in retention rates 
of all groups. 
3Close representation gaps for 
historically underrepresented groups.
Advance  common understanding, 
shared experiences and mutual respect.4
5Report diversity metrics and  
progress annually. Increase the Black representation 
rate in the U.S. by 20%. 1
6Eliminate  any statistically significant 
differences between the workplace 
experiences of underrepresented  
and at-representation groups.has a voice and feels inspired to achieve their 
full potential. Transparency is the foundation  
of this commitment, and we will share our 
progress each year in our new Global  
Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Report.  
2025 Global Equity, Diversity  
and Inclusion Aspirations
Boeing aspires to be the world’s most  
equitable, diverse and inclusive company. 
This vision is bold and will require us to live 
our commitments consistently, every day, 
across all levels. To address our representation 
gaps and build a culture of inclusion, we have 
established a set of aspirations we will strive  
to achieve by 2025:
   See the latest Global Equity, Diversity  
& Inclusion  report   for more detailed 
information.Boeing employees, left to right: Malika Allen, Taylor Hickman, Tiffany Javid, Trinity DowningGlobal Equity, Diversity and Inclusion 
Asian: 14.2%
Hispanic: 7.0%Black: 6.4% 
More: 3.6%322.9 %2  Women
14.8%  Veterans
31.2%1 Minorities2021 Diversity Metrics
1.  Race and Ethnicity Data: U.S.-based work locations of The Boeing Company, excluding non-fully integrated subsidiaries 
that are not on Boeing HR systems. 
2. Gender Data: U.S.-based work locations of The Boeing Company, excluding subsidiaries except where noted.
3. "More" includes American Indian/Alaskan Native, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, and Two or More Races. 
“ At Boeing, we know our success  
relies on our ability to honor and  
celebrate the best in everyone, of  
every background and identity. To  
create a culture where all teammates 
can achieve their full potential, we  
are seeking the perspectives of  
team members around the world, 
encouraging each other to speak  
up, share ideas and concerns, and 
succeed together. We will continue to 
amplify all voices at Boeing because 
inclusion makes our teams stronger,  
and it makes every one of us better.” 
   Sara Bowen, Vice President, Global Equity, 
Diversity & Inclusion
PEOPLE  27
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities Operations“ What’s happening across the U.S.  
now goes beyond discrimination and 
harassment, beyond diversity and 
inclusion. What we’re seeing is the 
ongoing human cost of historic and 
persistent racial inequality in the United 
States. It’s clear that we as a society —  
and as a company — have more 
progress to make in confronting  
racism and achieving racial equity.”
  Dave Calhoun, President and CEO
“ We are not only leaders in the aerospace industry but also leaders in addressing 
racial inequalities and discrimination. We recognize that this work starts internally. 
Boeing is a microcosm of broader society, which gives us a foundation and platform 
to make real change. We created the Racial Equity Task Force to take a hard look at 
ourselves in order to be better today and for future generations, while also hoping  
that our progress sets an example for the greater community.”
   Tommy Preston, Director, National Strategy & Engagement, Government Operations
“ As a company and as a society, we must do better to confront racism head-on, and 
we must do better now. People need to see progress, and with the Racial Equity Task 
Force, we’re taking specific actions to deliver on aspirations of diversity, equity and 
inclusion — both within Boeing and the communities in which we operate.”
   Leanne Caret, President and CEO, Boeing Defense, Space & SecuritySPOTLIGHT: Racial Justice Actions 
Addressing Human Cost of Persistent 
Racial Inequality
Boeing established a Racial Equity Task  
Force in 2020 to advance the cause of racial 
equity in our workplace and communities.  
The 20 members of the task force represent  
a diverse mix of viewpoints and experiences 
from different sites, positions and backgrounds. 
They will make recommendations on the 
company’s efforts, share ideas and advocate 
on behalf of underrepresented people  
across Boeing.
EQUITY ACTION PLAN 
1.  Advance inclusion and equity 
for all.
2. Confront racism head-on.
3.  Build and support a coalition 
among communities and 
suppliers.
PEOPLE  28
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsBoeing Business Resource Groups 
Nurture Equity, Diversity and Inclusion
Our differences make us better and  
representation matters. Business Resource 
Groups empower and unify our people around  
particular experiences and traits to make  
Boeing better.
WHAT ARE BUSINESS  
RESOURCE GROUPS?
Business Resource Groups are volunteer,  
employee-driven groups centered on particular  
experiences or traits, such as ethnicity, race, 
gender identity, sexual orientation, disability  
or veteran status. Each group is led by an 
executive champion, one of our CEO’s direct 
reports, who helps each group succeed.  
Each group is open to everyone, whatever 
their background or identity, and is based  
on four common pillars.
Employees Engaged12,800 +
Chapters152
9
CountriesBY THE NUMBERS
BBEA BEPA
 BEAAA
BNANBAPA
BVETBHEN
BWIL BG2GNINE BUSINESS RESOURCE GROUPS 
 –Boeing Asian and Pacific Association
 –Boeing Black Employees Association
 –Boeing Employees Ability Awareness 
Association
 –Boeing Employees Pride Alliance
 –Boeing Familia
 –Boeing Generation to Generation
 –Boeing Native American Network
 –Boeing Veteran Engagement Team
 –Boeing Women Inspiring Leadership4
Business Resource Groups 
Common Pillars
COMMUNITY  
INVOLVEMENTPROFESSIONAL  
DEVELOPMENTBUSINESS  
ALIGNMENTTALENT  
ENGAGEMENT
PEOPLE  29
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsEnhancing Boeing’s Talent
Boeing is dedicated to growing and  
developing a broad pipeline of aerospace 
talent at all levels. Our professional  
development programs provide education 
and training opportunities for current, former 
and future employees. We want our people  
to think about working at Boeing as a lifetime 
endeavor — full of opportunities to achieve 
their personal and professional goals. We 
understand that by supporting our team 
today, we build a successful tomorrow.
CONTINUOUS DEVELOPMENT
For current employees, our Workforce 
Development System offers continuous 
development, lifelong learning and “upskilling” 
opportunities. This includes the industry-  
leading Learning Together Program, which 
provides generous tuition assistance for 
degree programs, professional certificates 
and individual courses in strategic fields of 
study from more than 300 accredited colleges 
and universities globally. Employees also have 
access to the company’s internal learning 
curriculum, as well as thousands of learning 
assets through our digital campus.
As workforce transitions occur, Boeing 
supports redeployed or departing employees 
with resources and training for the next step 
in their careers.
$17 BILLION INVESTED  
IN PAY IN 2020  
TO REWARD INDIVIDUAL  
PERFORMANCEINSPIRING STEM
To inspire the next generation of aerospace 
talent, Boeing invests in STEM education 
programs to equip K-12 students with math 
and science skills. The company also grants 
funding for university research and helps 
shape degree programs to prepare graduates 
for careers in aerospace. (See Page 52  for 
more information about Boeing’s community 
engagement efforts.) 
COMPETITIVE BENEFITS  
AND COMPENSATION
To attract and retain the best-qualified talent, 
we offer a comprehensive total rewards 
package, including market-competitive 
compensation, health care, paid time  
off, parental leave, retirement benefits,  
tuition assistance, employee skills  
development, leadership development  
and rotation programs.  
Boeing invested over $17 billion in pay in  
2020 to recognize and reward individual 
performance. We foster a diverse, collaborative  
and inclusive environment that empowers our 
employees to do their best. Equal pay for 
equal work is a foundational element of our 
approach. We take action through ongoing pay reviews to ensure that our employees are 
compensated equitably throughout their 
careers — independent of race, gender  
or ethnicity. It’s the right thing to do and 
makes us a better, more inclusive and 
higher-performing company.
Annual incentives are a cornerstone of our 
pay-for-performance culture. Generally, the 
better the company does, the better the 
incentive award opportunities. For most of  
our workforce, individual performance is  
also a factor in determining annual incentive 
payouts. We incorporate our values —  
with a particular focus on safety, quality  
and integrity — into our evaluation of  
individual performance. 
Boeing employees, top left to right: Imelda Wishart, Felipe 
Colon, Jason Pringle, Emily Boucher, Delphine Jackson, 
Jason PakProfessional Development, Education and Learning
PEOPLE  30
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsQuest to Attract, Develop and Retain Top Talent
Boeing is committed to attracting, developing and retaining world-class talent and providing 
them with what they need to thrive both personally and professionally. The company offers a 
comprehensive total rewards package that includes competitive compensation, health care, 
work-life balance support, career development resources and financial security programs.1
COMPENSATION
Boeing invests more than $17 billion annually to compensate and  
reward employees through base pay, incentive opportunities and  
formal recognition programs.
HEALTH CARE AND WELL-BEING
Boeing provides comprehensive health care coverage to support  
both physical and mental well-being, including telehealth and virtual 
care options.
WORK-LIFE BALANCE
Boeing offers generous paid time off as well as family-focused resources 
for child and elder care, adoption assistance and 12 weeks of paid  
parental leave. 
CAREER DEVELOPMENT
Boeing delivers industry-leading tuition assistance, user-centric  
digitally enabled learning journeys, and employee development  
and rotational programs.
FINANCIAL SECURITY
Boeing provides retirement benefits, financial well-being programs and 
insurance coverage to help employees achieve financial security during 
and after their career.  
1.  While some benefit programs are global, certain programs and offerings vary by country, subject to program availability, 
local laws and customs.Shandra Jackson, Industrial Engineer
PEOPLE  31
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsSPOTLIGHT: Scientist Hears the Boeing Code: ‘What Others Dream, We Do’ 
Amani Alonazi is an artificial intelligence 
scientist, working in a visual computing center 
at King Abdullah University of Science and 
Technology (KAUST) in Thuwal, Saudi Arabia.
Alonazi is part of a multidisciplinary Boeing 
Research & Technology team developing 
methods that will detect ground hazards  
for airplanes in airport environments.  
The work involves the convergence of  
high-performance computing and artificial 
intelligence (AI).
“A new level of intelligence will appear,” said 
Alonazi, new to Boeing in 2019. “I met with 
scientists from Seattle, Madrid, Dubai and 
Employee and Labor Relations 
Boeing works with employee representative 
bodies where appropriate. Where employees 
are represented by a legally recognized 
union, we are committed to developing a 
productive relationship with our employees’ 
representatives and engaging in good-faith 
negotiations. As of Dec. 31, 2020, our 
workforce is composed of approximately 
47,000 union-represented employees  
globally. Our principal collective bargaining 
agreements were with the unions listed  
in the table to the right.Working With Representative Bodies
Union Our Employees Represented (%) Status of Agreements With Major Union
International Association of Machinists  
and Aerospace Workers (IAM)20% Two major agreements, one expiring in  
July 2022 and one in September 2024
Society of Professional Engineering  
Employees in Aerospace (SPEEA)10% Two major agreements expiring in October 2026
United Automobile, Aerospace and Agriculture 
Implement Workers of America (UAW)1% One major agreement expiring in October 2022
Australian Manufacturing Workers’ Union  
(AMWU) and Professionals Australia1% One major agreement expiring in June 2021
Unifor (Canada) <1% One major agreement expiring in June 2023Saudi Arabia, and I was very excited to see it 
this diverse. I really wanted to be part of that.”
Alonazi occupies a computing workstation  
at KAUST. She and the Kingdom of Saudi 
Arabia’s first coed institution of higher 
learning have grown up together. Three 
years after it opened, Alonazi became a 
scholarship student there. In 2019, she  
went to work on its campus for Boeing.
Her role is twofold: She is part of a global 
Boeing Research & Technology team 
advancing aerospace, and she contributes  
to university research projects. She has 
access to the university’s supercomputer, Shaheen, which translates to “fastest bird”  
in the Arabian culture. She finds inspiration 
amid a diverse student population that 
includes 102 nationalities and a faculty  
that holds international credentials. 
Boeing hired Alonazi after she completed a 
master’s degree and a doctorate at KAUST 
and obtained a master’s degree from University 
College Dublin, in Ireland, all in computer 
science. Her work involves using AI with 
high-performance computing to detect airport 
ground hazards. She is highly motivated to 
create machine-learning methods.
“I heard the Boeing code: ‘What others 
dream, we do,’” she said. “I’m very excited  
for my journey ahead.” 
Amani Alonazi is an artificial intelligence scientist, working in a visual computing center at King Abdullah University  
of Science and Technology in Thuwal, Saudi Arabia. She is part of a global team focused on using AI and  
high-performance computing to make air travel even safer. 
PEOPLE  32
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsPRODUCTS  
& SERVICES
Safe and Sustainable Aerospace
We innovate for a better tomorrow. We demonstrate an unwavering commitment to safety, 
quality and integrity and instill best practices in all that we do. Boeing designs, builds and 
services the safest form of transportation in history. Innovation advances a safe and sustainable 
future. We pledge to remain focused, transparent, vigilant and humble in our work. Boeing  
and the aviation industry recognize that climate change is an urgent challenge of our time. 
Boeing has a multifaceted strategy that allows our industry to decarbonize aerospace while 
ensuring the connectivity, societal and economic benefits that come from air travel are 
available to people everywhere.
U.N. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALSSustainability Goals
GLOBAL AEROSPACE SAFETY
Drive aerospace safety to prevent accidents, 
injury or loss of life with our Boeing culture 
and actions rooted in safety
INNOVATION AND CLEAN TECHNOLOGY 
Enable the transition to carbon neutral  
aerospace through investments and  
partnerships for fleet efficiency improvements, 
sustainable aviation fuel and future  
platform technologies
The Boeing ecoDemonstrator program takes promising  
technologies out of the lab and tests them in the air  
to make flying safer and more sustainable.
PRODUCTS & SERVICES  33
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsSafety is a fundamental value and our highest 
priority. We take seriously the responsibility 
to ensure those who fly on and service our 
products are safe. 
Everyone at Boeing will never forget the lives 
lost and where the company fell short in the 
tragic 737 MAX accidents. Based on key 
lessons learned, we implemented a series 
of meaningful changes to strengthen our 
safety practices and culture and bring lasting 
improvements to aerospace safety.
These changes include uniting critical safety 
teams and functions under the leadership of 
Mike Delaney, our first-ever Chief Aerospace 
Safety Officer. Aligning these groups into a 
consolidated team helps drive safety across 
every aspect of our operations and helps 
enable end-to-end accountability throughout 
the safety ecosystem.In 2020, Boeing began implementing its  
enterprise Safety Management System,  
or SMS. As an integrating framework for 
managing safety risks throughout the 
product and service life cycle, our SMS will 
incorporate data from employee reporting, 
production, compliance, quality and safety 
processes. This will provide line of sight to 
risks, incidents and identified hazards so  
we can proactively mitigate issues and 
continuously improve safety performance.
Ultimately, the intent of SMS is to bring the 
right data into the right forums with the right 
people to make data-driven, risk-based 
decisions that result in safer products.  
It is a journey of continuous improvement 
informed by existing data — including  
what is publicly available in Boeing’s annual 
Statistical Summary of Commercial Jet 
Airplane Accidents report — and ongoing 
development of increasingly better  
safety analytics.The nature of Boeing’s work is both technical 
and personal. We know that protecting 
people starts with people. Foundational to 
SMS is a positive safety culture in which every 
employee is empowered and encouraged to 
voice concerns, raise issues and share ideas.
Answering Stakeholder  
Expectations for Quality
Boeing is taking comprehensive action  
to continuously improve quality. Boeing 
employees from each of our businesses work 
together to drive improvements that will help 
us build first-time quality into everything we 
do. Across the company, Quality teams are 
implementing standard practices aimed at 
helping us all do our work the right way —  
the first time, every time — while solving 
problems using a structured methodology to 
eliminate root causes and prevent recurrence.  Aerospace Safety and Quality
LEADING IN A RAPIDLY  
CHANGING WORLD
Operating in a rapidly changing environment 
with a growing range of global competitors, 
our people remain our best competitive 
advantage. We invest in them by providing 
needed resources and training. Advanced 
Product Quality Planning (APQP) is a  
structured approach to product and process 
design that spans Product Engineering, 
Production Engineering, Quality, Supply Chain 
and Manufacturing to ensure that quality is 
designed into the product and controlled 
throughout every step — from concept to 
production. The APQP framework ensures 
quality products are delivered on time while 
satisfying cost performance targets, by 
designing quality into the product — even 
before the first prototype is built — instead  
of detecting and addressing problems in the 
finished product.
“ From information gathered through risk  
assessment processes to the issues and  
ideas employees bring forward, our Safety 
Management System relies on data. We’re 
taking an eyes-wide-open approach to how  
we use that data to continuously learn and 
improve — always with our sights set on safety.”
  Mike Delaney, Chief Aerospace Safety Officer and 
Senior Vice President, Global Aerospace Safety
Boeing is building first-time quality into everything we do. 
Pictured here is Christal Nesby and colleagues from P-8 
Final Assembly working to take quality to the finish line. 
PRODUCTS & SERVICES  34
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsCircularity: Sustainability Is Built In
From a customer’s initial request to the 
creation of the aircraft or product to its use 
and eventual retirement, every stage along 
the way is engineered with sustainability in 
mind. This is Boeing’s life-cycle approach: 
design, build, deliver and support each of  
its products and services with the highest 
standards of safety, quality and integrity.  
Here we hone in on a few examples. 
Designing Sustainability Into  
Our Systems 
As a technology and innovation leader, Boeing 
invests in Design for Environment, a systems 
engineering approach to improve the 
environmental performance of our products, 
services and operations. The goal of this 
approach is to reduce the risks and expenses 
associated with a product’s environmental 
footprint and accelerate environmental 
performance gains at all stages in the product 
life cycle, from raw material extraction to 
manufacturing, through in-service operations 
to end of service and beyond. Sustainability  
is taken into account at every stage of a 
product's life cycle, embedding environmental 
considerations in standard design processes, 
from early technology research and  
development to product and production 
system definition and build.SUSTAINABLE
P
LIFE CYCLERODUCTEnd of
ServiceDemand/
Sales
Design/
Technology
Materials/
Feedstocks
Parts Build/TestUseSustainable Product Life Cycle
Environmental assessment calculators allow 
researchers and engineers to efficiently 
quantify the magnitude of environmental 
impacts of their specific technologies  
throughout the technology’s development, 
which informs internal decision-making using 
valid environmental data.
For new aircraft, sustainability analysts 
perform detailed life-cycle assessments (LCA) 
at multiple defined stages of the standard 
product development process. Embedding 
standard environmental assessment steps 
within existing engineering processes  
allows sustainability to be evaluated with a 
methodical and repeatable approach, and 
those impacts are considered not just at the 
design and manufacturing phase but through 
the entire life cycle of the product. Boeing’s 
standard is to conduct a full and thorough 
LCA for any new Boeing Commercial 
Airplanes product, and the company has 
performed LCAs on numerous projects  
and products, including our most recently 
introduced aircraft, the 777X, 737 MAX and 
787 Dreamliner. We use simplified LCAs to 
evaluate individual materials or technologies. 
The company uses Sphera’s GaBi LCA 
software. LCA is the analysis of the  
environmental benefits and burdens  
associated with an existing or proposed 
product, process or facility throughout the  
life cycle of the entity being analyzed. 
“ We ensure sustainability is built in during 
every step of our products’ life cycles — 
whether we’re finding solutions to reduce 
our carbon footprint, keep our employees 
and air travelers safe, source responsibly  
or to serve our communities.”   
  Tia Benson Tolle, Director, Advanced Materials 
and Sustainability, Product Development,  
Boeing Commercial Airplanes 
PRODUCTS & SERVICES  35
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsSPOTLIGHT: T-7A Red Hawk
Boeing Trainer Leads the Way in  
Digital Engineering
Some solutions affect many aspects of  
the product life cycle. There is a particularly 
prevalent intersection between digital  
engineering and sustainability. The U.S. Air 
Force designated the T-7A Red Hawk 
advanced trainer as the first in its digital 
“eSeries” of aircraft. Embracing model-based 
engineering and 3D design tools, the T-7A  
Red Hawk achieved a 75% increase in 
first-time engineering quality and an 80% 
reduction in assembly hours. With digital 
engineering, more testing is done in the 
simulator. Dan Draeger, Boeing Test & 
Evaluation chief tactical aircraft test pilot,  
still remembers the T-7A Red Hawk’s first  
flight and how different it was from other  
development stories on other aircraft he’s flown. 
“We had already flown the jet in the simulator 
using the exact same digital software many 
times rehearsing for this flight. So when it 
comes to the real thing, we know what  
to expect — the jet flew exactly as it was 
supposed to, no surprises,” said Draeger. 80% REDUCTION IN  
ASSEMBLY HOURS FOR THE 
T-7A RED HAWK TRAINER  
USING MODEL-BASED  
ENGINEERINGBUILD/TEST 
During the manufacturing process, Boeing 
works to recycle excess carbon-fiber material 
from commercial airplane assembly. This 
recycling initiative has the potential to divert 
up to 1 million pounds (454,000 kilograms)  
of waste from landfills each year and can be 
utilized by our partners and potentially by 
non-aerospace generators.
Launched in 2010, the Boeing  
ecoDemonstrator program accelerates 
innovation by taking promising technologies 
out of the lab and testing them in the air.  
(See Page 38  for more information on  
the ecoDemonstrator.) 
USE
After airline customers take delivery of Boeing 
airplanes, the company offers data analytics 
services to help them optimize flight planning, 
fuel efficiency and overall fleet operations. These services — including our Fuel Dashboard 
and FliteDeck Advisor applications — enhance 
airplane utilization, on-time operations and 
airspace usage, driving significant savings 
across fleets. 
END OF SERVICE 
Boeing is contributing to reducing waste  
by reusing and recertifying airplane parts. 
Boeing recertifies parts ensuring quality.  
Parts are acquired through the dismantling of 
out-of-service planes. Boeing has harvested 
materials from retired 777, 767 and  
737 airplanes, as well as non-Boeing-  
manufactured aircraft. Boeing is a founding 
member of the Aircraft Fleet Recycling 
Association, the leading global organization  
for developing and promoting the safe  
and sustainable management of circularity  
of components and aircraft in the  
aviation sector. 
Dismantling equipment for recycling. 
 FliteDeck Pro Advisor application.
PRODUCTS & SERVICES  36
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities Operationstakeoff and landing aircraft and targeting 
certification in the latter half of this decade. 
Boeing continues to research and invest in 
electrification technologies to accelerate them 
to market. 
HYDROGEN-POWERED AIRCRAFT
Incorporating hydrogen as a fuel in a safe and 
practical way will take time and considerable 
investment. The aviation Industry, working 
with research institutions and the energy 
sector, needs to develop the propulsion 
technology, integrated fuel system and 
supporting infrastructure for production, 
storage, handling and delivery of green 
hydrogen. If these technological and 
commercial challenges can be overcome to 
produce and fly on green hydrogen, those 
aircraft have the potential to fly without 
in-flight carbon emissions.
“ Aviation flew 4.5 billion people and nearly 
$7 trillion in goods in 2019. We’re advancing 
multiple efforts now to address the urgent 
challenge of climate change so the world can 
continue to enjoy bringing people, cultures 
and trade together.” 
   Sheila Remes, Vice President,  
Environmental Sustainability
Working to Decarbonize Aviation
Our company and our industry recognize that 
decreasing carbon emissions is an urgent 
challenge of our time, and we are united in 
our commitment to decarbonize aviation so 
billions of passengers can continue to fly 
every year to connect with friends and family, 
discover new places and cultures, engage in 
commerce and care for those in need. 
Achieving this objective requires a portfolio  
of solutions and partnerships that allows our 
industry sector to decarbonize. We are focused 
on four key areas: fleet renewal, network 
operational efficiency, renewable energy 
transition and advanced technology. Boeing 
Chief Sustainability Officer Chris Raymond 
provides more details on our approach on 
Pages 7–10 . Renewable energy in particular 
plays a critical role and can include sustainable 
aviation fuels, electric-powered battery  
propulsion and green hydrogen. Boeing is 
working to advance the development of all 
three of them.SUSTAINABLE AVIATION FUELS
Boeing has pioneered the use of sustainable 
aviation fuels, which offer the most immedi -
ate and significant potential to decarbonize 
commercial and military aviation over the next 
30 years. The company has partnered with 
airlines, industry, government and research 
institutions to conduct test flights, gain 
approval for commercial use, create regional 
supplies and reduce cost. In 2021, Boeing 
committed that its commercial airplanes will 
be capable of and certified to fly on 100% 
sustainable aviation fuels by 2030. 
ELECTRIC-POWERED AIRCRAFT
Electric airplanes offer another opportunity 
to reduce emissions when their batteries are 
charged with clean and renewable sources. 
Boeing’s work in this space includes Wisk, an 
urban mobility joint venture with partner Kitty 
Hawk. Wisk is developing electric vertical 
Boeing joint venture Wisk, flight-testing Cora electric air taxi.   See details from Chief Sustainability  
Officer Chris Raymond on how Boeing  
is reimagining aerospace on Page 7 .Aviation Climate Strategy
Boeing’s commitment to safer and sustainable 
air travel supports aviation’s global climate 
strategy — starting with carbon neutral growth 
from 2020 onward and reducing emissions  
to half of what they were in 2005 by 2050. 
Each year, we update our industry forecast  
in the Commercial Market Outlook (CMO)  
to factor the effects of current business  
conditions and developments into our  
analysis of the long-term industry drivers, 
including climate change related effects,  
and impacts to air travel.
Updating and Replacing Fleets to 
Reduce Fuel Use and Emissions
Airlines have invested more than $1 trillion 
since 2009 on over 12,000 new airplanes. 
Boeing’s latest generation reduces fuel use 
and emissions by 15%-25%. Improvements 
come from lighter-weight materials, advanced 
engine development and innovations such as 
natural laminar flow that reduces drag. Each 
airplane also improves upon reliability and 
maintenance requirements, enabling greater 
utilization and overall resource productivity.Innovation and Clean Technology
PRODUCTS & SERVICES  37
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsBoeing Uses a Flying Laboratory to  
Test Industry-Changing Technologies 
Launched in 2010, Boeing’s ecoDemonstrator 
program accelerates innovation by taking 
promising technologies out of the lab and 
testing them in the air to solve real-world 
challenges for airlines, passengers and  
the environment.
The ecoDemonstrator is a flying test bed to 
evaluate new features and technologies that 
can help improve safety, increase efficiency, 
enhance the passenger experience and 
minimize environmental impact. SPOTLIGHT: ecoDemonstrator 
Collaboration with industry partners is a key 
component of the ecoDemonstrator program. 
Etihad Airways served as Boeing’s partner for 
the 2020 program, which used one of the 
airline’s new 787-10 Dreamliners to test various 
technologies. See the graphic below for key 
testing programs that were included in 2020.
In addition to using sustainable aviation fuels 
and testing emissions-reduction technologies, 
Boeing purchased verified offsets to cover  
a portion of ecoDemonstrator emissions  
in 2020.   
KEY TEST PROGRAMS IN 2020
Less airframe noise:  Performed flight  
tests with more than 200 microphones  
attached to the airplane and nearly 1,000  
on the ground to improve noise prediction 
capabilities, validate ways to reduce noise 
and inform future quiet aircraft designsQuieter landing gear: Tested nose and main 
landing gear modified by Safran Landing 
Systems to reduce noise 
Cabin sanitation technology: Tested  
a handheld ultraviolet light wand and  
antimicrobial coating to help sanitize airplane 
cabins and flight decksEn route airspace efficiency: Conducted 
two test flights using digital communications 
that simultaneously connected pilots, air traffic 
controllers and airline operations centers  
to enhance safety, optimize routing and 
reduce emissionsSustainable aviation fuel:  Used a blend of 
up to 50% sustainable aviation fuel on every 
ecoDemonstrator flight 
Efficient arrival:  Tested a timed-arrival 
management tool as part of an airspace  
efficiency project to further reduce emissions
PRODUCTS & SERVICES  38
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsAdvancing Innovation
Boeing continues to advance aerospace 
technology to address the most pressing 
needs of our customers. We encourage our 
employees to pioneer new ways of thinking 
and challenge each of our team members  
to bring forward their ideas. 
“ Digital is at the heart of everything we 
do in service to our commercial and 
government customers. Our digital 
solutions combine data analysis and 
engineering know-how to strengthen 
operational efficiency for customers, 
operators, technicians and maintainers 
around the world and throughout our 
products’ life cycle.”   
   Ted Colbert, President and CEO,  
Boeing Global Services 6,275
57,178PatentsIn 2020 Boeing  
Was Granted
A Total ofPATENTS BY THE NUMBERS 
Patents  
(in the past 70 years)Data Drives Sustainability
The pursuit of digital innovation underpins 
everything we do. Our data scientists can 
spot patterns in performance data that enable 
our defense customers to operate more 
efficiently with a smaller carbon footprint. For 
C-17 operators, Boeing developed systems 
that can help define the optimal amount of 
fuel to carry, greatly minimizing wasteful fuel 
burn for any given mission.
Boeing has also designed upgraded  
components that help make the C-17 more 
efficient, saving thousands of pounds of fuel 
each year. Boeing data scientists mine data 
and identify worn components that burn an 
excessive amount of fuel, even when they are 
not driving a fault message, helping ensure  
our customers are operating in the most 
effective manner and with a strong focus  
on environmental stewardship.
Royal Australian Air Force Flight Lieutenant Sam Stephens tests Boeing’s augmented training operations and maintenance 
solution, which combines mixed reality with real-time, subject matter expert support.
PRODUCTS & SERVICES  39
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsOPERATIONS
Responsible and Resilient Operations
It’s not just what we do — it’s also how we do it. We operate sustainably and engage  
transparently on behalf of our customers and stakeholders. At Boeing, we’re working  
to drive sustainability through all aspects of our business and striving for operations that  
lead to a better tomorrow. Across our manufacturing sites, offices and supply chain, we  
focus on environmental performance, responsible business practices, ethical conduct  
and information protection.
Sustainability Goal
SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS 
Maintain a net-zero future for Boeing  
operations through conservation and  
renewable energy; partner with the supply  
chain for responsible business practicesU.N. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
Left to right: Boeing employees Rachel Jones, Megan 
Thomas and Miles Parker work on the first F-15EX  
advanced fighter jet for the U.S. Air Force in St. Louis.
OPERATIONS  40
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsClimate change is among the topics included 
in our enterprise risk management. Climate 
risks and opportunities inform our strategy,  
as evidenced by our commitments and  
actions in products and operations. Given  
the strength of our strategy, investments and 
abatement practices, we have not determined 
climate change to be financially material.  
Due to this, we have not calculated the 
fiscal implications or costs in this report. 
More information — including identification 
of risks and opportunities and discussion 
of the mechanisms Boeing uses to manage 
risks and realize opportunities — is included 
in our annual CDP report . Information about 
oversight, assessment and management of 
climate-related risks and opportunities  
is provided on Page 21  of this report.
To achieve our goals related to the climate and 
greenhouse gases (GHG), we actively monitor 
emissions, fuel use and energy efficiency. 
We have set short- and long-term targets 
for performance in each of these areas. As 
part of Boeing’s robust business continuity 
program, we also monitor the length and 
severity of business interruptions. The scope 
of monitoring includes damaging weather, 
natural disasters, pandemics and public health 
crises. It helps us understand how to increase 
resiliency in light of a changing climate.Net-Zero at Worksites
Boeing achieved net-zero carbon emissions 
at manufacturing and worksites and  
in business travel in 2020 by expanding  
conservation and renewable energy use, 
while securing responsible offsets for the 
remaining greenhouse gas emissions. 
Since 2008, Boeing has voluntarily and  
transparently reported greenhouse gas  
emissions from our operations in annual  
CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) 
disclosures. In 2020, CDP awarded Boeing  
a leadership-level grade of A-. 
Boeing’s greenhouse gas reduction strategy  
is managed within the Global Enterprise 
Sustainability organization. The management 
team tracks performance, procures energy, 
and initiates energy and emissions reduction  
projects across the company. This organization 
is well positioned to set strategic goals for 
greenhouse gas emissions reduction and 
energy conservation and to play an active  
role in achieving those goals.
Greenhouse gas emissions from operations 
are monitored on a monthly basis through the 
use of utility metering. The emissions factors 
for these energy sources are validated at least 
annually and updated when appropriate  
under the World Resources Institute GHG 
Protocol. The energy source data and 
emissions factors are audited as part of the 
third-party verification of the company’s  
annual CDP disclosure, which contains a 
wealth of information about our emissions, 
reduction efforts and governance.
Boeing achieved net-zero emissions at manufacturing and worksites in 2020 by expanding conservation and renewable 
energy use, while securing responsible offsets for the remaining greenhouse gas emissions. This is the Wild Horse facility 
in Washington that powers facilities in the state.Addressing Climate Change
“ The best way for us to earn continued 
trust is by working every day to put 
safety, quality and integrity first in  
everything we do, honoring our  
commitments one airplane, one  
pilot and one customer at a time.” 
    Stan Deal, President and CEO,  
Boeing Commercial Airplanes
OPERATIONS  41
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsBoeing invests in sustainable operations  
to drive the highest levels of industrial  
performance at our manufacturing sites. 
As we share our goals for 2030, our 2025 
targets will act as a milestone to guide our 
actions and progress along the way. All  
of our 2025 goals are absolute targets  
and are not indexed to production levels  
or growth. Our progress on these 2025  
goals is shown in the table and reflects how 
our performance was affected by changes 
associated with occupancy and operations 
during COVID-19 in 2020. 
Boeing established 2030 environmental 
performance goals by reviewing scientific 
recommendations, benchmarking global  
sustainability leaders, and evaluating our  
own progress and potential. The aspirational 
2030 goals encompass more of our company 
and reach further than ever before.
The companywide goals shown are  
converted to site-level goals annually. Site 
performance is assessed throughout the year 
to monitor challenges and opportunities to 
share best practices. In 2020, we continued 
to invest in the conservation projects that 
advance our operational environmental goals. Operations Environmental Goals and Progress1
Performance Area 2025 Goals Versus 2017 Progress Toward 2025 Goals22030 Goals
Greenhouse 
Gas  
EmissionsReduce emissions by 25%  Net-zero3 (absolute reduction  
of 14%)• Net-zero emissions
• 55% GHG reduction from 2017 
• 100% renewable electricity 
EnergyReduce energy consumption  
by 10% 12% reduction 10% energy-intensity reduction from 2025  
WaterReduce water withdrawal  
by 20% 23% reduction 5% reduction from 2025
WasteReduce solid waste to landfill  
by 20% and hazardous waste  
by 5%• 44% reduction in solid waste
• 34% reduction in hazardous 
waste• 30% reduction in waste produced from 2025
• Over 90% diversion from landfill or incineration
• Zero waste where applicable at major sites
• 5% hazardous waste reduction from 2025Circularity also informs our approach.  
Boeing embraces circular principles,  
including monitoring waste in every area  
of the environment, seeking employee ideas  
on waste reduction, and innovating ways to 
eliminate or reuse waste. With new thinking, 
we can keep potential waste from entering  
the value stream or turn waste into viable 
products that Boeing or other businesses  
can use.Reducing Greenhouse  
Gas Emissions
Boeing strives to reduce operational  
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, both 
during times of growth and during times 
of challenge. In 2020, efficiency projects 
reduced GHG by 5,000 metric tons.The company’s goal to reduce GHG  
emissions 25% by 2025 is intended to  
drive emissions down over time, modeled 
after the Science Based Targets initiative 
methodology in effect when the goal was 
established in 2017.Conserving Resources
1.  2025 goals were set based on data from Core Metric Sites, which represent the majority (70%) of Boeing’s operations. 
2.  Operational goals shown are absolute targets and not indexed to production levels or growth. 2020 performance was affected by changes associated with occupancy and  
operations during COVID-19. The targets were established against a 2017 baseline, and the 2025 goals will act as a milestone to guide actions and progress to the 2030 goals.
3. The net-zero achievement covered Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions for all sites within the company’s operational control as well as Scope 3 – Business Travel.
OPERATIONS  42
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsIn 2020, renewable energy accounted for 
9% of Boeing’s total energy and 19% of total 
electricity. Approximately 37% of total energy 
came from the power grid. Conservation  
and efficiency projects completed in 2020 
resulted in 65,000 metric million British  
thermal units (69 terajoules) of energy  
savings. (See energy use details on  
Page 72  in the Appendix.)
Water: A Vital Resource
Boeing sets rigorous water use reduction 
targets at our manufacturing sites to preserve 
this natural resource for the environment and 
our communities.
Boeing’s water is sourced from local public 
utilities and company generation. This sourced 
water supports manufacturing, sanitation, 
drinking water, cooling and irrigation across 
the company. The majority of our water is  
from public water supply systems, and most 
measurement of water consumption is  
from water system revenue-grade meters.  
(See water withdrawal data on Page 72  
in the Appendix.)  
Water that is used within our facilities  
is discharged to public sanitary sewer 
systems. In some cases, Boeing pre-treats 
wastewater before discharging it to public 
sanitary sewer systems, in compliance with 
regulatory requirements. Boeing does not 
set voluntary effluent discharge standards 
beyond those set by regulations.“ Conservation behaviors can have a 
ripple effect from one employee to 
another. That’s why it’s so important  
to take visible actions to ‘walk the 
conservation talk’ every single day.  
By modeling sustainable behaviors, 
engaged employees are influencing 
efficient resource use.”
  Crystal Frost, Conservation and  
Sustainable Behaviors Manager,  
Global Enterprise Sustainability
In addition to setting rigorous water use reduction targets within our facilities, Boeing is also dedicated to keeping  
community waterways healthy. The Duwamish Waterway shoreline restoration in Seattle has improved local ecosystems.
Working to Conserve Water
Boeing implements efficiencies, best practices 
and new technologies to reduce water use 
and identifies alternatives for water-intensive 
processes. We monitor irregularities that may 
require action and created a Conservation 
Best Practice program to minimize on-site 
water use. Boeing uses many of the water 
management techniques endorsed by the 
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency in  
this program.  
Boeing regularly reviews industry best  
practices and uses the International  
Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001 
standard to target continuous improvement 
opportunities, enhance environmental  
performance, meet compliance obligations 
and achieve reduction goals.
Boeing’s environmental strategy is guided  
by a comprehensive review and assessment 
of the most significant environmental  
challenges and risks facing the company.  
Our environmental priorities, including  
water management, are set with internal  
and external stakeholders. The analysis 
includes direct input and perspectives from 
diverse stakeholders, including customers, 
nongovernmental organizations and 
company leadership. This information  
helps Boeing identify and update our 
understanding of current and emerging 
sustainability issues critical to the company 
and our stakeholders. It also informs our 
next-generation environmental strategy  
and targets. Conserving Resources (continued)
OPERATIONS  43
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsInvestment Recovery  
and Reclamation Teams
Boeing has dedicated internal teams to 
prevent waste from going to the landfill. 
Our reclamation team works to capture and 
collect materials across the company, while 
our investment recovery team repurposes 
materials, facilitates donations and sells scrap 
materials. In 2020, Boeing sent 16 million  
kilograms (36 million pounds) of scrap  
metal — from machining and milling, excess 
wires, and spent tools and equipment — to 
reclamation for future use in other products. 
Packaging Team
Our packaging team assesses opportunities 
to return or reuse packaging for parts and 
materials. Packaging engineers have  
developed standards for reusing containers 
with our suppliers. Our employees also  
develop processes to reuse and repurpose 
incoming packing materials, helping to  
reduce waste and cost.
Osmin Rodriguez Romero, Quality Assurance, and  
Hope Gonzalez, Environment, Health & Safety, work to 
increase recycling volumes at Boeing South Carolina.Reducing Waste Across Operations
Boeing is making strides to protect the land, 
water and air in our communities by reducing 
waste from worksites and our supply chain. 
Waste streams are as complex as our  
facilities, which range from office space to 
part fabrication to assembly of aircraft and 
space vehicles. 
Solid waste includes material that has been 
discarded or abandoned or that is no longer 
useful or usable and has been designated for 
removal. Items that are reused or reclaimed 
are excluded from solid waste. Boeing  
generates nonhazardous solid waste  
through a number of activities:
 –Manufacturing, production and design  
of products
 –Packaging from materials received  
at facilities
 –On-site facility maintenance activities
 –Employee-generated office waste
 –Food-related waste (cafeterias, employee 
lunches and vended products)
 –Construction projects 
Boeing generates hazardous waste primarily 
from a variety of research, manufacturing and 
facilities maintenance processes. Hazardous 
waste excludes materials that can be reused 
(such as used oil or cloth wipes) and common 
waste streams, known as universal waste. 
Because of the variability of waste streams, 
we use a variety of methods to manage  
the waste.Avoiding Hazardous Waste
Hazardous waste may be recycled  
upstream or downstream, as on-site or  
off-site reclamation and avoided generation 
through processes that extend useful life  
of consumable chemicals to avoid  
hazardous waste.  
 –Upstream activities prevent or reduce the 
amount of hazardous waste generated 
through extending system life through 
contaminant removal. 
 –Downstream activities occur after  
hazardous waste has been generated  
from site operations. Boeing implements 
several recycling and recovery activities  
to reduce the need for new chemicals.Generally, third-party vendors handle  
transport and disposal of Boeing waste.  
The company contracts with vendors who 
provide waste-to-landfill, waste-to-energy, 
recycling and composting services. Vendors 
provide disposal data, and in the absence  
of weight-based data, Boeing calculates 
weight using a parametric approach. (See  
an overview of the waste process flow on 
the following page and waste generation and 
disposal data on Page 73  in the Appendix.)
Reducing Waste
OPERATIONS  44
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsWaste Process Flow
Manufacture or mining of 
materials, minerals, 
components and partsBoeing activities, 
products and servicesSupplier products
*Data for commercial airplanesBoeing products and services
Use of aerospace 
products and servicesUPSTREAM IN VALUE CHAIN BOEING OPERATIONS DOWNSTREAM IN VALUE CHAIN
Upstream waste reduction practices Boeing waste reduction practices Downstream waste reduction practices
Upstream Waste Operational Waste Downstream Waste 
DisposalSecondary and tertiary 
downstream wasteDiverted 
from 
disposalUpcycled to 
aerospace 
and non-
aerospace 
productsDisposal 
(~10%)*Reuse and 
recycling 
(~90%)*
On-site 
waste 
reductionOffsite programs
• Donations
• Surplus sales
• Recycling and 
reclamation
• Composting
• Disposal to land/f_ill
• Incineration with or 
without energy recoveryCircularity 
and reuse
OPERATIONS  45
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsKatie Moxley’s team of environmental experts uses innovative 
approaches in cleanup efforts to ensure the health of people 
and the environment.
“ The best solutions are found when our stakeholders 
work together. As a mother, I care about the  
environment and the legacy we leave for our  
children and their children.”
   Katie Moxley, Manager, Environmental Remediation,  
Global Policy and Chemical Compliance
Strong Commitment  
to Environmental Compliance
Boeing maintains a commitment to  
regulatory compliance as a fundamental 
element of our environmental policy . When 
the rare noncompliance incident is identified, 
Boeing takes the issue seriously by applying 
root cause analysis, implementing corrective 
actions and sharing process improvements 
as we work to continually improve our  
commitment to environmental excellence.
Boeing had no reportable spills in 2020.  
The company paid one environmental penalty 
in excess of $10,000, in connection with 
alleged noncompliance with technical waste 
management requirements at the Cecil Field 
facility in Jacksonville, Florida. There was 
no allegation of any waste release to the 
environment. The matter was resolved after 
Boeing submitted evidence of completed 
corrective actions and paid a $17,410 penalty.
Biodiversity Boosts Ecosystems
Boeing has thousands of acres of habitats 
across five locations that are being protected 
or undergoing restoration. Each habitat is 
actively managed and maintained by site  
personnel, outside nonprofit organizations  
or contract biologists. For some locations, 
additional agreements and monitoring are 
in place to ensure all legal, contractual and 
certification requirements are met.Each habitat is certified by the Wildlife Habitat 
Council (WHC), with three certified at the Gold 
level. The WHC’s certification program is the 
only voluntary sustainability standard designed 
for broad-based biodiversity enhancement 
and conservation education activities on  
corporate landholdings. Recertification is 
required every two years. 
WHC-Certified Habitats
Location Size
Boeing Plant 2  
in Seattle, WA5 acres  
of marine habitat
Boeing South  
Carolina Keystone/
Fairlawn Project  
in North Charleston, 
SC3,923 acres,  
including 2,025  
acres of wetland
Emery Landfill  
in Wichita, KS56.5 acres, including  
35 acres of grassland
Pollinator Prairie  
in Olathe, KS1.5 acres of  
pollinator gardens
Santa Susana in 
Canoga Park, CA2,400 acres  
of diverse habitats
Boeing partners with a number of  
nongovernmental and governmental  
organizations and third parties that vary  
by location, depending on project needs. SPOTLIGHT 
“ Sustainability is an essential part of all our jobs.  
We see this as we volunteer in our communities, 
determine materials for new designs, and recognize 
how to efficiently use energy and water to build and 
service airplanes.”
   Christin Datz, 2020 Environmental Champion, and Product 
Development Engineer, Boeing Commercial Airplanes
Environmental Compliance and Biodiversity
OPERATIONS  46
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsIn 2020, Boeing spent nearly $48 billion  
with approximately 12,000 suppliers from  
58 countries and all 50 U.S. states. We apply  
a core set of principles to our supply chain 
that encourages collaborative engagement  
and delivers value to our customers. These 
principles build on successes, feedback  
and lessons learned throughout the supply 
chain and set the stage for achieving first-
time quality, on-time delivery and improved 
cost performance. They are rooted in  
our values.
SPOTLIGHT: Partnering With Suppliers on Sustainability  
Responsible Supply Chain
Ngozi Oyewole, owner of Noxie Limited, a WEConnect International certified women-owned business, displays her company’s personal protective equipment products in Nigeria.Women-Owned Businesses Help Boeing and Global Customers Meet Market Demand
Boeing is a founding member of WEConnect 
International, a nonprofit organization that 
identifies, educates, registers and certifies 
global women’s business enterprises. 
Businesses must be at least 51% women- 
owned, as well as managed or controlled  
by one or more women, to be part of 
WEConnect. After the businesses certify  that they meet these high standards,  
they are connected with multinational 
corporate buyers.
This partnership is an excellent way  
for Boeing to find potential suppliers in 
international markets where we have sites, 
offset agreements and strategic campaigns. Ultimately, it helps Boeing increase its global 
supply base in a way that addresses local 
economic impact needs and supports 
certified women-owned businesses.SAFETY AND 
QUALITY 
are paramount
Safety is never 
compromised.
We collaboratively 
design quality into 
 all products and 
services, with a goal 
 of perfect products 
 at every stage of the 
production system.Relationships are 
based on integrity; 
DIVERSITY  
 IS VALUED
Relationships are 
beneficial, and we 
respect diverse 
thinking.
We commit time  
and resources  
to nature and a 
 healthy relationship.
We build trust by 
 doing what we say 
we’re going to do.TRANSPARENT 
communication
Communication is 
based on honesty 
 and integrity.
The digital thread 
 links our businesses 
and ensures our 
 shared success.
We jointly advocate 
 for the success and 
sustainability of the 
supply chain.DELIVERY  
PERFORMANCE 
is fundamental
Perfect parts and  
services are delivered 
 on time, every time.
Sufficient capacity is 
maintained to meet  
total demand.
Demand forecasts are 
shared as quickly as 
possible to enable  
delivery success.Sustainable,  
continuous 
VALUE  
CREATION
We meet the demand  
from our customers  
for continuous  
value creation.
Rewards are balanced  
with risks and  
investments  across  
the economic life cycle.
We used objectively 
derived optimal  
cost data to find  
opportunities for  
cost reduction.Supply Chain Principles
OPERATIONS  47
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities Operations1.  Total small, diverse supplier count represents 2020 data 
and is inclusive of women-owned, minority-owned and 
veteran-owned businesses, and some suppliers may fall 
into more than one subcategory.
Supply Chain in Australia  
Embraces Indigenous Partners
In 2020, Boeing Defence Australia achieved 
$10 million in accumulated Indigenous  
supply chain spend since 2012 as part  
of its growing relationship with Supply  
Nation, which connects companies with 
Indigenous suppliers like the Indigenous 
Defence & Infrastructure Consortium (iDiC). 
Boeing Defence Australia leaders say the 
significant growth is the result of Boeing’s 
growing relationship with iDiC as well as  
the company’s commitment to working  
with Indigenous-owned businesses and 
maximizing Australian industry content  
in its supply chain.SPOTLIGHT
“ Boeing introduced a set of principles to meet supplier 
requests for greater transparency and more frequent,  
open and candid communication. The principles also 
reflect our ongoing commitment to strong business  
fundamentals of safety, first-time quality, continuous 
improvement, on-time delivery, affordability and 
operational excellence.”
  William A. Ampofo II, Vice President, Supply Chain,  
Boeing Global Services, and Chair, Enterprise Supply  
Chain Operations Council
Boeing also works to drive diversity,  
sustainability and ethical business conduct 
throughout its supply chain.
Diversity:  We are committed to a diverse  
and inclusive supply chain to promote  
economic growth across communities. In 
2020, Boeing spent over $5 billion with  
small, diverse suppliers and continues to  
seek partnership opportunities.
Sustainability:  In 2020, Boeing engaged with 
approximately 2,500 potential new suppliers 
to inspire, promote and support sustainability 
throughout our supply chain. Throughout the 
next year, the company will work to expand 
environmental and social standards within our 
supply chain. We will continue to do business 
in a sustainable manner and create positive 
change in our global footprint. 
Ethical Supply Chain Business Conduct: 
Boeing is committed to the highest standards  
of ethical business conduct. Our contractual 
relationships with third-party suppliers,  
including our consultants and contract labor, 
are designed to enforce our expectations for 
lawful, ethical and fair business practices. 
Boeing supply chain organizations are  
responsible for evaluating and establishing  
all new supplier relationships as well as  
providing oversight of the company’s supplier 
base. We annually assess enterprise risks  
and develop a risk-based audit plan to  
support achievement of business and  
compliance objectives.
Pictured is Scott Carpendale, Vice President and  
Managing Director, Boeing Defence Australia (left),  
and Adam Goodes, CEO of iDiC.
$5B+~5,600
Spent With Small, 
Diverse SuppliersTotal Small, Diverse Suppliers1
~850  
Women  
Owned~600  
Minority  
Owned~500  
Veteran  
Owned
OPERATIONS  48
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsBoeing prioritizes security practices and 
product security engineering to protect 
networks, systems and information from 
cyberthreats and to enable authorized use.  
Boeing uses privacy controls to enable 
transparent, responsible and accountable 
processing of personal information.
Cybersecurity Measures
We recognize the fast-changing nature of 
threats to cybersecurity. We employ a risk- 
based approach and have implemented 
mitigations off the network across our  
supply chain; with our partners and staff;  
and throughout our infrastructure, products 
and services. Boeing also works to ensure 
that our products are designed to anticipate,  
withstand, recover and adapt to cyberattacks.Information Security  
and Risk-Based Controls
We continuously strive to meet or exceed  
the industry’s information cybersecurity best 
practices and implement risk-based controls 
to protect our clients’ and our company’s  
information and information systems. We 
have structured our formal cybersecurity 
program around the National Institute  
of Standards and Technology (NIST)  
Cybersecurity Framework, contractual 
requirements and other global standards.  
We leverage industry and government 
associations, third-party benchmarking,  
audits and threat intelligence feeds to ensure 
the effectiveness of our functions and 
proactively allocate our resources. Although 
there is no perfect solution to present and 
future threats, our approach demonstrates 
continued progress to protect our company 
assets, brand and reputation. Regardless of 
the advancements, we seek out opportunities 
to proactively discover and treat IT security 
risks every day.Protecting Privacy and Security
Boeing’s Global Privacy Office enables  
management of and accountability for  
the privacy and security risks associated  
with the collection, use, protection,  
retention, disclosure and disposal of  
personal information. Boeing has been 
entrusted with protecting the personally 
identifiable information of many stakeholders, 
including current and former employees, 
partners, customers, job applicants and 
others worldwide. 
Boeing’s program is built upon a foundation 
of privacy principles. The company has 
mapped its requirements to the Generally 
Accepted Privacy Principles, U.S. Privacy 
Management Framework and the NIST 
Privacy Management Framework, as well as 
the principles found in the EU General Data 
Protection Regulation and the Asia-Pacific 
Economic Cooperation principles. 
The pillars of Boeing’s program include  
establishing a robust and comprehensive  
set of internal controls covering people, 
processes and technology. The program also 
encompasses oversight and engagement, 
including monitoring, incident management, 
engagement, and advocacy with regulators  
and legislatures. The company enhances its 
program with the implementation of risk and 
program management best practices.Data Privacy and Information Security
“ The safety of our products, services  
and workplace requires that we create 
and maintain a safe digital environment. 
That’s why we work across our company, 
with customers, suppliers and employees, 
and with other partners to promote 
cybersafety, data privacy and  
cyber resilience.”
  Susan Doniz, Chief Information Officer and 
Senior Vice President, Information Technology 
& Data Analytics
OPERATIONS  49
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsCOMMUNITIES
Purposeful Partnerships With Communities
Our communities matter to us. We focus on global partnerships and programs that inspire our 
future through education, honor our heroes and strengthen our homes. Through purposeful 
investments, employee engagement and advocacy efforts, Boeing seeks to create value and 
help build better communities worldwide. Our charitable programs drive positive, lasting 
change in the communities where our employees and their families live and work, anchored  
by local employee engagement activities.
Boeing volunteers in St. Louis shared FUTURE U kits with the  
supplies students needed to complete STEM experiments  
while they were homebound during the pandemic.U.N. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALSSustainability Goal
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
Build better, more equitable communities 
through corporate investments, employee 
engagement programs and advocacy efforts
COMMUNITIES  50
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsCommunity Engagement by the Numbers
267
grants targeting STEM and 
workforce development  
programs in 2020$4.2M
donated to COVID-19 relief 
around the world in 2020  5M +
students reached through  
Boeing’s hands-on STEM 
learning program FUTURE U  
13,000 +
active partnerships with  
community-based  
organizations$36M
contributed to charitable 
causes by Boeing employees 
in 2020
31
unique grants supporting  
environmental programs  
in 2020$15.6M
contributed to nonprofits  
supporting racial equity  
and social justice in 2020  $2B
approximately in Boeing 
community investments  
over the last 10 years
$234M +
community investments  
in 2020  
$100M +
in charitable grants to  
590 organizations in  
51 countries — including  
$14.2 million in support  
of veterans programs
“ This year has been a challenging one for businesses 
and communities around the world, but Boeing 
remains committed to supporting the places we  
call home. Even during challenging times, it’s  
important that we continue to foster relationships  
in our community and invest in programs that  
move society forward. It is through our community 
partnerships that we will drive advances in racial 
equity, stop the spread of COVID-19, inspire the  
next generation of aerospace professionals, and  
create opportunities for veterans and their families.”
   Jennifer Lowe, Vice President, National Strategy  
& Engagement, Government Operations 
   See the latest Boeing Global Engagement 
Portfolio  for more information.
COMMUNITIES  51
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsOur Future:  
Tomorrow’s Innovators
Boeing is committed to supporting students 
of all backgrounds in achieving their full  
potential. The company is engaged in  
partnerships with community organizations  
to advance racial equity, promote academic 
success and build pathways to economic 
stability. In 2020, Boeing provided funding  
for 267 charitable organizations working  
to advance STEM and workforce develop -
ment programs. Though Boeing’s signature 
Students work through a FUTURE U STEM design challenge. Through a partnership with Discovery Education, Boeing 
developed FUTURE U as an education tool for employees and educators to share their passion for aerospace with  
the next generation. FUTURE U offers free, open-access lessons, videos and interactive experiences for students.  
FUTURE U has reached more than 5 million students since its launch in 2019.Our Heroes:  
Veterans and Their Families
Boeing’s goal is to build better lives for  
transitioning military service members,  
veterans and their families. We provide  
support for those from communities  
typically underrepresented in the military-  
veteran ecosystem and systematically  
disadvantaged by societal barriers. In 2020, 
Boeing invested more than $14 million in 
support of veteran transition services and 
recovery and rehabilitation programs.
Additionally, Boeing has committed to a  
$4.5 million, three-year partnership with  
the Institute for Veterans & Military Families  
to establish Future Force, a workforce  
training, recruitment and placement  
program for veterans. 
New Home, New Start
On Sept. 12, 2020, one day after the  
19th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks,  
Sgt. Nathan Shumaker, a soldier who  
served in Afghanistan, received the keys  
to his new home in Hillsboro, Missouri,  
near St. Louis. The home was specially  
built for Shumaker and his family by Homes 
For Our Troops, a nonprofit that builds and 
donates homes to severely injured veterans.  
In 2019, The Boeing Charitable Trust made a 
$3 million, three-year investment in Homes  
For Our Troops to support build projects 
across the United States. 
Boeing teammates Maria Passaseo (center) and  
Kim O’Rourke (right) present Claudia Bonilla Keller, Second 
Harvest Food Bank’s chief mission officer, with a $20,000 
check on behalf of the Employees Community Fund. 
Through Employees Community Fund grants, Boeing 
teammates collectively contributed more than $1.3 million 
to support COVID-19 response in their communities.Purposeful Partnerships
program FUTURE U and support of  
organizations like FIRST Robotics, Newton 
Rooms and Soaring with Your Dream,  
the company had helped introduce millions  
of students to the wonder of aerospace  
and technology. In May 2021, Boeing  
committed $50 million to Virginia Tech  
Innovation Campus as the first foundational 
partner in this transformative investment  
that will help diversify the global technology 
industry and bolster the Washington, D.C., 
region as a global innovation hub.
FUTURE U provides hands-on, experiential learning  
tools to ignite excitement in STEM. During the pandemic, 
Boeing distributed FUTURE U kits at an event at McCluer 
South-Berkeley High School in Ferguson, Missouri, to 
help students learning remotely. 
COMMUNITIES  52
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsOur Homes:  
Dynamic Communities
Boeing works to apply sustainable solutions 
to local challenges in order to strengthen  
the communities where our employees  
and their families live and work. The company 
has flexibility to respond to local community 
needs and places a special emphasis  
on partnerships that advance economic  
mobility for communities of color, promote 
community well-being, and increase  
resources and support to break the cycle  
of incarceration. In 2020, Boeing provided 
support for more than 13,000 community partners worldwide, which includes over  
$6 million through 78 grants that were  
invested to support more than 30,000  
marginalized community members, young 
adults, and veterans and their families in 
obtaining high-demand employment or  
skills training.
Boeing and Allen University  
Partner to Establish the  
Boeing Institute on Civility
In 2020, Boeing and Allen University  
announced a new $1.5 million partnership 
to establish the Boeing Institute on Civility at Allen University. The institute will be a national 
hub for teaching and provide programming 
aimed at advancing civil discourse in America 
and across the globe.
INSTITUTE WILL HONOR VICTIMS  
OF RACIAL VIOLENCE
Boeing’s funding will support the renovation  
of the historic Good Samaritan-Waverly 
Hospital, which will house the institute once 
construction is complete. The institute will  
include the South Carolina African American 
Hall of Fame as well as a memorial to honor 
The Boeing Institute on Civility at Allen University will become a powerful catalyst for helping to promote thoughtful civil 
discourse. Empowering students and the broader community to debate public issues with civility and respect is an 
important step on the journey to developing lasting societal solutions.the nine victims of the 2015 Mother  
Emanuel AME Church tragedy in  
Charleston, South Carolina.
ADVANCING RACIAL EQUITY
This investment builds on Boeing’s  
commitment to advancing racial equity  
and social justice in society. Over the last  
five years, Boeing has invested more than 
$17 million in organizations to expand access 
and address inequities for communities of 
color across South Carolina.
Tiffin Evans, wife of Boeing employee Scott Evans, picks up trash at a community cleanup event in Kinloch, Missouri —
the oldest Black community to be incorporated in the state. Even through the COVID-19 pandemic, Boeing teammates 
volunteered an impressive 250,000 hours in their communities.
COMMUNITIES  53
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsSTEM Across Europe
A multiyear investment from Boeing will 
establish Newton Rooms in nine countries: 
Germany, Netherlands, Poland, France,  
Italy, Spain, Belgium, Turkey and United 
Kingdom. Newton Rooms offer high-quality 
STEM learning through real-world aviation 
concepts such as space, biofuels, and 
advanced materials and manufacturing to 
communities around Europe.
In March 2020, a Mobile Newton Room 
opened in Neu-Isenburg, Germany, near 
Boeing Global Services facilities in Frankfurt.  
In addition to completing the training module 
“Up in the Air With Numbers,” students  
also toured the facilities and interacted with 
Boeing employees. Newton Rooms have also 
opened in Lugo, Spain and Łódz, Poland.
Climate Education in Asia 
In South Korea, Boeing partnered with the 
Korea Green Foundation to hold a series of 
virtual courses on climate change for students 
in grades 5 through 8. Throughout the  
month, a total of 50 students learned about 
the impacts of climate change and what they 
can do to help educate others and minimize 
the impact. 
Students also made terrariums out of items 
they had at home. Participants were chosen 
for the virtual event through an online essay 
competition explaining why combating climate 
change is important to them. Boeing has 
partnered with the Korea Green Foundation  
for more than a decade.
Two students experience real-world aviation concepts at a STEM facility in Neu-Isenburg, Germany.
We partnered with the Korea Green Foundation for elementary-school virtual courses on climate change in Seoul.
“ Boeing’s Global Sustainability Policy  
& Partnerships team is a catalyst  
for collaboration between industry, 
government, academia and civil society 
toward a common goal: sustainable 
aerospace. At Boeing, we partner with 
internal and external stakeholders to 
accelerate our environmental steward -
ship, social progress and values-based 
governance efforts by identifying and 
responding to global sustainability 
trends, informing emerging regulations 
and creating innovative partnerships  
for sustainable aviation growth.” 
   Valentina Vecchio, Europe (Brussels) 
Regional Lead, Global Sustainability  
Policy & PartnershipsEngaging Around the Globe
´
COMMUNITIES  54
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsAlways on Call: Supporting Global 
Customers’ Pandemic Response
 –More than 21 million pounds (90,700 
kilograms) of medical equipment  
delivered worldwide 
 –12 countries supported by missions 
 –Hundreds of flight-hours achieved 
 –Nearly 500 people repatriated 
In 2020, nations came together and rallied 
against a common enemy, COVID-19, with 
many activating their defense forces to 
combat the virus. Inherent in most critical 
humanitarian missions is the desire to drive 
efficiency while maintaining safety and quality 
standards, and the global COVID-19 missions 
were no exception. BOEING STEPS UP
As COVID-19 rapidly spread, Boeing’s  
people, products and customers stepped  
up to aid in relief efforts. In particular, the  
Boeing C-17 Globemaster III and KC-767 
tanker took center stage due, in part,  
to the aircrafts’ load capacity, ability to  
accommodate multiple configurations  
and service support teams in place to  
ensure mission readiness. 
From the Congo jungle to Middle East 
deserts, the C-17 and KC-767 delivered 
critical medical supplies and repatriated 
hundreds of people as borders began to 
close. Numerous aircraft configurations were 
adopted to accommodate pallets of supplies, 
bio-containment stretchers, seats to transport 
up to 200 people and even temporary 
hospital facilities in some instances.   With hundreds of flight-hours being recorded 
within a matter of days, Boeing Global 
Services teams were on call to ensure the 
aircraft were ready to meet the needs of a 
nation at a moment’s notice. Boeing teams 
advised customers on how best to optimize 
their fleets based on mission requirements 
and operate in various climates. In addition, 
technical support on cabin air filtration  
and post-flight aircraft decontamination 
procedures were provided by Boeing 
Commercial Airplanes. 
DEFENSE FORCE ALIGNMENT
The pandemic underscores the need for 
interoperability and alignment between 
nations’ defense forces. Sustainable solutions 
to address operational cost of defense 
platforms, optimization of fleets and the ability 
to operate in extreme climates are critical to 
national security and overall defense posture. Italian nationals exit a KC-767A tanker following  
a repatriation mission. 
An Indian Air Force C-17 carries an oxygen truck during the recent COVID-19 crisis.
 Medical equipment is unloaded at Italy’s Pratica di Mare Air Base.
COMMUNITIES  55
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsAPPENDIX
We self-declare that this Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI 
Standards: Core Option. The GRI Index below indicates the location of each GRI disclosure 
within this Sustainability Report, on our external website or other Boeing reports, or it states 
the information directly. In the SASB Index and TCFD Index, we have aligned our disclosures 
with the recommended disclosures and metrics in the SASB Aerospace & Defense Standard 
and the TCFD framework. We will continue to evaluate our disclosure approach moving  
forward to ensure we are providing relevant information in an efficient and effective manner.
All data within Key ESG Data, GRI, SASB and TCFD indexes is for the period from  
Jan. 1, 2020, through Dec. 31, 2020, or as of Dec. 31, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
INDEXES
 –Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
 –Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)
 –Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (U.N. SDG s)
AWARDS AND RECOGNITION
MEMBERSHIPS AND PARTNERSHIPS
KEY ENVIRONMENT, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE (ESG) DATA
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT S 
APPENDIX  56
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsDisclosure Disclosure Title Sustainability Report Section(s) Additional Reference(s)/Link(s)
GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
102-1 Name of the organization The Boeing Company 
AR Form 10-K  Cover Page
102-2 Activities, brands, products and services Company Profile, Page 13 AR Form 10-K  Pages 1-6   
AR Pages 154-163
Boeing Overview
102-3 Location of headquarters Chicago, Illinois
AR Form 10-K  Cover Page
102-4 Location of operations Company Profile, Page 13 State Impact
Global Impact
Boeing International
AR Form 10-K  Pages 20-21 
102-5 Ownership and legal form AR Form 10-K  Cover Page
102-6 Markets served Company Profile, Page 13 Boeing Market Outlook
102-7 Scale of the organization Company Profile, Page 13 Employment Data
AR Form 10-K  Pages 20, 35, 41, 62, 64, 126
PR Page 64 
102-8 Information on employees and other workers Global Diversity, Equity and Inclusion,  
Pages 27-29 ; Employee and Labor  
Relations, Page 32AR Form 10-K  Pages 2-3
Boeing 2021 Global Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Report  
102-9 Supply chain Responsible Supply Chain, Pages 47-48 State Impact
Global Impact
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain PR Page 3
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Boeing has a robust enterprise risk management (ERM) process, which is described 
in the Governance and Risk Management  section. While the Precautionary Principle 
is not specifically applied as part of our ERM, we do consider environmental protection 
as a fundamental part of our approach to business. For example, the Due Diligence 
program conducts reviews designed to reduce risks and to facilitate efficient  
environment, health and safety integration of acquired properties and business 
operations. Environmental considerations are also included in our life-cycle  
assessments of products and projects. Life-cycle assessments are discussed 
further in the Products & Services  section of the SR.GRI Index
SR = 2021 Sustainability Report  
AR = 2020 Annual Report  
PR = 2021 Proxy Report
APPENDIX  57
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsDisclosure Disclosure Title Sustainability Report Section(s)  Additional Reference(s)/Link(s)
GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES (CONTINUED)
102-12 External initiatives U.N. SDGs, Pages 69-70 ;
Awards and Recognition/Memberships  
and Partnerships, Page 712021 Boeing Global Engagement Portfolio  Pages 46-48 
102-13 Membership of associations Awards and Recognition/Memberships  
and Partnerships, Page 71Trade Association Memberships
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO Letter, Pages 3-4
102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities Sustainability Approach, Page 14 ;  
Sustainability Priorities, Pages 15-16
102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior Ethical and Compliant Business,  
Pages 18-20Our Values
Ethics and Compliance
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Ethical and Compliant Business,  
Pages 18-20Ethical Business Conduct Guidelines
102-18 Governance structure Sustainability Approach, Page 14 ;  
Governance and Risk Management, Pages 
21-22 ; Aerospace Safety and Quality, Page 34PR Pages 19-22 
102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental 
and social topics Sustainability Approach, Page 14
102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its 
committeesPR Pages 8-9, 10-16, 19
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body The Board chair is not an executive officer of the company. 
PR Page 17 
102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body PR Pages 9-10, 17
102-25 Conflicts of interest PR Pages 27, 30-31 
102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance PR Page 22 
102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental  
and social impactsGovernance and Risk Management,  
Pages 21-22PR Pages 21-22
102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Governance and Risk Management,  
Pages 21-22PR Pages 21-22 SR = 2021 Sustainability Report  
AR = 2020 Annual Report  
PR = 2021 Proxy Report
APPENDIX  58
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsDisclosure Disclosure Title Sustainability Report Section(s) Additional Reference(s)/Link(s)
GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES (CONTINUED)
102-31 Review of economic, environmental and social topics Governance and Risk Management,  
Pages 21-22PR Pages 21-22 
102-33 Communicating critical concerns (to highest  
governing body)Ethical and Compliant Business,  
Pages 18-20Ethical Business Conduct Guidelines
PR Page 23 
102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns   
102-35 Remuneration policies (for the highest governance  
body and senior executives for the following types of 
remuneration) PR Pages 33-49 
102-37 Stakeholders' involvement in remuneration  PR Pages 18, 32 
102-38 Annual total compensation ratio  PR Page 60 
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Sustainability Priorities, Pages 15-16
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Employee and Labor Relations, Page 32 AR Form 10-K  Pages 3, 20
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Sustainability Priorities, Pages 15-16
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Sustainability Priorities, Pages 15-16 PR Page 18 
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Sustainability Priorities, Pages 15-16 PR Page 18 
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements  The Boeing Company and Subsidiaries
Exhibit 21 to AR Form 10-K  
102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Sustainability Priorities, Pages 15-16
102-47 List of material topics Sustainability Priorities, Pages 15-16
102-48 Restatements of information  None. This is Boeing’s first Sustainability Report. Previously, Boeing published a 
family of reports that includes the 2020 Global Environment Report , 2020 Global 
Environment Report Companion Summary  and 2021 Boeing Global Engagement 
Portfolio .SR = 2021 Sustainability Report  
AR = 2020 Annual Report  
PR = 2021 Proxy Report
APPENDIX  59
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsDisclosure Disclosure Title Sustainability Report Section(s) Additional Reference(s)/Link(s)
GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES (CONTINUED)
102-49 Changes in reporting  None. This is Boeing’s first Sustainability Report. Previously, Boeing published a 
family of reports that includes the 2020 Global Environment Report , 2020 Global 
Environment Report Companion Summary  and 2021 Boeing Global Engagement 
Portfolio .
102-50 Reporting period  1/1/2020-12/31/2020, unless otherwise noted
102-51 Date of most recent report  Not applicable. This is Boeing’s first Sustainability Report. Previously, Boeing 
published a family of reports that includes the 2020 Global Environment Report , 
2020 Global Environment Report Companion Summary  and 2021 Boeing Global 
Engagement Portfolio .
102-52 Reporting cycle  Annual
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report  Boeing Communications
Email: media@boeing.com
Phone: 312-544-2000
Mailing Address: 100 N. Riverside Plaza, Chicago, IL 60606
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Appendix, Page 56 The Boeing Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core Option.
102-55 GRI content index GRI Index, Pages 57-64  
102-56 External assurance  Select environmental data have been externally verified by DNV GL. See statement . 
GRI 103 – MANAGEMENT APPROACH
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Sustainability Priorities, Pages 15-16
103-2 The management approach and its components Sustainability Priorities, Pages 15-16
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Sustainability Priorities, Pages 15-16SR = 2021 Sustainability Report  
AR = 2020 Annual Report  
PR = 2021 Proxy Report
APPENDIX  60
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsDisclosure Disclosure Title Sustainability Report Section(s) Additional Reference(s)/Link(s)
GRI 201: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Company Profile, Page 13 AR Page 16
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due 
to climate changeAddressing Climate Change, Page 41 CDP climate report1 C2.3a, C2.4a 
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans  AR Form 10-K  Pages 106-115 
GRI 203: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Purposeful Partnerships, Pages 52-5 3 Community Engagement
2021 Boeing Global Engagement Portfolio
GRI 204: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES
204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 96% of our suppliers are local to our significant locations of operations, and spend 
with these local suppliers comprised 85% of our supplier spend. Local suppliers 
are defined as domestic in relation to the location of operation, and significant 
locations of operation are defined as major operational areas as determined by 
square footage.
GRI 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Ethical and Compliant Business, Page 20 Anti-Corruption
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies 
and proceduresEthical and Compliant Business, Page 20 Anti-Corruption
GRI 301: MATERIALS
301-1 Materials used by weight or volume AR Form 10-K  Page 5SR = 2021 Sustainability Report  
AR = 2020 Annual Report  
PR = 2021 Proxy Report
1. Boeing participates annually in the CDP climate report. Our most recent response is available on our website here in accordance with the CDP reporting schedule.  
APPENDIX  61
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsDisclosure Disclosure Title Sustainability Report Section(s) Additional Reference(s)/Link(s)
GRI 302: ENERGY
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Key ESG Data, Page 72 CDP climate report1 C8.2a
302-3 Energy intensity Key ESG Data, Page 72  
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Conserving Resources, Pages 42-43
GRI 303: WATER
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Conserving Resources, Page 43 ;
Key ESG Data, Page 72
303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts Conserving Resources, Page 43
303-3 Water withdrawal Key ESG Data, Page 72
GRI 304: BIODIVERSITY
304-3 Habitats protected or restored Environmental Compliance and Biodiversity, 
Page 46
GRI 305: EMISSIONS
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Key ESG Data, Page 72 CDP climate report1 C6.1 
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Key ESG Data, Page 72 CDP climate report1 C6.2 
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Key ESG Data, Page 72 CDP climate report1 C6.5 
305-4 GHG emissions intensity Key ESG Data, Page 72 CDP climate report1 C6.10 
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Conserving Resources, Page 42  
GRI 306: WASTE
306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts Reducing Waste, Pages 44-45
306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts Reducing Waste, Pages 44-45
306-5 Waste directed to disposal Key ESG Data, Page 73SR = 2021 Sustainability Report  
AR = 2020 Annual Report  
PR = 2021 Proxy Report
1. Boeing participates annually in the CDP climate report. Our most recent response is available on our website here in accordance with the CDP reporting schedule.  
APPENDIX  62
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsDisclosure Disclosure Title Sustainability Report Section(s) Additional Reference(s)/Link(s)
GRI 307: ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE
307-1 Noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations Environmental Compliance and Biodiversity, 
Page 46 ; Key ESG Data, Page 73
GRI 308: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using  
environmental criteria Boeing does not screen suppliers using environmental criteria.
GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT
401-3 Parental leave Professional Development, Education and 
Training, Pages 30 -31Benefits
GRI 402: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS
402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes We provide advance notice in accordance with all applicable legal and/or  
contractual requirements in the different locations where we operate.
GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system Safety-First Culture, Pages 24-26
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment and incident  
investigationSafety-First Culture, Pages 24-26
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety Safety-First Culture, Pages 24-26
403-6 Promotion of worker health Safety-First Culture, Pages 24-26 ;
Professional Development, Education and 
Training, Pages 30-31
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety 
management systemSafety-First Culture, Pages 24-26  
403-9 Work-related injuries Safety-First Culture, Page 24
GRI 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 
assistance programsProfessional Development, Education and 
Training, Pages 30-31 ; Employee and Labor 
Relations, Page 32SR = 2021 Sustainability Report  
AR = 2020 Annual Report  
PR = 2021 Proxy Report
APPENDIX  63
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsDisclosure Disclosure Title Sustainability Report Section(s) Additional Reference(s)/Link(s)
GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Global Equity, Diversity and Inclusion, Page 27 ; 
Governance and Risk Management, Page 21PR Pages 8-9, 10-16 
Boeing 2021 Global Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Report
GRI 406: NONDISCRIMINATION
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Global Equity, Diversity and Inclusion, Page 28 Boeing 2021 Global Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Report
GRI 407: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING
407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of 
association and collective bargaining may be at riskEmployee and Labor Relations, Page 32 ;
Ethical and Compliant Business, Page 18AR Form 10-K  Page 20 
GRI 413: LOCAL COMMUNITIES
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact 
assessments and development programs (percentage  
of operations) Boeing Responds to COVID-19, Page 5 ;
Purposeful Partnerships, Pages 52-5 32021 Boeing Global Engagement Portfolio
GRI 414: SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria  Boeing does not screen suppliers using social criteria.
GRI 416: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product 
and service categoriesBoeing Responds to COVID-19, Page 6 ;
Aerospace Safety and Quality, Page 34Confident Travel Initiative
Statistical Summary of Commercial Jet Airplane Accidents
416-2 Incidents of noncompliance concerning the health and 
safety impacts of products and servicesAerospace Safety and Quality, Page 34 AR Pages 2-3 
PR Pages 1-2 
SASB RT-AE-250a.3
Statistical Summary of Commercial Jet Airplane Accidents
GRI 418: CUSTOMER PRIVACY
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of  
customer privacy and losses of customer dataData Privacy and Information Security, Page 49 SASB RT-AE-230a.2
GRI 419: SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE
419-1 Noncompliance with laws and regulations in the social and 
economic area We are not aware of any items that we believe would be responsive to 419-1a.SR = 2021 Sustainability Report  
AR = 2020 Annual Report  
PR = 2021 Proxy Report
APPENDIX  64
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsAccounting Metric Code Boeing Metric or Qualitative Disclosure(s) and Disclosure Location(s) 
ENERGY MANAGEMENT
Total energy consumed RT-AE-130a.1 Key ESG Data, Page 72
Percentage of grid electricity RT-AE-130a.1 Conserving Resources, Page 43
Percentage of renewable energy RT-AE-130a.1 Conserving Resources, Page 43
HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT
Amount of hazardous waste generated RT-AE-150a.1 Key ESG Data, Page 73
Percentage of hazardous waste recycled RT-AE-150a.1 Key ESG Data, Page 73
Number and aggregate quantity of reportable 
spillsRT-AE-150a.2 Environmental Compliance and Biodiversity, Page 46 ;
Key ESG Data, Page 73
Quantity recovered from reportable spills RT-AE-150a.2 N/A (no reportable spills per SASB application guidance)
DATA SECURITY
Description of approach to identifying and 
addressing data security risks in company 
operationsRT-AE-230a.2 Boeing has a robust incident response program in the event of an actual or suspected incident, which includes processes and protocols 
required to anticipate, detect, mitigate and communicate potential impacts of an incident on Boeing’s information assets, business operations 
and reputation. The key phases of all investigations include receiving alerts, mobilizing a response team, containment, investigation, recovery, 
notification/reporting and lessons learned. In order to ensure that the right people are engaged at the right time during an incident investiga -
tion, we have identified the internal and external organizations that need to be engaged for each incident type, the reporting protocols including 
Department of Defense and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) notification requirements, and the timing and sequence of key 
incident response activities. We routinely update our processes with lessons learned from prior incidents and simulations/tabletop exercises, 
ensuring that Boeing has a clear, effective and robust incident response process.  
Description of approach to identifying and 
addressing data security risks in productsRT-AE-230a.2 Product Security Engineering provides a disciplined approach to the development and sustainment of our products, which is essential to 
ensuring mission assurance/resiliency and security. Security is integrated into our engineering processes starting from concept development, 
ensuring that we develop products that are secure by design. Key cyber attributes are identified during requirements engineering, allocated 
throughout design, implemented and validated during development, fully tested and supported during sustainment. Additionally Boeing  
works to ensure that our products are designed to anticipate, withstand, recover and adapt to cyberattack. Specifically our internal design 
practices have high-level requirements to baseline and monitor data flow and system behavior, detect anomalies and actively manage  
system configuration. The ability for our systems to understand normal operations and rapidly detect and mitigate abnormal operations, 
combined with the security engineering focus of our development processes, provides Boeing programs with a proactive approach to the  
risk of data breaches. Product security is also integrated into the Boeing enterprise Incident Response process, and we work seamlessly  
with stakeholders to rapidly identify, analyze and mitigate vulnerabilities and breaches across our portfolio.      SASB Index
SR = 2021 Sustainability Report  
AR = 2020 Annual Report  
PR = 2021 Proxy Report
APPENDIX  65
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsAccounting Metric Code Boeing Metric or Qualitative Disclosure(s) and Disclosure Location(s) 
PRODUCT SAFETY
Number of Airworthiness Directives received RT-AE-250a.3 53 (see the FAA Dynamic Regulatory System )
Statistical Summary of Commercial Jet Airplane Accidents
FUEL ECONOMY AND EMISSIONS IN USE-PHASE
Revenue from alternative-energy-related 
productsRT-AE-410a.1 Per ASTM standards, all commercial turbojet airplanes are certified to fly revenue passengers with a blend of up to 50% sustainable aviation 
fuels derived from biomass and other sustainable sources. Boeing Commercial Airplanes 2020 revenues ($16,162 million) are listed in our  
AR Form 10-K , Page 27.
Description of approach and discussion of 
strategy to address fuel economy and GHG 
emissions of productsRT-AE-410a.2 Partnering for Sustainable Aerospace, Pages 7-10
Innovation and Clean Technology, Page 37
MATERIALS SOURCING
Description of the management of risks associ -
ated with the use of critical materialsRT-AE-440a.1 AR Form 10-K  Pages 5, 13 
We are highly dependent on the availability of essential materials, parts and subassemblies from our suppliers and subcontractors. The most 
important raw materials required for our aerospace products are aluminum (sheet, plate, forgings and extrusions), titanium (sheet, plate, 
forgings and extrusions) and composites (including carbon and boron). Although alternative sources generally exist for these raw materials, 
qualification of the sources could take a year or more. Many major components and product equipment items are procured or subcontracted 
on a sole-source basis with a number of companies.
BUSINESS ETHICS
Discussion of processes to manage business 
ethics risks throughout the value chainRT-AE-510a.3 Boeing Operations:
Ethical and Compliant Business, Pages 18-20
Ethics and Compliance
Ethical Business Conduct Guidelines
Suppliers:
Suppliers are encouraged to model their ethics program in accordance with the Federal Sentencing Guidelines and industry best practices. 
Boeing believes that our suppliers and partners share the goal of maintaining the highest standards of business conduct. This shared goal  
helps enable compliant company performance across all geographic locations. We also recognize that continued, collaborative partnership 
between our company, suppliers and other third parties leads to relationships built on trust and respect — which leads to enhanced  
business performance.
Boeing Supplier PrinciplesSR = 2021 Sustainability Report  
AR = 2020 Annual Report  
PR = 2021 Proxy Report
APPENDIX  66
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsAccounting Metric Code Boeing Metric or Qualitative Disclosure(s) and Disclosure Location(s) 
ACTIVITY METRICS
Production by reportable segment RT-AE-000.A 2020 Full-Year Deliveries: 
737: 43
747: 5
767: 30
777: 26
787: 53
AH-64 Apache (New): 19
AH-64 Apache (Remanufactured): 52
CH-47 Chinook (New): 27
CH-47 Chinook (Renewed): 3
F-15 Models: 4
F/A-18 Models: 20
KC-46A Tanker: 14
P-8 Models: 15
The number of quarterly and annual deliveries for Boeing Commercial Airplanes and Boeing Defense, Space & Security are provided in our 
quarterly Form 10-Q and annual Form 10-K filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Number of employees RT-AE-000.B 141,000
Employment DataSR = 2021 Sustainability Report  
AR = 2020 Annual Report  
PR = 2021 Proxy Report
APPENDIX  67
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsDisclosure TCFD Recommended Disclosure Sustainability Report Section(s)  Additional Reference(s)  
GOVERNANCEDescribe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities Governance and Risk Management, 
Pages 21-22CDP climate report1 C1.1b 
Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks 
and opportunitiesCDP climate report1 C1.2, C1.2a 
STRATEGYDescribe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization has 
identified over the short, medium and long termCDP climate report1 C2.3a, C2.4a 
Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the  
organization’s businesses, strategy and financial planning CDP climate report1 C2.3a, C2.4a, C3.3, C3.4 
Describe the potential impact of different scenarios, including a 2˚C scenario, 
on the organization’s businesses, strategy and financial planningCDP climate report1 C3.2
RISK  
MANAGEMENTDescribe the organization’s process for identifying and assessing  
climate-related risksCDP climate report1 C2.1, C2.2, C2.2a
Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate-related risks CDP climate report1 C2.1, C2.2 
Describe how processes for identifying, assessing and managing climate-  
related risks are integrated into the organization’s overall risk managementGovernance and Risk Management, 
Page 21CDP climate report1 C2.1, C2.2 
METRICS  
AND TARGETSDisclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-related risks 
and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk-management process CDP climate report1 C4.2, C9.1 
Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse  
gas (GHG) emissions and the related risksKey ESG Data, Page 72 CDP climate report1 C6.1, C6.3, C6.5 
Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate-related risks 
and opportunities and performance against targetsAddressing Climate Change, Page 41 ;
Conserving Resources, Page 42CDP climate report1 C4.1a, C4.1b, C4.2a, C4.2b
In addition, the commercial aviation industry has  
ambitious goals for CO2 emissions, including 1.5%  
annual improvements in fuel efficiency for the global  
fleet, carbon-neutral growth starting from 2020 and  
a 50% reduction in CO2 emissions by 2050  
compared with 2005 levels.TCFD Index
SR = 2021 Sustainability Report  
AR = 2020 Annual Report  
PR = 2021 Proxy Report
1. Boeing participates annually in the CDP climate report. Our most recent response is available on our website here in accordance with the CDP reporting schedule.  
APPENDIX  68
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsU.N. Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) 
are a universal call to action to end poverty, 
protect the planet, and improve the lives and 
prospects of everyone, everywhere. Boeing 
supports all 17 SDGs and has identified  
eight goals of focus, listed at right and on  
the following page, in which we are committed 
to outcomes that make the world a better  
place for all.Good Health and Well-Being
 –Our Go for Zero initiative prioritizes workplace safety. Since Go for Zero’s introduction in 2013, Boeing has 
seen significant reductions in serious safety accidents and injuries.
 –Boeing provides 12 weeks off with full pay to mothers and fathers for the birth, adoption or surrogacy  
of a child or placement of a foster child.1 
 –During the COVID-19 pandemic, Boeing adjusted its operations and implemented extensive safety  
precautions to reduce the spread of the COVID-19 virus, helped deliver more than 4.5 million units of  
personal protective equipment and produced 40,000 3D-printed face shields at 18 Boeing sites.
Quality Education
 –We support STEM education and seek to inspire the next generation of innovators, contributing nearly  
$50 million across 267 grants to support STEM education and workforce development programs in 2020. 
 –Through free, online STEM programs around the world such as FUTURE U, FIRST Robotics, Newton 
Rooms and Soar With Your Dream, we have introduced millions of young minds to the wonder of  
aerospace and technology.
 –We have invested more than $1 billion in our employees’ college tuition, books and fees through our 
industry-leading Learning Together tuition assistance program and continue to do so.
Gender Equality
 –The underrepresentation of girls and women in STEM fields is a global challenge. In 2020, we inspired an 
estimated 3.7 million young women and girls in STEM.
 –Boeing is also a global supporter of Catalyst — a recognized leader in gender equity with a mission to 
accelerate progress for women through workplace inclusion. 
 –Over the past nine years, Boeing and The Boeing Charitable Trust have contributed $232 million toward 
community initiatives that have had a positive impact on nearly 10 million young women and girls around  
the world.
Decent Work and Economic Growth
 –Boeing is proud to be a vital part of the global aviation community that, in a pre-COVID-19 world, supported 
over 88 million jobs and $3.5 trillion in global economic activity per year. 
 –Boeing and its employees donated more than $234 million and contributed 250,000 volunteer hours to 
13,400 community partners in 2020 to help build better communities worldwide.
 –Boeing contracts with approximately 12,000 suppliers globally. In 2020, we spent nearly $48 billion with 
suppliers from 58 countries and in all 50 U.S. states.
1.  While some benefit programs are global, certain programs and offerings vary by country, subject to program availability, local laws and customs.
APPENDIX  69
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsIndustry Innovation and Infrastructure
 –Boeing has invested more than $60 billion over the last 10 years in key strategic areas, including innova -
tive technologies such as digital manufacturing, carbon composite materials, advanced high-bypass-ratio 
engine designs and other aerodynamic improvements such as natural laminar flow that reduces drag to 
improve environmental efficiency.
 –Each new generation of Boeing airplanes is 15% to 25% more efficient than the generation before. 
 –Our team is shaping the future of sustainable aviation through research and technology development focused 
on unlocking the potential of sustainable fuels, improved flight performance and renewable energy applications. 
 –Boeing is committed to delivering commercial airplanes that are capable and certified to fly on 100% 
sustainable aviation fuel by 2030.
Reduced Inequalities 
 –Boeing will provide — at a minimum — $25 million to advance racial equity and social justice in our  
communities by 2023. 
 –In 2020, Boeing invested $15.6 million to promote racial equity and social justice programs — including 
funding aimed at diversifying the aerospace workforce.
 –Boeing established an Equity Action Plan and Racial Equity Task Force in 2020 and committed to a 20% 
increase in representation of Black Boeing employees in the United States.
Responsible Consumption and Production
 –Boeing is committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 25%, water consumption and solid waste  
to landfill by 20%, energy use by 10% and hazardous waste by 5% within its operations by 2025 (compared 
to 2017 levels). 
 –Boeing manufacturing, worksites and business travel achieved net-zero CO2 emissions in 2020 through 
conservation, renewable electricity and responsible offsets.
 –Innovative carbon-fiber recycling at 11 Boeing manufacturing sites is set to divert up to 1 million pounds  
(454,000 kilograms) of solid waste from landfills annually and is zero waste to landfill at six sites.
Climate Action
 –Boeing actively supports the industry’s goals to decarbonize aviation through continued advancements in 
technology, operations and infrastructure, sustainable aviation fuels and carbon offsets. 
 –We have been a leader in collaborating across the industry to pioneer sustainable aviation fuels, which 
reduce CO2 emissions from flying by up to 80% over the fuel’s life cycle.
 –Our factories in Renton, Washington, and Charleston, South Carolina; sites in Illinois, Indiana, Ohio,  
Pennsylvania and Texas; and a large data center in Arizona run on 100% renewable electricity.Boeing and our suppliers jointly work together 
toward the success and sustainability of  
the supply chain. Noted here are relevant  
examples of our alignment with the SDGs.
APPENDIX  70
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsKey Memberships and PartnershipsPEOPLE
 –American Indian Science and Engineering 
Society Top 50 Workplace for Indigenous 
STEM Professionals
 –Arizona Department of Veterans’  
Services and Arizona Coalition for  
Military Families — Arizona Veteran 
Supportive Employer
 –Career Communications Group Inc.  
Top Supporter of HBCU Engineering  
Schools (No. 2)
 –Dave Thomas Foundation for Adoption 
Best for Adoption-Friendly Workplace  
(No. 36)
 –DiversityInc Top 50 Company for Diversity 
(No. 17 in 2021)
 –Disability:iN Best Places to Work for  
Disability Inclusion (achieved score  
of 100%)
 –Aerospace Industries Association of 
America Inc.
 –Aircraft Fleet Recycling Association
 –Air Transport Action Group
 –Alliance of Western Energy Consumers
 –Association of Unmanned Vehicle Systems 
International
 –Association of Washington Business
 –Brazil-U.S. Business Council
 –Business RoundtablePRODUCTS AND SERVICES
 –Derwent/Clarivate Top 100 Global  
Innovators 
 –National Aeronautic Association  
Robert J. Collier Trophy awarded to the  
U.S. Air Force and Boeing team for the  
X-37B autonomous spaceplaneOPERATIONS
 –U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 
(EPA) Green Power Partnership Fortune  
500 Partner List (No. 19)
 –EPA Energy Star Partner of the Year every 
year since 2010
 –National Association of Manufacturers 
Sustainability Leadership High Achiever 
Award
 –Pierce Conservation District Brian Abbott 
Above and Beyond Award
COMMUNITIES
 –Chief Executives for Corporate Purpose —  
ranked in the top quartile for total giving
 –Wildlife Habitat Council Habitat  
Restoration Award
 –Corporate Eco Forum
 –Dallas Regional Chamber
 –General Aviation Manufacturers Association
 –Great Seattle Chamber of Commerce
 –International Aerospace Environmental 
Group
 –International Air Transport Association
 –International Civil Aviation Organization
 –FIRST Robotics –National Association of Manufacturers
 –Newton Europe
 –Out & Equal Workplace Advocates
 –Renewable Energy Buyers Alliance 
 –Responsible Business Alliance
 –Roundtable on Sustainable Biomaterials
 –Society of Women Engineers
 –St. Louis Regional Chamber of Commerce –Sustainability 50/World 50
 –United Service Organization
 –U.S. Chamber of Commerce
 –U.S. Council for International Business
 –Washington Roundtable
 –Wildlife Habitat Council
 –World Economic Forum
For a list of community partners, refer to 
Pages 46-48 of the 2021 Boeing Global 
Engagement Portfolio .Awards and Recognition / Memberships and Partnerships
 –Military Times Best for Vets Employers  
(No. 7)
 –Top 10 Military Friendly® Company (No. 5) 
APPENDIX  71
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsEnergy Megawatt hours Terajoules
Natural gas  1,716,000  6,178 
Jet kerosene  569,000  2,048 
Fuel oil #2  103,000  371 
Motor gasoline  21,000  76 
Propane  12,000  43 
Liquefied petroleum gas  – –
Total nonrenewable fuels  2,421,000  8,716 
Sustainable aviation fuel  2,000  7 
Total renewable fuels  2,000  7 
Purchased nonrenewable electricity  1,686,000  6,070 
Purchased renewable electricity  392,000  1,411 
Total purchased electricity  2,078,000  7,481 
Total energy use  4,499,000  16,196 
Percentage of total energy that  
is renewable9%
Percentage of total electricity that  
is grid electricity37%
Energy intensity 0.08 kWh/$ revenue
Data represents 100% of the company.
Renewable electricity data excludes any renewable energy that is part of the grid by default, in 
alignment with SASB and other frameworks. Notably, Boeing operates in a number of grids that 
rely significantly on renewable sources.
Boeing did not sell any electricity, heating or cooling energy.Water Kilogallons Megaliters Total water withdrawal from water-stressed areas
OFF-SITE WATER SOURCES
Surface water withdrawal  639,167  2,420 0%
Combination of surface water  
and groundwater withdrawal 423,353  1,603 22%
Groundwater withdrawal  83,596  316 31%
Reclaimed water (not withdrawn)  2,778  11 –
Total water withdrawal  1,148,894  4,350 10%
ON-SITE WATER SOURCES
On-site well water use  2,352  9 100%
On-site water reclamation  10,508  40 –
Boeing does not use seawater.
Water-stressed areas are those with high or extremely high water stress in the World Resources Institute Aqueduct Model.
Data represents 79% of operations by headcount.
Emissions Tons CO2e Metric tons CO2e
Scope 1 GHG 617,000 560,000 
Scope 2 GHG — location-based 882,000 800,000 
Scope 2 GHG — market-based 689,000 625,000 
Scope 3 GHG — business travel 101,000 92,000 
Scope 3 GHG — use of sold products 175,000,000 158,000,000
Total calculated GHG excluding sold products 2,289,000 2,077,000 
Core metrics sites GHG — location-based 1,091,000 990,000 
Core metrics sites GHG — market-based 902,000 818,000 
GHG intensity 0.00002 MT/$ revenue
Scope 1 and 2 data represents 100% of the company.
For Scopes 1, 2 and 3, we calculate emissions from CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6 and NF3 for this dataset.
Core metrics sites data represents emissions of CO2, CH4 and N2O where we track a subset of emissions from natural gas combustion 
and purchased electricity associated with sites that represent the majority (70%) of Boeing operations.
GHG intensity includes Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG (CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6 and NF3).
Use of sold products emissions are based on estimated lifetime emissions of Boeing Commercial Airplanes product deliveries in 2020, 
including direct emissions from combustion of fuel (136M metric tons) and indirect emissions from production of fuel (22M metric tons).Key ESG Data
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA
APPENDIX  72
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsWaste Metric tons
Hazardous waste incinerated for energy recovery  747 
Hazardous waste incinerated without energy recovery  1,019 
Hazardous waste sent to landfill  2,143 
Hazardous waste otherwise disposed  1,026 
Percentage of hazardous waste recycled 0.4%
Total hazardous waste generated  4,935 
Nonhazardous waste incinerated for energy recovery  147 
Nonhazardous waste incinerated without energy recovery  76 
Nonhazardous waste sent to landfill  343 
Nonhazardous waste otherwise disposed  68 
Percentage of nonhazardous waste recycled 12%
Total nonhazardous waste generated  634 
Universal waste incinerated without energy recovery  1 
Universal waste sent to landfill  10 
Percentage of universal waste recycled 62%
Total universal waste generated  11 Waste Metric tons
Solid waste incinerated for energy recovery  2,633 
Solid waste sent to landfill  8,888 
Percentage of solid waste recycled 75%
Total solid waste generated  11,521 
Total waste incinerated for energy recovery  3,527 
Total waste incinerated without energy recovery  1,095 
Total waste sent to landfill  11,384 
Total waste otherwise disposed  1,094 
Percentage of total waste recycled 59%
Total waste generated 40,841
Incidents incurring a penalty over US$10,000 1
Total of penalties over US$10,000  $17,410 
Number of aggregate spills 0
Quantity spilled 0
Quantity of spilled material recovered N/AWaste data represents  
approximately 70% of  
operations by headcount.
Compliance data represents  
all operations.
Total waste generated  
includes all recycled, reused  
and composted material.ENVIRONMENTAL DATA
APPENDIX  73
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsHealth and Well-Being
Fatalities 0
Lost workday case rate 0.43
Near-miss/hazard ratio to recordable injuries 24:1
Found/fixed metric 98%
Global Equity, Diversity and Inclusion
Employee Representation
Total Boeing employees 141,000
Non-U.S. employees 11%
Total Boeing employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 33%
U.S. employees who are veterans114.8%
Veterans Data: U.S.-based work locations of The Boeing Company, excluding non-fully integrated subsidiaries that 
are not on Boeing HR systems.
1. As of Dec. 17, 2020
Female Representation1
Overall (U.S.) 22.9%
Overall (Non-U.S.) 24.3%
Board of Directors 25.0%
Executive Council213.6%
Executives 31.8%
Managers 22.2%
New hires 22.0%
Gender Data: U.S.-based work locations of The Boeing Company, excluding subsidiaries except where noted.
1. As of Dec. 17, 2020
2. Executive Council gender data includes both U.S. and non-U.S. members.Racial and Ethnic Minority Representation1
Overall 31.2%
Board of Directors 16.7%
Executive Council235.0%
Executives 20.8%
Managers 23.0%
New hires 37.2%
Race and Ethnicity Data: U.S.-based work locations of The Boeing Company, excluding non-fully integrated  
subsidiaries that are not on Boeing HR systems.
Racial and ethnic minorities include Black, Asian, Hispanic, American Indian/Alaskan Native, Native Hawaiian or  
Other Pacific Islander, and Two or More Races.
1. As of Dec. 17, 2020
2.  Executive Council Race and Ethnicity data does not include non-U.S. members. However, Susan Doniz, Chief  
Information Officer and senior vice president of Information Technology & Data Analytics, openly identifies  
as Hispanic.PEOPLE
APPENDIX  74
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsCommunity Engagement
Community giving $234 million
Total volunteer hours 250,000 hours
Number of community partners 13,400
Contribution to grants supporting STEM education  
and workforce development programs$50 million 
Grants supporting STEM education and workforce  
development programs267
Contribution to veterans organizations $14.2 million
Veterans organizations supported 97
Contribution to nonprofits supporting racial equity  
and social justice$15.6 million Ethics Metrics
Inquiries 3,181 
Conflict of interest determinations 1,864
Investigative requests 4,786 
Total contacts to Ethics & Business Conduct19,831
Investigative requests with enough information to investigate23,561 
Percentage of investigated requests that were substantiated347%
1. Data reflects the reporting period of November 2019 through October 2020. 
2.  Investigated matters are unsubstantiated by Ethics when the investigation findings do not support a violation  
of policy or expected behaviors or where there is not sufficient evidence of misconduct.
3.  A recent evaluation demonstrated that Boeing’s substantiation rate is slightly higher than other published  
benchmarks, indicating an effective investigation process and informed reporting by company employees.COMMUNITIES GOVERNANCE
APPENDIX  75
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsForward-Looking Statements
Caution Concerning  
Forward-Looking Statements 
Certain statements in this report may  
be “forward-looking” within the meaning  
of the Private Securities Litigation Reform  
Act of 1995. Words such as “may,”  
“should,” “expects,” “intends,” “projects,” 
“plans,” “believes,” “estimates,” “targets,” 
“anticipates” and similar expressions  
generally identify these forward-looking  
statements. Examples of forward-looking 
statements include statements relating  
to our future plans, business prospects,  
financial condition and operating results,  
as well as any other statement that does  
not directly relate to any historical or current 
fact. Forward-looking statements are based 
on expectations and assumptions that we 
believe to be reasonable when made, but  
that may not prove to be accurate. These 
statements are not guarantees and are  
subject to risks, uncertainties and changes  
in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Many factors could cause actual results to 
differ materially and adversely from these 
forward-looking statements, including the 
COVID-19 pandemic and related industry  
impacts; the 737 MAX, including the timing 
and conditions of 737 MAX regulatory  
approvals, lower than planned production 
rates and/or delivery rates, and increased 
considerations to customers and suppliers; 
economic conditions in the United States  
and globally; general market and industry 
conditions as they may impact us or our  
customers; reliance on our commercial  
customers, our U.S. government customers 
and our suppliers; the overall health of  
our aircraft production system, as well  
as the other important factors disclosed  
previously and from time to time in The  
Boeing Company’s filings with the  
Securities and Exchange Commission.  
Any forward-looking statement speaks  
only as of the date on which it is made,  
and we assume no obligation to update  
or revise any such statement, whether as  
a result of new information, future events  
or otherwise, except as required by law.
APPENDIX  76
2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Contents People Introduction Appendix Approach & Governance Products & Services Communities OperationsThe Boeing Company  
100 North Riverside Plaza  
Chicago, IL 60606-1596  
USA
THE BOEING FAMILY OF REPORTS 
We are continually collecting, assessing and making available data 
about our company and the broader aerospace ecosystem to keep 
our employees, customers, communities, industry partners, investors 
and other stakeholders informed and engaged.
Global Equity, Diversity & Inclusion  
We believe in a culture and workplace where 
everyone is respected, valued and inspired 
to reach their fullest potential. Learn more 
about our Global Equity, Diversity & Inclusion 
efforts at boeing.com/diversity .Annual Report and Proxy
View our Annual Report and Proxy to find  
additional information about our financial 
performance and Boeing business  
practices. boeing.com/annual-report .Community Engagement
Through purposeful investments, employee 
engagement and thoughtful advocacy efforts, 
Boeing and its employees are helping build 
better communities worldwide. Learn more  
at boeing.com/community .
Copyright © 2021 Boeing. All rights reserved.