1
Build Something Cleaner
The Boeing Company
2015 Environment Report2At Boeing, we aspire to be  
the strongest, best and best-  
integrated aerospace-based 
company in the world—for  
today and tomorrow.   Total revenue in 2014: 
$90.8 billion.
  Employs more than 
165,000 people across 
the United States and in more than 65 other countries. 
  For the fifth straight year, 
Boeing was named the No. 1 innovator among 
aerospace and defense 
companies. 
  Boeing has been 
awarded 15,573 patents around the world. About The Boeing Company
  More than 21,000  
suppliers and partners 
around the world. 
  Boeing is the No. 1 
exporter in the United 
States—a position the 
company has held for  
the last decade. 
  Boeing has customers in 
more than 150 countries. 
  Established 11 research 
and development centers, 
16 consortia and 22 joint 
global research centers.
Cover photo: In 2014, the 
Boeing ecoDemonstrator 
787 assessed more 
than 25 technologies 
designed to reduce 
aviation’s fuel use, carbon emissions and 
noise. ecoDemonstrator 
technologies included a Ceramic Matrix 
Composite engine 
nozzle that may enable engines to operate at 
a higher temperature, 
improving fuel efficiency 
while decreasing  
emissions and noise. (Boeing photo)1Contents   
Our Approach 2
Design  9
Innovate  26
Inspire  41
Performance  56
The Boeing Company
2015 Environment ReportEnergy-efficient chillers 
and other improvements 
at the Douglas Center 
office complex have 
helped Boeing’s Long 
Beach site substantially reduce its energy use and 
boost energy efficiency.  
(Boeing photo)2A community garden 
with pollinator habitat 
replaced a former chem -
ical processing facility in Olathe, Kansas, as part  
of a remediation strategy  
that is setting new  
standards for environ-  
mental stewardship.  (Boeing photo)Our Approach
Boeing has a clear strategy and commitment to take 
action to address concerns about climate change  
and the environment. 
This is good for our business, customers, employees and 
Boeing communities around the world. 
Aerospace is an essential part of modern life. It helps drive 
economic growth and prosperity, and it brings the people  
of the world closer together. Because of the tremendous 
benefits aerospace provides, our industry continues to grow, 
and our company with it.
As a company, we understand that taking care of the environ -
ment is crucial to our aerospace and technology leadership. 
Boeing employees are actively working on many fronts to improve the environmental performance of our products  
and services as well as our operations. In sum, Boeing is committed to building a better planet.Jim McNerney  
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, 
The Boeing Company
Ursula English  
Vice President,  
Environment, Health & SafetyLeadership Message
Like our founder Bill Boeing 
and our predecessors who succeeded in making this a great company in its first century, today’s generation of Boeing employees has built a stronger company  for launching our second century. >
34As we approach the start of our 100th year in business, we 
continue to focus not only on building a bigger, better Boeing 
but also on further improving the environmental performance 
of our company and industry—through both our operations 
and our products.
The people of Boeing drove significant progress in these 
areas over the past year. 
At Boeing Commercial Airplanes, we continued to design, 
build and deliver the world’s most fuel-efficient airplanes,  
such as the 787 Dreamliner and future products like the  
737 MAX and 777X. We are working with our customers and global partners to meet aggressive, industry-wide targets to 
improve fleet fuel efficiency while reducing carbon emissions 
and noise. And we remain focused on leading the aero-  
space industry in working with global partners to develop sustainable aviation biofuel around the world.
Boeing Defense, Space & Security also made great strides 
with high-technology products that harness the power of alternative energy sources. Our unmanned Phantom Eye 
airborne system—which is powered by liquid hydrogen and 
produces only water as a byproduct—made additional test flights last year. Boeing launched the first two all-electric–  
propulsion satellites, which use only clean electric power and nonhazardous gas for propulsion. And Spectrolab (part 
of Boeing Defense, Space & Security) is the world’s leading 
supplier of high-efficiency, multijunction solar cells for  
concentrated photovoltaic and spacecraft power systems  
and airborne searchlights.
In facilities worldwide, the people of Boeing are working 
toward a target of zero growth by 2017 in greenhouse 
gas emissions, water intake, hazardous waste generation (normalized to revenue) and solid waste sent to landfills. This 
is a significant goal—and one we are on target to achieve 
even as we increase commercial airplane production rates LEADERSHIP MESSAGE
by 50 percent. We are succeeding by addressing all areas of stewardship, from enhanced recycling in our facilities to 
designing buildings that meet LEED standards.
At our 4.3-million-square-foot (400,000-square-meter)  
737 factory in Renton, Washington, 100 percent of the elec -
tricity comes from renewable sources, just like at our facility  
in North Charleston, South Carolina. Our site in Huntington Beach, California, is saving millions of gallons of potable  
water each year. 
It’s clear that the passion with which Bill Boeing founded our 
company 99 years ago continues to this day. We see it in our people. Everyone at Boeing is committed to further innovation 
to improve the environmental performance of our products, 
our services and our industry. 
As we prepare for our second century of innovation and 
leadership, we do so with a clear view of our planet, our 
responsibility to future generations and the ways in which  
our teams are changing the world.
Jim McNerney  Ursula English
Chairman and Vice President
Chief Executive Officer Environment, Health & Safety
The Boeing Company
Boeing has increased 
commercial aircraft production by more than 50%  while continuing to 
reduce our facilities’ 
environmental footprint.The 787 Dreamliner sets 
new standards for  
environmental perfor -
mance and is the most efficient commercial  
airplane in its class. (Boeing photo)
56ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY  
AND STRATEGY
Through our strategy, Boeing employees continually  
research new and innovative technologies to reduce our 
company’s environmental footprint. 
To support the commercial and defense markets, this 
includes improving operational efficiency for our customers 
with digital tools; using advanced, lightweight materials  
and improved aerodynamics to reduce our products’ 
fuel consumption; developing and commercializing new 
sustainable fuel sources; and researching hybrid, solar and 
electric-powered aircraft. It also means further developing 
new alternative energy systems, such as high-efficiency multijunction solar cells for concentrated photovoltaic and 
spacecraft power systems.
We are also focused on accelerating the environmental 
efficiency of our production facilities and working with 
institutions, governments and stakeholders to build better communities worldwide. In 2015, commercial aircraft will carry an estimated 
9 million passengers and 162,000 tons (147 ,000 
metric tons) of cargo every day, according to the 
International Air Transport Association. And gov -
ernments around the world will make thousands of defense aircraft flights throughout the year. To meet this sustained growth, Boeing’s goal is 
to deliver more value to our customers for less 
cost—while also being the most environmentally progressive aerospace company.  
To accomplish this goal, we are pursuing an environmental 
leadership strategy made up of three tenets: 
  Design-in Environmental Performance
  Innovate for Sustainable Operations
  Inspire Global Collaboration
In addition to providing the most advanced and fuel-efficient family of airplanes and services to our customers, Boeing is committed to:
  Conducting operations in compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and Boeing policies and 
procedures. 
  Preventing pollution by conserving energy and resources, 
recycling, reducing waste and pursuing other source-  
reduction strategies. 
  Continually improving our environmental management system.
  Working together with our stakeholders on appropriate  
policies and activities that promote environmental  
protection and stewardship. Boeing Environmental 
Leadership Strategy:
 Design-in Environmental 
Performance  Innovate for 
Sustainable Operations 
 Inspire Global Collaboration7GOVERNANCE
Our company’s environmental strategy and  
policies are guided by the Environment, Health & 
Safety (EHS) Policy Council, which is composed  
of Boeing’s Executive Council and led by the  
CEO/chairman of the board . 
The Policy Council ensures that strategy and performance 
targets are set and monitored. A team of 20 cross-functional 
executives meets twice monthly to advance our strategy  
and plan.
Reviews by the EHS Policy Council and a functional review 
with the CEO/chairman of the board are conducted twice a year. Progress and status are reported through each of 
these venues, in addition to other internal executive reviews 
across the company. One Policy Council meeting each year 
is focused on setting targets that are aligned with corporate 
long-range business planning; the other meeting each year is focused on detailed planning and reviewing our 
performance.
Environmental initiatives are embedded into every organiza -
tion and function within Boeing. The EHS organization 
contains functions focused on workplace safety and health, environmental performance and regulatory compliance. The 
team also works with our business unit and operational 
leaders to drive an integrated, enterprise-wide strategy that 
includes our products, services, processes and operations. 
This highly integrated and coordinated approach has  
driven continuous improvement in the environmental perfor -
mance of our products and operations around the world.
Manufacturing employees 
in Everett and South 
Carolina reduce waste by  
ensuring a precise amount  
of material is ordered 
to manufacture a part. (Boeing photo)8ABOUT THIS REPORT
This is Boeing’s eighth annual report focusing  
on the company’s environmental activities and 
progress toward our targets. The report and its 
data reflect most of our operations, unless  
otherwise noted. 
This report is intended to highlight our performance  
objectives, results and business relevancy. Whenever  
possible, we provide relevant environmental information  
for the corresponding time period for our operations.  
The data presented in our Performance section undergo an 
Internal Audit review to verify data collection and authentica -
tion processes. Additionally, the data representing our 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions have received a limited 
assurance by an external third-party verifier. This external 
verification ensures that our reported GHG emissions are a 
fair representation for the stated period and boundaries. Our verified GHG emissions include data provided by our air travel 
and car rental preferred suppliers for business travel as well 
as Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions for additional locations beyond those reported in the Performance section. Forward-Looking Statements  
This report contains “forward-looking statements” within the 
meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 
Words such as “may,” “should,” “expects,” “intends,” “projects,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates,” “targets,” “anticipates” and similar 
expressions are used to identify these forward-looking state -
ments. Examples of forward-looking statements include 
statements relating to our future financial condition and operating 
results, as well as any other statement that does not directly relate 
to any historical or current fact. Forward-looking statements are 
based on our current expectations and assumptions, which may 
not prove to be accurate. These statements are not guarantees and are subject to risks, uncertainties and changes in circum -
stances that are difficult to predict. Many factors could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from these forward-  
looking statements. 
Additional information concerning these and other factors can be 
found in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, 
including our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly 
Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. Any 
forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it 
is made, and we assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, 
future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
Since 2012, Boeing’s 
reduction in greenhouse gas emissions at the majority of facilities is equal 
to
 taking 990 cars off 
the road for one year.An employee at Boeing  
subsidiary Spectrolab in  
Sylmar, California, exam -
ines solar cell wafers during the final step of the 
manufacturing process. (Boeing photo)Boeing employees build and deliver the world’s most 
modern and fuel-efficient fleet of commercial airplanes 
and continue to innovate in our defense and space 
products. 
We work with our commercial and defense customers to 
incorporate efficiencies that reduce their fuel use and costs,  
and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. 
As a technology and innovation leader, we are developing 
and testing new technologies that will bring fuel efficiency and 
environmentally progressive innovations to our customers  
and our communities around the world. Design
9Cleaner Products
Boeing Commercial Airplanes   
Commercial aviation is poised for continued growth, as 
technology and economic growth are making air travel 
more accessible to people around the world. Boeing has 
forecast that, to meet passenger demand for air travel that is projected to grow 5 percent annually, the global commer -
cial fleet will grow by nearly 37,000 commercial airplanes over the next 20 years, more than doubling the number of 
airplanes currently in service. 
Yet Boeing understands that commercial aviation also needs  
to grow sustainably. The aviation industry, which the United 
Nations estimates is responsible for about 2 percent of 
global manmade carbon emissions, has set aggressive 
goals for carbon-neutral growth from 2020 and a 50 percent 
reduction in CO
2 emissions in 2050 compared to 2005 levels. 
This is why, to meet the business and environmental goals of our industry, Boeing is providing market-leading fuel-  
efficient airplanes and services.
In aviation, fuel costs, efficiency and profitability are tightly 
linked since jet fuel can account for up to 40 percent of 
airline operating budgets. This is why the aviation industry 
has long been focused on reducing fuel consumption, which also reduces carbon emissions. Since the dawn of the Jet 
Age, airplanes have increased fuel efficiency by 70 percent 
and reduced the noise footprint by 90 percent. 
Birds Do It: Saving 
Energy in Flight Saving 
energy is not an easy 
task; how do the Boeing 
engineers do it? The 
answer is flying above you. Click here to watch 
the video. The 787-10 Dreamliner  
will offer unprecedented 
fuel efficiency: 25 to 30 
percent more than the 
airplanes it replaces.  
(Boeing photo)DESIGN
1011The trend toward greater efficiency will continue as Boeing 
delivers its new generation of airplanes:
  The Dreamliner family is 20 to 30 percent more fuel-  
efficient and reduces CO 2 emissions by 20 to 30 percent 
compared to the airplanes it replaces.
  The 747-8 is 16 percent more fuel-efficient and 30 percent quieter than airplanes it replaces. It is also 29 percent more 
fuel-efficient per trip than its competitor.
  The 737 MAX will be 14 percent more fuel-efficient than 
today’s Next-Generation 737s and 20 percent more 
efficient than the original Next-Generation 737s. 
  The 777X will be the largest and most fuel-efficient 
twin-engine jet in the world. The 777X will be 12 percent 
more fuel-efficient than its competitor due to key  
innovations such as a new composite wing and all-new 
GE9X engines. 
In addition to designing and delivering the world’s most 
fuel-efficient airplane family, Boeing provides services that 
improve gate-to-gate efficiency. Boeing works closely with  
airlines to analyze opportunities for fuel reduction and to develop and implement plans for adjusting operational 
practices to drive optimum efficiency. As examples, Boeing and its subsidiary Jeppesen offer a suite of fuel efficiency 
management solutions and services, including:
  Fuel Dashboard—analyzes fuel efficiency performance  
and identifies and prioritizes opportunities for improving  
fuel efficiency.
  Emissions Reporter—collects and files required European 
Union emission reports.
  Wind Updates & Direct Routes—uses real-time environ-  
mental conditions to optimize flight performance.DESIGN
Start of final assembly  
of the new, fuel-efficient 
737 MAX is planned for 
2015, with first delivery  
in 2017.  
(Boeing photo)12                 Boeing Defense, Space & Security  
Boeing’s Defense, Space & Security business is a vibrant 
center of innovation, and within the walls of our factories  
and offices, we are accelerating improvements in environ -
mental performance. 
Boeing’s all-electric–propulsion satellites, completed in 
December 2014, use only clean electric power and xenon  
(an inert, nonhazardous gas) for propulsion. 
Boeing is testing and using proposed solutions such as 
hexavalent chrome-free primers for its AH-64 Apache 
helicopter and the V-22 Osprey. The new coatings will need to meet strict engineering requirements for the aircraft while 
reducing the use of hazardous chemicals in the manu-  
facturing process.
The aptly named and Navy-led “Green Hornet” team took 
home its third Secretary of the Navy Award for Environmental 
Excellence in the “Weapon System Acquisition, Large 
Program, Individual or Team” category in 2014. The team’s efforts and continued progress with biofuel development, 
noise reduction, hazardous materials management and lower 
emissions inspired Donald Schregardus, deputy assistant secretary of the Navy for the environment, to say, “In a 
nutshell, the Green Hornet team knows what it means to  
be ‘green’ in the best connotation of the term.”
Electric-Propulsion Satellites  
Boeing is building the world’s first all-electric–propulsion 
satellites. The all-electric–propulsion design of the 702SP 
(small platform) satellites gives customers new flexibility  
and capability while reducing weight, which saves on  
launch costs. Boeing’s newest 702 satellite model couples 
proven technology from Boeing’s previous designs with next-generation technology and processes, resulting in  
an affordable, lightweight alternative design to meet  
customer needs.DESIGN
Above: The 702SP, 
designed by Boeing 
Network & Space 
Systems satellite busi -
nesses and Phantom Works, features an all- electric–propulsion 
system and a joint 
configuration for a 
dual-manifest launch. 
(Boeing photo)
Left: Last year, the V-22 Osprey celebrated 25 
years since its first flight. 
It is just one example 
of the success Boeing 
teams are having in find -
ing new ways to make 
Boeing products safer 
and cleaner to build, fly 
and maintain.  
(Boeing photo)The 702SP relies exclusively on xenon for its propulsion 
system and builds on the success of the 702HP (high power) 
spacecraft hybrid propulsion technology, which uses a 
combination of nonhazardous chemical bipropellant and 
xenon-ion propulsion.
Production on the first 702SP satellites began in 2013. The 
first two 702SP satellites were completed in December 2014 
and successfully launched as a pair in a Boeing-patented 
stacked payload configuration on March 1, 2015.
Bill Peterson, 777X  
When the pilot of a Boeing aircraft changes course to avoid 
bad weather, or adjusts an airport approach to save fuel, 
the airplane may be following a flight strategy designed by 
engineer Bill Peterson and his team in Commercial Airplanes 
Environmental Performance. 
“Our focus is on operational efficiency. When an aircraft 
enters into service with a Boeing customer, we want to make 
sure it operates at peak efficiency on every flight, from takeoff to landing,” Peterson said. 
A primary focus now is on implementing technology that will 
enable operational efficiencies on the new 777X.
Peterson and his team are developing 777X environmental 
performance targets for reductions in emissions and com -
munity noise for each phase of flight from departure through 
arrival. Typical targets are defined in a range, such as saving DESIGN
Bill Peterson and his 
team in Commercial 
Airplanes Environmental 
Performance develop 
strategies to improve the 
efficiency and reduce the fuel consumption 
and community noise of 
Boeing aircraft.  
(Boeing photo)
13777X will be the largest,
most fuel- 
efﬁcient  twin-
engine jet in the world.14DESIGN
400 pounds (181 kilograms) to 600 pounds (272 kilograms) of 
CO2 and reducing community noise by 1 to 3 decibels during 
departure and arrival.
A variety of innovative technologies, services and strategies 
are available or in development to assist the 777X and its 
operators achieve environmental performance targets, 
Peterson said. Steps to improve operational efficiency and reduce noise and emissions include:
  Taxiing from the runway to the gate on one engine.
  Receiving continually updated information to fly at the most efficient altitude. 
  Changing course to avoid bad weather. 
  Landing the aircraft in a continuous descent instead of frequently leveling off in a series of steps toward the 
airport.
  Using GPS-based navigation and landing systems 
during arrival to enable the use of a higher, more precise 
approach angle in all weather.
In developing the environmental performance targets, Peterson said his team works closely with Boeing engineers, 
customers and other partners. “We want to know what the airlines and airports are looking for in operational efficiency 
and ensure we meet their needs,” he said.
Boeing customers understand the potential impact of improving 
their fleets’ operational efficiency. “We know from experience 
small improvements in operational efficiency can bring measur -
able benefits,” said a spokesman for Norwegian Air Shuttle. 
“A strategy that can help us reduce miles flown, fuel use and 
emissions is good for our business, the industry and the 
environment.”
The efficiency improvements expected with the 777X and 
other Boeing aircraft are integral to helping the industry meet 
its larger environmental performance targets, Peterson said.                  
The 777X is Boeing’s 
newest family of twin-
aisle airplanes, designed 
to be 12 percent more 
fuel-efficient than its 
competitor.  (Boeing photo)                 
15“The industry’s commitment is carbon-neutral growth for 
aviation after 2020. Every gain in flight efficiency is an impor-
tant step toward that goal.”
Sharon Sofian, F/A-18 “Green Hornet”  
The “Green Hornet” team is living up to its name. Sharon Sofian and representatives from several Boeing 
partners, including the U.S. Navy, began collaborating more 
than 20 years ago on ways to improve the environmental performance of Boeing’s F/A-18 Super Hornet fighter aircraft.
“The ‘Green’ in our team name means we wanted to do 
everything possible to manage the aircraft’s environmental 
impacts,” said Sofian, materials engineer at Boeing’s St. Louis 
site, home of the F/A-18.
“We knew the aircraft was going to be in service for decades 
into the future; we wanted it to be as clean, efficient and safe as we could make it.”
The team accomplished its mission, and then some. Last 
year the F/A-18 won its seventh consecutive environmental 
excellence award from the Chief of Naval Operations and its 
third award from the Secretary of the Navy. 
The improvements that make the F/A-18 Super Hornet 
cleaner, quieter and more energy efficient include:
  A fire suppression system that eliminates Halon, an ozone 
depleter.
  Paint primers used in several applications eliminate hexava -
lent chromium, and other coatings eliminate cadmium.
  Approving the use of sustainable biofuel in a 50/50 blend with jet fuel. 
  New engine technology that reduces community noise.
Sofian said the “Green Hornet” team has remained effective because its attitude is “continuous improvement.” “We’ve never rested after getting an award and said, ‘Oh, we’re done 
now.’ We’re always seeking to make things better.”DESIGN
                 
Sharon Sofian and the 
“Green Hornet” team have 
won numerous awards 
from the U.S. Navy for 
their successful efforts to 
improve the environmental performance of Boeing’s 
F/A-18 Super Hornet 
fighter aircraft.  
(Boeing photo)16DESIGN
Customer Engagement   
Boeing is actively partnering with customers around the world 
to support their environmental goals. 
For example, Alaska Airlines—the sixth-largest carrier in the 
United States—uses more than a million gallons (3.8 million 
liters) of jet fuel every day to operate its all-737 fleet. As part of its commitment to sustainability, Alaska Airlines is investing in 
more fuel-efficient airplanes. Since 2012, Alaska Airlines has 
ordered 37 737 MAX airplanes, which will be 14 percent more 
efficient than today’s Next-Generation 737s and 20 percent 
more efficient than the first Next-Generation 737s delivered.
The airline also works closely with Boeing to improve its 
operational efficiency and reduce fuel consumption.
“Boeing has been very supportive of its airline customers 
and has helped with policy issues and driving initiatives like 
biofuel,” said Jacqueline Drumheller, sustainability manager 
for Alaska Airlines. In 2014, Drumheller talked with Boeing 
employees about how the SeaTac, Washington–based airline is focusing on environmental sustainability.
“When it comes to things like reducing emissions and con -
serving fuel, we rely on Boeing to help us and collaborate.  
We couldn’t do it by ourselves,” she said.
Cleaner Paint  
At Boeing’s Vertical Lift factory in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
efforts are continuing in 2015 to expand the use of chrome-
free anti-corrosion primer paint on H-47 Chinooks. These  
new alternative “aerospace primers” have performed suc -
cessfully thus far in the field since the first Chinook fuselage was painted with them in June 2013. 
Boeing is also planning to expand the use of the new primers 
to international customers with similar configurations as the 
first Chinook previously mentioned.
The same paints are being considered for wider use on the 
Bell Boeing V-22 Ospreys beyond the current configuration, 
which now uses the new chrome-free primers in select areas.                  
Alaska Airlines is invest -
ing in more fuel-efficient 
Boeing airplanes and 
works closely with  
Boeing to improve  
operational efficiency.  (Photo courtesy  
of Alaska Airlines)The 737 MAX will be 14% 
more fuel-efﬁcient than today’s Next-Generation 737 and 20% more efﬁcient 
than the ﬁrst Next-Generation 737s delivered.                 
17DESIGN
More Efficient Flight Operations
Air Traffic Management Efficiency  
Boeing is a leader in developing the technology to improve the 
efficiency of the air traffic system and airplane flight operations. 
With improved air traffic management, pilots are able to make 
changes in speed or route that will reduce fuel consumption, carbon emissions and community noise on each flight.
These operational efficiencies will enable airlines to take 
advantage of new and future airplane capabilities.  
Boeing has helped train airlines and assisted Air Navigation 
Service Providers to certify new operational procedures 
collectively known as Precision Based Navigation, which 
allows an airplane to fly an extremely precise path. As an example, Boeing has worked with numerous airports to certify 
Required Navigation Procedures, enabling shorter paths to a 
landing and savings of between 100 pounds (45.3 kilograms) 
and 400 pounds (181 kilograms) of fuel for every arrival.
In 2014, Boeing also conducted flight trials with a customer to 
incorporate satellite precision systems into airport operations  
to increase the variety of approaches and departures that can be flown. Particularly at airports with multiple runways, some 
procedures will allow aircraft to fly at different glideslopes, 
reducing CO
2 emissions and noise in communities near airports. 
In addition, Boeing is working to enable greater sharing of operational data between airplanes and ground-based systems. This would allow airlines to better communicate 
with ground control while the airplanes are flying. Increasing 
the flow of information benefits trip planning, helps minimize delays and reduces fuel consumption.
Boeing Acquires ETS Aviation  
In 2014 Boeing acquired ETS Aviation, a United Kingdom–
based provider of fuel efficiency management and analytics 
software. When it was acquired, the company’s fuel efficiency solutions supported more than 600 commercial aircraft 
across nearly 900,000 flights annually.                  
With improved air traffic 
management, pilots are 
able to make changes 
that will reduce fuel 
consumption, carbon 
emissions and com -
munity noise. Pictured 
here, an air traffic control 
tower in Toronto, Canada. 
(Dreamtimes photo)18DESIGN
ETS Aviation’s fuel efficiency tools have become part of the 
integrated suite of aviation services marketed as the Boeing 
Edge. These include digital solutions that increase efficiency 
and profitability for aircraft operators by optimizing flight 
operations, maintenance, and crew planning and scheduling. 
One market-leading product in this new portfolio is the Boeing 
Fuel Dashboard, which harnesses operational data to help 
airplane operators drive decisions to help reduce fuel use and 
emissions. Boeing is now providing airlines and corporate 
flight departments with these new tools to monitor fuel 
consumption, identify fuel savings opportunities, and track and report carbon emissions. 
Ian Britchford, Boeing Fuel Dashboard  
Ian Britchford is giving commercial airlines a much clearer 
picture of how their airplanes use fuel in flight, as well as the 
steps they can take to cut fuel consumption and greenhouse gas emissions.
Britchford developed the Boeing Fuel Dashboard, a web-
based application that collects and analyzes a wide variety of 
data on each flight and spots larger trends across an airline’s 
entire fleet. 
The Dashboard is combined in a handheld device with an 
application that can provide key fuel use statistics to the flight crew during preflight briefings. 
“It’s important to analyze both flight and fleet performance 
because improvements in fuel efficiency can be small per flight. 
But added together on all flights each day, the benefits are 
significant,” said Britchford, director of fuel efficiency with the Boeing subsidiary Jeppesen, in Bristol, the United Kingdom.
The Fuel Dashboard monitors and analyzes a wide range of 
parameters in an airline’s operations, including aircraft perfor -
mance data such as speed, altitude, fuel weight and the amount of fuel consumed on the ground during takeoffs, taxiing and other airport operations. The software then compares perfor -
mance data to the flight plan and expected performance.                  
Ian Britchford devel -
oped the Boeing Fuel 
Dashboard, a web-based 
application that is helping 
airlines better understand 
their fuel use and steps they can take to reduce 
consumption and carbon 
emissions.  
(Boeing photo)DESIGN
“The software looks at the big picture and operational trends. 
For example, are we getting the correct altitude to optimize 
fuel efficiency?” Britchford asked. “We want to develop the 
best flight plan and make sure the aircraft follows the plan.”
Based on the experience of airlines currently using the Fuel 
Dashboard, the software has identified improvements in  
fuel efficiency averaging 4 percent, which reduces emissions 
by the same percentage, Britchford said. Additional software 
solutions are in development that will further improve fuel 
efficiency and trim airlines’ operating costs.
“With such a direct link between fuel consumption and 
greenhouse gas emissions, relatively small gains in efficiency 
add up to important steps toward reducing local and global 
emissions,” Britchford said.
New Technology
ecoDemonstrator Program  
The Boeing ecoDemonstrator Program is the company’s 
multiyear effort to accelerate the testing, refinement and use of new technologies and methods that can improve commer -
cial aviation’s efficiency and reduce noise. 
In 2012, the company tested more than 15 technologies 
aboard an American Airlines 737-800. In 2014, Boeing used 
the ecoDemonstrator 787 to test more than 25 new tech -
nologies aimed at improving airlines’ gate-to gate efficiency 
and reducing fuel consumption, emissions and noise through 
every phase of flight. 
Last July, the ecoDemonstrator 787 completed flight tests for 
an acoustic ceramic matrix composite nozzle designed by 
Boeing to reduce weight and noise. These tests were part 
of the FAA Continuous Lower Energy, Emissions, and Noise (CLEEN) program, a competitively bid five-year program with 
costs shared by participants.                                  
In 2014, the ecoDemon -
strator 787 tested more 
than 25 technologies to 
improve aviation’s envi -
ronmental performance. (Boeing photo)
19The Dreamliner family 
reduces  fuel use 
and CO 2 emissions by
20-30% compared 
to the airplanes it replaces.DESIGN
Later in 2014, the ecoDemonstrator 787 evaluated sev -
eral software and connectivity technologies related to 
operational efficiency, remote sensors to reduce wiring, 
and icephobic wing coatings to reduce ice accumulation, 
among other technologies.
Also, in December, the ecoDemonstrator 787 made the 
world’s first flights using a 15 percent blend of “green diesel,”  
a sustainable biofuel that is widely available and used in ground transportation. Boeing is providing data from these 
green diesel flights to support efforts to approve this fuel  
for commercial aviation and help meet our industry’s 
environmental goals.
In 2015, the company has already begun flight tests with 
the third ecoDemonstrator flight-test airplane, a 757. In 
collaboration with NASA and TUI Group, Boeing is focused 
on improving aerodynamic efficiency through innovative technologies that are being tested on the tail and wings. 
With the exception of Boeing proprietary technology, NASA 
knowledge gained in collaboration with Boeing from eco -
Demonstrator research will be publicly available to benefit the industry.
Spectrolab  
Spectrolab , part of Boeing Defense, Space & Security, is 
the world’s leading supplier of high-efficiency multijunction 
solar cells for airborne searchlights and concentrated 
photovoltaic and spacecraft power systems.
                 
A technician at 
Spectrolab inspects  
a section of a solar  
panel that will eventually 
power a satellite.  
(Boeing photo)Big Data for a Better 
Planet Boeing’s eco -
Demonstrator 787 uses more than 140,000 data 
points to help make flying 
more efficient in real time. Click here to watch the 
video. 
20                 
21DESIGN
In 2013, Spectrolab set a new world record by producing 
a solar cell that converted 38.8 percent of solar energy 
into electricity, beating its previous own world record of 
37 percent. The next year, Spectrolab set another record 
and became the first company to produce 4 million gallium 
arsenide-based solar cells for use in space.
To date, Spectrolab’s solar cells have helped power more 
than 600 satellites and interplanetary missions since 1956, 
including the world’s first all-electric–propulsion satellite,  
the Boeing 702SP. The 702SP, which is powered by a  
xenon-ion propulsion system, uses Spectrolab’s solar cells  
in its solar arrays.
Jill Seebergh, BR&T Technical Fellow  
Finding solutions to some of the tough environmental issues 
facing the aerospace industry isn’t easy or fast. But Dr. Jill 
Seebergh and a team of scientists in Boeing’s Chemical Technology Group aren’t daunted by the long lead times in 
research and development. 
“Developing a new technology can take 10 years or longer. 
But if you don’t take the first step and try, then at the end of 
10 years you have nothing. It’s worth the investment of time and resources,” said Seebergh, a Technical Fellow in the 
company group that leads research and development. 
The patience and persistence have paid off. Seebergh’s  
group develops and tests paints, primers and other surface 
coatings, with a focus on nontoxic substances that can replace select chemicals—most notably hexavalent  
chromium, which is widely used to resist corrosion on  
commercial and military aircraft. 
Seebergh said a good success story is the development of 
Boegel, a nontoxic water-based surface treatment used to 
prepare metal surfaces for painting, bonding and sealing. It 
replaced some of the products that contain chromium, and is now used on all Boeing commercial jetliners and many 
military aircraft.Dr. Jill Seebergh sits 
behind small metal 
samples used in the 
laboratory to test inno -
vative aircraft coatings. Seebergh’s team of engineers and scientists 
in Boeing’s Chemical Technology Group are  
developing paints, 
primers and other surface 
coatings with a focus  
on environmentally 
responsible materials. (Boeing photo)DESIGN
The development of Boegel was recognized by Boeing 
leadership with a 2014 Technical Replication Award, which 
underscores the value and importance of giving new tech-  
nology the widest possible application, Seebergh said. 
Boegel does not replace all chromium-containing coatings 
used on aircraft, and research continues throughout the industry to develop effective non-chromate corrosion 
inhibitors and coatings, particularly for interior applications, 
Seebergh added. 
In other research, Boeing is collaborating with NASA and 
other partners for aviation’s benefit to develop cutting-edge environmental technologies. For example, coatings that will 
reduce the buildup of bugs and ice on exterior surfaces  
can reduce drag, weight and energy consumption of an aircraft, which reduces fuel consumption and emissions.
“This is not your everyday paint you’d buy in a store. It takes 
collaboration across Boeing and with industry and university 
partners to develop materials that meet stringent aerospace requirements and can deliver the environmental benefits we 
want,” Seebergh said.
Seebergh said she enjoys the opportunity at Boeing to see  
a new technology through the entire life cycle. “There are  
few companies where you can be involved from the very 
beginning of technology development to its ultimate imple -
mentation on a product. It’s amazingly satisfying.”
                 
Not Your Mother’s 
Ceramics In 2014, Boeing 
successfully flight-tested 
an innovative engine 
nozzle made of ceramic 
composites designed to reduce noise, weight and 
lower fuel use. Click here 
to watch the video. 
Engineer Linda Thomas helps find ways to 
replace select chemicals 
on Boeing aircraft.  
(Boeing photo)
22                 
23DESIGN
Jennifer Holder, ecoDemonstrator Program  
Developing new technology to make Boeing aircraft cleaner, 
quieter and more efficient requires the kind of innovative 
thinking supported by programs like the ecoDemonstrator 
and engineer Jennifer Holder.
“The ecoDemonstrator helps make innovative ideas a reality 
by creating a unique environment where new technology can 
be tested and validated,” said Holder, ecoDemonstrator test 
platform manager. “We enable the innovation itself.”
The ecoDemonstrator Program tests technologies that can 
reduce emissions, reduce noise and improve the operational efficiency and fuel economy of Boeing products.
The program’s test platform in 2015 is a 757; in 2014 a 787 
tested more than 25 promising technologies that could help 
improve the environmental performance of Boeing aircraft.
The ecoDemonstrator accelerates innovation by giving engi -
neers access to flight tests sooner than would be possible 
in the development process. “Engineers can work for years refining and redesigning a new technology with software and 
simulators,” Holder said.
“Getting a chance to test an idea on a flying airplane enables 
someone to perform engineering tasks and other procedures 
you may not otherwise get the opportunity to do.”
Identifying new technologies to test on an ecoDemonstrator 
airplane usually isn’t a problem, Holder said. “Once we announce a new platform is available, we get a lot of  
phone calls.”
Holder sees a close alignment between the ecoDemonstrator 
and Boeing’s core product development strategy. “Our 
strategy is to learn by doing and inspire innovative thinking; this is what brought me to the ecoDemonstrator,” she said. Engineer Jennifer Holder 
is test platform manager 
for the ecoDemonstrator, 
which accelerates 
innovation by evaluating 
new technologies that will reduce emissions and noise and improve the 
efficiency and fuel econ -
omy of Boeing products. (Boeing photo)DESIGN
“I am inspired by the people who come up with amazing 
ideas that benefit the company and the environment. It’s 
great to work with these people day in and day out and be 
able to help make their innovations happen.”
Nieves Lapeña-Rey, Boeing Research & Technology–
Europe  
In researching innovative ways to increase the use of 
environmentally progressive materials on Boeing aircraft, 
Nieves Lapeña-Rey and her team have developed a unique 
sustainable solution inspired by nature.
“We wanted a sustainable material for the sidewall panels 
of the passenger cabin, which have lower mechanical 
requirements than other parts of the airplane,” said Lapeña-
Rey, leader of the Materials and Fuel Cells team at Boeing 
Research & Technology–Europe in Madrid, Spain. 
“We start with the fibers of the flax plant and a natural resin 
as part of a fire-resistant sustainable composite material. It’s 
a novel solution that can reduce the environmental impact of our products,” Lapeña-Rey said.
Despite the environmental advantage, the unique solution 
must still meet stringent requirements for fire resistance, 
thickness, weight, noise reduction and basic mechanical 
performance, Lapeña-Rey said. 
                 
From Plants to Planes 
Boeing is improving 
the environmental 
performance of airplane 
interiors through innova -
tive use of plant-based 
materials. Click here to 
watch the video.  Nieves Lapeña-Rey holds 
an aircraft passenger 
cabin panel made in part 
from the fibers of the flax 
plant. Lapeña-Rey and 
her team in Madrid are developing sustainable 
materials inspired by 
nature for aircraft parts 
and applications.  
(Boeing photo)
24                 
25DESIGN
The finished product is as light as current sidewalls, and 
the flax-based material is easier to recycle than the current 
technology. Other cabin parts, such as floors and carpet, are 
also good candidates for sustainable materials made with 
natural fibers, Lapeña-Rey said. The new sidewall solution is 
being evaluated for use on Boeing commercial aircraft. 
Lapeña-Rey’s team also researches other strategies for 
reducing materials such as hexavalent chromium and cadmium, 
which are commonly used in paints and primers applied to alu -
minum alloys and high-strength steel alloys to resist corrosion.
Another major focus area is fuel cells, which use hydrogen 
and air to generate electricity through an electrochemical 
reaction. The center is exploring fuel cell technology to power 
small, electrical unmanned air vehicles for flights up to  
10 hours long.
The hydrogen used in the fuel cells is generated by using  
the power from ground-based highly efficient solar panels 
to break down the water molecules in an electrolyzer. The process produces no emissions. 
“We started this project many years ago and at the beginning it 
was like a dream,” Lapeña-Rey said. “But now we have devel -
oped environmentally progressive technologies and prototypes that we may see in commercial products in the future.”
Future Flight
Phantom Eye  
Boeing’s high-altitude long-endurance unmanned aircraft, 
Phantom Eye, is designed to stay airborne longer than any other aircraft of its kind in production. Capable of maintaining 
altitude for several days, the propeller-driven, lightweight 
aircraft is fueled by liquid hydrogen, producing only water  
as a byproduct.
The nine test flights conducted since 2012 have proved the 
capacities of the demonstrator aircraft, including the excep -
tional fuel economy of the unique liquid-hydrogen–propulsion Boeing’s Phantom Eye 
unmanned aircraft 
completes an auto-  
nomous flight at  NASA’s Armstrong  
Flight Research Center  at Edwards Air Force 
Base, California.  
(Boeing photo)system. Phantom Eye has flown at altitudes above 53,000 
feet (16,154 meters)—much higher than a typical aircraft’s 
35,000 foot (10,668 meter) average—and has achieved more 
than 34 hours of total flight time to date. 
In January 2014, Phantom Eye received experimental status 
from the U.S. Air Force 412th Operations Group, allowing for  
expanded testing opportunities to bring this capability to market.Boeing worked with federal 
and state agencies and 
local tribes to restore 
Duwamish Waterway 
shoreline and create habitat 
at the historic Plant 2 site in Seattle. Native plants 
and woody debris provide 
refuge and food sources  
for fish and wildlife.  
(Boeing photo)Even as Boeing’s business is growing, we are meeting 
environmental performance targets for our facilities. 
In order to sustain that balance, we need to take advantage of 
the innovative talents of our employees across the company. 
Increasingly, Boeing and its employees are applying energy 
conservation technologies and sustainable materials into new building designs to reduce the amount of water intake and 
waste generated by our facilities. 
In addition, Boeing’s remediation program is focused on 
using innovative approaches in cleanup efforts to ensure the 
protection of human health and the environment, coupled with the use of invaluable input from community members 
and environmental groups. This, combined with the guidance 
of leading environmental scientists and federal and state 
regulatory agencies, has led to great progress in cleaning up 
remediation sites. Boeing also often collaborates with wildlife and conservation organizations to restore habitat for the 
benefit of wildlife and the community.Innovate
26INNOVATE
Cleaner Operations
Renton Site  
Boeing’s 737 production facility in Renton, Washington, now 
uses only renewable electricity, furthering the company’s 
significant use of renewable energy for its facilities. 
Working with Puget Sound Energy (PSE), the Pacific 
Northwest utility company, the 737 manufacturing site 
receives power through hydroelectricity coupled with renew -
able energy credits from wind energy, generated by PSE’s 
Wild Horse Wind Farm in Eastern Washington. Boeing is the 
first company of its size to invest in the new PSE program, which helps the Renton site meet its priorities to use energy 
wisely, even as it further increases production rates and 
begins production of the 737 MAX.
“Boeing is proud to expand our investment in clean, renew -
able energy,” said Beverly Wyse, then the 737 vice president 
and general manager, at the Renton site event in December 
2014. (Wyse currently leads Boeing South Carolina.) “Investing in local wind energy through Puget Sound Energy demon -
strates our commitment to our local community and the environment and mirrors the environmental performance of our new fuel-efficient 737 MAX aircraft.”
The investment in clean energy shrinks the carbon footprint 
at the Renton site and mirrors the investment that Boeing has 
made in the fuel-efficient 737 MAX.
                 
Renewable Energy 
Boeing’s Renton facility’s 
electricity originates from 
100 percent renewable 
energy sources. Click 
here to watch the video. Top: The 737 manufac -
turing line in Renton, 
Washington, where 
renewable energy powers 
the facility.  
(Boeing photo)
Bottom:  The Wild Horse 
Wind Facility near 
Ellensburg, Washington.  
(Boeing photo)
2728INNOVATE
Enhanced Recycling  
Boeing’s extensive employee recycling program has been 
expanded to include composting, the process of recycling 
decomposed organic materials, such as food waste, into 
rich soil. The new program is being deployed at major U.S. 
sites in company cafeterias, offices and manufacturing areas. It’s supported by cities and counties that are increasing the 
number of recycling and waste management suppliers and 
adding local composting processes. 
Boeing’s expanded program reinforces our environmental 
commitment by improving the personal connection employ -
ees make with recycling in their work areas; it also diverts 
waste from landfills or incineration. In company cafeterias, 
employees can compost food waste ranging from apple cores to eggshells, along with compostable paper plates, napkins 
and cups. In office and manufacturing areas, employees’ 
current individual waste containers are being replaced with 
small desktop containers for the little waste that is left for 
landfills. Employees will use centralized station containers  
for recycling and composting. 
To encourage behavioral changes, the enhanced recycling 
program is using a common container color scheme and 
common signage from site to site. It will play a major role  
in helping Boeing to achieve its goal of zero growth in waste 
to landfills from the 2012 baseline by 2017. 
ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year   
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has 
recognized Boeing’s leadership in energy conservation and 
efficiency with an ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year–  
Sustained Excellence award. This is the fifth consecutive 
year that Boeing has been honored by ENERGY STAR for its 
superior energy conservation programs. Boeing’s key 2014 
accomplishments around energy use include the following:
  Participating in the ENERGY STAR Community World  
Tour by developing and teaching an energy curriculum to 650 middle school students.                 
Composting waste,  
otherwise bound for 
landfills, can be used  
to enrich the quality  
of soils.  
(iStock photo)                 
29INNOVATE
  Making energy infrastructure investments to reduce 
energy use by 280,000 MMBtu, including the largest 
single lighting retrofit of more than 5,100 fixtures.
  Contributing funding to 13 community conservation 
projects around the world, such as training at-risk youth 
for energy conservation jobs.
  Using the company’s Partner of the Year and EPA Climate 
Leadership Award recognition to share Boeing’s energy 
conservation message at numerous conferences and with 
key industrial and governmental bodies.
Through the company’s sustained participation with ENERGY STAR, Boeing is reducing America’s greenhouse gas emis -
sions. Award winners were selected from the 757 industrial partners that participate in the ENERGY STAR program.
787 Carbon Fiber Recycling  
As Boeing increases the use of carbon composite materials 
in its commercial airplanes, the company is finding new 
opportunities to repurpose carbon fiber from its factory 
production. This approach is in line with the company’s long history of marketing surplus factory materials to meet the 
company’s environmental and business goals. 
Composite materials make up 50 percent of the primary 
structure of the 787 Dreamliner, including the fuselage and 
wing, helping to make the Dreamliner family 20 to 30 percent more fuel-efficient than the airplanes they replace. In addi -
tion, Boeing’s new 777X will be the largest and most efficient twin-engine jet in the world due in part to the industry’s largest composite wing.
As one example of efforts to repurpose carbon fiber, Boeing 
worked with Russell Athletic to incorporate excess carbon 
fiber from 787 production into a new CarbonTek football 
shoulder pad system. The carbon filaments in aerospace-  
grade fiber provide a higher strength-to-weight ratio and 
greater durability, enabling Russell to offer a shoulder pad 
system that it says is thinner, stronger and about 10 percent 
lighter than competing products. Shown inside a 787 
Dreamliner carbon com -
posite fuselage, Pierre Garçon—a wide receiver 
with a National Football 
League team and a Russell Athletic brand ambassador—wears  the CarbonTek shoulder 
pad system containing  
an exoskeleton made  
of 787 carbon fiber. 
(Boeing image)30INNOVATE
Boeing continues to talk with a range of companies about 
other high-value uses for its excess carbon fiber, helping to 
meet the company’s objectives to reduce materials sent  
to landfills. 
Vince Villa, Energy Conservation, Everett  
If you’re going to be responsible for helping conserve energy 
and reduce waste in the world’s largest building, it helps to 
have the mental outlook and stamina of a marathon runner.
“It’s understanding the big picture and the incremental steps 
you need to take to reach your goal. It takes persistence,” 
said Vince Villa, energy engineer and conservation represen -
tative at Boeing’s largest manufacturing facility, in Everett, 
Washington.
“You know that every day there will be ups and downs and 
obstacles, but you keep pushing forward until you get to the 
finish. It also helps to work alongside teammates who share 
the same goal.”  
Villa, an experienced marathon runner, is pushing forward on 
the challenge of improving energy and resource efficiency at a 
site with over 15 million square feet (1.4 million square meters) 
of space, including the Everett factory, the world’s largest 
building by volume.
Villa said the site made a commitment to energy efficiency 
in 2012 that includes a partnership with a local utility to help 
identify, measure and verify energy efficiency improvements. 
The results have been substantial, including reducing “energy 
intensity” per assembled airplane by more than 20 percent, 
which means the site has been able to increase aircraft 
production while also cutting energy use. 
Villa said conservation projects completed last year will save 
3.5 million kilowatts of electricity annually, which is equal to 
taking 2,683 tons (2,434 metric tons) of CO 2 out of the air. 
Energy efficiency improvements include:                  
Vince Villa is on the 
design team that is 
ensuring that the latest 
in energy-efficient 
technology and resource 
conservation strategies are included in the 
construction of the 
new Composite Wing Center at the Everett, Washington, site. 
Villa leads energy and 
resource conservation 
and waste reduction 
strategy at Boeing’s  largest manufacturing 
facility.  
(Boeing photo)                 
31INNOVATE
  A compressed-air controls and monitoring system that 
optimizes and automates compressed-air operation. 
  LED lighting for office, manufacturing and utility areas and outdoor spaces across the site.
  The new Everett Delivery Center, which is built to LEED Gold standards and includes energy-efficient lighting and 
high-efficiency chillers and boilers.
  New, more energy-efficient chillers that will provide the site 
with chilled water.  
The site’s physical footprint is expanding by more than  
1 million square feet (92,903 square meters) with the construc -
tion underway of the Composite Wing Center, which will build 
the wings for the new 777X, a larger version of the widebody 
aircraft that will enter service in 2020.
“A lot of our lessons learned in energy and resource efficiency 
are being designed into the new wing factory from the start,” 
Villa said. 
“It’s rewarding to know that with the site’s tremendous size, 
something as simple as changing the lights can have a  
huge impact.”
Ashleigh Stewart, Conservation Leader, Philadelphia  
Moving from Boeing’s newest factory—the Dreamliner 
assembly plant in North Charleston, South Carolina—to one 
with a much longer legacy in Ridley Township, Pennsylvania, 
just outside Philadelphia, Ashleigh Stewart sees very different challenges in conserving energy and reducing waste.    
“It’s a different world. In South Carolina we have solar panels 
and energy efficiency designed in to the new buildings. 
Here we have technology from an earlier era,” said Stewart, 
utility and conservation leader at the Philadelphia site, which includes assembly facilities for the V-22 Osprey and H-47 
Chinook helicopter programs.  Ashleigh Stewart is the 
utility and conservation  
leader at Boeing 
Philadelphia. She ex-  
pands and builds on the environmental accom -
plishments of a site that 
features technology from 
an earlier era.  
(Boeing photo)32INNOVATE
Stewart transferred to Philadelphia last September after 
several years of helping lead conservation projects at  
Boeing South Carolina.
One of her approaches is to build on the site’s environmental 
and waste reduction accomplishments, Stewart said. For 
example, the Philadelphia site is one of six at Boeing that sends no solid waste to a landfill. Non-recyclable trash is sent 
to a facility that burns and converts waste into steam energy. 
Stewart’s team is evaluating a different facility and more 
efficient method of burning trash that generates more energy 
from the same amount of material. The site is also imple -
menting “single-stream” recycling that enables employees 
to recycle a variety of materials in a single bin without first 
separating items. 
The site replaced several 1920s- and 1970s-era boilers that 
ran on fuel oil with more energy-efficient natural gas-fired 
boilers. The switch reduced the site’s CO
2 emissions by an 
estimated 14 percent and cut yearly energy bills by $1 million. 
Stewart’s priorities for the coming year include continuing to 
improve overall energy efficiency by: 
  Increasing the use of LED lighting.
  Replacing an annual inspection for leaks in compressed-air hoses with a continual monitoring system. 
  Installing meters to measure and document electricity use throughout the site to help target conservation efforts. 
Stewart also wants to replicate the strategy that worked well in South Carolina of working closely with teams in the com -
pany’s Employee Involvement program. “Our employees are a tremendous resource in generating new ideas, and I can be  
a resource to them in supporting projects,” Stewart said.
“Working closely with people who have a passion for the 
environment inspires all of us to want to do the right thing.”                 
Daylight fills the  
renovated H-47 factory 
in Philadelphia. Using 
more natural light and 
installing more efficient 
boilers have helped the site substantially reduce  
energy use.  
(Boeing photo)                 
33INNOVATE
Matt Mercer, Conservation Leader, Oklahoma City   
Matt Mercer and his team don’t let their successes in reduc -
ing waste and conserving resources stop them from always 
looking ahead at what they can do better.
“It’s a mindset of continuous improvement. When we put our 
recycling program in place, we thought, ‘Why stop there? Let’s see how we can eliminate all of the waste we send 
to landfills’,” said Mercer, environment and safety leader at 
Boeing Oklahoma City.
The site provides services and support to most of the mili -
tary’s large aircraft programs, including Air Force One, the 
nation’s bombers and legacy tankers. The Boeing Oklahoma 
workforce is growing rapidly and expects to expand even 
more over the next two years, Mercer said.   
A big part of improving the site’s waste management has 
been stepping up its recycling program for plastic, aluminum, 
cardboard, electronic waste and other material. Solid waste 
that can’t be recycled is sent to a local facility that burns trash to generate clean electricity. 
Mercer’s team also is exploring opportunities for saving 
energy, such as converting older fluorescent lighting to more 
efficient LED technology. The site is evaluating a major retrofit 
that would either replace or remove 20,000 light bulbs in 6,000 fixtures. The retrofit’s cost would be recovered with the 
help of an incentive program from the local utility.
Mercer is proud of what the site’s environmental accom -
plishments can mean for the local community. “I think the 
community has embraced us and Boeing has embraced Oklahoma. Improving the site’s environmental performance 
will help strengthen that relationship.”  
For Matt Mercer and his 
team at Boeing Oklahoma 
City, an attitude of 
continuous improvement 
drives ongoing successes 
in reducing waste and conserving resources.  
(Boeing photo)34INNOVATE
Matt McCalley, Conservation Leader,  
Boeing South Carolina  
At a site that features several of Boeing’s larger and more 
visible environmental achievements, Matt McCalley looks  
for the smaller, individual actions that will continue driving environmental innovation and progress.
“Employees who do the work every day can spot opportu -
nities to reduce waste or improve a process that might get 
missed if we only focused on the big projects,” said McCalley, 
environmental scientist at Boeing South Carolina. 
“Small actions can add up to substantial improvements 
across the entire site.” 
Environmental thinking helped guide the design and con -
struction of the South Carolina site, which manufactures the 
787 Dreamliner, and has been a driver in ongoing operations 
since the facility opened in 2011. Innovations include 10 acres 
(4 hectares) of solar panels on the roof of the final assembly 
building that help supply the site’s power, solid waste being recycled or reused and not sent to a landfill, and stormwater 
being captured and reused. 
McCalley helps develop the tools and information that 
employees and teams can use in their work areas to conserve 
water and electricity, reduce hazardous waste, and expand the recycling and reuse of trash and other material. “They  
do the work; my job is to help them see the opportunities  
and take action,” McCalley said.
To help employees learn how to spot waste and improve 
efficiency in their work processes, environmental training and “waste hunts” are required for the site’s 300 Employee 
Involvement teams. The focus on continually improving the 
facility’s environmental performance is a natural fit with  
the aircraft rolling off the production line, McCalley said.
“The site that builds the world’s most environmentally  
progressive jetliner should be an environmental leader, too;  
that’s our mindset.”                 
Environmental scientist 
Matt McCalley helps 
develop the tools  
and information that  
employees at Boeing 
South Carolina can  use in their work areas 
to reduce waste and 
conserve water and  
electricity.  
(Boeing photo)              
35INNOVATE
Remediation and Restoration
Lower Duwamish Waterway  
Since 2000, the Lower Duwamish Waterway Group, which  
is made up of Boeing, the City of Seattle, King County  
and the Port of Seattle, has been leading the cleanup and  
restoration of this five-mile (eight-kilometer) stretch of 
industrial waterway south of downtown Seattle, Washington. 
The collective “early action” efforts of the Lower Duwamish 
Waterway Group have reduced polychlorinated biphenyl 
(PCB) risks in the waterway sediment by about 50 percent—
halfway toward the PCB sediment cleanup goal set by the U.S. EPA.
Boeing completed the largest of these early cleanups, 
addressing contamination alongside its Plant 2 location 
that spans one mile (1.6 kilometers) of the Lower Duwamish 
Waterway. Boeing restored the waterway bed with clean sand after removing approximately 265,000 cubic yards 
(202,607 cubic meters) of sediment, which is enough to  
fill approximately 4,000 railcars. Excavated sediment  
was transported by barge to a waterway facility, where it was 
packaged and loaded onto railcars and transported to an EPA-approved landfill. This work was carefully coordinated 
over the course of three years during “construction windows” 
when juvenile salmon were not migrating.
The EPA released its final decision on the Lower Duwamish 
Waterway Superfund cleanup in December 2014. Boeing is working with its Lower Duwamish Waterway Group partners 
on studies to support the design of a remedy.
Many efforts are underway to prevent contamination  
sources from entering the waterway before and after the 
sediment cleanup. Boeing installed state-of-the-art storm-  
water treatment systems at its facilities near the waterway  
as part of this source control strategy. 
Learn more at www.boeing.com/duwamish.Digging Deep  
The sediment around 
Boeing’s Plant 2 site in 
Seattle has a century’s 
worth of stories to tell. 
The story it tells now is one of restoration. Click 
here to watch the video.
 
(Boeing photo)36INNOVATE
Santa Susana  
A former federal government rocket engine test and energy 
research facility located northwest of Los Angeles, California, 
the Santa Susana Field Laboratory has a rich history of 
contributions to the U.S. space program. Since acquiring its 
portion of the 2,850-acre (1,150-hectare) site in 1996, Boeing has made progress with extensive investigation, cleanup and 
restoration efforts to address soil and groundwater contami -
nation and improve stormwater quality.
The transformation from field laboratory to open space is 
underway, with native plants and animals reclaiming most of the previously developed areas of the property. The San 
Fernando Valley Audubon Society, which performs year-round 
bird-banding and owl surveys on the site, has identified  
124 bird species on the site. The Southwestern Herpetologist 
Society studies reptiles and amphibians, and Pollinator 
Partnership scientists assess the abundance and diversity  
of pollinators.
Boeing partners with area schools to support on-site 
student studies, including Oak Park High School, USC, 
UCLA, Moorpark College, Pomona College and Woodbury University. In 2014, Boeing also hosted remediation update 
meetings as well as bus and walking tours for more than 
2,000 community members, elected officials and nonprofit organizations. 
Learn more at www.boeing.com/santasusana.                 
Above: Each year, 
thousands of people visit 
Santa Susana to learn 
more about the site’s 
important place in  
history and experience firsthand its beauty  
and biodiversity.  
(Boeing photo)Left: A team installs 
groundwater monitoring 
wells as part of Boeing’s 
seeps and springs inves -
tigation. Boeing has a network of more than 450 wells to monitor legacy 
contamination in the 
groundwater below the 
Santa Susana property.  
(Boeing photo)INNOVATE
Duwamish Habitat  
Nearly 100 people gathered to celebrate the largest 
habitat restoration on the Lower Duwamish Waterway in 
June 2014. Boeing transformed one mile (1.6 kilometers) 
of former industrial waterfront into a wetland resource 
that improves Puget Sound salmon runs and supports local wildlife. This project would not have been possible 
without the guidance and support of the Natural Resource 
Trustees, including the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the Muckleshoot Indian Tribe. 
Business for Bees  
In 2014, Boeing signed on as a founding member of the 
Pollinator Partnership’s Business for Bees network. This 
group of American businesses supports engagement  
and drives action to benefit pollinators, which fertilize most flowering plants and crops, and are now threatened from a variety of environmental factors. Boeing also works 
with the Pollinator Partnership on various restoration 
projects to ensure that selected plants support bees, birds and butterflies.
37(Boeing photo)
(Boeing photo)38INNOVATE
Santa Susana Habitat  
Santa Susana lies in the heart of a habitat linkage in 
Southern California, a biological life link connecting the 
inland Sierra Madre Mountains to the coastal Santa 
Monica Mountains. The site is home to a diverse range of 
animals, including mountain lions and bobcat, and Boeing’s cleanup will help protect this unique ecosystem. Boeing 
has restored 900 acres (364 hectares) with native plants to 
support the health of the watershed and wildlife habitat.
Wildlife Habitat Council  
The Pollinator Prairie in Olathe, Kansas, and Santa Susana 
in Simi Valley, California, are certified by the Wildlife Habitat 
Council under the Corporate Lands for Learning program. 
The Pollinator Prairie was an urban habitat restoration 
project resulting from a collaborative effort between Boeing, community groups and wildlife organizations. In 2014, 
Boeing and Pollinator Prairie volunteers hosted community 
educational events at the 1.5-acre (0.6-hectare) site.LA Conservation Corps  
Boeing collaborates with the Los Angeles Conservation 
Corps, which provides job skills training and education for inner-city youth and young adults. Together, they have 
created natural biofiltration systems featuring native plants 
at Santa Susana. In 2014, a Corps team added nearly 
3,000 plants to a new bioswale that helps improve storm -
water quality while also benefiting pollinators.(Boeing photo)
(Boeing photo)
(Boeing photo)                 
39INNOVATE
Debbie Taege, Environmental Engineer, Santa Susana   
Debbie Taege can look across tranquil woodlands and 
sandstone bluffs at Boeing’s Santa Susana site in Simi 
Valley, California, and know that nature is hard at work.
“One of the most innovative technologies we use to treat 
stormwater that flows from Santa Susana is a biofilter that harnesses the natural ability of soil and native plants to get 
rid of contaminants,” said Taege, environmental engineer 
and stormwater project leader. 
“It’s a natural ecosystem that not only filters pollutants in 
the water but also creates critical habitat for pollinators and wildlife.”
This biofilter is one of an array of solutions the company 
employs to improve stormwater quality. In Seattle, 
Washington, Boeing installed biofilters, bioswales and 
advanced treatment plants at its facilities along the 
Lower Duwamish Waterway to help prevent waterway 
recontamination.
“We pride ourselves in developing and replicating the 
best technical solutions and sharing what we’ve learned 
with other companies and organizations to help improve 
stormwater quality on a broader scale,” Taege said.
Boeing’s stormwater management strategy for Santa 
Susana combines state-of-the-art technology and natural 
systems. Two treatment plants make use of filters,  
activated carbon and chemicals that are similar to those used by cities to treat drinking water. But active systems 
aren’t suitable for the entire site, Taege said.
“Some watersheds are too large or the terrain is steep and 
rocky. For those locations, passive technologies, including the biofilter, are more effective,” she said.Environmental engineer 
Debbie Taege is on 
the team managing 
the investigation and 
cleanup of Santa Susana. 
Taege leads Boeing’s stormwater management 
strategy for the site, which involves a hybrid 
approach that combines 
state-of-the-art and  
natural processes to 
meet challenging  
regulatory standards.  (Boeing photo)Boeing collaborated with the Los Angeles Conservation 
Corps, Pollinator Partnership and a panel of experts in the 
stormwater field to design a biofiltration system that is  
part stormwater treatment and part wildlife habitat. 
Rainwater runoff collects in a cistern where debris settles 
out before the water is pumped to a basin planted with native vegetation. The basin allows soil particles to settle 
out before the water flows into the adjacent biofilter to be 
treated with a mix of sand, carbon and minerals. 
Pollutants such as organic compounds and metals are 
filtered out, and clean water flows from the biofilter to  
natural drainage channels.
“It’s an amazing natural system. Native plants stabilize  
soil and attract bees and butterflies, while physical, 
chemical and biological processes underground remove 
pollutants,” Taege said.
Helping design more natural systems to treat the site’s 
stormwater has brought Taege a lot of personal satisfaction. “I want to be able to walk up here as a community member 
with my daughter one day and say, ‘Wow, your mom  
helped build that’.”
                
Above: At Santa Susana, 
Boeing designed and 
constructed advanced 
stormwater treatment 
systems that can treat  
up to 2.5 million gallons (9.46 million liters) during 
rain events.  Some of the stormwater 
runoff from through -
out the 2,850-acre (1,150-hectare) site is 
transferred to a pond 
before it is treated at the neighboring system. 
(Boeing photo)
Left:  At Plant 2 in Seattle, 
Washington, Boeing installed a biofiltration 
system to help improve 
the water quality of the 
neighboring Duwamish Waterway. The passive 
system treats an average INNOVATE
40of 84 million gallons  
(318 million liters) of 
stormwater annually.  
(Boeing photo)Boeing works with inter -
national partners on six 
continents to develop and 
commercialize sustainable 
aviation biofuel, which 
reduces life cycle emissions by 50 to 80 percent.  
(Boeing photo)Boeing is leading local and global collaboration, finding  
solutions for complex environmental challenges. 
As an aerospace leader, we support industry-wide opportunities 
to align on ways to improve the environment. For example, to 
support long-term industry growth and reduce CO 2 emissions, 
we are working aggressively with many stakeholders to advance commercialization of sustainable aviation biofuel. We are making 
great progress on a long journey. 
Tapping into employee ideas and enthusiasm is how Boeing 
makes improvements in any area of the business, and it’s no different for the environment. Through strategic investments with 
nonprofits, employee engagement and purposeful advocacy 
efforts, Boeing is creating powerful change through programs 
that work toward environmental protection and preservation in 
communities around the world. 
Also, Boeing works with organizations, institutions, customers 
and governments around the world to drive environmental 
improvements throughout our industry and across the globe.Inspire
4142Global Projects
Australia:  Boeing continues to work with stakeholders across 
industry, government and academia to develop the commer -
cial viability of sustainable aviation biofuels and advanced 
manufacturing technologies that reduce energy and material consumption, while employees across Australia work together 
to increase energy efficiency and reduce environmental impact 
at our facilities. Boeing’s support of the Great Barrier Reef 
Foundation and its Citizen Science project provides opportuni -
ties for people to contribute to the protection and preservation 
of the Reef.
Brazil:  Working with various partners, Boeing is helping to 
promote the establishment of a sustainable aviation biofuel 
industry in Brazil and is conducting research on sustainable 
aviation bio-sourced materials, focusing on Brazilian biodiversity. 
China:  Boeing and Chinese partners, including the 
Commercial Aircraft Corp. of China, are researching tech -
nologies to enable sustainable aviation biofuel and air traffic 
management (ATM) efficiency. The Boeing Tianjin Composites  
facility holds ISO 14001 and LEED certifications.
European Union:  The Boeing Research & Technology Center 
in Madrid supports EU environmentally progressive initiatives, 
including ATM technologies to support the development of  
air traffic operational efficiency and digital aviation services.
Germany: Boeing is a member of the Aviation Initiative for 
Renewable Energy in Germany (aireg), which promotes the 
production and use of sustainable aviation biofuel and other alternative aviation fuels. Boeing supports the Environmental 
Detectives project of the Berlin Community Foundation 
(Bürgerstiftung Berlin), which inspires children to learn about 
nature and environmental protection through observation  
and hands-on activities.
Hong Kong:  Boeing delivered the first 747-8 with performance-  
improved GEnx-2B engines as part of the airplane’s 
Performance Improvement Package to Cathay Pacific Airways.INSPIRE
Boeing leads global 
collaboration around 
complex environmental 
challenges.  
(Thinkstock photo)The 747-8 is 16% more 
fuel-efﬁcient and 30% quieter  than the airplane 
it replaces, and 29% more 
fuel-efﬁcient per tripthan its competitor .43INSPIRE
India:  Boeing and Indian partners are working to create 
high-performance coatings and associated process tech -
nologies to address requirements relating to environmental 
regulation, corrosion and wear. 
Indonesia:  The Nature Conservancy, Boeing and other 
partners are working together to protect and responsibly 
manage 3,088 square miles (800,000 hectares) of forestland 
on the island of Borneo, lowering Indonesia’s carbon  
emissions, while also protecting biodiversity and improving the livelihoods of local communities. 
Italy: The Boeing “Svitati per l’ambiente” (“Let’s talk about 
sustainability”) program fosters young people’s interest in 
sustainable development to raise their awareness of the 
importance of environmental protection.
Japan:  Boeing is working with major airline customers as 
well as Narita Airport and the University of Tokyo to develop 
a roadmap for sustainable aviation biofuel within Japan.
Malaysia:  The Boeing and Hexcel joint venture, Aerospace 
Composites Malaysia Sdn. Bhd., won certification to 
ISO 14001, a recognized standard for environmental 
performance.
Nordic Countries:  Boeing actively supports the Nordic 
Initiative for Sustainable Aviation, an initiative that brings 
together stakeholders throughout the supply chain to 
promote the development of sustainable aviation fuel. 
Russia:  Boeing is supporting airline customers in Russia  
and the Commonwealth of Independent States with solu -
tions aimed at increasing airline efficiency and profitability.
Saudi Arabia: King Abdullah University of Science and 
Technology and Boeing collaborated on research countering the effects of sand and dust on solar energy performance 
in a harsh desert environment in support of the Kingdom of 
Saudi Arabia’s goal of expanding solar energy production.
 Spain:  Boeing Research & Technology–Europe is developing 
environmentally progressive materials for aeronautics,  
including coatings to avoid corrosion of high-strength steel 
alloys, materials from natural sources for aircraft interior 
sidewalls, and next-generation structural composites for  
rapid manufacturing.
The Netherlands:  Boeing and a consortium that includes 
KLM Royal Dutch Airlines are demonstrating sustainable 
aviation biofuel and researching technologies that improve  
air traffic efficiency and reduce carbon and noise emissions. 
Turkey:  Boeing and Istanbul Technical University are working 
together to research and develop an advanced air-filtration 
system to enhance air quality for passengers in commercial 
airplane cabins.
United Arab Emirates:  Boeing, Etihad Airways and the 
Masdar Institute are developing an innovative system using 
saltwater to grow crops for sustainable aviation biofuel. 
United Kingdom:  Boeing supports the Earth Restoration 
Service in sending native tree saplings to be planted in or near 
more than 100 schools to help children learn about ecology 
and to help schools engage with their local communities. 
Boeing has been a member of the UK’s panaviation industry 
group Sustainable Aviation since January 2013. Sustainable Aviation is a long-term strategy that sets out the collective 
approach of UK aviation to tackling the challenge of ensuring  
a sustainable future for our industry.
United States:  Boeing partners with the FAA, customers 
and industry groups to improve operational efficiency and 
modernize air traffic management, collaborates to develop 
sustainable aviation biofuel, invests in renewable energy and 
looks for opportunities to advance carbon fiber recycling.                 INSPIRE
Sustainable Aviation Biofuel
Brazil  
In 2014, Boeing Research & Technology–Brazil (BR&T–Brazil) 
opened a center in Sao José dos Campos, Brazil, furthering 
Boeing’s commitment to the South American nation and 
advancing the company’s international footprint.
At the center, Boeing works with local entities to develop 
technologies that will make a positive impact on the future of aerospace. An area of focus is sustainable aviation biofuel, 
given Brazil’s leadership in the field of renewable energy. 
Other aerospace technologies investigated at the center include advanced air traffic management, remote sensing, 
advanced metals and bio-materials, and support and services 
technologies.
The facility is Boeing’s sixth advanced research center out-  
side the United States, joining centers in Europe, Australia, 
India, China and Russia.
Earlier this year, Boeing and Embraer opened a joint sustain -
able aviation biofuel research center in Sao José dos Campos, 
expanding a company-to-company relationship begun in 2012.
Led by BR&T–Brazil and the Brazilian airplane manufacturer, 
research coordinated through the center focuses on technol -
ogies that address gaps for the establishment of a sustainable 
aviation biofuel supply in Brazil. These include feedstock 
production, techno-economic analysis, economic viability 
studies and processing technologies.
Top: Boeing worked 
closely with California-
based Amyris and 
French oil company 
Total to support the 2014 
approval of farnesane, a new sustainable aviation 
biofuel made from plant 
sugar. Amyris and Total 
are currently producing farnesane using Brazilian 
sugarcane. Shown here,  
a sugarcane farm in Brazil’s São Paulo state.  
(Photo credit: Tadeu Fessel, provided by UNICA [Brazilian 
Sugarcane Industry 
Association])Bottom:  Sustainably  
produced Brazilian sugar -
cane is being used to make a newly approved type  
of aviation biofuel.  
(Photo by Tadeu Fessel, provided by UNICA)
44Sustainable aviation biofuel   
emits 5 0–80% 
less carbon 
compared to fossil fuel
through its life cycle.Boeing is focused on “drop-in” aviation biofuel, which can be 
blended directly with petroleum jet fuel and used without any 
change to airplanes, engines or fueling infrastructure. In 2014 
Boeing supported the approval of farnesane, a sustainable 
aviation biofuel made from plant sugar—currently Brazilian 
sugarcane—by the California-based company Amyris and the French oil company Total.
BR&T–Brazil and entities have worked together for two years 
in a series of workshops that resulted in a landmark contribu -
tion to sustainable aviation biofuel, led by Boeing; Embraer; FAPESP, the research funding agency of the State of Sao Paulo; and Unicamp, the State University of Campinas.
Customer Engagement  
In August, Boeing and South African Airways (SAA )
announced a collaboration with Netherlands-based SkyNRG 
and Sunchem SA to develop an aviation biofuel supply chain from a nicotine-free, energy-rich tobacco plant called Solaris. 
The initiative broadens cooperation between Boeing and 
SAA to develop renewable jet fuel in ways that support South 
Africa’s goals for public health as well as economic and rural 
development.
Test farming of the plants began last year in Limpopo, South 
Africa. Starting in December, large commercial farms and 
small community farms conducted their first harvest of about 
120 acres (50 hectares) of Solaris plants, which are intended 
to be a marketable replacement crop for traditional tobacco. INSPIRE
                  
First Harvest In 2014, 
Boeing and South African 
Airways announced  
plans to turn “energy 
tobacco” into sustainable 
aviation biofuel. Click here to watch the video. Top: Tobacco farm  workers in Marble Hall, 
South Africa, carry 
Solaris seedlings from 
a nursery to the field. 
Boeing and SAA made exciting progress in  Bottom: The energy-rich Solaris tobacco plant  
can be a marketable 
replacement crop for 
traditional tobacco in 
southern Africa.  (Boeing photo)
2014 on a collaboration  to make sustainable  
aviation biofuel in  
southern Africa  
from a new type of 
tobacco plant.  (Sunchem SA photo)
4546INSPIRE
This project also positions SAA to gain a long-term, viable 
domestic fuel supply and improve South Africa’s national 
balance of payments.
Oil from the plant’s seeds may be converted into biofuel 
as early as this year, with a test flight by SAA as soon as 
feasible, with future aviation biofuel production using the entire plant. If test farming in Limpopo is successful,  
the project will be expanded in South Africa and potentially to other countries.
Sustainable aviation biofuel made from Solaris plants can 
reduce life cycle carbon emissions by 50 percent to  
75 percent, ensuring it meets the sustainability threshold  
set by the Roundtable on Sustainable Biomaterials.
UAE Biofuel Collaboration  
Boeing and its partners in the United Arab Emirates 
announced breakthroughs in sustainable aviation biofuel 
development in 2014, using halophytes, desert plants that 
can be irrigated with seawater. The Sustainable Bioenergy Research Consortium (SBRC), affiliated with the Masdar 
Institute of Science and Technology in Abu Dhabi, will soon 
build a demonstration project that could lead to similar biofuel activities in other countries with coastal deserts.
Funded by Boeing, Etihad Airways and Honeywell UOP,  
the SRBC is dedicated to the development and commercial -
ization of sustainable aviation biofuel, which emits 50 percent 
to 80 percent less carbon through its life cycle compared to fossil fuel.
Halophyte seeds contain oil suitable for biofuel production. 
In addition, SBRC researchers found that the entire shrublike 
plant can be turned into biofuel more efficiently than many 
other feedstocks.
In 2015, SBRC scientists will create a test ecosystem by 
planting two crops of halophytes in Abu Dhabi’s sandy soil. Waste seawater from a fish and shrimp farm will nourish 
halophytes that clean the water as they grow. The water                  
Boeing and research 
partners in the United 
Arab Emirates have made 
breakthroughs in sus -
tainable aviation biofuel development, finding that desert plants fed by 
seawater will produce 
biofuel more efficiently 
than other well-known feedstocks. Shown here, 
a halophyte plant that is 
showing great promise  
in sustainable aviation 
biofuel research at 
Masdar Institute of Science and Technology 
in Abu Dhabi. The plant 
name is salicornia.  
(Photo credit: SBRC)                 will next flow into a field of mangroves before returning to 
the ocean. Scientists will use the SBRC research findings to 
convert both plants into aviation biofuel. 
SBRC’s research success, announced at the 2014 World 
Future Energy Summit, continues momentum for aviation’s 
sustainable growth in the UAE, one of the world’s fastest-  
growing air traffic markets.
First “Green Diesel” Flight  
In December 2014, Boeing completed the world’s first flights 
using “green diesel,” a sustainable biofuel that is used in 
ground transportation but had never been used in a jet airplane. The company powered its ecoDemonstrator 787 
flight-test airplane with a blend of 15 percent green diesel 
and 85 percent petroleum jet fuel in the left engine for the first 
flight and in both engines for nine additional test flights.
Boeing provided data from the ecoDemonstrator flights to 
support industry efforts to approve green diesel for com -
mercial aviation and make sustainable aviation biofuel more 
available and more affordable for customers. With production 
capacity of 1.2 billion gallons (4.5 billion liters) in the U.S., 
Europe and Asia, green diesel could rapidly supply as much as 1 percent (800 million gallons, or 3 billion liters, in 2014) of 
global jet fuel demand. 
Sustainable green diesel can be made from vegetable oils, 
waste cooking oil and waste animal fats. Earlier in 2014, 
Boeing announced that its fuel experts discovered that green INSPIRE
Top: Boeing has com -
pleted the world’s first 
flights using “green  
diesel,” a sustainable 
biofuel that is widely 
available and used in ground transportation. 
The company powered 
its ecoDemonstrator 787 
flight-test airplane with a Bottom: The eco- 
Demonstrator 787 
takes off from Boeing 
Field in Seattle using 
green diesel.  
(Boeing photo)blend of 15 percent  green diesel and 85 per -
cent petroleum jet fuel.  Shown here, the eco -
Demonstrator 787 is fueled with a green  diesel blend at Boeing 
Field in Seattle.  
(Boeing photo)
47The world’s ﬁrst “green 
diesel” test ﬂights used 
15% green 
diesel fuel blended 
with 85% petroleum jet fuel.48INSPIRE
diesel is chemically similar to HEFA (hydro-processed esters 
and fatty acids) aviation biofuel that was approved in 2011. 
With a cost that tracks with petroleum diesel, inclusive of U.S. 
government incentives, green diesel approaches price parity 
with petroleum jet fuel. On a life cycle basis, green diesel used 
on the ecoDemonstrator 787 will significantly reduce carbon emissions compared to fossil fuel, according to Finland-based 
Neste Oil, which supplied the fuel.
Junlei Sun, China Biofuel Program  
From his vantage point at Boeing Research & Technology  –  
China, Junlei Sun can see the huge potential of the growing 
Chinese aerospace market and the equally expanding envi -
ronmental challenges facing the industry and the country.
“China’s commercial airline fleet size is projected to triple in 
the next 20 years. Everyone from government to industry 
leaders is concerned about the environment,” said Sun, 
environment research leader in the China center. “There is a 
lot of interest in aviation biofuel as a key enabler to reducing carbon emissions and local pollution.”  
Researching promising feedstocks and helping develop a sus -
tainable Chinese aviation biofuel industry are key focus areas 
for the China center. Their approach is to develop goals and 
strategy and then collaborate with others such as universities and research institutes to carry out the research, Sun said.
They face several big challenges, especially in selecting 
possible biofuel feedstocks. “With such a large population to 
feed, the government has strict rules about land usage. For 
example, farmland and food crops cannot be cultivated  
for aviation biofuel,” Sun said.
A primary feedstock focus is on biomass, which includes agri -
culture or forest residuals such as corn stover and grasses, 
industrial waste from paper mills and municipal solid waste, 
Sun said. China also has a substantial research capability around biomass conversion but lacks experience with using 
biomass for aviation biofuel.                 
Bottom: At Boeing 
Research & Technology–
China, Junlei Sun 
says there is a lot of 
interest in the potential 
of sustainable aviation biofuel to help address 
environmental challenges 
facing the country and 
the industry.  
(Boeing photo)Top: Boeing and 
Commercial Aircraft 
Corp. of China opened 
a demonstration facility 
that will turn waste 
cooking oil, often called “gutter oil” in China, 
into sustainable aviation 
biofuel. Shown here, the China-U.S. Aviation Biofuel Pilot Project in 
Hangzhou, China, will 
clean contaminants 
from gutter oil and con -
vert it into sustainable 
aviation biofuel.  
(Boeing photo)                 
49“This is where Boeing’s collaboration is so vital. With our 
deep understanding of aviation biofuel we can help guide the 
research,” Sun said.  
Another promising feedstock is “gutter oil,” which is waste 
cooking oil from restaurants and catering facilities that needs 
to go through a cleaning process before conversion into bio -
fuel. Boeing is collaborating with Commercial Aircraft Corp. of 
China (COMAC) on a demonstration facility that is assessing 
the technical and economic viability of processing gutter oil  
as a larger-scale feedstock for aviation biofuel. 
Sun finds the collaboration on new technology very rewarding. 
“The process to figure out the challenges and overcome 
technical difficulties is amazing. What I do benefits the  
company, our stakeholders and the people of China. That  
is the most satisfying part for me.”
Other Projects 
Boeing South Carolina Wetlands  
In South Carolina, Boeing is working a comprehensive wet -
lands mitigation plan to preserve and enhance about 4,000 
acres (1,600 hectares) of land. The plan includes more than 
2,000 acres (800 hectares) of wetlands on three separate 
tracts near the Francis Marion National Forest in the South 
Carolina Lowcountry.
Boeing worked with several federal, state and local agencies 
and conservation organizations to identify the tracts for pres -
ervation, which achieves conservation goals of regional and national significance. As a result of the plan’s approval, there 
will be a substantial increase in public land, public access and protection of land, water quality and several rare, threatened 
and endangered wildlife species.
The approved plan is part of the permitting process for the 
468 acres (190 hectares) of land in North Charleston that 
Boeing announced in December 2013 it will lease from the state of South Carolina to protect it from potential future 
growth. Included in that leased property are 153 acres  INSPIRE
                 
Many rare, threatened 
or endangered species, 
such as the red- 
cockaded woodpecker, 
will benefit from the 
preservation of approx -
imately 4,000 acres 
(1,600 hectares) near the Francis Marion National 
Forest as part of Boeing 
South Carolina’s wet -
lands mitigation proposal approved July 10, 2014. 
(Lowcountry Open Land Trust photo)50INSPIRE
(62 hectares) of wetlands that date to the property’s use  
as a phosphate mine in the late 19th century.
Boeing funded the purchase of one tract by Lowcountry  
Open Land Trust.  Lowcountry Open Land Trust will hold  
the property for up to five years and then transfer it to the 
South Carolina Department of Natural Resources for long-term ownership and management. Boeing also funded  
the purchase of the other two tracts by The Open Space Institute and The Nature Conservancy. The Open Space 
Institute and The Nature Conservancy will hold the property 
for up to five years and then transfer it to the U.S. Forest Service for long-term ownership and management as part 
of the Francis Marion National Forest.
Michael Yamashita, Supplier Quality Team Leader   
From his office in Nagoya, Japan, Michael Yamashita 
helps a global network of key Boeing partners work with the company’s engineering and environmental experts to 
understand their role in building cleaner, more environmen -
tally progressive aircraft.  
“Major sections of Boeing products are built by our 
Japanese partners. They are critical in our strategy to innovate and improve the environmental performance of our products,” 
said Yamashita, a Supplier Quality specialist who leads a 
team that works with Boeing partners throughout Japan. 
More than 70 Japanese companies, including the nation’s 
leading manufacturers, supply parts or build components for most Boeing aircraft models. Yamashita ensures the 
partners’ special processes, such as those involving chemi -
cals or hazardous materials, comply with Boeing standards.
Yamashita began a series of meetings and discussions with 
major partners several years ago to create a bridge between 
Boeing and its partners. They review new research and 
changing regulations covering the use of materials such as hexavalent chromium, used in most surface coatings such 
as paints and primers to prevent corrosion.                 
Michael Yamashita helps  
Boeing partners in Japan, 
including several of the 
country’s largest manu -
facturers, work with the company’s engineering and environmental experts to understand their role in building 
cleaner, more environ -
mentally progressive aircraft.   
(Boeing photo)A growing number of countries have implemented or are 
considering restrictions or bans on chromium’s continued 
use. Boeing and other aerospace companies are hard at 
work researching and developing environmentally responsible 
chromium replacements that meet the stringent aerospace 
requirements.   
“We want our partners to understand how the use of new, 
cleaner materials may affect their production systems and 
processes,” Yamashita said. “There is a lot of partner interest 
in new materials and processes that likely will be required on 
future generations of our airplanes.”
Earlier this year, representatives from six Japanese partners 
visited the state-of-the-art surface treatment facility at Boeing 
in Portland, Oregon. Yamashita said the partners see the 
Portland site as a benchmark for their own new or expanding 
facilities. 
The Japanese partners also are interested in other Boeing 
environmental and safety best practices around conserving energy, reducing emissions, managing solid waste and 
handling chemicals, Yamashita said. 
“We are having open dialogues and discussion about 
improving the environmental performance of Boeing aircraft. 
It’s promoting closer collaboration and strengthening the relationship with our partners, which is very gratifying.”                 
51Sanjeet Dangi, Safety and Environment Leader,  
Hindan Air Force Base, India  
Sanjeet Dangi can see firsthand how a commitment to 
protecting the environment can make a difference at a  
major construction project with one of Boeing’s international partners.
“We have zero tolerance at our site for air pollution, which 
means we carefully manage the use of material like con -
crete,” said Dangi, safety and environment leader at the C-17 Globemaster construction project at the Hindan Air 
Force Base near New Delhi.
“Air Force officials have told us they are very pleased with 
Boeing’s management of the project.”
Boeing is the prime contractor on the project to build the 
infrastructure that will support the Indian Air Force’s fleet 
of 10 C-17 Globemaster III transport aircraft. Dangi said 
Boeing’s environmental plan for the project includes steps  
to protect the quality of the air, water and land and to 
reduce noise.
“One of our first projects was to replace a number of trees 
that were cut down to clear the site,” Dangi said. “Project 
officials and their families all came out and helped plant 200 
saplings around the property.”
Other steps to protect the environment include:
  Concrete is stored in silos for easier maintenance and 
dust control, including frequent monitoring of particulates 
and air quality.
  Water is frequently sprayed on the site’s road to  
control dust.INSPIRE
                 
With the help of Sanjeet 
Dangi, Boeing is demon -
strating its environmental stewardship by taking 
steps to protect the air, 
water and land at a major construction project at 
Hindan Air Force Base  
in India.  
(Boeing photo)  Water runoff is captured in holding tanks where sediment, 
such as cement particles, is separated out and hauled 
away by vendors for correct disposal.
  Drinking water is treated with reverse osmosis to filter out 
impurities.
  Non-potable wastewater is captured and reused in restrooms and in landscape watering.
  All equipment purchased or leased for the site meets government noise standards. 
  Biomedical and other hazardous waste is collected by vendors for proper disposal.
  A “Go Green” initiative is looking for ways to reduce diesel fuel use in site vehicles.
The commitment to protect the environment is shared by employees throughout the project, Dangi said. “On World 
Environment Day, June 5, managers and employees take 
an oath and recommit ourselves to do everything possible to protect the environment for Boeing, our country and the 
planet,” he said.
“I am very proud of our efforts here; small steps add up to a 
big contribution for future generations.”
52INSPIRE
Industry Collaboration
Working Together for Global Solutions  
Boeing works closely with industry groups and govern-  
ments around the globe on steps to reduce greenhouse  
gas emissions.
The Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Reporting Guidance was  
released in 2014 by the International Aerospace Environmental 
Group, an international coalition of aircraft manufacturers and industry suppliers. Boeing is a founding member. New 
voluntary guidelines on measuring and reporting emissions 
are a good example of global collaboration on a complex environmental challenge.
The document outlines a consensus standard for aerospace 
industry companies on how to report their direct emissions 
as well as indirect emissions when linked to purchased 
energy and business travel. Once implemented, the standard 
will improve efficiency by eliminating the need for each com -
pany to develop its own system and promote consistency in 
GHG accounting across the industry.
Boeing also is working with industry stakeholders to 
support a global sectoral approach to reducing emissions 
that is being developed by the International Civil Aviation 
Organization (ICAO) , a United Nations organization. ICAO’s 
plan includes a CO
2 standard for aircraft, modernization of 
air traffic management systems to improve fuel efficiency 
for all airplanes flying, commercialization of sustainable 
alternative fuels, and a market-based measure mechanism 
to cut emissions. 
The efforts aim to achieve carbon-neutral growth across 
commercial aviation from 2020 with continued efforts to 
reduce the industry’s environmental footprint.                 
Boeing volunteers are an 
important part of the suc -
cess on many community projects for Earth Day 
and World Environment 
Day around the globe. (Boeing photo)Employee Engagement
EI Teams/Energy Conservation  
Employee Involvement (EI) teams in Everett, Washington,  
and St. Louis, Missouri, are leading efforts to light Boeing  
with rapidly evolving LED technology. 
The Everett EI team is composed of carpenters, plumbers, 
electricians and heating, ventilation and air-conditioning 
technicians who maintain underground corridors that supply manufacturing buildings with utilities. The lights are kept on 
constantly, and before switching to LEDs, they frequently 
burned out. After quantifying the return on investment in kilowatt-hours per year and dollars, the lights were upgraded 
to LEDs in the tunnels beneath five buildings. In addition to 
improving employee safety and job efficiency, benefits include 
280,000 kilowatt-hours per year in savings, improved light 
distribution and intensity, reduced maintenance cycles and improved ease of installation. 
In St. Louis, the “Energy Stars” EI team replaced a parking 
lot’s high-intensity discharge lamps with LEDs. The new lights 
improved parking lot visibility for employees who work late, so 
there are safety and security benefits in addition to a nearly 60 percent decrease in energy costs. Another St. Louis EI team, 
a group of electricians, installed LEDs in nearly inaccessible, 
high-maintenance settings such as the site’s polysonic wind 
tunnel. Affected by the vibration of the wind-tunnel testing, 
the lights needed to be replaced frequently. Once LEDs were installed, the issues ceased.
                 
53Crystal Frost, Employee Environmental Engagement 
Program Leader  
Crystal Frost knows that some of the best ideas for reducing waste and conserving resources come from the 
employees who work every day in Boeing’s factories and 
offices. And she is making it easier to channel employee creativity and passion for the environment into workplace 
actions that can make a difference. 
“I want to help break down the barriers that might prevent 
an employee from driving changes in the workplace,” said 
Frost, employee environmental engagement program leader. “We develop programs and tools so all employees under -
stand how they can take action to help Boeing improve its environmental performance.”
The programs that Frost creates focus employee engage -
ment on the company’s environmental goals. For example, 
this year Boeing is expanding an enhanced recycling 
program that includes composting cafeteria waste. 
“It’s a specific behavior we can help address and a key one 
that employees identify with the environment. When we 
have strong fundamental projects like recycling, it builds confidence in our environmental strategy,” Frost said.
The first step in developing tools and eliminating possible 
barriers to environmental engagement is listening to  
employees, Frost said. “People who work in our factories and offices see the challenges and possibilities every day;  
I need and value their input and ideas.”
Frost works closely with teams in the company’s Employee 
Involvement program and with Green Teams, which are 
made up of volunteers dedicated to environmental projects.
Resources to support environmental activities are available 
on a central website. They include training and tools that 
help employees understand the environmental impacts of their work, and how to make improvements. INSPIRE
                 
Crystal Frost is helping 
Boeing employees under -
stand how they can get engaged and take action 
to help the company 
improve its environmental performance.  
(Boeing photo)
 Employees create and drive a variety of environmental 
activities, such as reducing the use of hazardous material and 
solid waste, conserving water and electricity, and improving 
efficiency and reducing waste in numerous work processes. 
Major environmental events, such as Earth Day and World 
Environment Day, generate hundreds of projects supported by thousands of employees at Boeing sites around the globe.
“That’s what I find so meaningful about my work,” Frost said. 
“Engaging employees and encouraging sustainable behavior 
at a company the size of Boeing can have a significant impact 
around the world. It keeps me energized.”54Building Better Communities
Charitable Investments   
As a committed, responsible environmental leader, we work 
with organizations, customers and communities to bring 
about fresh approaches toward environmental education, 
preservation and conservation. For three years, a Boeing-sponsored project known as “Seed Saving and Sustainable 
Energy Partnership in East Bali” has been increasing the 
capacity of farmers in Bali by providing the knowledge and 
tools necessary to organically grow and preserve plant seeds 
sustainably. Working with the IDEP Foundation in Indonesia, the farmers are also instructed in packaging, marketing and 
selling these seeds, enhancing their local economy.
In Germany, Boeing and the Berlin Community Foundation 
(Bürgerstiftung Berlin) aim to spark and nurture childhood 
curiosity about nature with the Environmental Detectives  
project, which allows children to experience nature directly 
and to learn about environmental protection through 
hands-on activities.
Boeing and the nonprofit Engineers Without Borders-USA 
(EWB-USA) have worked together since 2008 to support EWB-USA professional and university student chapters as 
they solve critical community problems—such as access to 
water—through low-cost, small-scale engineering projects 
that improve basic quality of life. In 2014 Boeing supported 
55 projects in 24 countries, positively affecting the lives of 322,500 people. INSPIRE
Since 2012, Boeing has 
supported a project known  
as “Saving Indigenous Plants–Seed Saving 
Partnership with Bangli 
Farmers” through the IDEP Selaras Alam Foundation. The foun -
dation works with local 
farmers to educate and 
train them in renewable 
farming techniques for 
long-term sustainability.  
(Boeing photo)In 2014, Boeing contributed 
$71 million in charitable donations  to support 
various causes, including the environment.INSPIRE
Beyond the contributions of our company, Boeing employees 
use their passion for the environment to improve the places 
where we live and work. Last year, Boeing contributed  
$71 million in charitable donations to support various causes, including the environment. In South Carolina, the Employees 
Community Fund of Boeing is funding an environmental education program through the Friends of Coastal South 
Carolina for elementary and middle school students and their 
teachers. Through hands-on learning programs, students step out of the classroom and into nature, providing a 
real-world connection to subjects such as math, science and 
English. Additionally, teachers are provided materials that 
reinforce lessons and stewardship projects to instill a lifelong 
ethic of conservation and environmental stewardship.
To read other stories of how Boeing is building better  
communities worldwide, read our Global Corporate 
Citizenship report.
Earth Day and World Environment Day  
While driving environmental performance doesn’t end on 
Earth Day and World Environment Day, both annual events 
are an opportunity for Boeing employees to celebrate the company’s ongoing commitment to the environment and to 
build a better planet. 
Last June, in support of World Environment Day, Boeing 
sites around the world participated in activities that ranged 
from a tree planting in the United Kingdom to a beach cleanup and relocation of turtle eggs in Dubai, United  
Arab Emirates.
In Japan, a dozen students from Tokyo University and 20 
more from other universities joined Boeing Japan employees 
for a discussion on aviation, the environment and the eco -
Demonstrator Program.
Across the globe, employees participated in various Earth 
Day efforts. As part of Earth Day 2014, more than 300 
Boeing volunteers at 10 sites along the Duwamish Waterway in Washington state improved more than 95,000 square feet 
(8,800 square meters) of river banks, parks and urban forest -
land. Volunteers also helped plant more than 875 native trees and shrubs.
At one of the locations along the Duwamish in Tukwila, 
Washington, a group of 25 Boeing volunteers pulled invasive weeds and placed mulch to reduce weed growth and help 
retain water for new plants. The cleanup and restoration gives 
native plants the chance to flourish in an area that was once 
overrun by blackberry bushes. 
Volunteers from Boeing in the United Kingdom worked with 
Earth Restoration Service to plant tree saplings and help 
schoolchildren clear an overgrown conservation area.
In Heath, Ohio, employees collected eyeglasses and clothes 
for the community and cell phones for active-duty military 
members and veterans. During the drives, Boeing employees 
donated 87 pairs of eyeglasses, 438 articles of clothing,  
25 pairs of shoes and 49 cell phones to be recycled for  
others to reuse.
Several Boeing sites participated in “E-Waste” programs, 
including Houston, Texas, where employees recycled more 
than 500 pounds (225 kilograms) of non-Boeing computer 
towers, printers, cords and computer monitors.
55In 2014, Boeing helped 
322,000 people  
improve their lives through 
partnerships with Engineers 
Without Borders.56South Carolina employees 
recycle packaging material 
to support the Boeing com -
mitment to zero absolute growth of waste to landfill. 
(Boeing photo)Performance
Boeing’s strategy is to become the most environ-  
mentally progressive aerospace company. 
To get there requires the hard work and dedication of all 
our team members, along with the innovation and tech-  
nology Boeing has brought to the aerospace industry  
since its inception. 
We are committed to zero absolute growth from  
our 2012 baseline in greenhouse gas emissions, solid  
waste to landfill and water intake; and zero growth  
in hazardous waste generation (normalized to revenue) 
through 2017.57In 2012, after successfully achieving our first set of environ -
mental performance targets, Boeing established a set of 
targets that would hold the gains we had achieved in the 
first round during a period of substantial growth in produc -
tion. This set of targets aim to keep our 2017 greenhouse gas emissions, solid waste to landfill and water intake at the same levels on an absolute basis to 2012. Additionally, 
hazardous waste generation, which is even more closely 
tied to production, would remain level with 2012 on a revenue-adjusted basis. 
These are big goals that require continued, aggressive 
investment in our facilities, tools and processes combined 
with our teams’ relentless focus on improved environmental 
performance. 
The graphs and charts in this section are labeled with 
information rounded to the nearest decimal place and reflect the environmental performance of the majority of 
Boeing facilities, calculated from a baseline of 2012 values. 
However, some slight variation in the display of the data may 
occur in the appearance of some graphs, created for the 
purpose of visual presentations.
Additionally, each chart is represented by its own data set 
that is described in the accompanying footnotes.PERFORMANCE
     
 2012 2013 2014 % change *
Revenue
(U.S. dollars  in millions)  81,698 86,623 90,762
Delive ries 
 745 812 902
Employment
(year-end) 174,429 168,421 165,529
GHG Emissions
(in millions of metric tons) 1.30 1.30 1.26 -3.2%
Hazardou s Wa ste
(in hundreds  of U.S. po unds /$Million) 2.09 2.12 1.92 -8.0%
Water Inta ke
(in billions of U.S. gallon s) 1.88 1.79 1.75 -6.8%
Solid Wa ste to Landﬁll
(in millions of U.S. po unds ) 45.59 45.58 45.52 -0.2%
Environmental  Fines
(U.S. dollars  in thousands ) 78.50 6.55 40.5  
Summa ry of Environmenta l and Business  Performanc e in 2014
*Percent change  since 2012 values is reported as absolute with the ex ception of Hazardous Waste, 
 which is reported as revenue  adjust ed.
GHG Emissions  3.2%
Water Intake  6.8%2014 Environmental Performanc e–
Data Representative of the Majority of Boeing Facilities
(Percent Performance to 2012 Baseline)
80859095100105110
Since 2012, Boeing has reduced:
*0% absolute growt h—water intake, GHG emissions and solid waste to landﬁll; 
  0% revenue-adjusted growt h—hazardous waste generation
†Normalized to revenueSolid Waste to Landﬁll  0.2%
Hazardous Waste Generation†  8.0%2012 2013 2014 2017Performance Target: 
0% growth by 2017*
See Appendix for Performance Summary footnote.58PERFORMANCE
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Climate change is a serious environmental challenge that 
requires aggressive, credible action, and our new targets reflect that. An assessment of the environmental footprint 
across Boeing’s value chain—including our greenhouse 
gas emissions profile—showed that the greatest sources of greenhouse gas emissions for our industry are our products 
in use, followed by the supply chain and our company 
operations. We are working to design and build more fuel-  
efficient products and improve airlines’ operational efficiency to reduce emissions. We lead the industry on research and creation of sustainable aviation biofuel, and more than  
75 percent of our commercial research and development  funding supports greater efficiency and environmental performance of our products. 
In 2013, we expanded our greenhouse gas target beyond 
CO
2 (carbon dioxide) to the internationally recognized 
CO2-e (carbon dioxide equivalence) standard by including 
methane and nitrogen dioxide. Our goal is to maintain our 
greenhouse gas emissions at or below 2012 levels, on an 
absolute basis, by 2017. 
In 2014, Boeing’s greenhouse gas emissions were  
1.39 million tons (1.26 million metric tons), a reduction of  
3.2 percent on an absolute basis from the 2012 baseline. 
Water
We continue to make progress with water-reduction efforts 
through alternative production methods, treatment technol -
ogies, water recycling solutions and employee awareness 
training on water management. As of 2014, we have cut our 
water intake by 6.8 percent from the 2012 baseline.                  See Appendix for GHG Emissions footnote.
See Appendix for Water Intake footnote.
Since our baseline year 
of 2012, Boeing has saved enough water to ﬁll 
337 Olympic-size 
swimming pools.  GHG Em ission s  3.2%
Water Intake  6.8%2014 Environmental  Performanc e: 
Greenhouse  Gas Emissions  and Wa ter Inta ke–
Data Representati ve of the Ma jority of Boeing  Facilitie s
(Percent Performanc e to 2012 Baseline )
80859095100105110
Since 2012, Boein g has re duce d:
*0% absolute growth—water intake, GHG emission s and solid wa ste to landﬁll ; 
  0% rev enue -adjus ted growth—hazardous  waste genera tion2012 2013 2014 2017Performanc e Target: 
0% growth by 20 17*                 
59Waste
Solid Waste  
Boeing measures nonhazardous solid waste generated  
by our operations. In 2014, Boeing sent 45.52 million 
pounds (20.65 million kilograms) of solid waste to landfills,  
a 0.2 percent reduction from the baseline set in 2012.  
Waste is diverted from landfills through a combination of reducing, reusing, recycling, composting and energy 
recovery programs. 
In 2014, Boeing had six zero-waste-to-landfill sites:  
El Segundo, California; Long Beach, California; Charleston, 
South Carolina; Huntsville, Alabama; Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania; and Salt Lake City, Utah. Boeing defines  
“zero waste to landfill” to include, at a minimum, all solid waste generated by operations. It does not include  
hazardous waste, which is handled in accordance with 
applicable regulations.
Hazardous Waste  
In 2014, we reduced the amount of hazardous waste Boeing 
generates (on a revenue-adjusted basis) by 8 percent from the baseline set in 2012. Building on this demonstrated 
performance, we are committed that our hazardous waste 
generation will not grow at a rate more than the rate at 
which our business is expanding, by the end of 2017. 
To meet our commitment of zero revenue-adjusted growth 
by the end of 2017, we are implementing numerous projects 
throughout the company to reduce the amount of hazard -
ous waste that we generate.PERFORMANCE
See Appendix for Solid Waste to Landfill footnote.
See Appendix for Hazardous Waste Generation footnote.
Recycling tons of  
bubble wrap collected 
each month is one way 
the St. Louis site is  
significantly reducing  
the amount of solid  waste sent to landfills.  
(Boeing photo)
2014 Environmental  Performanc e: 
Solid Wa ste to Landﬁl l and Hazardou s Wa ste Generation –
Data Representati ve of the Ma jority of Boeing  Facilitie s
(Percent Performanc e to 2012 Baseline )
80859095100105110
*0% absolute growth—water intake, GHG emission s and solid wa ste to landﬁll ; 
  0% rev enue -adjus ted growth—hazardous  waste genera tion
†Normali zed to rev enue2012 2013 2014 2017
Solid Wa ste to Landﬁll (Absolut e)   0.2%
Hazardous Wa ste Genera tion (Normalized)†   8.0%Since 2012, Boein g has re duce d:Performanc e Target: 
0% growth by 20 17*United Kingdom  
Boeing participates in the Carbon Reduction Commitment 
Energy Efficiency Scheme (CRC Scheme), under the U.K. 
Department of Energy and Climate Change, a mandatory 
emissions trading scheme aimed at reducing CO 2 emissions 
in the United Kingdom. For the reporting period April 1, 2013, through March 31, 2014, CRC-regulated emissions were 
5,399 tons (4,900 metric tons) of CO
2. By December 2015, 
Boeing will comply with the Energy Savings Opportunity 
Scheme Regulations 2014.
United States and Canada  
Boeing reports to both the U.S. Toxic Release Inventory as 
well as Canada’s National Pollutant Release Inventory, an inventory of pollutant releases, off-site disposal and treatment, 
on an annual basis. In 2013, Boeing had a total release of 
440,000 pounds (199,580 kilograms) and total transfers  
of 3.40 million pounds (1.54 million kilograms). Total release and transfers for 2013 equaled 3.84 million pounds (1.74 mil-lion kilograms). Data for 2014 will be submitted to the U.S. and  
Canadian governments after the publication of this report,  
and will be included in next year’s report. Data for 2007 through 2012 are available in the 2014 Environment Report .PERFORMANCE
Global Reporting
With corporate offices in Chicago, Boeing employs more 
than 168,000 people across the United States and in  
more than 65 countries. This represents one of the most 
diverse, talented and innovative workforces anywhere.  
Each year we submit environmental data to various  
regulatory agencies and voluntary disclosure organizations. A summary of our previous disclosures can be found in  
the 2014 Environment Report. 
Australia  
Boeing Australia represents the company’s largest opera -
tional footprint outside the United States. In 2014, Boeing 
Australia filed its sixth National Greenhouse and Energy 
Report, detailing its greenhouse gas emissions, energy con -
sumption and energy production data. Boeing Australia’s CO
2-e emissions were calculated at 50,197 tons (45,500 
metric tons) and energy use at 77,208,889 kilowatt-hours 
(277,000 gigajoules). Overall, Boeing Australia has achieved 
large reductions in CO 2-e emissions since the first reporting 
period in 2008–2009, while simultaneously increasing 
production rates of high-end aerostructure components.
                 
Hydrogen + Oxygen = 
Sustainable Flight Fuel cell 
technologies being explored 
by Boeing use a fusion of 
hydrogen and oxygen to help 
power aircraft electricity, produce heat and provide 
clean water. Click here to 
watch the video. 
60See Appendix for Global Reporting footnotes.                 
61PERFORMANCE
                 Greenhouse Gas Corporate Inventory
Boeing reports our corporate greenhouse gas emissions 
to the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) annually. Emissions fall into three categories: Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 
3 (business travel only), and go beyond our operational 
targets. Scope 2 emissions comprise the largest segment of our greenhouse gas emissions, followed by the direct 
emissions of our facilities and then our business travel. 
Scope 1 emissions were 684,535 tons (621,000 metric 
tons) and cover our emissions from combustion of natural 
gas, fuel oil, the jet fuel used in our flight-test programs and the fugitive emissions from refrigerant leaks and chemical 
usage. Scope 2 emissions were 1,167,348 tons (1,059,000 
metric tons) and focus on indirect emissions from our 
purchased electricity. For Scope 3 emissions, we track the 
emissions associated with our business travel, which were 330,693 tons (300,000 metric tons).
In 2014, Boeing was recognized by the CDP for its leader -
ship in Climate Disclosure on CDP’s Standard & Poor’s 500 
Climate Disclosure Leadership Index. Greenhous Gas 
Corporate Inventory
Scop e 1 Emission s 31%
Scop e 2 Emission s 54%
Scop e 3 Emission s 15%Greenhous Gas 
Scope 1 Emission Sour ces
Natural Gas 55%
Jet Fuel 26%
Fugitive Em ission s 14%
#2 Diesel  3%
Other Fossil Fuels 2%
See Appendix for Greenhouse Gas Corporate Inventory footnotes.
See Appendix for Global Reporting site listings.
100% of the electricity 
at our Washington 737 and South Carolina 787 factories comes from renewable sources. 62
PERFORMANCE
Awards
In 2014, Boeing’s environmental leadership was recognized 
by several independent organizations. 
Los Angeles County recognized Boeing’s Space & 
Intelligence Systems in El Segundo, California, for moving 
toward more environmentally sound practices. The Natural 
Resources Conservation team at the satellite factory won 
top honors at the county’s annual Green Leadership Awards, taking home the award for “outstanding and 
innovative environmental sustainability projects.”
Air Transport World magazine named Boeing the “Eco-
Company of the Year” at the trade publication’s 41st annual 
Industry Achievement Awards in February 2015. The publication’s editors credited Boeing for “ever-more fuel and 
emissions-efficient aircraft” such as the 787 Dreamliner, 
737 MAX and the 777X, and the company’s global effort 
to develop sustainable aviation biofuel and the Boeing 
ecoDemonstrator Program, which tests new technologies to improve fuel efficiency and reduce emissions and noise.
The U.S. EPA has recognized Boeing’s leadership in 
energy conservation and efficiency with an ENERGY STAR 
Partner of the Year–Sustained Excellence award. This is 
the fifth consecutive year that Boeing has been recognized by ENERGY STAR for its superior energy conservation 
programs.
                 
Installing energy-efficient 
LED lighting is part of 
Boeing’s strategy to 
reduce its energy con -
sumption and improve overall environmental performance. It’s one of 
the actions that helped 
Boeing earn a 2015 
ENERGY STAR Partner  
of the Year–Sustained 
Excellence award from 
the U.S. EPA, the fifth 
consecutive year the 
ENERGY STAR  program 
has recognized the com -
pany’s superior energy conservation programs.  
(Boeing photo)In this time-lapse photo, 
a Falcon 9 rocket carrying 
Boeing-built 702SP (small 
platform) all-electric–  
propulsion satellites for two customers leaves a trail through the night Appendix
63sky after launch from Cape Canaveral, Florida, 
in March 2015. More 
information about the 
satellites is on page 12 of 
the Environment Report. (SpaceX Photo)64APPENDIX
Page 57 Footnote for Performance Summary Chart and Graph
•  “Environmental Fines” represent total fines paid in 2012, 2013 and 2014, 
respectively.
•  Data reported in this chart for the greenhouse gas emissions, hazardous waste, water intake and solid waste to landfill reflect environmental per -
formance at the following sites from a baseline set on 2012 values. These sites (known as Core Metric Sites) represent the vast majority of Boeing’s operations and are identified by the city in which the Boeing operation resides. For each metric, additional facilities and office buildings have also been included where information is available.
 • Alabama: Huntsville
 • Arizona: Mesa
 •  California: El Segundo, Torrance, Huntington Beach, Long Beach,  Seal Beach, Palmdale
 • Illinois: Chicago
 • Indiana: Gary
 • Kansas: Wichita
 • Missouri: St. Charles, St. Louis
 • Ohio: Heath
 • Oregon: Gresham  
 • Pennsylvania: Ridley Park
 • South Carolina: Charleston, Ladson
 • Texas: Houston, San Antonio
 • Utah: Salt Lake City
 •  Washington: Auburn, Tukwila (Developmental Center, Duwamish Towers), Everett, Frederickson, Kent (Space Center), Seattle (North Boeing Field, Plant 2, Thompson, South Park), Renton (737 Assembly, Longacres), SeaTac (Spares Distribution Center), Bellevue
 • Canada: Winnipeg
 • Australia: Fishermans Bend
 • Site Changes: Anaheim, California (closed in 2012): 2012 only data 
  Bankstown, Australia (closed in 2013): 2012 and 2013 data only
Return to Performance: SummaryPage 58 Footnote for Greenhouse Gas Emissions
•  In addition to data from Boeing’s 39 Core Metric Sites, it also includes  
data from Portland, Oregon (PDX Paint Hangar), and the Phoenix, Arizona, Data Center.   
•  1 metric ton = approximately 2,204.62 pounds.
•  Carbon dioxide equivalent or CO
2-e means the number of metric tons of 
CO2 emissions with the same global warming potential as 1 metric ton  
of another greenhouse gas (in accordance with EPA 40 CFR 98).
•  GHG emissions are calculated based on consumption of electricity, natural gas and fuel oil. (Our facility in Philadelphia is the only major U.S. site that uses fuel oil for heating.) Consumption of other fuels is not represented.
•  For U.S. sites, Scope 1 emissions from natural gas, fuel oil and on-site–generated electricity are calculated using the emission factors provided in U.S. EPA GHG Mandatory Reporting Rule. Scope 2 emissions from pur -
chased electricity are calculated using the year 2010 eGRID factors. For the Canada site, Scope 1 emissions are calculated using the emission factors provided in U.S. EPA GHG Mandatory Reporting Rule; Scope 2 emissions are calculated from the supplier data. For the Australia sites, Scope 1 and 2 emissions are calculated using the emission factors provided in the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (NGER) Scheme.
•  In 2012, Boeing South Carolina (BSC) made arrangements to purchase Renewable Energy Credits (REC), and offset approximately 51,809 tons (47,000 metric tons) of GHG emissions. Portland also purchased RECs to offset approximately 3,307 tons (3,000 metric tons) of its GHG emissions.  In 2013, BSC continued to make arrangements to purchase RECs, and offset approximately 57,320 tons (52,000 metric tons) of GHG emissions. In 2014, BSC and the Boeing 737 program made arrangements to purchase RECs, and have offset approximately 85,980 tons (78,000 metric tons) of GHG emissions.
Return to Performance: Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Page 58 Footnote for Water Intake
•  In addition to data from Boeing’s 39 Core Metric Sites, it includes  
data from Portland, Oregon (PDX Paint Hangar).   
•  1 U.S. gallon = approximately 3.79 liters.
Return to Performance: Water Intake65APPENDIX
Page 59 Footnote for Solid Waste to Landfill (Absolute)
• Includes data from Boeing’s 39 Core Metric Sites. 
• 1 U.S. ton = 2,000 pounds.
•  Solid waste numbers represent values determined from scale-weighed 
containers as well as calculated weights.
Return to Performance: Waste
Page 59 Footnote for Hazardous Waste Generation
•  In addition to data from Boeing’s 39 Core Metric Sites, it includes data  
from Portland, Oregon (PDX Paint Hangar); Jacksonville, Florida (Cecil Field);  El Paso, Texas; Macon, Georgia; and Sylmar, California.
Return to Performance: Waste
Page 60 Footnote for Global Reporting
Australia National Greenhouse and Energy Report footnote: This comprehen -
sive report must be completed by registered corporations that meet specified 
energy use and greenhouse gas emission thresholds. For the 2013–2014 reporting period, the Australian government’s Clean Energy Regulator released data for companies emitting more than 55,000 tons (50,000 metric tons) of equivalent carbon dioxide (CO
2-e). 
United Kingdom Carbon Reduction Commitment footnote: Boeing operations in the U.K. consist of multiple units and subsidiaries. Boeing U.K. Training and Flight Services Ltd. operates flight simulators for training on Boeing aircraft at several locations throughout the U.K. Boeing Defence U.K. Ltd. has employees located at multiple locations throughout the U.K., supporting Ministry of Defence and U.S. military programs. Additionally, CO
2 emissions from Boeing 
subsidiary Jeppesen U.K. Ltd. are included in the Boeing U.K. CRC report.
Fifteen sites report TRI and NPRI releases and transfers: Auburn, Washington; 
Charleston, South Carolina; El Paso, Texas; El Segundo, California; Everett, Washington; Frederickson, Washington; Seattle, Washington (North Boeing Field, Plant 2); Gresham, Oregon (Portland Fabrication); Portland, Oregon (PDX Paint Hangar); Renton, Washington; St. Louis, Missouri; Sylmar, California; Wichita, Kansas; and Winnipeg, Canada. 
2014 data will be submitted to the U.S. and Canadian governments after the 
publication of this report. Boeing will provide 2014 data in next year’s report.
Return to Performance: Global ReportingPage 61 Footnote for Greenhouse Gas Corporate Inventory
•  The greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reported represent 1,742 buildings in 
40 countries where Boeing has operational control. Refer to the Site listing footnote for Corporate GHG Inventory chart for a complete list.
•  Scope 3 emissions only include emissions from business travel.
•  Scope 1 “Other fossil fuels” include No. 6 fuel oil, gasoline, aviation gasoline, propane and LPG.
•  1 metric ton = approximately 2,204.62 pounds.
•  Carbon dioxide equivalent or CO
2-e means the number of metric tons of 
CO2 emissions with the same global warming potential as 1 metric ton of 
another greenhouse gas (in accordance with EPA 40 CFR 98).
•  Accounting protocol: This GHG inventory is prepared using the following protocols: The Greenhouse Gas Protocols and Methodologies: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition), GHG Reporting Guidance for the Aerospace Industry–IAEG, Australia’s National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act, and the United Kingdom’s CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme. 
•  Calculation factors: Data source of global warming potentials (GWP) is U.S. 40 CFR 98, subpart A, table A-1. For GHG inventory in North America, emission factors for combustion sources come from U.S. 40 CFR 98,  subpart C, table C-1. U.S. Scope 2 emissions are calculated using year 2010 eGRID factors. Canada Scope 2 emissions are calculated from supplier data. For GHG inventory in the U.K., emission factors from the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme are used. For GHG inventory in Australia, emis -
sion factors from the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act are used. For GHG inventory in locations where energy data is not accessible, 2003 CBECS factors are used to estimate the energy consumption; and emission factors from the International Energy Agency’s “CO
2 Emissions 
from Fuel Combustion Highlights 2013” and “2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories” are used to calculate the emissions.
•  Renewable Energy Credits (REC) were applied to GHG calculation. In 2012, Boeing South Carolina (BSC) made arrangements to purchase RECs, and offset approximately 51,809 tons (47,000 metric tons) of GHG emissions. Portland also purchased RECs to offset approximately 3,307 tons (3,000 metric tons) of its GHG emissions. In 2013, BSC continued to make arrangements to purchase RECs, and offset approximately 57,320 tons (52,000 metric tons) of GHG emissions. In 2014, BSC and the Boeing 737 program made arrangements to purchase RECs, and offset approximately 85,980 tons (78,000 metric tons) of GHG emissions.
Return to Performance: Greenhouse Gas Corporate Inventory66APPENDIX
Page 61 Site listing footnote for Corporate GHG Inventory chart
Our greenhouse gas inventory reflects data gathered at the Boeing facilities  
in the following cities:
Country  State  City (site) 
Australia  Australian Capital Territory  Canberra
  New South Wales Bankstown
   Sydney
   Yerriyong
  Northern Territory  Gladesville
  Queensland  Alderley
   Archerfield
   Brisbane
   Cairns
  Victoria  Malvern
   Melbourne
   Mentone
   Tullamarine
  Western Australia  Jandakot
Belgium   Brussels
Brazil  Distrito Federal  Brasilia
  São Paulo Sao José Dos Campos
   Sao Paulo
Canada  Alberta  Calgary
  British Columbia  Richmond
  Manitoba  Winnipeg
  Nova Scotia Enfield
  Ontario  Mississauga
   Ottawa
  Quebec  Boisbriand
   Montreal
China   Beijing
   Hong Kong
   Shanghai
Denmark   Copenhagen
Egypt   Cairo
France   Blagnac
   Paris
Germany   Berlin 
  Hesse  Neu-Isenberg
  North Rhine-Westphalia  Geilenkirchen
Greece  N. Smirni
Hungary   Papa
India  Andhra Pradesh  Hyderabad
  National Capital  New Delhi
  Karnataka  Bangalore
  Maharashtra Navi Mumbai
  Tamil Nadu  Chennai
  West Bengal  CalcuttaCountry  State  City (site) 
Ireland  Leinster  Banbridge
   Dublin
Israel   Tel Aviv
Italy  Massa
   Rome
Japan  Chubu 
   Kanto  
   Nagoya
   Tokyo
   Yokohama
Kazakhstan   Almaty
Kenya   Nairobi
Korea   Seoul
Kuwait  Kuwait City
Malaysia   Kuala Lumpur
Mexico  Mexico City
Netherlands   Amsterdam
   Nieuw Vennep
    Noord-Holland  
 Schiphol-Oost
New Zealand   Auckland
Norway  Egersund
Oman   Muscat
Poland   Gdansk
   Warsaw
Qatar   Doha
Russia   Moscow
   Skolkovo
   St. Petersburg
   Tyumen  
   V. Salda
Saudi Arabia   Riyadh
Singapore   Singapore
South Africa   Sandton
Spain   Madrid
   Villacarillo
Sweden   Goteborg
   Stockholm
Taiwan   Taipei
Turkey   Ankara
   Istanbul
Ukraine   Kiev
United Arab Emirates  Abu Dhabi
   Dubai
Return to Performance: Greenhouse Gas Corporate Inventory67APPENDIX
Page 61 Site listing footnote for Corporate GHG Inventory chart (cont.)
Country  State  City (site) 
United Kingdom  England  Bristol
   Camberley
   Corsham
   Crawley
   Farnborough
   Feltham  
   Gatwick
   Gosport
   Knaresborough
   London
   Milton Keynes
   Newbury
   Stockport
   Welwyn Garden City
   Yeovil
  Scotland  Perth
United States  Alabama  Daleville
   Huntsville
   Madison
  Alaska  Anchorage
  Arizona  MCAS Yuma
   Mesa
   Phoenix
  California  Alameda
   El Segundo
   Huntington Beach
   La Jolla
   Long Beach
   Mountain View
   Palmdale
   Pleasanton
   Rancho Cucamonga
   Sacramento
   San Diego
   San Jose
   San Luis Obispo
   Santa Susana
   Seal Beach
   Sunnyvale
   Sylmar
   Taft
   Torrance
   Van Nuys
    Ventura
   Victorville
  Colorado  AuroraCountry  State  City (site) 
United States  Colorado (cont.)  Centennial
   Colorado Springs
   Englewood
  Conn ecticut  East Windsor
  Florid a Cape Canaveral
   Fort Walton Beach
   Ft. Lauderdale
   Jacksonville
   Kennedy Space Center
   Miami
   Orlando
   Osprey
   Shalimar
   Tampa
   Titusville
  Georgia  Atlanta
   College Park
   Macon
   Warner Robins
  Hawaii  Honolulu
   Kihei
  Illinois  Chicago
   Fairview Heights
   Lombard
   Mascoutah
   Rolling Meadows
   Schaumburg
   Scott AFB
   St. Charles  
   Swansea
  Indiana  Crown Point
   Gary
  Kansas  Kansas City
   Wichita
  Louisiana  Bossier City
   Lafayette
  Maine  Bangor
   Waterford
  Maryland  Aberdeen Proving Ground
   Annapolis Junction
   California
   Germantown
   La Plata  
   Patuxent River
  Massachusetts  Lexington
   Mashpee
Return to Performance: Greenhouse Gas Corporate Inventory68 68APPENDIX
Page 61 Site listing footnote for Corporate GHG Inventory chart (cont.)
Country  State  City (site) 
United States  Minnesota  Eagan
  Missouri  Berkeley
   Earth City
   Florissant
   Hazelwood
   Maryland Heights
   Portage Des Sioux
   St. Charles
   St. Louis
  Montana  Glasgow
   Great Falls
   Helena
  Nebraska  Omaha
  Nevada  Las Vegas
  New Jer sey Berkeley Heights
   Millville
   Parsippany
  New Mexico Albuquerque
  New York New York
  North  Carolina  Fayetteville
   Havelock
   Morrisville
  North Dakota Minot
  Ohio Brookpark
   Cincinnati
   Fairborn
   Heath
  Oklahoma  Oklahoma City
  Oregon Arlington
   Boardman
   Gresham
   Hood River
   Portland
   Wilsonville
  Pennsylvania  Doylestown
   Eddystone
   Langhorne
   Lemont Furnace
   Pittsburgh
   Ridley Park
   Smithfield
  South Carolina  Charleston
   Ladson
   North Charleston
  Tennessee  MemphisCountry  State  City (site) 
United States Texas Austin
   Dalla s
   Dyess AFB
   El Paso
   Houston
   Irving
   Richardson
   San Antonio
   Universal City
  Utah Layton
   Salt Lake City
   West Jordan
  Virginia  Arlington
   Chantilly
   Fairfax
   Herndon
   Leesburg
   Newington
   Newport News
   Reston
   Springfield
   Virginia Beach
   Yorktown
  Washington  Anacortes
   Auburn
   Bellevue
   Bingen
   Bothell
   Enumclaw
   Everett
   Issaquah
   Kent
   Moses Lake
   Mukilteo
   Olympia
   Puyallup
   Quincy
   Renton
   SeaTac
   Seattle
   Tukwila
   Vancouver
   White Salmon
  Wyoming  Cheyenne
Return to Performance: Greenhouse Gas Corporate Inventory69
Visit us at boeing.
com/investorrelations 
to view our annual 
reports and to find 
additional information 
about our financial performance and 
Boeing business 
practices. Visit us at boeing.com/ community to view our  
Corporate Citizenship  
Report and other infor-  
mation about how Boeing  
is working to improve  communities worldwide.
Visit us at boeing.com/
environment to  
view our current  
Environment Report  
and information on  
how the people of  
Boeing are developing 
ways to protect the  planet and create a  
better tomorrow.Visit us at boeing.com 
to learn more about 
Boeing and how extra-  
ordinary innovations in our products and 
services are helping 
solve the world’s 
toughest problems.
Engagement
Photo: Boeing’s first KC-46 Tanker test 
aircraft, a 767-2C, takes 
off on its inaugural flight 
on Dec. 28, 2014. Boeing 
is building the U.S. Air Force’s next-generation 
aerial refueling tanker 
aircraft.
Copyright@ 2015 Boeing. All rights reserved.The Boeing Company
100 North Riverside PlazaChicago, IL 60606-1596USA