1
THE BOEING COMPANY
2017 ENVIRONMENT REPORT
BUILD SOMETHING CLEANER2ABOUT US
Our centennial in 2016 marked 100 years of 
innovation in products and services that helped transform aviation and the world. The same 
dedication is bringing ongoing innovation in more efficient, cleaner products and operations for  
our employees, customers and communities around the globe.
Our strategy and actions reflect goals and 
priorities that address the most critical environ-  
mental challenges facing our company, customers and industry. Innovations that improve efficiency across our product lines and throughout our operations drive reductions in emissions and mitigate impacts on climate change.
We’re reducing waste and water use in our 
facilities, even as we see our business growing.  
In addition, we’re finding alternatives to chemicals and hazardous materials in our products and operations, and we’re leading the global development of sustainable aviation fuels.Boeing begins its second century of business 
with a firm commitment to lead the aerospace industry into an environmentally progressive and sustainable future. 
Meeting climate change and other challenges 
head-on requires a global approach. Boeing works closely with government agencies, customers, stakeholders and research facilities worldwide to develop solutions that help protect the environment.
Our commitment to a cleaner, more sustainable 
future drives action at every level of the company. Every day, thousands of Boeing employees lead activities and projects that advance progress in reducing emissions and conserving water and resources. 
This report outlines the progress Boeing made 
and challenges we encountered in 2016 toward our environmental goals and strategy.
In the face of rapidly changing business and 
environmental landscapes, Boeing will pursue the innovation and leadership that will build a  
brighter, more sustainable future for our employees, customers, communities and industry.   
Leadership Message  1 
Global Environmental Landscape  3 
Aerospace Industry Analysis 4 
Governance  5  
Prioritization Study  6 
Boeing’s Environment Strategy  8 
2016 Goals & Progress 9 
2016 Performance 13 
Awards & Recognition  14 
Leadership Profiles  15IMPERATIVES  
Airplane Technology and Emissions  19 
Operational Efficiency  21 
Sustainable Aviation Fuel  23 
Energy Conservation & Emissions  25 
Water Management 27 
Solid Waste 29
Forward-Looking Statements  31 
Footnotes  32TABLE OF 
CONTENTS1
LEADERSHIP 
MESSAGE
Ursula English  
Vice President,  
Environment, Health & SafetyAt Boeing, we aspire to be not only the best  
in aerospace, but to be an enduring global industrial champion—a top performer in each and every area of our business. That includes an unwavering commitment to environmental innovation and performance in our products, services and operations. 
Since our company’s founding more than a 
century ago, Boeing has made remarkable strides in product efficiency. For example, our newest commercial airplanes such as the 737 MAX and 787 Dreamliner are 70 percent more fuel efficient and 90 percent quieter than the first jets that rolled out of our factories in the 1960s. And last year, the U.S. Department of Defense recognized the KC-46 aerial refueling tanker program for reducing hazardous waste from its aircraft painting process. And you can bet our airplanes of tomorrow will feature even more environmental innovations.
We also have made tremendous progress over  
the past decade reducing emissions, waste and 
water use in our operations while significantly growing our business. Two of our busiest factories—the 737 plant in Renton, Washington, Dennis Muilenburg  
Chairman, President  
and Chief Executive 
Officer“ Our newest commercial airplanes 
such as the 737 MAX and  
787 Dreamliner are 70 percent  
more fuel efficient and 90 percent quieter than the first jets that rolled out of our factories in the 1960s.”2
and the 787 facility in North Charleston, South 
Carolina—are powered by electricity from 100 percent renewable sources.
Building on this momentum, last year we opened 
the 777X Composite Wing Center in Everett, Washington, to fabricate the longest composite wing Boeing has ever built. The lightweight wing will allow the 777X to reach unprecedented levels of fuel efficiency for a wide-body commercial airplane. We invested $1 billion in innovative carbon fiber technology manufacturing, housed in a facility built to a Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Silver standard. Compared to traditional construction, the center has improved energy and water efficiency, reduced emissions and better overall environmental quality.
Our environmental leadership extends beyond 
our facilities and products; we collaborate with numerous research institutions, customers, universities, nonprofit organizations and governments to develop technologies, solve problems and educate communities around the 
Understanding that a 
proposed expansion of Boeing South Carolina would impact wetlands, Boeing worked with several state, federal and local agencies as well as conservation organizations—including the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control, LowCountry Land Trust, The Nature Conservancy and Open Space Institute—to develop a partnership to preserve about 4,000 additional acres of habitat, including 2,000 acres of wetlands and native plants as pictured above, that are at risk of development. Once wetlands enhancement  
activities are complete, this land will go to the United States Forest Service and the South Carolina Department of Natural Resources, ensuring long-term public  
access. This new preserve  
includes more than 10  
times the acres of wetlands  
lost to construction and has received national attention as a model process for partnership and preservation. (Lowcountry Land Trust photo)
world about the importance of environmental 
protection and preservation. For instance, together we are testing green infrastructure solutions to mitigate pollution from storm water runoff and improve overall water quality.
Moving forward, we remain focused on taking our 
environmental performance to new heights. When we do, our company, our customers and the global communities in which we live and work all benefit. 
Dennis Muilenburg  
Chairman, President and  
Chief Executive Officer
Ursula English  
Vice President  
Environment, Health & SafetyGLOBAL 
ENVIRONMENTAL LANDSCAPE
As the industry grows, Boeing 
recognizes that population growth, natural resource scarcity and climate change are serious issues that require credible actions and global solutions. 
Population Growth and 
Urbanization
The United Nations (U.N.) projects  
that the world population will reach 
8.5 billion by 2030.
Growing population and urbanization 
will further boost demand for transportation globally, presenting the challenge to meet that demand without the corresponding growth of emissions and community noise.
Natural Resource Constraints 
and Vulnerable Ecosystems
Growing economic activity and 
population levels increase demand and competition for raw materials and other natural resources, such as food, land, fresh water and energy. In many areas, natural resource scarcity and ecosystem vulnerability, including lack of available water, have put extreme pressure on ecosystems and introduced regional political instability. Water resources, coastal infrastructure, agriculture, ecosystems and human health are expected to be challenged in virtually every region worldwide.
Climate Change
The U.N.’s Intergovernmental Panel  
on Climate Change  reports that  
projected increases in carbon dioxide 
(CO
2) concentration will lead to 
rising global temperatures and more extreme weather events. 
In its 2014 Quadrennial Defense 
Review, the U.S. Department of Defense notes, “The pressures caused by climate change will influence resource competition while placing additional burdens on economies, societies and governance institutions around the world. These effects are threat multipliers that will aggravate stressors abroad, such as poverty, environmental degradation, political instability and social tensions.” 
Aviation brings together people, 
countries and cultures. The air transport industry supports an estimated 63 million jobs and accounts for about 3.5 percent of global gross domestic product (GDP), according  
to the Air Transport Action Group.
Wetlands are one part 
of Boeing's approach to stormwater management at its Everett, Washington, facility. (Boeing photo)
34AEROSPACE 
INDUSTRY ANALYSISBoeing is committed to a healthy 
environment. The aerospace industry continually adapts to dynamic and changing market forces. Achieving our goals means collaborating as an industry on the issues that face us 
today—for a more sustainable future. 
Environmental Regulation
Aerospace in general, and 
commercial aviation in particular, is a highly regulated industry, and environmental regulations are part of that. The number of regulations and environmental concerns affecting our industry is increasing and includes the following:
•  Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.
•   Airplane community noise. 
•   Local air-quality emissions for 
products and factory operations.
•  Water quality and issues such as stormwater.
•  Hazardous waste.
•   Energy consumption and the use of 
renewable energy in operations.
Chemical Restrictions & Bans 
Global regulation of chemical 
substances continues to grow exponentially. To illustrate, regulations expanded 50 percent per year from 2003 to 2013—more than 50 times overall. That trend continues as efforts to reduce chemical exposure from consumer products affect more industries, including aerospace.Boeing complies with all applicable rules and regulations. We assess regulatory effects on the environment as well as our company and customers. As a global business operating in sectors with global operations, we seek global alignment in policies and standards where reasonable, practical and protective.
Commercial Aviation &  
Climate Change
According to the Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change, aviation contributes approximately 2 per-cent of global CO
2 emissions. 
The industry has established a global sectoral approach to controlling these emissions and a set of goals aligned across the industry (see chart at right). As part of this strategy, two new global agreements were adopted by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), a United Nations agency, in 2016 that support achieving these goals: 
•  A new fuel-efficiency performance 
standard for aircraft . •  A global carbon offset program called Carbon Offset and 
Reduction Scheme in Aviation (CORSIA) . 
Implementation of these agreements into regulatory frameworks around the world is underway.
Customer Requirements
The aviation industry’s business goals 
of providing safe, cost-efficient travel and environmental goals of reducing CO
2 emissions are both achieved by constantly improving airplane fuel efficiency. Reducing emissions is aligned to our customers’ strategic desire to decrease fuel use, a major cost and priority in their purchasing decisions. Our customers increasingly require that Boeing’s products and services include environmentally progressive attributes that will help them address environmental concerns without sacrificing perfor-mance or increasing life-cycle costs.
 Average 2.4%* 
from 2009 –2014CORSIA pilot program to begin in 20202010
1.5% per year 
fuel efﬁciencyCarbon-neutralgrowth–50% CO
220202050
Airplane technology, 
sustainable fuels, operational efﬁciency
*Air Transport Action GroupGlobal Aviation Commitments5
The EHS Policy Council ensures that 
strategy and performance targets are set and monitored.  
One EHS Policy Council meeting 
each year is focused on setting targets that are aligned with corporate long-range business planning; another annual meeting focuses on detailed planning and reviewing the company’s environmental and safety performance. 
A team of cross-functional executives 
meets twice a month to advance the strategy, plan and performance. Progress and status are reported in each of these venues in addition to other internal reviews across the company.GOVERNANCEBoeing’s environmental strategy 
and policies are guided by the Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) Policy Council, composed of Boeing’s Executive Council and led by the chairman, president and 
chief executive officer. 
Environmental initiatives are 
embedded into every organization and function within Boeing. The EHS organization comprises functions focused on workplace safety and health, environmental performance and regulatory compliance. The EHS team also works with our business unit and operational leaders to drive an integrated, enterprisewide strategy that includes our products, services, processes, operations, contractors and employees. 
This highly integrated and coordinated  
approach drives continuous 
improvement in the environmental performance of our products and operations around the world.Boeing employees are 
increasingly invested in ideas and programs that benefit the environment. Over the past year, there has been a 72 percent increase in employee projects focused on the environment. (Boeing photo)6The analysis included direct 
input and perspectives from diverse stakeholders—such as customers, environment-focused non-governmental organizations (NGOs), and the company’s global leadership—as well as research into industrial best practices and community requirements.
One of the assessment’s main goals 
was to help Boeing identify and update its understanding of current and emerging environmental topics that are critical to the company and its stakeholders. The analysis supports a focused and dynamic global strategy to address the most important environmental priorities facing Boeing, its customers and communities around the world.
Most Significant Environmental 
Priorities
The assessment analyzed diverse  
viewpoints and organized 
environmental priorities by order of importance and influence on business strategy, as identified by Boeing and its external stakeholders. The topics relate to products, operations and PRIORITIZATION 
STUDYIn 2016, Boeing completed a 
comprehensive third-party review and assessment of the company’s most significant environmental priorities. 
In September and October 2016, Boeing’s most signiﬁcant 
environmental priorities across its value chain were conﬁrmed by assessing internal and external stakeholder perspectives. The results, in order of importance and inﬂuence on business strategy, are shown below:
Product Greenhouse Gas Emissions
• Fuel Efﬁciency• Operational Efﬁciency• Sustainable Aviation Fuel
Operations Greenhouse Gas Emissions
• Energy Conservation
Climate AdaptationOperations Water ManagementOperations Solid Waste Management & LandﬁllChemicals and Hazardous Material ManagementMaterials Innovation & Sustainable BuildingSupply Chain Environmental Standards, Practices & ReportingProduct NoiseRemediation & RestorationPressure to Increase Transparency in ReportingProduct End of Service Disassembly & DisposalNon-Greenhouse Gas EmissionsBiodiversityProduct Water UseImpact of Transportation InfrastructureResults of 2016 Prioritization Study
Text in green indicates topics explored in more detail in this report.a variety of other issues. Several 
topics were identified as highest importance and largest influence on business strategy by both Boeing and our external stakeholders and are explored at length later in this report. They include: 
•  Products  Greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions: fuel efficiency , 
operational efficiency  and 
sustainable aviation fuel.
•  Operations  GHG emissions: 
energy conservation , water 
management  and solid waste 
management/waste to landfill .
Boeing named additional priorities— 
including managing hazardous materials in our operations and products and managing chemicals in our aircraft and production—as well as opportunities, like pursuing innovations in environmentally progressive buildings. 
External stakeholders added supply 
chain practices and reporting and product noise as high environmental priorities. 7
It's important to note that while 
topics are ranked, we are currently addressing all identified priorities in our global environmental strategy.  
Global Environmental Concerns
The assessment reported current 
and emerging global trends that may affect Boeing’s business, including climate change, resource scarcity, rapid urbanization, regional collaboration on environmental regulations and rapid innovation in new technology.Environmental Leadership
The analysis concluded that Boeing 
has in place the policies and governance to address the most significant environmental priorities the company faces. Opportunities to strengthen our leadership include improving the measurement and reporting of progress made to environmental goals with increased transparency in communication to  
all stakeholders. Work has already begun on these fronts.PRIORITIZATION STUDY
Liquid Robotics, a  
Boeing company, designs and manufactures the Wave Glider—a solar-  and wave-powered  autonomous maritime surface vehicle and its variant, the Sensor Hosting Autonomous Remote Craft (SHARC). This graphic illustration represents the role the long-endurance auton -
omous vehicle plays in a seabed-to-space data and information network. (Liquid Robotics image)8BOEING’S 
ENVIRONMENT STRATEGYBoeing’s commitment to 
environmental leadership and  
building a more sustainable  
future drives a global strategy  
with three main areas of focus:
Inspire Global Collaboration
Boeing works closely with industry, 
government agencies, NGOs and customers to reduce aviation’s environmental footprint with a focus on reducing emissions. We engage in policy initiatives, research and development projects, collaborative technology road-mapping and more to further progress on our company and industry goals. 
Design in Environmental 
Performance
Most aviation emissions in an 
aircraft’s life cycle occur during its use by the airline or government customer. In addition to designing and building increasingly fuel-efficient products, Boeing uses innovative, environmentally progressive technology and manufacturing practices to reduce the environmental footprint and create market value for our customers.
 
   Innovate for Sustainable Operations
Improving the environmental footprint 
of Boeing’s factories, offices and other facilities requires continually assessing and updating technologies and processes to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, water intake, solid waste sent to landfills and the use of hazardous materials while increasing the use of environmentally progressive materials. Additionally, we are collaborating with experts outside of Boeing to help guide innovative and effective solutions to stormwater management and water-quality improvement. Boeing’s remediation program focuses on using innovative approaches to cleaning up affected sites while relying on close collaboration with community members and environmental groups.
In 2017, Boeing will complete its 
current cycle of environment-based targets, and is in the process of developing new targets to run through 2025.
Environmental 
Management
Supply Chain 
Management
Operational TargetsEnvironmentally 
Progressive Building 
Standards
Site Remediation
Maintenance & 
Operations Support
Fuel Efﬁciency ServicesAir Trafﬁc Management 
Infrastructure 
Modernization
Sustainable Aviation FuelAircraft DismantlingParts ReuseMaterials RecyclingEnvironmental 
ManagementEnvironmental 
Requirements
Design for Environment
New & Derivative Product 
DevelopmentDesign &
DevelopmentManufacturing & Operations
End of Service In ServiceEnvironmental Opportunities 
in the Product Life Cycle
Environmental 
Management
Supply Chain 
Management
Operational TargetsEnvironmentally 
Progressive Building Standards
Site Remediation
Maintenance & 
Operations Support
Fuel Efﬁciency ServicesAir Trafﬁc Management 
Infrastructure Modernization
Sustainable Aviation FuelAircraft DismantlingParts ReuseMaterials RecyclingEnvironmental 
ManagementEnvironmental 
Requirements
Design for Environment
New & Derivative Product 
DevelopmentDesign &
DevelopmentManufacturing & 
Operations
End of Service In ServiceEnvironmental Opportunities in the Product Life CycleEnvironmental 
Management
Supply Chain 
Management
Operational TargetsEnvironmentally 
Progressive Building 
Standards
Site Remediation
Maintenance & 
Operations Support
Fuel Efﬁciency ServicesAir Trafﬁc Management 
Infrastructure 
Modernization
Sustainable Aviation FuelAircraft DismantlingParts ReuseMaterials RecyclingEnvironmental 
ManagementEnvironmental 
Requirements
Design for Environment
New & Derivative Product 
DevelopmentDesign &DevelopmentManufacturing & Operations
End of Service In ServiceEnvironmental Opportunities 
in the Product Life Cycle
Environmental 
Management
Supply Chain 
Management
Operational TargetsEnvironmentally 
Progressive Building Standards
Site Remediation
Maintenance & 
Operations Support
Fuel Efﬁciency ServicesAir Trafﬁc Management 
Infrastructure Modernization
Sustainable Aviation FuelAircraft DismantlingParts ReuseMaterials RecyclingEnvironmental 
ManagementEnvironmental 
Requirements
Design for Environment
New & Derivative Product 
DevelopmentDesign &
DevelopmentManufacturing & 
Operations
End of Service In ServiceEnvironmental Opportunities in the Product Life Cycle
This chart represents the various ways Boeing considers 
environmental improvements throughout the product life cycle. While the life cycle begins with design & development and ends at the end of service, it's important to note that those end of service opportunities are considered at the beginning of the cycle, forming a continuous circle of improvement.Inspire Global Collaboration, Design in 
Environmental Performance and Innovate for Sustainable Operations support our core beliefs:
•  Partnering with community, customers and 
employees to advance our environmental goals. 
•  Improving the environmental performance of Boeing products to benefit our customers, our company, our employees and our planet. 
•  Reducing the environmental impact of Boeing operations and facilities to benefit local communities. 
The next three pages provide a summary of progress made to specific performance goals and targets. 2016 GOALS & 
PROGRESS 
A GEnx-2B engine is 
made ready for installa -
tion on a Boeing 747-8 at the Everett, Washington,  
factory. Continued  innovation and new engine technology have led to significant efficiency gains with reduced fuel consump -
tion and emissions across Boeing product lines. (Boeing photo)Boeing’s commitment to global 
environmental leadership is focused on key goals and targets, which reflect the three tenets of our environmental strategy. 
910Support a global industrywide 
approach for aviation carbon 
dioxide emissions.  2016 GOALS & PROGRESS
Inspire Global Collaboration
Through collaboration with global 
stakeholders over several years, Boeing supported development and adoption of two complementary global carbon emission–reduction measures agreed to in 2016 by ICAO. 
All new commercial aircraft types 
will be required to meet ICAO’s fuel efficiency standards as they are implemented by member nations over the next several years. Our new commercial airplanes have been designed to meet and exceed the challenging requirements.
Airlines flying between participating 
nations will begin adopting a market-based carbon-offset program known as CORSIA. So far, 65 nations have committed to participate, which represents more than 80 percent of the growth in emissions from international aviation after 2020. Offset credits purchased through the program, which will be assessed to ensure they meet stringent environ-mental integrity criteria, will finance projects to reduce CO
2 emissions, 
many in developing countries.
 GOAL PROGRESS
Work with customers and 
industry groups on testing 
and demonstrating advanced, 
environmentally cleaner  
technologies.   To speed up development of new 
technologies that enhance safety and reduce fuel use, emissions and noise, Boeing has completed four ecoDemonstrator flight-test programs in the past five years. The programs tested some 60 technologies using a 737 (2012), 787 Dreamliner (2014), 757 (2015) and an Embraer E170 regional jet (2016, and the first such collaboration between two airplane manufacturers).
Boeing and Embraer tested several 
technologies, including:
Enhancing safety and efficiency —
An optical air data system called LIDAR, which stands for light 
detection and ranging, can potentially save weight and drag and provide a backup source for pitot tubes. These tubes protrude from the fuselage and measure air speed, atmospheric pressure, external temperature and other parameters.
Reducing noise —A new design for 
leading-edge slats on the front of the 
airplane’s wings reduced unsteady airflows, which lowers the noise level as the airplane is on approach.
Ice-phobic paint —A new “ice-
phobic” paint was shown to improve 
the airplane’s ability to shed ice and would also require less washing.
Lowering emissions —A 10 percent 
biofuel blend made from Brazilian 
sugar cane was used during all test flights. Scientific studies have shown that biofuels reduce life-cycle emissions by 50 to 80 percent compared with fossil fuel.
Boeing is now planning for its 2018 
ecoDemonstrator program, which will use a 777 for flight testing focused on a new lightweight compact thrust reverser and flight operations automation.
 
Support the development of  
a viable sustainable aviation  
fuel market.
 Boeing continues to be a leader in 
the aviation industry for developing and commercializing sustainable aviation fuels, which represent aviation’s greatest opportunity to reduce carbon emissions, meet the industry’s environmental goals and support long-term sustainable growth.
Substantial progress has been made 
on dozens of collaborative projects around the world with near- and long-term potential to deliver sustainable aviation fuel to airline customers. For example, in South Africa, Boeing partnered with South African Airways and low-cost carrier Mango to fly Africa’s first flights powered by a 30 percent blend of biofuel produced from solaris, a nicotine-free tobacco plant grown by farmers in Limpopo Province, South Africa.In the United States, Boeing sup-ported the Port of Seattle and Alaska Airlines on a study that found the best initial solution to provide biofuel to every departure at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport is a small, on-site receiving and blending facility.
In the coming years, we will  
accelerate our investment in the development of sustainable biofuels. 11Invest in organizations and 
projects that will benefit the 
environment globally and in  
the communities in which  
we operate.  
 
 
 Boeing has strong partnerships with 
community environmental leaders who help us ensure that projects support economic, social and environmental progress. 
In 2016, Boeing committed further 
resources to help The Nature Conservancy (TNC) scale the land-management community work they conduct in Indonesia for Brazil and Mexico. In addition, Boeing partners with TNC on domestic projects in Washington, Arizona, Missouri and South Carolina to help communities develop plans and models to improve the health and security of their water resources. The support from Boeing and other organizations is helping communities across the globe manage more than 6.5 million acres (2.6 million hectares) of land. 
Additionally, we are working with 
experts in Puget Sound to test green infrastructure solutions to mitigate pollution from storm water runoff and improve overall water quality.
2016 GOALS & PROGRESS
Inspire Global Collaboration continued
GOAL PROGRESS
Design in Environmental Performance
PROGRESS
Reduce the environmental 
footprint of Boeing products 
throughout the product  
life cycle.  Development of new, more efficient 
Boeing airplanes continues on schedule: 
•  The 737 MAX  entered service 
in 2017. The new aircraft, which 
includes a new winglet tested on the ecoDemonstrator, will be  
20 percent more fuel efficient  
and have a 40 percent smaller noise footprint than the original Next-Generation 737.•  The first 787-10  is in flight test. This 
airplane will achieve approximately 25 percent better fuel efficiency than the airplanes it replaces. 
•  We opened the 777X Composite Wing Center  and completed the 
first wing panel prototype. The 777X  will reduce fuel consumption 
18 percent compared to its closest competitor and significantly lower its noise footprint. 
Improve operational efficiency 
across Boeing products and services. We continue to make progress in 
reducing both emissions and noise through better flight operations. Boeing is implementing new airport arrival and departure procedures  
in several European and Asian countries that reduce miles flown  
and emissions. 
In 2016, we conducted demonstra-
tions with Delta and United Airlines during multiple arrivals to San Francisco Airport highlighting the use of airplane technology, such as the Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) landing system (GLS). 
GLS integrates satellite and ground-
based navigation data to provide the position information required for approach and landing guidance.  
This system significantly improves takeoff and landing capability at airports at lower cost, emissions and noise levels. 
The success of this demonstration 
enabled the airport to begin the process of installing the ground system for improved all-weather access to all runways and reduced environmental impacts.  GOAL12Design in Environmental Performance continued2016 GOALS & PROGRESS
Work with aviation stake-  
holders to ensure that all 
Boeing products comply with 
chemical restrictions and bans.  We are continuing to monitor and 
assess global chemical regulations for potential impact to Boeing products. An example is complying with Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) regulations in the European Union. We are coordinating with our research and technology organization and across our supply chain for safe and sustainable alternatives to substances targeted for restrictions or bans. Where alternatives do not exist, we are continuing our research while communicating with regulatory agencies or applying for and supporting authorization for continued use until alternatives can be identified, rigorously evaluated for compliance with performance and safety requirements, and implemented. 
Boeing will continue to speed 
development and implementation of viable and environmentally responsible chemical alternatives.
We also work with the aerospace 
industry through the International Aerospace Environmental Group  
(IAEG) to advance development of the Aerospace and Defense Declarable Substance List (AD-DSL) and the associated Materials Declaration Standard for Aerospace and Defense (IPC-1754) for supplier reporting. These resources enable our suppliers to report chemical content of supplier-designed parts more efficiently and help ensure our compliance with global chemical regulations.
Internally, Boeing is implementing 
tools and processes, such as the Chemical Hazard Assessment, to enable engineers and technologists to compare hazards between alternative materials and select environmentally preferred solutions that meet design and performance requirements.
Protect human health and the 
environment by cleaning and 
restoring locations affected by 
past practices.   We made significant progress in 2016 
on our inventory of 65 remediation sites, including advancing six projects—in Renton, Auburn and Everett, Washington; Santa Susana and Long Beach, California; and Pools Prairie, Missouri—by achieving key regulatory milestones. In addition, we furthered our site restoration goals by renewing or initiating habitat certifications at four sites, including the Santa Susana Field Laboratory  
in California, Plant 2 in Washington , 
and the Emery landfill and Chemical Commodities Inc. (CCI) projects in Kansas. 
 In June 2016, Boeing and other 
members of the Plant 2 Sediment Remediation and Urban Waterway Restoration project team accepted the World Organization of Dredging Associations’ Environmental Excellence Award for Environmental Dredging for our Plant 2 dredging and habitat project.
Maintain 2012 levels for green -
house gas emissions, water 
intake, solid waste to landfill 
and hazardous waste.  In 2016, we out-performed our plan 
to be at or below the 2012 baseline for all of the metrics we track, even as we increase commercial airplane production. (Note: Hazardous waste generation targets are on a revenue-adjusted basis.) Boeing continues to focus on reducing the waste it sends to landfills by improving production processes to reduce the amount of material used, researching waste recycling methods and markets for excess carbon fiber, as well as  continuing to expand our enhanced recycling program. 
We are currently developing our next 
set of targets for 2018 to 2025.Innovate for Sustainable Operations
GOAL PROGRESS132016 
PERFORMANCEBoeing is improving the 
environmental footprint of our diverse operations. We are on target to out-perform our goal of zero growth in our four key indicators from our 2012 baseline through 2017 .
2016 Envir onmental Performance
Data Repr esentative of the Majority of Boeing Facilities 
(Percent Performance to 2012 Baseline)
Hazardou s Wa ste* –17.4%
GHG Emis sions –4.9%
Solid Wa ste –19.1%
Water Inta ke –17.6%2017 Target: 0% absolu te growth—water, GHG 
and soli d wa ste; 0% revenue-adjust ed growth—
hazardous  waste
*Normaliz ed to revenue2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017–20–15–10–50510Boeing generated fewer greenhouse 
gas emissions, used less water, sent less solid waste to landfills and generated less hazardous waste—  
all reduced from 4 to 19 percent in 2016 compared to the baseline set in 2012—even with strong growth in production.
This year’s Environment Report 
also reflects the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) 2016 recalculation of the National eGRID emissions factors, which represent the emissions footprint of all electric power sources. The EPA biannually recalculates the data and applies the results to the previous three years. A significant increase in the emissions factor was identified for the Northwest region. This was mainly caused by greater use of coal-derived electricity needed to meet the demands of a growing region. This resulted in Boeing’s recalculation of 2014 and 2015 data, which caused an increase of the emissions previously calculated and reported for those years. Despite this change, we remain on track to exceed all goals.2017 is the final year in Boeing’s five-year plan of environmental performance goals and targets set in 2012. The company will implement new performance goals in 2018 that will demonstrate a continuing commitment to strengthening our global environmental leadership. 
The accompanying charts and 
graphs show data rounded to the nearest decimal point and reflect the environmental performance of the majority of Boeing facilities, calculated against 2012 baseline values. (Note: hazardous waste generation targets are revenue adjusted.)
Boeing also submits environmental 
data to regulatory agencies and voluntary disclosure organizations, such as Australia’s National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Scheme, the United Kingdom’s Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme, the EPA’s Toxics Release Inventory, the European Union’s Emissions Trading System and Canada’s National Pollutant Release Inventory.
Greenhouse  Gas 
Corpor ate Inventory
Scop e 1 Emis sions 33%
Scop e 2 Emis sions 53%
Scop e 3 Emis sions 14%Greenhouse  Gas 
Scop e 1 Emission  Source s
Natura l Gas 54%
Jet Fuel 27%
Fugitive Emis sions 15%
#2 Diesel  2%
Other Fossil Fuels 2%14AWARDS & 
RECOGNITIONBoeing’s environmental leadership 
and actions have earned awards and  
recognitions for factory and facility operations as well as for our products.
Awards received in 2017 and 2016 
include:
The 2017 ENERGY STAR Partner 
of the Year—Sustained Excellence Award  from the U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency (EPA) for the company’s continued leadership in protecting the environment through superior energy efficiency. This is the seventh consecutive year the company has received an ENERGY STAR award. 
The 2017 Pretreatment Excellence 
Award  from Gresham, Oregon, for 
Boeing Portland’s achievement in reaching 100 percent compliance with the site’s Industrial Wastewater Discharge permit, the 15th consecu-tive year of perfect compliance.
The 2017 Blue Marble Award  
from NASA for collaboration on  
the Environmentally Responsible 
Aviation (ERA) Program for studies  
on blended wing body/structures  
and technologies tested on the  
2015 ecoDemonstrator program’s 757 platform.
The 2016 Crystal Cabin Award 
from the Crystal Cabin Award Association for excellence in aircraft interior innovation. The award for “Greener Cabin, Health, Safety and Environment” category recognized Boeing's prototype lavatory that  
uses ultraviolet (UV) light to sanitize  
all lavatory surfaces without the use of chemicals. 
The 2016 Gold Award from King 
County  for maintaining zero industrial 
wastewater compliance violations at several facilities in Puget Sound.  North Boeing Field in particular has received its fourth consecutive Commitment to Compliance Award for earning a Gold Award for five consecutive years.
 The 2016 ENERGY STAR 
National Building Competition: BOOTCAMP! Award  from the EPA 
for a competition among several buildings at the Renton, Washington, site that significantly improved energy conservation.
The 2016 Energy Champion Award 
from the California Energy Efficiency Industry Council for “excellence in advancing energy efficiency.” The award recognizes Boeing and its consultant partner Nexant for implementing measures that achieved more than 4.5 million kWh (16,200 gigajoules) of verified energy savings annually in 70 Boeing buildings, with an additional 4 million kWh (14,400 gigajoules) of potential savings identified and being implemented.
Membership in the Environmental 
Excellence Program with the  
South Carolina Department of  
Health and Environmental Control (renewed in 2016). The program’s goal is to “promote and practice pollution prevention, energy and other resource conservation, and to strive for continuous environmental improvement.”   
The 2016 Green Business Award 
from Utah Business magazine, 
recognizing Boeing Salt Lake’s programs and practices that promote environmental sustainability.
The 2016 Resource Conservation 
Management Award from Seattle-based utility Puget Sound Energy for reducing energy consumption with low-cost conservation projects and recognizing the conservation efforts of maintenance teams at the Renton, Washington, site.The 2016 Conservation Leader of the Year Award from the Snohomish County, Washington, Conservation District for initiatives to recycle unused carbon fiber, retrofit the Auburn, Washington, site with a rain garden and engage employees and local com-  
munities around stormwater solutions. 
The 2016 Environmental 
Excellence Award from the World Organization of Dredging Associations for the restoration and remediation of the Duwamish Waterway in Seattle, Washington. 
 The 2016 Secretary of Defense 
Environmental Award  for  
Boeing’s KC-46 air refueling tanker for the U.S. Air Force. The award recognizes “exceptional environmental achievements and innovative, cost-effective environmental practices.” 
The 2015 Chief of Naval Operations 
Environmental Award  (received 
in 2016) for the P-8A Poseidon maritime patrol aircraft. The award cites the aircraft’s compliance with international, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations.15
As a supply chain leader for Boeing’s 
Defense, Space & Security business unit, Dana Hullinger helps drive 
the effort to improve performance 
and use data analytics to gain new insights into Boeing’s complex and diverse network of suppliers. 
Supplier performance metrics  
include a wide range of environ-
mental issues. Dana discusses some of the sustainability challenges and opportunities throughout the supply chain. 
Can you describe Boeing’s  
supply chain? 
More than 13,000 active suppliers 
account for more than $60 billion in goods and services to build Boeing products. We have suppliers in every state in the U.S. and 48 countries.What are the main environmental and sustainability issues in supply chain activity? 
They vary by region, but the issues fall 
into broad categories of social justice  
and environmental stewardship. One of the most talked about global social justice issues is conflict minerals, which refers to specific minerals mined in the Democratic Republic of Congo and its surrounding countries. The mining is done with coerced  
labor under often harsh and unsafe  
 conditions, and their sales are used to finance armed conflicts in the region.  
The minerals, including tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, are widely used in electronics and consumer products. 
The U.S. and other nations have 
regulations against the use of products made with conflict raw materials. Boeing is a leader in working with government agencies and industry groups on ensuring compliance throughout the supply chain. 
Other human rights issues involve 
human trafficking and the use of child labor in manufacturing in many parts of the world. Boeing trains its employees to be aware of conditions or situations that could indicate a lack of supplier compliance with laws protecting human rights. 
For the environment, there is growing 
regulation of hazardous chemicals and greenhouse gas emissions in products and manufacturing in the European Union and other regions. Energy and water conservation also are important sustainability issues. How does Boeing address these and other global environmental issues?
We require our suppliers to comply 
with all global, national and local laws that protect human rights, guard against human exploitation and protect the environment. Period. It’s in the terms and conditions of their contract and it is a basic requirement to do business with Boeing. That means we need to be diligent to ensure the supply chain remains aligned with our principles and our practices, especially as we enter new markets around the world.
On key environmental issues, Boeing 
works closely with governments, suppliers and partners on setting industrywide standards. We are a founding member of the International Aerospace Environmental Group and the Defense Industry Initiative on Business Ethics and Conduct, which promotes a culture of ethical conduct throughout the military supply chain.
LEADERSHIP 
PROFILE
Dana Hullinger16Adi Singh leads Boeing’s 
Frederickson, Washington, site, one of the company’s 12 major facilities 
that fabricate parts and structural 
components for Boeing commercial and military aircraft.
Adi’s team pursues a robust 
strategy and vision for the site’s environmental footprint, including striving for “net-zero energy” consumption. Adi discusses some of the team’s successes and challenges. 
The Frederickson facility plays 
a key role in the manufacture of Boeing aircraft. What are the site’s major activities?
Our manufacturing is organized 
around two main business units that focus on different materials: composites, through the Composite Manufacturing Center, and metal, through Skin and Spar. The site produces composite horizontal stabilizers and vertical fins—together known as the empennage at the aircraft’s tail—and metal wing components. 
What are the challenges with each 
material as you look for ways to reduce waste, conserve resources and find alternatives to hazardous chemicals?  
They’re very different. With metal parts and components, we use 
chemicals to help detect flaws and prepare surfaces for painting. Chemicals and paint add to the site’s hazardous waste. How can we reduce and even eliminate chemicals in our processes?
With composites, we use raw material,  
such as carbon fiber, to manufacture 
the parts and components. Can we use less raw material? Finding new ways to recycle and reuse excess composite material and keep it out of landfills is a big focus and opportunity for innovation. 
Reducing the site’s energy use 
and overall carbon footprint also is a major part of our environmental strategy.   
What are some of the successes 
and progress so far?
Thanks to a very creative team, site-
wide improvements include:
•  Significantly reducing hazardous 
waste by reducing the amount of paint used on parts, cutting back the frequency of replacing large quantities of chemicals needed in some processes, and recycling oils in equipment 
•  Mitigating the risk of groundwater pollution with a stormwater management system that has received the highest recognition available from the local county government for five consecutive years.
•  Switching to reusable containers for parts sent from local suppliers, reducing shipping waste and costs. 
•  Reducing the amount of raw material required and the waste generated in the manufacture of composite parts.
•  Expanding recycling of waste streams at all levels to conserve resources and energy.
•  Reducing waste by switching to filtered water stations in some locations instead of bringing in large bottles of water.
As we look to the future, new tech-nology will take us to the next level.
LEADERSHIP 
PROFILE 
Adi Singh17
Boeing began the ecoDemonstrator 
program to speed up development of new technologies that enhance safety 
and reduce fuel use, emissions and 
noise. The program has tested 60 technologies in the past five years on a variety of aircraft. 
A first-of-its-kind partnership 
in 2016 brought together Boeing and Brazilian aircraft maker Embraer for a unique ecoDemonstrator experience. The team included Boeing’s Doug Christensen (top) and Antonini Puppin-Macedo (middle), and Embraer’s Luiz Nerosky (bottom).  The three discussed the project’s benefits and surprises.   
What brought Boeing and Embraer together for this unique collaboration?
Christensen:  Boeing and Embraer 
share the passion to accelerate safety 
and environmental technologies. The ecoDemonstrator program provides the stage to bring the companies together to collaborate on advanced technologies.
Puppin-Macedo:  Boeing and 
Embraer have a history of successful 
collaboration. We began working together on sustainable aviation fuel in 2012 through a series of workshops that brought together all stakeholders in Brazil. This led to  
the publication of the comprehensive  
 “Roadmap for Sustainable Aviation Biofuels in Brazil” in 2014.
Together we launched the Joint 
Research Center for Sustainable Aviation Biofuels, right next door to the  
Boeing Research & Technology (BR&T)  
Center in São José dos Campos, Brazil. This positive crescendo of collaborations on biofuels, a key en-  
vironmental element in aviation today, paved the way for us to join forces on the ecoDemonstrator program. 
BR&T-Brazil led research on two  
technologies: biofuels and the slat  
cove noise reduction. By collaborating  
on flight tests, we can speed up 
getting these technologies ready for certification and implementation. 
Nerosky: Both companies share 
the industry’s commitment to 
reduce the environmental footprint of aircraft transportation worldwide and aim for a sustainable industry by applying new technologies in future aircraft. Working with Boeing on the ecoDemonstrator program in testing new technologies reinforces, once  
again, Embraer’s commitment in  
that sense.What are the benefits of two  
airplane manufacturers working together on advanced technologies to enhance safety and make flying more efficient?
Christensen: It’s a powerful approach  
to bring together the best and brightest  
engineers from both companies to 
accelerate advanced technologies. 
Puppin-Macedo: Together, we can 
focus on benefits for the aviation 
industry and society as a whole and share different perspectives on global issues, such as reducing our carbon footprint and increasing the “global reach” of our collaborative actions. We can lead the industry, steer advocacy and accelerate innovation.
Nerosky: The ecoDemonstrator 
collaboration expands a relationship 
that began in 2012 when Boeing and Embraer signed a cooperation agreement to benefit their customers, companies and the global aviation industry. LEADERSHIP 
PROFILE 
Doug Christensen  
Antonini Puppin-Macedo  
Luiz NeroskyKim Smith is vice president of Attack 
Helicopter Programs and leads the Boeing site in Mesa, Arizona, which 
produces the AH-64 Apache and 
AH-6i Little Bird helicopters for the U.S. Army and allied defense forces around the globe. 
Boeing in Mesa also makes 
electrical and composite components for other commercial and military aircraft and supports developmental flight testing for multiple programs. The site has a robust record of improving the environmental footprint of its operations and products. Kim discusses Boeing Mesa’s environmental progress, challenges and opportunities for continuing improvement.
Boeing in Mesa is a big and 
complex manufacturing site. How would you describe its environmental strategy? 
Boeing in Mesa is fortunate because 
environmental stewardship has become fundamental to how we do business; it’s not a separate activity. Site leaders continually look for creative ways to conserve resources, reduce waste, save energy and strengthen community partnerships. Over time, it’s become part of the culture and our way of life.
 A key part of our strategy relies on a 
fundamental feature of the culture, which is the amazing passion of our employees for environmental action. For example, since 2012, we reduced our water use—one of the site’s key performance targets—by 35 percent. Employee teams suggested some of the more innovative projects for conserving water, such as slow-closing irrigation valves that reduce irrigation line breakage and leaks by minimizing hydraulic shock, and a sand filter backwash collection and recovery system at the Central Cooling Plant that saves 12,500 gallons (47,318 litres) of water a day. 
Our employees also come up with 
creative community projects, from collecting rainwater at the Desert Botanical Garden in Phoenix, to supporting sustainable gardens at Sunshine Acres , a Mesa home for 
children at risk.
The leadership here in Mesa gets 
behind and supports employee involvement in finding new projects to improve efficiency, reduce waste and expand recycling. Partnerships and collaboration are critical to environmental progress. We share best practices with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and work closely with state agencies on a variety of pollution prevention programs. 
What sort of environmental 
improvements have you seen with the site’s main product line, the Apache helicopter? 
Our government customers are 
interested in improving the efficiency and the overall environmental impact of military platforms. The Apache was among the first military aircraft to use a paint primer free of hexavalent chromium, a hazardous chemical commonly used to resist corrosion. Boeing has made substantial investments in finding environmentally cleaner alternatives to chrome and other chemicals used on its aircraft. 
An Apache also was the first 
rotorcraft to fly on biofuel, by the way, in a 2010 test flight conducted by one of our customers, the Royal Netherlands Air Force.  LEADERSHIP 
PROFILE 
Kim Smith
1819
Our products connect people, protect nations, explore 
space and sea and inspire the world. Boeing is committed to making the world’s best airplanes with the smallest environmental footprint and working with industry stakeholders on climate protection.The 777X, which is on 
track to begin deliveries in 2020, will be the world’s largest and most efficient twin-engine jet. It features composite wings, new GE9X engines and other aerodynamic advancements. (Boeing photo)
AIRPLANE TECHNOLOGY 
AND EMISSIONS20
Reducing the environmental impact of 
our products starts with good design. We strive to use lightweight materials such as composites, which make up half of the 787 Dreamliner’s primary structure, including the fuselage and wings. We integrate highly efficient engines and incorporate other engineering innovations on all of our airplanes to achieve superior aerodynamics.
Our talented employees design and 
build the world’s most fuel-efficient commercial aircraft. The 737 MAX reduces fuel use and carbon dioxide emissions by 20 percent compared with the original Next-Generation 737 and has a 40 percent smaller noise footprint than today’s single-aisle airplanes. The fastest-selling airplane in Boeing’s history, the 737 MAX had its first deliveries in the spring of 2017.
The revolutionary 787 Dreamliner 
family improves fuel use 20 to 25 percent compared with the airplanes it replaces. The efficiencies are due to new engines, lightweight composite materials, more efficient systems applications and modern aerodynamics. The 787 Family has saved airlines more than 14 billion pounds (6.4 billion kilograms) of fuel since it was introduced in 2011.
Technologies on the 787 also 
ensure that no sound louder than 85 decibels—about the level of loud traffic heard from the side of the road—leaves the airport boundaries. The 500th Dreamliner was delivered in 2016 and the first 787-10, the largest model, rolled out in February 2017.
The 777X, which is on track to 
begin deliveries in 2020, will be the world’s largest and most efficient twin-engine jet. With 12 percent lower fuel consumption than competitor airplanes, the 777X will have the world’s largest composite wing, aerodynamic improvements and a highly efficient GE9X engine.
To speed up development of new 
technologies that enhance safety and reduce fuel use, emissions and noise, Boeing has completed four ecoDemonstrator flight-test programs since 2012. Some 60 technologies have been tested, most recently in 2016 aboard an Embraer E170 regional jet—the first such collaboration between two airplane manufacturers (more details on  
page 17).
ENVIRONMENTAL
BENEFITS INCLUDE REDUCTIONS IN FUEL 
CONSUMPTION, CO 2 AND NOISE LEVELThe 787-10, the largest 
of the Dreamliner family, rolled out in February 2017 and made its first flight on March 31. (Boeing photo)
Avianca took  delivery of Boeing’s 500
th 787 Dreamliner in 
December 2016.  (Boeing photo)21
To help airlines fly as efficiently as possible, Boeing offers a 
variety of products and services to improve the operational performance of our airplanes.Software products such 
as Direct Routes and  Wind Updates use real-time traffic and weather information to help pilots take advantage of the most efficient route or altitude during their flight. (Boeing photo)
OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY22
The 737 MAX reduces 
fuel use and emissions by 20 percent compared with the original Next-Generation 737 and has a 40 percent smaller noise footprint than today’s single-aisle airplanes. (Boeing photo)
To improve the operational efficiency 
of the in-service fleet, we offer services including a tool called Fuel Dashboard, which is powered by data analytics. Boeing analyzes data from airline operations and simulates different scenarios to assess the amount of fuel required for a given flight. These comparisons enable airlines to identify and implement opportunities for improvement throughout their operation, using descriptive and diagnostic analytics. More than two dozen airlines use Fuel Dashboard and are reducing fuel use by an average of 4.3 percent, which proportionately lowers carbon dioxide emissions. 
We also collaborate on air traffic 
management modernization efforts to improve airspace efficiency and accommodate the growth in air travel. We engage with airlines, airports and air navigation service providers around the world to integrate our airplanes’ onboard capabilities, such as satellite-based navigation, with ground technologies. Our efforts in the United States, Europe, China, Panama and Turkey include analyzing operational and environmental benefits, developing new procedures, and recommending airspace redesigns that can better use our airplanes’ capabilities.
In 2016, Boeing collaborated with 
Delta and United Airlines to fly several unique landing approaches into San Francisco International Airport aimed at reducing flight delays, saving fuel and lowering emissions and noise levels. The improvements come FUEL DASHBOARD
AND AIR TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT 
SOLUTIONS LOWER FUEL CONSUMPTION 
AND CARBON EMISSIONS
from new satellite-based navigation 
technology on the airplane and on the ground, which allows for more precise, shorter approaches. In addition to environmental benefits, the technology allows for landing in low visibility, which improves safety and airline reliability.
While flight planning systems identify 
the most optimal route before take-off, Direct Routes scans real-time operations to ensure optimization continues throughout the flight. Pilots  
receive advisories on more efficient routings that arise because of changes  
in wind, air traffic and other factors.
Similarly, Wind Updates provides 
timely information to pilots during the flight to help them take advantage of the most efficient route or altitude.Boeing’s Fuel Dashboard 
uses data analytics to assess information from operators and simulate different scenarios. More than two dozen airlines use Fuel Dashboard to reduce fuel usage by an average of 4.3 percent, which lowers CO
2 emis -
sions. (Boeing photo)23
Boeing is an industry leader in fostering sustainable aviation 
fuel development around the world. Biofuel represents a significant, untapped opportunity to reduce aviation emissions, 
meet the industry’s environmental goals* and support long-
term sustainable growth.These virtually nicotine-  
free tobacco plants grown 
by farmers in South Africa served as feedstock for Africa’s first flights powered by a blend of sustainable aviation fuel in 2016. (Boeing photo)
SUSTAINABLE AVIATION FUEL24A variety of source materials, or 
feedstocks, are used to produce sustainable aviation fuels. These feedstocks include waste cooking oil and animal fat, farm and forest residuals, purpose-grown sustainable crops, and waste gases from industrial facilities. Scientific studies have shown that biofuels reduce life cycle emissions by 50 to 80 percent compared with fossil fuel. Biofuels have also been shown to perform as well as or better than petroleum jet fuel while cutting sulfur emissions, soot and particulates. 
Boeing works closely with airlines,  
research institutions, nongovern-
mental organizations, governments and other stakeholders around the world to advance biofuel development (see map above). All of these efforts adhere to principles established by the Roundtable on Sustainable Biomaterials, which address sustainability’s three pillars: social, environmental and economic performance.Since 2009, the international standards body ASTM has approved five production methods, or path-ways, for fuels that are “drop-in” substitutes for petroleum fuels and require no modification to airplanes or engines. Since approval of the first fuel production pathway in 2011, airlines have flown more than 5,000 commercial flights worldwide powered by a blend of biofuel and  
Jet A. In 2016, Los Angeles International Airport and Norway’s Oslo Airport Gardermoen began regularly utilizing biofuel for every departure—an historic first for commercial aviation.
Our collaborations in 2016:Billion-gallon supply: Worked with 
fuel producers (including Neste and Renewable Energy Group), the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration and other stakeholders to gain approval for HEFA-Plus. Known as renewable diesel or green diesel when used in ground transport, production exceeds one billion gallons (about 4 billion litres) annually. The fuel’s performance was previously tested on the Boeing ecoDemonstrator program’s 787 Dreamliner and 757 flight-test airplanes.
Tobacco for fuel:  Partnered with 
South African Airways and Mango  
to fly Africa’s first biofuel flights.  
The flights were powered by a  
30 percent blend of biofuel produced 
from Solaris, a virtually nicotine-free  
tobacco plant developed by SunChem  
SA and supplied by SkyNRG, grown sustainably by farmers in South Africa’s Limpopo Province.
Biofuel in Brazil: Powered the 
ecoDemonstrator flight-test program aboard an Embraer E170 on a biofuel blend made from Brazilian sugar cane. This approved fuel pathway is a proof point for Boeing’s strategy of supporting regional biofuel production around the world. Our support in Brazil includes the  
Boeing-Embraer Joint Research Center for Aviation Biofuels in  
São José dos Campos.
Salicornia and seawater:  The 
Masdar Institute’s Sustainable 
Bioenergy Research Center (SBRC) launched its pilot facility in Abu Dhabi.  
The SBRC produces biofuel feed-stock from salt-tolerant salicornia seeds and raises shrimp and fish that  
cleanse and nourish the plants and water. This work helps address the  
United Arab Emirates’ goals to trans-form coastal deserts into productive farmland. SBRC was founded by Boeing, Etihad Airways, the Masdar Institute and Honeywell UOP .
Salicornia and sludge:  Formed a 
partnership with Mexico’s government 
and AeroMexico to support a biofuel program involving 17 institutions that will consider jatropha, salicornia and sewage sludge as potential feedstocks. This program results from Mexico’s biofuel production roadmap called Plan de Vuelo.
Capturing waste for fuel: Partnered 
with the United Kingdom’s Virgin Atlantic and U.S. fuel producer LanzaTech, which has produced 1,500 gallons (5,678 litres) of biofuel made from steel mill waste industrial gases. Ethanol-based Lanzanol, created through a fermentation process, is estimated to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 65 percent compared with conventional fuel and could be produced globally.
Biofuel on every flight: Participated 
with the Port of Seattle and Alaska Airlines to complete a $250,000 feasibility study identifying short-  
and long-term solutions to provide a blend of biofuel on every departure  
from Seattle-Tacoma International Airport. The study’s initial announce-ment and public discussion of its results signaled further market interest in sustainable aviation fuels  
to producers.25
Boeing takes a life cycle approach to our environmental footprint,  
which means we look at more than the effects of our products on the 
planet. We also carefully review how our products are manufactured and the effects of our operations. Reducing factory and facility emissions is a core part of our strategy and focus of innovation. Employees inspect and 
clean space solar panels at Spectrolab, a wholly owned Boeing subsidiary in Sylmar, California Spectrolab’s solar panels have provided clean electric power to more than 600 satellites and the International Space Station. (Boeing photo)
ENERGY CONSERVATION 
& EMISSIONS26We reduced our 
absolute energy consumption in 2016 by enough to power 22,000 average U.S. homes.
“Roaming print” technology 
at Boeing’s network printers reduces wasted paper by 800,000 sheets per year.We save about 25 million 
gallons (95 million litres) of water at our Huntington Beach,California, campus by irrigating with repurposed water.
From partnering with the Department 
of Energy in 1974 on pioneering wind-powered generators to developing innovative fuel-cell systems and leading the world in photovoltaic technology, Boeing has long been a leader in developing technology that reduces operational emissions and provides cleaner options for manufacturing.
Boeing research in energy 
technologies and their application has grown in sophistication since the 1970s. Our work raises the bar on energy and resource efficiency standards. 
For the past 60 years, Boeing’s 
wholly owned subsidiary Spectrolab Inc. has led the industry in solar-cell technology for both space- and Earth-based applications. Spectrolab is the largest continuously operating solar company in the world and the leading manufacturer of space-qualified multi-junction solar cells  
and panels.Boeing’s new Solid Oxide Fuel Cell (SOFC) system, now operating in  
Port Hueneme, California, is demonstrating the sustainable value of using solar power to generate hydrogen gas from seawater. It then stores the hydrogen until it releases the gas into a fuel cell stack to produce electricity, heat and water.  
These marketplace solutions are 
hard at work at Boeing facilities. On-site solar systems provide energy at Boeing plants in North Charleston, South Carolina, and Salt Lake City, Utah; and Boeing is a major purchaser of green power at several of its other facilities. Internal conservation efforts have resulted in significant accomplishments in 2016: 
•  Over the past five years, as our 
commercial airplane production has increased by nearly 25 percent, our absolute energy use has decreased by 5.9 percent. 
•  Achieved absolute energy reduction 
in 2016 of 802,000 mmbtu (million British thermal units).•  Improved energy efficiency by  
13 percent since 2012. 
•  In 2016, expanded the company environmental engagement platform to include more information on energy, water conservation and recycling efforts to inspire replication.
•  Also in 2016, commissioned a new chiller plant at the Everett, Washington, site to support the world's largest building by volume, gaining a 36 percent efficiency improvement.
ALTERNATIVE
TECHNOLOGY PROVIDES SOLUTIONS FOR 
CLEANER PRODUCTS AND OPERATIONS27
Boeing is a careful steward of one of the planet’s most 
precious natural resources: water. In our operations, we focus on innovative ways to protect and improve water quality for the benefit of the environment and the communities where we live and work. WATER MANAGEMENTBoeing’s leadership in 
stormwater management includes collaborating with numerous research and nonprofit groups such as The Nature Conservancy, the Washington Stormwater Center, Los Angeles Conservation Corps, Washington State University, the University of Alabama and the University of California, Los Angeles, on technology and green infrastructure solutions that can mitigate storm -
water pollution.We reduced our 
absolute energy consumption in 2016 by enough to power 22,000 average U.S. homes.
“Roaming print” technology 
at Boeing’s network printers reduces wasted paper by 800,000 sheets per year.We save about 25 million 
gallons (95 million litres) of water at our Huntington Beach,California, campus by irrigating with repurposed water.
28
Boeing applies a wide range of 
water-management strategies in keeping with our unique and long-standing legacy of applying innovative technologies to water conservation. In the early 1970s, for example, Boeing was a pioneer in developing practical, large-scale water purification systems that are still in use around the world to supply clean water to some of the most arid regions on the planet. 
That tradition continues today, across 
our enterprise.
For instance, a Boeing team based in 
Huntington Beach, California, recently took on the challenge of reusing available water for site irrigation. The team found a way to use the filtered and treated water from the site’s groundwater extraction and treatment system to irrigate the grounds. About 80 percent of the 188-acre (76 hectare) campus is now irrigated with this nonpotable, repurposed water.  
Boeing has also continued to develop 
many innovative technologies for natural biofiltration of stormwater. We have considerable experience in various types of water treatment, ranging from advanced treatment like reverse osmosis to sustainable green infrastructure such as biofilters. We also work with experts outside of Boeing to help guide innovative and effective solutions to stormwater management challenges and to improve water quality.
Boeing selects partnering opportu-
nities that generate benefits in the following ways:
•  Advance the science and innovative 
technology of green infrastructure.•  Provide employee and community engagement opportunities.
•   Leverage past projects, other 
partnerships or both.
Projects in 2016 include:
•  Continued the research with 
Washington State University and the Washington Stormwater Center to strengthen permeable pavement with cured carbon fiber composite material.
•  Partnered with The Nature Conservancy by funding several green infrastructure application projects in Puget Sound as well as water-wise plant research at an outdoor laboratory in Southern California. 
•  Funded a rain barrel project for the Snohomish Conservation District (SCD) in Snohomish County, Washington, where the Boeing Everett site is located. The project to assemble rain barrels encouraged water conservation throughout the region and also created an environmentally focused volunteer opportunity for Boeing employees. 
  Partnering with SCD has resulted in direct improvement of stormwater management at Boeing sites. For example, SCD shared its expertise in the design and construction of a rain garden at Boeing’s Auburn facility.   
  SCD honored Boeing with the 2016 Conservation Business of the Year award to recognize Boeing’s leadership in stormwater management and the company’s permeable pavement research.
FOR PARTNERING DRIVE 
CONTINUOUS INNOVATIONOPPORTUNITIES
Boeing supports protect -
ing and improving water 
quality for the benefit of the community and environment. We also share knowledge about stormwater management, source control and  restoration for the better -
ment of the communities where our employees  live and work.29
Today’s major manufacturers can be measured by their 
commitment to optimal management and reduction of solid waste produced by their operations. Boeing is no exception. Employees at Boeing’s 
South Carolina site use a one-for-one exchange program, which allows them to swap one consumable item, like batteries, headlamps  or safety glasses, for a new one. The initiative  has reduced consumption of consumables by  50 percent at the site. (Boeing photo)
SOLID WASTE30
We reduced our 
absolute energy consumption in 2016 by enough to power 22,000 average U.S. homes.
“Roaming print” technology 
at Boeing’s network printers reduces wasted paper by 800,000 sheets per year.We save about 25 million 
gallons (95 million litres) of water at our Huntington Beach,California, campus by irrigating with repurposed water.
Our goal is to stay at or below 2012 
levels of waste sent to landfills while continuing to grow our company. In fact, even with revenues up more than 15 percent since 2012, we have reduced our absolute waste to landfills by nearly 19 percent. 
The Boeing strategy places priority 
on reducing the use of resources by designing processes to minimize or reuse materials. When that is not possible, we seek to recycle or compost those materials, or use them as an energy source. 
Boeing’s Enhanced Recycling 
program is an example of that strategy in action. At each facility where it has been implemented, Boeing employees separate waste into color-coded bins labeled for mixed recycling, composting, and waste to landfill (or incineration). The system is designed to divert up to 80 percent of waste from landfill or incineration. 
Enhanced Recycling is now being 
used in locations that, added together, house more than 45 percent of our workforce. Plans are in place for extensive expansion of the program by the end of 2017.  
The first conservation priority, 
however, is to find ways to reduce or reuse resources. Boeing has a number of projects that work to make change at the source of waste.   
Boeing employs “roaming print” 
technology on 4,200 network office printers (and growing). By only printing jobs when an employee actually goes to the printer to pick it up, Boeing has reduced unnecessary printed paper as well as reducing energy use and using fewer toner cartridges. 
Boeing Supplier Management is 
adding more stringent oversight to purchasing of nonproduction products and services. To date, this process change has resulted in a 35 percent reduction in orders processed.
As we use more carbon fiber to 
develop lighter aircraft and reduce product emissions, we are finding ways to reduce excess material creation. We are calibrating our production processes to use less material. We’re exploring and implementing ways to reuse or  
recycle the remaining material. 
Currently, we sell uncured material on 
our surplus sales website at below-market cost. We’re also collaborating with business partners to test ways to recover and recycle fibers. (Cured carbon fiber presents a greater challenge because of manufacturing requirements and technology barriers.)
Boeing is also reducing materials 
through additive manufacturing. This is a process of creating an object by adding material, usually layer upon layer (like 3D printing), whereas subtractive manufacturing methodologies cut material away, resulting in greater waste.  
These processes significantly 
minimize volumes of excess materials. Robotic Automated Fiber Placement (AFP) and similar technologies enable better use of material and more efficient fabrication of large-scale parts at higher production rates.
INNOVATION
IS USED TO REDUCE WASTE  
GENERATION AT THE SOURCEA large suspended tool  
applies carbon fiber tape to fabricated air -
craft parts at Boeing’s Composite Manufacturing Center in Frederickson, Washington. The center has reduced waste by using less composite material upfront. (Boeing photo)FORWARD-
LOOKING STATEMENTS
This report contains “forward-looking 
statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as “may,” “should,” “expects,” “intends,” “projects,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates,” “targets,” “anticipates” and similar expressions are used to identify these forward-looking statements. 
Examples of forward-looking 
statements include those relating to our future financial condition and operating results, as well as any other statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions, which may not prove to be accurate. These statements are not guarantees and are subject to risks, uncertainties and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Many factors could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from these forward-looking statements. 
Additional information concerning 
these and other factors can be found in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including  
our most recent Annual Report  
on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports  
on Form 8-K. 
Any forward-looking statement 
speaks only as of the date on which it is made, and we assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
Since 2009, the number 
of annual events to celebrate Earth Day and World Environment Day increased by 345 percent.  In 2016, employees participated in more than 240 such events in 19 countries. (Boeing photo) 
3132Footnotes for Performance Summary 
Chart and Graph
  “Environmental fines” represent total fines paid in 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016, respectively.
  Data reported in this chart for the green -
house gas emissions, hazardous waste, water intake and solid waste to landfill reflect environmental performance at the following sites from a baseline set on 2012 values. These sites (known as Core Metric Sites) represent the vast majority of Boeing’s operations and are identified by the city in which the Boeing operation resides. For each metric, additional facil -
ities and office buildings also have been included where information is available. 
 • Alabama: Huntsville
 • Arizona: Mesa
 •  California: El Segundo, Torrance, Huntington Beach, Long Beach, Seal Beach, Palmdale
 •  Illinois: Chicago 
 •   Indiana: Gary
 •  Missouri: St. Charles, St. Louis
 •   Ohio: Heath
 •  Oregon: Gresham 
 •   Pennsylvania: Ridley Park
 •  South Carolina: Charleston, Ladson
 •  Texas: Houston, San AntonioFOOTNOTES
 •  Utah: Salt Lake City, West Jordan
 •  Washington: Auburn, Bellevue, Tukwila 
(Developmental Center, Duwamish Towers), Everett, Frederickson, Kent (Space Center), Seattle (North Boeing Field, Plant 2, Thompson, South Park), Renton (737 Assembly, Longacres), SeaTac (Spares Distribution Center) 
 •  Canada: Winnipeg
 •  Australia: Fishermans Bend
 •  Site changes: Anaheim, California (closed in 2012; 2012 data only); Bankstown, Australia (closed in 2013; 2012 and 2013 data only); Wichita, Kansas (reduced scope in 2015, now reports only hazardous waste).
Footnotes for Greenhouse Gas Emissions
   In addition to data from Boeing’s 37 Core Metric Sites, data from Portland, Oregon (PDX Paint Hangar), and Phoenix, Arizona (Data Center), are included. 
  1 metric ton = 2,204.62 pounds.
  Carbon dioxide equivalent, or CO 2e, 
means the number of metric tons of CO 2 
emissions with the same global warming potential as one metric ton of another greenhouse gas (in accordance with EPA 40 CFR Part 98 Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting).  GHG emissions are calculated based on consumption of electricity, natural gas and No. 6 fuel oil. (Our facility in Philadelphia is the only major U.S. site that uses fuel oil for heating.) Consumption of other fuels is not represented.
   2014−2015 emission numbers are recalcu -
lated based on new eGRID2014 factors.
   For U.S. sites, Scope 1 emissions from natural gas, fuel oil and on-site generated electricity are calculated using the emission factors provided in U.S. EPA GHG Mandatory Reporting Rule. Scope 2 emissions from purchased electricity are calculated using the market-based method and eGRID sub-region factors, since residual mix is not available in the U.S. For the Canada site, Scope 1 emissions are calculated using the emission factors provided in U.S. EPA GHG Mandatory Reporting Rule; Scope 2 emissions are calculated using the market-based method and the supplier-specific emission factor. For the Australia sites, Scope 1 emissions are calculated using the emission factors provided in the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (NGER) Scheme, and Scope 2 emissions are calculated using market-based method and the emission factors provided in the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (NGER) Scheme, since residual mix is not available in Australia. Emissions calculated with location-based method are: 1,381,000 tons (1,252,000 metric tons) CO
2e (2016).   RECs were applied to the GHG calcu -
lation for the following locations: North Charleston, South Carolina, and Renton, Washington. In 2016, these Boeing locations made arrangements to purchase RECs to offset around 147,000 tons (133,000 metric tons) of GHG emissions.
Footnotes for Water Intake
   In addition to data from Boeing’s 37 Core Metric Sites, data from Portland, Oregon (PDX Paint Hangar), also included. 
   1 U.S. gallon = 3.79 liters.
Footnotes for Solid Waste to Landfill
   Includes data from Boeing’s 37 Core  
Metric Sites. 
   1 U.S. ton = 2,000 pounds. 
  Solid waste numbers represent values determined from scale-weighed containers as well as calculated weights.
Footnote for Hazardous Waste Generation
   In addition to data from Boeing’s 37 Core Metric Sites, data from Portland, Oregon (PDX Paint Hangar); Jacksonville, Florida (Cecil Field); El Paso, Texas; Macon, Georgia; Wichita, Kansas; and Sylmar, California, are included.33Footnotes for Global Reporting
Australia National Greenhouse and Energy 
Reporting footnote: This comprehensive report must be completed by registered corporations that meet specified energy use and greenhouse gas emission thresholds. For the 2015–2016 reporting period, the Australian government’s Clean Energy Regulator released data for companies emitting more than 55,000 tons (about 50,000 metric tons) of carbon dioxide (CO
2e).
United Kingdom Carbon Reduction Commit-ment footnote: Boeing U.K. operations consist of multiple units and subsidiaries. Boeing U.K. Training and Flight Services Ltd. operates flight simulators for training on Boeing aircraft at several locations throughout the U.K. Boeing Defense U.K. Ltd. has employees located at multiple locations throughout the U.K. sup -
porting Ministry of Defense and U.S. military programs. Additionally, CO
2 emissions from 
Boeing subsidiary Jeppesen U.K. Ltd. and Aviall U.K. Inc. are included in the Boeing U.K. CRC report.
Fourteen sites report TRI and NPRI releases 
and transfers: Auburn, Washington; Charleston, South Carolina; El Paso, Texas; El Segundo, California; Everett, Washington; Frederickson, Washington; Seattle, Washington (North Boeing Field, Plant 2); Gresham, Oregon (Portland Fabrication); Portland, Oregon (PDX Paint Hangar); Renton, Washington; St. Louis,Missouri; Sylmar, California; and Winnipeg, Canada.
2016 data will be submitted to the U.S. and 
Canadian governments after the publication of this report.Footnotes for Greenhouse Gas Corporate Inventory
   The greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reported represent 1,696 buildings in 42 countries where Boeing has operational control. Refer to the Site Listing Footnotes for Corporate GHG Inventory Chart for cities included.
  Scope 3 emissions only include emissions from business travel.
   Scope 1 “other gas types” include CH4, N2O, NF3 and PFCs emissions. 
  Scope 1 “other fossil fuels” include No. 6 fuel oil, gasoline, aviation gasoline, propane and LPG.
  1 metric ton = 2,204.62 pounds.
  Carbon dioxide equivalent, or CO 2e, 
means the number of metric tons of CO 2 
emissions with the same global warming potential as one metric ton of another greenhouse gas. (In accordance with EPA 40 CFR Part 98 Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting Accounting protocol.) This GHG inventory is prepared using the following protocols:
 •  The Greenhouse Gas Protocol:  
A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition)
 •  The Scope 2 Guidance 
 •  GHG Reporting Guidance for the Aerospace Industry (IAEG) 
 •  The Australian National Greenhouse  
and Energy Reporting Act 2007
 •  The United Kingdom’s CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme   Scope 2 emissions are calculated using  
the market-based method. Location-  
based method calculated emissions are 1,183,000 tons (1,074,000 metric tons)  
CO
2e. Residual mix is only available in  
E.U. countries; therefore, other grid average emissions factors are used in all other countries. In the market-based methodology, RECs were applied to the GHG calculation for the following locations: North Charleston, South Carolina, and Renton, Washington. In 2016, these Boeing locations made arrangements to purchase RECs to offset around 146,000 tons (132,000 metric tons) of GHG emissions.
   Other calculation factors: Data source of global warming potentials (GWP) is U.S. 40 CFR Part 98 subpart A, table A-1. For GHG inventory in North America, emission factors for combustion sources come from U.S. 40 CFR Part 98, subpart C, table C-1. For GHG inventory in the U.K., emission factors from the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme are used. For GHG inventory in Australia, emission factors from the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act are used. For GHG inventory in locations where energy data are not accessible, 2012 CBECS factors are used to estimate the energy consumption and emission factors from the International Energy Agency’s CO
2 Emissions From  
Fuel Combustion Highlights 2013  and  
2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories  are used to 
calculate the emissions.Site Listing Footnotes for Corporate GHG 
Inventory Chart
Country  State/City (Site)
Australia   Australian Capital  
Territory 
 Canberra
 New South Wales
 Bankstown
 Sydney  
 Williamtown Yerriyong
 Northern Territory 
 Gladesville Queensland 
 Alderley Archerfield Brisbane Cairns Coominya
 South Australia
 Adelaide Victoria  
 Melbourne
 Mentone Tullamarine
 Western Australia 
 Jandakot
Bahrain  Manama
Belgium  Brussels
Brazil  Distrito Federa l 
 Brasília
 São Paulo 
 Sao José dos Campos
 São Paulo 
Canada  Alberta  
 Calgary British Columbia 
 Richmond  
 Vancouver Manitoba  
 Winnipeg
 Ontario  
 Mississauga
 OttawaFootnotes continued34Site Listing Footnotes for Corporate GHG 
Inventory Chart (cont.)
Country  State/City (Site)
Canada  Montréal
China  Beijing
 Hong Kong
 Shanghai
Denmark  Copenhagen
Egypt  Cairo
Ethiopia  Addis Ababa
France  Blagnac
 Paris  
 Roissey-en-FranceGermany  Berlin
 Bavaria
 Munich
 Hesse  
 Neu-Isenberg North Rhine-Westphalia 
 Cologne
Greece  N. Smirni
Hungary  Papa
India  Andhra Pradesh 
 Hyderabad
 National Capital  
 New Delhi
India  Karnataka 
 Bangalore Maharashtra 
 Navi Mumbai
 Tamil Nadu  
 Chennai
Ireland  Leinster  
 Banbridge
 Dublin
Israel  Tel Aviv
Italy  Massa
 RomeJapan   Chubu
 Nagoya
 TokonameCountry  State/City (Site)
Japan  Tokyo
 Tokyo
  Kanto
 Yokohama
Kazakhstan   Almaty
Kenya   Nairobi
Korea   Seoul  
 Yeongcheon-siLuxemburg   Luxemburg
Malaysia   Kuala Lumpur
Mexico   Mexico City
Netherlands  Amsterdam
 Nieuw Vennep
 Schiphol-Oost, Noord-Holland
New Zealand  Auckland
Norway   Egersund
Oman   Muscat
Poland   Gda ´ nsk
 Warsaw 
Qatar  Doha
Russia   Moscow
 Skolkovo  St. Petersburg
 Tyumen
Saudi Arabia   Riyadh
Singapore   Singapore
South Africa  Johannesburg
Spain   Madrid
 VillacarrilloSweden   Göteborg
 StockholmTaiwan  Taipei
Turkey   Ankara
 IstanbulUkraine   KievCountry  State/City (Site)
United Arab  Abu Dhabi
Emirates   Dubai
United  England  
Kingdom   Bristol
 Camberley
 Corsham Crawley Farnborough Feltham Fleet  
 Gatwick Gosport Knaresborough London Milton Keynes
 Oxford Stockport Welwyn Garden City
 Yeovil
 Scotland 
 Perth
United States  Alabama  
 Daleville
 Huntsville Madison
 Alaska  
 Anchorage Arizona  
 Mesa
 Phoenix
 California  
 Costa Mesa
 El Segundo
 Huntington Beach
 Long Beach
 Mountain View
 Palmdale
 Pleasanton Rancho Cucamonga
 Sacramento San Diego
 San Jose  
 San Luis Obispo
 San MateoCountry  State/City (Site)
United States California (cont.)
 Santa Susana
 Santee Seal Beach
 Sylmar Taft Torrance Van Nuys
 Ventura Victorville
 Colorado  
 Aurora
 Centennial Colorado Springs
 Englewood
 Connecticut  
 East Windsor
 Florida 
 Cape Canaveral
 Fort Walton Beach
 Ft. Lauderdale
 Jacksonville Kennedy Space Center
 Miami Orlando Shalimar Tampa Titusville
 Georgia 
 Atlanta College Park
 Macon Peachtree  
 Warner Robins
 Hawaii  Honolulu Kihei
 Illinois  
 Chicago
 Fairview Heights
 Mascoutah Rolling Meadows
 Schaumburg  
 St. Charles
 SwanseaFootnotes continued35Site Listing Footnotes for Corporate GHG 
Inventory Chart (cont.)
Country  State/City (Site)
United States Indiana  
 Crown Point
 Gary Kansas  
 Kansas City
 Wichita Louisiana  
 Bossier City
 Lafayette Maine  
 Bangor Maryland  
 Aberdeen Proving Ground
 Annapolis Junction
 California
 Germantown Patuxent River
 Massachusetts  
 Lexington
 Michigan
 Waterford Minnesota  
 Eagan Mississippi
 Starkville
 Missouri  
 Berkeley
 Bridgeton Earth City 
 Florissant Fort Leonard Wood 
 Hazelwood Maryland Heights
 Portage Des Sioux
 St. Charles
 St. Louis
 Montana  Glasgow Helena
 Nebraska  
 Omaha Nevada  
 Las VegasCountry  State/City (Site) 
United States New Jersey 
 Berkeley Heights
 Parsippany New Mexico 
 Albuquerque New York 
 New York
 North Carolina 
 Fayetteville
 Havelock Kings Mountain  
 Morrisville
 Ohio  
 Brookpark
 Cincinnati Fairborn Heath
 Oklahoma  
 Oklahoma City
 Oregon  
 Arlington
 Boardman Gresham Hood River
 Portland The Dalles  
 Wilsonville
 Pennsylvania  
 Eddystone
 Langhorne Lemont Furnace
 Pittsburgh Ridley Park
 Smithfield
 South Carolina 
 Charleston
 Ladson North Charleston
 Tennessee  
 Cordova  
 Memphis
 Texas  
 Austin
 DallasCountry  State/City (Site) 
United States Texas (cont.)  
 Dyess AFB
 El Paso
 Houston Irving Richardson San Antonio
 Universal City
 Utah  
 Hill AFB  
 Layton Salt Lake City
 West Jordan
 Virginia  
 Arlington Chantilly Fairfax Herndon Leesburg Newington Newport News
 Virginia Beach
 Washington  
 Anacortes Auburn Bellevue Bingen Bothell Enumclaw Everett
 Issaquah Kent Moses Lake
 Mukilteo
 Olympia Puyallup Quincy Renton SeaTac Seattle Tukwila Vancouver White SalmonFootnotes continued36
The Boeing Company
100 North Riverside PlazaChicago, IL 60606-1596USA