Building a Better PlanetThe Boeing Company 
2013 Environment ReportThe Boeing Company
Boeing is the world’s largest aerospace 
company and leading manufacturer of commercial airplanes and defense, 
space and security systems. The top  
U.S. exporter, Boeing supports airlines and U.S. and allied government custom -
ers in more than 150 countries. Our products and tailored services include 
commercial and military aircraft, satel -
lites, weapons, electronic and defense 
systems, launch systems, advanced information and communication sys -
tems, and performance-based logistics and training. With corporate offices in Chicago, Boeing employs more than 174,000 people across the United States and in 70 countries. In addition, 
our enterprise leverages the talents of 
hundreds of thousands of skilled people working for Boeing suppliers worldwide.Contents   
Our Commitment  1
Performance Targets 2
Designing the Future  3
Innovating to Zero 10
Inspiring Global Collaboration  16
Results 21At Boeing, we aspire to be 
the strongest, best and  
best-integrated  aerospace-  
based company in the world— for today and tomorrow.
Cover photo: The 
innovative Phantom Eye is powered by clean-burning  hydrogen and emits only water in the  atmosphere.  (Boeing photo)
Photo above:  The 
737 MAX, currently  
in development, features a 13 percent smaller carbon footprint than today’s most fuel-efficient single-aisle airplanes.  
(Boeing photo)To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment 1
Our Commitment:  
Leadership Message
Jim McNerney  
Chairman,  
President and Chief Executive Officer   The Boeing Company
Kim Smith  
Boeing Vice President  
Environment,  
Health and SafetyFive years ago, we set ambitious goals to  
 reduce our environmental footprint while  
 significantly growing our business.
Thanks to the dedication and hard work of 
everyone at Boeing, we met those goals, and are prepared to make further progress 
in the years ahead.
During a five-year period in which we 
developed two fuel-efficient new airplanes and increased aircraft deliveries by more 
than 50 percent, we also significantly 
reduced CO
2 emissions, energy use, 
hazardous waste generation and water consumption within our operations. And 
we did this while opening a major new 
manufacturing facility, creating more than 13,000 new jobs and increasing annual revenues to a record $81.7 billion.
As a result of our conservation efforts, the 
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency recognized our progress and named Boeing an ENERGY STAR
® Partner of the Year for 
2013—the third consecutive year we earned the recognition.
This is the type of sustainable growth that 
Boeing is committed to as we look toward our second century. 
We are targeting zero-carbon growth 
over the next five years as our business 
continues to expand. The goal for our factories and operations is zero absolute growth in CO
2 emissions, water intake and solid waste sent to landfills, and zero revenue-adjusted growth in hazardous materials, by 2017. 
Our environmental performance extends 
well beyond the walls of our facilities. 
Boeing is researching and developing new technologies that will help define the next generation of cleaner, quieter and more  
fuel-efficient airplanes. 
The 737 MAX, currently in development, 
features a 13 percent smaller carbon footprint than today’s Next-Generation 737—which already is the most fuel-efficient 
airplane in its class. 
Our new 787 Dreamliner and the 747-8 
aircraft offer a double-digit carbon footprint reduction compared to the airplanes they 
replace, and we are in discussions with 
customers on the 777X, a new derivative aircraft that is expected to provide the lowest fuel consumption per seat of any airplane in commercial service.
In September we completed the first round 
of flight testing in our ecoDemonstrator project, which will help speed development of environmentally progressive products, 
materials and designs. 
Earlier this year the Phantom Eye took to the 
skies for its third test flight. The unmanned, high-altitude aircraft runs on clean-burning hydrogen and leaves only water vapor in the atmosphere. We also completed flight testing of the X-48C, a research aircraft 
that effectively blends body and wing into a 
single unit that holds the promise of greater fuel efficiency and less noise. 
Moving forward, Boeing is continuing its 
leadership role on global efforts to help the 
commercial aviation industry achieve the goal of carbon-neutral growth by 2020. We are working with international partners to move the development of sustainable 
aviation biofuels from testing to production 
to everyday use. We’re engaged with the global industry to reduce hazardous chemicals used in our products and improve 
the efficiency of the global air traffic network, 
which will significantly reduce emissions. 
We also continuously invest in breakthrough 
technologies to meet our customers’ demand for precision performance coupled 
with game-changing environmental 
improvements.
In a time of rapid change, Boeing is 
committed to responsible environmental 
leadership and sustainable growth— 
building a better Boeing and helping build  a better planet.To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment 2
Our Commitment:  
Performance Targets In 2007 , Boeing unveiled our first-ever five-year  
 environmental performance targets: reducing  
 energy use, carbon emissions, water intake and  
hazardous-waste generation by 1 percent on an  
 absolute basis in our factories and offices. 
At the time, we anticipated these goals 
would equal a 25 percent reduction on a revenue-adjusted basis. As detailed in the 
Results section, we surpassed the absolute 
targets. Given the unprecedented growth in our core business, we met the revenue-adjusted goals for reducing carbon dioxide 
emissions and hazardous waste, but missed 
the targets for energy use and water intake.
Looking ahead to the next five years, we 
remain committed to zero-carbon growth by continuing our environmental conservation 
efforts while ramping up production. Our 
goal is to achieve zero absolute growth in carbon emissions, water intake and solid waste sent to landfills, and zero revenue-
adjusted growth in hazardous waste 
generation, by 2017.
Our framework for continued progress 
includes considering environmental performance measures throughout a 
product’s life cycle, starting with design and 
manufacturing and extending through in-service use and end-of-service recycling and disposal. We call this life cycle approach 
Design for Environment. It analyzes and reduces the environmental footprint at each 
phase of a product’s life.
Since most of an aircraft’s lifetime carbon 
emissions occur while in service, it is 
critical to design and build our products with sustainable technologies to reduce the environmental footprint and increase 
customer value.
With Design for Environment, engineers 
making design decisions consider environmental performance measures that will reduce energy use, carbon emissions, 
water intake, hazardous materials and noise, 
while increasing the use of sustainable materials.
Aerospace is a complex, interconnected 
global industry with equally complex 
environmental challenges. Over the next five years, Boeing will continue to collaborate with industry groups, suppliers and regulators to improve the environmental 
performance of global aviation.
Boeing is a leader in global efforts to 
accelerate the development of sustainable aviation biofuels, which offer a cleaner alternative to petroleum-based fuels,  
and to improve the efficiency and environmental performance of global air 
traffic management.
We will continue to work with the aerospace 
industry to reach the goal of recycling 90 percent of a retired airplane by 2016. 
Boeing was instrumental in forming the 
Aircraft Fleet Recycling Association, which has grown to more than 40 members working to develop sustainable solutions to recycling aircraft at the end-of-service.Engineers, from left, 
Marty Bradley, Chris Droney and Zach Hoisington, design a future aircraft with greatly reduced fuel burn and environmen-tal footprint. Boeing considers environ-mental performance measures throughout a product’s life cycle, starting with design and manufactur -
ing, and extending through in-service use and end-of-service recycling and disposal. (Boeing photo)To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment 3Boeing tests advanced 
jet engine technology at NASA’s Stennis Space Center in Mississippi. Innovative applications of materi-als such as composite matrix ceramics will make engines quieter, lighter and more effi-cient. (Boeing photo)
More than 75 percent of Boeing’s commercial 
airplane R&D efforts contribute to advancing environmentally progressive innovations.
Designing with the environment in mind 
means our engineers “design in” greater efficiency in energy and water use and sustainable materials and “design out” 
carbon emissions, hazardous materials 
and community noise. We call the strategy Design for Environment. It analyzes and reduces a product’s environmental footprint over its life cycle, starting with design and 
manufacturing and extending through in-
service use and end-of-service recycling and disposal. 
In 2012 we successfully met key milestones 
in research and development programs that 
will bring to market the next generation of more fuel-efficient airplanes and accelerate the market readiness of advanced materials and environmentally progressive 
technologies. 
EcoDemonstrator 
Boeing’s ecoDemonstrator Program accelerates technology that will improve 
the environmental performance and 
sustainability of the aviation industry. Each ecoDemonstrator airplane tests and applies new technologies and materials that make Boeing aircraft cleaner, quieter and more 
fuel-efficient.A key part of the ecoDemonstrator Program 
is a unique partnership with the airlines, aviation industry and the Federal Aviation 
Administration’s CLEEN (Continuous Lower 
Energy Emissions and Noise) program. Over the next several years, the FAA will help fund parts of the program; for example, testing of 
airframe and engine technologies designed 
to increase the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and community noise.
The ecoDemonstrator program’s inaugural 
flight in 2012 used a Next-Generation  
737-800 in partnership with American 
Airlines to test a range of innovations, including:
  Wing-adaptive trailing edges to reduce noise and improve fuel efficiency at takeoff, climb and cruising altitudes. 
  A regenerative hydrogen fuel cell as an alternative source of cabin power with the potential to reduce fuel consumption 
and carbon emissions.
  Advanced flight trajectory and in-
flight planning technology that enable more fuel-efficient routes and future 
improvements in air traffic management.
The second ecoDemonstrator, scheduled to 
fly in late 2013, will use a 787 Dreamliner to test a new suite of emerging technologies. 
One innovative engine technology selected 
Meredith Anderson, flight test engineering analyst, 
collects data and monitors the performance aboard the inaugural ecoDemonstrator airplane. (Boeing photo)Designing the Future:  
New Technology Innovations in technology and engineering play a  
 key role in continuously improving the environmental  
 performance of our products. To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment 4
for the demonstration flight is an exhaust 
nozzle made of ceramic matrix composite material, designed to make engines quieter, 
lighter and more efficient. (See ‘Taking the 
Heat’ feature article on page 5.)
New-generation high-efficiency jet engines 
emit hotter exhaust gases and require 
materials that can withstand higher 
temperatures than titanium or super alloys, which have been industry standard for decades. Boeing researchers believe ceramic-based material could better 
support higher performing, more efficient 
jet engines that will reduce fuel burn and carbon emissions.  
Aircraft Recycling 
The end of an aircraft’s commercial 
service does not mean the end of use for its components and materials. Recycling airplanes significantly reduces waste and cuts the need for new materials, which 
helps reduce aviation’s overall environmental 
footprint. Advanced composite carbon fibers and metals such as aluminum are among the materials that can be recycled 
into new products.
Boeing was a leader in forming the Aircraft 
Fleet Recycling Association, which has grown to more than 40 members committed to the goal of recycling up to 90 percent of 
a retired airplane by 2016. Boeing is leading 
industry efforts to continue researching and developing improved recycling technologies and processes. 
Boeing also collaborates with the University 
of Nottingham, England, on developing carbon fiber recycling processes and technology to process recycled fiber into new applications and products.Cooling Without Power—New Cabin Technology Innovative technology that reduces the 
environmental impacts of air travel isn’t 
limited to the aircraft’s fuselage or engines. Boeing has designed an insulated galley cart that will keep food and beverages cold for 
up to 17 hours without the use of traditional 
chillers, which are heavy and noisy and require significant maintenance and power. 
The lighter cart reduces the aircraft’s 
weight, which also cuts fuel use and carbon 
emissions. Engineers estimate the insulated 
cart could save approximately 5 million pounds (2,300 metric tons) of fuel and 15.8 million pounds (7,200 metric tons) of carbon 
dioxide over the service life of a single 777. 
The insulated carts won a 2013 Crystal 
Cabin Award, an international environmental recognition from the Aircraft Interiors Expo in Hamburg, Germany, which is the largest 
aircraft cabin interiors show in the world. 
Boeing previously won a Crystal Cabin 
award for co-designing 100 percent recyclable aircraft carpet tiles. Boeing 
and supplier InterfaceFLOR developed 
the carpet, which reduces the use of raw materials in production and the amount of waste sent to landfills.
A hydrokinetic turbine is readied for placement in 
the St. Lawrence River near Montreal, Canada. Boeing and Canadian firm Renewable Energy  Research are collaborating on expanding the use of this new source of hydroelectric power. In January 2013, Boeing and RER signed a mem-orandum of understanding with the government of Quebec to install a six-turbine pilot project in the St. Lawrence River. The turbines provide consistent power without disrupting the river flow or surrounding natural habitat. (Boeing photo)To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment 5
 
Engineer Craig Wilsey inspects an engine nozzle made of composite matrix ceramics. (Boeing photo)
Even for an engineering manager who sees a 
lot of impressive technology, the engine exhaust nozzle made of ceramic matrix composite (CMC) material is a remarkable feat of engineering.
“The nozzle center body—the tapered part at 
the aft end of the engine—is nearly 8 feet tall. The outer nozzle that wraps around it is 5 feet in diameter. At the start of the program, before the CMC team fabricated this nozzle, the largest ceramic composite part fabricated was about the size of a notebook,” says Craig Wilsey, leader of Boeing’s CLEEN program.“To produce the two largest ceramic composite objects on Earth, following specs that make it perform correctly on a jet engine, is a great team accomplishment.”
CLEEN, or Continuous Lower Energy Emissions 
and Noise, is a five-year joint research-and-development effort with the Federal Aviation Administration. Its purpose is to accelerate the development of new technology that will lead to cleaner and quieter aircraft.
The ceramic matrix composite nozzle is one of 
the technologies selected to be tested onboard the next ecoDemonstrator flight, scheduled for late 2013. Wilsey said the advanced nozzle can play a big role in the next generation of more fuel-efficient engines.
“To be at peak efficiency, engines need to run 
extremely hot in their core—as much as 3,600 degrees Fahrenheit. The exhaust reaches over 1,200 degrees. Very few materials can stand up to that harsh environment. Ceramic composites can do the job, and thereby be a key enabler to better, more fuel-efficient engines,” Wilsey says.
For the CMC team, the chance to test the 
nozzle onboard the ecoDemonstrator is a unique opportunity they didn’t want to miss. “We are true believers in technology demonstration projects, like the ecoDemonstrator. You have the chance to learn so much more about your technology when it’s integrated onboard a real airplane in a flight test. It greatly improves its chances for a successful transition,” he says.
Wilsey sees the CLEEN program’s focus on 
environmentally progressive technology as another big opportunity for Boeing. “What personally appealed to me about this program was the chance to make a real, tangible impact on our products through technologies that reduce fuel burn, emissions and community noise,” Wilsey says.
Taking the heat
Innovation video series—Cleaner skies ahead
Click here to learn more.To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment 6With innovative 
winglets, other design enhancements and advanced engines, the 737 MAX will burn 13 percent less fuel and generate fewer emissions with a 40 percent smaller community noise footprint compared to its predecessor.  (Boeing photo)
In 2012 we introduced into service the  
747-8 Intercontinental, the passenger 
version of the redesigned 747, with 
significant environmental improvements  
over its predecessor. Development 
continues on the 737 MAX, a new  airplane with advanced technology that  
will create a cleaner, quieter and more 
energy efficient addition to the 737 family.
737 MAX 
The 737 MAX is the newest addition to the already most fuel-efficient single-
aisle aircraft on the market—the Next-
Generation 737. The MAX will feature substantial environmental improvements, including burning 13 percent less fuel 
with a corresponding reduction in carbon 
emissions, and a 40 percent smaller community noise footprint compared to  its predecessor. 
The better environmental performance 
comes from a package of design and 
technology advances, including quieter and more fuel-efficient engines, an aerodynamically improved tail section 
that reduces drag on the aircraft, and the Advanced Technology winglet, a “dual-
feather” split winglet design, which is more efficient than any other wingtip currently in 
use on a single-aisle airplane.
787 Dreamliner 
The 787 is the environmental benchmark for the aerospace industry. With advanced 
engines and a composite carbon-fiber 
fuselage and wings, the Dreamliner is 20 percent more fuel-efficient than other airplanes of comparable size and more environmentally progressive throughout 
its life cycle. The airplane is manufactured 
using fewer hazardous materials, consumes less fuel and produces fewer emissions. The Dreamliner is also quieter for airport 
communities than other twin-aisle airplanes. 
747-8 
The 747-8 Intercontinental and Freighter incorporate many of the breakthrough technology advances developed for the 
787 Dreamliner, the most environmentally 
progressive aircraft on the market.
With advanced engines, new wing design 
and light-weight advanced aluminum alloys and composite materials, the 747-8 reduces fuel consumption and carbon emissions by 14 percent, and has a 30 percent smaller 
noise footprint than the 747-400 it replaced. 
The quieter aircraft has earned a rating of “QC2” or better on takeoffs and landings. The rating on the international noise measure  
allows the 747-8 to use almost any airport without operating restrictions.
Lufthansa took delivery of the first 747-8 
Intercontinental in 2012. The 747-8 Freighter entered service a year earlier.
Designing the Future:  
Cleaner Products Boeing continues to be a pioneer in introducing  
 innovative new technology that improves the  
 environmental performance of our products  
 and services.To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment 7
 
Engineer Josh Frommer found childhood aerospace inspiration by designing and building LEGO
® airplanes. Frommer today  
is configuration leader on the 737 MAX.  (Boeing photo)
Engineer Josh Frommer has been designing and 
building airplanes since first grade. “My parents gave me a set of space LEGO blocks when I was six and that was it; I knew what I wanted to do. I’ve been interested in airplanes and aviation ever since,” he says.
Frommer’s love of airplanes led him through 
graduate school in engineering and to Boeing, where today he is the configuration leader on the 737 MAX program. “I make sure the design and all of the systems and technology integrate seamlessly on the airplane.”
The design and technology on the MAX 
are coming together to drive substantial improvements in the aircraft’s environmental performance. Frommer said the MAX will increase fuel efficiency and reduce carbon emissions by 13 percent as well as improve the aircraft’s noise footprint by 40 percent, compared to the Next-Generation 737.
One of the first noticeable changes on the 737 
MAX is the Advanced Technology winglet, which combines a curved wingtip with a split “dual-feather” design. “We wanted to see how we could make better winglets on the MAX. The wingtip effectively gives us a longer wing span, which improves the airplane’s aerodynamic performance and, along with advanced design, accounts for 1 percent of the reduced fuel burn and carbon emissions,” Frommer says.
“If you look at a bird or a sail plane, longer, thinner 
wings are always better for cruising. That’s the effect we’re getting.”
Frommer said Boeing’s experience with 
developing the 787 Dreamliner is making a difference on the 737 MAX. “What’s great is we are able to apply a lot of what we learned on the 787 and our understanding of aerodynamics to the 737 winglet. 
And it doesn’t stop there. Our experience with the 
MAX will lead to more efficient designs for future airplanes, not just on winglets, but on wings, tails and engines, too,” Frommer says.
The major contributor to the improved fuel 
efficiency on the 737 MAX is a new advanced engine—LEAP 1B—from manufacturer CFM, which is a partnership between GE Aviation and Snecma, of France. “The MAX will benefit from technology GE developed for engines used on  the 787 and 747-8,” Frommer says. 
A redesigned aft body, which includes the 
horizontal stabilizer and tail cone, accounts  
for another 1 percent of the improved performance on the MAX, compared to the  
Next-Generation 737.
Frommer said one of the best parts of working 
on a new airplane such as the 737 is seeing everyone come together and agreeing on the best path forward. “When we can agree that what we’re doing is best not just for one group or program, but for The Boeing Company and our customers, and it’s worth all the effort; when we all say ‘yes,’ it feels really good.”
Innovation video series—Better wings for a better planetThe real thing
Click here to learn more.To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment 8The Phantom Eye 
is a long-endurance unmanned vehicle designed to stay airborne for up to four days powered by clean-burning hydro-gen, which leaves only water in the atmo-sphere. (Boeing photo)
In 2012 Boeing reached important mile-
stones in testing two prototype aircraft de-signs that hold the promise of substantially 
cleaner, quieter and more efficient flight.
Phantom Eye 
The hydrogen-powered Phantom Eye completed its third flight in April 2013 and 
successfully demonstrated a cleaner burn-
ing propulsion system that leaves only water in the atmosphere. 
During the flight, Phantom Eye climbed to 
10,000 feet (3,050 meters) and remained 
aloft for two hours and 15 minutes—a 
significant increase from its second flight in February when the aircraft reached 8,000 feet (2,400 meters) during a 67-minute flight.
Engineers expect test flights to continue in 
2013 as the Phantom Eye moves toward the goal of reaching its target altitude of 65,000 feet.
The Phantom Eye is a long-endurance 
unmanned vehicle designed to stay airborne 
for up to four days at altitudes of up to 65,000 feet, powered by two, four-cylinder hydrogen engines. The Phantom Eye’s first 
flight test was in June 2012.
Hydrogen has three times the energy con-
tent per pound of conventional fuels, which means more performance out of less fuel. Technology demonstration projects such as the Phantom Eye will help Boeing expand its 
knowledge of hydrogen’s potential for other 
applications and aircraft.
X-48C 
The Boeing X-48C research aircraft com-
pleted its 30th flight in early 2013, success-
fully wrapping up a nearly year-long test program that further explored and validated the aerodynamic characteristics of the blended wing body design concept.
The X-48C research aircraft blends the wing 
and body in a new design concept that Boeing is testing to determine the aircraft’s potential of significantly greater fuel efficien-
cy and reduced noise. 
The blended wing body is a departure from 
the conventional tube-and-wing airplane design in favor of a triangular aircraft that effectively merges the vehicle’s wing and 
body. The blended body helps to generate 
additional lift with less drag compared to a circular fuselage.
Boeing and its research partners NASA 
and the U.S. Air Force Research Labora-
tory are testing to determine if the blended wing body concept offers the potential of significantly greater fuel efficiency and reduced noise. The X-48C is a scale model of an aircraft with a 240-foot wingspan that 
possibly could be developed in the next 15 
to 20 years for military applications such as aerial refueling and cargo missions.
The X-48C research aircraft blends the wing 
and body in a new design concept that Boeing is testing to determine the aircraft’s potential of significantly greater fuel efficiency and reduced noise. (Boeing photo)Designing the Future:  
Future Flight Boeing is researching and developing new aircraft  
 designs and propulsion systems that may be the  
 next step in the evolution of aerospace and a big leap  
 forward in sustainable technology.To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment 9
Innovation video series—An eye in the sky
A flight toward the futureClick here to learn more.
Click here to learn more.To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment 10Daylight fills the 
renovated Chinook helicopter assembly factory in Philadelphia. Using more natural light and installing new, more efficient boilers have helped the site substantially reduce energy use.  (Boeing photo)
We also diverted enough solid waste from 
landfills to fill 13,000 dump trucks. The re-ductions are the results of aggressive efforts 
across the company to meet ambitious 
five-year goals set in 2007 to reduce the environmental footprint of Boeing opera-tions. The targets were set during a time of 
unprecedented growth, when production 
increased by 50 percent. (Specific targets and outcomes are outlined in the Results section.) 
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 
recognized our progress by naming Boeing 
an ENERGY STAR
® Partner of the Year 
for 2013—the third consecutive year we earned the recognition. By receiving the 
honor three years in a row, Boeing moves 
into the award’s Sustained Excellence category. 
During the next five years—while aircraft 
production continues to increase—Boeing 
is committed to zero absolute growth in greenhouse gas emissions, solid waste to landfill and water intake, and zero intensity growth in hazardous-waste generation. 
The improvements in Boeing’s environmen-
tal performance are due in large measure to innovative projects—often led by employee teams—at facilities across the enterprise. Philadelphia The renovation of the Chinook helicopter 
assembly factory—housed in a building 
originally constructed in 1929—generated substantial environmental improvements and related cost savings to our Philadelphia site. New windows and skylights through-
out the factory let in natural light, reducing 
energy use. 
The site replaced two 1920s-era boilers 
and one 1970s-era boiler that ran on fuel 
oil with new, natural gas-fired boilers, which 
are over 30 percent more energy efficient. The switch will cut the site’s carbon dioxide emissions by an estimated 4,200 metric tons annually, a 14 percent reduction. That’s 
equivalent to the amount of carbon dioxide 
absorbed by a 1 square mile (260 hectares) of pine forest containing more than 100,000 mature trees.
The new boilers also save the site $1 million 
a year in lower energy bills. The improve-ments won the site the 2013 Pennsylvania Environmental Council Governor’s award for environmental excellence. 
Long Beach, Calif. 
An aggressive conservation strategy is reducing waste and earning special rec-ognition for facilities across Boeing’s Long 
Beach, Calif., site.  
 One of the largest thin-film solar installations in 
the United States, as measured by production capacity, can be found on the roof of Boeing’s newest final assembly building at the North Charleston, S.C., facility. (Boeing photo)Innovating to Zero:  
Cleaner Buildings Over the past five years, Boeing saved enough  
 energy to power 44,000 U.S. homes for a year and  
 reduced enough greenhouse gas emissions to equal  
 removing 87 ,000 cars from the road for a year.To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment 11
Over the past five years, the Long Beach 
Douglas Center has cut its electricity use  
by more than 48 percent, natural gas by  
72 percent, and water intake by 25 percent. 
In 2012, the Douglas Center again earned the EPA’s ENERGY STAR Challenge for Industry award, making Boeing the first 
company to win the honor three times for  
a single facility. The award is given each  time a facility reduces energy intensity by 10 percent over a five-year period.  
The Long Beach C-17 Globemaster III final 
assembly facility also achieved the EPA’s 
Energy Star Challenge for Industry award—one of the first heavy manufacturing sites in Boeing to earn the recognition. 
The City of Long Beach recognized the 
C-17 program with a sustainability award for efforts to reduce energy and water use as well as to increase recycling rates.
Thanks to efforts at each facility, Long 
Beach joins Boeing sites in Charleston, 
S.C., Huntsville, Ala., Philadelphia and Salt Lake City in sending no solid waste to land-fills. Boeing defines “zero waste to landfill” 
to include, at a minimum, all solid waste 
generated by operations. It does not include hazardous waste, which is handled in accor -
dance with applicable regulations. 
Everett, Wash. 
Direct employee involvement in conservation 
and waste-reduction efforts played a big role in helping our largest manufacturing facility in Everett, Wash., make big gains in 
reducing its environmental footprint over the 
past five years. The site:
  Eliminated 97.2 million pounds or  
4,860 truckloads of solid waste from going to landfills.
  Increased recycling rate by 17 percent from 42 percent to 59 percent for paper, metal, cardboard, wood, Styrofoam and 
other materials.
  Implemented energy conservation 
projects that saved nearly 33 million kilo-watt-hours of energy, enough to power 
2,540 homes for one year.
Site employees also eliminated 500  
million commuter miles through alternative  
commuting programs, which reduced  
vehicle greenhouse gas emissions by 410 
million pounds.St. Louis 
By finding creative ways to substantially 
increase the amount of water it reuses on-site instead of discharging into local storm sewers, the St. Louis site cut its water use 
by 20 percent since 2007. The main water 
saving strategy has been to switch from “single-pass” to “closed-loop” cooling sys-tems, which continually reuse and recircu-late water through the site’s cooling towers.
Energy Use 
Boeing relies on carbon-free hydroelectric and renewable energy sources for nearly half of our total electricity consumption. Hy-
dropower provides more than 80 percent of 
electricity to our facilities in the Seattle area. 
One of the largest thin-film solar installations 
in the United States, as measured by pro-duction capacity, can be found on the roof 
of Boeing’s newest final assembly building 
at the North Charleston, S.C., facility. The system covers 10 acres (4 hectares) and generates 2.6 megawatts at peak produc-
tion from 18,000 solar panels, or enough 
electricity to power approximately 250 residential homes. 
LEED 
Boeing designs all new construction and 
major renovation projects to meet a LEED 
Silver rating or higher. LEED, or Leader -
ship in Energy and Environmental Design, provides a rating system based on multiple 
factors including the energy and water effi-
ciency of a building, improved indoor envi-ronmental quality, and the use of sustainable sources during construction. 
Boeing has LEED-certified buildings com-
pleted or in-work in California, Illinois, Ore-
gon, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Texas, Utah, Washington and Washington, D.C., in addition to our joint venture composite 
manufacturing building in Tianjin, China.
ISO 14001 
Certification to the internationally recognized ISO 14001 environmental management standard has strengthened our company-
wide focus on continuous improvement and  
enabled a common way of managing envi-
ronmental processes across the company.
All major manufacturing facilities are certified 
to ISO 14001 standards, including the 
following locations: U.S. Locations: 
Alabama: Huntsville 
Arizona: Mesa California: El Segundo, Huntington Beach, Long Beach, Palmdale, Seal Beach, Sylmar, 
San Diego, Taft and Torrance 
Georgia: Macon Illinois: St. Clair Kansas: Wichita Missouri: St. Charles and St. Louis 
Oregon: Portland 
Pennsylvania: Philadelphia South Carolina: Charleston Texas: El Paso, Houston and San Antonio 
Utah: Salt Lake City 
Washington: Auburn, Bellevue, Everett, Frederickson, Kent, Renton, Seattle and Tukwila 
International Locations: 
Australia: Amberley, Bankstown, Fishermans 
Bend, Oakey and Williamtown  Canada: Winnipeg  China: Tianjin 
Malaysia: Asian Composite Manufacturing, 
in Bukit Kayu Hitam United Kingdom: Bristol, Knaresborough and Welwyn Garden City To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment 12
 
Facilities engineer Jeff Haberman and a team in Long Beach, Calif., have helped the site cut electricity use in half and water intake by 25 percent. (Boeing photo)
In creating some of the most energy-efficient 
buildings at Boeing, facilities engineers at the Long Beach, Calif., site wanted to be sure employees could be directly involved in monitoring and managing their work environment. 
“Anyone working in the buildings can use their 
computer or a touch screen monitor near the elevators to graphically see if the building temperature in their area is within the target range,” explains Jeff Haberman, facilities engineer. Since equipment is turned off outside of regular business hours to conserve energy, employees can override the system for additional lighting and air-conditioning.Encouraging employee involvement is one of the strategies that have enabled the Long Beach Douglas Center—the site’s main nonmanufacturing facility—to cut its electricity use by almost 50 percent, natural gas use by  72 percent, and water use by 25 percent in the past five years. 
In 2012, the Douglas Center again earned the 
EPA’s ENERGY STAR Challenge for Industry award, making Boeing the first company to win the honor three times for a single facility. The award is given to a facility that reduces energy consumption by 10 percent within a five-year period. 
Haberman says the site has been relentless in 
eliminating waste and improving the efficiency of its heating and air-conditioning systems. For example, the site now uses “all-variable” heating and cooling systems, which provide the optimum temperatures and system pressures for specific conditions at any given time. 
“The systems used to be programmed to provide 
temperatures and pressures required to cool a building to match the estimated hottest days of the year. But it only hit the hottest temperature a few hours a year. The rest of the time an enormous amount of energy was being wasted,” Haberman says.
Another energy-saving step was to operate the 
exhaust fans in the underground parking garage only when they were needed, instead of 24 hours a day. “Sensors were installed to energize the fans only when the carbon monoxide levels exceeded a maximum point. The fans operated only a couple of times in the past few years,” Haberman says.
Heating, cooling and light levels are also adjusted 
in the evening to save energy. Haberman says the conservation plan exceeded the most optimistic computer model projections for the amount of energy saving opportunities. “We blew away the computer models. The actual system performance and investment payback are much better than anticipated,” he says.
Their success also is due to good teamwork, 
Haberman says. “We had great collaboration with Andrew Lopez, Southwest Region mechanical expert. A team can accomplish a lot more than any one individual.”
For Haberman, the most satisfying part of the 
site’s conservation efforts has been the feedback from employees. “People really like being in this building. They come up and say, ‘I want you to know how much we appreciate what you’re doing.’ It makes them feel good about working at Boeing. That’s pretty cool.”
Award-winning improvements
 Environmental engineer Gary Buford tests water quality at the St. Louis site, which has cut water intake by 20 percent over the past five years. (Boeing photo)
Gary Buford knows water. The environmental 
engineer has been at Boeing’s St. Louis site for 30 years, much of that time testing and monitoring water quality, and managing waste water treatment and discharge. Buford estimates at one point the site was using more than a million gallons of water a day, with one-third of it going down the drain—being discharged into the local storm sewer.
“Boeing implemented aggressive environmental 
targets to reduce our use of water, along with energy and hazardous waste. We found solutions that helped us meet the goals and address tougher waste water regulations from the local water district,” Buford says. “We thought it was the right time to reduce our water intake and reuse water in as many ways as we could.”
A St. Louis team of environmental scientists and 
facilities leaders designed a water conservation plan that focused on eliminating a huge source of waste at the site: “single pass” uses of water. In a single-pass process, county water is used to cool a piece of equipment and then discharged directly into the storm sewer.
The team found many single-pass water uses 
and provided a “closed-loop” alternative. In a closed-loop system, water used on-site is sent to the cooling tower for reuse, instead of being discharged into the storm sewer. Buford says the closed-loop systems and other conservation projects are saving the site millions of gallons of water a year and substantially lowering costs.
The site has reduced water use by 20 percent 
since 2007, and more conservation projects are planned in 2013. Buford says he feels a lot of personal satisfaction from seeing the improvements the site has already made. “I’ve  got the best job in St. Louis, in my opinion.”
Reduce and reuseTo learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment 13
 
A team of environmentally active employees has been instrumental in reducing solid waste sent to landfills and boosting recycling at Boeing’s massive parts warehouse near Seattle, Wash. Pictured top row, from left, are Desmond Chanez and Joe Schoepfer; bottom row, from left, are Sandy Holtman, Dave Mulhall, and Dae Groseclose. (Boeing photo)
A team of environmentally active employees at 
the Spares Distribution Center in Seattle started helping the massive warehouse reduce energy use and waste by bringing their personal recycling and conservation habits from home into the workplace.
“I live out in the country and don’t have a lot 
of services. We take care of trash hauling and recycling ourselves. When they started this team, I thought there are things I do at home that we could do here on a larger scale,” says Bill Woomer, materials processing facilitator. 
Teammate Dave Mulhall agrees. “We got good 
project ideas from brainstorming: What do you do at home? What do you see in the warehouse?”
The team’s brainstorming and conservation 
ideas have helped make a big difference: the warehouse reduced the amount of trash sent to landfills by 70 percent, from 122 tons annually in 2009 to 38 tons in 2011. The percentage of solid waste recycled has jumped from 77 percent to  93 percent. 
The team of volunteers came together in 2009. 
Their first big project was to tackle the enormous amount of waste being dumped in the trash and sent to landfills. “When boxes and crates would come into receiving, someone would open the container, inspect the part, and throw away all of the packaging material. But then someone else would use new material to repackage the part for storage. It didn’t make sense,” says fellow team member Dean Ramert. 
“We started saving and reusing the packaging 
from incoming containers and reducing how much new packing material we bought. It made a huge difference right from the start,” he says.
“That project was one of our early successes, and 
I think it encouraged the team that, yes, we can make a difference,” Mulhall adds.
Another tactic for reducing incoming waste 
has been to work directly with suppliers. “If our employees in receiving see a part arrive with a “packaging discrepancy”—such as four bolts shipped in a huge box stuffed with paper—we’ll contact the supplier and recommend different packaging,” Ramert says. 
Environmentally progressive standards for 
reducing shipping waste also are part of all supplier contracts, he says.
The team has made it easier for warehouse 
employees to recycle and reduce waste by adding more recycling bins throughout the facility and reducing the number of garbage cans. 
The distribution center’s success in reducing 
waste and improving efficiency is part of Boeing’s environmental leadership, Ramert says. “It’s part of what we call the Boeing Edge. Protecting the environment and continually improving our operations are core values that help make us a global leader.”
Team tackles wasteTo learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment 14A biofilter storm water 
treatment system uses natural processes to capture pollutants be-fore releasing cleaner water back into the watershed at the Santa Susana remediation site. (Boeing photo)
Boeing’s remediation program is guided by 
input from neighborhood and community groups and close collaboration with federal, 
state and local regulatory agencies. Boeing’s 
community outreach and public education programs received special recognition in 2012 from the U.S. Environmental Protec-
tion Agency and the Wildlife Habitat Council.
Remediation is largely performed at former 
manufacturing sites and facilities where Boeing, or acquired companies, shipped chemicals and other waste for treatment, 
storage or disposal. In many cases, 
waste-processing facilities that used treat-ment methods considered best practices in the past are being cleaned up to meet or 
exceed current environmental standards.
The Lower Duwamish Waterway 
In early 2013 Boeing completed the first phase of removing an estimated 200,000 cubic yards (152,911 cubic meters) of 
contaminated sediment and replacing it with 
clean sand along a half-mile stretch of the Lower Duwamish Waterway near its former Plant 2 site in Seattle. Construction also be-
gan on the first section of a planned 5-acre 
(2-hectare) wetland and habitat project that will provide an important ecological resource to improve Puget Sound fish runs.
Dredging the riverbed and restoring the 
waterway’s shoreline and wildlife habitat  are expected to be completed by 2015.  
Boeing’s Plant 2 was demolished in  
2011 to make way for the cleanup and  
restoration project.  
This work at the former Plant 2 site is one of 
several “early actions” in the larger Super -
fund project to clean-up a five-mile stretch 
of the industrial Lower Duwamish Waterway. 
Boeing is one partner—along with the city of Seattle, King County, the Port of Seattle and other businesses along the waterway—in the overall cleanup effort. 
Santa Susana 
Boeing is using natural processes to help clean up storm water at its Santa Susana site. Engineers installed an innovative biofil-
ter storm water treatment system that uses 
natural settling, plants, soil processes and specially designed filter media to capture sediment and pollutants before releasing cleaner water back into the watershed.
The newly installed $600,000 system sup-
ports Boeing’s overall strategy to use natural processes to treat storm water at Santa Su-sana and is one component of the compa-
ny’s comprehensive surface water treatment 
program. This system supplements other state-of-the art treatment systems the com-pany is utilizing to manage storm water and groundwater at the site.
Boeing completed the first phase of removing 
contaminated sediment and replacing it with clean sand along a half-mile stretch of the Lower Duwamish Waterway. (Boeing photo)Innovating to Zero:  
Remediation In the past year, Boeing has met key milestones  
 and is making steady progress in cleaning up and  
 restoring the environment at sites affected by past 
business practices.To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment 15
Click here to learn more.
Turning the tideSince acquiring a portion of the site in 1996 
as part of the defense and space business-es of Rockwell International, Boeing’s team 
of geologists, engineers and experts in 
surface water, ground water and radiation have been working to clean up the 2,850-acre (1,153-hectare) facility. 
Other Santa Susana cleanup activities 
include removing or treating 74,000 cubic yards—enough to fill 4,625 dump trucks—of contaminated soil; installing 400 ground-water monitoring and extraction wells; 
adding an advanced groundwater treatment 
system; removing 400 buildings, tanks, test stands and structures; and replanting 900 acres of land with native vegetation and 
reseeding the area with native plants and 
grasses. The company’s goal is to complete the cleanup and preserve the site as open space park land.
The site is increasingly recognized as a 
critical bird and pollinator habitat, and in 
2012 the national Wildlife Habitat Council awarded Boeing the “Corporate Lands for Learning” certification to honor the compa-
ny’s education programs at Santa Susana.Chemical Commodities, Inc. 
The EPA recognized Boeing’s environmental achievements in 2012 with one of its highest 
honors—the Leading Environmentalism and 
Forwarding Sustainability (LEAFS) award—for the company’s work cleaning up and revitalizing a Superfund site in Olathe, Kan. 
It was the first time the EPA presented the 
award in Region 7, which covers several Midwestern states.
The 1.5-acre (0.6-hectare) Chemical Com-
modities, Inc. site near Kansas City was 
operated as a chemical brokerage and recy-
cling facility. Rocketdyne, which was briefly part of Boeing, shipped wastes to the site for recycling for a short time in the 1960s.
Boeing completed construction of the final 
cleanup remedy in 2011, a full year ahead of schedule. In presenting the LEAFS award, the EPA credited much of the project’s suc-cess to Boeing’s extensive outreach to the 
public and community groups in plans to 
restore the site and provide pollinator habitat and educational benefits to the community.
The EPA now includes lessons learned 
from the CCI project in presentations to its project managers about how other sites can 
implement similar strategies.
Huntington Beach 
An innovative use of treated groundwater 
to cool buildings at Boeing’s Huntington Beach, Calif., site is helping the environment and earning praise for the company’s reme-
diation program from state officials.
Instead of discharging treated ground- 
water from a site remediation project into the storm sewer, engineers instead  
designed a system that routes the water 
to the facility’s cooling tower. This system 
reduces the facility’s dependence on the city water supply by up to 70 thousand gallons per day, with the overall reuse estimate to 
be approximately 18 million gallons per year.To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment 16Boeing plays a major 
role in global environ-mental research that is helping the commer -
cial aviation industry achieve its goals of carbon-neutral growth from 2020.  (Boeing photo)
Effective strategies for maintaining and 
reducing current levels of greenhouse gas emissions will be critical as demand for 
worldwide travel continues to increase. By 
some estimates, the current worldwide fleet of 20,000 in-service aircraft will double by 2030. It’s estimated that aviation accounts 
for between 2 and 3 percent of total global 
carbon dioxide emissions, and Boeing is committed to making sure that doesn’t grow as air travel continues to expand.
To achieve this, Boeing is focusing on 
building more fuel-efficient airplanes, 
promoting the development of sustainable aviation biofuels, and improving the efficiency of the global air traffic system.
Sustainable Aviation Biofuels 
More than 1,500 commercial and military flights have been powered by sustainable biofuels, successfully demonstrating the alternative fuels’ performance on a variety of 
aircraft without requiring any modifications 
to the airplanes or engines. A Boeing 747-8 Freighter and 787 Dreamliner were involved in the first transatlantic and transpacific 
biofuels flights in 2011 and 2012.
Boeing is working with international  
partners to help biofuels development move 
from “proof” to production—accelerating the scale-up and commercialization of a 
sustainable biofuels industry.Examples of Boeing’s biofuels partnerships 
include:
  Collaboration with the Sao Paulo Research Foundation and other stakeholders on defining a pathway  
to a viable aviation biofuels industry  
in Brazil.
  In the U.S., collaboration with United Airlines and other stakeholders on the Midwest Aviation Sustainable Biofuels 
Initiative (MASBI).
The projects’ final reports, expected in 
2013, will offer recommendations that can guide research, business and policy 
decisions on developing the aviation  
biofuels industry in each regions.
Boeing also is an active partner in ongoing 
biofuels research initiatives in China and  the UAE. 
In a boost to biofuels growth, in April 
2013 the U.S. Department of Agriculture announced a five-year extension of its biofuels research program with Boeing, the 
Federal Aviation Administration and other 
industry groups. The program’s goal is to support the annual production of 1 billion gallons of drop-in aviation biofuel by 2018. 
A sustainable aviation biofuel meets or 
exceeds jet fuel standards, produces lower carbon emissions over its life cycle, and does not displace food crops or compete 
with water or other land-use resources.  A viable aviation biofuels industry offers an alternative to petroleum-based jet fuel. 
Operational Efficiency— 
Air Traffic Management The 100,000 daily commercial flights at airports around the world are wasting an estimated 8 percent of their fuel—and 
generating unnecessary greenhouse 
gas emissions—because of outdated and inefficient air traffic operations and technology. 
The environmental benefits from improving 
air traffic management and onboard flight technology are substantial: Boeing and the Air Transport Action Group estimate that updating ATM and onboard technology 
could reduce annual fuel consumption by 
9 million tons and CO
2 emissions by 28 
million tons. That’s equivalent to the annual CO
2 emissions from 1.44 million average 
U.S. homes or 5.8 million average vehicles. 
Cutting the average flight time by just one 
minute would save airlines $1.5 billion a year 
in fuel and operating costs. 
Boeing closely collaborates with industry 
groups and international regulators working 
to improve global air traffic efficiency. Germany
Biofuels 
United StatesBiofuelsAir Tr af/f_ic Ef /f_iciency
Renewable Ener gy Saudi ArabiaSolar Ener gyAustraliaResear ch Center
Biofuels 
Composite 
  Manufacturing
Spain / EUResear ch Center
Air Tr af/f_ic Ef /f_iciency
Envir onmentJapan Fuel CellsCanadaFuel Cells
UAEBiofuelsMexicoBiofuelsChinaResear ch Center
Biofuels 
Air Tr af/f_ic 
  Ef/f_iciency
United Kingdom
Carbon Fiber  
  Recyclin gThe NetherlandsBiofuels 
Flight Ef /f_iciencyBrazil
Resear ch Center
Biofuels 
SwitzerlandBiomassBioener gy MalaysiaEnvir onment Inspiring Global  
Collaboration:  Engage the IndustryAs the world’s leading aerospace company,  
Boeing plays a major role in helping the commercial  
 aviation industry achieve its goals of carbon-neutral  
 growth from 2020 and a 50 percent reduction in carbon 
emissions by 2050.To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment 17
 
Engineer Monica Alcabin and a team of avionics engineers evaluate the amount of fuel that can be saved from Boeing-developed technology and strategies. (Boeing photo)
Most air travelers are familiar with the common 
flight delays that happen as aircraft trying to land are told to stay aloft and circle a busy airport, or as they sit on a runway waiting for clearance to take off into increasingly crowded skies. 
Aerospace engineer Monica Alcabin understands 
those delays don’t just burn time. 
“Air traffic controllers follow very detailed 
procedures to keep airplanes separated correctly and in the proper sequence during takeoff and landing. Anytime an airplane is told to level off and slow down, it burns extra fuel, which means more carbon dioxide in the atmosphere and higher costs for the airline,” she says. 
Alcabin and a team of avionics engineers evaluate 
the amount of fuel that can be saved from onboard technology and strategies Boeing has developed to improve the operational efficiency of the global air traffic management system. The challenge and opportunity are substantial. 
Industry experts estimate that updating onboard 
and air traffic management technology could reduce annual airline fuel consumption by 9 million tons, with a corresponding cut in CO
2 
emissions that is equal to taking 5.8 million average vehicles off the road.
To calculate the potential fuel savings, Alcabin first 
looks at the data from a scheduled commercial flight to see how the aircraft actually flew while mixed with other flights. “Then we ask, ‘What if we could design an optimal flight?’ We’ll map out the new flight and work with propulsion experts to compute how much fuel the aircraft would save,” she says.
What is an “optimal” flight? “It’s the way the 
aircraft would fly if it were the only one in the sky. It would have an unrestricted climb after takeoff. Then it would fly at the optimal altitude in the most direct path to its destination,” Alcabin says.
“When it’s ready to descend, the airplane would 
follow an ‘optimized profile descent,’ which would be like gliding into the runway. The aircraft would not have to make numerous turns or level off and waste fuel to fit in with other traffic.”
The benefits from several Boeing-developed flight 
deck technologies have already been proved, Alcabin says. In research funded partially by the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration, Boeing has demonstrated onboard technology that cut fuel consumption and reduced carbon emissions  by up to 35 percent during the descent phase  of a flight.Boeing also has developed GPS-based precision navigation technology that enables aircraft to fly precisely defined routes that reduce miles flown, save fuel and reduce emissions and noise.
Developing the flight deck technology is one step 
in the process. “You don’t get the benefit just by putting the equipment on an airplane. The improvements come when the airplane avionics work with infrastructure and technology on the ground and new airspace procedures. That’s why it’s crucial that we work with customers, industry groups and regulators around the globe,” Alcabin says.
To that end, Alcabin was one of the authors 
of an industry guide, “Accelerating Air Traffic Efficiency – A Call to Industry,” jointly published in 2012 by Boeing and the Civil Air Navigation Services Organization. It’s part of an ambitious plan to improve stakeholders’ understanding of the opportunities in improving global air traffic management.
Flying smarterIn a major step forward in 2012, the 
International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), a United Nations organization, 
adopted a new vision and framework that 
will guide global air traffic improvements. 
The framework is based on “block  
upgrades”—or standardized enhance-
ments—that will help ensure that air 
traffic improvements around the world are coordinated and based on technology  and procedures that operate together safely and efficiently. 
Boeing is an ICAO advisor and member of 
the team that developed the upgrades and recommended improvements. 
Boeing is working directly with Commercial 
Aircraft Corporation of China (COMAC) on 
two joint research projects to improve the  long-term efficiency, safety and environ-mental footprint of China’s commercial aviation system.
In research funded partially by the U.S. 
Federal Aviation Administration, Boeing has demonstrated onboard technology that cut fuel consumption and reduced carbon 
emissions by up to 35 percent during the 
descent and landing phases of a flight. Boeing also has developed GPS-based precision navigation technology that enables aircraft to fly precisely defined routes that 
reduce flight miles, save fuel and reduce 
emissions and noise.To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment 18
Second life for Boeing airplanes
Click here to learn more.To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment 19Don Williams, left,  
and Troy Webster 
prepare the first Next-Generation 737 beam for processing in the new plating facility at Boeing’s Portland, Ore., site. The facility is investigating the possible use of a  
water-based degreas-ing system to reduce the use of solvents, along with other chemical-reduction strategies.  (Boeing photo)
Boeing is leading global collaboration 
that is finding solutions for often complex environmental challenges. 
International Aerospace  
Environmental Group Aerospace companies are required to identify and report chemicals and other 
substances used in the manufacturing of 
their products. It can be a daunting task: thousands of suppliers provide parts for airplanes. Boeing’s 747 has six million parts.
Boeing led the 2011 formation of the 
International Aerospace Environmental 
Group to help the industry develop common standards for working with the global supply chain on chemical regulations and other 
environmental issues. It has grown to 25 
members—including Airbus and several jet engine manufacturers—who together represent over half of total aerospace market revenue. 
The collaboration on chemical requirements 
is timely. The European Union, under the chemical regulation called REACH, has published a list of more than 100 chemicals 
and substances potentially used in aircraft 
manufacture that aerospace companies must report. To help the industry meet these requirements, IAEG has created a voluntary, standardized approach for companies to use with suppliers in collecting the data.
The common industry standard improves 
efficiency, reduces costs by eliminating the need for each company to develop its own system, and encourages the industry to 
identify environmentally responsible ways to 
replace these chemicals.
Later this year, the IAEG will release a 
common standard for collecting and reporting greenhouse gas emissions. The  
group also is developing a standard environmental vocabulary to replace  
multiple forms of jargon used throughout  
the supply chain. 
Hazardous Materials 
Boeing is leading industry efforts to find alternatives for hazardous materials used in manufacturing and operating aircraft. A major focus of research and development is 
on finding replacements for halon, used in 
aviation for fire protection.
Halon alternatives are available or 
undergoing testing to meet stringent 
requirements for use in the passenger 
cabin and flight deck. Two new industry collaborations launch in 2013 to find halon replacements for wider use in the engine, auxiliary power units and cargo 
compartments.
Boeing is helping to establish an industry 
research consortium to accelerate the development of an industrywide non-
halon solution for propulsion systems 
fire protection. Boeing is also leading an industry working group to establish a time frame for developing cargo halon replacements for the International Civil 
Aviation Organization, a United Nations 
organization that promotes global  
aviation safety. 
Inspiring Global  
Collaboration:  PartnershipsMeaningful progress in reducing the environmental  
 impacts of the aerospace industry will require  
 cooperation among airplane manufacturers, their  
 suppliers and customers, and regulators around  
the world.To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment 20
 
Environmental Director Christer Hellstrand leads Boeing’s global collaboration to help the industry meet environmental regulations. (Boeing photo)
It starts with trust. Convincing aerospace 
companies who are often rivals to work together on areas of mutual interest and benefit isn’t necessarily easy. The formation of the International Aerospace Environmental Group (IAEG) is a good example. 
“That was a big hurdle when we first came 
together in 2010. At the time there was little trust among the founding companies,” explains Christer Hellstrand, Boeing’s director of environmental capabilities and compliance. Hellstrand was instrumental in the IAEG’s launch.
“We had Boeing and Airbus, Bombardier and 
Embraer, along with engine manufacturers Rolls-Royce, GE and Pratt & Whitney, and other major drivers in aerospace trying to work together on something entirely new. I’m happy to say that after two years, I think we have built together a high level of trust, which has been critical to the group’s success.”The IAEG began with 11 companies and has grown to 25 members who represent 60 percent of the aerospace industry’s total revenue.
Hellstrand says a foundation for the companies’ 
successful collaboration is a regular pattern and rhythm of working together. It is a simple but effective process for the group to build and maintain momentum. 
“For example, when you’re leading a team in 
a company, you always have what we call a morning ‘standup,’ or a time when the whole team comes together. What is the plan for the day? What help do you need?” 
Hellstrand says it’s more complicated with a 
global team such as the IAEG, but company representatives maintain a schedule of weekly teleconferences, semiannual in-person meetings, and quarterly board meetings. “A regular cadence of coming together is critical, especially for a group of this scope and geographic diversity, if we’re going to make progress.”
And in the past year the IAEG has made good 
progress. It created a voluntary, standardized approach that aerospace companies can use with their suppliers in collecting required chemical data. Later this year, the group will release a common industry standard for the collection of greenhouse gas emissions data. 
There is another key ingredient in the IAEG’s 
success, Hellstrand says. “I think the key was to not give up. It would have been easy to say this is too difficult. Tenacity was critical, and it paid off.”
Building trustTo learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment 21With the close of 2012, the company 
concluded its first-ever five-year goal to improve companywide environmental 
performance: to reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions, energy use, hazardous-waste generation and water intake by 25 percent on a revenue-adjusted basis and by  
1 percent on an absolute basis. 
On an absolute basis, Boeing reduced CO
2 
emissions by 9 percent, energy use by 
3 percent, hazardous waste by 18 percent, 
and water intake by 2 percent since 2007.
On a revenue-adjusted basis, Boeing 
reduced CO2 emissions by 26 percent, 
energy use by 21 percent, hazardous  waste by 33 percent, and water intake by  
20 percent since 2007. In 2012, 79 percent  
of the solid waste we generated was diverted from landfills—a 36 percent 
improvement since 2007. 
Data reported in this section reflects 
environmental performance at the following sites, which represent the vast majority of Boeing’s operations in the United States: Alabama: Huntsville 
Arizona: Mesa 
California: Anaheim; El Segundo; Huntington Beach; and Boeing Defense, Space & Security operations in Long Beach 
Kansas: Boeing Defense, Space & Security 
operations in Wichita Missouri: St. Charles and St. Louis Oregon: Portland Pennsylvania: Philadelphia 
Texas: Houston and San Antonio 
Washington: Auburn, Developmental Center, Everett, Frederickson, Kent Space Center, Moses Lake, North Boeing Field, Plant 2, Renton and Thompson
In some cases, data from additional sites 
and office locations are included. When 
that occurs, it is indicated in the footnotes accompanying data tables and graphs.
The graphs in this section are labeled with 
information rounded to the nearest decimal 
place. However, graphs throughout this Environment Report are calculated using whole values. Consequently, some slight variation may occur for the purpose of 
creating visual presentations. Summary of Envir onmental Performance
2007–2012
        Percent Percent
       Impr ovement Impr ovement
 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Absolute Normalized
Revenue  $66,387 $60,909 $68,281 $64,306 $68,735 $81,698 N/A N/A
(U.S. dollars in millions)  
Employment  159,313 162,191 157,073 160,537 171,175 174,429 N/A N/A
(year end)  
Deliveries  552 474 602 577 592 745 N/A N/A
(commer cial airplanes and defense 
new-build pr oduction air craft) 
CO2 emissions 1.29 1.25 1.21* 1.17* 1.20* 1.17 9% 26%
(in millions of metric tons) 
Energy consumption  12.97 12.71 12.67 12.27 12.87 12.64 3% 21%
(in millions of MMBTUs or 
trillions of British Thermal Units) 
Hazar dous waste 8.99 7.71 8.15 6.94 7.50 7.40 18% 33%
(in thousands of U.S. tons generated) 
Water intake 1.83 1.81 1.71 1.63 1.66 1.80 2% 20%
(in billions of U.S. gallons) 
Solid waste diverted fr om landﬁlls 58% 64% 68% 73% 76% 79% 36% N/A
(as a per centage of total nonhazar dous 
solid waste generated) 
Envir onmental ﬁnes $0.472 $0.024 $0.028 $0.647 $0.226 $0.079 N/A N/A
(U.S. dollars in millions)
*2009–2011 CO 2 emission totals have been adjusted to r eﬂect updated U.S. EP A eGRID factorsOur Results:  
Performance While growing our business, increasing production  
 and hiring more than 13,000 new employees, Boeing  
 has steadily reduced its environmental footprint.
  *2009–2011 CO2 emission numbers are adjusted to reflect the use of updated U.S. EPA regional eGRID factors.
Boeing plays a major role in global environmental 
research that is helping the commercial avia-tion industry achieve its goals of carbon-neutral growth by 2020. (Boeing photo)To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment 22  In addition to data from Boeing’s 23 Core Metric Sites, also includes data from Bellevue, Wash., South Park, Wash., Longacres Park, Wash., 
Spares Distribution Center, Wash., Duwamish Office Park, Wash., Chicago Corporate Headquarters, Boeing Commercial Airplanes’ operations in 
Long Beach, Calif., Seal Beach, Calif., PDX (Portland), Ore. and Boeing South Carolina.
 1 metric ton = approximately 2,204.62 pounds.
  CO2 emissions are calculated based on consumption of electricity, natural gas and fuel oil. (Our facility in Philadelphia is the only major U.S. site 
that uses fuel oil for heating.) Consumption of other fuels is not represented.
  2007–2008 emissions from purchased electricity are calculated using U.S. EPA regional 2010 eGRID electricity CO2 factors (representing 2007 
energy profile); 2009–2012 emission are calculated from 2012 eGRID electricity CO2 factors (representing 2009 energy profile).
  Emissions from natural gas, fuel oil and on-site generated electricity are calculated using the emission factors provided in US EPA GHG 
Mandatory Reporting Rule.
  Comparing with numbers reported last year, 2009–2011 totals have been adjusted to reflect use of U.S. EPA regional 2012 eGRID factors.
  Boeing South Carolina has made arrangements to purchase Renewable Energy Credits (REC), and has offset around 23,000 metric tons of CO2 
emission. Portland also purchased RECs to offset around 3,000 metric tons of its CO2 emission.
Det Norske Veritas provided third-party 
verification of the greenhouse gas emissions data Boeing submitted to the Carbon 
Disclosure Project using the guidance 
provided in ISO 14064 with limited assurance.Carbon Dioxide Emissions
9%
FOR A YEAREQUAL TO TAKINGEmissions reductions
OFF THE ROAD87,000
CARSCUT CO2 
EMISSIONS BYAbsolute  Improved by 9% since 2007
Revenue Adjusted  Improved by 26% since 2007
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 201200.511.5Metric T ons (in Millions )
0102030Metric T ons / $ MillionOur Results:  
CO2 Emissions Since 2007 , Boeing’s CO2 emissions have  
 decreased by 9 percent on an absolute basis, 26  
 percent revenue-adjusted. During this five-year period,  
 cumulative reductions total 420,000 metric tons, which  
 equals taking 87 ,000 cars off the road for one year.To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment 23During this five-year period, cumulative 
reductions in energy use equal enough energy to power 44,000 U.S. homes  
for a year.2%
ENOUGH ENERGY3%
44,000
U.S. HOMES
FOR A YEARCUT ENERGY USE BY
TO POWEROur Results:  
Energy Use Since 2007 , Boeing’s energy use decreased  
 by 3 percent on an absolute basis, 21 percent  
 revenue-adjusted.
Energy Use
Absolute  Improved by 3% since 2007
Revenue Adjusted  Improved by 21% since 2007
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 201202.557.51012.515MMBTU (in Millions )
050100150200250300MMBTU / $ Million
  Also includes data from Bellevue, Wash., South Park, Wash., Longacres Park, Wash., Spares Distribution Center, Wash., Duwamish Office 
Park, Wash., Chicago Corporate Headquarters, Boeing Commercial Airplanes operations in Long Beach, Calif., Seal Beach, Calif., PDX 
(Portland), Ore., and  North Charleston, S.C.
  Energy use is calculated from consumption of electricity, natural gas and fuel oil. Our facility in Philadelphia is the only major U.S. site that 
uses fuel oil for energy. Consumption of other fuels is not represented.To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment 24During this five-year period, those 
reductions equal the weight of 180 fully loaded semi-trailer trucks*.
 
*Based on the maximum loaded vehicle weight for U.S. 
highways (80,000 lbs).3%
THE WEIGHT OF18%
sixteen
747-400sCUT HAZARDOUS 
WASTE BY
EQUAL  TOOur Results:  
Hazardous Waste Since 2007 , Boeing’s hazardous waste  
 generation decreased by 18 percent on an  
 absolute basis, 33 percent revenue-adjusted.
Hazardous Waste
Absolute  Improved by 18% since 2007
Revenue Adjusted Improved by 33% since 2007
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 201202.557.510U.S. To ns (in Thousands )
00.050.10.150.2U.S. T ons / $ Million
  Also includes data from El Paso, Tex., Heath, Ohio, Macon, Ga., Palmdale, Calif., Salt Lake City, Utah, Sylmar, Calif., PDX (Portland), Ore.,  
and North Charleston, S.C.
 1 U.S. ton = 2,000 pounds.
 Hazardous waste data does not include waste derived from construction or remediation activities.To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment 25In 2012, Boeing’s absolute water intake 
increased by 8 percent compared with  the previous year. 
9%2%
800SAVING ENOUGH
WATER TO FILL
Olympi c-sized
SWIMMING POOLSCUT WATER  USE BYOur Results:  
Water Intake Since 2007 , Boeing’s water intake decreased  
 by 2 percent on an absolute basis, 20 percent  
 revenue-adjusted. During this five-year period, we  
 saved 538 million gallons of water, enough to fill 800  
 Olympic-sized swimming pools.
Water Intake
Absolute  Improved by 2% since 2007
Revenue Adjusted  Improved by 20% since 2007
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 201200.511.522.5U.S. Gallons (Billions )
01020304050Thousands of U.S. Gallons / $ Million
  Also includes data from Bellevue, Wash., South Park, Wash., Longacres Park, Wash., Spares Distribution Center, Wash., Duwamish Office 
Park, Wash., Chicago Corporate Headquarters, Boeing Commercial Airplanes operations in Long Beach, Calif., Seal Beach, Calif., PDX 
(Portland), Ore., and North Charleston, S.C. (Interiors Responsibility Center only).
 1 U.S. gallon = approximately 3.79 liters.To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment 26Waste is diverted from landfills through a 
combination of reducing, reusing, recycling, composting and energy recovery programs.
Boeing measures nonhazardous solid waste 
generated by our operations. This includes waste streams such as metals, wood, paper, cardboard, plastics and organic ma-
terials. It does not include hazardous waste, 
construction waste, remediation waste or waste from asbestos abatement activities. 18%
180OF WASTE FROM
ENOUGH TO FILL130,000
13
GARBAGE  TRUCKSDIVER TED
LANDFILLS
THOUSANDTONSOur Results:  
Solid Waste DivertedFrom LandfillsBy year-end 2012, 79 percent of the solid waste  
 we generated was diverted from landfills. Over the  
 past five years, we diverted 130,000 tons more trash  
 from landfills, enough to fill 13,000 garbage trucks.
Solid Waste Diverted From Landfills
Improved by 36% since 2007
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 201255%60%65%70%75%80%85%Diversion Rate
  Also includes data from Bellevue, Wash., South Park, Wash., Longacres Park, Wash., Spares Distribution Center, Wash., Duwamish Office 
Park, Wash., Boeing Commercial Airplanes operations in Long Beach, Calif., Seal Beach, Calif., and North Charleston, S.C. (Interiors 
Responsibility Center only).
  1 U.S. ton = 2,000 pounds.
  Performance is calculated by dividing the amount of nonhazardous solid waste diverted from landfill by the total amount of nonhazardous 
solid waste generated.To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment 27Toxic Release Inventory/National Pollutant Release Inventory      
  
 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
Release  (U.S. & Canada) (U.S. & Canada) (U.S. & Canada) (U.S. & Canada) (U.S. & Canada)
Total r elease  0.25 0.21 0.24 0.26 0.26
(millions of lb)  
Percentage change 0.0% -17.8% -4.4% 0.4% 2.3% 
Normalized to r evenue 3.8 3.4 3.6 4.0 3.8
(lb/million $ rev.) 
Percentage change fr om normalized 0% -10% -7% 4% -1%
Transfer
Total transfers 24.07 2.57 2.74 2.60 2.98
(millions of lb) 
Percentage change 0% -89% -89% -89% -88% 
Normalized to r evenue 363 42 40 41 43
(lb/million $ rev.) 
Percentage change fr om normalized 0 -88% -89% -89% -88%
Release and T ransfers
Total r elease and transfers 24.32 2.78 2.98 2.86 3.24
(millions of lb) 
Percentage change 0% -89% -88% -88% -87% 
Normalized to r evenue 366 46 44 44 47
(lb/million $ rev.) 
Percentage change fr om normalized 0 -88% -88% -88% -87%
Boeing has reduced toxic releases by 1 per-
cent since 2007, while overall transfers of chemicals to offsite facilities have decreased 
88 percent during the same period. Trans-
fers peaked in 2007, largely as a result of a transfer of old tooling and scrap metal to a recycler from our Wichita facility. Data for 2012 will be submitted to the U.S. and Canadian governments after the publi-cation of this report and will be included in 
Boeing’s 2014 Environment Report.
Boeing reduced toxic 
releases and the overall transfer of chemicals to offsite facilities.Our Results:  
Toxic Release Inventory/ National Pollutant  Release InventoryBoeing reports toxic releases to both the U.S.  
 Toxic Release Inventory (TRI) and to Canada’s  
 National Pollutant Release Inventory (NPRI), an  
inventory of pollutant releases and recycling, on an  
 annual basis.
  13 sites report TRI and NPRI releases and transfers: Auburn, Wash., El Paso, Texas, El Segundo, Calif., Everett, Wash., Frederickson, 
Wash., North Boeing Field, Wash., Plant 2, Wash., Portland, Ore., Renton, Wash., St. Louis, Mo., Sylmar, Calif., Wichita, Kan., and Winnipeg, 
Canada.
  2012 data will be submitted to the U.S. and Canadian governments after the publication of this report. Boeing will provide 2012 data in next 
year’s report.
  Total release and transfers percentage change for 2007, 2008 and 2009 were made to correct formula errors referring back to a 2002 baseline from previous year reporting and now refer to the 2007 baseline year.
  Total release and transfers percentage change from normalized in 2008 were made to correct formula errors referring back to a 2002 baseline from previous year reporting and now refer to the 2007 baseline year.To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment 28Australia 
Boeing Australia represents the company’s largest operational footprint outside the 
United States. Boeing is part of the aero-
space and defense fabric of Australia with nearly 3,000 employees at 27 sites and a heritage stretching back 85 years. 
In September 2012, Boeing Australia filed 
its fourth National Greenhouse and Energy Report, detailing greenhouse gas emissions, energy consumption and energy production data. This comprehensive report must be 
completed by registered corporations who 
meet specified energy use and green-house gas emission thresholds. For the 2011–2012 reporting period, the Australian 
Government’s Clean Energy Regulator 
released data for companies emitting more than 50,000 metric tons of equivalent carbon dioxide (CO
2-e). Boeing Australia’s 
CO2-e emissions were calculated at 60,804 
metric tons. 
Overall, Boeing Australia has achieved  
8 percent reduction in CO2-e emissions since the first reporting period in 2008–2009, while 
simultaneously increasing production rates of high-end aerostructure components.
Canada 
Boeing reports to Canada’s National Pollut-ant Release Inventory (NPRI), an inventory of pollutant releases, off-site disposal and treatment, on an annual basis. Since 2007, 
NPRI reporting increased significantly be-
cause of an increase in airplane production rates, resulting in the triggering of additional threshold reporting requirements. For more 
information, see the TRI/NPRI page in this 
Environment Report.
United Kingdom 
The Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme (CRC), under the U.K. 
Department of Energy and Climate Change, 
is a mandatory emissions trading scheme aimed at reducing CO
2 emissions in the 
United Kingdom. The CRC aims to raise awareness of energy use and incentivize 
energy efficient operations.For the reporting period, April 1, 2011, 
through March 31, 2012, CRC-regulated emissions were 4,549 metric tons (5,014 tons) of CO
2. Boeing operations in the U.K. 
consist of multiple units and subsidiaries. Boeing U.K. Training and Flight Services 
Ltd. operates flight simulators for training on 
Boeing aircraft at several locations through-out the U.K. Boeing Defence U.K. Ltd. has employees located at multiple locations 
throughout the U.K. supporting Ministry of 
Defence and U.S. military programs.
Additionally, CO
2 emissions from Boeing 
subsidiary Jeppesen U.K. Ltd. are included 
in the Boeing U.K. CRC report.Dancers perform a 
ceremonial lion dance to welcome delivery in 2013 of a 737-800 to China Eastern Airlines—the 1,000th Boeing jetliner deliv-ered to China. Boeing collaborates with Chinese partners on biofuels and air traffic management research and development proj-ects. (Boeing photo)
Our Results:  
International Boeing employees work on every continent,  
 with 18 international offices around the globe. Our  
 largest operations outside the United States are  
 based in Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom.To learn more, go to www.boeing.com/environment 29These included the following:
 ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year  
 from the U.S. Environmental Protection  
 Agency.
 Corporate Lands for Learning certifica- 
 tion from the Wildlife Habitat Council.
 Leading Environmentalism and For 
 warding Sustainability award from the  
 U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
 The 2012 Excellence in Corporate  
 Responsibility Award from the South 
 Carolina Manufacturers Association,  
 presented to the Charleston, S.C., site.
 The 2012 Outstanding Business/Industry  
 Recycling Award from the Carolina  
 Recycling Assoc., presented to the  
 Charleston, S.C. site.
 The 2013 Pennsylvania Environmental  
 Council Governor’s Award for Environ- 
 mental Excellence, presented to the  
 Philadelphia site. The Gold Award from the King County,  
 Wash., Department of Natural Resources  
 for perfect compliance with the industrial  
 wastewater discharge permit, presented  
 for the 15th consecutive year to the Rent 
 on site, the 16th consecutive year to the  
 North Boeing Field site, and for 2012 to  
 the Auburn site.
 The Five-Star Water Quality Award  
 from Pierce County, Wash., for  
 exemplary stormwater management,  
 presented for the second consecutive  
 year to the Frederickson site.
 Local water quality awards presented  
 by water treatment districts and other  
 environmental recognitions in multiple  
 locations, including Mesa, Ariz., El Paso,  
 Texas, El Segundo, Calif., Kent, Wash.,  
 Long Beach, Calif., Portland, Ore.,  
 Seattle, Wash., St. Louis, Mo., Wichita,  
 Kan., Frederickson, Wash., Auburn,  
 Wash., Nye County, Nev., and  
 Charleston, S.C.Boeing’s C-17 Globe-
master III final assem-bly facility in Long Beach, Calif., achieved the EPA’s Energy Star Challenge for Industry award—one of the first heavy manufacturing sites to earn the rec-ognition—for reducing energy use.  (Boeing photo)
Our Results:  
Recognition Boeing received environment awards and  
 recognition from a number of local, national and  
 international organizations in 2011.Visit us at boeing.com/
environment to  view our current  Environment Report and information on how the people of Boeing are developing ways to protect the planet and create a better tomorrow.
Boeing is a responsible partner, neighbor and  
citizen  to the diverse communities and customers we  
serve. We are building a better future with innovative  
products that are cleaner, more efficient and set a new  
standard for performance. Boeing follows responsible  
business practices and promotes positive changes in the  
lives of people around the world while growing shareholder 
and customer value in a competitive global marketplace.
Visit us at boeing.com/  
investorrelations to  
view our annual reports and to find additional information about our financial performance and Boeing business practices. Visit us at boeing.com to learn more about Boeing and how extra- ordinary innovations  in our products and services are helping  solve the world’s toughest problems.
Visit us at boeing.com/community to view our Corporate Citizenship  Report and other information about how Boeing is working to improve communities worldwide.The Boeing Company
100 North RiversideChicago, Illinois 60606www.boeing.com/environment
Copyright © 2013 Boeing. All rights reserved.  
237059