Creating 
a better futurePioneering
new technologies
Measuring
our progressReducing
our environmental footprint2008 Environment ReportCEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment2008 Environment Report
Page 2» Jim McNerney
 Chairman, President and  
Chief Executive Officer
Mary Armstrong
Vice President of Environment, Health and Safety
Environmental Affiliations
Boeing participates in focused, progressive and action-oriented programs to improve environmental performance. Message from Jim McNerney
Climate change and pollution are serious global 
concerns. Recognizing that, Boeing has set a 
clear strategy to take action on protecting our 
eco-system. 
Our task is to find a way to reduce the environmental impact of our operations and 
of our products and services. It’s a momentous challenge. Aerospace is an essential 
part of modern life; it helps drive economic growth and prosperity, and it brings the 
people of the world closer together. 
Because of the tremendous benefits aerospace brings to the world, our industry—
and our company with it—is growing. So we have charted a pathway with clearly 
defined actions for Boeing to address our impact on the environment:
•	As	a	technology	leader,	we	will	continue	to	pioneer	environmentally	progressive	
products and services and bring them to market.
•	As	a	leader	in	aerospace,	we	are	bringing	the	industry	together	to	become	more	
aligned on environmental-improvement opportunities.
•	And	as	a	responsible	corporate	citizen	and	neighbor,	we	are	focused	on	reducing	
energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, pollution and waste at our facilities even 
as our business grows.
CEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment2008 Environment Report
Page 3» Jim McNerney
 Chairman, President and  
Chief Executive Officer
Mary Armstrong
Vice President of Environment, Health and SafetyBoeing has a strong legacy of improving fuel efficiency and reducing noise in its 
products. We also have an excellent record of reducing pollution and ensuring 
compliance with environmental regulations.
But it is clear we need to accelerate our efforts. Aviation contributes 2 percent  
of global man-made carbon dioxide—the main greenhouse gas linked to climate-change concerns—according to the United Nations’ Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). The IPCC predicts it will grow to 3 percent  
by 2050. 
Boeing has a leadership role to play in helping our industry and communities 
shape frameworks for addressing climate change that are most effective on a 
global basis. 
In April, Boeing helped bring together customers, partners and competitors in 
the	commercial	aviation	industry.	In	Geneva,	Switzerland,	we	jointly	committed	
to a pathway toward carbon-neutral growth and the aspiration of a carbon- free future. 
We all acknowledged that the environmental challenge can best be tackled  
only if we act in unison and ideally at a global level. Focus areas will include cooperation on alternative energy sources, the supply chain and the global transportation system—all elements that offer critical near- and medium-term 
potential for environmental gains.
Boeing is making great strides in real-world gains in fuel efficiency and trans-
portation system improvements. We also have demonstrated that sustainably 
grown, non-food second-generation biofuels that do not compete with crops 
may offer a feasible solution for reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
This past year we’ve also taken significant steps to strengthen our work  
internally	so	that	we	more	than	offset	the	projected	increases	in	our	production	
rates with environmental improvements. 
We consolidated environmentally focused initiatives inside Boeing into one 
corporate	organization—Environment,	Health	and	Safety.	This	organization	 
is leading our enterprisewide strategy to link our products, processes and 
facilities; and to reach out to our suppliers, customers and communities. (continued from page 2)CEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment2008 Environment Report
Page 4» Jim McNerney
 Chairman, President and  
Chief Executive Officer
Mary Armstrong
Vice President of Environment, Health and Safety
We also created the Environment, Health and Safety policy council, which I  
lead. This council ensures that strategy and performance targets are set and 
monitored at the highest levels of company leadership. 
And we aligned internal practices, this provided a foundation to drive environ-
mental thought and action across Boeing: 
•	First,	we	acted	to	extend	the	International	Organization	for	Standardization	
14001	environmental	management	standard	to	all	major	Boeing	manufactur -
ing sites by the end of 2008.
•	Second,	we	developed	five-year	improvement	targets	at	our	facilities.	These	
targets set the bar for 25 percent improvements in energy efficiency, green-
house gas emissions intensity and solid-waste recycling rates. We set a similar	goal	for	hazardous	waste	reduction.	These	are	challenging	goals	that	
have been worked into the business-planning and performance-evaluation 
processes that are at the heart of how we at Boeing do business. The targets require tangible action and coordinated enterprise support. 
Further	demonstrating	our	commitment,	this	year	Boeing	joined	the	U.S.	Environmental Protection Agency’s Climate Leaders program, which commits  us to action on carbon dioxide reductions. We are also members of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and the Pew Center on Global 
Climate Change in order to learn from our peers and communities, sponsor  
best practices and drive environmental improvements globally.
As you will see in the report, Boeing also supports effective and targeted 
environmental nonprofit activity—and we intend to increase this financial 
support in 2008.
It is my hope that you find this report an informative and comprehensive demon-
stration of how we at Boeing are taking real action to create a better future.
Jim McNerney 
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer(continued from page 3)CEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment2008 Environment Report
Page 5» Jim McNerney
 Chairman, President and  
Chief Executive Officer
Mary Armstrong
Vice President of Environment, Health and SafetyEnvironmental Affiliations
Boeing participates in focused, progressive and action-oriented programs with 
business, government and the community to improve environmental performance:
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Climate Leaders 
Boeing	joined	the	industry-government	partnership	in	2008,	committing	to	reduce the company’s environmental impact by completing a companywide greenhouse gas emissions inventory, establishing reduction targets and  
reporting progress to the EPA on an annual basis.
World Business Council for Sustainable Development 
Boeing	joined	this	200-company	coalition	focused	on	sustainable	development	
through business leadership. Member companies can explore sustainable 
development, share knowledge, experiences and best practices, and advocate business positions on these issues.
Carbon Disclosure Project 
Boeing	has	participated	in	the	Carbon	Disclosure	Project,	an	independent	nonprofit	organization	that	has	become	the	standard	for	carbon	disclosure	methodology and process, since 2006. 
The Nature Conservancy International Leadership Council 
Boeing serves as a member of the International Leadership Council, one of the world’s leading corporate forums on conservation. Boeing has also been repre-
sented on the board of the Washington program of The Nature Conservancy.
Pew Center on Global Climate Change Business Environmental  
Leadership Council 
Boeing	participates	in	this	group	of	major	companies	that	exhibit	environmental	
leadership through investment in environmentally progressive products and the support of domestic and global measures to achieve cost-effective reductions  in emissions.
Department of Energy/EPA Energy Star 
Boeing	participates	in	the	joint	U.S.	Department	of	Energy	and	EPA	Energy	Star	program for energy management.
U.S. Green Building Council 
Boeing	is	a	member	of	the	U.S.	Green	Building	Council,	a	nonprofit	organization	dedicated to sustainable building practices that develops and administers the 
Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design building standards.(continued from page 4)CEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment2008 Environment Report
Page 6Jim McNerney
Chairman, President and Chief 
Executive Officer
» Mary Armstrong
 Vice President of Environment, 
Health and SafetyMessage from Mary Armstrong
In May 2007, Boeing expanded the role of its environmental team by creating the 
corporate	Environment,	Health	and	Safety	organization.	Our	mandate	is	clear— 
to provide strategic direction and oversight, and to further embed environmental 
performance into Boeing’s thinking, culture and action. 
As a foundation, in 2008 we included, for the first time, challenging five-year  
environmental performance targets in the standard business plans of our operating 
units. At Boeing we know that to truly improve, you must first measure accurately, 
then set targets and finally, hold yourself accountable to beat them. 
Boeing is an innovation leader, and our most critical contribution to protecting  
our eco-systems is—and will continue to be—bringing new technologies to market  
that improve the environmental performance of our air, land, space and network products as well as our support services and operations. 
We also have a responsibility to be good stewards of our environment and good 
neighbors. We are committed to continuously reducing the environmental impact  of our operations and to ensuring timely cleanup of sites that have been affected  by prior practices that have created pollution.
This 2008 Environment Report details the environmental impact of our operations, 
the targets for improvement to which we have committed, and the strategy and actions	that	we	will	use	to	achieve	them.	The	report	seeks	to	address	major	 
environmental items in both quantitative and qualitative form and is, to the best  
of our ability, an accurate description of our performance. We have strived to  clearly explain our methodology and reasoning.
CEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment2008 Environment Report
Page 7Jim McNerney
Chairman, President and Chief 
Executive Officer
» Mary Armstrong
 Vice President of Environment, 
Health and SafetyThe data tables refer to Boeing’s own environmental impact. In future reports, 
we will expand our documentation of the performance of our value chain. We 
are engaging our suppliers both directly and through industrywide action to 
develop plans for improvement.
The data show we continue to make good strides in improving recycling rates, 
energy	efficiency,	greenhouse	gas	emissions	intensity	and	hazardous	waste	at	
our facilities. Boeing relies on a proven productivity philosophy called Lean+ 
that has proved to be a natural ally of the environment. Much of our recent energy and waste improvements can be attributed to that work. Boeing also  
has divested some facilities and operations, and although much of that has 
been taken into account in our reporting, it is not always possible to capture  the entire value chain’s impact.
Boeing	is	disclosing	its	facilities’	carbon	footprint	and	hazardous	waste	figures	
publicly for the first time. Our challenging target over the next five years is to 
reduce waste and greenhouse gas emissions on an absolute basis, even as our business is growing. We have clear plans to meet that goal.
Boeing continues to perform well on regulatory compliance and preventing 
unwanted release of harmful pollutants leaving our facilities. However, we paid two fines in 2007—one of approximately $471,000 for exceedances of water quality limits at the Santa Susana facility in California, the other, a $300 penalty 
at the Plant 2 facility in Seattle, Wash. In both cases, we are taking action to 
prevent repeat issues. We strive always to meet our commitments to regulatory compliance.
We	have	also	been	recognized	this	year	for	multiple	achievements—and	while	
you can read more about our awards for environment performance in other sections of this report, I would like to highlight recognition in Renton and Seattle, Wash., where two of our facilities achieved 10 years of concurrent 
operations with the highest standards of water quality leaving our facilities.
We will continue to periodically provide updates on our environmental activities 
and successes, as well as share where we fell short of our expectations and our 
plans to improve.(continued from page 6)CEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment2008 Environment Report
Page 8
Jim McNerney
Chairman, President and Chief 
Executive Officer
» Mary Armstrong
 Vice President of Environment, 
Health and SafetyI hope that you find this report informative and that it accurately conveys the 
sense of commitment that everyone at Boeing has to this global challenge.
Boeing is creating the technology for a better future, while committing to 
responsible stewardship of its operations today. 
Thank you. 
Mary Armstrong 
Vice President of Environment, Health and Safety(continued from page 7)CEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment2008 Environment Report
Page 9Jim McNerney
Chairman, President and Chief 
Executive Officer
» Mary Armstrong
 Vice President of Environment, 
Health and SafetyEnvironmental Actions and Commitments
Since May 2007, Boeing: 
•	Stood	up	an	expanded	Environment,	Health	and	Safety	organization	with	a	
mandate for strategic direction and guidance on the environment and with 
leadership direction from the most senior level in the company. 
•	Committed	to	reduce	greenhouse	gas	emissions	at	our	facilities	and	joined	
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Climate Leaders program.
•	Set	clear	targets	for	environmental	improvement	at	our	facilities	and	for	our	
commercial airplane products, while also committing to improving how we 
report our environmental progress and impact. 
•	Brought	our	industry	together	to	focus	on	working	together	on	real	improve-
ment opportunities.
•	Demonstrated	real-world	solutions	for	reducing	greenhouse	gas	emissions	 
in commercial aviation using alternate energy sources for airplanes and 
improved transportation management systems.
•	Committed	to	expand	certification	to	the	ISO	14001	environmental	manage-
ment	system	standard	to	all	our	major	manufacturing	sites	by	the	end	of	2008.
Aggressive Operations Targets
Boeing recently unveiled five-year targets for reductions in energy use, green-house	gas	emissions	intensity	and	hazardous	waste,	as	well	as	a	commitment	
to ISO 14001 certification:
•	25	percent	increase	in	energy	efficiency•	25	percent	reduction	in	greenhouse	gas	emissions	intensity
•	25	percent	reduction	of	hazardous	waste	per	dollar	of	revenue
•	25	percent	increase	in	solid	waste	recycling	rates
•	100	percent	of	major	Boeing	manufacturing	facilities	will	achieve	certification	
to the ISO 14001 environmental management system standard by the end  
of 2008 
 (continued from page 8)CEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 102008 Environment Report
Environmentally Progressive  
 Products and Services
Air Transportation Systems
Alternative Energy SolutionsResearch and Development
787 Dreamliner  20 percent 
more fuel and CO 2 efficient
747-8  16 percent more fuel 
and CO 2 efficient
Air traffic management 
enhancements could improve 
fuel efficiency and reduce CO 2 
emissions by up to 12 percent.
Advanced-Generation 
Biofuels  conducted the first 
commercial aviation flight using 
a sustainable biofuel.
Solar Cells  developed record-
breaking efficiency in convert-ing sunlight to electricity.
Fuel Cells  celebrated the first 
flight of a manned airplane powered by hydrogen  
fuel cells.Pioneering Environmental Technologies
Boeing is developing industry-leading tech-
nologies in three key fields—environmentally 
progressive products and services, the air 
transport systems in which they operate, and alternative energy sources—to reduce emissions  
of greenhouse gases and other environmentally negative impacts. We are also devoting research  
and development to improve the environmental 
performance of our products and services— 
and to design, develop and build them in an environmentally responsible manner.
CEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 112008 Environment Report
» Environmentally Progressive  
 Products and Services
Air Transportation Systems
Alternative Energy SolutionsResearch and Development
Boeing is driving environmentally 
progressive technologies into its products and services. Pictured here is a Next-Generation 737-900ER with Blended Winglets, wing tip extensions that lower fuel use, emissions and noise.Environmentally Progressive Products and Services
At Boeing, we have an ongoing legacy of integrating environmental performance 
improvements through technology advancements. Over the last 40 years, 
airplane CO 2 emissions have been reduced by around 70 percent and the  
noise footprint area has been reduced by approximately 90 percent. That  legacy continues today with every airplane we design and build. 
Boeing’s newest airplanes, the 787 Dreamliner and the 747-8, exemplify the 
company’s dedication to environmental design innovation. Incorporating four innovative technologies—new engines, increased use of lightweight composite 
materials, high-efficiency systems applications, and modern aerodynamics—the 
787 is designed for the environment with an impressive 20 percent improvement in fuel use and an equivalent reduction in carbon dioxide emissions compared 
to	today’s	similarly-sized	airplanes.	The	747-8	offers	a	16	percent	improvement	
in fuel use and carbon dioxide emissions over the 747-400.
We are also integrating environmentally progressive technologies in our current 
airplane programs. The Boeing 737, the most ordered and produced commer -
cial	passenger	jet	in	the	world,	uses	advanced	technology	Blended	Winglets	that lower fuel burn by as much as 4 percent, reduce noise on takeoff and approach, and reduce emissions through lower cruise thrust. In addition to 
being offered on new airplanes, winglets are also available on a retrofit basis  
by	our	joint	venture	partnership	company	Aviation	Partners	Boeing,	providing	environmental performance benefits to the existing fleet.
We have made continuous improvements to the Boeing 777 to lower fuel 
consumption, reduce emissions and reduce noise. The longer range 777 
airplanes (777-300ER, 777-200LR and 777 Freighter) incorporate wing and system modifications, as well as a new raked wingtip, that reduce airplane  
drag and improve overall aerodynamic efficiency. 
Our Commercial Aviation Services division is driving further improvements 
through our integrated support and service offerings. We apply a lifecycle solutions approach to achieve operational and environmental performance 
improvements, resulting in increased fuel efficiency and reduced noise and 
CEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 122008 Environment Report
» Environmentally Progressive  
 Products and Services
Air Transportation Systems
Alternative Energy SolutionsResearch and Developmentemissions. For example, the Airplane Health Management (AHM) Performance 
Monitoring Module automates and enhances the process of fuel and carbon 
dioxide emissions performance monitoring by airline personnel. It applies 
advanced health management technology to identify conditions that may affect fuel performance and provides research tools and decision support information within the context of the overall airplane condition.
While the improvements we have made are significant, we believe we can do 
more. That’s why we have committed to improving the fuel efficiency of each new generation of commercial airplanes by at least 15 percent.
The Boeing 747-8 Intercontinental and 747-8 Freighter:  
Designed for Environmental Performance
On the new 747-8 family Boeing is leveraging the technologies from the  
787 Dreamliner to further its commitment to creating environmentally preferred 
commercial	jetliners.	
Lower Fuel Use 
Three key features—new engines, more efficient structure and advanced aerodynamics—contribute to a 16 percent improvement (on a per-seat basis)  
in fuel use for the 747-8 compared to the 747-400. 
The new GEnx-2B67 engines incorporate the latest technologies—such as a 
composite fan case and blades and a revolutionary turbine—to create double-
digit efficiency gains over the engines it replaces. The ultra-efficient structure  
of the 747-8 provides the lowest operating empty weight per seat of any large airplane. Lastly, the new-design wing incorporates the latest aerodynamic airfoils, raked tips and a simplified lightweight flap design, further improving  
the overall fuel efficiency of the 747-8. 
Reduced Emissions
Carbon dioxide (CO
2) is produced as a result of fuel consumption. This means 
that with reduced fuel use comes an equivalent reduction in carbon dioxide 
emissions.	Another	key	emission	standard	for	commercial	jetliners	is	nitrogen	
oxides (NO X). Specific regulations have already been set for future airplanes 
based on the thrust ratings of an airplane’s engines. (continued from page 11)CEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 132008 Environment Report
» Environmentally Progressive  
 Products and Services
Air Transportation Systems
Alternative Energy SolutionsResearch and DevelopmentThe 747-8 is being designed to ensure that it will perform significantly  
better than required by today’s standard, and it will be better than the future,  
more-stringent regulations being incorporated by the Committee on Aviation  
Environmental Protection (CAEP). 
Quieter Takeoffs and Landings
By designing with noise reduction in mind, Boeing was able to reduce the 747-8 
noise footprint around an airport by 30 percent compared to today’s 747-400.
Boeing 787 Dreamliner Being Designed for Environmental  
Performance
With the 787 Dreamliner, Boeing is introducing new technologies to create better 
environmental	performance	for	commercial	jetliners.
Fuel Use Reduced 
Four key technologies contribute to an impressive 20 percent improvement in fuel	use	for	the	787	Dreamliner	as	compared	to	today’s	similarly	sized	airplane.	New engines, increased use of light weight composite materials, more-efficient 
systems applications and modern aerodynamics each contribute to the 787’s 
overall performance.
Emissions Cut
Carbon dioxide (CO
2) is produced as a result of fuel consumption. This  
means that with reduced fuel use comes an equivalent reduction in carbon dioxide emissions. 
Another	key	emission	standard	for	commercial	jetliners	is	nitrogen	oxides	(NO
X). 
Specific regulations have already been set for future airplanes, using a complex 
formula that is based on the thrust ratings of an airplane’s engines. The 787 is 
being designed to ensure it will be significantly better than the more-stringent regulations that have been incorporated this year by the Committee on Aviation Environmental Protection (CAEP).
Quieter Takeoffs and Landings Delivered
The 787 Dreamliner uses a number of new technologies—most importantly, acoustically treated engine inlets and high bypass ratio along with other special 
treatments for the engines—to ensure that all sound of 85 decibels (about the 
level of loud traffic heard from the side of the road) never leaves the airport (continued from page 12)CEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 142008 Environment Report
» Environmentally Progressive  
 Products and Services
Air Transportation Systems
Alternative Energy SolutionsResearch and Developmentboundaries. In fact, the noise footprint of the 787 is 60 percent smaller than 
those	of	today’s	similarly	sized	airplanes.
Point-to-Point Travel Enabled
Connecting people more directly to their destinations offers a number of environmental benefits. A more direct route uses less fuel, which means  fewer emissions. Likewise, fewer takeoffs and landings reduce the total  
noise footprint. 
The 787 is designed to transport passengers and cargo from their city of origin 
to their final destinations in the most environmentally efficient manner.
Manufacturing Technologies Mean Less Waste
Because the 787 is made primarily of carbon-fiber composite material, which  is trimmed like cloth, manufacturing processes will produce less scrap material 
and waste. 
The result will be an overall manufacturing and maintenance process that 
produces less waste and uses fewer harmful chemicals and agents.(continued from page 13)CEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 152008 Environment Report
Environmentally Progressive  
 Products and Services
» Air Transportation Systems
Alternative Energy Solutions
Research and DevelopmentAir Transportation Systems
Our efforts to have a positive impact on the environment go beyond our products.  
Improving the efficiency of the global transportation system can also provide 
significant environmental benefits. In fact, the International Air Transport  
Association (IATA) estimates that air traffic management enhancements could improve fuel efficiency and CO
2 emissions by up to 12 percent. 
Boeing	recognizes	that	air	traffic	management	improvements	provide	the	
greatest short-term opportunities to improve environmental performance of  
the transportation system. That’s why we are working with industry, regulators, airlines and airports to improve management of the air space and ensure efficient, safe and seamless operation around the world.
Our work includes the development of air traffic management solutions that 
reduce	fuel	use	by	minimizing	delays	and	holding	patterns	over	airports	and	capitalizing	on	precision	navigation	technologies	in	modern	aircraft	often	left	
unexploited in the legacy system. One example: our Tailored Arrival concept 
increases airplane arrival efficiency by establishing a predictable continuous descent rather than the current step-down descent, resulting in reduced  fuel use, emissions and noise. Trials have demonstrated that implementing 
these types of advanced arrival techniques can save up to 500 gallons of  
fuel per flight.Improving global air transportation 
systems is a critical near-term oppor -
tunity for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Boeing’s Air Traffic Management (ATM) systems laboratories are demonstrating the technologies and capabilities that will help drive improvements. 
CEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 162008 Environment Report
Environmentally Progressive  
 Products and Services
Air Transportation Systems
» Alternative Energy Solutions
Research and DevelopmentAlternative Energy Solutions
Alternative energy sources offer the potential to reduce greenhouse gas  
emissions. We are pioneering advancements in environmentally progressive 
energy sources in three key fields.
Advanced-Generation Biofuels
To	highlight	the	technical	feasibility	of	using	biofuels	in	a	commercial	jetliner,	we	conducted the first commercial aviation flight using a sustainable biofuel mixed 
with traditional kerosene-based fuel in February 2008 with Virgin Atlantic and GE 
Aviation. In addition to conducting engine ground testing with Pratt & Whitney, we	will	conduct	joint	biofuel	demonstration	flights	in	2008	with	Air	New	Zealand	
and Rolls-Royce and in 2009 with Continental Airlines and GE Aviation, with an 
initial emphasis on sustainable biofuels that could be applied to the existing airplane fleet to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. 
Since first-generation biofuels may compete with food stocks, Boeing has 
always been focused on sustainably grown, advanced-generation biofuels. The 
following chart on this page highlights the relative energy density of various types of biofuels. 
Solar Cells
Our wholly-owned subsidiary Spectrolab is one of the world’s leading manufac-
turers of solar cells, powering everything from satellites and interplanetary 
missions	to	renewable	solar	energy	companies	in	California,	Arizona,	and	Australia. 	 
Spectrolab’s Earth-based concentrator cells currently hold the world’s record with 40.7 percent efficiency in converting sunlight to electricity—and the company is 
pioneering new technologies anticipated to yield further improvements.Future fuels must be sustainable  
and not compete with food crops. Boeing seeks to leverage research like that of the Hawaii Agriculture Research Center on Jatropha curcas, a sustainably grown, advanced generation, non-food crop that offers the potential to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
Litres of Oil Yields (hectare/year)100,000
75,000
50,00025,000
BiofuelsAdvanced Generation 1st Generation
Soybeans444
Rapeseed888
Babassu3,552
Palm Oil3,552
Jatropha2,664
Algae88,800CEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 172008 Environment Report
Environmentally Progressive  
 Products and Services
Air Transportation Systems
» Alternative Energy Solutions
Research and DevelopmentFuel Cells
Fuel cells directly convert hydrogen into heat and electricity without combustion,  
reducing the need for conventional fuels, eliminating emissions (except for heat and water), and lowering noise. Fuel-cell technology holds promise in providing cleaner, quieter operation of secondary airplane power systems. Led by  Madrid-based Boeing Research & Technology Europe, we recently conducted 
experimental flight tests of a Boeing Proton Exchange Membrane (PEM) fuel 
cell/lithium-ion battery system in February and March 2008 in Ocaña, Spain, celebrating the first flight of a manned airplane powered by hydrogen fuel  cells in aviation history. We continue to study additional fuel cell technologies, 
including a Solid Oxide fuel cell.
Boeing, Virgin Atlantic and GE Aviation Flew First Commercial  
Jet on Biofuel
Boeing, Virgin Atlantic and GE Aviation conducted the first commercial aviation 
flight	using	a	sustainable	biofuel	mixed	with	traditional	kerosene-based	jet	fuel	
on February 24, 2008. The biofuel flight demonstration highlighted the technical 
feasibility	of	using	biofuels	in	a	commercial	jetliner	and	was	a	significant	step	toward a long-term vision of fully sustainable, low-carbon-lifecycle fuel solutions for the aviation industry.
The Virgin Atlantic 747-400 flew using a biofuel blend composed of babassu  
oil and coconut oil provided by Seattle-based Imperium Renewables. These  oils are economically and socially sustainable and can be found in everyday 
cosmetic products including lip balm and shaving cream. In addition, the 
babassu nuts and coconuts were harvested from existing, mature plantations. No modifications were made to either the aircraft or its engines to enable the flight to take place.(continued from page 16)CEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 182008 Environment Report
Environmentally Progressive  
 Products and Services
Air Transportation Systems
» Alternative Energy Solutions
Research and Development“Today marks a biofuel breakthrough for the whole airline industry,” said Sir 
Richard Branson, president of Virgin Atlantic. “Virgin Atlantic and its partners 
have	proved	that	you	can	find	an	alternative	to	traditional	jet	fuel	and	fly	a	plane	
on biofuel. This pioneering flight will enable those of us who are serious about reducing our carbon emissions to go on developing the fuels of the future,  fuels which will power our aircraft in the years ahead.”
The	results	of	the	biofuel	flight	will	be	analyzed	by	the	collective	team	and	 
used for research and development of next-generation biofuels that can help  to further reduce carbon emissions. Boeing will use findings from this flight  
as a baseline for conducting another biofuel flight later this year with Air  
New	Zealand.(continued from page 17)CEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 192008 Environment Report
Environmentally Progressive  
 Products and Services
Air Transportation Systems
» Alternative Energy Solutions
Research and DevelopmentBoeing Successfully Flies Fuel Cell-Powered Airplane
Boeing announced on April 3, 2008, that it has, for the first time in aviation 
history, flown a manned airplane powered by hydrogen fuel cells.
The recent milestone is the work of an engineering team at Boeing Research & 
Technology Europe (BR&TE) in Madrid, with assistance from industry partners  in Austria, France, Germany, Spain, the United Kingdom and the United States.
A fuel cell is an electrochemical device that converts hydrogen directly into 
electricity and heat with none of the products of combustion such as carbon dioxide. Other than heat, water is its only exhaust.
A two-seat Dimona motor-glider with a 16.3 meter (53.5 foot) wingspan was 
used as the airframe. Built by Diamond Aircraft Industries of Austria, it was modified by BR&TE to include a Proton Exchange Membrane (PEM) fuel cell/lithium-ion battery hybrid system to power an electric motor coupled to a 
conventional propeller.
Three test flights took place in February and March at the airfield in Ocaña, 
south of Madrid, operated by the Spanish company SENASA.
According to Boeing researchers, PEM fuel cell technology potentially could 
power small manned and unmanned air vehicles. Over the longer term, solid oxide fuel cells could be applied to secondary power-generating systems,  
such as auxiliary power units for large commercial airplanes. Boeing does not 
envision that fuel cells will ever provide primary power for large passenger airplanes, but the company will continue to investigate their potential, as well  as other sustainable alternative fuel and energy sources that improve environ-
mental performance.(continued from page 18)CEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 202008 Environment Report
Environmentally Progressive  
 Products and Services
Air Transportation Systems
» Alternative Energy Solutions
Research and Development(continued from page 19)
Spectrolab to Provide Renewable Energy to Australia
The Boeing Company announced on April 14, 2008, a third multimillion-dollar 
contract award with Solar Systems Pty. Ltd. for concentrator photovoltaic cell 
assemblies used to produce renewable energy. The cells will be used in the new 
154-megawatt solar power station to be built in the state of Victoria, Australia,  in addition to other power stations located throughout Australia and the United States. Contract details were not disclosed. 
Under the terms of the new contract, Spectrolab Inc. of Sylmar, Calif., a wholly 
owned Boeing subsidiary, will provide solar cell assemblies capable of generat-ing more than 350 megawatts of electricity. When combined with previous 
contracts awarded in April and August 2006, the Hawthorn, Victoria-based  
Solar Systems has ordered approximately 360 megawatts of renewable power from Spectrolab. 
“Solar energy is in high demand, and our record-breaking conversion efficiency 
of over 40 percent is an industry best,” said David Lillington, president of 
Spectrolab. “Our partnership with Solar Systems has resulted in the demonstra-tion of affordable and reliable concentrating solar power systems. Renewable 
energy is a worldwide priority, and Spectrolab is well positioned to expand its 
global role in this rapidly expanding industry.” 
Spectrolab is one of the world’s leading suppliers of photovoltaic solar cells, 
solar panels, searchlight and solar simulators and is currently celebrating  
50 years of supplying solar array panels to the space industry. CEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 212008 Environment Report
Environmentally Progressive  
 Products and Services
Air Transportation Systems
Alternative Energy Solutions» Research and DevelopmentResearch and Development
A Boeing lab technician conducts 
automated	freeze-point	testing	on	 jet	fuel	samples	at	the	Boeing	Commercial Airplanes Fuels and Lubricants Test Laboratory in Seattle, Wash. Boeing is exploring second-generation biofuel testing to identify renewable alternative fuel sources for aviation uses.
Much of our airplane development work—be it weight reduction or advanced 
aerodynamics—is focused on fuel efficiency. In fact, more than 75 percent of 
Boeing Commercial Airplanes’ research and development (R&D) effectively 
contributes to improving the environmental performance of our products. Fuel efficiency continues to be a core focus of our R&D efforts—lowering fuel use lowers CO
2 emissions. We are also striving to make our airplanes quieter in the 
community as well as inside the cabin. And we continue to explore far-reaching 
projects	such	as	low-carbon	alternative	fuels	for	aviation	use.
We have also developed alternative materials and processes for manufacturing 
and maintenance. CEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 222008 Environment Report
Our Environmental and  
 Climate Change Policies
Environment, Health and  	 Safety	Organization
Commitment to RemediationPerformance TargetsEnvironmental Management
Aggressive Performance Targets
15% 
improvement in fuel efficiency 
and CO 2 emissions for each  
new generation of commercial 
airplane
25% 
improvement at our major 
manufacturing facilities over  
five years in: energy efficiency, greenhouse gas emissions intensity, hazardous waste  
per dollar of revenue, and 
recycling rates
100% 
of major Boeing manufacturing 
facilities will achieve certification 
to the ISO 14001 environmental 
management system standard  
by the end of 2008.Environmental Stewardship
Being good environmental stewards means 
more than developing plans and stating objec-
tives. It means working every day to find ways 
to lessen the environmental impact of our prod-ucts, services and operations. We are driving 
environmental thought and action throughout 
our company by establishing aggressive opera-tions and product performance targets, forming 
a corporate organization to lead our enterprise-
wide environmental strategy, adopting an  environmental policy, strengthening our environ-
mental management system and remediating 
locations affected by past business operations.
CEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 232008 Environment Report
Our Environmental and Climate Change Policies
Boeing is committed to operating in a manner that promotes environmental 
stewardship. We will strive to:
•	Conduct	operations	in	compliance	with	applicable	environmental	 
laws, regulations, and Boeing policies and procedures. 
•	Prevent	pollution	by	conserving	energy	and	resources,	recycling,	 
reducing waste and pursuing other source reduction strategies. 
•	Continually	improve	our	environmental	management	system.	
•	Work	together	with	our	stakeholders	on	activities	that	promote	 
environmental protection.
Boeing’s Climate Change Approach
Boeing believes that climate change is a serious environmental challenge	that	requires	credible	action.	Recognizing	this,	Boeing	is	committed to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases from our 
facilities and products.
As the global community develops approaches to reducing green-
house gas emissions, Boeing acknowledges that voluntary measures 
alone may not be enough and supports development of mandatory 
yet flexible frameworks to address emission reductions. 
Boeing	recognizes	that	appropriate	action	may	vary	from	one	sector	
to another. A comprehensive approach would take into account the 
most effective way to deal with each industry sector. 
As a technology and aerospace industry leader Boeing will work  
with our customers and other industry stakeholders to:
•	Pioneer	new	technology	to	improve	the	global	transportation	
system
•	Increase	research	to	improve	efficiencies	throughout	the	system:	
air and ground operations, in-service fleet environmental perfor -
mance and introduction of sustainable second-generation fuelsBoeing is driving improved environ-
mental performance into our operations, as well as our products and	services.	All	major	manufactur -
ing facilities will be certified to the ISO 14001 environmental manage-ment system standard by the end  of 2008. 
Our Environmental and  
 Climate Change Policies
Environment, Health and  	 Safety	Organization
Commitment to RemediationPerformance TargetsEnvironmental ManagementCEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 242008 Environment Report
•	Accelerate	adoption	of	environmentally	progressive	products	 
and services
•	Reduce	carbon	intensity	of	air	transportation	by	reducing	 
CO 2 emissions 15 percent with each new generation of  
commercial aircraft 
Boeing’s greatest contribution will continue to be through innova-
tion—and Boeing will remain committed to improving technologies for sustainable, renewable energy systems.
In addition, Boeing has set aggressive and transparent enterprisewide perfor -
mance targets to drive environmental thought and action throughout its opera-
tions.	By	2012	at	its	major	manufacturing	facilities,	Boeing	targets	25	percent	
improvement goals for solid waste recycling rates, energy efficiency and greenhouse	gas	emissions	intensity	and	a	comparable	goal	for	hazardous	 waste reduction. Boeing has also committed to extend certification to the 
internationally	recognized	ISO	14001	environmental	management	system	
standard	to	100	percent	of	its	major	manufacturing	sites	by	the	end	of	2008.	(continued from page 23)
Our Environmental and  
 Climate Change Policies
Environment, Health and  	 Safety	Organization
Commitment to RemediationPerformance TargetsEnvironmental ManagementCEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 252008 Environment Report
Environment, Health and Safety Organization
In 2007, we consolidated environmentally focused initiatives inside Boeing  
into	one	corporate	organization—Environment,	Health	and	Safety—which	is	
developing an integrated, enterprisewide strategy that includes our products, 
processes and facilities, as well as our suppliers and customers. 
We have a long history of continuously improving the environmental perfor -
mance of our products and services, and we have a record of compliance with 
the environmental rules and regulations that affect our operations. With this new 
organization,	we	are	sharpening	our	focus	on	important	environmental	issues	that bear on our business by identifying and integrating them into a strategic 
plan that will be managed centrally and include work we do with our suppliers 
and customers.
The	Environment,	Health	and	Safety	organization	combined	the	existing	Safety,	
Health and Environmental Affairs (SHEA) functions of our Shared Services Group 
(SSG) with new functions focused on:
•	Establishing	enterprise	strategies	and	objectives	to	address	current	and	
potential future environmental issues associated with Boeing products, 
services, facilities and technologies, and those of its business partners. 
•	Defining	and	implementing	enterprise	environmental	management	systems	
and tools for integrating environmental capabilities into the company’s core operating processes, such as design and manufacturing. 
•	Establishing	standards,	processes	and	guidelines	for	routinely	tracking	
Boeing’s and its business partners’ performance to these environmental  plans	and	objectives.	In May 2007, Boeing stood up an 
expanded Environment, Health and Safety	organization	with	a	mandate	for strategic direction and guidance on the environment and with leadership direction from the most senior level in the company.
Our Environmental and  
 Climate Change Policies
Environment, Health and  	 Safety	Organization
Commitment to RemediationPerformance TargetsEnvironmental ManagementCEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 262008 Environment Report
Commitment to Remediation
Boeing is committed to doing its part to clean up locations affected by our  
past business operations.
Protecting human health and the environment in the communities where we 
operate remains our top priority. We are engaged and play a leadership role  with local communities, remediation professionals and regulatory authorities  to find the best cleanup solutions and conduct our work in an open and trans-
parent manner. 
In 2007, Boeing made a landmark commitment to dedicate nearly 2,400 acres  
of land in the Santa Susana Mountains of California to open space parkland 
upon completion of a thorough and timely cleanup of the former rocket-test and 
nuclear energy research site. The cleanup will be conducted in compliance with stringent regulatory standards and final remedy activities will be complete by 2017. More than 15 key compliance deliverables were submitted in 2007, 
including work plans, investigative reports and data summaries.
To expedite cleanup activities, we continually evaluate and employ innovative 
engineering technologies. For example, our team in Santa Susana has partnered 
with regulatory agencies, the community and leading professionals to develop 
and implement advanced, cutting-edge technologies for the treatment of stormwater runoff from the site. 
Managing stormwater runoff from the site continues to be a technical challenge, 
and in 2007 Boeing paid a $471,000 penalty for failing to meet local water quality standards—approximately half of which was paid in support of research on water quality improvement, research and education programs in the local 
area. Boeing considers such events unacceptable and is working to implement 
the engineering improvements to ensure regulatory compliance.
Like	our	operating	business,	Boeing	remediation	staff	utilize	Lean+	approaches	
for continual process improvement and sustainability. 
We	have	also	achieved	significant	progress	in	our	continuing	efforts	to	finalize	
cleanup plans for the Duwamish Waterway in Washington State. Boeing contin-
ues to work closely with local, state and federal agencies, local community 
groups and tribes to develop cleanup plans. While this work is taking place,  we have been aggressively cleaning up sources of potential contaminants  from	our	historic	operations	at	Boeing	Field	and	adjacent	areas.A site of great natural, cultural and 
historic significance, Santa Susana will be preserved as a vital undevel-oped open space link in the Santa Susana Mountains for future generations. Boeing will continue to work closely with our neighbors, government partners and the local community toward this goal. 
Our Environmental and  
 Climate Change Policies
Environment, Health and  	 Safety	Organization
Commitment to RemediationPerformance TargetsEnvironmental ManagementCEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 272008 Environment Report
Boeing continued to make significant progress on other remediation programs 
in	2007.	Highlights	included	achieving	major	milestones	in	initiating	groundwater	
cleanup	at	several	projects	in	California	and	obtaining	agency	approval	on	the	
final soil and groundwater cleanup plans for the former Chemical Commodities Inc. Superfund site in Kansas. Steady progress was made at numerous other sites with the achievement of intermediate milestones that will ultimately lead  
to completion of investigation and cleanup activities at these sites. (continued from page 26)
Our Environmental and  
 Climate Change Policies
Environment, Health and  	 Safety	Organization
Commitment to RemediationPerformance TargetsEnvironmental ManagementCEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 282008 Environment Report
Performance Targets
Over the last 10 years, Boeing has reduced absolute energy use by 37 percent 
and	hazardous	waste	by	52	percent.*	
Reductions	in	hazardous	waste	were	driven	by	more	efficient,	Lean+	manufac-
turing methods, such as kitting chemicals to reduce excess waste and expired material; using more environmentally progressive materials, such as a low solvent top-coat painting to reduce the amount of solvent used in painting 
processes; and improving material management systems.
Our energy conservation efforts, driven by reduced demand for production 
requirements, investments in more efficient building systems and equipment at 
our sites, Lean+ methods to reduce consumption and waste, and employee 
awareness campaigns highlighting behavioral conservation opportunities, significantly reduced our energy consumption. 
It’s a good start, but we are committed to doing much more.
That’s why we have established five-year targets to reduce energy use, green-
house	gas	emissions	intensity	and	hazardous	waste	and	to	increase	recycling	
rates.	By	2012	at	our	major	manufacturing	facilities,	we	are	targeting	25	percent	
improvement goals for solid waste recycling rates, energy efficiency and greenhouse gas emissions intensity; and we have set a comparable goal for hazardous	waste	reduction.	This	equates	to	an	absolute	1	percent	reduction	in	
greenhouse	gas	emissions,	hazardous	waste	and	energy	use	and	an	improve-
ment in recycling rates from about 60 percent to 75 percent of solid waste during a time of significant growth. While aggressive, these targets are achiev-able and will ensure that we hold waste and emissions down while growing our 
business. To achieve these, we must drive environmental thinking and action 
into every facet of our business.Our Environmental and  
 Climate Change Policies
Environment, Health and  	 Safety	Organization
Commitment to RemediationPerformance TargetsEnvironmental Management
*Normalized	for	the	divestiture	of	the	Wichita	site.	CEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 292008 Environment Report
Our commitment to environmental stewardship extends beyond our operations 
to our products. Boeing Commercial Airplanes has committed to continue our 
dedication to environmental design innovation by:
•	Improving	fuel	efficiency	and	carbon	dioxide	emissions	for	each	new	 
generation of airliners by at least 15 percent. 
•	Directing	more	than	75	percent	of	research	and	development	to	benefit	
environmental performance, including work on fuel efficiency.
•	Improving	the	performance	of	worldwide	fleet	operations,	focusing	on	an	
industry goal of 25 percent improvements in worldwide fleet fuel use and  
CO 2 emissions by 2020. (continued from page 28)Our Environmental and  
 Climate Change Policies
Environment, Health and  	 Safety	Organization
Commitment to RemediationPerformance TargetsEnvironmental ManagementCEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 302008 Environment Report
Environmental Management
We are committed to continuously reducing our environmental footprint. During 
2008 we plan to drive improvements into our core operations in three key ways.
ISO 14001
We	will	certify	all	major	Boeing	manufacturing	sites	to	the	International	Organi-zation	for	Standardization	14001	environmental	management	system	standard	(ISO 14001) by the end of 2008 to help reduce pollution and waste and improve 
energy efficiency and recycling rates. ISO 14001 is considered a global bench-
mark	of	an	organization’s	commitment	to	understand	and	continuously	improve	its environmental performance. It will provide the foundation of a common 
environmental management system for the entire company and allow a better 
comparison of performance at different locations.
Three Boeing facilities—Exmouth,Australia; Everett, Wash.; and Portland, 
Ore.—have already achieved the certification and documented improvements  
in environmental performance. For example, our Everett facility saved 15,800 
MMBTUs	of	energy	by	implementing	projects	to	reduce	natural	gas	usage	and	6,000 megawatt hours of energy through electrical system improvements. 
Combined,	these	energy-saving	projects	equaled	reductions	of	more	than	 
2,040 tonnes (2,249 tons) of greenhouse gas emissions in 2007.
Lean+
Lean+, a set of continuous improvement principles and practices, is a natural 
ally of the environment. While not strictly an environmental program, its key 
components	include	increasing	operational	efficiency,	minimizing	waste	and	conserving resources. We are applying Lean+ across the company and its value 
stream. Through the relentless prevention and elimination of waste and replica-
tion of best practices across the company, even relatively small efficiency gains add	up	to	yield	impressive	results.	In	just	four	years,	we	have	reduced	our	hazardous	waste	output	by	42	percent,	electricity	use	by	21	percent	and	water	
use by 19 percent.Through the integration of Boeing’s 
Lean+ production philosophy, certification to the internationally recognized	ISO	14001	environmental	management system standard and  a commitment to recycling, Boeing facilities are continually improving their environmental performance. 
Our Environmental and  
 Climate Change Policies
Environment, Health and  	 Safety	Organization
Commitment to RemediationPerformance TargetsEnvironmental ManagementCEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 312008 Environment Report
Between 1999 and 2005, Lean improvements have produced notable results  
in specific areas:
•	Boeing	Commercial	Airplanes:	737	Airplane	Program
	 23	percent	reduction	in	hazardous	waste	 24 percent reduction in acreage
	 41	percent	reduction	in	factory	size 52 percent reduction in power consumption
•	Integrated	Defense	Systems:	F/A—18	Super	Hornet	Program
	 73	percent	reduction	in	hazardous	materials	
	 Built	in	program	requirements	for	hazardous	materials	management	 Introduced	a	non-ozone	depleting	fire	suppressant
•	Shared	Services	Group:	Enterprise	Energy	Conservation
 37 percent reduction in energy use
 27 percent reduction in water
A Commitment to Recycling
We are working to ensure that materials used in our products, services and operations, including metals and composites, are recycled for high-value 
industrial uses. We also reduce and recycle everyday materials, including  
paper and packaging, and are identifying waste reduction opportunities such  as paper-free work processes. 
And recycling goes beyond our operations. That’s why in 2006 we brought  
19 companies into a common industry working group called the Aircraft Fleet Recycling Association (AFRA). The AFRA network provides the most complete set of tools for aircraft owners to deal with the end-of-life of their equipment—
now and in the future. The association’s members share a commitment to (continued from page 30)
Our Environmental and  
 Climate Change Policies
Environment, Health and  	 Safety	Organization
Commitment to RemediationPerformance TargetsEnvironmental ManagementCEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 322008 Environment Report
improving older fleet asset management and fostering the recovery and the  
safe and environmentally progressive reuse of aerospace materials. In less than 
two	years,	member	organizations	have:
•	Remarketed	(returned	to	service)	approximately	2,000	planes	•	Scrapped	more	than	5,000	commercial	aircraft	
•	Scrapped	more	than	1,000	military	aircraft	(800	tactical)
Our	objectives	for	aircraft	recycling	include	offering	airline	customers	end-of-life	
and maintenance options that will resell planes that are fit to return to service; 
offering safe parts recovery; scrapping and recycling planes that are not fit for 
service; and greatly improving materials recovery from retired planes and manufacturing scrap.(continued from page 31)
Our Environmental and  
 Climate Change Policies
Environment, Health and  	 Safety	Organization
Commitment to RemediationPerformance TargetsEnvironmental ManagementCEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 332008 Environment Report
Improving Environmental Performance
Boeing sites in Exmouth, Australia; Everett, Wash.; and Portland, Ore.—all of 
which are ISO 14001 certified—have documented myriad improvements in 
environmental performance. Boeing’s Shared Services Group and the operating 
groups at these locations have played a key role in implementing these and many	other	projects	focused	on	reducing	Boeing’s	environmental	footprint	and	increasing operating efficiency. Here’s a look at some of the many numbers 
relating to this work.
6,000
Megawatt hours saved in Everett through electrical system improvements. 
That’s enough to light more than 2,000 homes for one year and equals a 
reduction of more than 1,200 tonnes (1,323 tons) of greenhouse gas emissions)
15.8 billion
Number of BTUs Everett saved by improvements to a natural-gas system. This 
amount of energy equals 840 tonnes (926 tons) of greenhouse gas emissions. 
1,100
Pounds	(500	kilograms)	of	R-22	refrigerant,	an	ozone-depleting	compound,	no	
longer used in Everett’s 40-83, thanks to retrofitting air-conditioning equipment. 
This change also cut electrical energy consumption by 256,000 kilowatts annually. 
44.5
Percentage reduction in the volume of waste sent to landfills by Exmouth in 
2007, compared to 2006, thanks to recycling efforts.
25 
Percentage decrease in water consumption at Exmouth in 2006, compared  
to the previous year
8.7 million
Pounds (4 million kilograms) of metal recycled by Portland in 2007. 
93.9
Percentage of all solid waste recycled—which includes metal ships— by Portland in 2007. (continued from page 32)
Three Boeing Facilities — Exmouth, 
Australia; Everett, Washington; and Portland, Oregon — have been certified to the ISO 14001 environ-mental management system standard. These facilities have documented numerous environmen-tal improvements.
Our Environmental and  
 Climate Change Policies
Environment, Health and  	 Safety	Organization
Commitment to RemediationPerformance TargetsEnvironmental ManagementCEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 34Energy Conservation
Carbon Dioxide EmissionsWater ConservationHazardous	Waste	and	RecyclingToxic Release InventoryEnvironmental Awards2008 Environment Report
Operational Performance 
Improvements
On	a	revenue-adjusted	basis	
since 2002, Boeing has reduced:
•	Carbon	dioxide	emissions	 
by 24 percent 
•	Energy	consumption	by	 
24 percent 
•	Hazardous	waste	by	 
30 percent 
Environmental Recognition
Boeing has won numerous 
environmental awards, including:
•	Water	quality	awards
•	EPA	Environmental	Outstand-
ing Achievement Award
•	Clean	Air	Campaign	Awards
•	Secretary	of	the	Navy	Award	
for Environmental ExcellenceOperational Performance
The work that we have done to date is the  
foundation for the extensive efforts that lie 
ahead. Here is a snapshot of our operational 
environmental performance in some key areas, as well as the recognition we’ve received for  
our environmental efforts.
CEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 35Energy Conservation
Carbon Dioxide EmissionsWater ConservationHazardous	Waste	and	RecyclingToxic Release InventoryEnvironmental Awards2008 Environment Report
Progress achieved as of 2007
 Energy Ef ficiency: -24.8%   Hazar dous W aste -30.7%  C O2 Emissions Intensity: -24.4%Energy, Emissions and W aste – 2002 to 2007
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2012Targeting a further 
25% impr ovement in 
energy ef ficiency,  
CO2 emissions intensity 
and hazar dous waste 
from 2008 to 2012.100
75
5025
0
YearPercent
Performance indicators normalized to r evenue. Ener gy: MMBtu / $mil. CO2 Emissions: metric ton / $mil. Hazar dous W aste: ton / $mil.Operational PerformanceCEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 362008 Environment Report
» Energy Conservation
Carbon Dioxide Emissions
Water ConservationHazardous	Waste	and	RecyclingToxic Release InventoryEnvironmental AwardsTaking into account our production rate increases, we have reduced energy 
consumption	on	a	revenue-adjusted	basis	by	24.8	percent	since	2002.	From	
2002 to 2007, we conducted 43 Lean energy events at sites across the United 
States, identifying potential energy savings of 518,000 MMBtus. We sponsor internal energy awards to document and replicate best practices across the company;	from	2002	to	2006,	our	sites	submitted	72	projects	that	resulted	in	
annual energy consumption reductions of 861,300 MMBtus. 
We also diligently implemented energy conservation programs and increased 
efficiencies by upgrading lighting, energy management control systems and 
HVAC and other mechanical systems in our buildings and sites. We also 
improved our wall insulation and increased communications with our employees to raise awareness of behavioral conservation opportunities. Increased conser -
vation and infrastructure investments are anticipated to yield further reductions, 
in support of our target to increase our energy efficiency by 25 percent in the 
next	five	years	so	that	we	more	than	offset	the	projected	increases	in	our	production rates with environmental improvements.Energy Conservation
Energy Use at Major U.S. Sites
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 200713.2
12.4
11.911.711.912.515
10
5
0
YearMMBTU (in millions)-5.3%
since 2002
Footnotes:
- Energy is calculated only from electricity and natural gas. Other fuels are not represented in these totals.
- Normalized for divestitures by excluding Wichita, now Spirit AeroSystems, from 2002 to 2005. IDS Wichita is included.- Re/f_lects energy use from major U.S. manufacturing operations.
CEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 372008 Environment Report
» Energy Conservation
Carbon Dioxide Emissions
Water ConservationHazardous	Waste	and	RecyclingToxic Release InventoryEnvironmental Awards
Energy Ef/f_iciency at Major U.S. Sites
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007250.8
252.4
232.2219.1193.5188.5300
200100
0
YearMMBTU / $ Million-24.8%
since 2002
Footnotes:
- Energy is calculated only from electricity and natural gas. Other fuels are not represented in these totals.
- Normalized for divestitures by excluding Wichita, now Spirit AeroSystems, from 2002 to 2005. IDS Wichita is included.- Re/f_lects energy use from major U.S. manufacturing operations.
(continued from page 36)CEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 382008 Environment Report
Energy Conservation
» Carbon Dioxide Emissions
Water ConservationHazardous	Waste	and	RecyclingToxic Release InventoryEnvironmental AwardsCarbon Dioxide Emissions
CO 2 Emissions at Major U.S. Sites
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 20071.36
1.301.26 1.211.251.301.5
1.00.5
0
YearMetric Tons (in millions)-4.8%
since 2002
Footnotes:
- Boeing calculates its corporate-wide emissions using the Climate Leaders GHG Inventory Guidance, which de/f_ines how Partners working with EPA 
inventory and report their GHG emissions. This Guidance is based on the existing GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard 
developed by the World Resources Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development.  
- Like energy use, CO 2 emissions are calculated only from electricity and natural gas. Other fuels are not represented in these totals.
- Normalized for divestitures by excluding Wichita, now Spirit AeroSystems, from 2002 to 2005. IDS Wichita is included.
- Re/f_lects CO 2 emissions from all major U.S. manufacturing operations.
Reductions in carbon dioxide emissions result from our reduced energy consump-
tion. Taking into account our production rate increases, we have reduced our 
CO 2	emissions	on	a	revenue-adjusted	basis	by	24.4	percent	since	2002.	And	we 	
will continue to reduce emissions to support our goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions intensity by 25 percent in the next five years so that we more than offset 
the	projected	increases	in	our	production	rates	with	environmental	improvements.
In this report, Boeing uses measurements of carbon dioxide emissions and 
energy	use	from	major	U.S.	facilities.	This	method	allows	us	the	most	consistent	
and accurate way to measure targets and performance improvements. The energy  
consumption at those facilities in 2007 resulted in 1.3 million tons of CO
2. 
Boeing may later in 2008 disclose an estimate of more comprehensive carbon dioxide emissions and energy use figures under the scope of the Carbon 
Disclosure	Project	(CDP6).	CEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 392008 Environment Report
CO 2 Emissions Intensity at Major U.S. Sites
 
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 200725.8 26.424.522.520.419.630
2010
0
YearMetric Tons / $ Millions-24.4%
since 2002
Footnotes:
- Boeing calculates its corporate-wide emissions using the Climate Leaders GHG Inventory Guidance, which de/f_ines how Partners working with EPA 
inventory and report their GHG emissions. This Guidance is based on the existing GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard 
developed by the World Resources Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development.  
- Like energy use, CO 2 emissions are calculated only from electricity and natural gas. Other fuels are not represented in these totals.
- Normalized for divestitures by excluding Wichita, now Spirit AeroSystems, from 2002 to 2005. IDS Wichita is included.
- Re/f_lects CO 2 emissions from all major U.S. manufacturing operations.
(continued from page 38)Energy Conservation
» Carbon Dioxide Emissions
Water ConservationHazardous	Waste	and	RecyclingToxic Release InventoryEnvironmental AwardsCEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 402008 Environment Report
Energy Conservation
Carbon Dioxide Emissions» Water Conservation
Hazardous	Waste	and	RecyclingToxic Release InventoryEnvironmental AwardsBoeing has reduced water consumption by 28.2 percent since 2002 by aggres-
sively implementing improvements in our production processes and building 
systems equipment. We chartered a Water Conservation team to lead our 
improvement	efforts,	implemented	major	water	reduction	projects	ranging	from	total wastewater and steam condensate recycling to rinse water reduction, and outfitted our newly constructed and renovated buildings with low-flow toilets, 
faucet aerators and auto-off faucets. And we will continue to pursue further 
improvements in this important area, even as our production rates increase. Water Conservation
Water Use at U.S. Sites
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 20073.22.9 2.8 2.72.42.36
420
YearGallons (in billions)-28.2%
since 2002
Footnotes:
- Re/f_lects water usage from U.S. operations only.
- Includes Wichita, now Spirit AeroSystems, from 2002 to 2005.- 2007 water use data is estimated.
CEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 412008 Environment Report
Energy Conservation
Carbon Dioxide EmissionsWater Conservation»	 Hazardous	Waste	and	RecyclingToxic Release InventoryEnvironmental Awards
Boeing	is	aggressively	pursuing	reductions	in	hazardous	waste	across	the	value	
stream, from better coordination with our partners to reduce unused chemicals to 
replacing	hazardous	materials	with	more	environmentally	progressive	solutions.	  
Since	2002,	hazardous	waste	has	been	reduced	by	30.7	percent	on	a	revenue-
adjusted 	basis.	Last	year,	Boeing’s 	Mesa	facility	began	using	a	new,	chrome-free	  
paint primer on Apache helicopters in production to reduce chrome usage and 
manufacturing waste. And our paint hangars in Everett, Seattle and Renton, 
Wash., have replaced the conventional chromated conversion coat with a Boeing-invented sol-gel material to eliminate chromium. At our Everett paint hangar in 2007, the chemical substitution resulted in a reduction in rinse water 
usage by 160,000 gallons and eliminated chromated wastewater for this process. 
We will boost our recycling rates from approximately 60 percent to 75 percent 
by 2012 through a number of different initiatives, including the maturing of office 
recycling programs to reduce cans, bottles and paper from landfills. Specific 
sites have already made significant improvements; for example, our fabrication facility in Portland, Ore., recycled 93 percent of all solid waste in 2007.Hazardous Waste and Recycling
Hazardous Waste at U.S. Sites
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 200710.22
8.309.11
7.038.77 8.9115
10
5
0
YearTons (in thousands)-12.8%
since 2002
Footnotes:
- Re/f_lects hazardous waste from U.S. operations only.
- Totals normalized for divestitures by excluding Wichita, now Spirit AeroSystems, from 2002 to 2005.- Operational hazardous waste does not include remediation and construction activity.
CEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 422008 Environment Report
Energy Conservation
Carbon Dioxide EmissionsWater Conservation»	 Hazardous	Waste	and	RecyclingToxic Release InventoryEnvironmental Awards
Hazardous Waste Normalized to Enterprise Revenue
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 20070.194
0.1670.177
0.1310.143
0.1340.20
0.10
0
YearTons / $ Million-30.8%
since 2002
Footnotes:
- Re/f_lects hazardous waste from U.S. operations only.
- Totals normalized for divestitures by excluding Wichita, now Spirit AeroSystems, from 2002 to 2005.- Operational hazardous waste does not include remediation and construction activity.
(continued from page 41)CEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 432008 Environment Report
Energy Conservation
Carbon Dioxide EmissionsWater ConservationHazardous	Waste	and	Recycling» Toxic Release Inventory
Environmental AwardsBoeing significantly reduced its Toxic Release Inventory releases through the 
reformulation of more environmentally progressive manufacturing materials and 
the	application	of	Lean	principles	to	minimize	usage	and	waste.	
However, transfers increased in 2006 due to production rate increases and a 
reduction in the amount of chemicals we treated on-site at some of our facilities (which resulted in offsite shipments for treatment).Toxic Release Inventory
Toxic Release Inventory (TRI)*     
Releases**  2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
 Releases (millions of lbs) 0.61 0.47 0.33 0.22 0.25
 Percentage change  -23% -46% -64% -59%
 Normalized to revenue (lbs/million $ revenue) 12 10 6 4 4
 Percentage change from normalized  -18% -45% -65% -65%
Transfer***      
 Transfers (millions of lbs) 2.1 1.7 1.8 1.7 3.3
 Percentage change  -19% -14% -19% 57%
 Normalized to revenue (lbs/million $ revenue) 40 34 35 32 54
 Percentage change from normalized  -13% -12% -20% 35%
 Total release and transfers (millions of lbs) 2.7 2.2 2.1 1.9 3.5
 Percentage change  -19% -22% -30% 30%
 Normalized to revenue (lbs/million $ revenue) 51 45 41 35 57
 Percentage change from normalized  -13% -20% -31% 11%
     
 Revenue (billions) 52.7 49.3 51.4 53.6 61.5
 * Normalized for major divestitures, including the Wichita site.
 ** Releases are direct to air, water and land. *** Transfers are shipments off-site and to Public Owned Treatment Works (POTW).
CEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 442008 Environment Report
Energy Conservation
Carbon Dioxide EmissionsWater ConservationHazardous	Waste	and	RecyclingToxic Release Inventory» Environmental Awards
We are committed to working with the community and being transparent in  
our	operations	and	remediation	activities.	Our	efforts	have	been	recognized	 
by	a	number	of	independent	organizations.	But	our	real	satisfaction	comes	 
from knowing our work is having a positive effect on the environment. 
•	Five	Boeing	employees—Steven	Baughcum,	Mikhail	Danilin,	Douglas	DuBois,	
Stephen Henderson and Donald Sutkus—were presented certificates of 
appreciation by the International Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) for contrib-
uting	substantially	to	the	work	leading	to	the	Nobel	Peace	Prize	awarded	the	IPCC in 2007 for its efforts on man-made climate change research. The 
employees served as lead authors on chapters focused on aircraft emissions 
scenarios, modeling of aircraft emissions impact on atmospheric composition, aircraft technology, and aircraft-produced aerosols and cloudiness for the 1999 IPCC Special Report on “Aviation and the Global Atmosphere.” Baugh-
cum and Danilin have also actively served as technical reviewers of the main 
IPCC climate change assessment reports over the last ten years. Boeing is continuing to study how aviation can lessen its environmental impact.
•	Boeing’s	Renton	and	North	Boeing	Field	sites	in	Washington	State	were	
recognized	by	the	King	County	Department	of	Natural	Resources	for	meeting	all of the industrial wastewater discharge permit terms and conditions. This recognition marked North Boeing Field’s 11th consecutive annual Gold Award 
and Renton’s 10th consecutive annual Gold Award. 
•	The	F/A-18E/F	and	EA-18G	Acquisition	Programs	Green	Hornet	Team	 
recently captured its fourth consecutive Chief of Naval Operations Environ-mental Excellence in Weapon System Acquisition team award. Established  
in 1993, the team focuses on developing ideas that lead to improving existing processes or products—or sometimes replacing them with more environmen-tally progressive substitutes. The team’s work has had a direct impact at  
St.	Louis-based	Boeing	facilities,	helping	to	reduce	hazardous	wastes	by	
more than 62 percent since 2005.Environmental Awards CEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 452008 Environment Report
(continued from page 44)Energy Conservation
Carbon Dioxide EmissionsWater ConservationHazardous	Waste	and	RecyclingToxic Release Inventory» Environmental Awards
•	The	P-8A	Poseidon	Environment,	Safety	and	Occupational	Health	team	
recently received the Secretary of the Navy Award for Environmental Excel-
lence and the Chief of Naval Operations Environmental Excellence in Weapon 
System Acquisition team award for exceptional environmental stewardship. The	team	was	recognized	for	incorporating	environmentally	progressive	design, material substitution, pollution prevention and recycling into the acqui-
sition process. By undertaking environmental assessments for flight testing 
and incorporating a robust methodology, compliant with federal regulations DoD 5000.1 and 5000.2, to more efficiently manage environmental consider -
ations throughout the airplanes’ life cycle—from design to operations to 
end-of-life disposal—the team has implemented significant improvements.
•	Boeing	Mesa,	Ariz.,	captured	an	EPA	Environmental	Outstanding	Achievement	
Award	for	its	contributions	to	protecting	the	environment	in	Arizona.	
•	Boeing	Mesa,	Ariz.,	received	Clean	Air	Campaign	Awards	for	Outstanding	Trip	
Reduction and Outstanding Alternate Mode User (Bicyclist).
•	Boeing	San	Antonio,	Tex.,	received	the	Alamo	Area	Council	of	Governments	
Environmental Stewardship Award.
•	Local	water	quality	awards	were	presented	by	water	treatment	districts	to	
many Boeing sites, including Portland, Ore.; Wichita, Kan.; St. Louis and  St. Charles, Miss.; the Boeing Electronics Center in Renton, Wash.; and  
San Antonio and El Paso, Tex.CEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 462008 Environment Report
Energy Conservation
Carbon Dioxide EmissionsWater ConservationHazardous	Waste	and	RecyclingToxic Release Inventory» Environmental Awards
U.S. Navy Honors Green Hornet Team Environmental Efforts
The F/A-18E/F and EA-18G Acquisition Programs Green Hornet Team recently 
captured its fourth consecutive Chief of Naval Operations Environmental 
Excellence in Weapon System Acquisition team award. 
Established in 1993, the team focuses on developing ideas that lead to improv-
ing existing processes or products—or sometimes replacing them with more environmentally progressive substitutes. The team’s work has had a direct 
impact	at	St.	Louis-based	Boeing	facilities,	helping	to	reduce	hazardous	wastes	
by more than 62 percent, since 2005. 
Led by the U.S. Navy’s F/A-18 and EA-18G program office, PMA-265, the team 
is composed of members from Boeing and other key Super Hornet suppliers, 
including Hornet Industry Team members Northrop Grumman, Raytheon and  GE Aviation. 
The team has made extensive progress, such as investigating ways to reduce 
engine noise and greenhouse gas emissions. Other successes include reducing—  
sometimes eliminating—airborne paint dust created by sanding operations. The new paint removal process developed by the team reduced paint dust particles 
and slashed process time by more than four hours per aircraft. (continued from page 45)CEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 47Boeing Environmental  
 Philanthropy
Boeing-Sponsored Employee   Volunteerism2008 Environment Report
Boeing made cash contributions 
of nearly $10 million over the last 
five years to support innovative 
environmental programs.
Boeing employees collectively 
donate thousands of hours  of their own time to company-sponsored environmental 
volunteer events each year.
 Investing in Our Communities
Boeing, through its Global Corporate Citizenship  
function and together with individual employees, 
is actively involved in efforts to preserve the 
environment.
CEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 482008 Environment Report
» Boeing Environmental  
 Philanthropy
Boeing-Sponsored Employee  
 VolunteerismRecognizing	the	interdependence	between	our	business	and	our	communities,	
we believe that partnering with nonprofits and other key community stakeholders  
to promote environmental preservation is key to our role as a global  corporate	citizen.	
In fact, the environment is one of Boeing’s five strategic community investment 
areas. Over the last five years alone, as a company we have made cash contri-
butions of nearly $10 million to support innovative environmental programs 
across the globe to protect vital natural assets, restore or improve critical habitats	and	train	citizens	to	protect	and	preserve	the	environment.	
In 2007, our environmental preservation efforts included grants to:
•	Green	Corridor	in	support	of	its	Tree	Buddies	program,	which	teaches	 
middle school-aged students environmental awareness through visits to 
London’s Royal Botanic Gardens and other educational activities. 
•	Bio	Trek,	part	of	the	Biological	Sciences	Department	of	California	State	
Polytechnic University, to help it expand an educational outreach program. 
•	The	Nature	Conservancy	of	Alabama	in	support	of	the	Whitaker	Bridge	 
and	Trails	Project.
•	Bolsa	Chica	Conservancy,	a	nonprofit	coalition	dedicated	to	protecting	 
the Pacific Coast wetlands, for an educational program for high school  
and college students.
These nonprofits and the many more like them that we support each year 
underscore our emphasis on environmental preservation and conservation 
through community investment.Boeing Environmental Philanthropy 
Through Green Corridor’s Tree 
Buddies program, students are taught environmental awareness. Here, they participated in an art workshop where they created larger-than-life models of butterflies out of willow tree branches and paper.
Photo Courtesy of Green Corridor
CEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 492008 Environment Report
Cascade Land Conservancy
The Cascade Land Conservancy was awarded a $750,000 grant from The 
Boeing Company to support the work of The Cascade Agenda in forests, along 
creeks and streams and in the restoration of forested parks.
The grant, one of the largest strategically invested with an environmental 
nonprofit by Boeing, comes as the Conservancy moves into the public phase  of a $20 million Cascade Agenda Campaign, designed to implement the goals 
and strategies of The Agenda. The Cascade Agenda, launched in May 2005,  
is a 100-year visionary regional program focused on conserving 1.3 million  acres	of	working	forests,	farmlands	and	revitalizing	cities	and	towns	throughout	
the region.
“This grant reflects the far-reaching promise of The Cascade Agenda and the 
proven track record of the Cascade Land Conservancy,” said Mary Armstrong, vice president of Environment, Health and Safety for The Boeing Company. 
“Boeing is proud to continue its long-standing support for the environment 
because it helps us maintain the Puget Sound region as an attractive, vibrant and competitive place for our employees to live and work.”
The Conservancy will use the gift as a catalyst to accelerate its work on imple-
menting the goals of The Agenda, which links significant land conservation with the need for housing choices, livable cities and a strong economy.(continued from page 48)
» Boeing Environmental  
 Philanthropy
Boeing-Sponsored Employee  
 VolunteerismCEO Message | Pioneering Technologies | Stewardship | Operational Performance | Community Investment
Page 502008 Environment Report
Boeing Environmental  
 Philanthropy
» Boeing-Sponsored Employee  
 VolunteerismBoeing’s employees are integral to the company’s commitment to environmental 
improvement, and they are active in company-sponsored volunteer events to 
which they collectively donate thousands of hours of their own time each year. 
These	activities	often	leverage	relationships	with	grantees	in	order	to	maximize	Boeing’s impact, such as the annual volunteer event with Florida nonprofit  Keep Brevard Beautiful to clean up the “spoil islands” that dot the Indian River 
Lagoon and Banana River.
In addition, the Employees Community Fund of The Boeing Company, one  
of the world’s largest employee-owned and directed giving programs of its  
kind, makes grants to environmental nonprofits using contributions from 
employee members.Boeing-Sponsored Employee Volunteerism
Boeing employees participate in a 
wetlands	clean-up	day	organized	by	Boeing at the Bolsa Chica Conser -
vancy in Southern California.
Photo Courtesy of the Bolsa Chica 
Conservancy
