INTEGRATED REPORT
A Message from the Business Leader
Braskem
Geographical Footprint
Organizational Culture
Corporate Governance
Business Model
Highlights 2020
Strategic Planning
Risk Management
Challenges of the Covid-19 Pandemic
Focus on Sustainable DevelopmentCapital Performance
Financial Capital
Manufactured Capital
Intellectual Capital
Human Capital
Social and Relationship Capital
Natural Capital
About the Report
Materiality 
ESG Dashboard
CreditsContentsINTEGRATED REPORT  
BRASKEM 2020
Striving for transparency in our communication to 
investors, customers, suppliers, associates and the 
communities where we operate, this enhanced report 
combines our Annual Report, featuring the company's 
sustainability indicators, and the Integrated Report 
providing relevant information to investors and other 
parties in the financial market. This new model was 
designed to communicate our intentions and actions 
more clearly and concisely, showing how we generate 
value for the organization, our stakeholders and society. 
This report and its annexes present our main results in 
2020 and the socio-environmental indicators associated 
with our production processes.
Enjoy the read!
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
02The year 2020 was marked by uncertainties and atyp -
ical volatilities. The global spread of the Covid-19 and 
the consequent lower global demand for fuels impacted 
oil prices on the international market. While the huge 
drop in demand forced us to reduce the capacity of our 
factories during the first half of the year, in later months 
the global petrochemical industry bounced back stron -
ger than expected, with strong demand for thermoplas -
tic resins. The combination of higher consumption of 
plastic materials, supply constraints and falling naphtha 
prices led to healthier spreads.
In this context, we ended the year with strong gener -
ation of operating and financial results. Regarding our 
focus on people, we worked to combat the pandemic 
while seeking to support our entire value chain, and we 
have made significant progress related to the geological 
phenomenon in Alagoas. We also renewed our long-term 
goals, emphasizing sustainability as a strategic pillar 
for our business and maintained our support to the UN 
Global Compact and its principles.
Throughout 2020, we continued to focus on our objec -
tives: improving people's lives by creating sustainable 
chemical and plastic solutions, capturing opportunities and creating value for all stakeholders in our chain, and 
addressing concerns regarding the future of the planet 
and society.
AGILITY AND COOPERATION IN FIGHTING  
THE PANDEMIC
We have adopted a series of measures to safeguard 
people's health, protect the efficiency of our industri -
al and commercial operations and preserve our cash. 
With the safety of employees and third parties in mind, 
we took measures to protect those who were at the 
greatest risk, operating with small teams and adopting 
strict security protocols to prevent Covid-19 transmis -
sion. We soon had 100% of our corporate teams work -
ing from home, since workplace flexibility practices 
have been in place for some years as part of our digital 
transformation.
We worked even closer with our value chain, supporting 
them so they can not only survive but come out of this 
challenging period safe and strong. Despite the tempo -
rary reduction in the use of our capacities, we met the 
needs of our customers and the markets in which we 
operate thanks to the synergies between our global units. 
Roberto Simões   
Braskem's Business LeaderA Message from the Business Leader
GRI 102-14 
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
03 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER We also provided a R$ 1 billion line of credit with special 
conditions for our customers, analyzing their needs case 
by case.  We donated approximately R$ 11 million to sur -
rounding communities and society at large in products or 
financial support in global actions against Covid-19.
Additionally, we adopted measures to preserve our cash, 
for example, by reducing investments and fixed expens -
es and optimizing working capital with relevant suppliers.
As shelter-in-place measures were gradually lifted after 
the first pandemic wave, the global economy responded 
with strong recovery and increased demand for thermo -
plastic resins, mostly driven by the sectors of greatest 
consumption during the pandemic - packaging and med -
ical applications. In addition, we postponed the start of 
operations of new capacities in the global petrochemical 
market, given the uncertainties associated with the evo -
lution of the pandemic. These combined factors allowed 
us to resume normal manufacturing and commercial 
operations by the end of June, closing 2020 with a quar -
terly record of resin sales in the Brazilian market and sales 
growth in the United States, Europe and Mexico, leading 
to an operating recurring result of approximately R$ 11.0 
billion and R$ 1.3 billion in free cash generation.
FOCUS ON BUSINESS STRATEGY
In corporate strategy, we made important advances 
in initiatives related to our defined strategic pillars. In productivity and competitiveness, we reduced the rate 
of accidents with and without leave by 27% compared 
to 2019, reaching the best result in the last four years 
and underscoring our non-negotiable commitment to 
ensuring safety for people.  This improved safety record 
reflects the stronger commitment from all levels of 
leadership and the success of our Human Reliability Pro -
gram, aimed at minimizing failures and losses in opera -
tional processes through extensive awareness-raising 
and training for internal teams and third parties working 
in the plants.
In addition, we renewed contracts for the supply of 
naphtha, ethane and propane to petrochemical plants in 
Brazil and implemented Transform for Value, a program 
designed to coordinate, accelerate and focus on the 
company's main process and productivity improvement 
initiatives, capturing an estimated cost savings of  
US$ 55 million per year in 2020. 
Regarding feedstock and supplier diversification we 
mitigated the effects of the shortage of raw materials 
for our operations in Mexico through the Fast-Track 
project for importing ethane from the United States, 
accounting for 9% of the plant utilization rate and sup -
plying approximately 35,000 tons of imported ethane 
in the last quarter of 2020.
We also advanced in geographic diversification, with 
the start of operations of the new polypropylene plant 
(Delta Project) in La Porte, Texas, ramping up to 90% utilization rate by the end of the year. This new capac -
ity reinforces our leadership in the USA polypropylene 
market and makes us the largest producer in the Ameri -
cas. The new plant enhances our balanced profile in raw 
materials, featuring propylene as the most relevant raw 
material for our global operations.
Regarding the geological event in Alagoas, we reaf -
firmed our commitment to the safety of people and 
communities in the areas in which we operate and 
we moved forward with the Financial Compensation 
and Relocation Support Program. By the end of 2020, 
we had relocated about 9,200 families in the neigh -
borhoods affected by the geological phenomenon 
and presented approximately 3,500 compensation 
proposals, 99.7% of which were accepted. Reaching 
agreements with the authorities, we extinguished two 
public civil actions against Braskem and provisioned 
approximately R$ 9.2 billion to date for the relocation 
and compensation of families, as well as infrastructure 
works and the repair of environmental, urban and social 
impacts in the affected areas, among other actions. 
On the operational front, we resumed the production 
of our chlorine-soda plant in Maceió, and will return 
to integrated PVC and caustic soda production in the 
state of Alagoas in 2021, now using imported salt as a 
raw material.
Aligned with ethical and governance principles, we ob -
tained the independent monitorship certificate issued 
by the Brazilian Federal Public Ministry, the United 
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
04 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER States Department of Justice (DoJ) and the Securi -
ties and Exchange Commission (SEC), attesting that 
we have complied with the obligations of the global 
agreement signed with the authorities and confirming 
that we have implemented an effective and robust 
Compliance Program. In fact, the program has been 
recognized by Brazilian public institutions and will serve 
as a model for other leniency agreements to be signed 
in the country.
In relation to financial health and discipline in the allo -
cation of capital, we ended the year with positive cash 
generation thanks to our strong operating result and 
robust cash position (US$ 2.9 billion), with sufficient li -
quidity to cover debt maturity over the next 84 months. 
In parallel, our deleveraging plan reduced corporate 
leverage from 4.71x in 2019 to 2.94x in 2020.    
A MORE SUSTAINABLE FUTURE, TODAY 
In 2020, we approved our Global Sustainable Develop -
ment Strategy, which publicly consolidates our medium 
-and long-term objectives regarding the material topics 
for our business and aligned with the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals and the Paris Agreement. As part of 
this strategy, we expanded our efforts to intensify our 
contribution to a Circular Carbon Neutral Economy. Our 
goals are to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050, reduce 
scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 15% by 2030, and in -
crease sales of our products with recycled content to 1 million tons/year by 2030.
We will follow a clear action plan with clearly defined 
and monitored goals, based on a broad portfolio of in -
vestment and research projects related to sustainabil -
ity. We already made significant progress during 2020, 
mainly in combating climate change and eliminating 
plastic waste.
We celebrated the 10th anniversary of our Green PE, 
internationally recognized for combining a renewable 
raw material with CO2 capture capacity, reaching a 
historical sales record of 170,000 tons. Reinforcing our 
commitment to combining sustainability with business, 
we announced the expansion of our production of green 
ethylene, the raw material made from sugarcane etha -
nol used to produce Green PE. We also signed contracts 
for the purchase of competitive renewable energy, 
reaching an estimated 1.5 million avoided CO2 emissions, 
and we announced partnerships to enable studies on 
carbon capture technologies.
On the plastic waste frot, we announced partnerships 
that will make it possible to sort and mechanically re-
cycle such waste, and moved forward in a partnership 
for enhanced chemical recycling technology. In addi -
tion, we expanded global sales of resins with recycled 
content, growing 284% compared to 2019 to a total of 
7.3 ktons sold.OUTLOOK FOR 2021
Progress in treatments and vaccines against Covid-19 
to control the number of cases and new variants will be 
a key factor for the effective global economic recov -
ery.  The likely petrochemical scenario includes health -
ier resin spreads in 2021, with sustained strong global 
demand. Chemical and plastic solutions will remain 
essential in 2021 and beyond, and we at Braskem will 
move on to implement the initiatives of our strategic 
pillars. Our key areas of focus will be to ensure safe 
operations, advance in actions related to the geolog -
ical phenomenon in Alagoas, find a definitive solution 
for the supply of ethane to our operations in Mexico, 
maintain our financial health, accelerate innovation 
and digital transformation and implement our com -
mitments to sustainable development. We are firmly 
committed to delivering value to all our stakeholders, 
today and in the future. 
 
Roberto Simões   
Braskem’s Business Leader
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
05 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER   Geographical Footprint
  Organizational Culture
  Corporate Governance
  Business Model
  Highlights 2020
Braskem SA is a global company that aims to improve 
people’s lives by creating sustainable solutions through 
chemicals and plastic. Our company was founded in 
2002, and today we are the sixth largest petrochemi -
cal company worldwide, the leader in the Americas in 
the production of thermoplastic resins  and the global 
leader in the production of biopolymers. GRI 102-1
Cracking large-molecule petroleum derivatives, natu -
ral gas and ethanol, we produce basic chemical in -
puts, such as ethylene, propene, butadiene, benzene, 
toluene, paraxylene, cumene, gasoline and caustic 
soda; and plastics, such as polyethylene (PE), polypro -
pylene (PP) and polyvinyl chloride (PVC). Our products 
are sold to companies in different industries, and then 
transformed into a variety of solutions for health, 
mobility, food, infrastructure and consumer goods.BraskemBRASKEM
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
06Our industry GRI 102-2, 103-2, 103-3 | 301
 
Chemicals and plastic are part of a great number 
of simple and complex daily activities, and indis -
pensable for many other industries. That is why 
the petrochemical sector is considered essential 
for the global economy, and even more so during 
the pandemic as chemicals and plastic are indis -pensable elements in the production of hospital 
items, hygiene products and packing.
Our sector is highly sensitive to global changes in 
supply and demand, and therefore cyclical - there 
are peaks when demand is greater than supply, 
leading to higher profit margins. Likewise, slack 
periods bring lower margins.
APPLICATIONSAdhesives
Home appliancesRubber
LubricantsAluminum
Automotive fuels
Steel mills
Pipes and fittingsCrop defensives
Footwear
Furniture and floors
Packaging and bags
PaintPharmaceutical and hospital itemsConstruction
Covers
Household itemsRAW MATERIALSNaphtha
Ethanol
Ethane
Propane
Propylene
Ethene
PRODUCTS FLOWCHARTToday our industry is experiencing lower polyethyle -
ne prices due to the entry of new petrochemical 
plants in the US and Asia, with new capacities affec -
ting the global supply and demand relationship. Our 
diversification strategy is designed to mitigate the 
effects of this cycle. Find out more about our work 
in this sector and the competitive scenario in this 
market in our Reference Form Annual Reports .PRODUCTSPE
PCR
EthenePP
PVC
Butadiene
TolueneGreen PE
Chlorine-soda
Propylene
BenzeneParaxyleneUTEC
EDCCHEMICALS
SolventsPOLYOLEFINS VINYLS
Gasoline
Other chemicals*
*High Purity Propane, Orthoxylene, Isoprene, Butene1, Hydrogen, ETBE / MTBE, Aromatics, among others.
Housing and  
infrastructure
Health
Agriculture  
and food
MobilityAvailability of water  
and sanitation
Performance improvement  
and cost reduction
Higher efficiency  
at lower cost
Greater durability and impact 
resistance, lower cost  
and rejection in the human 
body, less contamination  
and greater hygiene
Greater passenger safety, 
corrosion protection,  
fuel economy and lower rate  
of pollutant emissions into  
the atmosphereIncreased productivity,  
with lower water costs  
and reduced food wasteKEY REQUIREMENTS
BENEFITSBRASKEM
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
07United States
2 offices
• Philadelphia
• Houston
6 industrial plantsMexico
4  industrial 
plants
Asia
2 offices
• Singapore
• IndiaBrazil
4 offices
• Salvador
• São Paulo
• Rio de Janeiro
• Porto Alegre
29 industrial plantsEurope
1 office
•  Rotterdam  
(The Netherlands)
2  industrial plants 
(Germany)
Latin America
5 offices
• Lima (Peru)
• Santiago (Chile)
• Bogota (Colombia)
• Cidade do Mexico (Mexico)
• Buenos Aires (Argentina)Geographical Footprint
GRI 102-4, 102-6, 102-7
We have a global presence, with 
41 industrial units spread over 
Brazil, Mexico, the United States 
and Europe, and 14 business 
offices worldwide, including our 
Head Office in São Paulo.
We achieve results through a 
committed team of 8,000 team 
members in 11 countries. Our 
annual capacity is 10.7 million tons 
of chemicals and 9.3 million tons 
of thermoplastic resins. This wide 
and diversified product portfolio is 
transformed by our clients in more 
than 87 countries.
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
08BRASKEMOrganizational Culture GRI 102-16
We are a human-oriented company, and we aim to be rec -
ognized as one of the best companies to work for by 2025. 
Our culture is based on diversity, inclusion, equity, respect, 
trust and empathy. Since 2019, our values have been trans -
lated into the seven BeUx pillars that represent our value 
proposition to associates:1. You play the leading role  
Our relationships are based on trust, and this is the key 
to transformation. We encourage our team members 
to make a difference every day as they take actions and 
make decisions.
2. Challenge and be challenged  
We encourage our associates to question the way things 
are done and to challenge themselves and others to do 
better every day. We believe that we only grow and learn 
by interacting with each other.
3. Co-create your ideas  
We must work as a team to reach our desired goal of 
innovation. If a team member has an idea, they should 
share it and then make it happen.4. Build your own path  
There is no single track for personal, professional and 
company growth. Our associates are encouraged to 
chart their own route and make challenging choices that 
will push them out of their comfort zone.
5. Grow with us  
There are many opportunities for growth.  Our associa -
tes are motivated to try and go further and as part of an 
ethical, transparent and prosperous company.
 
6. Take pride in what you do  
We are part of sustainable solutions that improve pe-
ople's quality of life and help develop the communities 
where we operate.
7. Be free to be you  
Our key values include unconditional respect for indivi -
duals and diversity. We value each associate and encou -
rage them to be who they are, providing equal opportu -
nities for all.
BRASKEM
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
09Since our company was founded in 2002, we have been 
committed to aligning the interests and expectations of 
all stakeholders within our business through the ethical, 
responsible and transparent behavior of all Braskem 
associates and governance bodies aiming to ensure we 
generate value in the short, medium and long term.Corporate Governance
GRI 102-18BRASKEM
MAIN  shareholders
Our main shareholders are Novonor 
(formerly Odebrecht), which is the 
majority shareholder, with 50.1% of the 
voting capital shares, and Petrobrás, 
which holds 47% of the voting capital 
shares. The remaining 2.9% are distribu -
ted on the stock market or in treasury. 
The company has a free float of 25.5% 
of total capital, which provides liquidi -
ty for shareholders who wish to trade 
their shares in B3. Learn more about 
Braskem's corporate structure and 
shareholding structure on our Investors 
website. Access here .Governance structure
GRI 102-18
The highest governance body is the Board of Directors, 
which ended 2020 with its largest number (11 mem -
bers, including a president and a vice-president), four 
of whom are independent members. Our Governance 
structure is also composed of a Statutory Executive 
Board a Fiscal Council, besides Board of Directors sup -
portive committes, including the Compliance Commit -
tee, which is forseen in the Company's Bylaws and is 
composed by 3 independent members. Access here  to 
learn more about the structure and attributions of each 
body, its regulations, training, members and their curric -
ulum vitae and get to know more about our governance 
structure. The set of policies  approved by our Board is 
also available online. GRI 102-19, 102-20, 102-22, 102-23, 102-
24, 102-25, 102-26, 102-27, 102-28
 
 
To learn more about our governance and compliance 
management, visit:   
Governance and Compliance Policies.To this end, we follow the Brazilian Corporate Gover -
nance Code (CBGC), seeking to acomplish with best 
practices in the field: we are listed in the Level 1 cor -
porate segment at B3, also meeting some practices of 
Level 2 and Novo Mercado segments. as 100% tag along 
for all shareholders in the event of a transfer of control. 
Our bylaws also require that at least 20% of the mem -
bers of the Board of Directors be independent directors. 
See the stock exchanges where Braskem is listed and 
learn more about our Corporate Governance  practices.
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
10We uphold high standards in Internal Controls, Risk Manage-
ment, Internal Audit and Compliance and we have an Integ -
rity Program aimed at preventing, detecting and remedying 
possible deviations. We continuously perform inter-area 
risk assessments and carry out internal and external audits 
under SOX and ABAC (Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption) 
rules: 100% of our Braskem operations were subjected to 
corruption-related risk assessments. GRI 205-1
Over the course of 2020, we adopted several socioeco -
nomic compliance initiatives, including:
•  Conclusion of the external and independent moni -
torship, after recognition of the effectiveness of the 
compliance program
•  Publication of follow-up reports on Braskem's Integrity 
Program, submitted to the Transparency and Cor -
ruption Prevention Secretariat (STPC) of the Federal 
Comptroller General (CGU);Ethics and Compliance
GRI 102-17, 103-2, 103-3 | 205, 206, 406, 415, 419BRASKEM
•  Started ISO 37001 certification process - Anti-Bribery 
Management System;
•  Compliance training;
•  Engagement in collective actions by institutions such 
as the ETHOS Institute, and the UN Global Compact, 
besides support to class associations.
We have a robust and modern compliance system to 
support our associates. This system is part of our Global 
Compliance System Policy which sets out guidelines, 
duties and responsibilities for associates and opera -
tions worldwide, and defines the governance instances 
responsible for their enforcement. 
Thus, our compliance practices are based on a set of 
measures to prevent, detect and remedy risks. Along 
these lines, 100% of the members of the governance 
bodies were notified and more than 93% received train -
ing on anti-corruption policies and procedures. Our Compliance System applies to all associates, activ -
ities and operations, and must be systematically mon -
itored and enforced by the Board of Directors. We put 
in place a series of initiatives and tools to enhance our 
ethical commitment. Some key resources:  
• Code of Conduct
•  Governance and Compliance Policies   
that stablished the Ethics Line Channel
• Global Anti-Corruption Policy  GRI 205-1
Find out more about the members 
who also received training in the 
GRI Annex. GRI 205-2To learn more, 
click here .
Our compliance practices are 
based on a set of measures to 
prevent, detect and remedy risksPERSONAL  Data   
Protection  Program
We consolidated the Personal Data Protec -
tion program establishing the Privacy Com -
mittee, strengthening our service channel, 
ensuring data from participants, suppliers 
and customers is processed on an adequate 
legal basis and following the principles esta -
blished in Braskem's Privacy Policy; we also 
reinforced our standards in critical areas 
responsible for processing personal data.
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
11CONCLUSION OF   
independent monitorship GRI 205-1
In 2020, after a three-year independent monitorship 
program, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office (MPF), 
the Department of Justice (DoJ) and capital market 
regulatory agency SEC confirmed that our compliance 
program fulfills all obligations defined in the agree -
ments with the corresponding authorities.
The authorities relied on the final report presented 
by the independent monitors, which confirmed that 
all recommendations related to the structure and 
operation of the compliance program were effecti -
vely implemented and that the program fully meets 
the standards established in the agreements. The 
Prosecutor's Office (MPF) probed the program tho -
roughly and found that our compliance program was 
efficient; it will in fact serve as a model for other 
leniency agreements to be signed in the country. Ha -
ving proven our firm commitment to ethics we have 
now successfully concluded the monitoring period 
established in the agreements.
Over the course of the independent monitorship au -
dit, we have established even stricter anti-corruption 
control policies, putting in place mechanisms to ensure 
integrity and providing training on compliance issues. 
For more information, visit this link .Free competition
 
We have internal and regulatory policies 
that address this topic, such as the Free 
Competition Policy, the Policy on Relationship 
with Trade Associations and Class Entities 
and the Investment and Divestment Policy. In 
2020, we conducted competitive training in 
Brazil, Europe and the United States, including 
sessions for the Board of Directors. We 
also prepared the Competition Booklet for 
Members of the Commercial Areas in Brazil, 
describing how we monitor and assess unfair 
competition.BRASKEM
We have a sophisticated 
Integrity Program that aims to 
detect and address possible 
deviations in conduct
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
12The body of knowledge (patents, technologies, systems, 
platforms, brands and copyrights) that allows us to 
innovate and seek the technological development of more 
competitive and sustainable products and processes.INTELLECTUAL
We transform our main raw materials (naphtha, 
ethane, propane, propylene, ethanol), as well as water 
and electricity, supporting and cooperating with our 
customer chain to offer solutions for an increasingly 
sustainable society.NATURAL
The fixed assets (industrial units, pilot plants, innovation 
and technology centers, technical laboratories, logistics 
warehouses, train cars and cargo terminals) we deploy 
in the development, production and distribution of our 
products.MANUFACTURED
The bonds of trust with our stakeholders that allow 
us to conduct our business, expanding our positive 
socio-environmental impact and contributing to the 
sustainable development of the communities where we 
operate.SOCIAL AND  
RELATIONSHIP
Cash generated by our operations, bank loans and 
financing, and funds raised in the capital market used 
to finance our business.FINANCIALThese are the diverse, multicultural and skilled people who run our business in a more 
inclusive and humane manner; who are committed to abiding by the applicable laws 
and industry norms on health and safety; who embrace the spirit of integrity and 
see ethical behavior as a competitive advantage; who do the right thing out of their 
personal conviction.HUMANBRASKEM
CAPITAL
Business Model
We are a global, human-centered, future-oriented 
petrochemical company that uses valuable cap -
ital to produce an ample and diversified portfolio 
of chemical and plastic products transformed by 
our clients and applications that meet daily human 
needs and improve people’s lives.
Firmly anchored in our strategy and culture, our 
business model creates and distributes value among 
all our stakeholders, in the short, medium and long 
term, maintaining the financial health of the com -
pany and its investments.
Always aware of trends, risks, innovations and op -
portunities, we have incorporated the circular econ -
omy into our business strategy, aiming to contribute 
to the proper disposal of plastic waste generated by 
society. This new business model was consolidated 
in 2020 with the launch of the I'm green ™ portfolio, 
which now includes Braskem solutions for a circu -
lar carbon neutral economy, including recycled and 
renewable origin products.
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
13BRASKEM
Team members
Interns
Third parties
Board members• Diversity
• Multiculturalism
• Competences
• Ethics and Compliance
• Patents
• Technologies
• Systems
• Platforms • Brands
• Copyrights
• Processes
• Bonds of trust with  
our stakeholders•  Naphtha
• Ethane
• Propane
• Propylene• Etanol
• Plastic waste
• Water
• Electricity
• Industrial Units
• Pilot plants
• Innovation and 
technology centers• Technical laboratories
• Logistic warehouses
• Train cars
• Cargo terminals
• Cash generated by our operations
• Bank loans and financing
• Funds raised in the capital marketResearchers
Tech partners
Consultants
Universities
Research centers
Suppliers
Government
Non-governmental organizations
Surrounding communities
Opinion leaders
End users
Surrounding communities
Government
Non-governmental organizations
Peer companies
Class associations
Opinion leaders
Suppliers
Services providers
Clients
Shareholders
Financial institutions
Governments
Debt investors
Rating agenciesOUTCOMES OUTPUTS
• PROFESSIONAL AND PERSONAL 
ACHIEVEMENT
• TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT
• DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION
• CLEAN TECHNOLOGIES
• ECO-EFFICIENT PRODUCTS
• OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY
• EFFICIENCY OF INSTALLED CAPACITIES
• EXTENDED USEFUL LIFE
• DISCIPLINE IN CAPITAL ALLOCATION
• DISTRIBUTION OF ADDED VALUE• WATER CONSUMPTION
• WATER REUSE
• ENERGY CONSUMPTION
• CLEAN ENERGY
• ENERGY EFFICIENCY
• CO₂ EMISSION
• COMMUNITY  
WELL-BEING
• TRANSPARENT 
RELATIONS WITH 
GOVERNMENT
• FREE COMPETITION
• CLASS AGREEMENTS• EMISSION OF POLLUTANTS
• WASTE GENERATION
• EFFLUENT GENERATION
• CO₂ CAPTURE
• RECYCLING
• DIALOGUE WITH 
SOCIETY
•  CUSTOMER LOYALTY
•  REPUTATION
• RELATIONSHIPS WITH 
SUPPLIERS
Portfolio of 
innovative and 
sustainable 
chemical and 
plastic products 
transformed by 
our customers into 
applications that 
meet daily human 
needs and improve 
people's livesINPUTS STAKEHOLDERS
INTELLECTUAL
NATURAL
MANUFACTUREDSOCIAL AND  
RELATIONSHIP
FINANCIALHUMAN
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
14Highlights 2020
•  Action in the pandemic: R$ 1 billion credit line 
for plastics, solvents and specialty chains clien -
tes in Brazil.  
•  During the pandemic,  we made more than 
80 donations: more than 40 million masks 
and face-shields produced with our resins, 1.2 
million packages for gel alcohol, 800 thou -
sand aprons and lab coats for frontline health 
professionals and support for the construc -
tion of a field hospital in Alagoas.
•  Social action during pandemic: R$11 million 
donated globally. 
ALL CAPITAL
•  Approval of the Global 
Sustainable Development 
Strategy focusing on a circular 
carbon neutral economy.•  Maceio case: approximately R$ 409 million 
paid in financial compensation and other 
temporary aids to families. 
•  Global Volunteer Program  mobilized 1,070 
volunteers, benefiting about 21,000 people 
even during the pandemic. 
•  Our Reputation improved  in comparison to 
2019, especially among our team members, 
where it showed a record increase.
•  R$ 32.7 million invested in 137 social initiatives 
(usual donations, pandemic-specific dona -
tions, Private Social Investments (ISPs) and 
volunteering) and more than 236,000 people 
impacted directly.
•  Commitment:  15% reduction in emissions by 
2030 and becoming carbon neutral by 2050.
•  Expansion of the I'm green ™ portfolio: reach 
300,000 tons of thermoplastic resins and 
chemicals with recycled content by 2025 and 1 
million tons by 2030.
• 10 years of Green PE, recognized by ECLAC 
(UN) and Chemical Week.
•  Partnerships to expand the use of renewable 
energy with solar and wind farms in Bahia, Rio 
Grande do Norte and Minas Gerais.FINANCIAL CAPITAL
• R$ 58.5 billion  Net Revenue.
•  R$ 11 billion recurring Operating  
Income.
•  R$ 1.3 billion Net Cash Generation.
•  R$ 600 million subordinated bonds 
issued, with 50% equity treatment by 
Standard & Poor's and Fitch Ratings.
• 2.94x corporate leverage ratio. 
•  Signatory of the CFO Principles  
of the United Nations Global Compact.
•  284%  increase in global sales of recy -
cled materials (resins and chemicals), 
reaching 9,000 tons sold.
•  Start of operations  of the Delta Proj -
ect plant, in La Porte, Texas, making 
Braskem the largest producer of poly -
propylene in the United States.
•  Partnership with Valoren:  R$ 67 million 
investment in the new recycling line and 
expansion of the post-consumer resin 
portfolio in Indaiatuba (SP).•  Enhanced technology  for the production of renew -
able PET (green MEG), with the first production of 
renewable MEG on a demonstration scale.
•  20 startups accelerated through Braskem Labs.
•  Launched in the Americas a new portfolio of prod -
ucts for 3D printing as polypropylene (PP) filaments, 
powders and pellets.
•  Participation in the 100 Open Corps innovation rank -
ing of companies that have the greatest engagement 
with startups in Brazil.
•  Pipeline of digital transformation projects  set to 
capture up to R$ 665 million per year.
•  69% of team members participated in the well-being 
thermometer survey, used to design action plans for 
social distancing.
•  Flexible workplace  with home office, review of shifts, 
purchase of personal protective equipment and ac -
tions to provide emotional and psychological support 
during the pandemic.
•  Selection of interns adapted  to ensure a more inclu -
sive process, with 38% of the job openings filled by 
black candidates.
•  Reached 30% of women team members in leadership 
positions.MANUFACTURED CAPITAL HUMAN CAPITAL NATURAL CAPITALINTELLECTUAL CAPITAL SOCIAL CAPITALBRASKEM
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
15In 2020, we won important awards on sustainability, 
diversity, governance and innovation, recognizing our 
commitment to best market practices.  
 
INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL
•  100 Open Corps: for the third consecutive year, we are 
ranked among the international 100 Open Corps, and 
recognized as one of the companies that most engage 
with startups in Brazil. The ranking analyzed more than 
1,600 companies to draw up the list of leaders in open 
innovation in Brazil.
•  United Nations : our production of I'm green ™ 
biobased polyethylene, plastic from renewable sources 
made from sugarcane, has been recognized by the UN 
Economic Commission for Latin America and the Ca -
ribbean (ECLAC) and by the UN Global Pact Brazil Net -
work as one of the most transformative innovations 
in sustainable development in Brazil, in the Industry & 
Energy category.
    HUMAN CAPITAL
•  11th CIEE Best Internship Programs Award: we were 
recognized as the third best company for interns, 
according to CIEE (Company-School Integration Cen -
ter). This classification was based on a survey with our 
interns on important aspects of the program, such as 
career prospects, development and satisfaction.
•  Exame Diversity Guide:  for the second time in a 
row we were recognized as the best company in the 
Chemical and Petrochemical industry for diversity 
promotion practices. We obtained above-average 
grades in all categories, which include gender, people 
with disabilities, ethnic-racial and LGBTI +. The award 
is one of the results of our Diversity & Inclusion Pro -
gram, which aims to promote a discrimination-free 
work environment.
•  Bloomberg Gender Equality Index:  Braskem was 
selected by this index that considers company actions 
to foster women leaders and talents, promoting equal 
pay and inclusion. The indicator assesses and recog -
nizes companies for successful gender initiatives. In 
all, 380 companies from 44 different countries are 
featured in the index, of which only nine are Brazilian.•  Compliance on Top 2020: executives from our team 
were awarded at Compliance on Top 2020, a major 
Brazilian event in the area. Our Chief Compliance Of -
ficer, Everson Bassinello, and the Compliance Leader 
for South America, Akira Ano Junior, made the list of 
the 30 most admired compliance professionals.
•  Ethical Company (Braskem Idesa): Braskem Idesa was 
recognized by Amitai and Fortune Magazine as one of 
the “Most Ethical Companies 2020” in Mexico.
Awards & RecognitionBRASKEM
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
16  NATURAL CAPITAL
•  CDP: we are the leader in three 2020 rankings: Water 
Management, Climate Change and Supplier Engage -
ment (Climate and Water). For the fourth consecutive 
time, we made A List, the highest ranking in Water 
Management, and we were leaders in Climate Change 
Management for the sixth consecutive time (-A). For 
the fifth consecutive time, we were featured among 
leaders in Supplier Engagement (Climate and Water), 
and in 2020 we reached the maximum score A List. 
•  Chemical Week: we won the first edition of the Sus -
tainability Award from the Financial Week & Sus -
tainability Forum promoted by Chemical Week USA. 
The award Best Sustainable Initiative went to our I'm 
green™ portfolio of products for the circular economy.
•  Carbon Efficient Index (ICO2): since 2011*, we have been 
part of the B3 Carbon Efficient Index portfolio, underscor -
ing our commitment to transparency regarding emissions.  
    MANUFACTURED CAPITAL
•  ABRE 2020 Award: we won the 20th edition of the 
ABRE Brazilian Packaging Award in the Popular Vote 
category, for the packaging of the Always Free absor -
bent made with post-consumer resin. The product is 
part of the I'm green™ line and was produced in part -
nership with Johnson & Johnson and Mega Embala -
gens, using 33% post-consumer resin and reducing 
carbon emissions by 10.25%.
•  Plástico Sul Award 2020: we received awards in two 
categories of the first edition of the South Plastic Award 
for Innovation and Sustainability. This award is granted to 
innovative solutions for the environment.  Our Reverse 
Logistics Project for Bags and Big Bags was selected in the 
Sustainability category and the Always Free Packaging pro -
duced with post-consumer resin won the Innovation award 
in the Film Extrusion category.
   FINANCIAL CAPITAL
•  Sustainability Yearbook:  for the seventh consecutive 
time, we were featured in the Sustainability Yearbook 
for our environmental sustainability policies. At least 
7,000 companies in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index 
were analyzed for this ranking, which is considered a 
reference for investors.•  Corporate Governance Stock Trade Index (IGCT): we 
were again included in the IGCT portfolio of publicly 
held companies with differentiated corporate gov -
ernance practices, with additional criteria to the IGC 
(Differentiated Corporate Governance Stock Index).*with the exception of some quarters in which we did not integrate the 
portfolio due to the liquidity criterion during this period. BRASKEM
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
17Our strategic vision features six fundamental pillars as 
we continue building a global company that is recog -
nized as a leader in increasingly innovative and sustain -
able chemical and plastic solutions, focused on human 
beings and positive results for all stakeholders. The 
innovation pillar is seen as a cross-organization enabler 
for the ambitions of other pillars.
Sustainability was included as our sixth strategic pillar at 
the end of 2020 to help us monitor the implementation 
of projects, partnerships and investments in light of our 
commitment to the 2030 sustainable development goals, 
in response to current and future challenges for the planet 
and society.  Risk Management
   Challenges of the COVID-19  
pandemic
  Focus on Sustainable DevelopmentStrategic   
PlanningSTRATEGIC PLANNING
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
18Strategic PillarsSTRATEGIC PLANNING
Pilares Objective Actions in 2020 Priorities 2021 Aggregate capital
1.  Productivity  
and 
competitiveness
Innovation 
enables all 
pillars•  Braskem as a first  
quartile operator• Best security performance in the past three years
• Renewal of raw material contracts with Petrobras for 
petrochemical complexes in Brazil
• Increased energy efficiency thanks to Digital Center tools
• Implementation of the "Transform for Value" Program•  Increase reliability and efficiency 
of industrial operations
•  Ensure competitive supply of 
ethane to Braskem Idesa
Increase 
efficiency in 
innovation  
and accelerate 
digital 
transformationManufactured 
Capital
Human Capital
Intellectual  
Capital
2. Sustainability1•  Reference in the global 
chemical and petrochemi-
cal sector for its sustainable 
development• Launched commitments for 2030 and 2050
•  Signed long-term agreements for the purchase of  
renewable energy 
•  Advanced in partnerships for mechanical and  
chemical recycling
• Expanded production and commercialization of Green PE
• Expanded sales of products with recycled content •  Advanced in the implementation 
of ESG commitments
•  Intensified energy matrix diver -
sification, especially in renewable 
energy and alternative fuels Manufactured 
Capital
Natural Capital
Social and  
Relationship  
Capital
3.  Diversification•  Increased diversification in 
raw materials, markets and 
products, with new ope-
rations representing more 
than 50% of EBITDA•  Started commercial production of the new PP plant  
in the U.S.
• Accelerated the project to import ethane in Mexico
•  40% of the resin production capacity is now located 
outside Brazil
•  Reduced dependence on naphtha as a raw material, 
reinforcing leadership in PP in Brazil and in the Americas•  Structure new growth models 
and reduce risks with cooperati-
ve models
•  Expand product portfolio aligned 
with business strategyManufactured 
Capital
4.  People, 
innovation, 
governance and 
reputation•  Be recognized as a com-
pany that promotes local 
development and human 
rights•  Significant progress in the financial compensation 
program and support for the relocation of impacted 
families
•  Diversity and Inclusion in the Internship Program
•  Conclusion of external monitorship and certification of 
the Compliance Program •  Advance with the Financial 
Compensation and Relocation 
Program in Alagoas
•  Strengthen Braskem's image 
among team members, custo-
mers, suppliers, investors and 
society in generalHuman Capital
Social and  
Relationship  
Capital
5.  Capital 
allocation/ 
financial rigidity•  Braskem as a financially he-
althy company that creates 
shareholder value• Significant reduction in corporate leverage
•  Positive cash generation, with strong operating results
•  Robust financial liquidity, with mostly long-term debt•  Reduce leverage and preserve 
financial healthFinancial Capital
Safe action is a permanent focus for Braskem operations: it is a non-negotiable value within our strategy
¹ The Sustainability pillar was included in our corporate strategy in 2021. Nonetheless, we already made several advances in this regard over the course of 2020, in particular regarding socio-environmental commitments for 2030 and 2050.
**Intellectual Capital is a cross-organization resource for all strategic pillars.
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
19STRATEGIC PLANNING
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
20
Risk Management
GRI 102-15, 103-2, 103-3 | 307, 412
Risk assessment is an essential process at Braskem: it 
points to opportunities and reduces negative impacts 
as we strive to achieve our strategic objectives. Our risk 
management methodology is based on international 
references.
We classify risks into four categories - strategic, oper -
ational, financial and regulatory - based on a corporate 
Risk Dictionary. Risks are periodically evaluated by the 
company's executives and undergo a Regional and Global 
consolidation process, that considers their probability and 
potential impact. The result of this analysis is presented 
graphically on a Heat Map of priorities that is assessed 
and approved by the Board of Directors. Once approved, 
priority risks are addressed and monitored for mitigation 
and preparedness to deal with their possible adverse 
effects.
In 2020, we continued to implement measures for the 
prevention and mitigation of the risks assessed as pri -
orities and integrated into the Corporate Risks matrix. In 
line with our commitment to promoting best practices, 
we highlight here some risks that are being addressed and 
monitored by management:Risk Risk Description Potential Impacts Responses
Image
of PlasticThe growing global concern for the environment and 
growing trend to ban single-use plastic• Difficulties in adapting our produc -
tion processes in time, leading to 
insufficient recycling levels, inability 
to meet demand and consequent 
loss of market share, with adver -
se impact on company image and 
reputation Since 2018, we have openly supported the “Circular 
Economy” (reutilization and reuse of resources), with 
the following mitigation efforts:
1.  Develop value chain, design of products and their 
applications
2. Engage with consumers
3.  Assess life cycle and recycling rates to identify more 
sustainable options
4.  Engage in partnerships to avoid plastic waste in the 
oceans 
Climate  
changePopulations are showing increasing concern for the en-
vironment, and governments are aligning with the Paris 
Agreement through public policies that encourage the 
reduction of greenhouse gas emissions• Stressed natural resources used 
in our production, such as water 
and stricter limits for emissions of 
carbon dioxide and equivalentsOur Climate Adaptation and Mitigation Plan seeks to 
continually increase the safety of industrial activi-
ties in response to extreme weather events and to 
mitigate the adverse impacts of our operations on 
the climate. In 2020 we announced our ambition 
to reduce GHG emissions by 15% by 2030 and to 
become carbon neutral by 2050, in line with the Paris 
Agreement. 
See more details in Water Security  and Carbon Neu-
tral discussions.
Sector CyclicityHistorically, international petrochemical products 
markets have had periods of limited supply leading to 
higher prices and profit margins followed by an ex -
pansion in production capacity resulting in excess su-
pply, shrinking prices and slimmer profit margins. Our 
net sales revenue and gross margin are increasingly 
influenced by global industry conditions over which 
we have no control, and which may impact Braskem 
operating results and financial situation• Difficulties in adapting the business 
to petrochemical market volatility 
as we develop our corporate stra-
tegies may lead to financial losses 
and/or impair our competitiveness: 
this remains a key concern for 
Braskem Several actions based on three pillars help us mitigate 
the risks associated with downturns:
1.  Diversification of raw materials with a focus on 
sustainability
2. Diversification of suppliers
3. Geographic diversification 
Social and  
Environmental  
IssuesOur company and operations are inherently exposed 
to environmental, health and safety hazards. As a 
result, our business is subject to strict environmental 
regulations, among others• Despite our environmental, health 
and safety standards, policies and 
controls, our operations remain  
subject to incidents or accidents 
that may adversely affect our 
business or reputation and result 
in significant environmental and 
social impactsWe continuously assess the potential impacts of our 
industrial operations and monitor potential scenarios 
that may affect the environment and surrounding 
communities together with our Board of Directors
* See other risks factors in Form 20F 2020, Annual ReportsTransform for Value
Striving for constant evolution, we created in February 
2020 the Transform for Value Program, aiming to coor -
dinate, accelerate and foster agility and flexibility among 
our areas and flows, especially through process improve-
ment. The program has four key objectives:
•  Consolidate visions  and centralize initiatives to im -
prove company processes, monitoring investments 
and results.
•  Prioritize resources,  understanding that they can be 
shifted or reinvested to maximize returns.
•  Drive the implementation  of key value-generating 
initiatives.
•  Improve the way we communicate our decisions and 
investments, so that all company members and the 
communities where we operate can understand our 
intentions and follow our progress.This global program is focused on identifying initiatives 
that can bring visible gains by the end of 2023. We will use 
phases or stages to better measure, manage and com -
municate our progress in each initiative.
In its first year, the TFV Program implemented six 
initiatives currently in stages four (ramp-up) and five 
(completed), with estimated savings of US$ 55 million/
year.* The goal for 2021 is to have 20 initiatives in stag -
es 4 and 5, with estimated savings of approximately 
US$ 160 million/year.
For more information, ac -
cess our 2020 Management 
Report: Annual Reports .* Values related to initiatives in stage 4 (ramp-up), in which the values are 
recorded when realized and stage 5 (completed), after stabilization and/
or internal audit, according to the Transform for Value methodology for 
monitoring the maturity of program initiatives.STRATEGIC PLANNING
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
21Braskem actions
 
In 2020, we signed agreements and amendments with 
the competent authorities to support the evacuation and 
compensation of local residents and property owners in 
the areas at risk and to protect and monitor the affected 
neighborhoods through our Financial Compensation and 
Relocation Support Program (PCF). This Program is based 
on the map of risk areas of the Civil Defense of Maceió, 
published in december 2020 and independent technical 
studies contracted by the company.
By the end of 2020, we had relocated about 9,200 
families and made about 3,500 compensation propos -
als, with an acceptance rate of 99.7%. This enabled us 
to meet the 100% vacancy requirement in the priority 
areas established by the agreement. The evacuation of 
the remaining areas in still in progress, until we finish 
relocating around 15,000 families covered by the pro -
gram. Additional measures were implemented, such as 
the Local Resident Central providing services for inhabi -
tants, and Animal Shelter Program.
We also made progress with the Salt Well Closure and 
Monitoring Plan, with ongoing actions related to wells 
under the recommended measures approved by Na -
tional Mining Agency (ANM) and other urban structure 
measures such as demolition, security and janitorial ser -
vices in the vacated areas. In 2020, we made significant 
progress in installing equipment to monitor salt wells and surrounding neighborhoods, and we also began to 
fill the first salt well with solid material.
Finally, we signed the Second Amendment to the 
Residents' Compensation Agreement and the So -
cio-Environmental Reparations Agreement with the 
competent authorities in December 2020. Under the 
additional provisions, the Company undertakes to: 
adopt the necessary measures for the stabilization 
of the wells monitoring of the soil; repair, mitigate or 
compensate for potential environmental impacts and 
damages resulting from rock salt mining in the city of 
Maceió; and repair, mitigate or compensate for po -
tential socio-urban impacts and damages resulting 
from rock salt mining in the city of Maceió, allocating 
the total amount of R$ 1,280 million to the adoption of 
actions and measures in the evacuated areas as well 
as actions and measures aimed at urban mobility and 
social compensation. Yet, within the agreement with 
Federal Prosecutor Officer, we will destine the adicional 
amount of R$ 300 million to idemnify collective social 
and moral damages and eventual contingencies relat -
ed to acitions in the vacated areas and urban mobility 
actions.
Both agreements made it possible to extinguish public 
civil actions against Braskem.Maceió Case
GRI 103-2, 103-3 | 307, 413-2
Regarding the geological phenomenon in Maceió, we re-
affirm our commitment to the safety and well-being of 
the communities, focusing on Braskem's full support to 
the affected families and on the technical assessment 
of the situation. For more information on the history of 
events and our performance, follow this link . 
Understanding the events
In March 2018, there was a 2.4-degree earthquake on 
the Richter scale in certain neighborhoods in Maceió 
(AL), impacting the 35 rock salt wells we had explored 
there for at least 40 years. The salt wells belonged 
to Salgema, one of many companies incorporated 
into Braskem when it was founded in 2002.As a 
consequence of the earthquake, cracks appeared 
in buildings and streets. Soon after the event, we 
requested studies from independent specialized 
institutions to identify the causes of the geological 
phenomenon and indicate measures to be taken. 
We shut down the rock salt mining operation and 
cooperated with the necessary actions to evacuate risk 
areas and ensure the safety of the local population.STRATEGIC PLANNING
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
22VINYL OPERATION
During the chlorine-soda unit shutdown, we imported 
caustic soda and dichloroethane (EDC) to honor our 
commitments to customers. In order to resume our 
chlorine-soda operation, we focused on the acquisition 
of sea salt from third parties to be used as raw material 
for the chlorine-soda plant in Alagoas, replacing brine. 
The estimated cost of this acquisition project is approx -
imately R$ 68 million, out of which R$ 64 million was 
spent in 2020. We announced plant start-up in February 
2021. After completing the commissioning process ob -
serving all applicable safety standards, we resumed pro -
duction of chlorine-soda and EDC at the chlorine-soda 
plant in Alagoas, going back to our integrated vertical 
business model in Vinyl.FINANCIAL IMPACT
Considering the agreements signed, our internal eval -
uation and assessment by external consultants, and 
taking into account the short-and long-term effects 
of the technical studies, the existing information 
and the best estimate of the expenses for the im -
plementation of the various measures related to the 
geological event in Alagoas, we closed the year with 
approximately R$ 9.2 billion provisioned to comply 
with the obligations resulting from the agreements, 
in contrast with the R$ 3.4 billion provisioned in 2019. 
Over the course of 2020, approximately R$ 1.2 billion 
was spent on PCF-related expenses, on the closure 
and monitoring of wells and social/urban measures, 
among other expenses. Approximately R$ 409 million 
out of the total was written off from the current ac -
count balance intended only for the fulfillment of PCF 
obligations.
Additionally, within the Residents' Compensa -
tion Agreement, the Company, DPE, MPF, MPE and 
DPU agreed to transfer an additional R$ 1 billion to 
Braskem's bank account specifically for PCF Fund -
ing in 10 monthly installments of R$ 100 million each, 
starting in January 2021. As of May
5, 2021, the Company had made four deposits of 
R$100 million each, with the other six remaining de -
posits scheduled for the subsequent months.We ended 2020 with a provision 
of R$ 9.2 billion to fulfill the 
commitments arising from the 
Maceió case
STRATEGIC PLANNING
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
23Our actions are based on technical studies carried 
out by independent specialists and comply with the 
recommendations submitted to competent authori -
ties. The Company is implementing the actions so far 
approved by the ANM.
The plans for closure of the wells submitted to ANM 
were prepared considering the best knowledge corpus 
available to Braskem specialists regarding appropriate 
measures to stabilize the geological phenomenon in 
the region. The plans will be monitored over time and 
may be adjusted according to the results obtained. 
Continuous monitoring is crucial to confirm the 
outcome of the current recommendations. In addi -
tion, the completion of studies to confirm the natural 
filling of some cavities and sonar monitoring of cavity 
behavior may in the future indicate the need for addi -
tional stabilization measures.Our provisions are based on current estimates and 
assumptions and may undergo future updates due 
to new facts and circumstances, including changes 
in the execution time and extension, effectiveness 
of action plans and completion of current and future 
studies with new recommendations from experts and 
other new developments.  Braskem still faces and we 
may come to face several individual lawsuits filed by 
individuals or legal entities that are not served by the 
PCF or that disagree with the individual proposals for 
agreement, in addition to potential claims by public 
service concessionaires.
As for the measures related to the mine closure plan, 
they are subject to AMN analysis and approval, mon -
itoring of the results of the ongoing measures, as 
well as changes related to the dynamics of geological 
events. The Company is implementing the actions so 
far approved by the ANM.
Under the Socio-Environmental Reparations Agree-
ment, the actions to repair, mitigate or compensate 
for potential environmental impacts and damages to 
be financed by Braskem will be defined after the con -
clusion of the Environmental Diagnosis to be carried 
out by a specialized and independent company. At the 
present time, we cannot predict the outcome of these 
Environmental Diagnostic studies or their potential 
implication in disbursements in addition to the ex -
penses already provisioned by the Company. In addi -
tion, the Socio-Environmental Reparations Agreement provides for the eventual adhesion of other entities, 
including the municipality of Maceió, which will be the 
subject of continued negotiations over the next few 
months. To date, we have not been able to predict the 
results of such negotiations or any associated costs. 
Thus, the Company cannot rule out future develop -
ments related to the topic or its associated expens -
es, and the costs to be incurred by Braskem may be 
different from its estimates.  
We are in discussions with insurers about the coverage 
of their insurance policies. The payment of indemnities 
will depend on the technical evaluation of the insur -
ance coverage of these policies, given the complexity 
of the matter. Accordingly, no indemnity was recog -
nized in Braskem's financial statements.
For other details on the signed 
agreements, please access our 
2020 Financial Statements,  
note 26, by clicking here.IN 2020 we relocated
9,200 families   
from the neighborhoods affected by 
the phenomenon in Maceió - 100% of 
the priority areas have been vacated.STRATEGIC PLANNING
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
241.  We signed an agreement with the 
Public Defender's Office of Alagoas, 
the Public Defender's Office of the 
Federal Government, the Federal 
Prosecutor's Office and the Public 
Prosecutor's Office of Alagoas 
that establishes actions for the 
evacuation of the defined risk areas 
and the start of the Compensation 
and Support Program for the 
Relocation of affected residents. 
We have significantly advanced the 
implementation of the plan regarding 
residents and also regarding Large 
Equipment.
2.  Progress in area monitoring mea -
sures, mine closure plan started.3.  Amendments to the agreement 
signed with DPE, MPF, DPU and MPE 
based on the update of the Maceió 
Civil Defense Map, leading by the end 
of 2020 to the extinction of the ACP 
for indemnification of Residents.
4.  Agreement signed with MPF and MPE 
for the extinction of the Social and 
Environmental ACP.
5.  Agreement signed with MPT4 for the 
extinction of the Labor ACP. 
6.  The brick-and-mortar Resident 
Central was created and then 
migrated online due to COVID-19 
restrictions.1.  An earthquake is registered in some 
neighborhoods of Maceió.
2.  A local Crisis Committee is installed  
in Alagoas. 1.  Braskem commissions independent 
geological studies.
2.  Definitive closure of salt mining 
activities.
3.  Creation of a protection area 
based on a study by the Leipzig 
Geomechanics Institute (IFG) in 
Germany.
4.  Terms of cooperation are signed 
with City Hall to develop a number 
of joint actions.2018 2019 2020Timeline
We have alloted a total of R$ 
9.2 billion to compensation 
and security actions in the 
Maceió caseSTRATEGIC PLANNING
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
25Challenges of the COVID-19 
Pandemic
GRI 403-2
The coronavirus pandemic brought an unprecedented 
challenge for people and companies around the world. 
At Braskem, we focused on building a robust contingen -
cy plan to mitigate the effects of the pandemic while 
continuing to pursue our short-, medium- and long-
term objectives. This plan had three main fronts:
• Safety for people
• Support for our value chain 
• Reliability and resilience for our operations 
The plan enabled us to adapt to the new concept work -
ing safely and cooperatively ensuring fast response 
thanks to the engagement of our professionals in the 
new model. We soon resumed production and commer -
cial activities, providing support to the plastic chain and 
communities and ensuring our financial health during 
this challenging period.SAFETY FOR PEOPLE
To us, safety is a non-negotiable value. As the pandemic 
spread in the first months of 2020, different actions were 
taken to enforce social distancing at the company. Our 
existing remote work model called Flex Office enabled us 
to quickly implement home office for our employees. This 
made it possible for 100% of our office teams to work from 
their homes, reducing contacts and commutes.
Regional support programs helped associates transition 
into the new model.  In Brazil, online streaming events 
and courses provided assurance and support around 
five pillars: Mental Well-Being, Physical Well-Being, 
Social Well-Being, Support for Remote Work and Profes -
sional Improvement. Our 26 live events were attended 
by 6,000 team members - 40% of all associates - and 
reached a satisfaction rate of 96%. In addition, ergo -
nomic and technology kits were provided for associates 
in home office mode.We quickly adapted our routine to 
health protocols, ensuring participant 
safety and engagementSTRATEGIC PLANNING
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
26In Mexico, an exclusive website focused on associate 
well-being: “Sentirte Bien” provided relevant medical infor -
mation and psychological support over the phone. Employ -
ees migrating to home office mode received an allowance 
for the purchase of functional, ergonomic chairs.
Work on the plants observed strict health protocols rec -
ommended by health agencies in Brazil and worldwide to 
ensure a safe environment for employees and outsourced 
personnel. We kept people at risk in their homes, reduced 
our people in operations by 50%, revised shifts, imple-
mented social distancing actions and purchased personal 
protective equipment.
We were nominated for the CNN Heroes Award for an 
exemplary action by the members of Marcus Hook's poly -
propylene plant, 20 miles from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania: 
during the first months of the pandemic, with an exponen -
tial increase in the number of cases in the United States, 
the team pledged to remain isolated for 28 days at the 
factory to accelerate the production of polypropylene, the 
raw material used in the manufacture of N95 protective 
masks and other medical supplies.SUPPORT FOR THE VALUE CHAIN
In addition to preserving the health and reliability of 
our operations, we have also undertaken to support 
our stakeholders: we got together with our clients 
and with the communities where we operate to check 
which of our products could help fight the pandemic.
As part of the efforts, we granted R$ 1 billion in credit to 
solvent clients in Brazil. The loan could be used to pur -
chase plastic resins (PE, PP, PVC), caustic soda, solvents 
and chemical specialties. The credits were made avail -
able in a record 60 days, and were limited to R$ 600,000 
per client, with interest rates established as 100% of the 
CDI yield. This initiative preserved our production and 
the financial stability of our partners, while also ensuring 
that there was no disruption in the production of medi -
cal equipment for lack of raw materials.
Our Supplier Support Program featured two actions 
with great positive impact. A special fund of R$ 58.9 
million was used to advance payment of invoices for 
services performed, and another R$ 6.71 million was 
used to make partial advance payments to suppliers. The plastic CHAIN   
helps to fight COVID-19
Plastic plays a fundamental role in combating Covid. 
Braskem brought together a task force with its value chain 
to make donations possible in all locations where we operate.
More than 88 donations were made, with a total of more 
than 40 million masks and face-shields produced with our 
resins, besides 15 million disposable items such as packa -
ging, cutlery, glasses and garbage bags distributed in hospi -
tals and schools. Other health product donations included 
1.2 million packages for gel alcohol, 800 thousand aprons 
and lab coats for frontline professionals, 50 thousand hy -
giene kits, 16 thousand food baskets and 1 Field Hospital in 
Alagoas (Brazil).
.DONATIONS  GRI 203, 413
We work cooperatively to combat the pandemic, di -
viding our operations into two main fronts: supporting 
the communities surrounding our plants and sup -
porting the fight against the pandemic along with our 
value chain.
On the first front, we donated hygiene and cleaning 
products to 50,000 families living around our plants in STRATEGIC PLANNING
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
27Brazil, provided basic food baskets for 1,200 families 
that work in recycling cooperatives and we supported 
the government of Alagoas in the construction of the 
field hospital urgently needed to save lives during the 
pandemic. Also in Alagoas, in April, in partnership with 
the state government, we opened a screening center to 
assist patients with flu symptoms and thus help relieve 
public hospitals during the pandemic peaks.
The second action front focused on supporting society 
in general: we worked together with our chain to enable 
the production of masks, face shields and other hospi -
tal and sanitary products. The thermoplastic resin we 
donated helped produce at least 60 million masks and 
at least 1 million aprons, helping to ensure the safety of 
health professionals and workers fighting COVID-19. In 
Europe, we donated 150,000 mask strips to more than 
2,500 health institutes. Altogether, we implemented 88 
donation projects to combat COVID -19.RELIABILITY OF OPERATIONS
In terms of reliability of operations, the utilization rates 
of our plants in Brazil and the United States were tem -
porarily reduced responding to slack demand given 
the slumping world economy and initiatives to reduce 
inventories along the petrochemical production chain. 
Production planning considered stock levels along the 
value chain, scheduled maintenance shutdowns, pri -
ority products with greater demand in the pandemic 
and the allocation of co-products to specific markets 
and enabled us to honor our commitment to supply our 
customers with reliable operations, leveraging synergies 
between our global units to meet the needs of society.
CASH PRESERVATION
Aiming to protect our finances and the resilience of our 
business in a scenario of uncertainties, we adopted a 
series of measures to preserve our cash reserves. As a 
preventive measure, we withdrew US$ 1 billion from our 
Revolving Credit Facility in May 2020 so we could pro -
vide financial support to our chain during the economic 
contraction. We also committed to reducing invest -
ments and fixed costs, and optimized working capital 
with relevant suppliers. NORMALIZED OPERATIONS  
As lockdowns lifted in a number of countries and the global 
economy regained some strength, demand for chemicals 
and thermoplastic resins also recovered. Thus, the utili -
zation levels of our petrochemical hubs in Brazil and our 
industrial units in the USA returned to normal levels in June 
2020. Our global sales followed suit, with a quarterly record 
in Brazil in the third quarter. With operations and sales back 
to normal, we pre-paid our revolving credit facility in July 
2020.
Health and Safety remained a priority, and our members 
and third parties are still working from home and/or rotat -
ing shifts in certain cases until the COVID-19 transmission 
rates show considerable improvement, at which point we 
will follow the return plan defined by the company. 
Find out more about our actions 
against COVID-19 here .Resin donated by Braskem in 2020 
enabled the production of 60 million 
masks and 1 million apronsSTRATEGIC PLANNING
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
28Back in 2009 we launched 
our first 10 long-term social, 
environmental and economic 
goals for 2020. We met 85% 
of the objectives, especially 
regarding climate change. Focus on  
Sustainable  
Development
GRI 103-2, 103-3 | 305We achieved 85% of our 2009-2020 Macro Objectives
99
100
100
9475759484
94
3710. Strengthening of Practices 
To be recognized in Brazil and worldwide as 
a chemical company that contributes to 
sustainable development.
9. Solution Development
To be recognized as a company that sup -
ports clients in the development of environ -
mental and social solutions; to contribute 
to the perception of plastic as a solution for 
sustainable development with the potential 
to improve people's lives.
8. Local Development
To be recognized by surrounding communities 
and society in general for our contribution to 
human development, demonstrated by the 
achievement of the “excellent” reputation 
level in the Citizenship Dimension  
of RepTrakTM Pulse.
7. Energy Efficiency
To be among the best large chemical 
industries in the world in terms of energy 
consumption intensity and to be an important 
user of renewable energy.6.  Climate Change
To be among the best large chemical industries worldwide in 
greenhouse gas emissions and to be an important sequester of 
GHG emissions through the use of renewable raw materials.5.  Water Efficiency
To remain a reference in the use of water resources 
in the global chemical industry.3. Post-consumption 
To be recognized as an important agent that 
contributes to plastic recycling.
4.  Renewable Resources
To be recognized as a leader in the manufac -
ture of chemicals and thermoplastic resins from 
renewable raw materials and to remain the world's 
largest producer of thermoplastic resins from 
renewable sources.2.  Economic and Financial Results
To be among the three largest producers of thermoplastic 
resins worldwide and to ensure sufficient profitability to 
sustain business perpetuity while maintaining Investment 
Grade. More details in Growth strategy/Strategic 
objectives.1. Health and Safety
To be recognized as a global chemical industry reference in 
safety (chemical, work and process)STRATEGIC PLANNING
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
29NEW  challenges:  Circular  
Carbon Neutral  Economy
 
The year 2020 was the last in the period previously de -
fined for reaching our 10 sustainable development dimen -
sions, so we set out to identify new challenges for the next 
decade (2020 to 2030), aligning our targets with new glob -
al demands. The definition of new Macro Objectives was a 
lengthy, complex journey, involving more than 500 asso -
ciates and leaders worldwide. This process materialized in 
September 2020, when our Global Sustainable Develop -
ment Strategy was approved by the Board of Directors.
The approved strategy was based on a comprehensive 
analysis that covered global challenges and trends, the GRI 
Materiality Matrix, Risk Management analysis for our busi -
ness and our value chain, and also considered relevant issues 
for society. The new targets address all social, economic and 
environmental aspects of sustainable development and are 
aligned with the 17 Goals of the 2030 United Nations Agenda. 
Our priorities are the SDGs we can impact the most, and the 
commitments in the Paris Climate Change Agreement.
As a result, we organized our long-term actions around seven 
dimensions, focusing on the Circular Carbon Neutral Econo -
my, especially by combating climate change and eliminating 
plastic waste.
Read our manifesto to learn more about our new 
dimensions at Braskem. A more sustainable future today.STRATEGIC PLANNING
SUSTAINABLE  
INNOVATIONOUR NEW COMMITMENTS  
ARE SHARED IN SEVEN DIMENSIONS
HEALTH AND 
SAFETY
FINANCIAL  
AND ECONOMIC  
RESULTS
ELIMINATION  
OF PLASTIC WASTE
COMBATING  
CLIMATE CHANGE
OPERATING  
ECOEFFICIENCYSOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY  
AND HUMAN RIGHTS
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
301.  Expand our I’m green™ portfolio to 
include 300,000 tons of thermoplastic 
resins and chemical products with 
recycled content. 
2.  Be one of the best companies  
to work for.1.  Expand our I’m green™ portfolio 
to include 1 million tons of 
thermoplastic resins and chemical 
products with recycled content.  
2.  Prevent 1.5 million tons of plastic 
waste from being incinerated, 
taken to landfills or discarded in the 
environment.
3.  Reduce scope 1 and 2 greenhouse 
gas emissions by 15% from our 
baseline 2019 levels.by
2025by
2030Our goals and commitments 
1.  Achieve carbon neutrality.
2.  Deal with social, environmental and 
human rights, and diversity, equality 
and inclusion issues as they emerge 
in economic, social and governance 
situations, acting in an integrated and 
transparent manner.by
2050In line with our new commitments, we set targets for 2025, 
2030 and 2050, mainly in combating climate change and 
eliminating plastic waste.
STRATEGIC PLANNING
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
31Governance
A clear governance structure and our Global Sustain -
ability Development Committee will help us live up to 
our commitments and ensure agile, assertive processes. 
We created 10 work groups: seven of them are dedicat -
ed to the Macro Objectives and three are structuring 
groups focused respectively on Governance, Concepts 
& Tools and Communication. Each work group is typi -
cally headed by a company vice-president who receives 
direct support from an executive officer.GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY  
DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
Advisory Board
External members provide guidan -
ce and bring new insights into our 
strategy 
Transform for Value +
Sustainable Development
Provide support, flag opportunities 
and help mitigate risksGovernance
CommunicationConcepts  
& Tools
PMO
1. Health & safety3. Eliminate  
plastic waste6. Social  
responsibility  
and human rights2. Financial  
and economic results5. Operating  
ecoefficiency4. Combating  
climate change 7. Sustainable  
innovationSTRATEGIC PLANNING
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
32CIRCULAR ECONOMY STRATEGYCarbon neutral  
circular economy
GRI 103-2, 103-3 | 306
 
We see Plastic Waste and Climate Change issues as 
the main challenges for our business and value chain, 
and our Global Sustainable Development Strategy is 
designed to make us part of the solution for a car -
bon neutral circular economy. Read more about it in 
Natural Capital .
CIRCULAR ECONOMY
Plastic is present in most people’s daily lives and 
preserves the quality of products that come into 
our homes.  The plastic industry is responsible for 
millions of jobs, and companies in other industries 
also use plastic to reduce production costs and save 
energy in their own production and distribution 
processes.Despite such benefits, the production of plastic is also 
associated with significant environmental impacts.  We are 
keenly aware of our responsibility in this regard and have 
publicly committed to strengthening the circular economy.
The circular economy proposes a systemic approach to 
ensure continuous flow of resources, regenerating, retain -
ing or adding value while contributing to sustainable de-
velopment. This is the direction we will follow in all actions.
Our strategy for the transition to a circular economy is 
based on mechanical and chemical recycling solutions. 
We are partnering with the other players in our value 
chain to strengthen mechanical recycling and overcome 
technical and logistical barriers to ensure adequate 
volumes of high-quality recycled material. We are also 
working on enhanced technologies and solutions for 
chemical recycling.  The ultimate objective is to trans -
form plastic waste into chemical inputs, fuel or raw ma -
terial for the manufacturing of new plastic products.DESIGN  for Environment
Responding to society’s growing demands 
regarding sustainability and circularity 
entails much more than just using recycled 
materials.  We need to rethink products 
from scratch, from raw materials and inputs 
to final consumer experience. Braskem 
proposes combining our expertise in polymers 
and transformation processes with brand 
owner insights into consumer behaviors and 
desires. Working hand in hand, we can deliver 
an incredible experience with the lowest 
possible environmental impact.  Aiming for 
more sustainable and circular packaging, 
we have developed an environment-friendly 
design methodology that uses Product Life 
Cycle Analysis to identify environmental 
hotspots over time.  Once a gap is identified 
based on a scientific analysis, the next step 
is to explore the consumer’s world and 
journey to maximize product attractiveness 
and usability. The ideation to prototyping/
testing loop is repeated until we succeed 
in combining sustainability, circularity and 
consumer experience in a single product. 
This methodology is already being used in our 
Braskem Design ChallengePLASTIC 
WASTE
Mechanical 
Recycling 1
Chemical 
Recycling2
Projects3
Continue to advance in its mechan -
ical and chemical recycling projects.Support projects to 
avoid plastic waste.Mechanical and chemical 
recycling solutions guide our 
transition towards a circular 
economySTRATEGIC PLANNING
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
33CARBON NEUTRAL GRI 103-2, 103-3 | 305
Climate change is one of the most urgent and import -
ant challenges we must face in the not-so-distant 
future. Carbon neutrality is a core concept within the 
strategy to reverse or at least mitigate the problem. 
According to the IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on 
Climate Change), carbon neutrality is obtained when 
the total amount of greenhouse gases emitted is equal 
to the total amount removed on a global scale. Re-
ducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions can be done 
by changing energy sources and industry processes, 
compensating and/or capturing emissions.The chemical industry is one of the major sources of 
greenhouse gas emissions (GHE).  On a global scale, 
energy-intensive chemical production processes 
release 1.5 billion tons of CO2 into the atmosphere, 
according to the International Energy Agency.
We fully understand our impact in this respect and 
have implemented several actions to foster energy 
efficiency and expand the use of renewable energy 
sources in order to achieve our goal of carbon neu -
trality by 2050. Our strategy to face climate change is 
divided into three fronts.In terms of reducing emissions, we are working on ex -
panding the use of renewable energy in our operations 
while constantly improving our energy efficiency. As a 
result, in the past 13 years, we have reduced the inten -
sity of our GHG emissions by around 17%. This effort 
will help us achieve our intermediate target of reduc -
ing direct emissions (scopes 1 and 2) by 15%, from 10.8 
million in 2019 to 9.2 million tons of CO2e by 2030.  GRI 
305-5 | SASB RT-CH-110a.2.
 
The second front is compensation, and it will go hand in 
hand with the expansion of our activities in the renew -
able products market. We will increase our output of 
Green Polyethylene with an additional 60,000 tons and 
plan to diversify our portfolio with new solutions based 
on renewable raw materials 
Read more about  
Intellectual Capital.Read more about  
Natural Capital.
On the third front, our innovation teams are working 
tirelessly to develop creative technologies to embed 
carbon capture and use in our processes. Read more 
about it in Intellectual Capital.Our goal is to reduce total 
GHG emissions by 15% 
until 2030 ( from 10.8 
million tons of CO in base 
year 2019 to 9.2 million)CARBON  
NEUTRALITY
 Capture3
Capture of carbon 
emissions through 
research and devel -
opment to use carbon 
emissions as a raw 
material.
Compensation2
Compensation of 
emissions with poten -
tial investments in the 
production of chemi -
cals and polymers from 
renewable sources.
Reduction1
Reduce emissions 
with a focus on energy 
efficiency, as well as 
increasing the use of 
renewable energy in 
current operations, es -
tablishing partnerships 
aimed at innovation 
and technology.STRATEGIC PLANNING
STRATEGY TO ACHIEVE CARBON NEUTRALITY
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
34  Financial Capital
  Manufactured Capital 
  Intellectual Capital 
  Human Capital
  Social and Relationship Capital
  Natural Capital
During this challenging year, we counted on the actions 
of the crisis committee to deliver integrated results.  
This section contains key information on our projects, 
initiatives, results and business performance, organized 
by capital and using accurate and reliable indicators. This 
is how we express our commitment to be transparent in 
our communication to society, our associates, clients, 
suppliers and investors, showing how we create and 
share value.Capital   
performanceCAPITAL’S PERFORMANCE
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
35Financial Capital
GRI 103-2, 103-3 | 201
DIMENSION 2:  
Financial and economic results
 
Our strict financial discipline, careful capital allo -
cation and robust risk management are essential 
elements to ensure healthy Financial Capital.  In 
2020, our recurring Operating Result was R$ 10,975 
million and our positive Net Cash Flow totaled R$ 
1,276 million, with a leverage ratio of 2.94x, signifi -
cantly lower than in 2019.
Signature of the UN Global  
Compact’s CFO Principles
In 2020, as a member of the CFO Task Force, an initiative promoted by the 
UN Global Compact, we commited to implementing the CFO Principles for 
integrating Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) into our financial and 
investment management. This initiative will involve the definition of goals 
related to our commitments to the SDGs, and is in line with our global strategy 
and with the objective of contributing to improving people's lives through 
sustainable development.Financial Performance  
of Operations
RECURRING OPERATING RESULT
US$ 2,082 million
38% higher than  2019 
Variation justified by:
•  Better spreads for resins and main petrochemicals in 
Brazil, PP in Europe and PE in Mexico
•  Increased resin sales volumes in Brazil with record high in 
quarterly resin sales in the Brazilian market
•  Higher sales volumes in the United States, Europe  
and Mexico
•  In local currency, the Adjusted Operating Result was R$ 
10.975 million, 85% higher compared to 2019 due to the 
devaluation of the Brazilian Real (BRL) against the US dollar
CAPITAL PERFORMANCE
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
36NET CASH FLOW GENERATION
R$ 1,276 million
59% lower than in 2019 
• Strong operating result
•  Monetized PIS/COFINS credits totaling  
R$ 1.786 million
•  Reduced planned investments by 23%
•  Impacts partially set off by the impact of  
working capital in the cash flow in the first  
half of the year due to lower purchased  
volumes of imported naphtha  
AVERAGE DEBT MATURITY 
19 years
•  50% of the debt due later than 2030
•  Average weighted cost of debt impacted  
by exchange rate variation +5.3%
CASH POSITION
US$ 3,940 million 
•  Assures timely payment for debt maturing  
in the next 84 months
•  Considers the revolving credit line of  
US$ 1 billion, available until 2023Origin of Financial 
ResourcesAllocation of Resources Capital Market
INVESTMENTS:
US$ 555 million
8% below the  
US$ 600 million 
Including:
•  Construction of the new PP plant in 
the United States (Delta Project) tota-
ling R$ 802 million (US$ 162 million)
•  Includes investments to restart chlorine-
-soda production in Maceió through the 
acquisition of sea salt
STATEMENT OF VALUE ADDED (DVA) 
R$ 9,599 million 
38% higher than 2019
We aim to distribute our financial capital 
in a way that adds value to all our sta-
keholders. To this end, all funds, whether 
provided by third parties or deriving from 
the company’s own cash flow, are inves -
ted to generate added value for society.  BRKM3
R$ 25.22 per share  
(- 20.04% compared to 2019)  
BRKM3
R$ 23.57 per share  
(- 21.04% compared to  2019)  
•  Uncertainties resulting from the  
COVID-19 pandemic
•  Updates on the geological event in 
Alagoas
•  Loss of investment grade by rating 
agencies 
•  Controlled company Braskem Idesa 
in Mexico affected by problems in the 
transportation of natural gas and ethane 
supply
For additional information  
on Financial Capital, visit our 
Management Report 2020 .Corporate   
leverage  RATIO
Despite the adverse scenario resulting from 
the downturn in the petrochemical industry 
and the uncertainties stemming from the 
Covid pandemic, we have been able to pre -
serve and maintain our solid cash position 
and long debt profile.  In line with our firm 
commitment to financial health and cost 
discipline, we implemented a number of 
measures to reduce our corporate leverage 
ratio, aiming to return to investment grade.  
Since the second quarter of 2020, we were 
able to deleverage significantly, down from 
7.1x to 2.9x at the end of 2020.
One of the measures taken was the issuan -
ce of US$ 600 million in hybrid bonds (su -
bordinated bonds) in July 2020, with 50% 
equity treatment by Standard & Poor's and 
Fitch Ratings.
See complete DVA  
in the indicator center .CAPITAL PERFORMANCE
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
37Manufactured  
Capital
DIMENSION 2:  
Financial and economic results
DIMENSION 3:  
Eliminate plastic waste
Using our fixed assets of R$ 36 billion, in 2020 we pro -
duced a wide and diversified portfolio of hundreds 
of products, with emphasis on thermoplastic resins, 
especially polyethylene (PE), polypropylene (PP) and 
polyvinyl chloride (PVC), implementing initiatives aimed 
at increasing the productivity and competitiveness of 
our operations. Our global production capacity in 2020 
was approximately 21.4 million tons of chemicals and 
thermoplastic resins. 
See more at Braskem   
and Manufactured Capital.CAPACITY, PRODUCTION VOLUME  
AND USAGE RATES 2020 (KT/YEAR)
2020
Brazil  
(chemicals and specialties)9,468 7 ,636 81%
Brazil (green ethylene) 200 175 88%
Brazil (PE) 3,055 2,572 84%
Brazil (PP) 1,850 1,569 85%
Brazil (PVC) 710 449 63%
Brazil (caustic soda) 460 9 2%
Brazil (chlorine) 400 6 2%
Brazil (EDC) 520 0 0%
U.S. (PP) 2,020 1,547 77%
Germany (PP) 625 493 79%
Mexico (ethene) 1,050 787 75%
Mexico (PE) 1,050 780 74%
Total 21,408 16,023 75%
*Closing of the chlorine-soda plant activities in Bahia, due to the end of the useful 
life of this unit.
CAPITAL PERFORMANCE
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
38Utilization Rates  
and SalesRenewal of Raw Material 
ContractsEthylene Supply in Mexico New PP Plant in the USA  
(Delta Project)
We aim to increase the utilization of our 
petrochemical plants to dilute fixed costs 
and make our operations more competi-
tive. In 2020, our capacity utilization rates 
in general were affected by the temporary 
reduction in activities with the sluggish 
demand amidst the COVID pandemic; by 
scheduled shutdowns in the United States 
and Europe; and by the temporary inter -
ruption of natural gas supply in Mexico.
Yet the strong demand for thermoplastic 
resins led to increasing volume of sales 
in the Brazilian market, with a historical 
quarterly record of resins sold, as well as 
higher volume of sales in the United Sta-
tes, Europe and Mexico. We renewed the raw material contracts 
in Brazil with Petrobras, with guaranteed 
supply of naphtha to the industrial units in 
São Paulo, Bahia and Rio Grande do Sul, and 
of ethane and propane to Rio de Janeiro. The 
prices in the five-year contracts are based 
on international references. 
Additionally, to ensure access to the na-
phtha logistics system in Rio Grande do Sul, 
we have also renewed tanking contracts with 
Petrobras as well as handling and tanking 
contracts with Petrobras Transporte S.A.Braskem Idesa is a joint venture formed in 2010 in 
which Braskem holds 75% of the capital and Mexican 
Idesa holds the remaining 25% under a shareholder 
agreement. The company’s petrochemical complex 
uses ethane as a raw material and consumes utilities 
such as water, energy and natural gas. The operation 
has long-term input supply agreements: ethane is 
supplied directly by Pemex and natural gas mainly 
by the same state-owned company, in this case 
through Cenegas.
Since 2017 , Braskem Idesa has received lower volu-
mes of ethane from Pemex than established in the 
supply contract. In 2019, in order to increase the use 
of the petrochemical plant, Braskem Idesa imple-
mented an alternative logistics solution for impor -
ting ethane from the United States through a priva-
te terminal in Coatzacoalcos, and we are involved in 
ongoing discussions with the state company in the 
search for constructive solutions to address the lack 
of ethane in Mexico.
At the end of 2020, Cenegas, the state agency 
responsible for the pipeline and natural gas trans -
portation system in the region, unilaterally inter -
rupted the flow of natural gas to our petrochemical 
complex, paralyzing our activities due to the lack of Our polypropylene production was strengthened in 2020 with the 
opening of the new PP plant in La Porte, Texas. This is the largest 
polypropylene plant in the US (estimated annual production capa-
city >450,000 tons per year), and makes us the largest PP producer 
in the Americas.
As the first plant built by Braskem in the US, the Delta Project 
features the most advanced technology for polypropylene pro-
duction. Aligned with the principles of sustainability and eco-ef -
ficiency, the plant will have lower emission levels and generate 
less waste, operating with greater energy and water efficiency 
and fostering recycling activities. The total investment in the 
new facility was US$ 750 million, and the new unit will boost both 
exports and domestic sales in the US market. Operations started 
in September with significant ramp-up to 101,000 tons and 90% 
utilization rate by the end of 2020.
Our modern innovation and technology center in Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, enables us to deliver pioneering polymers to our 
customers. We have also announced the development of our 
global export center in Charleston, South Carolina, to better serve 
international clients.
For more information about our new PP plant in 
the United States (Delta Project), click here .The Delta Project 
became the largest 
polypropylene plant in 
the United States, with 
450,000 tons annual 
production capacityCAPITAL PERFORMANCE
You can checkour 2020  
operating result by region in our  
Management Report.
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
39energy inputs. We resumed activities partially in Ja-
nuary 2021 under an experimental business model, 
following safety protocols and reducing the impact 
on our capacity to meet the demand of the Mexi-
can plastic industry.
Aiming to assure continuity of operations in Me-
xico, in February 2021, we signed a memorandum 
of understanding with terms and conditions for 
discussing potential additives to the ethane supply 
contract with Pemex, as well as for the develop-
ment of an import terminal for ethane. In addition, 
we signed an agreement for natural gas transpor -
tation services with Cenegas, with a final term of 15 
years. This term is subject to the signature of the 
definitive ethane supply agreement with Pemex. 
The ethane supply contract in Mexico is still valid 
and in force to date.Sales of our I'm green TM biopolymers (PE Verde) and 
resins with recycled content grew respectively 5% and 
284% compared to 2019, despite the weaker global de-
mand in the first half of 2020 due to the COVID pande-
mic. Recycled products reached 9,000 tons sold while 
Green PE reached 170,000 tons sold, both historical 
records. Regarding recycled products, we have expanded 
our partnerships and commercial activities to all regions 
where we operate.
For more information, see  
here  Form 20-F.I’m GreenTM Portfolio 
GRI 103-2, 103-3 | 301, 306, 301-2  Performance in Recycling  
I'M GREENTM SALES (TONS.)
2020 2019 VAR
Recycled 9,067 2,261 284%
Brazil 4,490 1,695 165%
Resins 2,765 996 178%
Chemicals 1,725 699 147%
U.S. and Europe 1,810 666 172%
Mexico 2,766 – n.a.
Green PE 169,632 161,424 5%
Utilization rate 
(green ethane)87% 78% 9%In all, our recycling efforts in 2020 con -
tributed to more than 5,000 tons of 
plastic waste returning to the economy 
through resins with recycled content.
In Brazil, we saw a 320% increase in the 
number of clients purchasing resins with 
recycled content compared to 2019.  
This growing number of clients reflects 
the stronger demand for plastic resins, 
especially in the retail sector. Another 
important factor is the expansion of our 
capacity to produce recycled products 
through new partnerships with recyclers, 
which leads to greater availability and a 
more robust portfolio. One key achievement was our partnership 
with Valoren to build a recycling line and 
expand our portfolio of post-consumer 
resins in Indaiatuba (SP).  We will invest 
R$ 67 million in the construction of a 
recycling line with capacity to transform 
250 million packages into 14,000 tons of 
high-quality post-consumption resin per 
year. Operations are expected to start in 
the fourth quarter of 2021. GRI 301
In the USA, Braskem entered a long-term 
relationship with Encina, a leading pro -
vider of solutions for the production of 
renewable chemicals, for the production 
of circular recycled polypropylene (PP). 
Encina technology can produce renewab -
le chemicals from post-consumer plas -
TOTAL VOLUME OF POST-CONSUMPTION PLASTIC WASTE UTILIZED IN RECYCLED 
CONTENTS (TONS.) 
20182018 20192019 20202020
BrazilBrazil U.S.U.S. MEXMEX EUREUR BrazilBrazil U.S.U.S. MEXMEX EUREUR BrazilBrazil U.S. U.S. MEXMEX EUREUR
107107 00 00 00 1,1131,113 666666 00 00 2,6462,646 1,5981,598 838838 212212
TOTAL:TOTAL:  107 107 TOTAL:TOTAL:  1,779 1,779 TOTAL:TOTAL:   5,2945,294CAPITAL PERFORMANCE
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
40Plastics in LANDFILLS
In 2020, we closed an agreement with the environmental engineering company 
Tecipar through which we created a sorting plant for the separation of solid and 
organic waste collected by the municipalities of Barueri and Santana de Parnaíba.  
The screened plastic will be directed to a Braskem recycling partner, and the 
recycled resins they produce will then become raw material for new Braskem plastic 
products. The project is expected to prevent 2,000 tons of plastic waste from being 
dumped annually at the Santana de Parnaíba landfill. This total is equivalent to 
approximately 36 million plastic packaging items.tic, and the company plans to open a new facility in 
the second half of 2021. Additionally, we joined the 
Polypropylene Recycling Coalition, a group committed 
to increasing PP recycling, to ensure this material is 
widely recovered and reused in final markets, including 
food and beverage packaging, consumer goods and 
automotive parts.
We also made our first sales of recycled resins in Mexico 
and Europe, and will soon announce partnerships to boost 
our operations in recycled products in those regions.Some of our recycling projects
•  ABSORBENTS: A partnership between Braskem, Johnson & John -
son and Mega Embalagens has strengthened our I’m green TM  
Recycled portfolio. The flexible packaging of the Always Free 
absorbents are now produced with 33% post-consumption resin 
obtained from flexible packaging reverse logistics. This is the first 
flexible thin film packaging in hygiene manufactured with 33% 
post-consumption resin.
•  “ANA DE AÇÚCAR” : A joint effort with footwear brand Anacapri ena -
bled the launch of a slip-on called, "Ana de Açúcar", made from our 
biobased, I'm green™ EVA derived from sugarcane ethanol.  Thanks to 
its renewable origin, this widely used material in the footwear industry 
captures 2.1 tons of CO2 for each ton produced. I’m green™ EVA is as 
flexible, light and resistant as conventional plastic resin, preserving 
product quality and design.
•  TRAMONTINA ECOLOGICAL LINE: Tramontina's ECO decoration 
line features products made with I'm green™ materials. The line was 
expanded in 2020 with a new model of the Aztec ECO Vase in their 
Basic line.  Armchairs, chairs, vases, cachepots and watering cans are 
other items in the ECO line, which grew its market share by 54% in 
2020 compared to 2019.CAPITAL PERFORMANCE
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
41Intellectual  
Capital
DIMENSION 7:  
Sustainable innovation
Innovation in products, processes and mindset are es -
sential to achieve the objectives of our business strat -
egy. On the innovation front, our efforts are aimed at 
Research and Development of new products and clean 
technologies, while fostering open innovation and ad -
vancing our digital transformation program to improve 
processes and operations through data analysis and 
automation.
We also encourage all our team members to think out -
side the box and propose new alternatives for everyday 
challenges: we welcome, recognize and forward the 
ideas we receive. Our Digital Challenge, the Innovation 
Portal and the programs related to Transform for Value 
are all part of this effort.
In 2020, our structure designed to foster innovation and 
technology, consisted of:INVESTMENTS IN INNOVATION 2020
AMOUNT IN R$ DETAILS
R&D investment 242.5 millionAmount related to fixed I&T expenses plus 
2020 R&D Capex
Percentage of 
fixed Innovation 
expenditures 
focused on 
sustainability36%Percentage of Opex focused on sustainabi-
lity in 2020
Tax benefit for 
innovation75.4 millon62.5 million in Brazil 12.9 million in the United 
States293 team members
2  Technical Centers focused on 
polymers
2  Technology and Innovation  
Centers, in Triunfo (Brazil)  
and Pittsburgh (U.S.) 
1   Process Technology Development 
Center,  Mauá, (Brazil)
1  Renewable Chemicals Research  
Center in Campinas (Brazil)
7 pilot plants
2  labs for 3D printing in the cities of 
Triunfo (Brazil) and Pittsburgh (U.S.)19  new polyolefin grades added to 
the portfolio in 2020
128  projects for the development 
of new products, markets and 
processes
26  new patent applications and 127 
patent extensions
 
350+  customers served globally by 
our Technology Centers, with 
a total of more than 21,000 
analyses INNOVATION STRUCTURE RESULTS
CAPITAL PERFORMANCE
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
42Key Innovations  
Today Braskem holds a portfolio of 120 innovation proj -
ects with a net present value (NPV) of approximately 
R$ 8 billion in different fronts: 
•  Recycling:  projects for both mechanical and chemical 
recycling.  
Objective: to accelerate the shift towards circular 
economy solutions, strengthening our reputation as a 
leader in sustainability.
•  Lightweight:  seek solutions with less weight in the final 
product for the packaging industry and the automotive 
sector.  
Objective: to contribute to a more sustainable world, re-
ducing waste generation and greenhouse gas emissions.
•  New design copolymers:  production of a new family of 
copolymers with customized properties.  
Objective: to grow the business in markets having high -
er added value.
•  Cleaner polyolefins:  platform that increases the com -
petitiveness of our polyolefin portfolio.  
Objective: to anticipate regulatory and chemical safety 
trends.
•  Activation and prepolymerization:  process improve -
ment projects.  
Objective: improve productivity or reduce costs.SUSTAINABILITY INDEX
We developed and implemented the Sustainability Index 
for the entire portfolio of Innovation and Technology 
(I&T) projects, and this is now part of the standard plan -
ning process and approval pipeline for I&T projects.  The 
Index aims to ensure overall alignment with sustainabili -
ty, and all projects are assessed in terms of sustainability 
from the early planning phase. A new project may have 
a positive, neutral or negative impact on each dimen -
sion (water, energy, chemical safety, process/product, 
greenhouse gas emissions and circularity). In 2020, 80% 
of the I&T projects had a positive impact on the Sustain -
ability Index.
GREEN MEG 
We have enhanced our Green MEG (monoethylene glycol) 
production, a raw material for PET that moves about R$ 25 
billion a year.  In 2017, we signed a technological cooperation 
agreement to develop a pioneering path for the produc -
tion of MEG from sugar, with a demonstration unit starting 
in 2019 to showcase the key design characteristics of the 
pioneering technology that transforms sugar into renew -
able MEG. In 2020, we announced the first production of 
renewable MEG on a demonstration scale, and the next step 
includes making samples available for testing and validation 
by strategic partners. CAPITAL PERFORMANCE
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
43Fostering Innovation
BRASKEM LABS
Braskem Labs was created in 2015 to expand and encou-
rage innovations with a positive socio-environmental 
impact. The program is designed to accelerate startups 
that seek to make the world more sustainable through 
solutions that use chemicals and/or plastic, helping 
them move forward through the next stages of maturity.  
In the 2020 edition of the program, we invited compa-
nies from our value chain to join us. Our clients Ambev, 
BRF , AkzoNobel and Grupo Boticário are now mentoring 
startups and exploring business opportunities with them.
In the midst of social distancing requirements due to the 
pandemic, 20 startups selected for the Ignition and Scale 
programs went through three months of remote wor -
kshops, dynamics and networking to accelerate and build 
up their business. The cycle ended with Demo Day, where 
startups made their pitch to investors, executives and 
business partners.  In all, 25% of the accelerated star -
tups entered relationships with Braskem or participating 
co-sponsors as customers, suppliers or partners.
Our portfolio has grown to 74 accelerated startups so far, 
out of which 32% did business with Braskem.  
Learn more here.3D PRINTING
Another innovation was the launch of a portfolio of exclu -
sive products for 3D printing. Braskem's polypropylene (PP) 
solutions proved to be attractive and ideal for additive man -
ufacturing for their recyclability, impact resistance, dimen -
sional stability and lower density compared to other types of 
plastics, contributing to lighter parts printed in 3D.
Keeping an EYE  on Science
Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is a technique that allows quantifying 
and analyzing the environmental impacts of a good or service, from 
the extraction of the raw material to its final disposal.  LCA is based 
on scientific criteria and the analysis provides accurate information to 
support business decisions aimed at reducing environmental impacts 
along the entire value chain. In addition to quantitative aspects, LCA 
considers carbon footprint, water footprint, toxicity and depletion of 
natural resources, among others.
We use LCA to support strategic decisions in terms of their 
sustainability. In 2020, we launched the LCA Platform, a group of team 
members from all regions responsible for disseminating acquired 
knowledge and exploring new opportunities. A total of seven life cycle 
analysis studies were completed in 2020; another seven were started 
and are currently in development. In addition, we have developed a 
scientific article that is in the final stage of approval by the journal.In all, 25% of the  
accelerated startups  
became Braskem customers, 
suppliers or partnersCAPITAL PERFORMANCE
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
44Digital Transformation DESIGN CHALLENGE
The Braskem Design Challenge connects professionals, 
students and companies in the search for innovative and 
more sustainable solutions to real packaging problems 
through creativity and design, using concepts such as De-
sign for Environment, Life Cycle Assessment and Circular 
Economy.
Our Braskem Design Challenge was also taken online in 
2020.  The event gathered designers to solve packaging 
problems for our clients Grupo Boticário and BRF follo-
wing the Design for Environment concept, which seeks to 
reduce environmental impacts over the entire product life 
cycle. The eighth edition of the Challenge brought toge-
ther 24 recent graduates, and the best solution received a 
R$ 20,000 cash prize. The winning projects are currently in 
the planning phase for technical and industrial validation/
refinement, involving Braskem and clients in the prepara-
tion for a future market launch.
The eighth edition of the Braskem Design 
Challenge attracted 24 just-graduated 
professionals; the prize for the winning 
solution was R$ 20,000In 2020 alone, we developed, tested and imple-
mented digital strategies that unlocked recurring 
gains of more than R$ 54 million/year, representing 
a net present value (NPV) of more than R$ 150 mil-
lion.  Total gains may grow to reach R$ 665 million 
per year.
•  Industry 4.0 technology  
Aiming to maximize the efficiency of the plants, the 
project connects and optimizes plants in order to 
reduce costs, increase efficiency, improve the servi-
ces provided, analyze data and automate repetitive 
or high-risk tasks;
•  Production and inventory planning 
The planning activities are based on an advanced 
data analysis system that assesses the drivers for 
product demand;
•  Purchasing procedure 
From end to end, we provide applications with in-
tuitive language that streamline services from the 
moment the customer places an order until delivery 
and payment.CAPITAL PERFORMANCE
Find out more about  
Braskem Design  Challenge
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
45Human Rights GRI 103-2, 103-3 | 412
We understand that our actions at Braskem have 
a positive or negative impact on human rights. Our 
sustainable development efforts are grounded in the 
internationally recognized rights expressed in the 
International Charter of Human Rights and in the 
Declaration of the International Labor Organization re-
garding fundamental principles and rights in the wor -
kplace. Our commitment to respecting human rights is 
aligned with the United Nations (UN) Guiding Principles 
on Business and Human Rights and covers our own 
operations, the surrounding communities, our value 
chains and even society as a whole.  This commitment 
is expressed in the Global Sustainable Development 
Strategy approved by our Board of Directors and in 
Braskem's Codes of Conduct, both publicly available. 
The Global Sustainable Development Strategy esta-Human Capital
Our team members play the leading role in achieving our 
results, growth and innovations. We aim to offer them a 
better professional experience, in an increasingly diverse 
and inclusive environment, guided by our non-negotiable 
value of safety for people. DIMENSION 1:  
Health and safety
DIMENSION 6:  
Social responsibility and human rights
People Management
In 2020, we put in place measures to ensure opportunities 
for growth, training and professional fulfillment, advancing 
initiatives that enhance BeUx, our value proposition to 
team members.
For additional information, access our 
Management Report. CAPITAL PERFORMANCE
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
46HUMAN RIGHTS  
risk assessment  
and  management
In 2017, 100% of our operations were submitted to 
the first human rights impact assessment study, and 
we started introducing priority risks in the company's 
risk matrix.  In 2020, we continued to implement 
measures for the prevention and mitigation of the 
priority human rights risks, which are now integrated 
in the Corporate Risk Matrix and followed up by 
the Board of Directors and senior management. 
These risks include Dignity and Diversity, Ethics and 
Transparency , Traditional Peoples, Decent work  in the 
value chain and Post-consumption . Our human rights 
impact assessment will be updated in 2021 for all 
Braskem operations.Learn more about  
our Human Rights risk 
mitigation actions here.blishes Braskem's responsibility to identify, assess and 
manage the risks of negative impacts on human rights, 
adopting preventive, mitigating or remedial actions. 
Our ambition is to be recognized as a company that 
promotes human rights and equity throughout our 
value chain. Our global 2030 goals are to manage 100% 
of the high and medium risks in human rights and to 
grow the share of women in leadership positions and of 
black people among our team members. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion  
GRI 103-2, 103-3 | 405
Since 2014, our Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Program 
has developed actions to make our work environment 
increasingly diverse, inclusive and free from prejudice 
and discrimination. Besides wide-reaching initiatives 
across the organization, actions in five specific areas 
have specific strategy and objectives aiming to inclu-
de and expand the participation of historical minori-
ties at Braskem:Dignity and DIVERSITY
In 2020, we finalized a diagnostic analysis 
and defined an action plan to strengthen the 
prevention and remediation of harassment and 
discrimination at Braskem, including better 
ways to protect and hear affected people, and 
measures to prevent new cases.
Our Ethics Hotline received 473 reports and 
closed 578 cases (adding up cases received 
in 2021 and previous years). Out of the 37 
harassment reports received in 2020, 36 were 
resolved, and 10 led to remedial actions. 
We received 5 reports of discrimination; 4 have 
been closed and 1 is still being analyzed. GRI 406-1
SOCIALLY  
VULNERABLEGENDER 
EQUITY
RACE & 
ETHNICITYLGBTQIA+INDIVIDUALS  
WITH DISABILITIESCAPITAL PERFORMANCE
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
47Our 2020 Diversity and Inclusion Week was the first 
global, online edition of the event. Lectures, panels and 
debates presented tools our team members can use to 
promote diversity in their daily lives.
The 2020 edition of Braskem's Internship Program was 
also redesigned to enhance diversity and bring different 
types of knowledge into the company. All phases of the 
recruitment and selection process to fill 300 job ope-
nings took place online, and the Logical Reasoning Test 
was replaced by the Decision-Making Test. Fluency in 
English is no longer mandatory for 40% of the openings 
and the selection of curricula is blind:  recruiters have 
no access to information such as applicant age and 
college attended. This helps to ensure candidates are 
evaluated based on their alignment with our company 
culture, and not harmed by the possible need to invest 
in their training.Our Braskem Black University Student Week had five 
days of online debates highlighting the importance of 
diversity in the workplace. Different workshops pro-
vided hints and tips on how to write up CVs, LinkedIn 
profiles, besides practical advice on how to prepare for 
selection processes.
We also implemented actions to grow the number of 
women in leadership positions within Braskem. In Brazil, 
we were one of the signatories of the Equity is Priority 
movement launched by the Global Compact Brazil 
Network: we pledged to have 30% of women in senior 
leadership positions by 2025. Our Braskem organization 
in Europe also made progress in this regard, signing the 
“Charta of Diversity,” a German initiative that encou-
rages local businesses to promote more diverse and 
inclusive work environments.    Men         Women        Women in leadership         Black          Black in leadership
CAPITAL PERFORMANCE
Diversity
Men
77%2018
77%2019
76%2020Women
202023%2018
23%2019
24%2020Women  
in leadership
27%2018
30%2019
30%2020Black
201929%2018
30%2019
30%2020Black  
in leadership
13%2018
13%2019
13%2020In 2020, we also had significant figures  
in our Internship Program:
+ 25,000 participants
RACE  
38% of the openings filled by black 
candidates (11% higher than 2019)
SOCIAL CLASS  
45% of the interns came from 
families with a combined income of 
no more than R$ 4,000 (8% more 
than 2019)GENDER  
54% of the openings were 
filled by women, in line with pre-
vious years
AGE  
we have a 43-year-old trainee  
for the first timeRESULTS from our Internship Program
* leadership positions include coordinators, 
managers, directors, vice presidents 
and business leader. To find out the % of 
women for each hierarchical level, visit 
www.braskem.com/esgdashboard
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
48Health and Safety at Work  
GRI 103-2, 103-3 | 403, 403-1, 403-2, 403-3, 403-4, 403-5, 403-6, 403-7 | SASB RT-CH-320a.2
Safety is not negotiable at Braskem. We care for our 
team members, and adopt practices to ensure their 
safety and health. We have occupational health and 
safety committees in every operation: the local com -
mittees are responsible for local risk assessments and 
educational campaigns and they also participate in inci -
dent investigations and other local actions. DIMENSION 1: Health and safety 
IMPACTS  GRI 403-9 | SASB RT-CH-320a.1.
In 2020, the three activities with major accidents were i. 
cargo handling, ii. accidental contact with hazardous che -
micals and iii. falls. Accident prevention actions focused 
on reducing risks through technologies and equipment 
that can replace workers or minimize their exposure to 
risks, implementing improvements in engineering controls 
and adopting preventive maintenance programs. Admi -
nistrative measures included enhanced risk analysis tools, 
improved planning for the execution of activities, training 
programs and more effective individual protection.
Unfortunately, in 2020 we recorded a fatal acci -
dent involving an outsourced party due to a leak of a 
flammable chemical followed by a fire in our operations 
in Alagoas. We have strengthened our safety practices 
after the accident, and started a series of studies and 
acquisitions of state-of-the-art equipment to further 
improve our processes. 
In spite of the regrettable fatality, we reduced the acci -
dent rate with and without lost time by 27% compared to 
2019, with the best performance in the last three years.Our goal is to achieve better results in Health and 
Safety by strengthening human reliability to reduce 
human errors. Other actions include careful planning 
and risk assessments, training sessions and process 
improvements. To this end, in 2020 we continued our 
Human Reliability Program, reviewed our SSMA mana-
gement process for third parties and put the Mechani-
cal Integrity Program into practice, with an emphasis on 
efficient management.Learn more in our  
ESG Dashboard. 
To learn more about our 
health and safety manage -
ment, visit here.CAPITAL PERFORMANCE
ACCIDENT RATE CAF + SAF  
(1MM/MHW)TIER 1 ACCIDENT RATE  
(1MM/MHW) 
2018 20190.120.15
0.07
2018 2019 2020 20201.071.31
0.95
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
49Social and Relationship Capital
GRI 102-12, 102-13, 103-2, 103-3 | 203, 413-1, 413-2
In line with our Global Sustainable Development Strategy, 
we seek to promote actions that support social and eco -
nomic development in the communities where we operate, 
with a focus on generating positive impacts and mitigating 
any negative impacts generated by the operation. We also 
maintain a consistent policy of Private Social Investments, 
Donations and Sponsorships to build long-lasting relation -
ships with the communities that live near our facilities.
We believe partnerships are essential for reaching our 
objectives. We join efforts and cooperate with different 
players, both within our value chain and in society at large. 
 
 DIMENSION 6:  
Social responsibility and human rightsPRIVATE SOCIAL INVESTMENT  
Our priority is to manage plastic consumption and post-con -
sumption practices and to foster innovation, entrepreneur -
ship and local development in all regions where we operate. In 
2020, we had an increase of approximately 40% in the amount 
invested in socio-environmental projects and donations, 
including those related to coping with COVID-19. With severely 
restricted face-to-face activities due to the pandemic, most of 
the socio-environmental projects supported by Braskem were 
completely paralyzed, so we reached fewer people than in 2019. 
Indicator 2018 2019 2020
Number  
of people benefited¹199,281 533,447 236,944
Donated amount 11,214,187 .61 8,886,492.61 25,440,555.98²
Amount invested in PSI 9,570,478.67 14,570,068.26³ 7 ,278,548.78
1. Includes PSI beneficiaries, donations and volunteering.
2. Includes donations related to coping with COVID-19.
3. Includes investments related to Maceió (TC1).
Find out more about our  
partnerships here.For more information on our Private Social 
Investment projects, visit here.CAPITAL PERFORMANCE
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
50GLOBAL VOLUNTEER PROGRAM
While we had to adapt our actions to the remote 
format, solidarity remained a strong presence among 
our team members.  At the end of 2020, we had 1,075 
mobilized volunteers, of which 817 were team members 
and 257 were guests, benefiting about 21,000 people. 
At the beginning of the year, the Residents' Center in 
Maceió received two groups of volunteers who came 
from all over Brazil to support the people who lived in 
the neighborhoods affected by the geological phenom -
enon. We also joined the World Cleanup Day with AEPW 
(Alliance to End Plastic Waste) with volunteers in six of 
the countries where we operate.
Finally, we organized the second edition of the WeCARE 
Week, a global week of online activities on the circular 
economy, featuring lectures, conversation circles and 
practical activities for members and their families. MADRE  de Deus
Thirty years ago, there was a chemical leak from a tank owned by 
Copanhia Carbonos Colloidais (CCC) in the city of Madre de Deus, 
Bahia. The leaked product belonged to Tecnor Tecnolumen Química 
do Nordeste (Tecnor) and might have been purchased by Compa -
nhia Petroquímica de Camaçari, one of the companies that later 
formed the Braskem petrochemical conglomerate through a mer -
ger in 2002.  Braskem has never had any corporate relations with 
either CCC or Tecnor. 
Given our experience in the petrochemical products, Braskem was 
asked to help with analysis, studies and environmental repair of the 
affected region, which has been monitored since 2003 by the local 
authorities. Through and addendum to the agreement signed be -
tween authorities and CCC in 2015, Braskem is supporting the relo -
cation of families as necessary to proceed safely with repairs.GOVERNMENTS AND ASSOCIATIONS
Our interactions with government officials and asso-
ciations must be based on transparency, ethics and 
dialogue; always initiated for a lawful reason, involving 
competent agents and conducted in an appropriate, 
professional manner.
To ensure that our interactions with third parties, in par -
ticular public bodies and associations, follow the criteria 
described above, we maintain a strong Government 
Relations team and have a robust Public Official Inter -
action Tool. Our team members can record information 
about any type of interaction with public officials using 
this tool.
Our interactions with government agencies and public 
banks involve a series of fiscal and tax obligations, tax 
incentives, special tax regimes and financing.
This is especially relevant given the fact that we must 
necessarily engage in interactions with government 
agencies and public banks regarding fiscal matters, tax 
obligations, tax incentives, special tax regimes and fi-
nancing. Loans from public banks and government agen-
cies fund our growth projects, especially the National 
Bank for Economic and Social Development (BNDES) 
and the Northeast Bank of Brazil. We also operate with 
international Credit and Export Agencies (CEAs), such as 
Nippon Export and Investment Insurance (NEXI), Japan, 
Euler Hermes of Germany, and SACE, Italy.Aiming to ensure clear focus and consistency in our in -
teractions, in 2020 we developed a Community Engage-
ment Framework to guide the implementation of spe-
cific engagement strategies for each community. The 
initiative is still in the pilot phase, and will soon unfold 
into actions based on the identified impacts.CAPITAL PERFORMANCE
Get to know more about  
our Voluteer Program here.
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
51Supply Chain GRI 102-9, 103-2, 103-3 | 204, 205, 308, 412, 414
In line with our principles of quality and commitment 
to environmental responsibility, our supplier man-
agement is decentralized, with actions distributed in 
different areas guided by our Code of Conduct for 
Third Parties. This internal guideline was built on in-
ternational reference documents, such as the United 
Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and 
a series of resolutions recommended by the Inter -
national Labor Organization. Contractors must abide 
by the Code, which describes their rights and duties 
regarding labor and socio-environmental practices, and 
suppliers classified as having the highest potential risk 
are subject to a due dilligence process.
Several other initiatives focus on increasing efficiency, 
mitigating risks, improving user experience and finan-
cial return, such as the implementation of our digital 
global procurement platform (Coupa), with more than 
40,000 online quotations received from approximately 
10,000 suppliers leading to 91% of all service acquisi-
tions. We also introduced a new inventory manage-ment tool to optimize material inventory parameters 
and storage.
Regarding decent work in the value chain, our aware-
ness-raising actions reached 402 truck drivers, 24 car -
riers and 102 team members in logistics and transpor -
tation companies. The main objective was to prevent 
the sexual exploitation of children and adolescents on 
highways under the Program Na Mão Certa, from Child-
hood Brazil.  Along the same line, we approved a man-
agement process to assess and monitor critical suppli-
ers under more comprehensive human rights criteria.
Aiming to engage our supply chain in sustainability 
issues, in 2020 we reaffirmed our partnership with CDP 
Supply Chain, a program that helps companies identify 
environmental risks and opportunities in their supply 
chain. We achieved more than 86% engagement for 
Climate and 77% for Water, the highest historical index 
in nine years, reaching 119 critical suppliers in Water and 
186 critical suppliers in Climate.We also reviewed supplier pre-qualification processes 
and supplier SSMA assessments to consider the bid-
der's safety performance as an important criterium in 
the selection of service providers. 
ETHANOL SUPPLIERS
Ethanol suppliers go through a very strict admission 
process: our Responsible Ethanol Purchase Program is 
based on Compliance (mandatory requirements) and 
Excellence (continuous improvement). By joining the 
program, the supplier pledges to uphold high standards 
in integrity, environment, human rights of workers and 
communities, management of sugarcane suppliers, 
quality and efficiency.
When joining the program, suppliers commit to uphold-
ing our code of conduct regarding integrity, environment, 
human rights for workers and communities, sugarcane 
supplier management, quality and efficiency. They must 
also agree to audit in their mills, including annual visits 
by sampling. Our close dialogue with ethanol suppliers 
continued in 2020; we carried out remote checks on Bon-
sucro certification reports while independent monitors 
audited the implementation of their management pro-
grams to ensure diligent management of ethanol suppli-
ers, especially with regard to socio-environmental issues. 
4 units were remotely verified, which represented 31.69% 
of the volume supplied in the year.Partnership with CDP Supply Chain 
helps to engage supply chain in 
sustainability mattersCAPITAL PERFORMANCE
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
52Customer Chain Reputation Management
Aiming to map and improve our Clients' overall ex -
perience with us, Braskem started measuring CSAT 
(Customer Satisfaction Score) weekly to monitor satis -
faction and identify opportunities for improving service 
quickly and effectively. Weekly CSAT follow-up was im-
plemented in the second half of 2020 for all businesses 
in Brazil, complementing the biannual NPS (Net Promo-
ter Score) survey. NPS has been in place since 2017 , and 
its findings led to more than 20 improvement actions 
over the course of 2020.Our annual global reputation survey introduced in 2010 
monitors how Braskem is perceived by its key audienc -
es. We use the RepTrak® methodology, created by The 
RepTrak Company, to analyze stakeholder perception 
under emotional aspects (Pulse®) - degree of esteem, 
admiration, empathy and trust - and also as rational 
indicators in seven dimensions: Products and Services, 
Innovation, Work Environment, Governance, Citizen-
ship, Leadership and Performance.
In 2020, Braskem’s global Pulse® score ranged be-
tween 60 and 69 points, with the largest global 
advance in history in the evaluation by participants. 
Considering the seven dimensions, governance is still 
the most relevant for companies in general, as well as 
for Braskem.
Under strict observance of Brazilian Data Protection 
law LGPD, the survey heard 7 ,350 people worldwide in 
a great effort carried out by several internal areas of 
Braskem to glean the perceptions of our diverse audi-
ences, both in relation to Braskem and regarding topics 
considered essential to our business, such as Circular 
Economy, ESG and Innovation.CSAT indicator measures satisfaction 
with customer service on a weekly 
basis, in addition to the biannual NPS 
measurementCAPITAL PERFORMANCE
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
53Natural Capital  
GRI 103-2, 103-3 | 302, 303, 305, 306
DIMENSION 3:  
Plastic waste
DIMENSION 4:  
Climate change
DIMENSION 5:  
Operational eco-efficiency
We understand the relevance of sustainable development, 
and we seek to go beyond compliance with environmental 
legislation. We invest in technologies and initiatives to make 
our operations increasingly eco-efficient, optimizing the 
use of natural resources and reducing negative impacts 
on the environment. During the year, our GHG emission 
intensity indicators, energy consumption, water consump -
tion, waste and effluent generation were impacted by the 
reduction in production caused by the drop in demand due 
to the Covid-19 pandemic.Emissions  GRI 305
Our ambition is to lead the global petrochemical sector 
with the best indicators in GHG emissions, and to be a 
key player in capturing carbon through the production 
of renewable materials. 
Since 2008, when we first structured our internal 
management for this topic, we have implemented sev -
eral Mitigation and Adaptation measures to minimize 
the impact of GHG emissions from our activities and 
anticipate potential risks and business opportunities 
related to climate change.
Our corporate inventory of GHG emissions considers 
100% of our global operations and in 2020 received -- 
for the 10th consecutive year -- the Gold classification 
of the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program (PBGHG) for its 
2019 reported scopes 1, 2 and 3 emissions verified by 
an independent third party. CAPITAL PERFORMANCE
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
54In 2020, we continued reducing our absolute emissions 
(scopes 1 and 2), with a slight decline of 0.62% com -
pared to the previous year, showing our sustained per -
formance even in the face of the Covid-19 pandemic.
We defined our new long-term goals in 2020, and we 
also updated the emissions of our base year, so the 
new figure now reflects scopes 1 and 2 results in 2019. 
Another highlight is that we continue to lead CDP Cli -
mate, and we made their A-list.
Scope 1 emissions totaled 10,035,761 tCO2e, about 
the same level as the previous year(+0.04%). Scope 2 DIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS  
EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1)  ( tCO2e) GRI 305-1INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS  
EMISSIONS (SCOPE 2)  ( tCO2e) GRI 305-2INTENSITY OF GREENHOUSE GAS  
EMISSIONS  (TCO2E/T PRODUCTION) GRI 305-4
10,214,251 802,590 0.6092018 2018 2018
10,032,221 806,347 0.640
10,035,761 735,479 0.669201912019120191
2020 2020 2020
emissions totaled 735,479 tCO2e, 8.79% lower than the 
previous year, as a result of the reduction in the emis -
sion factors of the electricity grid. Approximately 75% 
of the electricity purchased by Braskem comes from 
renewable sources, especially considering the weight 
of hydroelectric power plants in the Brazilian Nation -
al Interconnected System. In addition, since 2019 we 
have been obtaining proof of origin for electricity con -
sumption at our units in Brazil (Market-based), repre-
senting in 2020 18,969 tCO2e in self-declaration and 
10,840 tCO2e with the retirement of renewable energy 
certificates, the so-called I-RECs.CAPITAL PERFORMANCE
1. The result published in the 2019 Report (scope 1, 9,756,560 tCO2e; scope 2, 801,634 tCO2e; and emission intensity, 0.624) was adjusted due to the revision of 
the data and premise and is in the certification phase by a third party, following the criteria of the accounting methodology of the GHG Protocol. GRI 102-48
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
55Reduced  
our greenhouse gas 
emissions by more than 17% between 2008 and 2020.
Reached 94% of our 2020  
long-term climate change goals.
This means  
we avoided the emission
of almost 30 million tons CO2e, equivalent to planting more  
than 200 million trees.
SIGNIFICANT ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS (TONS.)   
GRI 305-7 , SASB RT-CH-120A.1.
2018 2019 2020
NOx 10,566 11,529 11,908
SOx 4,871 3,982 5,989
Volatile organic compounds  (VOC) 9,091 8,753 7 ,523
Toxic air pollutants¹ 595 551 526
Particulate matter (MP) 1,381 932 976
Others² 7 ,989 6,622 4,810
1. Includes Toxic Air Pollutants and HAP (Hazardous Air Pollutants).
2. Includes total hydrocarbons and carbon monoxide.Our performance of the carbon intensity indicator 
(tCO2e/t produced) considers the impact of accumu -
lated Scopes 1 and 2 emissions (Market-based; tCO2e) 
compared to the company's total production (tons 
produced).  Despite our progress in absolute terms, 
Braskem's carbon intensity increased by 4.6% com -
pared to 2019, reaching a value of 0.669 tCO2e / t. This 
increased intensity can be attributed mostly to the 
5% smaller production volume, leading to lower ener -
gy performance in the units, while the events of the 
pandemic of Covid-19 made it impossible to schedule 
maintenance stops in some industrial units.
The results came from the 
purchase and use of renewable 
energy sources, besides efficiency 
gains in our unitsCAPITAL PERFORMANCE
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
56Climate  CHANGE   
adaptation  plan
In 2014, we developed a study to identify opportunities and climate 
risks in 100% of our operations. Based on that study, we created 
an adaptation plan with actions to mitigate or reduce all the most 
significant potential climate risks. Our goal is for all actions to be 
implemented by 2023.
In 2020, we achieved 72% compliance with our Adaptation Plan, 
with emphasis on the completion of actions related to the threat 
of severe storms/electrical discharges in all units, which was the 
greatest potential impact mapped (in terms of the number of 
operations impacted).
The next steps are to reassess the residual risk of all potential 
threats for which 100% of the actions were completed, 
strengthening the company's resilience in the face of potential 
extreme events.CARBON CAPTURE   SASB RT-CH-110a.2
Based on our commitment to sustainable innovation, 
we entered a partnership with the University of Illinois, 
USA, to research alternatives for the development of 
ethylene from the capture and use of carbon dioxide 
(CO2) emitted in industrial processes, especially from 
the burning of fuels.
The project is still in the early phase of development, 
and we will contribute with our know-how in the 
commercialization of raw materials and production of 
polymers. The final objective is to evaluate the possi -
bility of capturing CO2 emitted in our operation and 
converting it into a raw material for the production of 
polymers.
CARBON PRICING GRI 305-8
Since 2016, our Internal Carbon Pricing methodol -
ogy "Shadow Price" supports our investment de-
cision-making with a targeted approach to risk 
management that enables us to leverage attractive 
opportunities. In 2020, based on what we learned from 
this methodology in Brazil, a marginal abatement cost 
curve (MACC) was built with all potential mitigation 
initiatives or under implementation. The analysis led to 
an update of the carbon price and to the definition of 
a global pricing strategy based on "Implied Price" for 
100% Braskem operations worldwide. The implemen -
tation plan for this strategy includes assessing the ad -equacy of the existing tools, updating the documents 
guiding the process, training all members involved in 
the effort and defining KPIs for monitoring.  
 
10 YEARS OF 
GRI 305
In 2020, we celebrated a decade since operations 
started in our green ethylene plant, which uses sug -
arcane ethanol as a raw material to produce poly -
ethylene. Under the I'm green ™ brand, this resin was 
recognized in 2020 by ECLAC as one of the most 
transformative initiatives in sustainable development 
in Latin America.
Over its 10 years of existence, I'm green ™ has avoid -
ed the emission of at least 5.54 million tons of CO2, 
which is equivalent to more than a year of automotive 
emissions in the city of São Paulo. In addition, this resin 
captures up to 3.09 tons of carbon dioxide for each ton 
produced, contributing twice to reducing greenhouse 
gas emissions while maintaining the same quality per -
formance as conventional resins.
We have invested US$ 61 million in expanding biopoly -
mer production to meet the fast-growing demand 
from society and our partners for sustainable prod -
ucts in recent years. We will expand our production capacity for green ethylene in the Triunfo industrial 
unit in Rio Grande do Sul from 200,000 to 260,000 
tons per year. The project aiming to keep Braskem at 
the forefront of the biopolymers market will start in 
2021, with completion planned for the fourth quarter 
of 2022.CAPITAL PERFORMANCE
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
57Energy  
GRI 103-2, 103-3 | 302, 302-3, 302-4
SASB RT-CH-130a.1, RT-CH-110a.2
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND RENEWABLE ENERGY
Reducing energy consumption and using renewable en -
ergy are key to reducing our carbon emissions. We invest 
in energy efficiency projects in our plants, and we seek 
long-term partnerships in our purchase of clean energy. 
Currently, at least 74% of all electricity we purchase globally 
comes from renewable sources.
We signed two contracts for the purchase of renewable 
energy in 2020: one for solar energy with Canadian Solar, 
and the other for wind power, in partnership with Casa dos 
Ventos. Since 2018, we have negotiated and signed four 
renewable energy purchase agreements that will avoid an 
estimated 1.5 million tons of CO2e. These agreements involve 
the construction of renewable energy generation farms, 
contributing not only to our own sustainable development 
strategy, but also improving Brazil's energy matrix, in addi -
tion to bringing economic development to the regions where 
the solar farms are installed.
Our Energy Efficiency Program was created in 2019 to acceler -
ate energy initiatives and boost our competitiveness while re-
ducing our CO2e emissions. The initiatives aim to make Braskem 
one of the best chemical industries in energy consumption 
worldwide, and even during the pandemic we moved forward 
implementing them in several plants. In Bahia, the implemen -
tation brought annual recurring savings of 833 GWh in energy consumed, equivalent to the annual electricity consump -
tion of the entire state of Roraima with its almost 600,000 
inhabitants. In addition, the initiatives also reduced 247,000 
tons of CO2e in the period, or 8% of the site's emissions.
While the coronavirus pandemic and the interrup -
tion at the Chlorine-soda unit in Alagoas reduced our 
operational capacity, energy efficiency initiatives also 
contributed to lower energy consumption.
The indicator for energy efficiency at Braskem units is 
calculated as the ratio between unit energy consump -
tion for production processes and total unit output. 
This indicator is called energy intensity. The sum of the 
energy consumption volumes informed for each unit 
and the energy consumption reported in spreadsheet 
302-1 is not the same. There are differences in the 
control volume considered in the respective calculation, ENERGY CONSUMPTION  (GJ/T)
10.942018
11.09
11.2320191
2020
PERCENTAGE OF CONSUMPTION BY TYPE OF ENERGY IN RELATION TO TOTAL CONSUMPTIONCAPITAL PERFORMANCE
in addition to other factors such as PCI, etc. The pur -
poses are also different: the first is used to measure the 
improvement in energy efficiency at unit level, while the 
second serves accounting and financial purposes, includ -
ing possible negotiations with the unit energy provider.
The following graphics show consumption, type and 
source of energy at Braskem.
8.3%4.6%
61.8%0.1%
25.2%20186.8%4.6%
65.5%6.9%
23%20207 .4%4.2%
62.2%0.5%
25.7%2019   Residual Fuels  
  Natural Gas
  Electricity
  Coal
    Other Fuels
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
58Our annual eco-efficiency targets for water consumption 
and effluent generation per ton of products (m³ t) are 
monitored monthly by the company's top leadership. At 
unit level, effluent management observes local legislation 
and internal procedures related to the characteristics of 
the operation in the region, including substances of inter -
est and composition of effluents. These substances and 
their respective limits are listed in specific national/re-
gional legislation or established in the operating licenses.
In recognition for our water management efforts, for the 
fourth consecutive time we made A List in CDP Water, 
ranking among the best publicly held companies in water 
governance.Water and Effluents   
GRI 303, 303-1, 303-2, 303-4, 303-5
Indicator 2018 2019 2020
Total water consumption (m3) 75,715,960 72,389,471 69,341,060
water consumption (m3/t) 4.28 4.31 4.31
Total effluent generation (m3) 20,981,429 21,922,812 19,672,409
Effluent generation (m3/t) 1.19 1.31 1.22
Water reuse (%) 26.9% 25.4% 25.8%CEO  Water  Mandate
As a result of our efforts in water 
efficiency, in July 2019 we joined the 
CEO Water mandate, a UN Global 
Compact platform that brings together a 
community of more than 150 companies 
around the world committed to 
advancing water management. In 2020, 
we continued our efforts to identify and 
implement collective actions to reduce 
the water risk of the hydrographic basins 
where we are present, interacting with 
several actors, among which there were 
no contact with public agents.
COMMITMENTS AND GOALS
In line with our medium-and long-term commitments to 
reduce 15% of CO2e emissions by 2030 and achieve car -
bon neutrality by 2050, our goal for the short term is to 
achieve a reduction of 250kt/year in 2022 by using energy 
efficiency solutions and renewable energy throughout 2021. 
In terms of our energy matrix, we are establishing partner -
ships to raise the percentage of electricity purchased from 
renewable sources to more than 85% by 2030.PERCENTAGE OF RENEWABLE  
ENERGY IN THE BRASKEM ENERGY MATRIX
TOTAL RENEWABLE  
ENERGY (%)
7.12018
6.4
5.12019
2020RENEWABLE ENERGY 
PURCHASED (%)
15.12018
12.7
12.22019
2020
RENEWABLE ENERGY PURCHASED (%)
742018
72
7420191
2020CAPITAL PERFORMANCE
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
59Waste   GRI 103-2, 103-3 | 306, 306-1, 306-2, 306-3  
A truly circular economy starts at home. That is why 
we have several initiatives to avoid internal waste 
generation. Our priorities are: 1. Avoid generation; 2. 
Reduce; 3. Reuse; 4. Waste treatment; 5. Final Dis -
posal. Our efforts in the different categories aim to 
reduce waste treatment costs, increase eco-effi -
ciency rates and prevent environmental liabilities.
Since 2018, we are members of Operation Clean 
Sweep, and we are committed to adopting the best 
practices in the control of pellets, flakes and dust in 
all our industrial and logistics units. Our goal was to 
become a member of OCS Blue - the highest level of 
participation in the program - by 2020, and we cele-
brate the fact that we are now in this category both 
in Brazil and in the United States. Our Pellet Zero 
Program combined with other pellet containment 
actions at unit level collected approximately 3,000 
tons of pellets, flakes and powders, preventing them 
from reaching rivers and seas.
Indicator 2018 2019 2020
Total waste  
generation (Kg)37 ,669,700 37 ,002,579 35,892,667
Indicator -  
Waste generation (Kg/t)2.13 2.20 2.23Water Security
 
Our long-term goal is to ensure that all the water used 
by Braskem comes from low-risk sources. In a challeng -
ing global scenario, our water risk assessment identified 
severe droughts as the greatest potential risk in Brazil, 
for example. We carry out periodic checks to ensure we 
have enough quality water for the operation of our plants 
in every region. Diagnostic analyses guide Braskem's 
Adaptation Plans, aiming to mitigate availability risks and 
to allocate investments to safer water sources, such as 
reused or desalinated water.
WATER SECURITY INDEX
2018 2019 2020
75% 75% 83%Compared to 2019, our units in Mexico and Germany 
maintained the same Water Security Index - 100%.  
The indicator for USA operations was reduced due 
to the completion of the Texas River Basin risk as -
sessment pointing to higher long-term water risk 
(by 2040). In contrast, Brazil operations improved by 
around 12% thanks to progress in shifting from sur -
face water abstraction to safer underground water 
abstraction, in addition to other internal initiatives to 
increase water reuse and recycling. Given the pro -
portion of Brazilian operations within Braskem's total 
number of plants, their weight in the indicator is 80%, 
which explains why overall corporate results rose from 
75% in 2019 to 82.9% in 2020, with a total of 18.86% 
of our water consumption coming from areas where 
water stress is high or very high.
We collected 3,000 tons of 
pellets, flakes and powders 
and reached the OCS Blue 
level of the Operation Clean 
Sweep program in 2020CAPITAL PERFORMANCE
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
60The Braskem 2020 Integrated Report presents our financial 
and non-financial results from January 1 to December 31, 
2020, including the legal entities Braskem has operational 
control of and/or entities that have their information con -
solidated in Braskem financial statements. Released annu -
ally, the report relies on data collected globally and engages 
different areas of the company, led by Investor Relations, 
Sustainable Development and Corporate Marketing.
 Aiming to ensure the report meets the needs of our 
diverse audiences, we follow the guidelines of the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI), Standards version, Essential 
agreement option; the guidelines of the Sustainabili -
ty Accounting Standards Board (SASB), as well as the 
integrated reporting principles proposed by the Interna -
tional Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC), also abiding by 
CVM Resolution No. 14/2020 and fulfilling all mandatory 
requirements of Technical Guideline CPC 09. We address 
our chosen ESGs in addition to presenting the economic 
and financial information provided externally by KPMG 
and reviewed by Braskem's governance bodies, including 
the Board of Directors.  GRI 102-48, 102-49, 102-51About the Report
Materiality
Braskem periodically assesses materiality (the relevance of 
sustainability topics) to define its long-term objectives and 
strategy for contributing to Sustainable Development.
This structured process includes stakeholder consul -
tation to ensure Braskem maintains a clear focus while 
pursuing its purpose of improving people's lives through 
plastic chemicals.
As a petrochemical company and supplier of raw ma -
terials for different plastic product chains, Braskem 
consistently focuses on the possible impacts caused 
by its businesses on areas such as health and safety, 
economic and financial results, development of mem -
bers, local development, eco-efficiency of its opera -
tions, post-consumer plastic, among others. For more 
information about our sustainable performance, see our 
Global Policy on Sustainable Development .Questions, feedback  
and suggestions about  
this report can be sent to  
braskem-ri@braskem.com.br  
GRI 102-53
The topics contained in this report are material to the 
company's strategy in that they have a positive or nega -
tive effect on our ability to generate long-term value, as 
defined by our materiality matrix.
The matrix originally defined in 2013 was reviewed in -
ternally in 2020; the process and methodology used can 
be found here . GRI 102-21, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44, 
102-47, 103-1
The internal review considered the corporate risks iden -
tified by our risk management procedure and pointed 
out the rationale for our 2030 Commitments, as well as 
their correlation with UN SDGs.
INTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
 A MESSAGE FROM THE BUSINESS LEADER BRASKEM STRATEGIC PLANNING CAPITAL PERFORMANCE ABOUT THE REPORT CREDITS
61ABOUT THE REPORTGRI content summary
Summary of SASB contentMaterial topic 
62
MATERIAL TOPICS GRI SUMMARY SASB SUMMARYINTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
63
MATERIAL TOPICS GRI SUMMARY SASB SUMMARYINTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
Material topic
Material topicSustainability dimension (Braskem global sustai-
nability strategy)GRI and SASB indicators
REFERENCE BETWEEN THE COMPANY'S MATERIAL THEMES AND GRI AND SABS INDICATORS
Non-renewable resourcesDimension 3: Plastic Waste 301-1 Materials used by weight or volumeDimension 4: Climate Change
Health and safety Dimension 1: Health and Safety403-1 Health & Safety Management System
403-10 Work-related health problems
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment  and incident investigation
403-3 Occupational health services
403-4 Worker participation, consultation and communication on occupational health  
and safety
403-5 Training in health and occupational safety
403-6 Promoting workers' health
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of impacts on occupational health and safety directly linked 
to commercial relations
403-8 Workers covered by the occupational health and safety management system
403-9 Work-related injuries
RT-CH-320a.1 - (1) Total recordable incident rate (TRIR) and (2) Fatality rate for (a) direct em-
ployees and (b) contract employees
RT-CH-320a.2 - Description of efforts to assess, monitor, and reduce exposure of employees 
and contract workers to long-term (chronic) health risks
RT-CH-540a.1 - Process safety incidents count (PSIC), process safety total incident rate (PS-
TIR) and process safety incident severity rate (PSISR)
RT-CH-540a.2 - Number of transport incidentsMATERIAL TOPICS64
MATERIAL TOPICS GRI SUMMARY SASB SUMMARYINTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
Material topicSustainability dimension (Braskem global sustai-
nability strategy)GRI and SASB indicators
Human Rights & Equity Dimension 6: Social Responsibility and Human 
Rights 405-2 Ratio of wages and remuneration between women and men
202-1 Proportion of lowest paid wages, by gender, compared to local minimum wage
202-2 Percentage of senior management hired from the local community 
405-1 Diversity in Governing Bodies and Employees
412-2 Employees trained in human rights policies and practices
412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or 
that have been subject to assessment regarding human rights
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken
414-1 New suppliers selected based on social criteria
Safe use of products Dimension 1: Health and Safety416-1 Evaluation of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories
417-1 Product and service information and labeling requirements
RT-CH-410b.1 - (1) Percentage of products that contain Globally Harmonized System of 
Classification and Labeling of Chemicals (GHS) Category 1 and 2 Health and Environmental 
Hazardous Substances, (2) percentage of such products that have undergone a hazard as -
sessment
RT-CH-410b.2 - Discussion of strategy to (1) manage chemicals of concern and (2) develop 
alternatives with reduced human and/or environmental impact
RT-CH-410c.1 - Percentage of products by revenue that contain genetically modified orga-
nisms (GMOs)MATERIAL TOPICS65
MATERIAL TOPICS GRI SUMMARY SASB SUMMARYINTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
Material topicSustainability dimension (Braskem global sustai-
nability strategy)GRI and SASB indicators
Water Dimension 5: Operational Eco Efficiency303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource
303-2 Management of impacts related to water discharges
303-3 Water withdrawal
303-4 Water Disposal 
303-5 Water consumption
RT-CH-140a.1 - (1) Total water withdrawn (2) Total water consumed, percentage of each in 
regions with high or extremely high baseline water stress
RT-CH-140a.2 - Number of incidents of non-compliance associated with water quality per -
mits, standards, and regulations
RT-CH-140a.3 - Description of water management risks and discussion of strategies and 
practices to mitigate those risks
Economic Performance Dimension 2: Economic & Financial Results201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities arising from climate change
201-4 Financial assistance received from the government
RT-CH-000.A - Production by reportable segment
Social Investments and CommunityDimension 6: Social Responsibility and Human 
Rights 203-1 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services offered
204-1 Proportion of spending with local suppliers
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessment and local develop-
ment programs
413-2 Operations with actual and significant negative impacts on local communities
RT-CH-210a.1 - Discussion of engagement processes to manage risks and opportunities as -
sociated with community interests
Free competition Dimension 2: Economic & Financial Results 206-1 Lawsuits for unfair competition, trust and monopoly practicesMATERIAL TOPICS66
MATERIAL TOPICS GRI SUMMARY SASB SUMMARYINTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
Material topicSustainability dimension (Braskem global sustai-
nability strategy)GRI and SASB indicators
Corruption Dimensão 2: Economic & Financial Results205-1 Operations subjected to risk assessments related to corruption
205-2 Communication and training on anticorruption policies and procedures
205-3 Confirmed cases of corruption and measures taken
Public policies N/A415-1 Political contributions
RT-CH-530a.1 - Discussion of corporate positions related to government regulations and/or 
policy
Local laborDimension 6: Social Responsibility and Human 
Rights 412-1 Operations subject to human rights impact analyses or assessments
Transparency & Integrity Dimension 2: Economic & Financial Results307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations
419-1 Non-compliance with social and economic laws and regulations 
Climate Change and EnergyDimension 4: Climate Change
Dimension 5: Operational Eco Efficiency302-1 Energy consumption within the organization
302-3 Energy intensity
302-4 Reduction in energy consumption
305-1 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1)
305-2 Indirect emissions from energy acquisition (Scope 2)
305-3 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3)
305-4 Intensity of greenhouse gas emissions
305-5 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions
RT-CH-110a.1 - Gross global Scope 1 emissions, percentage covered under emissions-limiting 
regulations
RT-CH-110a.2 - Discussion of long-term and short-term strategy or plan to manage Scope 1 
emissions, emissions reduction targets, and an analysis of performance against those targets
RT-CH-130a.1 – (1) Total energy consumed, (2) percentage grid electricity, (3) percentage  
renewable, ( 4) total self-generated energy MATERIAL TOPICS67
MATERIAL TOPICS GRI SUMMARY SASB SUMMARYINTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
Material topicSustainability dimension (Braskem global sustai-
nability strategy)GRI and SASB indicators
Air Dimension 5: Operational Eco Efficiency305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (OSD)
305-7 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions
RT-CH-120a.1- Air emissions of the following pollutants: (1) NOX (excluding N2O), (2) SOX, (3) 
volatile organic compounds (VOCs), and ( 4) hazardous air pollutants (HAPs)
Waste Dimension 5: Operational Eco Efficiency306-1 Generation of waste and significant impacts related to waste
306-2 Management of significant impacts related to waste
306-3 Waste generated
306-4 Waste not for disposal
306-5 Waste for disposal
RT-CH-150a.1 - Amount of hazardous waste generated, percentage recycled
Biodiversity N/A304-1 Owned, leased or managed operational units within or in the vicinity of protected areas 
and other areas of high biodiversity value located outside protected areas
304-2. Significant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity
304-3. Protected or restored habitats
Post-consumption Dimension 3: Plastic Waste 301-2. Materials sourced from recycling 
Suppliers - Environmental Manage-
mentN/A 308-1 New suppliers selected based on environmental criteria
Product development - Environmen-
talDimension 7: Sustainable InnovationDMA Innovation
RT-CH-410a.1 - Revenue from products designed for use-phase resource efficiency
* Material topic 15 was revised from "Equal Opportunities" to "Human Rights & Equaliity"*MATERIAL TOPICS68
MATERIAL TOPICS GRI SUMMARY SASB SUMMARYINTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
GRI Standard Disclosure Page/URL Omission SDGsGlobal 
Compact
General disclosures
Organizational Profile
GRI 102: 2016 
General Disclosures102-1 Name of Organization 6
102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 7 8
102-3 Location of headquarters120, Lemos Monteiro street - Butantã - São Paulo/SP .  
Zip code 05501-0508
102-4 Location of operations 8 8
102-5 Ownership and legal form Publicly held corporation 8
102-6 Markets served 8 8
102-7 Scale of the organization 8 8
102-8 Information on employees and other workers Available at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 8 6
102-9 Supply chain 52
102-10 Significant changes in the organization and its 
supply chainNo significant change during the period covered by the report.
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approachAs a principle and in accordance with the Health, Safety, Environment, 
Quality, and Productivity Policy, Braskem does not produce, handle, 
use, market, transport, or dispose of any product if unable to do so 
safely, with a minimum impact of the product on the environment.
102-12 External initiatives 50
102-13 Membership of associations 50
Strategy
GRI 102: 2016 
General Disclosures102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 3 4
102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 20GRI content summary GRI 102-55GRI SUMMARY69
MATERIAL TOPICS GRI SUMMARY SASB SUMMARYINTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
GRI Standard Disclosure Page/URL Omission SDGsGlobal 
Compact
Ethics and Integrity
GRI 102: 2016 
General Disclosures102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of 
behavior9 16
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about 
ethics11
Governance
GRI 102: 2016 
General Disclosures102-18 Governance structure 10
102-19 Delegating authority 10
102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, 
environmental and social issues10
102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, 
environmental and social topics Available at https:/www.braskem.com.br/material-
issuesassessement
102-22 Composition of the highest governance body 
and its committees10
102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Available at www.braskem.com.br/corporate-governance
102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest 
governance body Available at www.braskem.com.br/corporate-governance
102-25 Conflicts of interest 10
102-26 Role of the highest governance body in setting 
purpose, values and strategy10
102-27 Collective knowledge of the highest governance 
body10
102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s per -
formance10
102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environ-
mental, and social impactsAvailable at www.braskem.com.br/corporate-governance
102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 20
102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social 
topicsAvailable at www.braskem.com.br/corporate-governanceGRI SUMMARY70
MATERIAL TOPICS GRI SUMMARY SASB SUMMARYINTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
GRI Standard Disclosure Page/URL Omission SDGsGlobal 
Compact
Stakeholder Engagement
GRI 102: 2016 
General Disclosures102-40 List of stakeholder groups Available at https:/ /www.braskem.com.br/material-issues-
assessement
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Available at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 8 3
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholdersAvailable at https:/ /www.braskem.com.br/material-issues-
assessement
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagementAvailable at https:/ /www.braskem.com.br/material-issues-
assessement
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Available at https:/ /www.braskem.com.br/material-issues-
assessement
Reporting Practice
GRI 102: 2016 
General Disclosures102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial 
statementsAvailable at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard
102-46 Defining report content and topic BoundariesAvailable at https:/ /www.braskem.com.br/material-issues-
assessement
102-47 List of material topicsAvailable at https:/ /www.braskem.com.br/material-issues-
assessement
102-48 Restatements of information 55 and 61
102-49 Changes in the reporting 61
102-50 Reporting period 2
102-51 Date of most recent report 61
102-52 Reporting cycle 2
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the 
report61
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 
Standards61
102-55 GRI Content Index 68
102-56 External assurance 82GRI SUMMARY71
MATERIAL TOPICS GRI SUMMARY SASB SUMMARYINTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
GRI Standard Disclosure Page/URL Omission SDGsGlobal 
Compact
Materials
GRI 201: Economic Performance
GRI 103: 
Management 
approach 2016103-1 Explanation of material topic and its BoundaryAvailable at https:/ /www.braskem.com.br/material-issues-
assessement
103-2 The management approach and its components 36
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 36
GRI 201: 2016 
Economic 
Performance201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Available at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 8, 9
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and 
opportunities due to climate changeAvailable at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 13 7,  8
201-4 Financial assistance received from government Available at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 16
Market presence
GRI 103: 
Management 
approach 2016103-1 Explanation of material topic and its BoundaryAvailable at https:/ /www.braskem.com.br/material-issues-
assessement
103-2 The management approach and its components Available at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Available at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard
GRI 202: Market 
Presence 2016202-1 Ratio of standard entry level wage by gender 
compared to local minimum wageAvailable at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 1, 5, 8 6
202-2- Proportion of senior management hired from 
the local communityAvailable at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 8 6
Indirect Economic Impacts
GRI 103: 
Management 
approach 2016103-1 Explanation of material topic and its BoundaryAvailable at https:/ /www.braskem.com.br/material-issues-
assessement
103-2 The management approach and its components Available at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Available at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard
GRI 203: Indirect 
Economic Impacts 
2016203-1 Infrastructure investments and services 
supportedAvailable at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 5, 9, 11GRI SUMMARY72
MATERIAL TOPICS GRI SUMMARY SASB SUMMARYINTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
GRI Standard Disclosure Page/URL Omission SDGsGlobal 
Compact
Procurement Practices
GRI 103: 
Management 
approach 2016103-1 Explanation of material topic and its BoundaryAvailable at https:/ /www.braskem.com.br/material-issues-
assessement
103-2 The management approach and its components Available at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Available at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard
GRI 204: 
Procurement 
Practices 2016204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Available at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 8
Anti-Corruption
GRI 103: 
Management 
approach 2016103-1 Explanation of material topic and its BoundaryAvailable at https:/ /www.braskem.com.br/material-issues-
assessement
103-2 The management approach and its componentsAvailable at https:/ /www.braskem.com.br/material-issues-
assessement
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Available at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard
GRI 205: Anti-
corruption 2016205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to 
corruption 11 and 12 16
205-2 Communication and training about anti-
corruption policies and proceduresAvailable at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 16 10
205-3 Confirmed cases of corruption and actions 
takenAvailable at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 16 10
Anti-competitive behavior
GRI 103: 
Management 
approach 2016103-1 Explanation of material topic and its BoundaryAvailable at https:/ /www.braskem.com.br/material-issues-
assessement
103-2 The management approach and its components 11
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 11
GRI 206: Anti-
competitive 
Behavior 2016206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, 
anti-trust and monopoly practicesAvailable at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 16GRI SUMMARY73
MATERIAL TOPICS GRI SUMMARY SASB SUMMARYINTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
GRI Standard Disclosure Page/URL Omission SDGsGlobal 
Compact
Materials
GRI 103: 
Management 
approach 2016103-1 Explanation of material topic and its BoundaryAvailable at https:/ /www.braskem.com.br/material-issues-
assessement
103-2 The management approach and its components 7 and 40
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 7 and 40
GRI 301: Materials 
2016301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Available at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 8, 12 8
301-2 Recycled input materials used 40 8, 12 8, 19
Energy
GRI 103: 
Management 
approach 2016103-1 Explanation of material topic and its BoundaryAvailable at https:/ /www.braskem.com.br/material-issues-
assessement
103-2 The management approach and its components 58 and 59
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 58 and 59
GRI 302: Energy 
2016302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 58 7 , 8, 12, 13
302-3 Energy intensity 58 7 , 8, 12, 13 8, 9
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 58 7 , 8, 12, 13
Water and effluents
GRI 103: 
Management 
approach 2016103-1 Explanation of material topic and its BoundaryAvailable at https:/ /www.braskem.com.br/material-issues-
assessement
103-2 The management approach and its components 58 and 59
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 58 and 59
GRI 303: Water and 
Effluents 2018303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 59 6, 12 7,  8
303-2 Management of water-discharge-related 
impacts59 6
303-3 Water withdrawal Available at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 6
303-4 Water discharge Available at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 6 8
303-5 Water consumption 59 6GRI SUMMARY74
MATERIAL TOPICS GRI SUMMARY SASB SUMMARYINTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
GRI Standard Disclosure Page/URL Omission SDGsGlobal 
Compact
Biodiversity
GRI 103: 
Management 
approach 2016103-1 Explanation of material topic and its BoundaryAvailable at https:/ /www.braskem.com.br/material-issues-
assessement
103-2 The management approach and its components Available at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Available at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard
GRI 304: 
Biodiversity 2016304-1 Operational sites owned, leased or managed 
in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high 
biodiversity value outside protected areasAvailable at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 6, 14, 15 8
304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products and 
services on biodiversityAvailable at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 6, 14, 15 8
304-3 Habitats protected or restored Available at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 6, 14, 15 8
Emissions
GRI 103: 
Management 
approach 2016103-1 Explanation of material topic and its BoundaryAvailable at https:/ /www.braskem.com.br/material-issues-
assessement
103-2 The management approach and its components 29, 34, 54, 55, 56 and 57
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 29, 34, 54, 55, 56 and 57
GRI 305: Emissions 
2016305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 55 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 8
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 55 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 8
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Available at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 13, 14, 15 8
305-4 GHG emissions intensity 55 13, 14, 15 8, 9
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 56 13, 14, 15 8, 9
305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Available at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 13, 14, 15 8
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx) and 
other significant air emissions56 13, 14, 15 8GRI SUMMARY75
MATERIAL TOPICS GRI SUMMARY SASB SUMMARYINTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
GRI Standard Disclosure Page/URL Omission SDGsGlobal 
Compact
Waste
GRI 103: 
Management 
approach 2016103-1 Explanation of material topic and its BoundaryAvailable at https:/ /www.braskem.com.br/material-issues-
assessement
103-2 The management approach and its components 33, 40 and 60
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 33, 40 and 60
GRI 306: Waste 
2020306-1 Generation of waste and significant impacts 
related to waste60
306-2 Management of significant waste-related 
impacts60
306-3 Waste generated 60 8
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal 60 8
306-5 Waste directed to disposal 60 8
Environmental Compliance
GRI 103: 
Management 
approach 2016103-1 Explanation of material topic and its BoundaryAvailable at https:/ /www.braskem.com.br/material-issues-
assessement
103-2 The management approach and its components 20 and 22
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 20 and 22
GRI 307: 
Environmental 
Compliance 2016307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and 
regulationsAvailable at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 16
Supplier Environmental Assessment 
GRI 103: 
Management 
approach 2016103-1 Explanation of material topic and its BoundaryAvailable at https:/ /www.braskem.com.br/material-issues-
assessement
103-2 The management approach and its components Available at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Available at www.braskem.com/esgdashboardGRI SUMMARY76
MATERIAL TOPICS GRI SUMMARY SASB SUMMARYINTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
GRI Standard Disclosure Page/URL Omission SDGsGlobal 
Compact
GRI 308: 
Environmental 
Assessment of 
Suppliers 2016308-1 New suppliers that were screened using 
environmental criteriaAvailable at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 16
Occupational Health and Safety
GRI 103: 
Management 
approach 2016103-1 Explanation of material topic and its BoundaryAvailable at https:/ /www.braskem.com.br/material-issues-
assessement
103-2 The management approach and its components 49
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 49
GRI 403: 
Occupational 
Health and Safety403-1 Occupational health and safety management 
systemAvailable at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 8
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment and 
incident investigationAvailable at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 3, 8
403-3 Occupational health services Available at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 3, 8
403-4 Worker participation, consultation and 
communication on occupational health and safetyAvailable at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 8
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and 
safetyAvailable at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 8
403-6 Promotion of worker health Available at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 3
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational 
health and safety impacts directly linked to business 
relationshipsAvailable at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 8
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and 
safety management systemAvailable at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 8
403-9 Work-related injuries Available at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 3, 8, 16
403-10 Work-related illnesses Available at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard
Diversity and Equal Opportunity
GRI 103: 
Management 
approach 2016103-1 Explanation of material topic and its BoundaryAvailable at https:/ /www.braskem.com.br/material-issues-
assessement
103-2 The management approach and its components 47 and 48
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 47 and 48GRI SUMMARY77
MATERIAL TOPICS GRI SUMMARY SASB SUMMARYINTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
GRI Standard Disclosure Page/URL Omission SDGsGlobal 
Compact
GRI 405: Diversity 
and Equal 
Opportunity 2016405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Available at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 5, 8 6
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of 
women to menAvailable at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 5, 8, 10 6
Non-Discrimination
GRI 103: 
Management 
approach 2016103-1 Explanation of material topic and its BoundaryAvailable at https:/ /www.braskem.com.br/material-issues-
assessement
103-2 The management approach and its components 47 and 48
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 47 and 48
GRI 406: Non-
discrimination 2016406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective 
actions taken47 5, 8 4, 5
Human Rights Assessment
GRI 103:  
Management 
approach 2016103-1 Explanation of material topic and its BoundaryAvailable at https:/ /www.braskem.com.br/material-issues-
assessement
103-2 The management approach and its components 20, 46 and 52
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 20, 46 and 52
GRI 412: Human 
Rights Assessment 
2016412-1 Operations that have been subject to human ri-
ghts reviews or impact assessmentsAvailable at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 1
412-2 Employee training on human rights policies and 
practices Available at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 2, 6
412-3 Significant investment agreements and contrac -
ts that include human rights clauses or that underwent 
human rights screening Available at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 1, 2, 6
Local Communities
GRI 103: 
Management 
approach 2016103-1 Explanation of material topic and its BoundaryAvailable at https:/ /www.braskem.com.br/material-issues-
assessement
103-2 The management approach and its components 50
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 50GRI SUMMARY78
MATERIAL TOPICS GRI SUMMARY SASB SUMMARYINTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
GRI Standard Disclosure Page/URL Omission SDGsGlobal 
Compact
GRI 413: Local 
Communities 2016 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, 
impact assessments and development programsAvailable at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 10
413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential 
negative impacts on local communitiesAvailable at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 5, 8, 10
Supplier Social Assessment 
GRI 103:  
Management 
approach 2016103-1 Explanation of material topic and its BoundaryAvailable at https:/ /www.braskem.com.br/material-issues-
assessement
103-2 The management approach and its components 52
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 52
GRI 414: Supplier 
Social Assessment 
2016 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social 
criteriaAvailable at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 5, 8, 16 6
Public Policy
GRI 103:  
Management 
approach 2016103-1 Explanation of material topic and its BoundaryAvailable at https:/ /www.braskem.com.br/material-issues-
assessement
103-2 The management approach and its components 11
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 11
GRI 415: Public 
Policy 2016415-1 Political contributions Available at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 16 10
Customer Health and Safety
GRI 103:  
Management 
approach 2016103-1 Explanation of material topic and its BoundaryAvailable at https:/ /www.braskem.com.br/material-issues-
assessement
103-2 The management approach and its components Available at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. Available at www.braskem.com/esgdashboardGRI SUMMARY79
MATERIAL TOPICS GRI SUMMARY SASB SUMMARYINTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
GRI Standard Disclosure Page/URL Omission SDGsGlobal 
Compact
GRI 416: Customer 
Health and Safety 
2016416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of 
products and servicesAvailable at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard
Marketing and Labeling
GRI 103:  
Management 
approach 2016103-1 Explanation of material topic and its BoundaryAvailable at https:/ /www.braskem.com.br/material-issues-
assessement
103-2 The management approach and its components Available at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Available at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard
GRI 417: Marketing 
and Labeling 2016 417-1 Requirements for   product and service 
information and labelingAvailable at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 12
Socioeconomic Compliance
GRI 103:  
Management 
approach 2016103-1 Explanation of material topic and its BoundaryAvailable at https:/ /www.braskem.com.br/material-issues-
assessement
103-2 The management approach and its components 11
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 11
GRI 419: 
Socioeconomic 
Compliance 2016419-1 Non-compliance with social and economic laws 
and regulationsAvailable at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 16GRI SUMMARY80
MATERIAL TOPICS GRI SUMMARY SASB SUMMARYINTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
Topic Metrics Page/ URL SDG
SASB - Chemicals
Greenhouse gas 
emissionsRT-CH-110a.1. Gross global Scope 1 emissions, 
percentage covered by emissions limit regulations55 and available at https:/ /www.braskem.com.br/material-issues-
assessement13
RT-CH-110a.2. Discussion of the long and short-term 
strategy or plan for managing Scope 1 emissions, 
emission reduction targets and  goal performance 
analysis34, 57 and 58 13
Air QualityRT-CH-120a.1. Emissions of the following pollutants: 
(1) NOx (excluding N2O), (2) SOx, (3) volatile organic 
compounds (VOCs) and ( 4) hazardous air pollutants 
(HAPs)56 3, 12
Power ManagementRT-CH-130a.1. (1) Total energy consumed, (2) 
percentage of electricity from the grid, (3) percentage 
of renewables, ( 4) total self-generated energy58 7, 9
Water managementRT-CH-140a.1. (1) Total water withdrawn, (2) total water 
consumed, percentage of each in regions with baseline 
high or extremely high water stress60 and available at https:/ /www.braskem.com.br/material-issues-
assessement6, 9
RT-CH-140a.2. Number of non-compliance incidents 
associated with licenses, standards and regulations for 
water qualityOmission: we were unable to consolidate this data globally for 
this cycle and Report. We are commited to improving our global 
management of this topic and intend to report on it in our 2021 
Report.6
RT-CH-140a.3. Description of water management risks 
and discussion of strategies and practices to mitigate 
such risks60 6, 9
Hazardous Waste 
ManagementRT-CH-150a.1. Amount of  hazardous waste generated 
and percentage recycledAvailable at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 12Summary of SASB contentSASB SUMMARY81
MATERIAL TOPICS GRI SUMMARY SASB SUMMARYINTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
Topic Metrics Page/ URL SDG
Community 
RelationsRT-CH-210a.1. Discussion of engagement processes 
for managing risks and opportunities associated with 
community interests 50
Workers' health and 
safetyRT-CH-320a.1. (1) Total recordable incident rate (TRIR) 
and (2) fatality rate for (a) direct employees and (b) 
outsourced employees49 8
RT-CH-320a.2. Description of efforts to assess, 
monitor and reduce the exposure of employees and 
contracted workers to  health issues (chronic disease)49 8
Safety and 
Environmental 
Management for 
ChemicalsRT-CH-410b.1 (1) Percentage of products that contain 
the Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling 
of Chemicals (GHS) Category 1 and 2 Hazardous 
Substances for Health and Environment, (2) 
percentage of such products that have been subjected 
to risk assessment1) Available at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 12
RT-CH-410b.2 - Discussion of strategy to (1) manage 
chemicals of concern and (2) develop alternatives with 
reduced human and/or environmental impactAvailable at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 12
Genetically 
Modified OrganismsRT-CH-410c.1 - Percentage of products by revenue 
that contain genetically modified organisms (GMOs)Available at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 12
Management of the 
Legal & Regulatory 
EnvironmentRT-CH-530a.1 - Discussion of corporate positions 
related to government regulations and/or policy
proposals that address environmental and
social factors affecting the industry21
Operational 
safety, emergency 
preparedness and 
responseRT-CH-540a.1. Process Security Incident Count (PSIC), 
Total Process Security Incident Rate (PSTIR) and 
Security Incident Severity Rate for the Process (PSISR) 4Available at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 8
RT-CH-540a.2. Number of transport-related incidents 
managing risks and opportunities associated with 
community interestsAvailable at www.braskem.com/esgdashboard 8
Production RT-CH-000.A - Production by reportable segment 38 8SASB SUMMARY82
MATERIAL TOPICS GRI SUMMARY SASB SUMMARYINTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
83
MATERIAL TOPICS GRI SUMMARY SASB SUMMARYINTEGRATED   
REPORT  2020
Credits
Braskem
Carolina Rodrigues Pignata
Gabriela Linhares Bacarin
Isabela Basso
Vittoria Pìcarelli
rpt sustentabilidade
Content:  Sarah Fernandes
Project management:  Ricardo Duarte
Graphic design and layout: Sergio Almeida
GRI Consultant:  Adriana Couto
English Version
Doris Buchmann
Images
Brand Center Braskem 
Gettyy Images
Audit
KPMG GRI 102-56