Environmental, 
Social &  
Governance
broadcom.com2020 
REPORTLetter from Our CEO  4
Introduction  5
Who We Are 5
Our Global Presence 6
What We Make 7
Responding to COVID-19 8
Our Strategy 9
Connecting Everything, Responsibly  10
About This Report  13
Environmental Stewardship 14
Managing Our Environmental Impact 15
Energy and Emissions  16
Water and Waste Management 18
Social Impact 20
Diversity and Inclusion  21
Compensation and Benefits 24
Training and Development 26
Employee Health and Safety 27
Investing in Our Communities 30
Supply Chain Responsibility 33
Governance  37
Corporate Governance and Board Oversight  38
Stakeholder Engagement  39
Ethics and Integrity  4 1
Data Privacy and Cybersecurity  44
Product Quality  47
Appendix  48
2
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT Table of Con TenTsWe connect everything and, 
more importantly, everyone. 
Our responsible procurement and business practices, 
together with our talented and dedicated workforce, enable 
us to deliver innovative technology solutions that enhance 
the way we live, work and play. Our products create 
opportunities for the world's diverse populations, inextricably 
linking financial, social and environmental sustainability. 
3
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT Conne CTing e very ThingLetter from Our CEO 
Over the past several years, we have transformed 
Broadcom into a global technology leader that 
delivers products and solutions “connecting 
everything” in our lives. 
Connections are at the core of what we do, and 
this inaugural Environment, Social & Governance 
(ESG) Report reflects our commitment to 
connect with the many diverse constituencies 
worldwide who have a stake in the responsible 
conduct of our business.
The technologies we create are often unseen, 
but impact countless aspects of daily life. As 
the world confronts a life-changing pandemic, 
now more than ever we seek to take care of 
our employees and the communities where 
we operate, while also ensuring we continue to 
deliver the mission-critical solutions on which our 
customers, and their customers, depend.
I am proud of all our work in the face of the 
COVID-19 pandemic. Our products and 
technologies have supported people through the 
upheaval the pandemic has caused by helping to 
preserve and strengthen many of the economic 
and social connections that the virus has strained. 
Our wireless and broadband solutions enabled 
millions of people to work remotely and for children to attend school safely from a distance 
during periods of quarantine and shelter-in-place, 
and also supported governments, companies and 
schools in their efforts to safely and seamlessly 
resume activities. Meanwhile, our software 
products helped government agencies securely 
set up or expand public assistance programs in 
response to the pandemic. And, as biotechnology 
firms continue to make progress on potential 
therapies and immunizations, our encoders 
and optocouplers are used in the industrial 
automation processes for the manufacture of 
vaccines and in the packaging and delivery 
mechanisms needed to deploy them. 
These achievements and many others are 
made possible by our more than 20,000 
talented employees who are at the core of our 
success. We strive to maintain a transparent and 
meritocratic work environment that supports the 
diversity and inclusiveness of our workforce and 
empowers and rewards our employees. 
We also recognize our responsibility to reduce 
our impact on the environment and in recent years we have implemented a number of 
measures that do this, including installing 
perfluorocarbon emissions abatement devices to 
cut our greenhouse gas emissions, and investing 
in water recycling equipment to reduce our 
freshwater intake. These efforts not only improve 
our resource efficiency, but they also enhance our 
financial performance. 
As we work to connect everything, we seek to do 
so responsibly. We strive to deliver best-in-class 
products to our customers, and to exceed the 
expectations of our stakeholders. I am committed 
to keeping our ESG efforts focused on initiatives 
and activities that improve efficiency and mitigate 
our risks, while also delivering on our return-on-
investment requirements. We look forward to 
continuing to report on our progress in this area in 
the coming years. 
Hock E. Tan  
President and Chief Executive Officer  
Broadcom Inc.As we work to connect everything,  
we seek to do so responsibly.
4
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT leTTer from o ur C eoWho We Are
Broadcom is a global technology leader 
that designs, develops, and supplies 
a broad range of semiconductor and 
infrastructure software solutions.
Recognized for our innovation, collaboration, and engineering 
excellence for over 50 years, we deliver to our customers 
proven, mission-critical technologies with a focus on “connecting 
everything”® more efficiently, reliably and securely. 
Our rich heritage can be traced to technology pioneers such as 
AT&T Bell Laboratories, Lucent Technologies & Agere Systems, 
Hewlett-Packard & Agilent Technologies, LSI Logic, Avago 
Technologies, Broadcom Corporation, Brocade Communication 
Systems, CA Technologies and Symantec Corporation and our 
culture of technological innovation continues today, thanks to 
our more than 20,000 talented and dedicated employees across 
the Americas, Asia, Europe and the Middle East. 
We leverage our scale and engineering expertise to support 
many of the world’s largest enterprises, including most of the 
Fortune 500 and many government agencies. Our cutting-edge 
products and technologies are used in a wide range of critical 
industries, including telecommunications, manufacturing, energy, 
transportation, healthcare and finance. We design and build 
high-performance, complex semiconductor devices that are 
used in countless end-products and applications, and we deliver 
infrastructure software solutions that allow our customers to 
plan, develop, automate, manage and secure applications and 
data across mainframe, distributed, mobile and cloud platforms.
5
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT Who We a reHeadquarters 
san Jose, California
Manufacturing Locations 
Colorado, north Carolina,  
Pennsylvania and s ingapore  
85 locations
globally where our culture of  
technological innovation continues.
>20,000 employees
across the Americas, Asia, Europe, and the Middle East.AVGO
Nasdaq
learn more about our history and subsidiaries:Our Global Presence
Annual Report 
on Form 10-KBroadcom's History 
webpage
6
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT our g lobal PresenC eWhat We Make
Our technologies are ubiquitous. For example, 
the smartphone you may be using to read this 
report is probably powered by components 
that we make. When you are at home, our 
products are in your television set-top boxes 
and media streaming players, Wi-Fi routers, 
broadband gateways and cable modems. 
When you are in your car, our vehicle 
connectivity technologies are powering your 
infotainment systems, cameras and safety 
sensors. When you need life-saving healthcare, 
our sensor components and encoders 
enable important medical equipment such as 
ventilators, defibrillators, MRI machines, PET 
and CT scanners, infusion pumps and other 
drug delivery devices. When you are making 
purchases online, our security software 
helps your payment-card issuer distinguish 
legitimate transactions from fraudulent ones. 
When you are at work, we safeguard your 
data and digital infrastructure from criminals 
and other malicious actors. In other words, 
wherever you are, we enable the development, 
movement and storage of the huge volumes 
of data needed for myriad business and 
personal applications. In fact, we estimate 
more than 99% of internet data traffic passes 
through one or more of our technologies 
during its journey from start to finish. 
   For more information on the semiconductor and 
software solutions we offer, please refer to our 
Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year  
ended November 1, 2020 .How Our Products and Solutions Help People Every Day
We develop products and solutions that help people connect with each other and with the world.
Our FBAR filter, Bluetooth and Wi-Fi combo 
transceiver and GNSS receiver are used in 
many smartphones to enable ubiquitous 
communications, networking and navigation 
around the world.
Our automotive Ethernet products enable robust 
in-vehicle connectivity and networking of cameras 
and sensors supporting various Advanced Driver 
Assistance System applications, such as lane 
departure warning, blind spot detection and 
autonomous emergency braking, which prevent 
accidents and increase passenger safety.Our payment authentication software protects 
consumers by fighting card-not-present fraud.Our sensing and inductive components 
are embedded in smartwatches, which 
afford users a variety of lifestyle and 
wellness benefits, including monitoring and 
encouraging health and fitness habits.
7
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT Wha T We m ake Responding to COVID-19
As the global COVID-19 pandemic continues to put 
extraordinary pressure on all of us, our technologies 
have contributed in several critical ways to the response, 
supporting people, their well-being and their communities. 
When public-health 
authorities and technology 
firms wanted to develop 
COVID-19 contract-tracing 
solutions on mobile phones, 
they turned to our bluetooth l ow 
energy technologies  to provide the 
electromagnetic foundation for their 
applications.When no-touch technology 
became a vital part of 
pandemic containment strategies, our 
optical sensors  contributed to a wide 
variety of applications, from medical 
diagnostic equipment like non-contact 
infrared thermometers to contactless 
light switches, water faucets, soap/
towel dispensers and hand dryers.When large swaths of the 
global population quarantined 
or sheltered-in-place, they 
depended upon our wireless and 
broadband solutions  to enable home-
based remote work and distance learning.
When a leading U.S. medical 
center wanted to ramp up 
COVID-19 testing capabilities 
by rapidly opening drive-
through testing locations, our identity 
security solution  enabled clinicians and 
patients to securely access health data 
using new mobile devices.When pharmaceutical 
companies began developing 
vaccines for the SARS-CoV-2 
virus and mass-producing face 
masks, glass vials and syringes, our 
encoders and optocouplers  were part 
of the industrial automation processes 
used for the manufacturing, packaging 
and delivery of these items.When an urgent need arose for large quantities of ventilators to support 
critical-care COVID-19 patients, medical-technology innovators leveraged our 
“system-on-a-Chip”  technology embedded within Raspberry Pi computer 
boards to design cost-effective, scalable solutions. 
When national and regional governments needed to rapidly scale public-
assistance programs amidst an unprecedented surge of unemployment, our 
enterprise software and security  divisions rallied to help agencies deploy 
efficient and secure web applications that processed millions of requests for 
financial support.   For more information on our internal health and 
safety, philanthropic and supply chain resiliency 
responses to COVID-19, please see pages 29, 31 and 
33, respectively, of this report.
8
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT resPonding T o Covid -19 Our Strategy
Our strategic focus is on delivering a 
comprehensive suite of leading-edge technology 
solutions to the world’s largest business and 
government customers over the long term. We 
seek to achieve this through responsibly financed 
acquisitions of category-leading businesses 
and mission-critical technologies in established 
markets, as well as by investing extensively 
in research and development (R&D) to help 
our existing products retain their technology 
leadership. We also strategically focus our R&D 
resources to address niche growth opportunities 
in our target markets. Many of our products have 
grown out of our rigorous R&D approach, which 
in turn has supported our competitive advantage 
and performance differentiation. 
Our manufacturing business model is 
primarily outsourced—relying on trusted, 
reputable industry partners. We use our own 
environmentally responsible fabrication facilities 
(or fabs) in Fort Collins, Colorado; Charlotte, 
North Carolina; Breinigsville, Pennsylvania; 
and Singapore to make products utilizing our 
innovative and proprietary processes. This 
approach allows us to protect our intellectual 
property, accelerate time to market of our 
products and provide a reliable supply of key 
components.
Our ESG priorities are also focused on the long-
term and are underpinned by and aligned with 
our long-term business strategy and capital 
allocation practices, as discussed in more detail 
to follow.generating v alue
We combine best-of-breed technology with 
unmatched scale, leveraging a common sales 
and administrative platform, which results in 
a robust business model designed to drive 
diversified and sustainable operating and 
financial results. Fortune magazine named 
us #1 for the highest return on revenue in the 
Fortune 500, in 2018, and #3 for 10-year total 
shareholder return in the Fortune 500, in 2019.
Through our highly efficient operating model 
we strive to maximize value for our stakeholders, 
while providing flexibility in how we can invest 
our resources. Our disciplined management, 
operating and acquisition strategies have allowed 
us to increase our dividend every year since we 
began paying dividends in 2010, and has allowed 
us to repurchase an aggregate of $14.5 billion of 
our common stock (including shares withheld to 
cover taxes due on vesting of employee equity) 
over the last three fiscal years.1fiscal y ear 2020 h ighlights
$23.9B 
in net  
revenue
$5.0B
or 20.8% of 
revenue, in 
research and 
development 
expenditures$463M 
in capital 
expenditures
$13.00
in aggregate 
cash dividends, 
per share of 
common stock
   Additional information with respect to our financial 
results may be found in our Annual Report on Form 
10-K for FY20. 
1.  The declaration and payment of any dividend and share repurchases are subject to the 
approval of our Board of Directors. 9
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT our sT raTegyConnecting Everything, Responsibly 
Our mission is to connect everything and, more importantly, everyone. Our 
responsible procurement and business practices, together with our talented 
and dedicated workforce, enable us to deliver innovative technology solutions 
that enhance the way we live, work and play. Our products create opportunities 
for the world’s diverse populations, inextricably linking financial, social and 
environmental sustainability. 
Our motto— connecting everything —represents both a challenge and an 
opportunity for our business. It requires that we create innovative technology 
solutions for our customers, while also considering how we impact our other 
stakeholders and the value chains in which we operate.
10
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT Conne CTing e very Thing, r esPonsibly  Our ESG Priorities
During our fiscal year ended November 1, 
2020 (FY20), we conducted our inaugural ESG 
materiality assessment, to help us understand 
the ESG issues that are most significant to the 
company and our stakeholders, and to guide us 
as we develop our ESG program and initiatives. 
During this process, we undertook a robust 
analysis that considered a wide range of inputs to 
identify focus areas, risks and opportunities for the 
company. These inputs included the following:
• Reviews of leading global reporting guidelines, 
including the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
and Sustainability Accounting Standards 
Board (SASB), and market trends and 
standards in the semiconductor and software 
industries, including the focus areas set forth 
by the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA).
• Perspectives and feedback received from  
our investors and our customers on their  
ESG priorities.
•  Engagement with key internal stakeholders, 
including our employees, senior leadership, 
and internal subject matter experts, to identify 
and prioritize the ESG issues with the most 
significant potential impact on our business. 
The resulting issues were evaluated, ranked and 
validated by our ESG Steering Committee and 
reviewed by our Board of Directors (Board). The 
ESG topics presented below were determined 
to be the most significant and will guide our 
sustainability programs and initiatives. We intend 
to periodically refresh our materiality assessment. broadcom’s m aterial esg Topics
The topics we deem most material to our  
stakeholders, to our impacts and to our  
ability to create long-term value, include:
environment
 Energy use and efficiency
Greenhouse gas emissions
Water management
Waste management  
and reduction of  
hazardous materials
governance 
Ethics and integrity
Corporate governance
Data privacy and cybersecurity
Product qualitysocial
Inclusion, diversity and  
non-discrimination
Talent recruitment,  
development and retention
Employee health  
and safety
Supply chainse
g
11
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT Conne CTing e very Thing, r esPonsibly  Supporting the United Nations  
Sustainable Development Goals
The United Nations (UN) Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) provide a call to 
action on, and a global framework to address, 
many of the pressing social and environmental 
issues facing us today. We understand that 
companies are increasingly thinking about how 
they can contribute to the advancement of these 
goals. We are supportive of the SDGs and strive 
to conduct our business in an ethical, socially 
responsible and environmentally sustainable 
manner that contributes to growth and innovation 
and delivers economic, social and environmental 
benefits for all stakeholders. As a company, our 
mission is to engage our global scale, engineering 
depth and innovation to deliver technology and 
infrastructure software solutions to improve 
the everyday lives of millions of people and to 
empower and connect people and businesses 
around the world. 
The Broadcom Foundation, with which we 
are affiliated, is also committed to supporting 
the SDGs by advancing education in science, 
technology, engineering and math (STEM) 
and increasing opportunities for young people 
through its signature programs. 
We believe technology has the power to 
transform lives and open new avenues for 
community engagement and economic 
prosperity.
12
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT Conne CTing e very Thing, r esPonsibly  About This Report 
report b oundaries 
This report was published in February 2021. 
Unless otherwise noted, this report covers 
Broadcom’s FY20 (November 4, 2019 to 
November 1, 2020) and provides qualitative 
and quantitative information on our approach 
to managing ESG issues. We intend to 
continue to report on our ESG programs and 
initiatives annually. For additional information, 
visit Broadcom’s Corporate Citizenship 
webpage . This report covers our ESG efforts 
across our organization, with a primary focus 
on our activities in the United States.
reporting g uidelines and Content
We prepared this report leveraging the GRI 
Sustainability Reporting Standards (Core 
option) and the SASB Semiconductors and 
Software & IT Services Industry Standards. 
interpretation
When we use the terms “Broadcom,” “we,” 
“us,” “our” and the “company”, we mean 
Broadcom Inc., a Delaware corporation, and 
its consolidated subsidiaries, taken as a whole, 
unless the context otherwise indicates.
Our fiscal year ends on the Sunday closest 
to October 31 in a 52-week year and the first 
Sunday in November in a 53-week year. In 
this report, we refer to our fiscal years by the 
calendar year in which they end. For example, 
the fiscal year ended November 4, 2019 is 
referred to as FY19.The terms “material” and “materiality” as used 
in this report and in the materiality assessment 
referenced above are different from those terms 
as used in the context of filings with the U.S. 
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 
Issues deemed material for the purposes of this 
report or the materiality assessment may not be 
deemed material for SEC reporting purposes.
forward- looking s tatements
This FY20 ESG Report contains forward-
looking statements, including statements as 
to our priorities and goals, business strategy, 
performance and market opportunities, 
products and technology development, and 
operations and compliance with applicable 
laws and regulations, and are based on our 
current expectations, beliefs and assumptions. 
Actual results could differ materially from 
those statements. Risk factors that could cause 
actual results to differ from our expectations 
are set forth in the “Risk Factors” section and 
throughout our Annual Report on Form 10-K 
for FY20. These risk factors are subject to 
updating by our future filings and submissions 
with the SEC and our earnings releases. 
securities and e xchange Commission filings
Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly 
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on 
Form 8-K and amendments to these reports 
are available free of charge on our website 
as soon as practicable after they are filed or 
furnished with the SEC. These reports and 
amendments are also available free of charge 
on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.reporting u ncertainties
Non-financial information is subject to 
measurement uncertainties resulting 
from limitations inherent in the nature 
and the methods used for determining 
such data. The selection of different but 
acceptable measurement techniques can 
result in materially different measurements. 
The precision of different measurement 
techniques may also vary.
   Additional information with respect to 
our financial results may be found in 
our Investor Center on our website. 
13
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT abou T This re Por T  Environmental Stewardship
We seek to manage our operations in a 
sustainable manner that considers our 
direct and indirect, and current and future, 
impacts on the planet. The use of natural 
resources is an inherent part of our business, 
and we strive to continuously improve the 
quality and efficiency of our operations by 
managing these resources effectively. 
While our semiconductor business primarily operates through a 
fabless production model where we outsource the manufacture 
of our semiconductor chips to trusted third-party suppliers and 
foundries, we seek to ensure that our proprietary fabs, where we do 
fabricate our own products, are run sustainably and efficiently.
We also recognize that robust environmental management is good 
business, as it means that we can support a sustainable value chain that 
is risk-prepared, solutions-oriented and lower-impact for the environment 
for both our customers and our businesses. Managing our environmental 
impact is not only beneficial from a sustainability perspective and 
enhances our resilience to climate change, but it can also improve our 
operational performance and reduce costs. As a result, we focus our 
environmental initiatives on projects that improve efficiency and mitigate 
risks, while also delivering on our return on investment requirements.
14
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT environmen Tal sT eWardshi PManaging Our Environmental Impact
Our most significant environmental impacts are associated with the energy we consume, the 
greenhouse gases (GHG) we emit, the water we use, and the waste we generate in our operations, 
both directly at our proprietary manufacturing locations and indirectly through our outsourced 
manufacturing activities. To help us manage these impacts, we have implemented a global  
Environment and Sustainability Policy , which outlines our environmental standards and expectations.Our environmental management 
system, which is aligned with 
the international certification, 
International Organization for 
Standardization (ISO) 14001 , guides our 
efforts in achieving the expectations set forth by 
our Environment and Sustainability Policy. Our 
environmental management system serves as a 
framework for our global operations. In addition, 
we track and review our environmental data, such 
as energy and GHG emissions, water usage and 
waste generated, as we look for ways to improve 
our environmental performance over time.
  International Organization 
for Standardization (ISO) 
14001 certificationbroadcom’s e nvironment and s ustainability Policy
• Ensure our products and operations comply with applicable environmental legislation 
and other related compliance obligations;
• Operate an environmental management system that is aligned with our business 
practices including continual improvement;
• Conduct our operations in a manner that supports recycling, conservation of resources 
and prevention of pollution and protection of the environment;
• Responsibly manage the use of hazardous materials in our operations and products;
• Inform suppliers, partners and contractors of our environmental expectations and 
encourage them to adopt sound environmental management practices; and
• Promote environmental responsibility among our employees.
   Broadcom’s Environment and Sustainability Policy
ISO 
14001
15
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT environmen Tal sT eWardshi PEnergy and Emissions 
At Broadcom, we understand that climate 
change poses a serious challenge for society and 
that a collective effort is required to effectively 
mitigate its effects. 
We actively monitor and collect data on the 
electricity and fuel we consume in our facilities, 
which are the primary drivers of our Scope 1 and 
2 GHG emissions. In FY20, we calculated GHG 
emissions associated with our electricity, natural 
gas, diesel, refrigerant and perfluorocarbon 
(PFC) consumption for our U.S.-based office and 
manufacturing facilities. Electricity usage at our 
facilities accounts for approximately 72% of our 
total energy consumption and approximately 
53% of our overall Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions. 
Our second largest source of GHG emissions are 
PFCs, which are used in processing equipment 
at our manufacturing facilities, which account for 
approximately 37% of our overall Scope 1 and 2 
GHG emissions. We describe reduction initiatives 
that target our two largest sources of emissions, 
among others, below. 
To drive operational improvement, we routinely 
review the efficiency of our equipment, 
technologies and processes, and look for ways to 
reduce our energy consumption and emissions. 
We have many on-going long-term efficiency 
improvement and emission reduction projects 
throughout our U.S. facilities. For example, we have implemented several GHG 
emissions reduction and energy saving programs 
at our Fort Collins site, which is our largest 
proprietary fab, including:
• the installation of numerous PFC emission 
abatement devices, which have resulted 
in approximately 517,000 tons of avoided 
emissions, in the aggregate, since their 
installation began in 2015;
• the conversion of some of the plant cooling 
systems from chillers to evaporative cooling, 
which saves approximately, 7,205,000 kWh of 
electricity per year; 
•  the utilization of chiller reject heat to capture 
waste heat from the plant to warm the water 
used in the manufacturing process, which 
saves approximately 45,950 decatherms of 
natural gas per year; and 
• various other maintenance protocols and 
upgrades that result in additional electricity 
savings of approximately 440,000 kWh per 
year and eliminate the use of approximately 
71,000 decatherms of natural gas per year.
broadcom’s u .s.-based  
energy and e missions
The following tables summarize our energy 
consumption as well as our greenhouse 
gas emissions at our U.S. owned or leased 
facilities in FY20.
Fuel and Energy Consumption*  (kWh)
Natural Gas 114,360,183
Diesel 266,223
Electricity 292,466,322
Total Energy Consumption 407,092,728
Energy intensity per million 
dollars of revenue  
(kWh/$M of net revenue)17,033
Greenhouse Gas Emissions* (tCO2e)
Scope 1 Emissions
PFCs 90,029
Natural Gas 20,731
Refrigerants 1,818
Diesel 68
Total Scope 1 112,646
Scope 2 Emissions (Location-based method) 
Total Scope 2 128,076
Total Scope 1 & 2 240,722
Total Scope 1 & 2 emissions per 
million dollars of revenue  
(tCO2e/$M of net revenue)10
* For all environmental metrics, we apply the operational control boundary. We used the methodology outlined in the World Resource Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council for Sustainable 
Development’s (WBCSD) GHG Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition) to calculate the Scope 1 and 2 emissions generated by our U.S.-based facilities. Through this 
assessment, we measured the GHG emissions associated with the natural gas and diesel fuels we utilize for heating and cooling our facilities and for our backup generators, as well as the refrigerants and PFCs 
used in our manufacturing processes (Scope 1 emissions). In addition, we measured the electricity we purchase to power our facilities (Scope 2 location-based method). GHG emissions are reported in metric 
tonnes of CO2e (tCO2e). Our energy consumption is limited to natural gas, diesel and electricity use. We calculate energy and emissions based on actual data when available. When actual consumption data is 
not available, we estimate utilizing square footage intensity factors by facility type.
16
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT environmen Tal sT eWardshi Pour Products s upport s ustainable e nergy 
Beyond our efforts to reduce energy consumption, our products have a variety of sustainable-
energy applications—especially for our customers in the industrial and automotive sectors.At our fab in Breinigsville, Pennsylvania, we 
have begun converting our vacuum pump 
manufacturing technology from an oil-
based system to a dry system that requires 
substantially less energy to operate and 
substantially eliminates hydrocarbon and 
polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) lubricant 
used in the pumps, as well as the associated 
hazardous waste. This results in a 48% reduction 
(approximately 106,000 kWh) in 
each pump’s annual electricity 
consumption. Additionally, in 
FY20 we began converting 
fluorescent bulbs at the 
fab to light emitting diode 
(LED) bulbs due to their 
higher energy efficiency and 
significantly longer lifespans. 
This is expected to result in 
estimated energy savings of 90,000 
kWh per year and eliminate the consumption 
of approximately 900 fluorescent bulbs over 
the next five years, as well as the associated 
hazardous waste. 
These initiatives as well as our other continuous 
improvement initiatives are deeply integrated 
within our ISO 14001 aligned management 
approach and are prioritized by their return-on-
investment.
We outsource our data center operations and 
do not maintain operational control over them, 
however, our service providers are expected to 
comply with our Supplier Environmental and 
Social Responsibility Code of Conduct (Supplier 
Code) . As a result, our data center energy 
consumption is not included in the scope of 
our GHG emissions calculations. Nevertheless, more than half of our outsourced global data 
center capacity is in facilities 100% powered by 
renewable energy sources. 
We are improving our data collection processes 
to capture and calculate energy consumption 
and GHG emissions for substantially all of our 
facilities (U.S. and international locations), so 
that we may better monitor and provide a more 
complete picture of our impacts moving forward.
Generators of energy from renewable sources, 
such as wind and solar, depend upon our 
optocoupler and fiber-optic solutions to support 
power conversion, electrical current/voltage 
sensing, battery bank charging and system 
control and status communications for both 
solar photovoltaic arrays and wind turbines.Our isolation products support reduction 
of GHG emissions by providing essential 
technology for hybrid and electric vehicle 
motor-drive and battery-management 
systems as well as essential components for 
charging stations and on-board chargers for 
electric and plug-in hybrid vehicles.To date, we have converted 33 vacuum pumps 
from an oil-based system to a dry system 
resulting in a reduction of approximately 
3,498,000 kWh   
of annual electricity consumption. 
17
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT environmen Tal sT eWardshi PWater m anagement
We recognize the water scarcity and quality 
challenges that many communities encounter 
around the globe, and we strive to use water 
responsibly in our operations. 
Semiconductor manufacturing uses a 
significant amount of water. We operate a 
primarily outsourced manufacturing model, 
with over 85% of our wafer manufacturing 
done by third-party foundries. We also 
outsource almost 
all of our assembly 
and test operations 
to third parties. 
Our contract 
manufacturers and 
other suppliers are expected to abide by our 
Supplier Code . In FY20, we calculated water 
withdrawals associated with our U.S.-based 
office and manufacturing facilities. 
We regularly monitor our own water use and 
make efforts to conserve and use it efficiently 
in our facilities. In the U.S., the primary driver of 
our water consumption is our Fort Collins fab. 
We have invested in substantial improvements 
to conserve, recycle and reclaim water used at 
this facility. For example, our two-stage reverse 
osmosis system at this fab collects reject water 
and converts it into clean water that can be 
used in the manufacturing processes, instead 
of being disposed of as wastewater. Prior to 
FY20, this system conserved approximately 40 
million gallons of water per year. In late FY20, we expanded the capacity of this reuse system 
by 18 million gallons, bringing the total savings 
to approximately 58 million gallons per year. 
In addition, in 2016, we converted some of our 
exhaust scrubbers, which help clean the air 
leaving our fabs, to utilize recycled water from 
our acid waste neutralization system, instead of 
using incoming municipal water. This initiative 
saves an approximately 21 million additional 
gallons per year. 
Similarly, the two-stage reverse osmosis 
system at our Breinigsville fab conserves approximately 15 million gallons of municipal 
water per year and prevents it from being 
disposed of as wastewater. In addition, at that 
site we collect and reuse water condensation 
from the chilled water coils in our air handling 
units to provide water to our cooling towers. 
This process saves an approximately 5 million 
additional gallons of water per year. These 
conservation efforts alone are estimated to 
have reduced the Breinigsville fab’s FY20 water 
consumption by approximately 15%.monitoring o ur Water u se 
The following table summarizes our 
water use at our U.S. owned or leased 
facilities in FY20.
Water* (gallons)
Total Water Withdrawn 516,370,248
Water Conserved Through 
InitiativesApproximately 
99,000,000  
per year  Broadcom Supplier 
Environmental and 
Social Responsibility 
Code of ConductWATER STEWARDSHIP AT OUR  
FORT COLLINS FAB
The Fort Collins fab 
has been a Gold 
Environmental Leader 
with the Colorado 
Department of Public 
Health & Environment 
since 2010, and a Platinum 
ClimateWise Member in 
the City of Fort Collins 
Sustainability Partnership 
since 2000.
 * We are in the process of improving our data collection processes to capture all facilities (U.S. and 
international locations) so that we may better monitor and provide a more complete picture of our 
impacts moving forward. We calculated water withdrawals based on actual data when available. 
When actual data is not available, we estimate utilizing square footage intensity factors by facility 
type. Water conservation data is estimated based on initiatives implemented at the Fort Collins 
and Breinigsville facilities. Water and Waste Management
18
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT environmen Tal sT eWardshi PWaste m anagement
We also monitor our waste byproducts and 
generation as part of our overall environmental 
impact management. In FY20, we began a 
process to aggregate our waste data, which 
has historically been handled at a local level. 
Specifically, we are focused on reducing 
the amount of waste generated from our 
operations, as well as reducing or eliminating 
hazardous materials in our products. 
The Fort Collins fab is the leading driver of our 
waste generation, which includes wastewater. 
Our wastewater quality is frequently tested, 
and meets or routinely exceeds Environmental 
Protection Agency and Fort Collins quality 
testing standards. In addition, we enhanced 
our hazardous waste disposal process at this 
site for acid waste and solvent waste rags by 
compacting these materials. This reduced 
the number of our hazardous waste disposal 
barrels by 50%, which in turn reduced the 
number of shipments and the environmental 
footprint related to their disposal.In our Breinigsville fab, we also recently 
implemented a process to remove the aqua 
regia solvent used in our manufacturing 
processes from the laboratory wastewater 
treatment program for recycling and 
reclamation purposes. 
Furthermore, we partner with a third-party 
service provider to decommission and recycle 
all of our U.S. e-waste, as required by local 
regulations. In FY20, we recycled over 130,000 
pounds of e-waste from our U.S. facilities.
UNITED STATES
In FY20, we recycled over 
130,000 lbs  
of e-waste from our U.S. facilities. We are focused on reducing the amount of waste 
generated from our operations, as well as reducing or 
eliminating hazardous materials in our products.
19
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT environmen Tal sT eWardshi PSocial Impact
Our employees are our most 
important asset, and their passion 
for excellence and innovation is our 
most prized resource. Their talents 
and dedication, and the diversity of 
their ideas, experiences, cultures and 
perspectives fuel our progress and our 
success. We strive to recruit and retain 
the best and the brightest, period. 
We also recognize that our business 
impacts, and is dependent on, not 
only our employees, but those of our 
supply chain partners, as well as the 
communities in which we and our 
supply chain partners operate.
20
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT soCial i mPaCTDiversity and Inclusion
We understand that business success and 
innovation thrive in a diverse and inclusive 
work environment. As an equal opportunity 
employer, we strive to recruit and hire diverse 
candidates and to employ and advance qualified 
women, minorities, veterans, and individuals 
with disabilities. We also strive to create a 
meritocratic work environment that is welcoming 
and inclusive to all and which empowers our 
employees to collaborate freely and contribute to 
our collective success.
At the end of FY20, Broadcom had more than 
20,000 employees in 30 countries around 
the world, with 51% in the United States, 12% in 
Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA), 18% 
in Asia Pacific (APAC), 17% in India, and 2% in 
Canada / Latin America (CAN/LAM). At the end of FY20, over 63% of our global 
employees were in R&D roles. Our success 
depends on our continued ability to retain, attract 
and motivate talented engineering and technical 
personnel, as well as effective sales professionals. 
Competition for these employees is significant 
in many areas of the world in which we operate, 
including in Silicon Valley and in Southeast Asia 
where qualified engineers are in high demand. 
In order to attract and retain these employees, 
we offer highly competitive compensation and 
benefits packages, including broad-based equity 
compensation, as discussed in more detail below. 
In FY20, Broadcom hired approximately 5,500 
employees, of which 82% came onboard through 
acquisitions. Our global voluntary attrition rate, 
which does not include employees who left as a 
result of restructuring, divestitures or terminations 
for cause, was 7.3% in FY20, which is below the 
technology industry benchmark (AON, 2020 
Salary Increase and Turnover Study — Second 
Edition, September 2020). 
GLOBALLY
At the end of FY20, Broadcom had more than 
20,000 employees  
in 30 countries.
Employees
By Region51%
12%18%17%
2%● U.S.
● Can/LAM
● EMEA
● APAC
● India
21
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT soCial i mPaCT● American Indian/Alaska Native
● Asian
● Black
● Hispanic
● Native Hawaiian/Paciﬁc Islander
● Other/not declared
● Two or more
● White/Caucasian● Male
● FemaleU.S. Employees
Race/Ethnicity
U.S. People Managers
Race/EthnicityGlobal
People Managers
86%14%Global
Employees
79%21%
39%48%3%1%0.3%
8%0.9%
51%
38%1%0.2%0.4%0.2%
6%
0.1%3%● Male
● Female79%21%
Global
Employees
14%
86%Global
People Managersdemographics of our workforce at the end of fy 20
22
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT soCial i mPaCTmanaging o ur efforts
We are a multi-national, multi-cultural company and employ people of many different nationalities, 
ethnicities, cultures, faiths and beliefs around the world. We are firmly committed to providing 
equal opportunity to all persons without regard to race, color, sex, gender, gender identity, gender 
expression, sexual orientation, religious creed, national origin, age, physical disability, mental 
disability, medical condition, pregnancy, genetic information, ancestry, marital status, Protected 
Veteran Status (Recently Separated, Disabled, Armed Forces Service Medal, Active Duty Wartime 
or Campaign Badge), political affiliation, union membership or other bases protected by applicable 
federal, state, or local law. This applies to all of our employment decisions including, but not 
limited to, recruiting, hiring, training, promotions, pay practices, benefits, disciplinary actions and 
terminations, and prohibits harassment of applicants and employees.
To further promote diversity and inclusion, 
we maintain Affirmative Action (AA) and 
Employment Equity programs in our 
U.S. and certain international locations. 
These programs inform and help support 
equal employment opportunity (EEO) in 
our recruitment, selection, assignment, 
promotion, training and other aspects of 
employment. 
We periodically monitor our various 
programs and policies related to employment 
decisions and equal opportunity, including 
our annual analyses of our AA programs and 
policies, as well as our annual compensation 
programs, internal mobility and workforce 
management, to identify and address areas 
of potential improvement. supporting f air labor and h uman r ights
Our employment practices and policies 
support the fundamental human rights 
principles of freely chosen employment, 
non-discrimination, the elimination 
of forced and underage labor and 
the rights of workers to organize and 
freely associate, as articulated in the 
International Labour Organization 
Conventions. We currently have a number 
of employees under collective bargaining 
agreements in various countries.Winning “W” for Our Board Diversity
In 2020, Broadcom 
was awarded the 2020 
Women on Boards’ 
Winning “W” for its 
Board diversity. This 
award recognizes public 
corporations achieving 
20% or higher female 
representation on their 
corporate boards.board d iversity
Broadcom is fortunate to have a talented 
and diverse Board of Directors. Four of our 
directors, or 44%, identify as members of 
under-represented social or ethnic groups1 
and one-third of our directors are female. In 
2020, Broadcom was recognized for achieving 
gender balance at the highest ranks of its 
leadership corps by the 2020 Women on 
Boards organization. The award—a Winning 
“W” —recognizes public corporations achieving 
20% or higher female representation on their 
corporate boards. Board of 
Directors67%
male33%
female33%
asian56%
White/Caucasian11%
hispanic
1.  Defined as Black, African American, Hispanic, Latino, Asian, Pacific Islander, Native American, Native 
Hawaiian, or Alaska Native, or who self-identifies as gay, lesbian, bisexual, or transgender.
23
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT soCial i mPaCTbenefits that we offer include, depending on location:
• Healthcare benefits (e.g., 
medical, dental, vision);
• Employee Assistance 
Programs (EAP);
• Health Savings Accounts 
(HSA) and Flexible Spending 
Accounts (FSA); 
• Insurance and income 
protection (e.g., Life, Accidental 
Death and Disability);• Retirement and savings plans;
• Time-off programs (e.g., flexible 
time-off, vacation, holidays, 
bereavement and various other 
leaves of absence), including, 
in response to COVID-19, 
increased sick-leave flexibility;
• Employee Stock Purchase 
Plans (ESPP), available to the 
substantial majority of our 
employees;• Subsidized on premise cafes, 
featuring healthy dietary 
options including vegetarian 
and, in many cases halal, 
options and meal vouchers;
• On-premise exercise centers;
• Wellness and prayer/
meditation rooms;
• Matching employee charitable 
gift donations;• Educational assistance 
program; and
• 401(k) employee contribution 
matching program and 
retirement readiness 
counselling.We believe in
Paying for performance
Motivating employees
Sharing in our successWe believe in paying for performance, that 
employees should be motivated to help the 
company succeed, and that they should share 
in that success. As a result, performance-
based compensation and equity awards 
are key components of our compensation 
philosophy. We provide highly competitive 
and comprehensive compensation and 
benefits to our employees, which we review 
regularly to assess and ensure market 
competitiveness. In addition, we grant equity 
to the vast majority of our employees. Our 
broad-based equity program is one of our 
core differentiators for employees and is, 
we believe, a driver of performance for our 
stockholders. It is also an important retention 
mechanism in tight labor markets where 
competition for top talent is fierce. As part of our equity planning process, managers 
are encouraged to give more equity to our 
highest performing employees. 
Performance-based compensation forms 
part of the overall compensation package 
for every single one of our employees. 
Every member of our global workforce is 
eligible to participate in one or more of our 
performance-based compensation programs, 
including performance-based equity 
awards for our executives, our annual cash 
performance bonus plan, sales incentive plans 
and spot bonuses.
We provide a range of non-salary benefits to 
our employees, including part-time employees, 
and review our benefits programs annually. Our 
benefits programs vary by country, to reflect local market practice and employee needs, but 
are designed to provide protection, peace of 
mind and flexibility to support our employees 
in building a balanced life and secure future at 
work and at home. Our benefit programs also 
help to attract and retain qualified, experienced 
and talented employees.Compensation and Benefits
24
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT soCial i mPaCTOur workplace policies and programs are 
also designed to be flexible to accommodate 
ethnic, cultural and religious needs and 
practices. For example, our dress codes are 
generally business casual, and do not include 
any restrictions impacting ethnic, cultural or 
religious norms, such as with regard to hair 
style, facial hair and head coverings (other than 
in our labs or fabs where protective clothing 
may be required).
Through our educational assistance program, 
which is available to all employees, including 
part-time employees, we provide employees with 
financial assistance to take external academic 
classes or relevant degree programs in order to complete a program that is work-related and 
provides knowledge and skills to enhance their 
job performance. During FY20, we reimbursed 
employees for approximately $560,000 in 
tuition expenses under this program. 
Helping our employees prepare for a secure 
retirement is also important to us, especially in 
countries, such as the U.S., where there is limited 
public retirement funding. As a result, in the 
U.S., in addition to our highly competitive 401(k) 
employee contribution matching program, we 
provide employees with extensive financial 
planning and retirement readiness resources 
both directly and through our retirement plan 
administrator, Fidelity. 
PREPARING FOR A SECURE RETIREMENT
During FY20, over 
1,300 employees  
attended retirement webinars and web 
workshops and approximately 
500 employees 
engaged directly with a Fidelity financial 
planning consultant or representative 
regarding their retirement planning.EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM FY20
~$560,000 
in tuition 
expenses 
reimbursed
25
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT soCial i mPaCTTraining and Development
Our compensation programs are structured 
so that managers have multiple opportunities 
throughout the year to provide regular 
performance feedback to their team members. 
Our annual salary review, focal equity awards, 
promotion and career progression decisions 
and bonus determinations each happen 
in different fiscal quarters, and managers 
are required to evaluate team members’ 
performance with each such cycle. 
We provide structured, job-specific technical 
training and testing for our manufacturing and 
operational employees, to assist employees 
in keeping their skills up to date. We also 
provide numerous technical product and other 
trainings to our Sales personnel. In addition, 
each business unit has the ability to establish 
its own training and development programs, 
including intern and mentorship programs.executive Compensation
The Compensation Committee of our Board 
oversees the compensation of our executives, 
other than our CEO, and provides general 
oversight of our compensation structure, 
including our equity compensation program, 
and the Board oversees the compensation of 
our CEO and non-employee directors, with 
input from the Compensation Committee. A 
full description of our director and executive 
compensation programs is available in our 
Proxy Statement for our 2021 annual meeting 
of stockholders (2021 Proxy Statement) . 
Stockholders representing 80% of the shares 
of our common stock present and voting on 
the matter, voted in favor of our executive 
compensation say-on-pay proposal at our 
2020 annual meeting of stockholders.Pay e quity
As part of our effort to ensure employee 
equality and pay equity, during FY20, we 
engaged a third-party firm to conduct a pay 
equity evaluation focusing on subsets of our 
global population, including the United States. 
As a testament to our robust pay practices, 
this evaluation revealed that pay was equitable 
for over 99% of the employees reviewed, after 
accounting for factors such as job category, 
location, time in role and performance. 
  Broadcom 2021 Proxy Statement
During FY20, our employees and  
contractors completed a total of over 
159,000 assigned 
learning hours  
on a wide variety of topics.
26
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT soCial i mPaCTEmployee Health and Safety
We believe that maintaining a safe and 
healthy work environment is important 
for the well-being and productivity of our 
employees, who are our most important 
asset. Our environmental, health, and safety 
(EHS) policies  and management system are 
designed to foster workplaces that are safe and 
healthy, environmentally responsible and which 
promote good physical and mental health. 
ehs management s ystem
Our globally implemented EHS management 
system and processes are aligned with the 
ISO 14001 standard for all of our facilities, 
and we have achieved third party ISO 14001 
certification  at certain of our sites. To promote 
EHS compliance across Broadcom facilities, 
we assign Site Coordinators and develop site-
specific EHS Compliance Plans that consider 
local operations, conditions, environmental 
impacts and legal requirements. EHS 
Compliance Plan implementation is tracked 
and regularly reported to senior management. 
These plans and processes are promptly rolled 
out to new or acquired sites and recently hired 
personnel, including our acquisition of the 
Symantec enterprise business at the beginning 
of FY20.Communication and Training
Our comprehensive EHS intranet site provides 
global and local Broadcom EHS information 
to our employees. This includes EHS training 
materials, emergency action plans, a First 
Report of Injury (FROI) system, EHS Compliance 
Plans, and documented EHS programs, 
procedures, guidelines, and self-inspection 
checklists. We also provide online and classroom 
training to help our employees understand their 
responsibilities and the resources available to 
them, including the following:
• Mandatory health and safety training, or 
manufacturing site-specific EHS training, for 
new employees. Manufacturing site-specific 
training is provided to employees at our 
semiconductor manufacturing and laboratory 
sites on topics such as chemical safety and 
hazard communication, electrical safety, oil 
spill prevention control and countermeasures, 
confined space entry, fall protection, 
hazardous waste management, laser safety, 
lock out/tag out, noise and powered  
industrial truck safety, as applicable.• Ergonomics training is available to all 
employees, in addition to office ergonomics 
set-up and troubleshooting guides 
and individual ergonomic workstation 
assessments. 
• Medical Emergency Response Team (MERT) 
training in first aid, CPR, AEDs and other 
emergency procedures, is provided to our 
volunteer MERT members, established at 
the majority of our facilities, as part of our 
emergency action plans.
Our globally implemented EHS management system and processes 
are aligned with the ISO 14001 standard for all of our facilitiesISO 
14001
27
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT soCial i mPaCThealth and s afety Performance
In the U.S., we require that any occupational 
injury or illness be immediately reported 
through our web based FROI system. At our 
international sites, workplace incidents are 
reported to an on-site EHS staff member or 
HR, as applicable at the relevant site. Incident 
investigations and root cause analyses are 
conducted, as appropriate, to determine 
appropriate corrective and preventive actions. 
Our semiconductor manufacturing and 
laboratory operations represent our most 
significant health and safety risks, due to 
higher potential exposure to chemicals and 
machinery-related hazards at such sites. 
Continued focus on the management and 
reduction of these risks has helped us maintain 
total case rates and lost-time cases below U.S. 
national averages.
Over the last five years, our total U.S. 
occupational injury and illness lost-time case rates have been significantly below the U.S. 
Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) occupational 
injury and illness incidence rate averages for 
the semiconductors, computer system design 
and software publishers industries in which we 
operate.1 In FY20, we had 12 recordable cases2 
and three lost workday cases representing 
a total of 193 lost workdays in the U.S. We 
calculate lost days as calendar days and that 
begins the day after the injury/illness occurs. 
In FY20, our total injury and illness case rate 
in the U.S. was 0.11 cases per 100 employees, 
which was a 24% decrease compared to FY19. 
Our lost workday case rate in the U.S. was 
0.03 cases per 100 employees, which was 
a 43% decrease from our fiscal year ended 
November 3, 2019 (FY19). For the past five 
years, we have seen a decrease of 76% in total 
injury and illness case rates and a decrease 
of 75% in lost workday cases. There were no 
work-related fatalities globally in FY20. Work-related fatalities globally in FY20: 
ZeroFY20 injury and illness case rate in the U.S.:
24%
decrease compared to FY19 
For the past five years:
76%
decrease in total injury and illness case rates
75%
decrease in lost workday cases
1. The U.S. occupational injury and illness lost-time case data includes cases that occurred in our acquired companies or businesses from and after the time of their acquisition by Broadcom. 
2.  A “recordable case” is an occupational injury or illness resulting from an accident or exposure in the workplace that requires medical treatment beyond first aid, causes loss of consciousness or death, 
requires prescribed prescription medication, or results in lost or restricted workdays.
28
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT soCial i mPaCTCovid -19 ehs i nitiatives
• Developed and deployed global COVID-19 
awareness training and protocols to all 
employees and contractors.
• Provisioned masks, gloves, hand sanitizers and 
disinfecting cleaning supplies for all on-site 
personnel, and mandated that personnel wear 
masks on site.
• Provided testing via company provided 
at-home kits (in the U.S.) or expense 
reimbursement (globally) to all employees 
scheduled to work on site.
• Manual and app-based contract tracing, 
including deploying our connect@broadcom 
cell phone application at most sites, which 
requires employees to take a daily COVID-19 
health survey prior to accessing the site.
• Implemented internal traffic flows to ensure 
social distancing.
• Deployment of thermal scanning cameras 
and infrared contactless thermometers at all 
locations upon entry into and exit from each 
facility.
• Implementation of rotating split shifts, 
reconfigured work spaces (including by 
installing plastic and plexiglass barriers and 
leasing additional work space) and revised 
seating assignments to reduce employee 
density in our facilities and promote social 
distancing.
• Significantly enhanced cleaning protocols, 
including frequent intraday sanitization of high 
contact common areas and surfaces multiple 
times a day, daily electrostatic disinfection 
of common areas and conference rooms in many of our locations, and specialty cleaning/ 
disinfecting teams, as needed.
•  Increased flexibility around time off, remote 
work, and/or sick leave in many locations to 
help ensure employees who may have been 
exposed do not come into work.
• Provided mental health support to our 
employees through our EAP, various health 
insurance provider sponsored initiatives, and 
meditation workshops.
• Implementation of contactless or low contact 
meal options and contactless payment 
systems for on-site cafes.
•  Deployment of portable HEPA filtration units 
for conference rooms and limiting the number 
of people permitted in a conference room at a 
time.
• Adjustment of HVAC systems to meet American 
Society of Heating and Air-Conditioning 
Engineers’ guidance, which includes maximizing 
outdoor air, increasing ventilation to 24/7, using 
MERV 13 or higher filters.
•  Preparation and implementation of legally 
required site COVID-19 work plans, risk 
assessments and audits.
•  Eliminated travel for business purposes.
•  Prohibited visitors (except those needed for 
critical site or fab operations).
•  Utilized additional security and janitorial staff to 
support Broadcom’s COVID-19 Mitigation Policy, 
including enforcement of our current prohibition 
on site visits by non-Broadcom personnel and 
rules regarding mandatory mask wearing.health and s afety d uring C ovid -19 
During FY20, a substantial amount of our 
EHS efforts were focused on keeping our 
employees healthy during the COVID-19 
pandemic. While the vast majority of our 
employees worked remotely for varying 
portions of the year, as part of the “essential 
critical infrastructure” as determined by the 
Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security 
Agency of the Department of Homeland 
Security, we maintained continuous on-site 
operations with essential employees during 
the pandemic to ensure business continuity. To 
mitigate the occupational health risks to these 
employees, and to all our other employees as 
they returned to work on-site, we took many 
proactive measures to protect them, overseen 
by our executive-level COVID-19 response 
steering committee. In addition to deploying 
our COVID-19 Mitigation Policy and sending 
extensive employee communications, we 
took additional protective measures. These 
measures were adopted in consultation with 
an industrial hygienist to ensure that they 
were taken in compliance with government 
mandated safety protocols and industry 
standards. The COVID-19 situation changes 
rapidly and we review and adopt processes 
and measures as applicable.
29
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT soCial i mPaCTInvesting in Our Communities
As part of our ethos of connecting everything , 
we engage with and support the local 
communities where we work, live and source 
from. We focus our philanthropic efforts on 
areas of need that align to our business priorities, 
such as promoting educational opportunities 
in the STEM fields to help develop the next 
generation of engineers, and on causes 
prioritized by our employees. In FY20, our 
philanthropic efforts also targeted organizations 
focused on COVID-19 relief. We and our 
employees are proud to support many charitable 
organizations globally, including United Way, 
Second Harvest and various prominent 
healthcare and medical-research charities. 
For 2020, Broadcom committed to match, 
on a dollar-for dollar basis, over $580,000 in 
donations made by our employees to charities 
and non-profit organizations around the world.sTem and o ther a ctivities
Employees in our Global Technology 
Organization have collaborated to help 
hundreds of young STEM learners, while 
simultaneously reducing our environmental 
impact, by refurbishing corporate laptops 
that are removed from service and donated 
by us. Our information-technology staff 
members contribute their time and skills 
to extend the life of these computers, 
which would otherwise be destined for 
e-waste recyclers and provide the devices 
to educational charities and schools. Since 
2018, we have donated over 2,800 laptop 
computers to various schools and educational 
non-profit organizations.Our corporate philanthropic efforts in India 
also support educational causes. Over the 
past three fiscal years (2018-2020), we have 
given almost 100 million INR (more than $1.3 
million) to Indian charitable causes, with much 
of it targeting programs that foster STEM 
learning among economically disadvantaged 
populations, such as: 
• the Agastya International Foundation, whose 
mission is to spark curiosity, nurture creativity 
and instill confidence in Indian children and 
teachers through hands-on science education 
and project-based learning;
• the Foundation for Excellence, which 
provides college scholarships to students 
who show promise in the technological and 
engineering fields; 
• the IRIS National Fair, which nurtures science 
and scientific research among young Indian 
innovators; 
• the Indian Institute of Science, which is India’s 
premier institution for advanced scientific and 
technological research and education; and 
• the Akshaya Patra Foundation, which provides 
school lunches to millions of Indian children.
2,800 
laptop computers  
donated to various schools and educational 
non-profit organizations since 2018.
30
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT soCial i mPaCTCovid -19 r esponse a ctivities
In FY20, we contributed substantial resources 
to the COVID-19 pandemic response in 
several localities where we operate. Our 
largest donations included:
• $100,000 to the City of 
Fort Collins, Colorado, 
home to our largest 
manufacturing facility, 
to support child-care 
services for police, 
firefighters and other 
first responders so they 
could remain on the job; 
• RM2 million 
(approximately 
$475,000) to the relief 
fund Tabung COVID-19 
in Malaysia, the site of 
our global distribution 
warehouse, to provide 
financial aid for 
hospitalized COVID-19 
patients, those undergoing medical 
surveillance or quarantine and others who 
were unemployed or disadvantaged; and
• 1,000 N95 respirators to the Lehigh Valley 
Hospital in Allentown, Pennsylvania, which 
services a region where we maintain 
multiple facilities, and an additional 1,600 
N95 respirators that were distributed by 
our employees to healthcare providers in 
various Northern California localities near 
our corporate headquarters.
We made additional donations totaling 
$800,000 in support of the COVID-19 
pandemic response after the end of FY20. 
We are also proud of our 
collaborative relationship with 
the Broadcom Foundation, 
a non-profit established in 
2009 and fully funded by $100 
million in donations from our 
subsidiary Broadcom Corp.
The mission of the Foundation is to advance 
STEM education by recognizing scholarship 
and increasing opportunity, and it focuses on 
closing the STEM education gap for women 
and underrepresented youth and helping 
them develop 21st century skills. Cultivation 
of academic interest in, and providing 
equitable access to, these areas of knowledge, 
and preparing students to be college and 
career-ready to succeed in STEM fields is 
key to creating the engineers, scientists and 
innovators of tomorrow.
With annual program grants of over $4 million, 
the Foundation strategically collaborates with 
non-governmental organizations, universities 
and community non-profit organizations 
worldwide to inspire and empower young 
people through team building and project-
based programs that help prepare them to 
enter careers in STEM fields.Foundation-supported programs include 
regional and national science fairs, coding 
programs and competitions and after/out-of-
school education programs designed to develop 
critical thinking, creativity, collaboration and 
communication, with an emphasis on building 
social infrastructures for STEM-minded youth. 
Many of these events are held in close proximity 
to Broadcom offices–for example, in San Mateo 
County and Orange County in California, 
Fort Collins in Colorado, Gwinnett County 
in Georgia, and Bangalore, India–enabling 
Broadcom employees to volunteer their time to 
judge competitions, mentor young people and 
participate in STEM education programs.
BROADCOM FOUNDATION ANNUAL GRANTS
Over $4 million#SILICON VALLEY STRONG
We donated 
$500,000 
to the Silicon 
Valley Strong 
Fund to help 
individuals and 
families in need 
of food and 
shelter in the 
communities 
that surround 
our San Jose, 
California, 
headquarters.
31
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT soCial i mPaCTThe f oundation’s 
signature programs 
include the b roadcom 
masTers® (Math, Applied 
Science, Technology 
and Engineering for 
Rising Stars), the premier 
middle school science 
and engineering fair 
competition in the United 
States. In 2020, the 
Broadcom MASTERS® 
prize winners included:• a 12-year-old girl from New York who conducted research 
into the role of retinal fatigue in color optical illusions;
• a 14-year-old boy from California who developed a glove 
that could convert sign language into text or speech;
• a 14-year-old boy from New York who demonstrated 
how a mathematical algorithm could be used to redraw 
the boundaries of gerrymandered voting districts; 
• a 14-year-old girl from Florida who researched gender 
bias in the development of painkillers; and
• a 14-year-old girl from New Jersey who tested coating 
materials that could be used on the hull of cargo ships 
to improve energy efficiency and limit the transfer of 
invasive species.
In addition, the Broadcom Foundation 
manages a relief reserve that from year to 
year enables it to identify and address a 
critical need such as a natural disaster. In 
2020, the Foundation donated $120,000 to 
various organizations, including the Orange 
County Community Foundation, for COVID-19 
response activities and also provided financial 
support to address the needs of first-
responders and victims of wildfires in the 
Western United States.Other signature programs include the 
Broadcom MASTERS® International and the 
Raspberry Pi “Coolest Projects” competitions  
in North America and Malaysia.
BROADCOM FOUNDATION RELIEF RESERVE
$120,000 donated
to various organizations for disaster  
and pandemic relief
32
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT soCial i mPaCTWe are committed to supporting ethical 
business conduct and the responsible sourcing 
of materials throughout our global supply 
chain. To that end, we have established high 
standards for our suppliers to improve our 
supply chain and positively impact the world 
around us, while building better technology. 
We outsource most of our manufacturing and 
strive to work with responsible supply chain 
partners that are leaders in the industry and 
that have the technology, quality and resources 
needed to support our business. At the same 
time, we recognize that our supply chain 
has wider social and environmental impacts. 
Our supply chain is global and complex, 
but it also needs to be reliable, resilient and 
flexible enough to deal with unexpected 
disruptions, as has been the case this year with 
the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. The 
global spread of COVID-19 and the measures 
taken to combat it, affected our workforce and operations, and those of our customers, 
contract manufacturers, suppliers and logistics 
providers. This resulted in some disruption 
to parts of our global semiconductor supply 
chain, particularly during periods when facilities 
of key suppliers and service providers were 
impacted or operated at reduced capacity. 
Throughout the pandemic we have worked 
closely with our suppliers and service providers 
in their efforts to safeguard their employees’ 
health, while also ensuring continued supply of 
products and services. 
supply Chain m anagement 
Our Supplier Code  is based in part on the 
International Labour Organization principles 
and is the foundation of our responsible 
sourcing practices. Our Supplier Code 
establishes our expectations regarding 
workplace standards and business practices 
for our suppliers and mandates that our suppliers comply with the law and conduct 
business in an ethical, legal and responsible 
manner—including with respect to labor 
and human rights, health and safety, the 
environment and anti-corruption. 
In addition to our Supplier Code , our 
Statement Against Slavery and Human 
Trafficking , Conflict Minerals Policy , supplier 
onboarding procedures and contract and 
purchase order terms establish the standards 
and expectations for our suppliers regarding 
human rights-related issues.
  Broadcom Supplier Environmental and Social 
Responsibility Code of ConductSupply Chain Responsibilitybroadcom is committed to  
supporting ethical business conduct 
and the responsible sourcing of 
materials throughout our global 
supply chain. We have established 
high standards for our suppliers 
to improve our supply chain and 
positively impact the world around 
us while building better technology. 
  Broadcom Statement 
Against Slavery and 
Human Trafficking  Broadcom Conflict 
Minerals Policy
33
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT soCial i mPaCTrespecting h uman r ights in o ur supply Chain 
Respecting human rights throughout our 
company, operations, supply chain and 
communities is important to our business.  
We are committed to complying with 
applicable labor laws, including wage and  hour laws, and we expect our business 
partners to do the same. We expect our 
suppliers to acknowledge and implement  
the Supplier Code  and abide by the terms  
and conditions contained in our contracts  
and purchase orders, which includes prohibiting the use of child labor, forced  
labor, slavery or human trafficking.
We also comply with the U.S. federal 
government’s requirements for government 
contractors, as set forth in our internal 
Broadcom Combating Trafficking in Persons 
Compliance Plan, and with the California 
Transparency in Supply Chains Act and the 
U.K. Modern Slavery Act.
In FY20, we undertook several initiatives 
to strengthen our human rights program, 
including: 
• conducting an internal human rights 
assessment of our operations (during which 
we found no human rights-related issues); 
• updating all of our recruiter agreements, 
globally, to include provisions related to 
preventing forced labor, such as prohibiting 
recruiting fees, deceptive and misleading 
recruitment practices and destroying, 
concealing or denying access to employees’ 
identification documents; 
• updating our Master Supplier Agreement  
and purchase order terms to require 
compliance with all laws and regulations 
related to slavery, forced labor, child labor 
and human trafficking and adherence to  
our Supplier Code  to protect workers’ rights; 
• updating our supplier onboarding process  
to increase screening for human rights-
related matters; and 
• including our significant suppliers in our 
continuous monitoring program to screen  
for emerging human rights issues. In FY20, we achieved a 100% 
completion rate for combating 
trafficking in persons training and 
prevention of forced labor training 100%
Preventing f orced l abor Training
As part of our ongoing efforts to manage issues related to human rights, including raising 
awareness of and preventing forced labor and human trafficking, relevant employees 
in our Global Operations, HR, Legal, IT, Procurement, and Supply Chain functions and 
our employees working with our U.S. government customers, participate in combating 
trafficking in persons training and prevention of forced labor training, as applicable, on an 
annual basis. We achieved a 100% completion rate for this training in FY20. 
34
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT soCial i mPaCTour Policy on Conflict m inerals 
As is common in the semiconductor industry, 
we and our suppliers utilize minerals in 
the manufacturing of our products, such 
as cassiterite, columbite-tantalite, gold, 
wolframite, and/or their derivatives, tin, 
tantalum and tungsten (conflict minerals).  
We are committed to socially responsible 
sourcing of conflict minerals included in our 
products. It is our goal to not directly or 
indirectly finance or benefit armed groups  
in the Democratic Republic of the Congo  
or adjoining countries, while continuing  
to support 
responsible sourcing 
of these minerals in 
the region.
We strive to continuously improve and refine 
our supply chain due diligence program 
consistent with the framework promulgated 
by the Organization for Economic Cooperation 
and Development (OECD), and we expect  
and encourage our suppliers to do so as well.
We conduct diligence on all our suppliers, 
smelters, and refiners every year, and publicly 
disclose the results and our conflict minerals 
diligence program approach through our 
annual Conflict Minerals Report filed with the 
SEC. For more information, see our Conflict 
Minerals Policy . industry Collaboration in Pursuit of r esponsible m ineral sourcing 
Since 2014, we have been a member of the 
Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI) , and  
we leverage the RMI’s resources to conduct 
our supply chain due diligence, including  
RMI’s database of suppliers that are listed  
on the Responsible Minerals Assurance 
Process (RMAP) Conformant Smelter List.  
We strongly support our industry’s efforts  
to expand the smelter certification 
program and the audit process.
In 2019 (the most recent year for which 
complete data is available), 96% (272 out 
of 283) of our smelters and refiners (SORs) were certified “conflict free” under the  
RMAP audit process, compared to 84% 
(260 out of 308) in 2018. This substantial 
improvement is due to our on-going efforts 
to identify conflict minerals risks in our 
supply chain, to contact those SORs who 
are not RMAP-conformant and encourage 
them to undergo an independent third-
party audit, and to encourage our suppliers 
to purchase materials only from SORs that  
are certified as “conflict free” in compliance 
with RMAP protocols.  Broadcom Conflict 
Minerals PolicyIn 2019
96%
 of smelters and refiners 
reviewed in our supply  
chain were certified  
"conflict free"
35
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT soCial i mPaCTengaging o ur suppliers 
As a primarily outsourced manufacturer, it is 
challenging to have complete visibility into our 
multi-tier supply chain. However, we regularly 
engage with our suppliers on a variety of 
topics, and in FY20, we conducted a survey 
with significant suppliers for human rights-
related issues. We identified 68 suppliers with 
which we spent over $1 million in FY19 and 
who operate in the Asia-Pacific region. These 
suppliers, which represent over 80% of our 
FY19 supplier spend, were asked to complete 
a questionnaire on core human rights issues, 
including numerous topics addressed by the 
RBA’s Self-Assessment Questionnaire and 
Code of Conduct, designed to help us better 
understand potential and significant risk for 
incidents of forced labor or human rights 
abuses in our supply chain. We achieved a 
100% survey response rate. 
We found no instances of forced labor, child 
labor, slavery or human trafficking, as a 
result of this survey. However, we did identify four suppliers who use fines to discipline 
employees, which are legally permissible in 
their respective jurisdictions and are part 
of an escalating disciplinary process, and 
one supplier that does not permit collective 
bargaining. No other significant human 
rights risks were identified during the survey. 
While these activities are permissible in the 
suppliers’ respective jurisdictions, they do not 
align to Broadcom’s expectations, and we 
intend to actively engage with these particular 
suppliers on these issues and with our other 
suppliers, as appropriate, to encourage them 
to improve their human rights practices and 
programs. We also intend to make human 
rights training available to our various 
suppliers, particularly those who indicated 
they do not currently provide such training.
In addition to the supplier survey, in FY20, we 
also audited three of our significant suppliers, 
including with regard to core human rights 
issues, and no human rights-related concerns 
were identified.
supplier d iversity
We also consider the diversity of the 
suppliers we work with. We seek to 
source goods and services from small 
and disadvantaged businesses, as 
well as (but not limited to) minority-
owned, woman-owned, historically 
underutilized businesses, veteran-
owned and service-disabled veteran-
owned businesses that are able to 
provide quality goods and services 
in a timely and competitive manner. 
We also routinely include women- and 
minority-owned firms in our corporate 
debt financing syndicates.
  For more information on our supplier 
diversity initiatives, please contact 
supplier.diversity@broadcom.com. 
In FY20 we surveyed on human 
rights-related issues with our 
suppliers that represented over 80% 
of our FY19 supplier spend. Through 
this assessment, we found no 
instances of forced labor, child labor, 
slavery or human trafficking among 
Broadcom's suppliers
36
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT soCial i mPaCTGovernance
We are dedicated to uncompromising 
integrity in our business and to maintaining 
the highest standards of business conduct 
and ethics across our worldwide operations 
and locations. Our corporate governance 
framework is designed to support the 
best interests of our company, employees, 
stockholders and other stakeholders. 
We have strong policies and standards 
designed to promote compliance with 
applicable laws and provide accountability 
within our company.
37
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT governan CeCorporate Governance and Board Oversight 
Evaluating Broadcom’s material business risks 
and enterprise risk management practices is 
an important area of our Board’s oversight 
function. Our senior management team 
regularly reviews and discusses with the Board 
the types of risks our company faces, the 
measures in place to address these risks and 
the effectiveness of those measures. 
overseeing esg
Our Board consists of four standing committees: 
the Audit Committee, the Compensation 
Committee, the Nominating, Corporate 
Governance and ESG Committee (NCGC) 
and the Executive Committee. The NCGC is 
responsible for reviewing and reporting to the 
Board on matters of corporate responsibility and 
sustainability, including potential long and short-
term trends and impacts to our business of ESG 
issues, and our public reporting on these topics. 
The feedback we receive from our stakeholders 
on ESG matters is regularly communicated to 
the NCGC. The NCGC reviewed this inaugural 
ESG report and will review the ESG report on an 
annual basis moving forward. The NCGC, in turn, 
reports regularly to the Board on ESG matters, 
which also reviews our annual ESG Report.Broadcom’s nine-member board of directors, 
of which seven are independent, is led by 
Chairman Henry Samueli, Ph.D. and Lead 
Independent Director, Eddy Hartenstein. A 
full description of the Board’s responsibilities, 
director biographies, nomination, and 
compensation practices are available in our 
2021 Proxy Statement. At the executive-level, 
our ESG Steering Committee has responsibility 
for ESG matters globally and oversees 
alignment between our ESG efforts and our 
overarching business objectives. 
Our ESG Steering Committee, led by our Chief 
Financial Officer in FY20, includes executive 
and senior leaders in global operations, 
including Supply Chain and Procurement, 
Manufacturing, HR, Legal, Sales, Workplace 
Services, Finance, Ethics and Governance, IT 
and Data Privacy and Investor Relations. The 
ESG Steering Committee meets regularly, 
provides status updates to the NCGC and 
the Board, and also engages with our ESG 
Working Groups, which champion our ESG 
initiatives across the company. 
Governance 
Highlights7 of our 9 
board members are independent and compose  
our a udit, Compensation, and n ominating,  
Corporate g overnance & esg  committees33%
of our b oard members  
are female44%
of our b oard members are 
from under-represented 
ethnic minoritiesbroadcom’s esg  governance s tructure
Together, our Board, NCGC, ESG 
Steering Committee and ESG Working 
Groups underpin our strategic 
approach to managing actual and 
potential impacts of material ESG 
topic-related risks and opportunities 
for Broadcom’s businesses, strategy 
and financial planning, over the short-, 
medium- and long-term.
board of d irectors
nominating, Corporate g overnance  
and esg Committee
esg steering Committee
esg Working g roups
ethics and g overnance
finance
Commercial
human r esources
legalglobal o perations & 
manufacturing
investor r elations
iT & d ata Privacy
Workplace s ervices
38
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT governan CeStakeholder Engagement
We engage with our stakeholders, including 
investors, customers, employees, suppliers, 
public policy makers, communities, non-
governmental organizations and industry 
bodies, through a variety of avenues to collect 
valuable input on a variety of issues, including 
ESG matters. 
For example, our CEO and CFO engage our 
investors throughout the year, and our Lead 
Independent Director conducts an annual 
stockholder outreach effort to a large number of 
our stockholders and their ESG teams. In FY20, 
we continued our stockholder engagement, 
contacting stockholders owning over 60% of 
our then outstanding stock for engagement, 
and engaging with stockholders owning 
approximately 46% of our then outstanding 
stock. This resulted in discussions between our 
largest stockholders and our Lead Independent 
Director on a variety of topics, including ESG 
matters. In addition, members of our senior 
management team engage with investors 
regularly throughout the year on a variety 
of issues, including ESG and other emerging 
topics. During our materiality assessment, which 
we describe on page 11 , we considered our 
investors’ perspectives on our ESG issues as 
part of the topic ranking and validation process. 
Ultimately, engaging our investors, as well as our 
diverse other stakeholders, helps us prioritize 
key ESG matters.
Engaging our investors, as well as our diverse other 
stakeholders, helps us prioritize key ESG matters.
39
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT governan CeStakeholder FY20 Interactions
Investors • Annual stockholder outreach program led by our Lead Independent 
Director
• One-on-one calls with investors on ESG topics; regularly scheduled  
and ad hoc• Quarterly CEO and/or CFO investor meetings 
• Annual stockholders’ meeting, quarterly earnings webcasts, press 
releases and SEC filings
Customers • Requests for information on product regulatory compliance and  
supply chain surveys
• Customer education and training events, such as our mainframe 
customer employee resident training program
• Customer satisfaction and loyalty surveys, including through the  
use of Net Promotor Score methodologies• Quarterly business reviews, targeted discussions/user groups
• Annual Conflict Minerals Report
• Annual Broadcom Statement Against Slavery and Human 
Trafficking
Global 
Workforce• Quarterly CEO global “coffee talks”, as well as Business Unit coffee talks
• Quarterly global employee newsletters 
• Onboarding and training, both online and in-person, on a variety  
of topics
• Comprehensive annual online training and targeted in-person training 
on topical matters and in “high-risk” locations• Confidential ethics and compliance hotline (also available to third 
parties) and Ethics & Integrity intranet resources
• Employee Ethical Culture Survey
• Regular performance reviews or feedback
• Implemented health and safety measures to assist employees in 
returning to in-person work during the COVID-19 pandemic
Suppliers • Direct outreach on issues related to product regulatory compliance, 
elimination of conflict minerals that are not responsibly sourced from 
our supply chain, and compliance with Broadcom’s Supplier Code  • Human rights survey of significant suppliers in the Asia Pacific region
• Supplier outreach during the COVID-19 pandemic shutdowns to 
support continuity of supply and safe re-opening of supplier facilities
Government/  
Public Policy• Proactive policy engagement and outreach with officials at all levels 
of government, including executive, legislative and regulatory offices
• Partnered with industry peers to advocate opening 6GHz band for 
next-gen 5G services 
• Hosted FCC Chairman for information sessions on Broadcom’s  
5G capabilities • Briefed Members of Congress and government officials on 
Broadcom, our operations, and our significance as a U.S.-based 
company, employing thousands of individuals globally 
•  Contributions to federal election campaigns through the Broadcom 
Political Action Committee (PAC).
Communities, 
Nongovernmental 
Organizations and 
Industry Bodies• Charitable employee donation matching program
• Broadcom Foundation supports STEM education, including its annual 
Broadcom MASTERS middle school science fair competition in the 
U.S. and internationally
•  Investment in communities where we have locations, including 
donations to assist people affected by the COVID-19 pandemic • Interactions with local governments to receive approval and update 
community members on any facility construction
• Member of the Semiconductor Industry Association, the Responsible 
Mineral Initiative, the Cybersecurity Coalition, the U.S. Chamber of 
Commerce, the Center for Information Policy Leadership and the 
European Internet ForumThe following chart lists our various stakeholder groups and examples of ways in which we engaged with them during FY20. 
40
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT governan CeEthics and Integrity 
As a global infrastructure technology 
leader, our success is due to our innovation, 
engineering excellence and financial 
discipline. But it is also due to our unwavering 
commitment to doing business the right way. 
We are committed to a transparent corporate 
culture and to maintaining the highest 
standards of business conduct and ethics in 
all of our worldwide operations and locations. 
This means always striving to operate with 
uncompromising integrity in everything that 
we do, and in compliance with the law. We all 
share the responsibility of making business 
ethics, integrity, and compliance part of the 
daily fabric of Broadcom, which ultimately 
enables the long-term success of our global 
business. Our policies prohibit illegal or 
unethical behavior by our employees and our 
business partners. fostering a s peak u p Culture 
We strive to create an environment where 
employees can speak openly about our 
business practices, including ESG-related 
matters. We have an Open Door Policy  and 
communicate regularly with our employees 
on ethics and integrity matters and strongly 
encourage our employees to ask questions 
about our policies, seek guidance on specific 
situations, and report concerns. We provide a 
number of avenues for employees to contact 
the Ethics & Integrity Team, our Compliance 
Officer or the Audit Committee, including via 
our third-party Compliance Hotline (available in 
multiple languages), through which employees, 
contractors, suppliers and all other third parties 
can report concerns anonymously (where 
permitted by local law) via telephone or on-
line. We also make it very clear that retaliation 
against any employee for raising a concern in 
good faith is prohibited. We take inquiries and concerns 
seriously, handle them promptly, 
investigate to the extent necessary and 
take disciplinary actions as appropriate. 
To promote the highest levels of ethics 
and compliance, we address concerns 
in a variety of ways, including through 
senior management discussions, employee 
communications, process and controls 
improvements and, where appropriate, 
individual corrective action measures.
The Audit Committee receives information on 
every reported allegation, as well as regular 
reports of statistics related to inquiries and 
updates on investigations that are in progress 
or completed.
broadcom’s Code of e thics and b usiness Conduct 
Broadcom’s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct  (the Code) sets 
out the standards of excellence that we expect in the conduct of 
our business. The Code applies to all of our officers, directors, and 
employees and we expect all third parties we do business with, 
including consultants, contractors, business partners and other 
service providers, to act in a manner consistent with our Code. 
Our Code is publicly available on our website and is also available 
to our employees in numerous languages.  Broadcom’s Code 
of Ethics and 
Business Conduct
41
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT governan Ceaddressing Concerns
In FY20, we received inquiries on a range of 
topics, including human resource matters, 
conflicts of interest concerns and expense 
policy violations, all of which were reviewed 
and evaluated in accordance with the practices 
described above. This level of engagement 
from our employees demonstrates that our 
training programs and policies afford our 
employees the opportunity to raise concerns 
and provide input on ways to improve our 
policies, initiatives and programs. 
 In addition, during FY20, we conducted our 
second Employee Ethical Culture Survey, which 
we intend to conduct regularly. The results 
of these surveys are discussed with senior 
management and our Audit Committee and 
reported to the Board. In our FY19 and FY20 
surveys, we scored above the survey’s company 
peer group benchmark in all categories, 
indicating that our employees believe in the 
strength of our compliance program and the 
integrity of our senior management.
ENGAGING WITH OUR EMPLOYEES ON ETHICS AND INTEGRITY
• Comprehensive annual training program
• Targeted live training on topical matters and 
“high risk” locations 
• Quarterly global newsletter
• Employee ethical culture survey• CEO and Business Unit Coffee Talks and 
communications
• Ethics & Integrity intranet resources
• Formal, confidential grievance or concern 
reporting proceduresIn our FY19 and 
FY20 Employee 
Ethical Culture 
Surveys, we scored 
above the survey’s 
company peer group 
benchmark in  
all categories.
42
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT governan Ceanti-Corruption r isk m anagement 
We take a multi-pronged approach with 
respect to anti-corruption risk management, 
which is founded upon robust processes 
and procedures, including internal oversight 
and regular external third-party reviews. 
Every two years we engage an independent 
third-party firm to audit our anti-corruption 
program, policies and procedures, the results 
of which, together with recommendations for 
enhancement, are discussed with our Audit 
Committee and reported to our Board. Our 
internal audit team also conducts regular 
audits of our compliance with selected anti-
corruption-related policies and procedures. 
We expect our suppliers, distributors and 
resellers to abide by all laws and regulations 
related to anti-corruption, and regularly 
communicate this expectation to them. 
We conduct anti-corruption screening and 
diligence prior to the onboarding of new 
suppliers, distributors and resellers, as well as 
periodic, risk-based diligence of existing ones, 
many of which are also continuously monitored via a third-party business information and 
research tool. In addition, we regularly provide 
anti-corruption training to many of our 
partners–as discussed in more detail below.
Acquisitions present additional potential 
concerns and we conduct extensive anti-
corruption diligence and risk assessments of 
companies and businesses that we seek to 
acquire. Upon the closing of an acquisition, our 
policies, procedures and trainings are promptly 
rolled out to acquired employees and any 
substantive business process enhancements 
identified during the due diligence process 
are promptly implemented, as part of our 
integration process. 
We strive to promptly 
mitigate compliance risks 
and address substantive 
areas for improvement that 
may be identified during 
these audits, assessments 
and due diligence efforts or 
as a result of our employee 
ethical culture surveys. anti-Corruption and Compliance Training 
Our directors, senior leaders, employees and 
contractors receive annual training on our Code, 
which includes an attestation of compliance 
with the Code. Our goal is to have a greater 
than 99% completion rate for our compliance 
trainings, which we routinely achieve. During 
FY20, we achieved a completion rate of 
over 99%, including 100% completion by our 
directors and senior leadership team. 
We require our employees and contractors to 
complete annual, or in some cases biennial, 
training on a number of other important topics, 
including anti-corruption and anti-bribery, 
insider trading and professional conduct, and 
to certify that they understand and agree to 
abide by our policies on these topics. Moreover, 
we regularly provide additional, targeted anti-
corruption, ethics and compliance trainings to 
our employees depending on their geographic 
location and job function. In addition, in FY20, 
we provided antitrust training to a number of 
our employees based on job function, including 
to our senior management team. 
We also provide regular online and in-person 
anti-corruption, ethics and compliance training 
to a number of our distributors and resellers.
During FY20, we trained over
800 partner employees
on anti-corruption topics, including live training sessions for 
partners in multiple countries.Our goal is to have a greater than 99% 
completion rate for our compliance 
trainings, which we routinely achieve. >99%
43
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT governan CeData Privacy and Cybersecurity 
At Broadcom, data privacy and cybersecurity 
are more than just administrative and 
compliance functions—they form a core  
part of our corporate mission. 
Both are critical for our internal controls but also for many of our 
product and service offerings. For example, our infrastructure 
software businesses provide our enterprise customers with a range 
of data-centric solutions to secure information on their mainframe 
systems, networks, and devices against compromise, loss or misuse. 
Privacy and security protections are therefore top of mind in the 
development of our technologies, in the ways we support our 
customers, in our interactions with employees and business partners 
and in our internal processes. for our Company
Within our company, data privacy is an increasingly prominent function. 
A dedicated privacy organization, led by our Global Privacy Officer 
and supported by an experienced team of International Association 
of Privacy Professionals-certified privacy attorneys, reports directly 
to the Chief Legal Officer and oversees all aspects of our corporate 
privacy program. They and our Privacy Working Group, which consists 
of cross-functional and global business unit stakeholders, work to 
promote a uniform and coordinated approach to diverse privacy 
regulatory frameworks and challenges.
We utilize program management software to centralize and automate 
the tracking of privacy and cybersecurity matters from emergence 
to resolution, including data subject access requests, data processor 
risk management, privacy impact assessments, records of processing 
activities, breach response activities and other privacy compliance 
issues. Employees receive periodic training on specialized privacy 
topics as it relates to their assigned duties.
44
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT governan Cefor our Customers
We strive to incorporate privacy and security into 
the full product lifecycle and to be transparent 
with customers and other stakeholders about 
our privacy and security policies and practices. 
As part of our transparency efforts, we maintain 
a Privacy portal  on our corporate website that 
includes our Global Privacy Policy, the Standard 
Contractual Clauses under which we conduct 
international data transfers, and product-
specific transparency statements that disclose 
categories of data collection and processing, 
the identities and locations of sub-processors, 
and privacy-enhancing product features. We 
also participate in the EU-U.S. and Swiss-U.S. 
Privacy Shield programs and intend to continue 
processing personal data in accordance with 
those principles.
In FY20, we acquired the 
enterprise cybersecurity 
business of the former 
Symantec Corporation and its best-in-class 
technologies that safeguard the world’s data 
and digital infrastructure from criminals and 
other malicious actors. The Symantec security 
solutions harness artificial intelligence, machine 
learning and the expertise of hundreds of 
engineers and researchers to correlate 
petabytes of threat data gathered from 
hundreds of millions of globally dispersed 
sensors, forming one of the largest civilian 
threat intelligence networks ever assembled.
This strategic investment reflects our 
dedication to information-security measures 
that continuously adapt to counter new and 
emerging threats within a constantly evolving 
technology landscape.
  Broadcom’s 
Privacy Portal
45
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT governan Cefor society
Our Symantec cybersecurity solutions also sit 
at the vanguard of efforts to strengthen global 
institutions’ defenses against organized crime 
syndicates operating online. In addition to 
providing the latest technical countermeasures 
against cyber threats, we frequently collaborate 
with law enforcement agencies and other 
partners around the world to help neutralize 
transnational cyber-threats and threat actors. 
Our technical expertise and unique visibility 
into threat actors’ tactics have helped authorities to break up cyber-crime networks 
and successfully prosecute a range of criminal 
offenders worldwide, including malware 
developers, botnet operators and various other 
enablers and co-conspirators.
As a result of these public-private 
collaborations, some of the world’s most 
prolific cyber threats – from banking Trojans 
to ransomware and other destructive attacks 
to distributed-denial-of-service campaigns 
and crypto-mining hijacks – have been 
stopped or dismantled.ensuring e ffectiveness
As a part of our own enterprise 
security program, we maintain 
a comprehensive portfolio of 
information security management 
system policies designed around 
the ISO/IEC 27001 standards, and 
we maintain an ISO 27001:2013 
certification for the Customer Support 
infrastructure of our software businesses. Our 
cloud-based Software-as-a-Service solutions 
also undergo routine audits for compliance with 
applicable security-controls standards such as 
the American Institute of CPAs’ Trust Services 
Criteria for Security, Availability, Processing 
Integrity, Confidentiality and Privacy (SOC 2) 
and the Payment Card Industry Data Security 
Standard (PCI-DSS).
We conduct third-party penetration testing of 
our corporate and customer-facing networks 
at least annually and routinely scan servers, 
applications, endpoints and network devices 
for vulnerabilities. All issues identified as critical, 
high or medium risks are timely remediated. 
In addition, we conduct quarterly simulations 
to raise employee awareness of the threat of 
email phishing and require our employees to 
successfully complete an annual Information 
Security Awareness training exercise.
As a leading provider of privacy and security 
technologies, we are also an active voice in 
educating others on privacy and cybersecurity 
matters, particularly in the area of public policy. 
We routinely contribute speakers to conferences 
and industry events, and our opinions on 
privacy and security topics are regularly sought 
out by policymakers and regulators. ISO/IEC 
27001
ISO 
27001:  
2013
Our commitment to 
cybersecurity is also reflected 
in our support for victims of 
computer fraud and abuse in 
their pursuit of civil remedies 
to disrupt or seize control of 
malicious infrastructure. Most 
recently, in October 2020, 
Broadcom provided technical 
evidence that allowed Microsoft 
Corporation and the Financial 
Services Information Sharing 
and Analysis Center to obtain 
legal injunctions that disrupted 
many of the command-and-
control capabilities of the 
notorious “Trickbot” malware.
46
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT governan CeProduct Quality 
We strive to provide the highest quality products that we 
can. Our reputation for product excellence is built upon the 
innovation, quality and reliability of our products. 
We have earned this reputation by:
•  Clearly understanding customer needs and 
providing products that meet those needs;
•  Integrating quality management principles 
into critical business processes and decision-
making practices;
•  Continuously improving the effectiveness 
of our quality management system, our 
processes, and products, to enhance their 
value for our customers, stockholders and 
employees;
•  Establishing strict quality standards and 
requiring suppliers, partners and contractors  
to comply with them;
• Maintaining our quality management system 
in conformance with the requirements of ISO 
9001; and
• Complying with the relevant regulatory 
requirements, including RoHS, REACH and 
regulations related to Conflict Minerals.
  Broadcom Product Safety 
and Regulations PolicyOur quality management system manages product life cycle 
processes and procedures, and all our employees are expected to 
provide products that meet legal requirements and are safe for their 
intended markets and applications, as outlined by our Broadcom 
Product Safety and Regulations Policy . We retain quality data pertaining to quality issues, including 
customer returns. Quality data is reported monthly with the Senior Vice President of Global 
Operations and reviewed quarterly with Broadcom’s CEO.
iso Certification
Our quality management 
system and processes are 
aligned with the requirements 
of ISO 9001, and we choose 
suppliers with quality 
management systems of equal 
rigor. We expect our suppliers 
and partners to comply with 
our Suppliers & Partners 
Quality System Requirements 
policy . Certain of our sites are 
ISO 9001 certified. For more 
information, please refer to 
our certificates: ISO 9001 
Certificate  and IATF 16949 
Certificate .
  Suppliers & Partners Quality 
System Requirements
 
  IATF 16949 
Certificate.  ISO 9001 
Certificate
47
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT governan CeAppendix
48
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT aPPendixGRI Content Index
Broadcom considered the Global Reporting Standards (Core Option) when creating this report. The index below indicates where information 
responsive to identified GRI disclosure categories may be found.
disclosure disclosure description location ( report section, url )
general  disClosures  (Core option)
102-1 Name of the organization Broadcom Inc. 
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services What We Make
102-3 Location of headquarters 1320 Ridder Park Drive, San Jose, California 95131
102-4 Location of operations Who We Are
102-5 Ownership and legal form Who We Are ; FY20 10-K Annual Report
102-6 Markets served Who We Are ; Our Strategy ; What We Make
102-7 Scale of the organization Who We Are
102-8 Information on employees and other workers Diversity and Inclusion
102-9 Supply chain Supply Chain Responsibility
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain There were no significant changes regarding the organization’s size, structure, 
ownership, or its supply chain during the reporting period, other than the 
acquisition of the Symantec enterprise business as of November 4, 2019.
102-11 Precautionary principle Managing Our Environmental Impact
102-12 External initiatives Investing in Our Communities
102-13 Membership of associations Stakeholder Engagement ; For Our Company : Semiconductor Industry 
Association; Responsible Mineral Initiative; Cybersecurity Coalition; the U.S. 
Chamber of Commerce; the Center for Information Policy Leadership;  
European Internet Forum
sTraTegy
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO Letter
eThiCs and  inTegri Ty
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Ethics and Integrity
governan Ce
102-18 Governance structure Corporate Governance and Board Oversight
49
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT aPPendixsTakeholder  engagemen T
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Our ESG Priorities
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Diversity and Inclusion
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Our ESG Priorities
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Our ESG Priorities ; Stakeholder Engagement
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Our ESG Priorities
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements FY20 10-K Annual Report , Exhibit 21.1, List of Significant Subsidiaries  
(as of November 1, 2020)
102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries About this Report
102-47 List of material topics Our ESG Priorities
102-48 Restatements of information No restatements
102-49 Changes in reporting This is Broadcom's inaugural ESG report.
102-50 Reporting period Fiscal year 2020: November 4, 2019 - November 1, 2020
102-51 Date of most recent report This is Broadcom's inaugural ESG report.
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report ESG@Broadcom.com
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Reporting Guidelines and Content
gri ToPiC-sPeCifiC dis Closures
eConomi C Performan Ce
201 103-1/2/3: Management Approach FY20 10-K Annual Report
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed FY20 10-K Annual Report ; Generating Value ; Investing in Our Communities
anTi-Corru PTion
205 103-1/2/3: Management Approach Ethics and Integrity ; Fostering a Speak Up Culture ; Addressing Concerns ; Anti-
Corruption Risk Management
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Anti-Corruption Risk Management
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Broadcom's Code of Ethics and Business of Conduct ; Anti-Corruption and 
Compliance Training
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Fostering a Speak Up Culture ; Addressing Concernsdisclosure disclosure description location ( report section, url )
50
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT aPPendixanTi-ComPeTiTive  behavior
206 103-1/2/3: Management Approach Ethics and Integrity ; Fostering a Speak Up Culture ; Addressing Concerns ;  
Anti-Corruption Risk Management
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices Please refer to Broadcom Inc.’s filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission on Broadcom’s website .
energy
302 103-1/2/3: Management Approach Managing Our Environmental Impact ; Energy and Emissions
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Energy and Emissions
302-3 Energy intensity Energy and Emissions
WaTer and  effluen Ts
303 103-1/2/3: Management Approach Managing Our Environmental Impact ; Water and Waste Management
303-3 Water withdrawal Water and Waste Management
emissions
305 103-1/2/3: Management Approach Managing Our Environmental Impact ; Energy and Emissions
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Energy and Emissions
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Energy and Emissions
effluen Ts and W asTe
306 103-1/2/3: Management Approach Managing Our Environmental Impact ; Water and Waste Management
emPloymen T
401 103-1/2/3: Management Approach Diversity and Inclusion ; Managing Our Efforts ; Compensation and Benefits
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Diversity and Inclusion
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or 
part-time employeesCompensation and Benefits
oCCuPaTional  heal Th and  safe Ty
403 103-1/2/3: Management Approach Employee Health and Safety
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation Employee Health and Safety ; Health and Safety Performance
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety Employee Health and Safety ; Communication and Training
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked 
by business relationshipsEmployee Health and Safety ; EHS Management Systemdisclosure disclosure description location ( report section, url )
51
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT aPPendixdiversi Ty and  eQual oPPorTuniTy
405 103-1/2/3: Management Approach Diversity and Inclusion ; Managing Our Efforts
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Diversity and Inclusion ; Board Diversity
forCed or ComPulsory  labor
409 103-1/2/3: Management Approach Supply Chain Responsibility ; Supply Chain Management
409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory 
laborEngaging Our Suppliers
loCal Communi Ties
413 103-1/2/3: Management Approach Investing in Our Communities
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and 
development programsInvesting in Our Communities
413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local 
communitiesInvesting in Our Communities
suPPlier  soCial  assessmenT
414 103-1/2/3: Management Approach Supply Chain Responsibility ; Supply Chain Management
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Engaging Our Suppliers
non -gri ToPiC sPeCifiC dis Closures
Produ CT Q uali Ty
103-1/2/3: m anagement a pproach Product Quality
iso 9001 Qualitative disclosures related to Broadcom’s policies and conformance to ISO 
9001 (quality management)Product Quality
CorPora Te governan Ce
103-1/2/3: m anagement a pproach Corporate Governance and Board Oversightdisclosure disclosure description location ( report section, url )
52
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT aPPendixSASB Content Index
Broadcom considered the SASB Semiconductors and Software & IT Industry Standards when creating this report. The index below indicates 
where information responsive to identified SASB disclosure categories may be found.
disclosure Topic disclosure n umber disclosure a ccounting m etric location (page, url )
sasb  standards a pplication 
guidanceSASB 5.0 Governance, 
Internal Control, and 
Assurancea.  The entity's governance around the risks and opportunities related to the topic, including 
board oversight of and management's role in assessing and managing such risks and 
opportunities
b.  The entity's strategic approach regarding actual and potential impacts of topic-related risks 
and opportunities on the organizations' businesses, strategy, and financial planning, over the 
short, medium, and long term
c.  The entity's process to identify, assess, and manage topic-related risks, and how these risks are 
integrated into the entity's overall risk management process
d.  The entity's use of metrics or targets to assess and manage topic-related risks and 
opportunitiesOur ESG Priorities ; Corporate 
Governance and Board Oversight
semiC ondu CTors indus Try disClosures
greenhouse g as emissions TC-SC-110a.1 (1) Gross global Scope 1 emissions and (2) amount of total emissions from perfluorinated 
compoundsEnergy and Emissions
energy m anagement in 
manufacturingTC-SC-130a.1 (1) Total energy consumed, (2) percentage grid electricity, (3) percentage renewable Energy and Emissions
employee h ealth & s afety TC-SC-320a.1 Description of efforts to assess, monitor, and reduce exposure of employees to human health 
hazardsEmployee Health and Safety
recruiting & m anaging a 
global & s killed WorkforceTC-SC-330a.1 Percentage of employees that are (1) foreign nationals and (2) located offshore Diversity and Inclusion
materials s ourcing TC-SC-440a.1 Description of the management of risks associated with the use of critical materials Supply Chain Responsibility ; Our 
Policy on Conflict Minerals
intellectual Property 
Protection & Competitive 
behaviorTC-SC-520a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with anti-competitive 
behavior regulationsPlease refer to Broadcom Inc.’s 
filings with the U.S. Securities 
and Exchange Commission on 
Broadcom’s website .
sofTWare & i T servi Ces indus Try dis Closures
environmental f ootprint of 
hardware i nfrastructureTC-SI-130a.1 (1) Total energy consumed, (2) percentage grid electricity, (3) percentage renewable Energy and Emissions
TC-SI-130a.2 (1) Total water withdrawn, (2) total water consumed, percentage of each in regions with High or 
Extremely High Baseline Water StressWater and Waste Management
data Privacy & f reedom of 
expressionTC-SI-220a.1 Description of policies and practices relating to behavioral advertising and user privacy Data Privacy and Cybersecurity
data s ecurity TC-SI-230a.2 Description of approach to identifying and addressing data security risks, including use of third-
party cybersecurity standardsData Privacy and Cybersecurity
recruiting & m anaging a 
global & s killed WorkforceTC-SI-330a.1 Percentage of employees that are (1) foreign nationals and (2) located offshore Diversity and Inclusion
TC-SI-330a.3 Percentage of gender and racial/ethnic group representation for (1) management, (2) technical 
staff, and (3) all other employeesDiversity and Inclusion
intellectual Property 
Protection & Competitive 
behaviorTC-SI-520a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with anti-competitive 
behavior regulationsPlease refer to Broadcom Inc.’s 
filings with the U.S. Securities 
and Exchange Commission on 
Broadcom’s website .
53
BROADCOM  2020 ESG REPORT aPPendixCopyright © 2021 Broadcom. All Rights Reserved. Broadcom, the pulse logo, and Connecting everything are among the trademarks of Broadcom. The term “Broadcom” refers to Broadcom Inc. and/or its subsidiaries.