2020
Sustainability
ReportCALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT0203  
04 
05 
06
07
12  
14 
16  
20  
22 24  
26 
28
29
0832  
34 
36 
37 
39 
40 
41  
46 
47  Values
CEO’s Letter
About Callon
About This Report
Operations Management System 
Overview
Environmental Management System
Air Emissions
Water Management
Land StewardshipOverview
Safety
Workforce
Our Communities
Climate-Related Risk StrategyOverview
Board of Directors
Enhanced Risk Oversight
Pay for Performance
Shareholder Engagement
Ethics and Transparency
SASB Disclosures
TCFD Disclosures
Forward-Looking StatementsTable of Contents
FOREWORD
ENVIRONMENTALSOCIAL
TCFD DISCLOSUREGOVERNANCE
DISCLOSURE FRAMEWORKS
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTSForeword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure FrameworksCALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT03VALUES
Our Values Are Our Foundation
Integrity  
We always strive to do the right thing and 
pride ourselves on being a preferred partner. 
We are consistently open, honest, ethical, 
and genuine. We do what we say and are 
accountable for our actions.Respect  
We value the ideas and contributions of all 
team members and show consideration and 
appreciation for one another. We recognize 
and embrace each other’s differences and 
work towards our common goals.
Excellence  
Our business requires focused innovation 
and evaluation of new opportunities for 
resource extraction. We balance the 
application of new technologies and 
testing of new concepts with prudent risk 
management and thorough data analysis. Responsibility  
The safety of our employees, contractors, 
and communities is of utmost importance —
this is not negotiable. We recognize that 
we earn the right to operate every day by 
developing our assets responsibly and with 
respect for the environment. We focus on 
safety and protection of the environment 
in every operation, and all Callon 
representatives are authorized to “stop 
work” if these are at risk.
Drive  
Keenly focused on leading, we relentlessly 
challenge the status quo to meet and 
exceed our expectations for top-tier 
performance in all aspects of our business. Foreword          Environmental          Social          Governance          SASB Disclosure
OVERVIEW      INTEGRATION      SAFETY      WORKFORCE      OUR COMMUNITIES      COVID ADAPTATION VALUES        CEO’S LETTER        ABOUT CALLON        ABOUT THIS REPORT        OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT SYSTEMForeword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure FrameworksCALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTDear Stakeholders, 
This past year was marked by an extraordinary 
number of memorable events, which presented 
both challenges and victories. Shortly after the 
start of the year, our newly integrated workforce 
was forced to transition to a fully remote work 
environment and yet still faced the challenges of 
a rapidly deteriorating commodity environment 
and global economy. Normal life ground to a 
halt, family routines were disrupted, and the 
strain on our economy and industry was sharp 
and debilitating for a time. 
Rather than use these pervasive issues as an 
excuse, our employees led by example and 
pushed forward on initiatives that our board 
and management team view as critical steps to 
improve our long-term corporate sustainability. 
We built upon on the meaningful progress from 
2019 and achieved new corporate records for 
safety and emissions. In 2020, gas flared as a 
percent of gas produced was down 44%, and 
greenhouse gas (GHG) intensity improved by 
28%. Spill levels dropped meaningfully, and we 
achieved our best safety year on record. We 
demonstrated Callon’s ability to quickly pivot both field and office operations while maintaining 
high levels of safety for our employees, vendors, 
and communities, and retaining the efficiency 
we worked hard to achieve.
Our social initiatives were emblematic of the 
culture of caring that Callon employees have 
always shown. Our team supported a growing 
variety of non-profit organizations serving our 
direct communities, first responders, and schools 
in need, and our employees gave their time and 
money, utilizing our corporate donation matching 
program to enhance the impact of those efforts. 
Based on employee survey responses from our 
newly integrated workforce, we were awarded 
Top Workplaces in Houston by the Houston 
Chronicle  for the fourth year in a row, reflecting 
our strong culture and desire to bring out the 
best in our employees. 
Investors have continued to express their desire 
for change, pushing companies to address climate 
concerns, discuss social issues, and enhance 
their governance practices. At Callon, we are not 
only addressing these concerns as they pertain 
to our company and our sector, but embracing 
the opportunity they present to reassert our 
core principle of responsibility. Changes to our 
corporate incentive compensation programs, 
realignment of our board responsibilities, and 
new quantitative commitments to reduce green-
house gas emissions have Callon on a clear path 
to driving the type of change that not only will 
make our company stronger, but will help our 
industry achieve the change necessary to remain 
good corporate citizens. We have accomplished 
a great deal in a short period of time and have 
set aggressive, meaningful goals that we expect 
to achieve in the near-term. 
PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  
JOSEPH C. GATTO JR.
04CEO’S LETTER
Our Commitment to Reducing 
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions
Callon is committed to mitigating the risks of 
climate change. As such, we plan to achieve:
 •A 40%-50% reduction in GHG emissions 
intensity versus pro forma 2019 results
 •The reduction of flared gas to less than 
2% of gas produced
 •The elimination of all routine field gas 
flaring
Please see page 16 for more details about 
our GHG reduction goals and action plan.Callon is on a clear 
path to driving the 
type of change 
necessary to remain 
good corporate 
citizens.”
JOSEPH C. GATTO JR.Foreword          Environmental          Social          Governance          SASB Disclosure
OVERVIEW      INTEGRATION      SAFETY      WORKFORCE      OUR COMMUNITIES      COVID ADAPTATION VALUES        CEO’S LETTER        ABOUT CALLON        ABOUT THIS REPORT        OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT SYSTEMForeword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure FrameworksCALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT101.6
Full-year 2020 Net Production 
(Mboe/d)
475.9
Year-end 2020 Proved Reserves 
(MMboe)
51%
4-Year Reserves CAGR
45%
3-year Proved, Developed, 
Producing (PDP) Reserves CAGR
0.54
Total Recordable Incident Rating 
(TRIR)
~ 180k
Net Acres in TexasSince 2013, Callon Petroleum has focused on 
the exploration, development, acquisition, and 
production of unconventional onshore oil and 
natural gas properties in the Permian Basin. 
In 2019, we expanded our portfolio to nearly 
200,000 net acres in the core of the Permian 
Basin and Eagle Ford Shale through the 
acquisition of Carrizo Oil & Gas, Inc. Over the 
company’s 70-year history, we have weathered 
the industry’s many volatile cycles by focusing 
on our core strengths and evolving as needed.
Because of our long operating history in the 
Permian Basin, we have positioned ourselves 
as an industry leader in horizontal drilling and 
completion techniques in unconventional 
resource plays. Today, we’re leveraging our meaningful 
infrastructure investments and focusing on full 
field development. This has allowed us to shift 
towards a sustainable long-term development 
model which benefits not only our company, 
but the environment and communities around 
us. Our mission is to build trust, create value, 
and drive sustainable growth for our investors, 
our employees, and the communities in 
which we operate. We strive to protect the 
health and safety of everyone who is part 
of our operations and those who live in the 
surrounding communities. As such, we work 
with our communities to minimize the impact of 
oil and natural gas development and ensure that 
they also benefit from our operations. Our goal 
is to instill a sense of community responsibility 
and high ethical standards for all our employees.
At Callon, we strive to deliver sustainable cash 
flow generation for our shareholders. In order to 
do this, we believe we must not only focus on 
the bottom line but also act as a good corporate 
citizen. Our management team, with support 
from the Environmental, Health, and Safety 
department, seeks to protect and improve 
the well-being of our employees, contractors, 
and the general public. We are committed to 
an operating philosophy that provides our 
employees a safe workplace while at the same 
time conducting operations in a manner that is 
environmentally sensitive and community aware. 
We believe that operating responsibly benefits 
not only Callon, but the community at large.
05ABOUT CALLON
We are committed to an operating philosophy 
that provides our employees a safe workplace 
while at the same time conducting operations 
in a manner that is environmentally sensitive 
and community aware.MIDLAND
BASIN
MIDLAND
DILLEYHOUSTONDELAWARE
BASIN
EAGLE
FORDForeword          Environmental          Social          Governance          SASB Disclosure
OVERVIEW      INTEGRATION      SAFETY      WORKFORCE      OUR COMMUNITIES      COVID ADAPTATION VALUES        CEO’S LETTER        ABOUT CALLON        ABOUT THIS REPORT        OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT SYSTEMForeword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure FrameworksCALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTTrue Transparency 
This is the second annual sustainability report 
for Callon. In this report, we disclose information 
about our environmental, social, and governance 
(ESG) policies and programs that we believe is 
of value to our stakeholders. Unless otherwise 
noted, the information and data in this report 
cover the company’s operated assets for the 
calendar year that ended on December 31, 2020. 
This report includes results for 2019 and 2020, 
which are the only years for which pro forma 
results are available following the December 
2019 closing of our acquisition of Carrizo Oil & 
Gas. Reported financial highlights were drawn 
from the Callon Petroleum Company Form 10-K 
for the fiscal year ended Dec. 31, 2020. 
As part of our efforts to continuously improve our 
ESG transparency, reporting, and performance, 
we welcome feedback on this report. Please 
send comments and questions about this report 
to ir@callon.com or 
Callon Petroleum Company  
2000 W Sam Houston Parkway South,  
Suite 2000  
Houston, Texas 77042  
Attn: Investor Relations
Disclosure Framework 
This report is informed by the Sustainability 
Accounting Standards Board (SASB) standards 
for Oil and Gas – Exploration & Production, and 
the Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD).
Callon determined the contents for this report 
in discussions with key internal and external 
stakeholders — including investors, senior 
management, and our internal subject matter 
experts — as well as an internal review of industry 
and peer ESG reporting practices. 
Data Validation
A quantitative review of the data included within 
this report was performed internally by individuals 
separate from those who compiled the data. This review included both discussions with data 
owners to obtain a high-level understanding 
of the systems and tools used to record and 
consolidate the data, as well as verification that 
the data adequately substantiates the information 
disclosed in this report.  In addition, the Callon 
Board of Directors reviewed this report, providing 
the Company’s highest level of internal assurance.
06ABOUT THIS REPORT
Foreword          Environmental          Social          Governance          SASB Disclosure
OVERVIEW      INTEGRATION      SAFETY      WORKFORCE      OUR COMMUNITIES      COVID ADAPTATION VALUES        CEO’S LETTER        ABOUT CALLON        ABOUT THIS REPORT        OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT SYSTEMForeword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure FrameworksCALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 07Management ProgramsOMSRisk Assessment& ManagementAssessment &Improvement
Emergency
Preparedness 
& Community
Awareness
Incident
Management
Third-Party
Services
Managementof Change
Operations & 
MaintenanceTraining & CompetencyDesign & 
Construction
Information & DocumentationLeadership,
Commitment &Accountability
Environmental Safety & Health PolicyOperations Management System 
Our Operations Management System (OMS) outlines expectations and accountability for conducting our operations 
safely, responsibly, and in an environmentally sound manner for the benefit of our employees, those involved with 
our operations, customers, and the public. The OMS framework is implemented with 11 essential elements designed 
to identify, measure, and mitigate risks in our operations. As part of Callon’s OMS, our Environmental Management 
System (EMS) is embedded within select elements.Foreword          Environmental          Social          Governance          SASB Disclosure
OVERVIEW      INTEGRATION      SAFETY      WORKFORCE      OUR COMMUNITIES      COVID ADAPTATION
Enhancement of Data Management in 2020 
We have continued to invest in processes and systems that allow 
us to proactively manage our Environmental, Health, and Safety 
(EHS) program. A strategic initiative for the company in 2020 was 
the development and implementation of a new EHS information 
management system that would cover our newly expanded asset 
base. This involved a multifaceted approach that was challenged by 
the effects of the pandemic as our teams were working remotely.  
Nonetheless, our departments came together in a collaborative way, 
and the system successfully went live in late 2020.
The EHS information management system helps us in many ways by 
improving the visibility and accountability for compliance and safety culture throughout the organization, especially when our employees 
and assets are located across multiple operating assets. The 
system also allows us to continue standardizing and improving our 
EHS-related risk management by establishing an enterprise-level 
platform that looks at our program from a more holistic standpoint 
versus an individual or asset-only standpoint. We can efficiently 
analyze and evaluate various EHS indicators, determine lessons 
learned, develop best practices, and quickly share and implement 
them across different regions within our company and externally 
with our contractors. By moving to this industry-leading platform, 
we have been able to reduce physical technology costs and better 
manage the risks inherent in our operations.VALUES        CEO’S LETTER        ABOUT CALLON        ABOUT THIS REPORT        OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT SYSTEMForeword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure FrameworksCALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 08Overview
Climate-Related Risk Strategy
At Callon, we share our stakeholders’ concerns about the risks of climate 
change. We also recognize the potential impacts to our industry, including 
the evolving preferences of consumers and investors as well as increasing 
regulatory obligations. As concerned citizens and responsible operators, we 
are committed to diligently minimizing and mitigating our environmental 
impact while we work to responsibly meet the demand for affordable 
energy in the United States and beyond. To address the increasing interest 
of shareholders and other stakeholders in how climate-related risks and 
opportunities can potentially impact Callon’s operational and financial 
performance, we provide voluntary disclosures regarding our active 
approach to assessing and managing climate risks in alignment with the 
TCFD recommendations.  Foreword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure FrameworksGovernance & Management of Climate-Related Risks
Board Oversight of Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities
The highest level of oversight of business risk management rests with our Board of Directors. The Board recognizes that ESG risks are 
interconnected with other business risks and opportunities. The Board regularly reviews salient ESG-related issues alongside other 
operational, financial, and strategic matters. At each board meeting, time is reserved for reviewing specific progress on Callon’s safety 
and environmental programs and targets.
 
Each of our Board committees has a role in our climate-related risk strategies. The Nominating & ESG Committee has responsibility 
for overseeing and guiding the Company’s policies and performance relating to ESG matters, including assessment and monitoring 
of stakeholder concerns and emerging issues such as climate-related risks and opportunities. The Operations & Reserves Committee 
oversees operational performance relative to established environmental goals, and the Audit Committee oversees the Company’s risk-
related disclosures in compliance with regulatory requirements. The Compensation Committee is responsible for aligning executive 
compensation with strategic Company priorities, including environmental performance. See page 37 for information about the 
incorporation of GHG emissions reduction goals into the Company’s incentive compensation program.AUDIT
COMMITTEECOMPENSATION
COMMITTEEBOARD OF
DIRECTORS
NOMINATING &
ESG COMMITTEEOPERATIONS &
RESERVES COMMITTEE
CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 09Foreword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure FrameworksCALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 10Management’s Role in Assessing and 
Managing Climate-Related Risks
Callon’s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief 
Financial Officer, and General Counsel (together, the Executive 
Leadership Team or ELT) are responsible for executing the Company’s 
business strategy and implementing the Board’s recommendations 
regarding risk management efforts. The Callon ELT team regularly 
reviews emerging risks, which are assessed based on their potential 
impact and probability of occurrence.  Identified risks are integrated 
into the Company’s risk assessment framework, and initiatives and 
processes are recommended to mitigate, control, and manage 
those risks. 
To understand the potential long-term impacts of climate-related 
risks and opportunities on Callon’s business, the ELT initiated the 
scenario analysis described below to assess the resilience of the 
Company’s business strategy in various future energy scenarios. 
The ELT also assessed the Company’s GHG emissions and, with 
input from the Board, established meaningful GHG emissions 
reduction goals to mitigate climate-related risks. As members of the 
ELT, Callon’s Chief Operating Officer is responsible for operational 
execution in support of those goals, and the Company’s Senior 
Vice President and General Counsel is responsible for overseeing 
the Company’s sustainability efforts, including climate-related 
assessments and disclosures. The ELT and Board are fully committed 
to responsibly adapting Callon’s operations for the future. Processes for Identifying, Assessing, & 
Managing Climate-Related Risks
The Company utilizes an enterprise risk management (ERM) 
framework that involves the assessment and ranking of risks 
within an evolving risk universe whereby broader categories and 
underlying specific risks are identified, assessed, and reviewed in 
consideration of the likelihood of the risk to occur, the potential 
impact of the risk, and the speed of onset for each particular risk. 
Once management has performed the periodic update assessment, 
the Board of Directors is engaged to ascertain independent director 
views on the prevailing risks, as well as the nature of initiatives and 
processes underway to mitigate, control, transfer, or capitalize on 
identified risks. The Board periodically reviews the current actions 
being taken by management to address these risks and seeks to 
surface any emerging risks the Company should add to the evaluated 
risk universe. With regard to climate-related risks, the Company has 
implemented a defined set of GHG emissions reduction goals and 
aligned incentive compensation metrics to reflect those goals.
Company Strategy & Scenario Analysis
Our Company provides affordable energy to our customers and 
creates value for our shareholders through a strategy of scaled 
development coupled with a “life of field” view that prioritizes 
both near-term returns and long-term inventory value optimization. 
Our diversified, multi-year inventory in the leading oil plays of the 
Permian Basin and Eagle Ford Shale provides us the flexibility to 
adapt our development plans to respond to commodity price cycles 
and deliver returns to shareholders. In addition, our industry-leading 
cash operating margins support durable cash flow generation 
through periods of commodity price volatility.
As we execute the development of our substantial resource base, 
we are mindful of the climate-related risks we face as the world 
seeks to balance progress towards a lower-carbon future with the 
energy needed to support economic growth and human prosperity. 
The risks we face include, among others, enhanced regulation of 
GHG emissions and other environmental impacts of our business; 
changing consumer energy preferences, potentially impacted 
by the adoption of carbon pricing policies, that affect commodity prices; and changing investor strategies that may impact our 
access to capital. We seek to lessen our exposure to these risks 
with a variety of strategies, including our commitment to reduce 
our environmental impact (see page 16 for our goals), maintaining 
our low-cost scaled operating model, and reducing absolute debt 
levels. As described above, we monitor and manage these risks 
and strategies through the ERM process overseen by the Board and 
management team. 
In addition, as a prudent business practice in an evolving energy 
landscape, we periodically evaluate the resiliency of our business 
under future global energy scenarios developed by the International 
Energy Agency (IEA) to reflect climate risks. Our recent analysis, 
as described on the following page, indicates that our business 
is projected to remain competitive and generate returns through 
2040 and beyond under various climate scenarios. Foreword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure FrameworksIn its World Energy Outlook1, the IEA contemplates two main climate-
related energy scenarios: the Stated Policies Scenario (STEPS), its 
central scenario reflecting current and proposed policies, and the 
Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS), which assumes alignment 
with the Paris Agreement goal to limit global temperatures to no more 
than 2°C above pre-industrial levels. In the SDS carbon-constrained 
scenario, the world’s growing energy demand is increasingly met 
by renewable energy sources but hydrocarbons continue to be 
an essential part of the energy mix. As shown in the chart  to the 
right, IEA projects oil prices of $85 and $53 in the STEPS and SDS 
scenarios, respectively, in 2040. 
These projected oil prices compare favorably to Callon’s breakeven 
costs to develop and produce our hydrocarbon assets. Because 
Callon’s internal breakeven costs are confidential, the data provided 
here is based on analysis by the energy advisory firm Enverus. Per 
Enverus analysis, Callon’s average half-cycle breakeven prices — 
the price needed to recover capital expenditures (excluding sunk 
capital), operating costs, royalties, and taxes and earn an acceptable 
return on investment — in the Delaware, Midland and Eagle Ford 
plays are in line with or below the peer average breakeven prices 
as shown in the chart to the right2. This analysis suggests that Callon 
can be expected to generate high returns in the STEPS scenario 
at $85 oil and continue to operate profitably even in the case of 
declining oil prices in the carbon-constrained SDS scenario.
In addition, Callon has a robust portfolio that supports resiliency. 
Our current asset inventory includes approximately 1,500 primary 
locations with breakeven economics at $50 oil, with upside at 
higher prices and from future development in additional zones. In 
addition, Callon has a respected track record of executing accretive 
acquisitions. Based on this scenario analysis, we believe Callon is 
well-positioned to sustain our business and deliver value to our 
shareholders and stakeholders in a wide range of climate scenarios. 
Targets & Metrics
See page 16 for Callon’s emissions reduction targets and related 
strategies.3. IEA World Energy Documentation - 2020 (dated February 19, 2021); 
Amounts reflected in real 2019 dollars.Callon Portfolio Resiliency
CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 111. World Energy Outlook 2020, International Energy Agency, October 2020.
2. Permian Play Fundamentals, Enverus, April 28, 2021, and Eagle Ford Play Fundamentals, 
Enverus, March 24, 2021.Midland BasinAvg. WTI, IEA Crude - 2040 Stated Polices, $85/Bbl3
Peer Avg:
$33/Bbl2Peer Avg:
$35/Bbl2Peer Avg:
$43/Bbl2Avg. WTI, IEA Crude - 2025 Stated Polices, $71/Bbl3
Avg. WTI, IEA Crude - 2025 Sustainable Development, $57/Bbl3
Avg. WTI, IEA Crude - 2040 Sustainable Development, $53/Bbl3
Delaware Basin Eagle Ford$0$20$30$40$50$60$70$80$90
$10Foreword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure FrameworksOverview
Committed to Safeguarding
the Environment
At Callon, respecting the environment as we develop our natural resources 
is both a core value and a business imperative. When we protect the air, 
water, and land, we preserve the future for our communities. Callon actively 
works to reduce air emissions, protect local water supplies, minimize fresh 
water use, and prevent spills. 
CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 12OVERVIEW       ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM       AIR EMISSIONS       WATER MANAGEMENT       LAND STEWARDSHIPForeword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure FrameworksCALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 13Reduction in GHG 
emissions intensityReduction of gas 
flared as a percent  
of gas produced
Reduction in  
Total Fluid Spill Rate 66%28% 44%2020 Environmental Performance Highlights1
1. Percent reduction from 2019 to 2020.
2. Methane intensity is calculated as total Methane (CO2-e) divided by total Scope 1 emissions.
Callon’s Environmental Management 
System (EMS), which is embedded 
within select elements of our OMS, 
is a multidimensional approach to 
safeguard the environment. The 
EMS consists of nine elements that 
work together to set expectations 
and goals, monitor and evaluate 
performance, and drive continuous 
improvement.Reduction in  
Methane Intensity2 25%OVERVIEW       ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM       AIR EMISSIONS       WATER MANAGEMENT       LAND STEWARDSHIPForeword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure FrameworksCALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 14Management’s Environmental  
Responsibilities
Callon’s operations leaders establish 
priorities and allocate resources to meet 
our environmental commitments, including 
the performance goals. Job assignments 
are in place for employees to implement 
the environmental programs and plans. 
Management periodically reviews and 
assesses the progress of our goals and 
objectives, and assigns corrective actions  
to stimulate continual improvement.Environmental Management  
Programs  
Our ongoing environmental programs 
and requirements are described in 
our Environmental, Health and Safety 
Manual. These programs have not only 
reduced our operational impacts, but also 
improved efficiency, lowered costs, and 
reduced risk. In this way, environmental 
stewardship does more than allow us to 
maintain our license to operate; it helps 
drive the sustainability of our business. 
Targets & Objectives
Callon demonstrated its commitment to 
protecting the environment and building a 
sustainable business by establishing GHG 
reduction targets by 2025, using 2019 
as the baseline. These targets include a 
40-50% reduction of our GHG Intensity, 
the reduction of flared gas to less than 2% 
of gas produced, and the elimination of all 
routine field gas flaring. Our compensation 
is linked to the achievement of short- and 
medium-term emissions reduction goals,  
as well as our spill prevention performance.Monitoring & Data  
Management Systems
We use a combination of internal and third-  
party systems to collect and aggregate 
environmental data so it can easily be 
reviewed, monitored, and used to improve 
our performance and meet our objectives 
and goals. In addition, we use this data for 
regulatory reporting purposes.Safety & Environmental Policy  
Callon ensures that our workforce is 
aware of our environmental programs, 
protocols, and performance expectations 
in compliance with all applicable 
environmental laws and regulations. 
Employees and contractors are held 
accountable for adhering to the 
operating principles in our Safety and 
Environmental Policy.Board of Directors Oversight  
The expectation that Callon will operate 
an environmentally conscious business 
starts with oversight of our performance by 
our Board of Directors. To ensure that our 
management team focuses on continuous 
improvement, the Board has included 
environmental performance as quantitative 
and qualitative factors in Callon’s 2021 
executive compensation program.Environmental Management System
Commitment to Safeguarding the Environment Embedded in Our OMS OVERVIEW       ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM       AIR EMISSIONS       WATER MANAGEMENT       LAND STEWARDSHIPForeword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure FrameworksCALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 15Environmental Audits & Inspections 
Routine inspections and maintenance 
are performed by trained personnel to 
verify that engineering controls are in 
place and functioning properly to prevent 
unnecessary releases to the environment. 
We use optical gas imaging (OGI) cameras 
to scan production facilities for leaks as 
part of our leak detection and repair (LDAR) 
program, including conducting voluntary 
surveys beyond regulatory requirements. 
Environmental audits are periodically 
conducted on production facilities to verify 
that environmental controls are in place. Environmental Training  
& Awareness  
Annual compliance training is conducted 
for our operations personnel regarding spill 
prevention and response. Awareness training 
is also provided to operations personnel 
regarding emissions leaks and repair. 
Workers who are new to the industry receive 
additional training during onboarding.Contractor Management 
We believe that all contractors are  
an extension of Callon Petroleum  
and communicate our environmental  
expectations to their personnel who  
work on Callon locations. 
OVERVIEW       ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM       AIR EMISSIONS       WATER MANAGEMENT       LAND STEWARDSHIPForeword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure Frameworks16
 CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTReducing Air Emissions Throughout the 
Development and Production Lifecycle
Callon is committed to sustainable and responsible development 
of oil and natural gas resources, while assessing and mitigating 
climate change risk. We recognize the heightened public focus 
around GHG and other air emissions and their impacts on air 
quality and global climate change. Due to these concerns, we 
seek to reduce emissions throughout the development and 
production lifecycle, primarily by implementing best practices and 
new technologies. In 2020, we reduced our GHG intensity by 28% 
over 2019 by implementing improvements across our operations, 
as described in this report. This is the first step in our commitment 
to reducing GHG intensity by 40%-50% by 2025.
Our emissions management strategies focus on direct emissions 
from our operations. The primary metric we use to evaluate our 
progress is GHG intensity (emissions per unit of production), which 
provides a comparable year-over-year measure of performance 
normalized for changes in development activity levels, new 
facility installation, acquisitions, and divestitures. A report of air 
emissions from our operations for 2019 and 2020 for all SASB-
aligned measures can be found on pages 41-45. Though not 
required by SASB, we have added Scope 2 (indirect) emissions 
to our list of disclosures, which reflect emissions from purchased 
energy sources including purchased electricity to power our field 
operations and all our offices.
To determine our overall GHG inventory, we aggregate relevant 
data sources for gross global Scope 1 throughout our operations, including combustion equipment, storage tanks, flaring, 
dehydration, pneumatic devices, fugitive emissions, drilling, and 
completions activity. Callon also reports gross operated GHG 
emissions in accordance with the EPA Mandatory Reporting 
of Greenhouse Gases Rule for our production and gathering 
segments, and our annual reports are publicly available. Results 
reflect our commitment and efforts to reduce emissions, both 
voluntarily and as required, through continuous improvement and 
capital investments in facilities and technology as described in the 
following section.
Strategies and Best Practices to 
Reduce Emissions and Intensity
Our efforts to reduce Scope 1 direct emissions (operational 
emissions), lower our carbon footprint, and limit air polluting 
emissions, while capturing and conserving valuable natural 
resources. Callon implements long-term and short-term strategies, 
as well as best practices, to address emissions from various sources.AIR EMISSIONS
  28%
We reduced our GHG intensity by  
28% compared to 2019.
Reduce GHG emissions intensity by 
40-50% relative to pro forma 2019Reduce flared gas to less than 
2% of gas producedEliminate all routine flaring< 2%GHG Emissions Targets by 2025
1 2 3Callon is committed to mitigating the risks of climate change. As such, we plan to achieve the following by 2025:OVERVIEW       ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM       AIR EMISSIONS       WATER MANAGEMENT       LAND STEWARDSHIPForeword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure FrameworksCALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 17Expand field electrification to minimize diesel generators
Evaluate field compression optimization projects
Field-test dual fuel and electric frac fleetsAssess additional opportunities to expand gas gathering 
optionality to mitigate third-party flaring risk
Field-test low bleed and air-actuated pneumatic devices 
to reduce our methane emissions2021 INITIATIVES
•••••Path to Emission Reductions
GHG Reduction Action Plan 
PHASE 1: ESTABLISH TARGETS AND OBJECTIVES
Complete
PHASE 2: TECHNICAL EVALUATION
In Progress
PHASE 3: FULL PROGRAM
IMPLEMENTATIONGHG emissions targets adopted in 
ﬁrst quarter 2021
40%-50% reduction in GHG 
emissions intensity vs. pro forma 
2019 results
Reduction of ﬂared gas to less 
than 2% of gas produced
Elimination of all routine ﬁeld gas 
ﬂaringRoot-cause analysis
Feasibility studies
Pilot programs
Operational readiness
Technology requirements and 
limitationsEstablish scope and timing for 
implementation of new technologies
Prioritize implementation to 
maximize emission reductions
Increase capital investments in 
proven operational enhancements•
•
••
•
•
•
••
•
•
OVERVIEW       ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM       AIR EMISSIONS       WATER MANAGEMENT       LAND STEWARDSHIPForeword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure FrameworksCALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
   44%
In 2020, we reduced our gas flared 
as a percent of gas produced by 
44% compared to 2019.
   25%
We reduced our methane intensity 
by 25% compared to 2019.
$13MM+
In recent years, Callon has 
invested more than $13 million to 
connect our facilities to electric 
power substations, which reduces 
our use of internal combustion 
engines, the associated GHG 
emissions, and operating costs.Proactive Efforts to Reduce Flaring 
Callon actively monitors and seeks to reduce 
gas flaring by mitigating flaring risks within our 
operations and routing our production to pipelines 
for sale. In 2020, we reduced our gas flared as 
a percent of gas produced by 44% compared 
to 2019, which contributed to the reduction in 
methane intensity by 25%. Our efforts to reduce 
flaring continue. We have established a medium-
term target to reduce our percent of gas flared by 
2025 to under 2%, including the elimination of all 
routine flaring.
Historically, our flared gas volumes were 
significantly impacted by operational upsets at  
third-party natural gas processing and 
transportation facilities. To reduce the risk 
of future flaring due to these upsets, we 
implemented secondary gathering options 
to create offtake alternatives in the event of 
compressor or processing downtime on third-
party systems for our two highest-volume natural 
gas gathering systems.
Per our established practice, we do not allow 
routine flaring on new well completions. While 
some minimal routine flaring occurs on legacy 
wells, we have committed to eliminate any 
remaining routine flaring by 2025. 
Within our own operations, we track combustion 
engine runtimes and work with third-party 
engine providers to achieve higher efficiency, 
which reduces flaring and the risk of operational 
upsets. In 2020, we initiated monthly reliability 
reviews with third-party engine providers 
throughout our operations and improved 
compressor runtimes, resulting in decreased 
flaring. When flaring is necessary to control the 
safe operation of our facilities, we are diligent in 
mitigating flares and ensuring flaring is properly 
permitted and reported. In addition to securing 
redundant third-party takeaway, our production 
operations team, in conjunction with our asset 
development team, completed an asset-wide 
mapping analysis of our higher gas-to-oil ratio 
wells and developed a multi-staged shut-in 
process to further reduce our flaring exposure.Reducing Combustion Emissions 
Throughout the Development and
Production Lifecycle 
In recent years, Callon has invested more than 
$13MM, including $1.7MM in 2020, to connect 
our facilities to electric power substations, 
which reduces our use of internal combustion 
engines, the associated GHG emissions, and 
operating costs. In 2020, we expanded our 
electrical substation network, allowing for 
the removal of over 40 diesel generators and 
resulting in improved operating reliability and 
reduced carbon emissions.
Callon also pursues production enhancement 
measures to minimize combustion emissions 
and improve performance. We continuously 
evaluate conversions from natural gas lift to 
rod pump and electric submersible pumps to 
ensure the most efficient method of artificial 
lift for each well. Other improvements include 
replacing direct drive pumps with variable 
frequency drive (VFD) pumps, which reduce 
Scope 2 indirect emissions and electrical 
energy costs and increase efficiency. 
Callon works closely with our contractors to 
deploy low-emitting equipment on the well pad 
when available. In 2020, all drilling rigs were 
converted to operate on Callon assets with 
dual fuel rigs. These rigs use clean-burning 
compressed natural gas (CNG) to power rigs 
when possible, which cuts GHG emissions 
from diesel engines in our operations by 
over 20% per rig. For our 2021 completion 
program, we pilot tested a dual-fuel capable 
frac fleet, enabling substitution of diesel  
fuel with clean-burning natural gas and field  
gas. We  also pilot tested an electric frac fleet that  
utilized gas turbines to generate the energy 
source needed for completion operations.  
These developments highlight our dedication 
to sustainable development throughout  
our operations.
18OVERVIEW       ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM       AIR EMISSIONS       WATER MANAGEMENT       LAND STEWARDSHIPForeword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure FrameworksCALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 19Prevention and Detection Efforts  
Reduce Emissions 
Callon applies industry best practices to design 
and build our facilities to reduce vented emissions 
with emission control equipment that captures 
the largest amount of natural gas, including vapor 
recovery towers (VRT), vapor recovery units (VRU), 
combustors, and low-pressure flares. Consistent 
with industry best practice, we do not use high-
bleed pneumatic controllers, which are a major 
source of vented emissions. In 2021, we plan to 
field-test low-bleed and air-actuated pneumatic 
devices to evaluate full field implementation 
where third-party electrical power is available. 
By retro-fitting our existing pneumatic devices 
with zero emission air-actuated or low-bleed 
pneumatic devices, we can significantly reduce 
our methane emissions as well as our total GHG 
emissions from our operations. 
We also seek to minimize the release of natural 
gas by using “green completions” on 100% of 
our wells. Following a brief stabilization period, water, oil, and natural gas produced during initial 
flowback operations are routed via pipeline to 
pre-installed Callon permanent facilities, where 
they are processed before being sent to sales. 
By processing these hydrocarbons through our 
permanent facilities equipped with emissions 
control equipment, we minimize natural gas 
venting that can occur with extended use of 
temporary flowback and testing equipment. 
Callon uses optical gas imaging (OGI) cameras to 
scan production facilities for leaks as part of our 
leak detection and repair (LDAR) program, including 
conducting voluntary surveys beyond regulatory 
requirements. We inspect our facilities using OGI 
cameras to identify and repair fugitive emissions 
leaks from all equipment and associated piping 
and fittings. Deficiencies found during these leak 
inspections are repaired and re-inspected to 
verify that the repair was effective. 100%
We also seek to minimize the 
release of natural gas by using 
“green completions” on 100% of 
our wells.
Callon successfully completed the company’s first three-well pad using electric frac, or E-frac, technology. The benefits of E-frac are the 
reduction in emissions and noise pollution.OVERVIEW       ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM       AIR EMISSIONS       WATER MANAGEMENT       LAND STEWARDSHIPForeword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure Frameworks20 CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTUsing Water Responsibly
Water is vital to our communities and is 
also a necessary element of our drilling and 
completions activities. We seek to minimize our 
impact on local water supplies and are focused 
on proper sourcing, recycling, reuse, and safe 
disposal of water throughout our operations. We 
also seek methods to reduce our water demand 
through engineering design improvements and 
by prioritizing water recycling.
See page 42 for quantitative disclosure of our 
2020 Water Management Activities, which 
reflect reduced overall activity levels in 2020 
due to the dramatic decline in oil prices as 
a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and the 
actions of certain oil-producing countries. 
Callon strives to preserve local fresh water 
supplies by using alternative sources such as 
recycled produced water and non-fresh water 
for our operational activities, particularly in areas 
where community water supplies are at greatest 
risk. In 2020, the global pandemic required us 
to reduce our operational activity and shift focus 
to other basins where we could realize short 
cycle returns in order to protect our business. 
While the resulting shift prevented us from fully 
utilizing our recycling facilities, which are mainly 
focused in the Delaware Basin, we were able to 
reduced our overall usage of fresh water in high 
water stress areas. 
In 2020, approximately half of the water we 
consumed was supplied from recycled or non-
fresh water sources, and recycled volumes as 
a share of water consumed increased by 10%. 
In recent years, we have invested over $10MM 
in water recycling facilities in the Delaware 
Basin, where fresh water supplies are scarce. 
We completed the expansion of our recycling 
facilities in 2019, thus allowing for handling of 
up to 60,000 barrels per day of produced water 
volumes. By August 2020, our operations team 
successfully completed two three-well pads in 
the Delaware Basin that sourced more than 95% 
of fracture stimulation volumes from recycled 
produced water. That is nearly 100 million gallons. 
By December 2020, we completed approximately 
50 wells in our Permian assets utilizing recycled produced water at an average substitution rate 
of 67%, equating to over 572 million gallons of 
recycled volumes. This meaningful investment 
in high-volume recycling facilities has already 
shown benefits for the environment, as well 
as our cost structure. Our goal is to expand the 
use of recycled water in our completions where 
feasible in the Delaware Basin.
In addition to responsibly sourcing our 
operational water needs when possible, 
Callon also seeks to minimize water usage 
through hydraulic fracture modeling and active 
engineering oversight during well completion 
operations. These efforts reduced water usage 
by more than 20% in our Delaware Basin 
operations in 2019, and more than 15% in our 
Midland Basin operations in 2020.  We are 
adopting this practice across our operations to 
further conserve water resources. 
Callon makes a concerted effort to manage 
the water that is produced along with oil and 
natural gas in our operations. We recycle water 
whenever feasible through our own or third-
party facilities, and plan for the safe transport 
and disposal of water to mitigate spills, protect 
underground resources, and ensure the safety 
of our local communities. When recycling is not 
feasible, we dispose of our water in safe, well-
constructed saltwater disposal (SWD) wells that 
are permitted by the Texas Railroad Commission. 
In our Midland Basin operation in 2020, Callon 
disposed of 90% of produced water volumes 
in the Ellenberger formation, deeper than 
our deepest hydrocarbon producing zone. 
By disposing of produced water below our 
hydrocarbon producing intervals, we protect 
local water supplies and mitigate drilling 
hazards associated with offset injection wells. 
In the Delaware Basin, for produced water 
volumes that are not recycled, we have a 
strategic venture with a third-party vendor 
to move volumes through a pipeline to older 
depleted oil-producing areas where water 
can be safely reinjected away from current 
operations and future development zones. This 
preserves future value and reduces potential 
future issues for our stakeholders.WATER MANAGEMENT
19%
As of December 2020, over 19% 
of  water consumed in our total 
operated assets was sourced from 
recycled production water.
527MM
The amount of recycled water 
consumed in our Permian 
operations since 2018.CONSUMED WATER SOURCES
IN 2020
Fresh Water
Non-Fresh Water
Recycled Water50%
31%19%
GallonsOVERVIEW       ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM       AIR EMISSIONS       WATER MANAGEMENT       LAND STEWARDSHIPForeword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure Frameworks21 CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTGroundwater Protection
At Callon, we utilize hydraulic fracturing on all 
of our wells in order to produce hydrocarbons 
from depths that can exceed two miles beneath 
the surface. During drilling operations to reach 
these depths, we encounter multiple shallow 
zones, some of which contain fresh water 
sources. Our well designs and operational 
procedures are crafted to ensure that we do not 
impact these resources. 
Fresh water protection is regulated by the 
State of Texas, and Callon meets or exceeds 
all State of Texas and federal guidelines. Our 
wells are designed according to industry 
standards, with layers of casing and cement to 
protect underground sources of fresh water. 
Casing and cementing are critical parts of the 
well construction process that not only protect 
groundwater, but also help ensure efficient 
production of oil and natural gas from the well. 
Before hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, begins, 
the cased and cemented well is pressure 
tested per industry standards to ensure well 
integrity and safety. We also utilize available 
3-D seismic data to interpret and evaluate geologic hazards, such as faults, and we use 
those interpretations to drive our development 
strategy and philosophy for acreage position. 
As a neighbor to our peers, we notify nearby 
operators of our drilling and completion 
schedules to reduce the risk of impacting offset 
operator activity. While this notice is required in 
some areas, we operate under a good neighbor 
policy, so we provide notice regardless of local 
requirements. 
Hydraulic fracturing requires different types of 
sand, proppant, and chemicals. Our hydraulic 
fracturing fluids do not contain diesel or volatile 
organic compounds (VOCs) such as benzene, 
toluene, ethylbenzene, or xylenes (BTEX). 
We support public disclosure of the chemical 
composition of fracturing fluids by working 
with our vendors to submit information to 
FracFocus. We seek to provide this information 
in a transparent manner so that all of our 
stakeholders can take comfort in the practices, 
procedures, and technology necessary to 
find and develop oil and natural gas. For 
comprehensive information of our fluids usage 
on a per-well basis, please visit the website 
www.fracfocus.org.
OVERVIEW       ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM       AIR EMISSIONS       WATER MANAGEMENT       LAND STEWARDSHIPForeword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure Frameworks22 CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTPreventing Impacts to  
the Land
Callon demonstrates our respect for the 
environment by striving to minimize the impact 
of our operations on the land and wildlife. To 
achieve this, we implement industry best practices 
throughout the lifecycle of our operations, 
including environmental site assessments prior 
to new construction, spill prevention measures 
during active operations, and responsible disposal 
of waste when our activities are complete. 
See page 43 for quantitative disclosure of our 
2020 spills and other biodiversity impacts. 
Spill Prevention Measures
We implement numerous measures across our 
operations to prevent unnecessary releases to 
the environment. Spill prevention, along with 
management and response plans, are prepared 
and maintained for each operating area. 
These plans describe preventative measures 
as well as control and countermeasures in 
the event a spill occurs. Routine inspections 
and maintenance are performed by trained 
personnel to verify that engineering controls are 
in place and functioning properly. In addition, 
annual training is required for our operations 
personnel to review the requirements of the 
plan and personnel responsibilities. 
Callon has a system to track, record, and 
determine the cause of any oil, produced water, 
or other spill or release over one barrel. This 
allows us to actively identify trends and improve 
our processes to prevent future releases. We 
are also working to implement additional spill 
mitigation measures, including night-time 
monitoring and actuated wellhead valves to 
shut in wells based on overpressure and flow 
alarms for higher-risk facilities and pipelines. 
We proactively utilize new technology in our 
efforts to reduce unintentional releases of 
produced fluids. Callon utilizes aerial surveillance and drone units to identify active and potential 
produced fluids releases in our field operations 
facilities. We foresee the opportunity to further 
enhance our drone usage for broad-scale aerial 
imagery and observation operations, potentially 
replacing small aircraft flyovers and significantly 
lowering the carbon footprint of these operations. 
Our commitment to protect the environment 
and our proactive actions significantly reduced 
our total fluids spill rate by 66% versus 2019. In 
2020, we also achieved over 80% reduction in 
hydrocarbon spills to the environment versus 
baseline 2019. 
Developing Acreage to Minimize  
Surface Impacts
Callon develops our acreage to minimize surface 
impact and uses best practices to protect land 
and wildlife in the areas where we operate. 
When possible, we develop our assets through 
multi-well, multi-pad drilling and completion 
operations, which avoids disturbing the same 
parcel of land more than once. Drilling multiple 
wells on a single pad not only minimizes our 
surface footprint, it also reduces cost structure 
and enables us to complete our drilling program 
in a highly efficient manner. 
Callon does not have any acreage on federal 
lands. We also do not have acreage or 
reserves in areas containing critical habitats 
of threatened or endangered species as 
described in the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service’s 
IPaC (Information, Planning, and Consultation 
System) report. Before new construction, 
we identify the presence of any wetlands or 
neighboring streams, and take appropriate 
measures to protect these resources 
throughout the life of our field operations. In 
addition to preconstruction reviews, measures 
are taken to ensure that all facilities are actively 
maintained to prevent migratory birds and 
other wildlife from accessing temporary pits, 
stacks, heaters, and all other equipment that 
could pose a hazard.LAND STEWARDSHIP
 See page 43 for spill rate  
definition.
(Volume in Barrels)SPILL RATE
HYDROCARBON SPILLS  
TO ENVIRIONMENT2019115
20203966% Spill Rate Reduction
81% Reduction
2019715
2020135OVERVIEW       ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM       AIR EMISSIONS       WATER MANAGEMENT       LAND STEWARDSHIPForeword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure Frameworks23 CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTWorking with Partners to Achieve  
Environmental Improvements
Callon is proud to support partnerships and initiatives that promote transparency and innovation in 
environmental best practices. Callon actively participates in environmental and regulatory peer groups, 
agency cooperative efforts, subject matter committees, and environmental non-profit organizations to 
exchange technical knowledge, innovation, and emissions reduction strategies. These relationships 
also provide opportunities to engage key stakeholders, develop an understanding of sound science, 
and further progressive, responsible, and efficient oil and natural gas production.
OVERVIEW       ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM       AIR EMISSIONS       WATER MANAGEMENT       LAND STEWARDSHIPForeword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure FrameworksCALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 24We value each other’s ideas and contributions, and foster an entrepreneurial 
environment and a respectful workplace where we work toward common 
goals. We believe that a strong safety culture is a requirement to be a leading 
operator in the exploration and production (E&P) business. Our values of 
responsibility, integrity, drive, respect, and excellence are the foundation 
upon which our Company was built, and upon which we will sustain  
our success.Overview
Callon ’s workforce is  talented 
and committed to the safety, 
health, and development of  
each team member.Foreword          Environmental          Social          Governance          SASB Disclosure
OVERVIEW            SAFETY            WORKFORCE            OUR COMMUNITIESForeword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure FrameworksCALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 25WE ARE CALLON
Based on our annual employee 
survey results, we were named a Top 
Workplace by the Houston Chronicle  
for the fourth year in a row
2020 was our best 
safety year on record
Minorities represent over 
a third of our full-time, 
permanent employee baseA participation level of 93% in our 
employee engagement survey
Supported 60 unique nonprofit 
organizations focused on education,  
first responders, community support, 
and environmental beautification 36%93%
60#12020 Social Performance Highlights
Our guiding principles for social responsibility start with our values, which enable us to foster trust 
with our employees, contractors, our shareholders, and the communities in which we operate. Our 
Board of Directors holds us accountable for actions and results that are consistent with those values. 
Callon leadership provides the tone from the top with clear priorities and well-defined policies. Our 
front-line managers set the example daily through ethical and safety-oriented business practices. 
Finally, we embrace the variety of employee backgrounds represented in the Callon workforce that 
allow us to better live the unifying principle of the Callon statement:Foreword          Environmental          Social          Governance          SASB Disclosure
OVERVIEW            SAFETY            WORKFORCE            OUR COMMUNITIESForeword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure FrameworksCALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 26Adapting Our Business and 
Protecting Our Employees 
in Turbulent Times
In March 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic caused 
significant disruption to our communities, the 
economy, and our industry. For the remainder 
of the year, Callon’s decisions and actions 
were guided by our commitment to meeting 
our social obligations and the interests of our 
many stakeholders. When COVID-19 began to 
spread across the U.S., we took quick actions 
to manage our business effectively, prioritizing 
the health and safety of our team members 
and their families. In our field locations, Callon 
implemented COVID-19 screening, social 
distancing, and other health and safety protocols 
for  workers whose presence was required for 
safe operations. We closed our office locations in 
mid-March to reduce the risk of virus spread, and 
provided employees with the equipment they 
needed to work remotely. Callon also supported 
the health needs of employees and their families 
by continuing our long-standing practice of 
paying 100% of medical insurance premiums and 
engaging a third-party medical advisor to consult 
with employees who had possible exposure to 
COVID-19 and recommend proper protocols. In 
addition to this, we incorporated a Families First 
paid sick leave benefit to aid in the recovery of 
those infected by the disease. Throughout the 
pandemic, we have maintained a frequent pace 
of formal and informal communications with our 
workforce to reinforce safety protocols, apprise 
the team of our plans, and continue to foster a 
sense of connection across Team Callon.
Continuously Improving 
Our Safety Performance
Protecting our employees, contractors, and 
communities is a core value at Callon and our 
top priority. We identify and mitigate safety risk 
and integrate a culture of safety by operating 
according to OMS standards, processes, and 
procedures. 
See page 7 for an overview of our OMS. Our Safety and Environmental Policy is 
referenced in our OMS and shared with all 
employees and contractors. This policy includes 
our CEO’s signed commitment affirming their 
authorization and responsibility to stop work on 
any activity or situation believed to be a danger 
or risk, without the threat or fear of job reprisal. 
To reinforce accountability for safety results, 
our Board includes safety performance as a 
factor in our annual bonus program.
Performance  
Adherence to our OMS, careful contractor 
management, engaged leaders, training, and 
other initiatives contribute to our safety record. 
We believe that all members of our workforce, 
including employees and contractors, are 
leaders on the job site, and we hold them to the 
highest standards of personal conduct and safety 
performance. By investigating safety incidents 
and near misses, taking corrective actions, and 
sharing lessons learned, we reinforce that safety 
is a priority across our operations. As a result 
of our commitment and actions to create a safe 
work environment at our sites for all workers, 
Callon achieved our best safety year on record 
in 2020 with an OSHA Total Recordable Incident 
Rate (TRIR) of 0.54, which is well below the 
industry average of our peers. SAFETY
Protecting our 
employees, 
contractors, and 
communities is a 
core value at Callon 
and our top priority.
TRIR PERFORMANCE
10% Incident Rate Reduction
2020 20190.54  0.60Foreword          Environmental          Social          Governance          SASB Disclosure
OVERVIEW            SAFETY            WORKFORCE            OUR COMMUNITIESForeword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure FrameworksCALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 27We believe that all members of our workforce, 
including employees and contractors, are 
leaders on the job site, and we hold them to 
the highest standards of personal conduct 
and safety performance. Focus Areas for  
Workplace Safety
We are able to conduct our operations in a safe 
and responsible manner, as outlined within the 
framework and expectations of Callon’s OMS.  
Engaged Leadership  
Callon believes that active and engaged leaders 
play the essential role of establishing our safety 
culture. They do so by reinforcing our values, 
setting expectations, providing the necessary 
resources, and being accountable, and we 
emphasize this by making leadership the first 
element of our OMS. Our field employees, 
contractors, and leaders enhance our safety 
culture by actively participating in our behavior-
based safety program to address unsafe acts and 
conditions, as well as reinforcing our safe work 
practices and requirements. In addition, our field 
leaders conduct safety leadership engagements 
with contractors to verify alignment with our safety 
culture and requirements. We also ensure that our 
site supervisors have the necessary training and 
skills to manage their workplaces effectively.
Risk Management
The OMS Risk Assessment and Management 
element provides guidance to prevent workplace 
injuries, accidents, and fatalities. This involves 
pre-job planning to identify hazards related to 
work activities before work is initiated and to 
communicate the controls to mitigate risks. Pre-
job planning includes pre-job safety meetings, 
job safety analysis (JSA), safe work permits, and 
pre-startup safety reviews. Throughout work, 
periodic risk assessments are performed and 
specific levels of management address risks 
according to their risk ranking.Contractor Management 
Contractors make up a significant portion of 
Callon’s field workforce, and we believe they 
are an extension of our Company. The OMS 
Third-party Services element requires that 
all contractors acknowledge and adhere to  
Callon’s core values, Safety and Environmental 
Policy, and Environmental, Health, and Safety 
(EHS) Manual. Safety performance and programs 
are a priority factor when we select and 
assess contractors. Before working on Callon 
locations, contractors receive an orientation to 
understand our expectations and requirements, 
such as Life Saving Rules, incident reporting 
and management, safe driving, and Stop Work 
Authority. To ensure that contractors meet our 
expectations and requirements, we monitor and 
assess their performance, provide feedback, 
and correct deficiencies.
Training
Training is necessary to achieve our requirements 
and expectations for safe and efficient operations. 
Short-service field employees, including contract 
workers, who are new to the industry receive on 
average 27 hours of initial training to understand 
workplace hazards and personal safety. After 
the initial training, full-time field employees and 
contract workers received an average of 7 hours 
of continuing education and hazard awareness 
trainings in 2020, aimed at further enhancing 
their health, safety, and environmental baseline 
knowledge. 
As a responsible employer, Callon will continue to 
put the safety of our workforce and communities first.
Foreword          Environmental          Social          Governance          SASB Disclosure
Training is 
necessary to 
achieve our 
requirements 
and expectations 
for safe and 
efficient 
operations.OVERVIEW            SAFETY            WORKFORCE            OUR COMMUNITIESForeword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure FrameworksCALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 28Talented People Pursuing 
Common Goals
At Callon, our team comes first. We value every 
team member and foster an entrepreneurial 
environment where employees are treated with 
respect and given autonomy to take ownership 
of their work. With strong leadership and a 
passionate team, together we set out to achieve 
our personal and collective goals.
Engaged and Empowered 
Employees
There’s an energy and excitement at Callon 
that sets us apart. We empower our employees, 
engage them in decision-making at every 
level, and recognize their contributions to our 
success. We reinforce a culture of connection 
through quarterly town halls, access to senior 
leadership, team building events, and frequent 
communications about Company strategy, 
execution, and workplace matters. This enriching 
environment is reflected in our annual employee 
survey results for 2020, of which 93% of our 
employees participated. They commonly cited 
teamwork, integrity, and drive for excellence as 
valued Callon attributes. As a result, Callon was 
selected as a Top Workplace by the Houston 
Chronicle  for the fourth consecutive year.
Supporting Our Team
Our employees are the reason Callon is 
successful, and we support our team members 
with a competitive benefit package. Callon 
invests in the health and well-being of our 
employees and their families by paying 100% 
of the premiums for our health care plan, 
which includes telemedicine and an Employee 
Assistance Program (EAP). To help employees 
save for retirement, we sponsor a 401(k) plan 
that includes a 1:1 Company match of employee 
contributions up to 6%, and the potential for 
profit-sharing contributions. Callon continues 
to support employees throughout their careers 
with a competitive vacation policy, family leave, an educational assistance program, and a variety 
of insurance plans and other benefits. We do not 
require mandatory arbitration of our employees.
Fostering Diversity and  
Inclusion
At Callon, we believe that diversity of backgrounds 
and experiences contributes to an innovative 
workforce and an enriching environment for our 
team. Our goal is to assemble and inspire a team 
of passionate professionals in an environment 
where they can achieve their career goals. We 
are firmly committed to fostering an inclusive, 
respectful environment and providing equal 
opportunity to all qualified persons in our hiring, 
development, and compensation practices. At 
year-end 2020, 36% of our permanent, full-time 
employees represented minorities and 18% were 
female. Above the field level, 31% of our full-time 
employees were female. Within our management 
level, 25% of all managers were female.
Developing Team and  
Individual Capabilities
At Callon, we foster an entrepreneurial 
workplace where employees have autonomy 
to take ownership of their work and to grow 
professionally. As part of an aligned team 
working in a fast-paced environment, our 
employees gain outstanding experience 
by connecting their work to the Company’s 
strategic decisions. Our Company has enhanced 
opportunities for personal development and 
career growth. Since the beginning of 2020, 25% 
of our employees have benefited from a new 
role, developmental assignment, or promotion.
Since the outbreak of the global COVID-19 
pandemic in 2020, we have offered virtual in-
house training programs across the workforce 
on topics ranging from project management to 
presentation skills to leader development. This 
development approach boosted both team and 
individual capabilities to manage our assets 
safely, responsibly, and effectively.WORKFORCE
Based on employee feedback, 
Callon was selected as one of 
the Top Places to Work by the 
Houston Chronicle  in 2020 for the 
fourth consecutive year.
36%
Minorities
Female18%
DEMOGRAPHICS
At Callon, we will continue to find 
ways of diversifying our talent.  
At year-end 2020, our employee 
base included:Foreword          Environmental          Social          Governance          SASB Disclosure
OVERVIEW            SAFETY            WORKFORCE            OUR COMMUNITIES
Female
Above Field31%Foreword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure FrameworksCALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 29Making a Positive Impact
Part of Callon’s mission is to support strong, 
sustainable communities where we operate. The 
Company shares our employees’ commitment 
to being a good neighbor and a meaningful 
contributor in our communities.
Going the Extra Mile for 
Community Stakeholders
We recognize that we earn the right to operate 
every day and consider the safety of our 
communities to be non-negotiable. To prevent 
and mitigate safety, health, and environmental 
incidents, we voluntarily post our emergency 
call number in a visible place on each 
wellsite, facility, and lease entry, and a Callon 
team member responds timely to each call 
received. We assess the situation and respond 
appropriately — even if we determine that Callon 
is not responsible for the issue. 
When our work requires development projects 
near populated areas, we make every effort 
to mitigate the impact of our activities. Callon works closely with city officials and neighboring 
landowners to proactively address noise, 
traffic, greenhouse gas emissions, liquid spill 
prevention, and other risks to our communities. 
As a good community partner, when our 
operations are within a proximate distance 
to developed areas, Callon has proactively 
installed sound barriers to minimize operational 
disturbances to our neighbors. By going the 
extra mile, we demonstrate our willingness 
to work with our community and sustain our 
reputation as the preferred energy company in 
the Permian Basin. 
Human Rights
We have great respect for the protection 
and advancement of universally recognized 
human rights. All Company representatives are 
prohibited from engaging in any activity that 
supports, encourages, or is linked to forced 
labor, modern slavery, or human trafficking.
Please see our Code of Business Conduct and 
Ethics for more information on our commitment 
to human rights.OUR COMMUNITIES
Foreword          Environmental          Social          Governance          SASB Disclosure
Callon’s Lasso Recycle Facility: Each cell can store 500,000 barrels of treated produced water for a total capacity of one million barrels ready 
for completion activity. The treatment plant, as seen on the left side of the photo, can handle a max capacity of 40,000 barrels per day. Callon 
has recycled over 12,000,000 barrels of produced water from this facility since the summer of 2018.OVERVIEW            SAFETY            WORKFORCE            OUR COMMUNITIESForeword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure FrameworksCALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 30Addressing Local Needs
To help build strong communities, we focus our 
corporate philanthropic efforts on three areas 
we believe have meaningful impact, while 
remaining consistent with our values: 
 •Advancing education in underserved 
areas, especially those that support the 
communities where we operate
 •Supporting local community food banks 
and first responders, such as regional fire 
departments and hospitals
 •Improving and protecting the environments 
where we live and operate
At the start of the pandemic, Callon recognized 
the hurdles many communities were facing 
and decided on a broad approach to bridge 
the gap. Education has always been a pillar 
of giving for Callon, as we believe investing in 
education for our communities will help children 
and their families succeed in the future. During 
2020, the shift to remote learning brought to 
light the lack of available technology in many 
homes, especially those in rural areas of Texas. 
Recognizing this need, Callon partnered with 
Comp-U-Dopt, an organization whose mission is focused on creating access to computers, 
facilitating growth in technical and digital literacy 
skills, and supporting the future of youth in 
underserved communities. Together with their 
staff, we provided enough equipment and 
funding to support 150 families in the Permian 
Basin in West Texas and 50 families in the Eagle 
Ford Shale in South Texas.
We also partnered with Adopt-a-Classroom, 
an organization dedicated to advancing equity 
in education, one classroom at a time, by 
connecting teachers with donors to fund their 
classroom needs. During our fall 2020 campaign, 
we adopted 20 classrooms throughout our asset 
base, benefitting over 500 students across eight 
cities and six school districts.
In addition to supporting families and schools 
last year, we recognized that many children 
relied on their local school cafeteria for their 
dietary needs. Without in-person classes, there 
was a large unmet need for food. As such, we 
extended our support to all the regional food 
banks that supported the communities around 
our asset base.We purchased dry erase 
markers, counters, whiteboards, 
and other manipulatives to help 
us close the gap because of 
COVID-19. We will also purchase  
more hands-on manipulatives  
so we can get the students to 
have a concrete understanding 
of  the concept. Again, thank 
you for all you have done to 
help our students!”
TEACHER AT MISSOURI CITY MIDDLE 
SCHOOL, MISSOURI CITY, TX
Your donation was the highlight 
of my day and brought tears to 
my eyes! It lets me know that 
there are still amazing people in 
the world! Thanks to you, 130 
children, including exceptional 
learners, will have access to 
technology and manipulatives. 
Callon Petroleum, thank you 
once again for your generosity 
and selfless giving. It truly 
means the world to us!”
TEACHER AT FLOYD HOFFMAN  
MIDDLE SCHOOL, HOUSTON, TXCOMMUNITY PARTNERSHIPS
Some of the organizations that Callon supports from a corporate level include:
Foreword          Environmental          Social          Governance          SASB Disclosure
OVERVIEW            SAFETY            WORKFORCE            OUR COMMUNITIESForeword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure FrameworksCALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 31Callon has been a long-time partner of first 
responders throughout the Permian Basin and 
Eagle Ford regions.  In the past, we donated acreage 
and funded a new volunteer fire department 
location outside of Midland, Texas. We have also 
provided personal protective equipment (PPE) and  
monetary donations to regional fire departments  
to close their funding gap for equipment  
purchases, vehicle repairs, and upgrades.  
In 2020, Callon supported fire departments in 
four counties throughout our asset base. Funding 
was spent on much-needed equipment repairs, 
upgrades, and PPE requirements. 
Callon Cares Committees
We believe corporate stewardship is both a 
financial obligation and a social duty. Callon has 
established Callon Cares Committees comprised 
of local employees in our field locations to 
guide regional philanthropic efforts through 
volunteerism, donations, and leadership.  
Our Permian Callon Cares Committee has 
brought employees and families together 
for bowling and a school supply drive for 
Communities in School. They have also 
supported Habitat for Humanity and West Texas 
Food Bank with donations and volunteers, and 
made financial contributions to the Midland 
Education Foundation and other organizations.  
In 2020, the committee hosted a mask and 
school supply drive for a local elementary  school, collected supplies and personal 
essentials for foster care facilities and senior 
citizens, and sponsored a food drive for the local 
food pantry.
Our Eagle Ford employees have been long-
standing, active members of LEPCs (local 
emergency planning committees) in several 
counties, enabling them to build relationships 
with first responders and maintain readiness 
for emergencies. Through their extensive 
community connections, the Eagle Ford Callon 
Cares Committee can address a variety of local 
needs, such as providing Christmas gifts for at-
risk children.
In Houston, our employees donated surplus 
pantry items to the Memorial Hermann 
Emergency Room staff and EMTs in support 
of their overnight shift staff in 2020.  We also 
sponsored meals for our local county hospitals. 
Our philanthropy program also includes a 
charitable matching program for our employees 
who contribute to registered nonprofit 
organizations. As our employees donate, so does 
Callon. Our Charitable Contribution Company 
Matching Program matches approved employee 
contributions made to qualifying organizations 
up to $1,000 annually. This program was 
launched in 2019, and as of January 2021, we 
have distributed over $70,000 in matching 
funds to over 85 organizations.
Callon will continue to value the perspectives of 
our community stakeholders and strive to be a 
good neighbor.
The children loved their gifts. 
The young man who got the 
jersey and jeans said he hasn’t 
had a pair of jeans to wear to his 
basketball games, so he wore 
the team warm ups. ’Now I can 
dress like the other guys.’”
HIGH SCHOOL TEACHER FROM  
EAGLE FORD REGION
$1,000
The amount Callon’s Charitable 
Contribution Company Matching Program 
will match up to annually for approved 
employee contributions.
20%
There was a 20% increase in employee 
donation matching requests in 2020.
Callon employee Brian Daughtry presenting 
the company’s donation to the Cotulla, 
Texas fire department.  The funds helped 
the department purchase new hazmat 
equipment, wildfire protective gear, and new 
fire truck hoses.Foreword          Environmental          Social          Governance          SASB Disclosure
OVERVIEW            SAFETY            WORKFORCE            OUR COMMUNITIESForeword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure FrameworksOverview
Building Trust and Creating 
Long-term Value
Callon seeks to operate our business responsibly, ethically, and in a manner 
aligned with the interests of our stakeholders. We are committed to effective 
and sustainable corporate governance, which we believe strengthens 
accountability, promotes the long-term interests of our stakeholders, and 
helps build public trust in our Company. Our core values — responsibility, 
integrity, drive, respect, and excellence — support good governance and 
our efforts to integrate sustainable business practices and achieve long-
term results.
CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 32BOARD OF 
DIRECTORSPAY FOR  
PERFORMANCESHAREHOLDER 
ENGAGEMENTETHICS AND 
TRANSPARENCYENHANCED RISK 
OVERSIGHTOVERVIEWForeword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure FrameworksCALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 33Nearly half of the directors have less 
than five years’ tenure.Ten of our 11 board directors are 
independent, and a non-executive 
director serves as chair of the Board.
One minority and two female directors 
serve on our Board.The board met formally 16 times in 2020  
to address the challenges of COVID-19 
and related commodity price volatility.
We enhanced board oversight of ESG by expanding the scope and renaming our 
Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee the Nominating & ESG Committee.
5/1110/11
2/112020 Governance HighlightsThe Callon Board of Directors is responsible 
for providing oversight and direction to the 
management of our Company for the benefit 
of stakeholders. To assist the Board in fulfilling 
its responsibilities, our Corporate Governance 
Guidelines  describe foundational corporate 
governance policies and practices related to 
its composition, role, structure, and interaction 
with external constituencies. Our Code of 
Business Conduct and Ethics  and charters for 
the four standing Board committees provide 
additional guidance. 
With our mission to build trust, Callon 
recognizes the role our environmental, social, 
and governance (ESG) performance plays in 
fostering business sustainability. As part of 
its corporate governance responsibilities, 
our Board regularly addresses our progress 
in safeguarding our team and communities, 
minimizing our environmental impacts, and 
developing and diversifying our workforce. 
In early 2020, we strengthened the ESG 
oversight role of the Board’s Nominating 
and Governance Committee to ensure we focus our time, resources, and engagements 
effectively to achieve our ESG goals. The 
committee was then renamed the Nominating 
and ESG Committee.
We continuously assess our corporate 
governance principles and practices to ensure 
they are effective and help us perform to the 
high ethical standards we set for ourselves. 
Callon reviews our Corporate Governance 
Guidelines, Code, and other governance 
documents annually, or more often if business 
needs warrant it. 
To enhance our board effectiveness and  
governance practices, in 2020 the Board 
engaged a third-party advisory firm to conduct 
its annual board evaluation process and provide 
benchmarking on best practices.We continuously 
assess our corporate 
governance principles 
and practices to 
ensure they are 
effective and help us 
perform to the high 
ethical standards we 
set for ourselves. 
16BOARD OF 
DIRECTORSPAY FOR  
PERFORMANCESHAREHOLDER 
ENGAGEMENTETHICS AND 
TRANSPARENCYENHANCED RISK 
OVERSIGHTOVERVIEWForeword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure FrameworksCALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 34Ensuring Effective Oversight 
from Our Board of Directors
At Callon, we believe that a Board with a variety 
of skills and perspectives enhances constructive 
discussion and decision-making among the 
directors, allowing the Board to perform its 
strategic and oversight roles satisfactorily  
for our stakeholders. We are committed to 
building a diverse Board of individuals with 
different backgrounds, professional experiences, 
education, gender, race or ethnicity, age, and 
other individual qualifications and attributes, and 
we have adopted a Board diversity policy within 
our Corporate Governance Guidelines. When our 
Nominating and ESG Committee considers new 
candidates for the Board, they instruct search 
firms to seek to present women and minorities 
among the candidates. Two women and one 
minority serve as Callon directors.
Independent directors offer different perspectives 
to our Board that contribute to developing a 
sustainable corporate strategy. Callon maintains 
an independent Board of Directors in accordance 
with New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) standards, 
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rules and regulations, and our Corporate 
Governance Guidelines. We have a policy 
that requires the majority of the Board to be 
independent, and ten of 11 Board members met 
the qualifications for independence in 2020; only 
the chief executive officer (CEO) did not qualify as 
independent. In 2020, the roles of Chairman and 
CEO were separate, with the Chairman meeting 
the qualifications for independence.
In 2020, the Nominating & ESG Committee and 
the Board enhanced their focus on long-term 
board composition, diversity, and succession, 
with the objective of developing a view of the 
key skills and experiences needed at the board 
level to support the Company’s strategy in the 
evolving energy landscape.  As part of this 
evaluation, the Board adopted a retirement policy 
as a governance best practice and in support of 
continuing refreshment of board composition. 
Under the policy, an independent director will 
retire in conjunction with the annual meeting of 
stockholders prior to his or her 75th birthday, 
except in special circumstances upon the request 
of a majority of the Board (not including the 
subject director). BOARD OF DIRECTORS
One minority  and  
Two female  directors
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Less than five years’  tenure  
for nearly half the directors
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ten directors are independent,  
and a non-executive director 
serves as chair of the BoardStanding Committees of Callon Petroleum Board
1
2
3
4NOMINATING & ESG  
Focuses on issues relating to corporate governance, ESG matters, and Board committee 
composition. It also assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities with respect to 
succession planning for our directors and executive officers.
COMPENSATION  
Establishes our compensation programs, oversees their alignment with our business 
strategies, and reviews our compensation policies to ensure they do not encourage 
unnecessary or excessive risk-taking by management.
OPERATIONS & RESERVES  
Oversees production operations, the Company’s long-term resource development 
strategy, and the integrity of our reserves estimation reporting process.AUDIT 
Oversees material risk exposures in the areas of financial reporting, internal controls, 
compliance, hedging, and cybersecurity.DIVERSITY
REFRESHMENT
INDEPENDENCE/211
/511
/1011BOARD OF 
DIRECTORSPAY FOR  
PERFORMANCESHAREHOLDER 
ENGAGEMENTETHICS AND 
TRANSPARENCYENHANCED RISK 
OVERSIGHTOVERVIEWForeword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure FrameworksCALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 35Gender Diversity
Minority DiversityAge (as of April 1, 2021) 72
769
2 Tenure (as of April 1, 2021)NameJames M.
TrimbleSteven A.
Webster
65
2Frances Aldrich
Sevilla-Sacasa
64
761
365
673
1750
365
273
1470
10Barbara J.
FaulkenberryMichael L.
FinchL. Richard 
FluryJoseph C.
Gatto, Jr.S.P.
Johnson IVLarry D.
McVayAnthony J.
NocchieroMatthew R.
BobCHAIRMAN
CEO/President
Experience
Senior Executive
Leadership
Outside Public Boards
(Current)
Outside Public Boards
(Prior)
E&P Industry 
Experience
Financial Expert
Financial Literacy
Financial Oversight/
Accounting
Petroleum and 
Other Engineering
Geologist or
Geophysicist
HES Experience/
Environmental
Strategic Advising
Investment Banking
Supply Chain
Technology/IT/
CybersecurityEnergy (Other than E&P)
Industry Experience
Government/
Public Policy/
Regulatory
Current Composition of the BoardBOARD OF 
DIRECTORSPAY FOR  
PERFORMANCESHAREHOLDER 
ENGAGEMENTETHICS AND 
TRANSPARENCYENHANCED RISK 
OVERSIGHTOVERVIEWForeword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure FrameworksCALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 36Enhanced Risk Oversight
As companies compete in a highly complex business and legal environment, prudent risk management 
is essential for sustainable operations and for creating durable shareholder returns. Callon has enhanced 
our risk oversight and risk management by integrating formal enterprise risk management processes  
involving our Board and management with our internal audit function. These ongoing, linked 
processes ensure we assess, identify, rank, and mitigate the most material risks to Callon, and the 
Board and management regularly reassess the effectiveness of these processes. 
The Callon management team has daily responsibility for assessing and managing material 
operational and financial risks to the Company, and our Board provides oversight of risk management 
as well as the Company’s long-term strategic direction. We believe this provides assurance that 
risks we undertake are consistent with the Board’s risk tolerance. This Board leadership structure, 
coupled with a high degree of interaction among our directors and senior leaders, facilitates the 
Board’s oversight function and ensures information flow and communication throughout the year. 
While the full Board is ultimately responsible for risk oversight, each Board committee has primary 
risk oversight within its specific areas of responsibility. 
For a comprehensive discussion of material risks Callon has identified, please refer to our Form 10-K  
for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020.ENHANCED RISK OVERSIGHT
STRATEGIC
FINANCIAL OPERATIONAL
LEGAL ESGSEVERITYFREQUENCY
ONSET SPEEDRISKENTERPRISE RISK 
MANAGEMENT  
A practice governed by the Board and led 
by executive management, which focuses 
on both current and emerging risks, 
allowing Callon to protect stakeholder 
interests by integrating targeted mitigation 
efforts into its corporate planning process.Callon has enhanced 
our risk oversight 
and risk management 
by integrating formal 
enterprise risk 
management 
processes involving 
our Board and 
management with 
our internal audit 
function.BOARD OF 
DIRECTORSPAY FOR  
PERFORMANCESHAREHOLDER 
ENGAGEMENTETHICS AND 
TRANSPARENCYENHANCED RISK 
OVERSIGHTOVERVIEWForeword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure FrameworksCALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 37Executive Compensation 
that Pays for Performance
Callon’s executive compensation program is 
designed to reward the management team 
for delivering results consistent with our long-
term strategic objectives and to align with our 
shareholders’ interests. The Compensation 
Committee, which is made up entirely of 
independent directors, strives to evolve Callon’s 
compensation to reflect shifts in shareholder 
priorities. Our compensation program is heavily 
weighted to “at-risk” compensation delivered 
through annual cash incentives and long-term 
incentive awards. The committee believes this 
approach provides incentives for our named 
executive officers (NEOs) to enhance shareholder 
value, successfully implement our business 
plan, and continuously improve corporate and 
individual performance.We believe our compensation program 
incorporates many sound practices, such 
as substantial focus on performance-based  
pay, strong alignment with shareholder 
returns, peer group benchmarking of executive 
compensation, and robust stock ownership 
guidelines for NEOs and directors. Callon 
also has a peer-leading clawback policy 
that establishes conditions under which 
the Committee may recoup previously paid 
compensation in the event of error, misconduct, 
or certain other circumstances. 
The Compensation Committee evaluates 
Callon’s incentive programs annually. For 
2020, the committee added an absolute total 
shareholder return (TSR) modifier to the 2020 
performance share unit grants that reduces 
outcomes if TSR is less than 5% over the 
performance period, creating a further tie to 
Following a comprehensive review of its executive compensation structure, in the first quarter 
of 2021 the Compensation Committee adopted a leading-edge compensation program to align 
with investor priorities and drive sustainable results. The 2021 program features the following: 
 •A refreshed executive compensation program aligned with sustained delivery of free 
cash flow, returns, reduced leverage, and ESG performance
 •Reductions in overall compensation opportunities, led by a 17.5% reduction in target long-
term incentive (‟ LTI”) value for the CEO, which lowered his total target compensation by 
12.5%, and a 12.5% reduction in annual compensation for directors
 •New annual bonus framework that prioritizes financial performance and ESG initiatives, 
eliminates traditional operational and growth metrics, and caps payouts at target in the 
event of negative total shareholder return (‟ TSR”)
 •New LTI program that maintains a 60% weighting on performance-based LTI with 
performance units tied to free cash flow and return on capital employed (‟ ROCE” ) 
performance over a three-year periodPAY FOR PERFORMANCE
The Compensation 
Committee, which  
is made up entirely  
of independent 
directors, strives  
to evolve Callon’s 
compensation to 
reflect shifts in 
shareholder priorities.BOARD OF 
DIRECTORSPAY FOR  
PERFORMANCESHAREHOLDER 
ENGAGEMENTETHICS AND 
TRANSPARENCYENHANCED RISK 
OVERSIGHTOVERVIEWForeword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure FrameworksCALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 38>90%
Over 90% of votes cast were in favor of our 
executive compensation program for the 
past five years.
Compensation Program Governance Practices 
Strong alignment with shareholder returns 
through significant weighting on long-term 
incentivesNO employment agreements
NO single trigger change in control benefitsReview of peer group benchmarks when 
establishing compensation
Clawback policy applies in the event of error, 
fraud, or misconduct
Double-trigger change in control severance for 
both cash severance and equity vestingNO excessive benefits or perquisitesSubstantial focus on performance-based pay
Robust stock ownership guidelines for our 
NEOs and directorsNO hedging or pledging of our stock
absolute shareholder returns. Following the 
outbreak of the global COVID-19 pandemic, 
our officers and directors temporarily agreed 
to reduce their compensation, and the 
Compensation Committee ultimately exercised 
downward discretion for 2020 bonus payouts 
in recognition of stock price performance.
We believe our ESG initiatives, along with our 
corporate goals of meaningful free cash flow 
generation, absolute debt reduction, and returns 
on capital, will create shareholder value.
The Compensation Committee continues to 
review shareholder votes and feedback to 
ensure our executive compensation programs 
align with their interests. Additional details about 
Callon’s executive compensation program are 
available in our 2021 proxy statement.BOARD OF 
DIRECTORSPAY FOR  
PERFORMANCESHAREHOLDER 
ENGAGEMENTETHICS AND 
TRANSPARENCYENHANCED RISK 
OVERSIGHTOVERVIEWForeword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure FrameworksCALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 39Shareholder Engagement
At Callon, we believe delivering value to our stakeholders requires alignment. Our governance 
structure and ongoing engagements with shareholders, employees, and communities where we 
operated in 2020 helped position us to achieve our corporate goals. 
We take shareholder feedback into consideration when planning our ESG activities. Callon’s Investor 
Relations team facilitates engagement with shareholders, and feedback from these engagements are 
collected and shared with leadership. During 2020, feedback from our various shareholders covered 
corporate strategy, risk management, executive compensation, and ESG initiatives. In addition to 
shareholder engagement, we also proactively engage with ESG rating agencies to better align our 
ESG disclosures. The material included in this report is a result of these discussions and what we 
believe are the most significant priorities to all our stakeholders.  We hope to continue expanding our 
sustainability disclosures as our business evolves.SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
BOARD OF 
DIRECTORSPAY FOR  
PERFORMANCESHAREHOLDER 
ENGAGEMENTETHICS AND 
TRANSPARENCYENHANCED RISK 
OVERSIGHTOVERVIEWForeword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure FrameworksCALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 40Committed to Being a  
Responsible Corporate Citizen
Callon has built a strong foundation over our 70-
year history as a trusted partner in business and 
in our communities. Our core value of integrity 
drives us to strive to do the right thing by being 
open, honest, ethical, and genuine. We do what 
we say and are accountable for our actions. 
Callon’s integrity, reputation, and success 
depend on the individual actions of our 
employees, directors, and others acting on 
the Company’s behalf. Our Code of Business 
Conduct and Ethics and related policies set out 
our expectation that team members, including 
employees, contractors, and vendors, maintain 
high ethical standards and comply with all 
applicable legal requirements when conducting 
Callon’s business.
The Code covers topics ranging from conflicts 
of interest and equal employment opportunity to 
anti-harassment, anti-corruption, and compliance 
with applicable laws. The Code also explicitly 
prohibits directors, officers, and employees 
from engaging in insider trading or hedging 
transactions in Callon stock. 
All employees are required to commit to the Code 
of Business Conduct annually, acknowledging 
their understanding of and compliance with its key 
policies, and we conduct annual Code training. We encourage Callon team members to bring 
any issues or concerns to their supervisor, 
human resources, the legal organization, or a 
member of the leadership team. In addition, 
we have a toll-free ethics hotline available for 
anonymous, confidential reporting at 1-844-471-
7637 and online at callon.ethicspoint.com. 
Callon does not permit any form of retribution 
or retaliation against any person who makes 
a good-faith report of known or suspected 
violations of the Code or suspected illegal or 
unethical conduct. 
Political Engagement 
Consistent with our Code of Business Conduct, 
Callon does not make corporate contributions 
to individual candidates or political committees 
supporting candidates in federal, state, or local 
elections. We do not sponsor a political action 
committee, and we encourage employees to 
vote and support the candidates and parties 
of their choice. To communicate our views on 
legislative and regulatory matters affecting 
our operations and industry, we engage in the 
legislative and regulatory processes through 
various trade associations.ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY
70+
For over 70 years, Callon has been 
a trusted partner in business and 
in the communities in which it 
operates.
 
Anonymous ethics concerns  
can be reported online at  
callon.ethicspoint.com or by  
phone at 1-844-471-7637.
Our core value of integrity drives Callon to always 
strive to do the right thing by being open, honest, 
ethical, and genuine.BOARD OF 
DIRECTORSPAY FOR  
PERFORMANCESHAREHOLDER 
ENGAGEMENTETHICS AND 
TRANSPARENCYENHANCED RISK 
OVERSIGHTOVERVIEWForeword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure FrameworksCALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 41
Total Permanent, Full-Time Employees
Women, as a % of Workforce
Minorities, as a % of Workforce
Percent of Workforce represented by Union
*2019 workforce statistics reﬂect Callon’s post-merger full-time, permanent workforce as of January 10, 2020.337
20%
35%
0%Voluntary Disclosure
Voluntary Disclosure
Voluntary Disclosure
Voluntary DisclosureNumber
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)303
18%
36%
0%
10-K / 10-Q Risks section EM-EP-530a.1 n/a5,010
34%
4,183
36%
1,484
3,024
8,691
1,484
15,854
0%
91%
9%
0
100%
>90%
Page 11-12EM-EP-140a.1
EM-EP-140a.1
EM-EP-140a.1
EM-EP-140a.1
Voluntary disclosure
Voluntary disclosure
Voluntary disclosure
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.3
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-140a.4Thousand Cubic 
Meters (m3 )
Percentage (%)
Thousand Cubic 
Meters (m3 )
Percentage (%)
Thousand Cubic 
Meters (m3 )
Thousand Cubic
Meters (m3 )
Thousand Cubic
Meters (m3 )
Thousand Cubic
Meters (m3 )
Thousand Cubic
Meters (m3 )
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
Metric tons (t)
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
n/aTotal fresh water withdrawn
Percentage of total fresh water withdrawn in regions with
High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress
Total fresh water consumed
Percentage of fresh water consumed in regions with
High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress
Total volume of Recycled Produced Water consumed
Total volume of Non Fresh Water consumed
Total volume of water consumed
Total volume of Recycled Produced Water
Volume of produced water and ﬂowback generated
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback discharged
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback injected
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback recycled
Hydrocarbon content in discharged water
Percentage of hydraulically fractured wells for which there
is public disclosure of all fracturing ﬂuid chemicals used
Percentage of produced water on pipe
Discussion of policies and practices related to ground and
surface water quality management
Discussion of environmental management
policies and practices for active sites
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon
spills to the environment
Number of hydrocarbon spills to the environment
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills in the Arctic
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills
impacting shorelines with ESI rankings 8-10
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon recovered from the environment
Total Fluids Spill Rate
Percentage of proved reserves in or near sites with protected
conservation status or endangered species habitat
Percentage of probable reserves in or near sites with protected
conservation status or endangered species habitat
Volume of hazardous waste generated and disposed3,230
35%
2,014
46%
773
1,272
4,059
953
15,313
0%
94%
6%
0
100%
>90%
Page 20-21DEFINITION UNIT OF MEASURE SASB METRIC 2019 2020
1,450,165
118,929
27.3
28%
7.64
100%
544,678
7%
523,029
0
372,216
10,242
Page 8-10
--EM-EP-110a.1
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-110a.1
EM-EP-110a.1
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-110a.1
EM-EP-110a.2
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-110a.2
EM-EP-110a.2
EM-EP-110a.2
EM-EP-110a.2
EM-EP-110a.3
EM-EP-110a.3Metric tons CO₂-e(t)
Metric tons CO₂-e(t)
Metric tons CO₂-e(t)/
production (MBOE)
Percentage (%)
Metric tons CO₂-e(t)/
production (MBOE)
Percentage (%)
Metric tons CO₂-e
Percentage (%)
Metric tons CO₂-e
Metric tons CO₂-e
Metric tons CO₂-e
Metric tons CO₂-e
n/a
n/a Gross Scope 1 GHG Emissions
Gross Scope 2 GHG Emissions
Gross Scope 1 GHG Intensity Rate
Gross Scope 1 Methane Emissions
as a percentage of GHG Emissions
Gross Scope 1 Methane Intensity
Percentage of Scope 1 GHG Emissions covered
under emissions-limiting regulations
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from ﬂared hydrocarbons
Flare Percent, as a percent of gas produced
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from other combustion
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from process emissions
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from other vented emissions
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from fugitive emissions
Long-term and short-term strategy or plan
to manage Scope 1 emissions
Emissions reduction targets and analysis
of performance against those targets995,625
116,292
19.7
29%
5.70
100%
298,711
4%
429,557
0
256,359
10,998
Page 16-19
Page 16-17Greenhouse Gas Emissions
EM-EP-120a.1
EM-EP-120a.1
EM-EP-120a.1
EM-EP-120a.1Metric tons (t)
Metric tons (t)
Metric tons (t)
Metric tons (t)Nitrogen Oxide (NO) Emissions
Sulfur Dioxide (SO₂ ) Emissions
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) Emissions
Particulate Matter (PM10) Emissions12,955
1,015
242,410
33015,098
1,485
265,714
257Air Quality
Water Management
--
715
35
0
0
567
115
0%
0%
--EM-EP-160a.1
EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.2
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-160a.3
EM-EP-160a.3
Voluntary disclosuren/a
Barrels (bbls)
Number
Barrels (bbls)
Barrels (bbls)
Barrels (bbls)
Barrels of total ﬂuids
spilled/million barrels
produced
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
Cubic Yards (yd3 )Page 7, 13-15
134.9
31
0
0
28.5
39
0%
0%
10Biodiversity Impacts
Total recordable incident rate (TRIR)
Fatality Rate 
Near miss frequency rate (NMFR)
Average hours of health, safety, and emergency response training
for full-time ﬁeld and contract employees
Average hours of health, safety, and emergency response
training short-service employees
Discussion of management systems used to integrate a culture of
safety throughout the exploration and production life cycle0.60
0
0.65*
18
37
Page 19-20EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.2Number of work-related
injuries and illnesses
per 200,000 workhours
Rate
Rate
Hours (h)
Hours (h)
n/a0.54
0
0.88
7
27
Page 7, 26-27Workforce Health & Safety
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves in countries
that have the 20 lowest rankings in Transparency International’s
Corruption Perception Index
Description of the management system for prevention of 
corruption and bribery throughout the value chain0% EM-EP-510a.1
EM-EP-510a.2Percentage (%)
n/a0%Business Ethics & TransparencyEstimated carbon dioxide emissions
embedded in proved hydrocarbon reserves
Invested amount vs. revenue generated 
by renewable energy sales
Discussion of how price and demand for hydrocarbons and/or
climate regulation inﬂuence the capital expenditure strategy
for exploration, acquisition, and development of assets 61,238,606
$273,750
10-K / 10-Q Risks and MD&A section
Refer to Code of Business Conduct and EthicsEM-EP-420a.2
EM-EP-420a.3
EM-EP-420a.4Metric tons (t) CO₂-e
Reporting Currency
n/a53,966,975
$303,600Reserves Valuation & Capital Expenditures
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable
reserves in or near areas of conﬂict
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable
reserves in or near indigenous land
Discussion of engagement processes and due diligence
practices with respect to human rights, indigenous rights,
and operation in areas of conﬂict0%
0%
--0%
0%
Page 29EM-EP-210a.1
EM-EP-210a.2
EM-EP-210a.3Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
n/aSecurity, Human Rights, & Rights of Indigenous Peoples
Discussion of process to manage risks and opportunities
associated with community rights and interests
Number and duration of non-technical delaysPage 23
0Page 29
0EM-EP-210b.1
EM-EP-210b.2n/a
Number, DaysCommunity Relations
Discussion of corporate positions related to government regulations 
and/or policy proposals that address environmental 
and social factors aﬀecting the industryManagement of the Legal & Regulatory EnvironmentWorkforce*
Oil production, total gross
Natural Gas production, total gross
Synthetic oil production
Synthetic gas production
Number of oﬀshore sites
Number of terrestrial sites EM-EP-000.A
EM-EP-000.A
EM-EP-000.A
EM-EP-000.A
EM-EP-000.B
EM-EP-000.C105
246
0
0
0
094
265
0
0
0
0Mbbl/day
MMscf/day
Mbbl/day
MMscf/day
Number
NumberProcess Safety Event (PSE) rates for 
Loss of Primary Containment (LOPC) of greater consequence (Tier 1)
Description of management systems used to identify 
and mitigate catastrophic and tail-end risksEM-EP-540a.1
EM-EP-540a.20.34
Page 7, 36--
--Rate
n/aCritical Incident Risk Management
Activity Metrics*Revised from prior disclosure of 0.90.Quantitative Results
In this section, we disclose quantitative information about our ESG performance that we believe is of value to our stakeholders. Based on 
investor feedback, we are using the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) standards for Oil and Gas – Exploration & Production to 
report our results, including quantitative metrics and qualitative examples. All 2019 data have been updated to reflect pro forma Callon results. 
2019 Air Quality data has been updated to reflect updated gas analysis and BTU values which are consistent with 2020 GHG methodologies.SASB DISCLOSURES          TCFD DISCLOSURESForeword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure FrameworksCALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 42
Total Permanent, Full-Time Employees
Women, as a % of Workforce
Minorities, as a % of Workforce
Percent of Workforce represented by Union
*2019 workforce statistics reﬂect Callon’s post-merger full-time, permanent workforce as of January 10, 2020.337
20%
35%
0%Voluntary Disclosure
Voluntary Disclosure
Voluntary Disclosure
Voluntary DisclosureNumber
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)303
18%
36%
0%
10-K / 10-Q Risks section EM-EP-530a.1 n/a5,010
34%
4,183
36%
1,484
3,024
8,691
1,484
15,854
0%
91%
9%
0
100%
>90%
Page 11-12EM-EP-140a.1
EM-EP-140a.1
EM-EP-140a.1
EM-EP-140a.1
Voluntary disclosure
Voluntary disclosure
Voluntary disclosure
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.3
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-140a.4Thousand Cubic 
Meters (m3 )
Percentage (%)
Thousand Cubic 
Meters (m3 )
Percentage (%)
Thousand Cubic 
Meters (m3 )
Thousand Cubic
Meters (m3 )
Thousand Cubic
Meters (m3 )
Thousand Cubic
Meters (m3 )
Thousand Cubic
Meters (m3 )
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
Metric tons (t)
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
n/aTotal fresh water withdrawn
Percentage of total fresh water withdrawn in regions with
High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress
Total fresh water consumed
Percentage of fresh water consumed in regions with
High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress
Total volume of Recycled Produced Water consumed
Total volume of Non Fresh Water consumed
Total volume of water consumed
Total volume of Recycled Produced Water
Volume of produced water and ﬂowback generated
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback discharged
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback injected
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback recycled
Hydrocarbon content in discharged water
Percentage of hydraulically fractured wells for which there
is public disclosure of all fracturing ﬂuid chemicals used
Percentage of produced water on pipe
Discussion of policies and practices related to ground and
surface water quality management
Discussion of environmental management
policies and practices for active sites
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon
spills to the environment
Number of hydrocarbon spills to the environment
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills in the Arctic
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills
impacting shorelines with ESI rankings 8-10
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon recovered from the environment
Total Fluids Spill Rate
Percentage of proved reserves in or near sites with protected
conservation status or endangered species habitat
Percentage of probable reserves in or near sites with protected
conservation status or endangered species habitat
Volume of hazardous waste generated and disposed3,230
35%
2,014
46%
773
1,272
4,059
953
15,313
0%
94%
6%
0
100%
>90%
Page 20-21DEFINITION UNIT OF MEASURE SASB METRIC 2019 2020
1,450,165
118,929
27.3
28%
7.64
100%
544,678
7%
523,029
0
372,216
10,242
Page 8-10
--EM-EP-110a.1
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-110a.1
EM-EP-110a.1
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-110a.1
EM-EP-110a.2
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-110a.2
EM-EP-110a.2
EM-EP-110a.2
EM-EP-110a.2
EM-EP-110a.3
EM-EP-110a.3Metric tons CO₂-e(t)
Metric tons CO₂-e(t)
Metric tons CO₂-e(t)/
production (MBOE)
Percentage (%)
Metric tons CO₂-e(t)/
production (MBOE)
Percentage (%)
Metric tons CO₂-e
Percentage (%)
Metric tons CO₂-e
Metric tons CO₂-e
Metric tons CO₂-e
Metric tons CO₂-e
n/a
n/a Gross Scope 1 GHG Emissions
Gross Scope 2 GHG Emissions
Gross Scope 1 GHG Intensity Rate
Gross Scope 1 Methane Emissions
as a percentage of GHG Emissions
Gross Scope 1 Methane Intensity
Percentage of Scope 1 GHG Emissions covered
under emissions-limiting regulations
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from ﬂared hydrocarbons
Flare Percent, as a percent of gas produced
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from other combustion
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from process emissions
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from other vented emissions
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from fugitive emissions
Long-term and short-term strategy or plan
to manage Scope 1 emissions
Emissions reduction targets and analysis
of performance against those targets995,625
116,292
19.7
29%
5.70
100%
298,711
4%
429,557
0
256,359
10,998
Page 16-19
Page 16-17Greenhouse Gas Emissions
EM-EP-120a.1
EM-EP-120a.1
EM-EP-120a.1
EM-EP-120a.1Metric tons (t)
Metric tons (t)
Metric tons (t)
Metric tons (t)Nitrogen Oxide (NO) Emissions
Sulfur Dioxide (SO₂ ) Emissions
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) Emissions
Particulate Matter (PM10) Emissions12,955
1,015
242,410
33015,098
1,485
265,714
257Air Quality
Water Management
--
715
35
0
0
567
115
0%
0%
--EM-EP-160a.1
EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.2
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-160a.3
EM-EP-160a.3
Voluntary disclosuren/a
Barrels (bbls)
Number
Barrels (bbls)
Barrels (bbls)
Barrels (bbls)
Barrels of total ﬂuids
spilled/million barrels
produced
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
Cubic Yards (yd3 )Page 7, 13-15
134.9
31
0
0
28.5
39
0%
0%
10Biodiversity Impacts
Total recordable incident rate (TRIR)
Fatality Rate 
Near miss frequency rate (NMFR)
Average hours of health, safety, and emergency response training
for full-time ﬁeld and contract employees
Average hours of health, safety, and emergency response
training short-service employees
Discussion of management systems used to integrate a culture of
safety throughout the exploration and production life cycle0.60
0
0.65*
18
37
Page 19-20EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.2Number of work-related
injuries and illnesses
per 200,000 workhours
Rate
Rate
Hours (h)
Hours (h)
n/a0.54
0
0.88
7
27
Page 7, 26-27Workforce Health & Safety
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves in countries
that have the 20 lowest rankings in Transparency International’s
Corruption Perception Index
Description of the management system for prevention of 
corruption and bribery throughout the value chain0% EM-EP-510a.1
EM-EP-510a.2Percentage (%)
n/a0%Business Ethics & TransparencyEstimated carbon dioxide emissions
embedded in proved hydrocarbon reserves
Invested amount vs. revenue generated 
by renewable energy sales
Discussion of how price and demand for hydrocarbons and/or
climate regulation inﬂuence the capital expenditure strategy
for exploration, acquisition, and development of assets 61,238,606
$273,750
10-K / 10-Q Risks and MD&A section
Refer to Code of Business Conduct and EthicsEM-EP-420a.2
EM-EP-420a.3
EM-EP-420a.4Metric tons (t) CO₂-e
Reporting Currency
n/a53,966,975
$303,600Reserves Valuation & Capital Expenditures
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable
reserves in or near areas of conﬂict
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable
reserves in or near indigenous land
Discussion of engagement processes and due diligence
practices with respect to human rights, indigenous rights,
and operation in areas of conﬂict0%
0%
--0%
0%
Page 29EM-EP-210a.1
EM-EP-210a.2
EM-EP-210a.3Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
n/aSecurity, Human Rights, & Rights of Indigenous Peoples
Discussion of process to manage risks and opportunities
associated with community rights and interests
Number and duration of non-technical delaysPage 23
0Page 29
0EM-EP-210b.1
EM-EP-210b.2n/a
Number, DaysCommunity Relations
Discussion of corporate positions related to government regulations 
and/or policy proposals that address environmental 
and social factors aﬀecting the industryManagement of the Legal & Regulatory EnvironmentWorkforce*
Oil production, total gross
Natural Gas production, total gross
Synthetic oil production
Synthetic gas production
Number of oﬀshore sites
Number of terrestrial sites EM-EP-000.A
EM-EP-000.A
EM-EP-000.A
EM-EP-000.A
EM-EP-000.B
EM-EP-000.C105
246
0
0
0
094
265
0
0
0
0Mbbl/day
MMscf/day
Mbbl/day
MMscf/day
Number
NumberProcess Safety Event (PSE) rates for 
Loss of Primary Containment (LOPC) of greater consequence (Tier 1)
Description of management systems used to identify 
and mitigate catastrophic and tail-end risksEM-EP-540a.1
EM-EP-540a.20.34
Page 7, 36--
--Rate
n/aCritical Incident Risk Management
Activity Metrics*Revised from prior disclosure of 0.90.Total Permanent, Full-Time Employees
Women, as a % of Workforce
Minorities, as a % of Workforce
Percent of Workforce represented by Union
*2019 workforce statistics reﬂect Callon’s post-merger full-time, permanent workforce as of January 10, 2020.337
20%
35%
0%Voluntary Disclosure
Voluntary Disclosure
Voluntary Disclosure
Voluntary DisclosureNumber
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)303
18%
36%
0%
10-K / 10-Q Risks section EM-EP-530a.1 n/a5,010
34%
4,183
36%
1,484
3,024
8,691
1,484
15,854
0%
91%
9%
0
100%
>90%
Page 11-12EM-EP-140a.1
EM-EP-140a.1
EM-EP-140a.1
EM-EP-140a.1
Voluntary disclosure
Voluntary disclosure
Voluntary disclosure
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.3
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-140a.4Thousand Cubic 
Meters (m3 )
Percentage (%)
Thousand Cubic 
Meters (m3 )
Percentage (%)
Thousand Cubic 
Meters (m3 )
Thousand Cubic
Meters (m3 )
Thousand Cubic
Meters (m3 )
Thousand Cubic
Meters (m3 )
Thousand Cubic
Meters (m3 )
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
Metric tons (t)
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
n/aTotal fresh water withdrawn
Percentage of total fresh water withdrawn in regions with
High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress
Total fresh water consumed
Percentage of fresh water consumed in regions with
High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress
Total volume of Recycled Produced Water consumed
Total volume of Non Fresh Water consumed
Total volume of water consumed
Total volume of Recycled Produced Water
Volume of produced water and ﬂowback generated
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback discharged
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback injected
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback recycled
Hydrocarbon content in discharged water
Percentage of hydraulically fractured wells for which there
is public disclosure of all fracturing ﬂuid chemicals used
Percentage of produced water on pipe
Discussion of policies and practices related to ground and
surface water quality management
Discussion of environmental management
policies and practices for active sites
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon
spills to the environment
Number of hydrocarbon spills to the environment
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills in the Arctic
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills
impacting shorelines with ESI rankings 8-10
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon recovered from the environment
Total Fluids Spill Rate
Percentage of proved reserves in or near sites with protected
conservation status or endangered species habitat
Percentage of probable reserves in or near sites with protected
conservation status or endangered species habitat
Volume of hazardous waste generated and disposed3,230
35%
2,014
46%
773
1,272
4,059
953
15,313
0%
94%
6%
0
100%
>90%
Page 20-21DEFINITION UNIT OF MEASURE SASB METRIC 2019 2020
1,450,165
118,929
27.3
28%
7.64
100%
544,678
7%
523,029
0
372,216
10,242
Page 8-10
--EM-EP-110a.1
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-110a.1
EM-EP-110a.1
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-110a.1
EM-EP-110a.2
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-110a.2
EM-EP-110a.2
EM-EP-110a.2
EM-EP-110a.2
EM-EP-110a.3
EM-EP-110a.3Metric tons CO₂-e(t)
Metric tons CO₂-e(t)
Metric tons CO₂-e(t)/
production (MBOE)
Percentage (%)
Metric tons CO₂-e(t)/
production (MBOE)
Percentage (%)
Metric tons CO₂-e
Percentage (%)
Metric tons CO₂-e
Metric tons CO₂-e
Metric tons CO₂-e
Metric tons CO₂-e
n/a
n/a Gross Scope 1 GHG Emissions
Gross Scope 2 GHG Emissions
Gross Scope 1 GHG Intensity Rate
Gross Scope 1 Methane Emissions
as a percentage of GHG Emissions
Gross Scope 1 Methane Intensity
Percentage of Scope 1 GHG Emissions covered
under emissions-limiting regulations
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from ﬂared hydrocarbons
Flare Percent, as a percent of gas produced
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from other combustion
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from process emissions
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from other vented emissions
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from fugitive emissions
Long-term and short-term strategy or plan
to manage Scope 1 emissions
Emissions reduction targets and analysis
of performance against those targets995,625
116,292
19.7
29%
5.70
100%
298,711
4%
429,557
0
256,359
10,998
Page 16-19
Page 16-17Greenhouse Gas Emissions
EM-EP-120a.1
EM-EP-120a.1
EM-EP-120a.1
EM-EP-120a.1Metric tons (t)
Metric tons (t)
Metric tons (t)
Metric tons (t)Nitrogen Oxide (NO) Emissions
Sulfur Dioxide (SO₂ ) Emissions
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) Emissions
Particulate Matter (PM10) Emissions12,955
1,015
242,410
33015,098
1,485
265,714
257Air Quality
Water Management
--
715
35
0
0
567
115
0%
0%
--EM-EP-160a.1
EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.2
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-160a.3
EM-EP-160a.3
Voluntary disclosuren/a
Barrels (bbls)
Number
Barrels (bbls)
Barrels (bbls)
Barrels (bbls)
Barrels of total ﬂuids
spilled/million barrels
produced
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
Cubic Yards (yd3 )Page 7, 13-15
134.9
31
0
0
28.5
39
0%
0%
10Biodiversity Impacts
Total recordable incident rate (TRIR)
Fatality Rate 
Near miss frequency rate (NMFR)
Average hours of health, safety, and emergency response training
for full-time ﬁeld and contract employees
Average hours of health, safety, and emergency response
training short-service employees
Discussion of management systems used to integrate a culture of
safety throughout the exploration and production life cycle0.60
0
0.65*
18
37
Page 19-20EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.2Number of work-related
injuries and illnesses
per 200,000 workhours
Rate
Rate
Hours (h)
Hours (h)
n/a0.54
0
0.88
7
27
Page 7, 26-27Workforce Health & Safety
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves in countries
that have the 20 lowest rankings in Transparency International’s
Corruption Perception Index
Description of the management system for prevention of 
corruption and bribery throughout the value chain0% EM-EP-510a.1
EM-EP-510a.2Percentage (%)
n/a0%Business Ethics & TransparencyEstimated carbon dioxide emissions
embedded in proved hydrocarbon reserves
Invested amount vs. revenue generated 
by renewable energy sales
Discussion of how price and demand for hydrocarbons and/or
climate regulation inﬂuence the capital expenditure strategy
for exploration, acquisition, and development of assets 61,238,606
$273,750
10-K / 10-Q Risks and MD&A section
Refer to Code of Business Conduct and EthicsEM-EP-420a.2
EM-EP-420a.3
EM-EP-420a.4Metric tons (t) CO₂-e
Reporting Currency
n/a53,966,975
$303,600Reserves Valuation & Capital Expenditures
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable
reserves in or near areas of conﬂict
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable
reserves in or near indigenous land
Discussion of engagement processes and due diligence
practices with respect to human rights, indigenous rights,
and operation in areas of conﬂict0%
0%
--0%
0%
Page 29EM-EP-210a.1
EM-EP-210a.2
EM-EP-210a.3Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
n/aSecurity, Human Rights, & Rights of Indigenous Peoples
Discussion of process to manage risks and opportunities
associated with community rights and interests
Number and duration of non-technical delaysPage 23
0Page 29
0EM-EP-210b.1
EM-EP-210b.2n/a
Number, DaysCommunity Relations
Discussion of corporate positions related to government regulations 
and/or policy proposals that address environmental 
and social factors aﬀecting the industryManagement of the Legal & Regulatory EnvironmentWorkforce*
Oil production, total gross
Natural Gas production, total gross
Synthetic oil production
Synthetic gas production
Number of oﬀshore sites
Number of terrestrial sites EM-EP-000.A
EM-EP-000.A
EM-EP-000.A
EM-EP-000.A
EM-EP-000.B
EM-EP-000.C105
246
0
0
0
094
265
0
0
0
0Mbbl/day
MMscf/day
Mbbl/day
MMscf/day
Number
NumberProcess Safety Event (PSE) rates for 
Loss of Primary Containment (LOPC) of greater consequence (Tier 1)
Description of management systems used to identify 
and mitigate catastrophic and tail-end risksEM-EP-540a.1
EM-EP-540a.20.34
Page 7, 36--
--Rate
n/aCritical Incident Risk Management
Activity Metrics*Revised from prior disclosure of 0.90.Foreword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure Frameworks
SASB DISCLOSURES          TCFD DISCLOSURESCALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 43
Total Permanent, Full-Time Employees
Women, as a % of Workforce
Minorities, as a % of Workforce
Percent of Workforce represented by Union
*2019 workforce statistics reﬂect Callon’s post-merger full-time, permanent workforce as of January 10, 2020.337
20%
35%
0%Voluntary Disclosure
Voluntary Disclosure
Voluntary Disclosure
Voluntary DisclosureNumber
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)303
18%
36%
0%
10-K / 10-Q Risks section EM-EP-530a.1 n/a5,010
34%
4,183
36%
1,484
3,024
8,691
1,484
15,854
0%
91%
9%
0
100%
>90%
Page 11-12EM-EP-140a.1
EM-EP-140a.1
EM-EP-140a.1
EM-EP-140a.1
Voluntary disclosure
Voluntary disclosure
Voluntary disclosure
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.3
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-140a.4Thousand Cubic 
Meters (m3 )
Percentage (%)
Thousand Cubic 
Meters (m3 )
Percentage (%)
Thousand Cubic 
Meters (m3 )
Thousand Cubic
Meters (m3 )
Thousand Cubic
Meters (m3 )
Thousand Cubic
Meters (m3 )
Thousand Cubic
Meters (m3 )
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
Metric tons (t)
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
n/aTotal fresh water withdrawn
Percentage of total fresh water withdrawn in regions with
High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress
Total fresh water consumed
Percentage of fresh water consumed in regions with
High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress
Total volume of Recycled Produced Water consumed
Total volume of Non Fresh Water consumed
Total volume of water consumed
Total volume of Recycled Produced Water
Volume of produced water and ﬂowback generated
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback discharged
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback injected
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback recycled
Hydrocarbon content in discharged water
Percentage of hydraulically fractured wells for which there
is public disclosure of all fracturing ﬂuid chemicals used
Percentage of produced water on pipe
Discussion of policies and practices related to ground and
surface water quality management
Discussion of environmental management
policies and practices for active sites
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon
spills to the environment
Number of hydrocarbon spills to the environment
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills in the Arctic
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills
impacting shorelines with ESI rankings 8-10
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon recovered from the environment
Total Fluids Spill Rate
Percentage of proved reserves in or near sites with protected
conservation status or endangered species habitat
Percentage of probable reserves in or near sites with protected
conservation status or endangered species habitat
Volume of hazardous waste generated and disposed3,230
35%
2,014
46%
773
1,272
4,059
953
15,313
0%
94%
6%
0
100%
>90%
Page 20-21DEFINITION UNIT OF MEASURE SASB METRIC 2019 2020
1,450,165
118,929
27.3
28%
7.64
100%
544,678
7%
523,029
0
372,216
10,242
Page 8-10
--EM-EP-110a.1
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-110a.1
EM-EP-110a.1
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-110a.1
EM-EP-110a.2
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-110a.2
EM-EP-110a.2
EM-EP-110a.2
EM-EP-110a.2
EM-EP-110a.3
EM-EP-110a.3Metric tons CO₂-e(t)
Metric tons CO₂-e(t)
Metric tons CO₂-e(t)/
production (MBOE)
Percentage (%)
Metric tons CO₂-e(t)/
production (MBOE)
Percentage (%)
Metric tons CO₂-e
Percentage (%)
Metric tons CO₂-e
Metric tons CO₂-e
Metric tons CO₂-e
Metric tons CO₂-e
n/a
n/a Gross Scope 1 GHG Emissions
Gross Scope 2 GHG Emissions
Gross Scope 1 GHG Intensity Rate
Gross Scope 1 Methane Emissions
as a percentage of GHG Emissions
Gross Scope 1 Methane Intensity
Percentage of Scope 1 GHG Emissions covered
under emissions-limiting regulations
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from ﬂared hydrocarbons
Flare Percent, as a percent of gas produced
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from other combustion
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from process emissions
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from other vented emissions
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from fugitive emissions
Long-term and short-term strategy or plan
to manage Scope 1 emissions
Emissions reduction targets and analysis
of performance against those targets995,625
116,292
19.7
29%
5.70
100%
298,711
4%
429,557
0
256,359
10,998
Page 16-19
Page 16-17Greenhouse Gas Emissions
EM-EP-120a.1
EM-EP-120a.1
EM-EP-120a.1
EM-EP-120a.1Metric tons (t)
Metric tons (t)
Metric tons (t)
Metric tons (t)Nitrogen Oxide (NO) Emissions
Sulfur Dioxide (SO₂ ) Emissions
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) Emissions
Particulate Matter (PM10) Emissions12,955
1,015
242,410
33015,098
1,485
265,714
257Air Quality
Water Management
--
715
35
0
0
567
115
0%
0%
--EM-EP-160a.1
EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.2
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-160a.3
EM-EP-160a.3
Voluntary disclosuren/a
Barrels (bbls)
Number
Barrels (bbls)
Barrels (bbls)
Barrels (bbls)
Barrels of total ﬂuids
spilled/million barrels
produced
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
Cubic Yards (yd3 )Page 7, 13-15
134.9
31
0
0
28.5
39
0%
0%
10Biodiversity Impacts
Total recordable incident rate (TRIR)
Fatality Rate 
Near miss frequency rate (NMFR)
Average hours of health, safety, and emergency response training
for full-time ﬁeld and contract employees
Average hours of health, safety, and emergency response
training short-service employees
Discussion of management systems used to integrate a culture of
safety throughout the exploration and production life cycle0.60
0
0.65*
18
37
Page 19-20EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.2Number of work-related
injuries and illnesses
per 200,000 workhours
Rate
Rate
Hours (h)
Hours (h)
n/a0.54
0
0.88
7
27
Page 7, 26-27Workforce Health & Safety
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves in countries
that have the 20 lowest rankings in Transparency International’s
Corruption Perception Index
Description of the management system for prevention of 
corruption and bribery throughout the value chain0% EM-EP-510a.1
EM-EP-510a.2Percentage (%)
n/a0%Business Ethics & TransparencyEstimated carbon dioxide emissions
embedded in proved hydrocarbon reserves
Invested amount vs. revenue generated 
by renewable energy sales
Discussion of how price and demand for hydrocarbons and/or
climate regulation inﬂuence the capital expenditure strategy
for exploration, acquisition, and development of assets 61,238,606
$273,750
10-K / 10-Q Risks and MD&A section
Refer to Code of Business Conduct and EthicsEM-EP-420a.2
EM-EP-420a.3
EM-EP-420a.4Metric tons (t) CO₂-e
Reporting Currency
n/a53,966,975
$303,600Reserves Valuation & Capital Expenditures
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable
reserves in or near areas of conﬂict
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable
reserves in or near indigenous land
Discussion of engagement processes and due diligence
practices with respect to human rights, indigenous rights,
and operation in areas of conﬂict0%
0%
--0%
0%
Page 29EM-EP-210a.1
EM-EP-210a.2
EM-EP-210a.3Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
n/aSecurity, Human Rights, & Rights of Indigenous Peoples
Discussion of process to manage risks and opportunities
associated with community rights and interests
Number and duration of non-technical delaysPage 23
0Page 29
0EM-EP-210b.1
EM-EP-210b.2n/a
Number, DaysCommunity Relations
Discussion of corporate positions related to government regulations 
and/or policy proposals that address environmental 
and social factors aﬀecting the industryManagement of the Legal & Regulatory EnvironmentWorkforce*
Oil production, total gross
Natural Gas production, total gross
Synthetic oil production
Synthetic gas production
Number of oﬀshore sites
Number of terrestrial sites EM-EP-000.A
EM-EP-000.A
EM-EP-000.A
EM-EP-000.A
EM-EP-000.B
EM-EP-000.C105
246
0
0
0
094
265
0
0
0
0Mbbl/day
MMscf/day
Mbbl/day
MMscf/day
Number
NumberProcess Safety Event (PSE) rates for 
Loss of Primary Containment (LOPC) of greater consequence (Tier 1)
Description of management systems used to identify 
and mitigate catastrophic and tail-end risksEM-EP-540a.1
EM-EP-540a.20.34
Page 7, 36--
--Rate
n/aCritical Incident Risk Management
Activity Metrics*Revised from prior disclosure of 0.90.Total Permanent, Full-Time Employees
Women, as a % of Workforce
Minorities, as a % of Workforce
Percent of Workforce represented by Union
*2019 workforce statistics reﬂect Callon’s post-merger full-time, permanent workforce as of January 10, 2020.337
20%
35%
0%Voluntary Disclosure
Voluntary Disclosure
Voluntary Disclosure
Voluntary DisclosureNumber
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)303
18%
36%
0%
10-K / 10-Q Risks section EM-EP-530a.1 n/a5,010
34%
4,183
36%
1,484
3,024
8,691
1,484
15,854
0%
91%
9%
0
100%
>90%
Page 11-12EM-EP-140a.1
EM-EP-140a.1
EM-EP-140a.1
EM-EP-140a.1
Voluntary disclosure
Voluntary disclosure
Voluntary disclosure
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.3
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-140a.4Thousand Cubic 
Meters (m3 )
Percentage (%)
Thousand Cubic 
Meters (m3 )
Percentage (%)
Thousand Cubic 
Meters (m3 )
Thousand Cubic
Meters (m3 )
Thousand Cubic
Meters (m3 )
Thousand Cubic
Meters (m3 )
Thousand Cubic
Meters (m3 )
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
Metric tons (t)
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
n/aTotal fresh water withdrawn
Percentage of total fresh water withdrawn in regions with
High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress
Total fresh water consumed
Percentage of fresh water consumed in regions with
High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress
Total volume of Recycled Produced Water consumed
Total volume of Non Fresh Water consumed
Total volume of water consumed
Total volume of Recycled Produced Water
Volume of produced water and ﬂowback generated
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback discharged
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback injected
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback recycled
Hydrocarbon content in discharged water
Percentage of hydraulically fractured wells for which there
is public disclosure of all fracturing ﬂuid chemicals used
Percentage of produced water on pipe
Discussion of policies and practices related to ground and
surface water quality management
Discussion of environmental management
policies and practices for active sites
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon
spills to the environment
Number of hydrocarbon spills to the environment
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills in the Arctic
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills
impacting shorelines with ESI rankings 8-10
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon recovered from the environment
Total Fluids Spill Rate
Percentage of proved reserves in or near sites with protected
conservation status or endangered species habitat
Percentage of probable reserves in or near sites with protected
conservation status or endangered species habitat
Volume of hazardous waste generated and disposed3,230
35%
2,014
46%
773
1,272
4,059
953
15,313
0%
94%
6%
0
100%
>90%
Page 20-21DEFINITION UNIT OF MEASURE SASB METRIC 2019 2020
1,450,165
118,929
27.3
28%
7.64
100%
544,678
7%
523,029
0
372,216
10,242
Page 8-10
--EM-EP-110a.1
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-110a.1
EM-EP-110a.1
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-110a.1
EM-EP-110a.2
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-110a.2
EM-EP-110a.2
EM-EP-110a.2
EM-EP-110a.2
EM-EP-110a.3
EM-EP-110a.3Metric tons CO₂-e(t)
Metric tons CO₂-e(t)
Metric tons CO₂-e(t)/
production (MBOE)
Percentage (%)
Metric tons CO₂-e(t)/
production (MBOE)
Percentage (%)
Metric tons CO₂-e
Percentage (%)
Metric tons CO₂-e
Metric tons CO₂-e
Metric tons CO₂-e
Metric tons CO₂-e
n/a
n/a Gross Scope 1 GHG Emissions
Gross Scope 2 GHG Emissions
Gross Scope 1 GHG Intensity Rate
Gross Scope 1 Methane Emissions
as a percentage of GHG Emissions
Gross Scope 1 Methane Intensity
Percentage of Scope 1 GHG Emissions covered
under emissions-limiting regulations
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from ﬂared hydrocarbons
Flare Percent, as a percent of gas produced
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from other combustion
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from process emissions
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from other vented emissions
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from fugitive emissions
Long-term and short-term strategy or plan
to manage Scope 1 emissions
Emissions reduction targets and analysis
of performance against those targets995,625
116,292
19.7
29%
5.70
100%
298,711
4%
429,557
0
256,359
10,998
Page 16-19
Page 16-17Greenhouse Gas Emissions
EM-EP-120a.1
EM-EP-120a.1
EM-EP-120a.1
EM-EP-120a.1Metric tons (t)
Metric tons (t)
Metric tons (t)
Metric tons (t)Nitrogen Oxide (NO) Emissions
Sulfur Dioxide (SO₂ ) Emissions
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) Emissions
Particulate Matter (PM10) Emissions12,955
1,015
242,410
33015,098
1,485
265,714
257Air Quality
Water Management
--
715
35
0
0
567
115
0%
0%
--EM-EP-160a.1
EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.2
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-160a.3
EM-EP-160a.3
Voluntary disclosuren/a
Barrels (bbls)
Number
Barrels (bbls)
Barrels (bbls)
Barrels (bbls)
Barrels of total ﬂuids
spilled/million barrels
produced
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
Cubic Yards (yd3 )Page 7, 13-15
134.9
31
0
0
28.5
39
0%
0%
10Biodiversity Impacts
Total recordable incident rate (TRIR)
Fatality Rate 
Near miss frequency rate (NMFR)
Average hours of health, safety, and emergency response training
for full-time ﬁeld and contract employees
Average hours of health, safety, and emergency response
training short-service employees
Discussion of management systems used to integrate a culture of
safety throughout the exploration and production life cycle0.60
0
0.65*
18
37
Page 19-20EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.2Number of work-related
injuries and illnesses
per 200,000 workhours
Rate
Rate
Hours (h)
Hours (h)
n/a0.54
0
0.88
7
27
Page 7, 26-27Workforce Health & Safety
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves in countries
that have the 20 lowest rankings in Transparency International’s
Corruption Perception Index
Description of the management system for prevention of 
corruption and bribery throughout the value chain0% EM-EP-510a.1
EM-EP-510a.2Percentage (%)
n/a0%Business Ethics & TransparencyEstimated carbon dioxide emissions
embedded in proved hydrocarbon reserves
Invested amount vs. revenue generated 
by renewable energy sales
Discussion of how price and demand for hydrocarbons and/or
climate regulation inﬂuence the capital expenditure strategy
for exploration, acquisition, and development of assets 61,238,606
$273,750
10-K / 10-Q Risks and MD&A section
Refer to Code of Business Conduct and EthicsEM-EP-420a.2
EM-EP-420a.3
EM-EP-420a.4Metric tons (t) CO₂-e
Reporting Currency
n/a53,966,975
$303,600Reserves Valuation & Capital Expenditures
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable
reserves in or near areas of conﬂict
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable
reserves in or near indigenous land
Discussion of engagement processes and due diligence
practices with respect to human rights, indigenous rights,
and operation in areas of conﬂict0%
0%
--0%
0%
Page 29EM-EP-210a.1
EM-EP-210a.2
EM-EP-210a.3Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
n/aSecurity, Human Rights, & Rights of Indigenous Peoples
Discussion of process to manage risks and opportunities
associated with community rights and interests
Number and duration of non-technical delaysPage 23
0Page 29
0EM-EP-210b.1
EM-EP-210b.2n/a
Number, DaysCommunity Relations
Discussion of corporate positions related to government regulations 
and/or policy proposals that address environmental 
and social factors aﬀecting the industryManagement of the Legal & Regulatory EnvironmentWorkforce*
Oil production, total gross
Natural Gas production, total gross
Synthetic oil production
Synthetic gas production
Number of oﬀshore sites
Number of terrestrial sites EM-EP-000.A
EM-EP-000.A
EM-EP-000.A
EM-EP-000.A
EM-EP-000.B
EM-EP-000.C105
246
0
0
0
094
265
0
0
0
0Mbbl/day
MMscf/day
Mbbl/day
MMscf/day
Number
NumberProcess Safety Event (PSE) rates for 
Loss of Primary Containment (LOPC) of greater consequence (Tier 1)
Description of management systems used to identify 
and mitigate catastrophic and tail-end risksEM-EP-540a.1
EM-EP-540a.20.34
Page 7, 36--
--Rate
n/aCritical Incident Risk Management
Activity Metrics*Revised from prior disclosure of 0.90.Foreword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure Frameworks
SASB DISCLOSURES          TCFD DISCLOSURESCALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 44
Total Permanent, Full-Time Employees
Women, as a % of Workforce
Minorities, as a % of Workforce
Percent of Workforce represented by Union
*2019 workforce statistics reﬂect Callon’s post-merger full-time, permanent workforce as of January 10, 2020.337
20%
35%
0%Voluntary Disclosure
Voluntary Disclosure
Voluntary Disclosure
Voluntary DisclosureNumber
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)303
18%
36%
0%
10-K / 10-Q Risks section EM-EP-530a.1 n/a5,010
34%
4,183
36%
1,484
3,024
8,691
1,484
15,854
0%
91%
9%
0
100%
>90%
Page 11-12EM-EP-140a.1
EM-EP-140a.1
EM-EP-140a.1
EM-EP-140a.1
Voluntary disclosure
Voluntary disclosure
Voluntary disclosure
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.3
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-140a.4Thousand Cubic 
Meters (m3 )
Percentage (%)
Thousand Cubic 
Meters (m3 )
Percentage (%)
Thousand Cubic 
Meters (m3 )
Thousand Cubic
Meters (m3 )
Thousand Cubic
Meters (m3 )
Thousand Cubic
Meters (m3 )
Thousand Cubic
Meters (m3 )
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
Metric tons (t)
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
n/aTotal fresh water withdrawn
Percentage of total fresh water withdrawn in regions with
High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress
Total fresh water consumed
Percentage of fresh water consumed in regions with
High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress
Total volume of Recycled Produced Water consumed
Total volume of Non Fresh Water consumed
Total volume of water consumed
Total volume of Recycled Produced Water
Volume of produced water and ﬂowback generated
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback discharged
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback injected
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback recycled
Hydrocarbon content in discharged water
Percentage of hydraulically fractured wells for which there
is public disclosure of all fracturing ﬂuid chemicals used
Percentage of produced water on pipe
Discussion of policies and practices related to ground and
surface water quality management
Discussion of environmental management
policies and practices for active sites
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon
spills to the environment
Number of hydrocarbon spills to the environment
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills in the Arctic
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills
impacting shorelines with ESI rankings 8-10
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon recovered from the environment
Total Fluids Spill Rate
Percentage of proved reserves in or near sites with protected
conservation status or endangered species habitat
Percentage of probable reserves in or near sites with protected
conservation status or endangered species habitat
Volume of hazardous waste generated and disposed3,230
35%
2,014
46%
773
1,272
4,059
953
15,313
0%
94%
6%
0
100%
>90%
Page 20-21DEFINITION UNIT OF MEASURE SASB METRIC 2019 2020
1,450,165
118,929
27.3
28%
7.64
100%
544,678
7%
523,029
0
372,216
10,242
Page 8-10
--EM-EP-110a.1
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-110a.1
EM-EP-110a.1
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-110a.1
EM-EP-110a.2
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-110a.2
EM-EP-110a.2
EM-EP-110a.2
EM-EP-110a.2
EM-EP-110a.3
EM-EP-110a.3Metric tons CO₂-e(t)
Metric tons CO₂-e(t)
Metric tons CO₂-e(t)/
production (MBOE)
Percentage (%)
Metric tons CO₂-e(t)/
production (MBOE)
Percentage (%)
Metric tons CO₂-e
Percentage (%)
Metric tons CO₂-e
Metric tons CO₂-e
Metric tons CO₂-e
Metric tons CO₂-e
n/a
n/a Gross Scope 1 GHG Emissions
Gross Scope 2 GHG Emissions
Gross Scope 1 GHG Intensity Rate
Gross Scope 1 Methane Emissions
as a percentage of GHG Emissions
Gross Scope 1 Methane Intensity
Percentage of Scope 1 GHG Emissions covered
under emissions-limiting regulations
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from ﬂared hydrocarbons
Flare Percent, as a percent of gas produced
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from other combustion
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from process emissions
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from other vented emissions
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from fugitive emissions
Long-term and short-term strategy or plan
to manage Scope 1 emissions
Emissions reduction targets and analysis
of performance against those targets995,625
116,292
19.7
29%
5.70
100%
298,711
4%
429,557
0
256,359
10,998
Page 16-19
Page 16-17Greenhouse Gas Emissions
EM-EP-120a.1
EM-EP-120a.1
EM-EP-120a.1
EM-EP-120a.1Metric tons (t)
Metric tons (t)
Metric tons (t)
Metric tons (t)Nitrogen Oxide (NO) Emissions
Sulfur Dioxide (SO₂ ) Emissions
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) Emissions
Particulate Matter (PM10) Emissions12,955
1,015
242,410
33015,098
1,485
265,714
257Air Quality
Water Management
--
715
35
0
0
567
115
0%
0%
--EM-EP-160a.1
EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.2
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-160a.3
EM-EP-160a.3
Voluntary disclosuren/a
Barrels (bbls)
Number
Barrels (bbls)
Barrels (bbls)
Barrels (bbls)
Barrels of total ﬂuids
spilled/million barrels
produced
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
Cubic Yards (yd3 )Page 7, 13-15
134.9
31
0
0
28.5
39
0%
0%
10Biodiversity Impacts
Total recordable incident rate (TRIR)
Fatality Rate 
Near miss frequency rate (NMFR)
Average hours of health, safety, and emergency response training
for full-time ﬁeld and contract employees
Average hours of health, safety, and emergency response
training short-service employees
Discussion of management systems used to integrate a culture of
safety throughout the exploration and production life cycle0.60
0
0.65*
18
37
Page 19-20EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.2Number of work-related
injuries and illnesses
per 200,000 workhours
Rate
Rate
Hours (h)
Hours (h)
n/a0.54
0
0.88
7
27
Page 7, 26-27Workforce Health & Safety
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves in countries
that have the 20 lowest rankings in Transparency International’s
Corruption Perception Index
Description of the management system for prevention of 
corruption and bribery throughout the value chain0% EM-EP-510a.1
EM-EP-510a.2Percentage (%)
n/a0%Business Ethics & TransparencyEstimated carbon dioxide emissions
embedded in proved hydrocarbon reserves
Invested amount vs. revenue generated 
by renewable energy sales
Discussion of how price and demand for hydrocarbons and/or
climate regulation inﬂuence the capital expenditure strategy
for exploration, acquisition, and development of assets 61,238,606
$273,750
10-K / 10-Q Risks and MD&A section
Refer to Code of Business Conduct and EthicsEM-EP-420a.2
EM-EP-420a.3
EM-EP-420a.4Metric tons (t) CO₂-e
Reporting Currency
n/a53,966,975
$303,600Reserves Valuation & Capital Expenditures
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable
reserves in or near areas of conﬂict
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable
reserves in or near indigenous land
Discussion of engagement processes and due diligence
practices with respect to human rights, indigenous rights,
and operation in areas of conﬂict0%
0%
--0%
0%
Page 29EM-EP-210a.1
EM-EP-210a.2
EM-EP-210a.3Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
n/aSecurity, Human Rights, & Rights of Indigenous Peoples
Discussion of process to manage risks and opportunities
associated with community rights and interests
Number and duration of non-technical delaysPage 23
0Page 29
0EM-EP-210b.1
EM-EP-210b.2n/a
Number, DaysCommunity Relations
Discussion of corporate positions related to government regulations 
and/or policy proposals that address environmental 
and social factors aﬀecting the industryManagement of the Legal & Regulatory EnvironmentWorkforce*
Oil production, total gross
Natural Gas production, total gross
Synthetic oil production
Synthetic gas production
Number of oﬀshore sites
Number of terrestrial sites EM-EP-000.A
EM-EP-000.A
EM-EP-000.A
EM-EP-000.A
EM-EP-000.B
EM-EP-000.C105
246
0
0
0
094
265
0
0
0
0Mbbl/day
MMscf/day
Mbbl/day
MMscf/day
Number
NumberProcess Safety Event (PSE) rates for 
Loss of Primary Containment (LOPC) of greater consequence (Tier 1)
Description of management systems used to identify 
and mitigate catastrophic and tail-end risksEM-EP-540a.1
EM-EP-540a.20.34
Page 7, 36--
--Rate
n/aCritical Incident Risk Management
Activity Metrics*Revised from prior disclosure of 0.90.Total Permanent, Full-Time Employees
Women, as a % of Workforce
Minorities, as a % of Workforce
Percent of Workforce represented by Union
*2019 workforce statistics reﬂect Callon’s post-merger full-time, permanent workforce as of January 10, 2020.337
20%
35%
0%Voluntary Disclosure
Voluntary Disclosure
Voluntary Disclosure
Voluntary DisclosureNumber
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)303
18%
36%
0%
10-K / 10-Q Risks section EM-EP-530a.1 n/a5,010
34%
4,183
36%
1,484
3,024
8,691
1,484
15,854
0%
91%
9%
0
100%
>90%
Page 11-12EM-EP-140a.1
EM-EP-140a.1
EM-EP-140a.1
EM-EP-140a.1
Voluntary disclosure
Voluntary disclosure
Voluntary disclosure
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.3
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-140a.4Thousand Cubic 
Meters (m3 )
Percentage (%)
Thousand Cubic 
Meters (m3 )
Percentage (%)
Thousand Cubic 
Meters (m3 )
Thousand Cubic
Meters (m3 )
Thousand Cubic
Meters (m3 )
Thousand Cubic
Meters (m3 )
Thousand Cubic
Meters (m3 )
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
Metric tons (t)
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
n/aTotal fresh water withdrawn
Percentage of total fresh water withdrawn in regions with
High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress
Total fresh water consumed
Percentage of fresh water consumed in regions with
High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress
Total volume of Recycled Produced Water consumed
Total volume of Non Fresh Water consumed
Total volume of water consumed
Total volume of Recycled Produced Water
Volume of produced water and ﬂowback generated
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback discharged
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback injected
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback recycled
Hydrocarbon content in discharged water
Percentage of hydraulically fractured wells for which there
is public disclosure of all fracturing ﬂuid chemicals used
Percentage of produced water on pipe
Discussion of policies and practices related to ground and
surface water quality management
Discussion of environmental management
policies and practices for active sites
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon
spills to the environment
Number of hydrocarbon spills to the environment
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills in the Arctic
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills
impacting shorelines with ESI rankings 8-10
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon recovered from the environment
Total Fluids Spill Rate
Percentage of proved reserves in or near sites with protected
conservation status or endangered species habitat
Percentage of probable reserves in or near sites with protected
conservation status or endangered species habitat
Volume of hazardous waste generated and disposed3,230
35%
2,014
46%
773
1,272
4,059
953
15,313
0%
94%
6%
0
100%
>90%
Page 20-21DEFINITION UNIT OF MEASURE SASB METRIC 2019 2020
1,450,165
118,929
27.3
28%
7.64
100%
544,678
7%
523,029
0
372,216
10,242
Page 8-10
--EM-EP-110a.1
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-110a.1
EM-EP-110a.1
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-110a.1
EM-EP-110a.2
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-110a.2
EM-EP-110a.2
EM-EP-110a.2
EM-EP-110a.2
EM-EP-110a.3
EM-EP-110a.3Metric tons CO₂-e(t)
Metric tons CO₂-e(t)
Metric tons CO₂-e(t)/
production (MBOE)
Percentage (%)
Metric tons CO₂-e(t)/
production (MBOE)
Percentage (%)
Metric tons CO₂-e
Percentage (%)
Metric tons CO₂-e
Metric tons CO₂-e
Metric tons CO₂-e
Metric tons CO₂-e
n/a
n/a Gross Scope 1 GHG Emissions
Gross Scope 2 GHG Emissions
Gross Scope 1 GHG Intensity Rate
Gross Scope 1 Methane Emissions
as a percentage of GHG Emissions
Gross Scope 1 Methane Intensity
Percentage of Scope 1 GHG Emissions covered
under emissions-limiting regulations
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from ﬂared hydrocarbons
Flare Percent, as a percent of gas produced
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from other combustion
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from process emissions
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from other vented emissions
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from fugitive emissions
Long-term and short-term strategy or plan
to manage Scope 1 emissions
Emissions reduction targets and analysis
of performance against those targets995,625
116,292
19.7
29%
5.70
100%
298,711
4%
429,557
0
256,359
10,998
Page 16-19
Page 16-17Greenhouse Gas Emissions
EM-EP-120a.1
EM-EP-120a.1
EM-EP-120a.1
EM-EP-120a.1Metric tons (t)
Metric tons (t)
Metric tons (t)
Metric tons (t)Nitrogen Oxide (NO) Emissions
Sulfur Dioxide (SO₂ ) Emissions
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) Emissions
Particulate Matter (PM10) Emissions12,955
1,015
242,410
33015,098
1,485
265,714
257Air Quality
Water Management
--
715
35
0
0
567
115
0%
0%
--EM-EP-160a.1
EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.2
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-160a.3
EM-EP-160a.3
Voluntary disclosuren/a
Barrels (bbls)
Number
Barrels (bbls)
Barrels (bbls)
Barrels (bbls)
Barrels of total ﬂuids
spilled/million barrels
produced
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
Cubic Yards (yd3 )Page 7, 13-15
134.9
31
0
0
28.5
39
0%
0%
10Biodiversity Impacts
Total recordable incident rate (TRIR)
Fatality Rate 
Near miss frequency rate (NMFR)
Average hours of health, safety, and emergency response training
for full-time ﬁeld and contract employees
Average hours of health, safety, and emergency response
training short-service employees
Discussion of management systems used to integrate a culture of
safety throughout the exploration and production life cycle0.60
0
0.65*
18
37
Page 19-20EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.2Number of work-related
injuries and illnesses
per 200,000 workhours
Rate
Rate
Hours (h)
Hours (h)
n/a0.54
0
0.88
7
27
Page 7, 26-27Workforce Health & Safety
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves in countries
that have the 20 lowest rankings in Transparency International’s
Corruption Perception Index
Description of the management system for prevention of 
corruption and bribery throughout the value chain0% EM-EP-510a.1
EM-EP-510a.2Percentage (%)
n/a0%Business Ethics & TransparencyEstimated carbon dioxide emissions
embedded in proved hydrocarbon reserves
Invested amount vs. revenue generated 
by renewable energy sales
Discussion of how price and demand for hydrocarbons and/or
climate regulation inﬂuence the capital expenditure strategy
for exploration, acquisition, and development of assets 61,238,606
$273,750
10-K / 10-Q Risks and MD&A section
Refer to Code of Business Conduct and EthicsEM-EP-420a.2
EM-EP-420a.3
EM-EP-420a.4Metric tons (t) CO₂-e
Reporting Currency
n/a53,966,975
$303,600Reserves Valuation & Capital Expenditures
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable
reserves in or near areas of conﬂict
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable
reserves in or near indigenous land
Discussion of engagement processes and due diligence
practices with respect to human rights, indigenous rights,
and operation in areas of conﬂict0%
0%
--0%
0%
Page 29EM-EP-210a.1
EM-EP-210a.2
EM-EP-210a.3Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
n/aSecurity, Human Rights, & Rights of Indigenous Peoples
Discussion of process to manage risks and opportunities
associated with community rights and interests
Number and duration of non-technical delaysPage 23
0Page 29
0EM-EP-210b.1
EM-EP-210b.2n/a
Number, DaysCommunity Relations
Discussion of corporate positions related to government regulations 
and/or policy proposals that address environmental 
and social factors aﬀecting the industryManagement of the Legal & Regulatory EnvironmentWorkforce*
Oil production, total gross
Natural Gas production, total gross
Synthetic oil production
Synthetic gas production
Number of oﬀshore sites
Number of terrestrial sites EM-EP-000.A
EM-EP-000.A
EM-EP-000.A
EM-EP-000.A
EM-EP-000.B
EM-EP-000.C105
246
0
0
0
094
265
0
0
0
0Mbbl/day
MMscf/day
Mbbl/day
MMscf/day
Number
NumberProcess Safety Event (PSE) rates for 
Loss of Primary Containment (LOPC) of greater consequence (Tier 1)
Description of management systems used to identify 
and mitigate catastrophic and tail-end risksEM-EP-540a.1
EM-EP-540a.20.34
Page 7, 36--
--Rate
n/aCritical Incident Risk Management
Activity Metrics*Revised from prior disclosure of 0.90.
Foreword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure Frameworks
SASB DISCLOSURES          TCFD DISCLOSURESCALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 45
Total Permanent, Full-Time Employees
Women, as a % of Workforce
Minorities, as a % of Workforce
Percent of Workforce represented by Union
*2019 workforce statistics reﬂect Callon’s post-merger full-time, permanent workforce as of January 10, 2020.337
20%
35%
0%Voluntary Disclosure
Voluntary Disclosure
Voluntary Disclosure
Voluntary DisclosureNumber
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)303
18%
36%
0%
10-K / 10-Q Risks section EM-EP-530a.1 n/a5,010
34%
4,183
36%
1,484
3,024
8,691
1,484
15,854
0%
91%
9%
0
100%
>90%
Page 11-12EM-EP-140a.1
EM-EP-140a.1
EM-EP-140a.1
EM-EP-140a.1
Voluntary disclosure
Voluntary disclosure
Voluntary disclosure
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.3
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-140a.4Thousand Cubic 
Meters (m3 )
Percentage (%)
Thousand Cubic 
Meters (m3 )
Percentage (%)
Thousand Cubic 
Meters (m3 )
Thousand Cubic
Meters (m3 )
Thousand Cubic
Meters (m3 )
Thousand Cubic
Meters (m3 )
Thousand Cubic
Meters (m3 )
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
Metric tons (t)
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
n/aTotal fresh water withdrawn
Percentage of total fresh water withdrawn in regions with
High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress
Total fresh water consumed
Percentage of fresh water consumed in regions with
High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress
Total volume of Recycled Produced Water consumed
Total volume of Non Fresh Water consumed
Total volume of water consumed
Total volume of Recycled Produced Water
Volume of produced water and ﬂowback generated
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback discharged
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback injected
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback recycled
Hydrocarbon content in discharged water
Percentage of hydraulically fractured wells for which there
is public disclosure of all fracturing ﬂuid chemicals used
Percentage of produced water on pipe
Discussion of policies and practices related to ground and
surface water quality management
Discussion of environmental management
policies and practices for active sites
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon
spills to the environment
Number of hydrocarbon spills to the environment
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills in the Arctic
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills
impacting shorelines with ESI rankings 8-10
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon recovered from the environment
Total Fluids Spill Rate
Percentage of proved reserves in or near sites with protected
conservation status or endangered species habitat
Percentage of probable reserves in or near sites with protected
conservation status or endangered species habitat
Volume of hazardous waste generated and disposed3,230
35%
2,014
46%
773
1,272
4,059
953
15,313
0%
94%
6%
0
100%
>90%
Page 20-21DEFINITION UNIT OF MEASURE SASB METRIC 2019 2020
1,450,165
118,929
27.3
28%
7.64
100%
544,678
7%
523,029
0
372,216
10,242
Page 8-10
--EM-EP-110a.1
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-110a.1
EM-EP-110a.1
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-110a.1
EM-EP-110a.2
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-110a.2
EM-EP-110a.2
EM-EP-110a.2
EM-EP-110a.2
EM-EP-110a.3
EM-EP-110a.3Metric tons CO₂-e(t)
Metric tons CO₂-e(t)
Metric tons CO₂-e(t)/
production (MBOE)
Percentage (%)
Metric tons CO₂-e(t)/
production (MBOE)
Percentage (%)
Metric tons CO₂-e
Percentage (%)
Metric tons CO₂-e
Metric tons CO₂-e
Metric tons CO₂-e
Metric tons CO₂-e
n/a
n/a Gross Scope 1 GHG Emissions
Gross Scope 2 GHG Emissions
Gross Scope 1 GHG Intensity Rate
Gross Scope 1 Methane Emissions
as a percentage of GHG Emissions
Gross Scope 1 Methane Intensity
Percentage of Scope 1 GHG Emissions covered
under emissions-limiting regulations
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from ﬂared hydrocarbons
Flare Percent, as a percent of gas produced
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from other combustion
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from process emissions
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from other vented emissions
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from fugitive emissions
Long-term and short-term strategy or plan
to manage Scope 1 emissions
Emissions reduction targets and analysis
of performance against those targets995,625
116,292
19.7
29%
5.70
100%
298,711
4%
429,557
0
256,359
10,998
Page 16-19
Page 16-17Greenhouse Gas Emissions
EM-EP-120a.1
EM-EP-120a.1
EM-EP-120a.1
EM-EP-120a.1Metric tons (t)
Metric tons (t)
Metric tons (t)
Metric tons (t)Nitrogen Oxide (NO) Emissions
Sulfur Dioxide (SO₂ ) Emissions
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) Emissions
Particulate Matter (PM10) Emissions12,955
1,015
242,410
33015,098
1,485
265,714
257Air Quality
Water Management
--
715
35
0
0
567
115
0%
0%
--EM-EP-160a.1
EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.2
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-160a.3
EM-EP-160a.3
Voluntary disclosuren/a
Barrels (bbls)
Number
Barrels (bbls)
Barrels (bbls)
Barrels (bbls)
Barrels of total ﬂuids
spilled/million barrels
produced
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
Cubic Yards (yd3 )Page 7, 13-15
134.9
31
0
0
28.5
39
0%
0%
10Biodiversity Impacts
Total recordable incident rate (TRIR)
Fatality Rate 
Near miss frequency rate (NMFR)
Average hours of health, safety, and emergency response training
for full-time ﬁeld and contract employees
Average hours of health, safety, and emergency response
training short-service employees
Discussion of management systems used to integrate a culture of
safety throughout the exploration and production life cycle0.60
0
0.65*
18
37
Page 19-20EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.2Number of work-related
injuries and illnesses
per 200,000 workhours
Rate
Rate
Hours (h)
Hours (h)
n/a0.54
0
0.88
7
27
Page 7, 26-27Workforce Health & Safety
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves in countries
that have the 20 lowest rankings in Transparency International’s
Corruption Perception Index
Description of the management system for prevention of 
corruption and bribery throughout the value chain0% EM-EP-510a.1
EM-EP-510a.2Percentage (%)
n/a0%Business Ethics & TransparencyEstimated carbon dioxide emissions
embedded in proved hydrocarbon reserves
Invested amount vs. revenue generated 
by renewable energy sales
Discussion of how price and demand for hydrocarbons and/or
climate regulation inﬂuence the capital expenditure strategy
for exploration, acquisition, and development of assets 61,238,606
$273,750
10-K / 10-Q Risks and MD&A section
Refer to Code of Business Conduct and EthicsEM-EP-420a.2
EM-EP-420a.3
EM-EP-420a.4Metric tons (t) CO₂-e
Reporting Currency
n/a53,966,975
$303,600Reserves Valuation & Capital Expenditures
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable
reserves in or near areas of conﬂict
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable
reserves in or near indigenous land
Discussion of engagement processes and due diligence
practices with respect to human rights, indigenous rights,
and operation in areas of conﬂict0%
0%
--0%
0%
Page 29EM-EP-210a.1
EM-EP-210a.2
EM-EP-210a.3Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
n/aSecurity, Human Rights, & Rights of Indigenous Peoples
Discussion of process to manage risks and opportunities
associated with community rights and interests
Number and duration of non-technical delaysPage 23
0Page 29
0EM-EP-210b.1
EM-EP-210b.2n/a
Number, DaysCommunity Relations
Discussion of corporate positions related to government regulations 
and/or policy proposals that address environmental 
and social factors aﬀecting the industryManagement of the Legal & Regulatory EnvironmentWorkforce*
Oil production, total gross
Natural Gas production, total gross
Synthetic oil production
Synthetic gas production
Number of oﬀshore sites
Number of terrestrial sites EM-EP-000.A
EM-EP-000.A
EM-EP-000.A
EM-EP-000.A
EM-EP-000.B
EM-EP-000.C105
246
0
0
0
094
265
0
0
0
0Mbbl/day
MMscf/day
Mbbl/day
MMscf/day
Number
NumberProcess Safety Event (PSE) rates for 
Loss of Primary Containment (LOPC) of greater consequence (Tier 1)
Description of management systems used to identify 
and mitigate catastrophic and tail-end risksEM-EP-540a.1
EM-EP-540a.20.34
Page 7, 36--
--Rate
n/aCritical Incident Risk Management
Activity Metrics*Revised from prior disclosure of 0.90.Total Permanent, Full-Time Employees
Women, as a % of Workforce
Minorities, as a % of Workforce
Percent of Workforce represented by Union
*2019 workforce statistics reﬂect Callon’s post-merger full-time, permanent workforce as of January 10, 2020.337
20%
35%
0%Voluntary Disclosure
Voluntary Disclosure
Voluntary Disclosure
Voluntary DisclosureNumber
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)303
18%
36%
0%
10-K / 10-Q Risks section EM-EP-530a.1 n/a5,010
34%
4,183
36%
1,484
3,024
8,691
1,484
15,854
0%
91%
9%
0
100%
>90%
Page 11-12EM-EP-140a.1
EM-EP-140a.1
EM-EP-140a.1
EM-EP-140a.1
Voluntary disclosure
Voluntary disclosure
Voluntary disclosure
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.2
EM-EP-140a.3
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-140a.4Thousand Cubic 
Meters (m3 )
Percentage (%)
Thousand Cubic 
Meters (m3 )
Percentage (%)
Thousand Cubic 
Meters (m3 )
Thousand Cubic
Meters (m3 )
Thousand Cubic
Meters (m3 )
Thousand Cubic
Meters (m3 )
Thousand Cubic
Meters (m3 )
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
Metric tons (t)
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
n/aTotal fresh water withdrawn
Percentage of total fresh water withdrawn in regions with
High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress
Total fresh water consumed
Percentage of fresh water consumed in regions with
High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress
Total volume of Recycled Produced Water consumed
Total volume of Non Fresh Water consumed
Total volume of water consumed
Total volume of Recycled Produced Water
Volume of produced water and ﬂowback generated
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback discharged
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback injected
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback recycled
Hydrocarbon content in discharged water
Percentage of hydraulically fractured wells for which there
is public disclosure of all fracturing ﬂuid chemicals used
Percentage of produced water on pipe
Discussion of policies and practices related to ground and
surface water quality management
Discussion of environmental management
policies and practices for active sites
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon
spills to the environment
Number of hydrocarbon spills to the environment
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills in the Arctic
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills
impacting shorelines with ESI rankings 8-10
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon recovered from the environment
Total Fluids Spill Rate
Percentage of proved reserves in or near sites with protected
conservation status or endangered species habitat
Percentage of probable reserves in or near sites with protected
conservation status or endangered species habitat
Volume of hazardous waste generated and disposed3,230
35%
2,014
46%
773
1,272
4,059
953
15,313
0%
94%
6%
0
100%
>90%
Page 20-21DEFINITION UNIT OF MEASURE SASB METRIC 2019 2020
1,450,165
118,929
27.3
28%
7.64
100%
544,678
7%
523,029
0
372,216
10,242
Page 8-10
--EM-EP-110a.1
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-110a.1
EM-EP-110a.1
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-110a.1
EM-EP-110a.2
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-110a.2
EM-EP-110a.2
EM-EP-110a.2
EM-EP-110a.2
EM-EP-110a.3
EM-EP-110a.3Metric tons CO₂-e(t)
Metric tons CO₂-e(t)
Metric tons CO₂-e(t)/
production (MBOE)
Percentage (%)
Metric tons CO₂-e(t)/
production (MBOE)
Percentage (%)
Metric tons CO₂-e
Percentage (%)
Metric tons CO₂-e
Metric tons CO₂-e
Metric tons CO₂-e
Metric tons CO₂-e
n/a
n/a Gross Scope 1 GHG Emissions
Gross Scope 2 GHG Emissions
Gross Scope 1 GHG Intensity Rate
Gross Scope 1 Methane Emissions
as a percentage of GHG Emissions
Gross Scope 1 Methane Intensity
Percentage of Scope 1 GHG Emissions covered
under emissions-limiting regulations
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from ﬂared hydrocarbons
Flare Percent, as a percent of gas produced
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from other combustion
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from process emissions
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from other vented emissions
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from fugitive emissions
Long-term and short-term strategy or plan
to manage Scope 1 emissions
Emissions reduction targets and analysis
of performance against those targets995,625
116,292
19.7
29%
5.70
100%
298,711
4%
429,557
0
256,359
10,998
Page 16-19
Page 16-17Greenhouse Gas Emissions
EM-EP-120a.1
EM-EP-120a.1
EM-EP-120a.1
EM-EP-120a.1Metric tons (t)
Metric tons (t)
Metric tons (t)
Metric tons (t)Nitrogen Oxide (NO) Emissions
Sulfur Dioxide (SO₂ ) Emissions
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) Emissions
Particulate Matter (PM10) Emissions12,955
1,015
242,410
33015,098
1,485
265,714
257Air Quality
Water Management
--
715
35
0
0
567
115
0%
0%
--EM-EP-160a.1
EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.2
Voluntary disclosure
EM-EP-160a.3
EM-EP-160a.3
Voluntary disclosuren/a
Barrels (bbls)
Number
Barrels (bbls)
Barrels (bbls)
Barrels (bbls)
Barrels of total ﬂuids
spilled/million barrels
produced
Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
Cubic Yards (yd3 )Page 7, 13-15
134.9
31
0
0
28.5
39
0%
0%
10Biodiversity Impacts
Total recordable incident rate (TRIR)
Fatality Rate 
Near miss frequency rate (NMFR)
Average hours of health, safety, and emergency response training
for full-time ﬁeld and contract employees
Average hours of health, safety, and emergency response
training short-service employees
Discussion of management systems used to integrate a culture of
safety throughout the exploration and production life cycle0.60
0
0.65*
18
37
Page 19-20EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.1
EM-EP-320a.2Number of work-related
injuries and illnesses
per 200,000 workhours
Rate
Rate
Hours (h)
Hours (h)
n/a0.54
0
0.88
7
27
Page 7, 26-27Workforce Health & Safety
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves in countries
that have the 20 lowest rankings in Transparency International’s
Corruption Perception Index
Description of the management system for prevention of 
corruption and bribery throughout the value chain0% EM-EP-510a.1
EM-EP-510a.2Percentage (%)
n/a0%Business Ethics & TransparencyEstimated carbon dioxide emissions
embedded in proved hydrocarbon reserves
Invested amount vs. revenue generated 
by renewable energy sales
Discussion of how price and demand for hydrocarbons and/or
climate regulation inﬂuence the capital expenditure strategy
for exploration, acquisition, and development of assets 61,238,606
$273,750
10-K / 10-Q Risks and MD&A section
Refer to Code of Business Conduct and EthicsEM-EP-420a.2
EM-EP-420a.3
EM-EP-420a.4Metric tons (t) CO₂-e
Reporting Currency
n/a53,966,975
$303,600Reserves Valuation & Capital Expenditures
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable
reserves in or near areas of conﬂict
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable
reserves in or near indigenous land
Discussion of engagement processes and due diligence
practices with respect to human rights, indigenous rights,
and operation in areas of conﬂict0%
0%
--0%
0%
Page 29EM-EP-210a.1
EM-EP-210a.2
EM-EP-210a.3Percentage (%)
Percentage (%)
n/aSecurity, Human Rights, & Rights of Indigenous Peoples
Discussion of process to manage risks and opportunities
associated with community rights and interests
Number and duration of non-technical delaysPage 23
0Page 29
0EM-EP-210b.1
EM-EP-210b.2n/a
Number, DaysCommunity Relations
Discussion of corporate positions related to government regulations 
and/or policy proposals that address environmental 
and social factors aﬀecting the industryManagement of the Legal & Regulatory EnvironmentWorkforce*
Oil production, total gross
Natural Gas production, total gross
Synthetic oil production
Synthetic gas production
Number of oﬀshore sites
Number of terrestrial sites EM-EP-000.A
EM-EP-000.A
EM-EP-000.A
EM-EP-000.A
EM-EP-000.B
EM-EP-000.C105
246
0
0
0
094
265
0
0
0
0Mbbl/day
MMscf/day
Mbbl/day
MMscf/day
Number
NumberProcess Safety Event (PSE) rates for 
Loss of Primary Containment (LOPC) of greater consequence (Tier 1)
Description of management systems used to identify 
and mitigate catastrophic and tail-end risksEM-EP-540a.1
EM-EP-540a.20.34
Page 7, 36--
--Rate
n/aCritical Incident Risk Management
Activity Metrics*Revised from prior disclosure of 0.90.
Foreword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure Frameworks
SASB DISCLOSURES          TCFD DISCLOSURESCALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 46CORE THEME TOPIC
GovernanceDescribe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks 
and opportunities.REFERENCE
Page 9
Page 10
Page 10
Page 10
Page 10
Page 10
Page 16, 37
Page 16Page 41Page 10-11
Page 11Describe management’s role in assessing and managing 
climate-related risks and opportunities.
StrategyDescribe the climate-related risks and opportunities the 
organization has identiﬁed over the short, medium, and long term.
Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on 
the organization’s businesses, strategy, and ﬁnancial planning.
Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking 
into consideration diﬀerent climate-related scenarios, 
including a 2°C or lower scenario.
Metrics & TargetsDisclose the metrics used by the organization to assess 
climate-related risks and opportunities in line with its 
strategy and risk management process.
Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 
greenhouse gas emissions and the related risks.
Describe the targets used by the organization to manage 
climate-related risks and opportunities and performance 
against targets.Risk ManagementDescribe the organization’s processes for identifying 
and assessing climate-related risks.
Describe the organization’s processes for managing 
climate-related risks.
Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and 
managing climate-related risks are integrated into the 
organization’s overall risk management.TCFD Index
As described on page 8 and summarized below, Callon has enhanced our disclosures to align with the Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures. Foreword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure Frameworks
SASB DISCLOSURES          TCFD DISCLOSURESCALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CALLON PETROLEUM    |   2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 47This report, as well as related statements on our website, contains 
forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A 
of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements include 
all statements regarding projections, future estimates, plans, 
expectations, and other forward-looking statements, including 
information about sustainability, environmental, health and safety 
goals, plans, policies, programs, and initiatives, anticipated returns 
and financial position, and the implementation of the Company’s 
business plans and strategy, as well as statements including 
the words “believe,” “expect,” “may,” “will,” “forecast,” “outlook,” 
“plans” and words of similar meaning. These statements reflect 
the Company’s current views with respect to future events and 
financial performance based on management’s experience and 
perception of historical trends, current conditions, anticipated 
future developments, and other factors believed to be appropriate. 
No assurances can be given, however, as of this date, that these 
events will occur or that these projections will be achieved, and 
actual results could differ materially from those projected as a 
result of certain factors. Any forward-looking statement speaks 
only as of the date of which such statement is made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to correct or update any 
forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, 
future events, or otherwise, except as required by applicable law. 
Some of the factors which could affect our future results and 
could cause results to differ materially from those expressed in 
our forward-looking statements include the volatility of oil, natural 
gas, and natural gas liquids (“NGLs”) prices or a prolonged period 
of low oil, natural gas, or NGLs prices and the effects of actions 
by, or disputes among or between significant oil and natural gas 
producing countries; general economic conditions, including the 
availability of credit and access to existing lines of credit; changes 
in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, including as a 
result of the COVID-19 pandemic and the actions of certain oil and 
natural gas producing countries; our ability to drill and complete 
wells; operational, regulatory, and environment risks; cost and 
availability of equipment and labor; our ability to finance our 
activities; and other risks more fully discussed in our filings with 
the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), including 
our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report 
on Form 10-Q and subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, 
available on our website or the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.Forward-Looking StatementsFORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTSForeword        TCFD Disclosure        Environmental        Social        Governance        Disclosure Frameworks