2019
Sustainability  
ReportCALLON PETROLEUM  |  2019 Sustainability Report 01Table of Contents
FOREWORD ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
SASB DISCLOSURE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS GOVERNANCEValues
CEO’s Letter
About Callon
About This ReportOverview
Air Emissions
Water Management
Land StewardshipOverview
Callon Highlight: Integration
Safety
Workforce
Our Communities
Callon Highlight: COVID Adaptation
Overview
Board of Directors
Enhanced Risk Oversight
Pay for Performance
Shareholder Engagement
Ethics and TransparencyQuantitative Results Forward-Looking Statements02
03
04
0506
08
11
1315
17
19
21
23
25
27
30
32
33
34
3536 40FOREWORD ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL SASB DISCLOSURE GOVERNANCE02Responsibility
The safety of our employees, contractors and 
communities is of utmost importance – this 
is not negotiable. We recognize that we earn 
the right to operate every day by developing 
our assets responsibly and with respect 
for the environment. We focus on safety 
and protection of the environment in every 
operation, and all Callon representatives are 
authorized to “stop work” if these are at risk.Excellence
Our business requires focused innovation and 
evaluation of new opportunities for resource 
extraction. We balance the application of new 
technologies and testing of new concepts 
with prudent risk management and thorough 
data analysis.Respect
We value the ideas and contributions of all 
team members and show consideration and 
appreciation for one another. We recognize 
and embrace each other’s differences and 
work towards our common goals.Integrity
We always strive to do the right thing and 
pride ourselves on being a preferred partner. 
We are consistently open, honest, ethical 
and genuine. We do what we say and are 
accountable for our actions.
Drive
Keenly focused on leading, we relentlessly 
challenge the status quo to meet and exceed 
our expectations for top-tier performance in 
all aspects of our business.Our Values Are Our FoundationVALUESVALUES CEO ’S LETTER ABOUT CALLON ABOUT THIS REPORTFOREWORD ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE SASB DISCLOSURE
CALLON PETROLEUM  |  2019 Sustainability Report03Callon Petroleum has been a part of America’s independent 
oil and natural gas development story for 70 years. During 
that time, the one thing that has remained constant is our 
commitment to our values. They are what underpins our 
purpose and drives our actions. Over the past few years, 
we have seen emerging investor sentiment that is focused 
on companies holding up their end of the bargain as 
contributors to society. As a public company, we not only 
embrace that obligation, but see it as an opportunity to 
share how our core values translate into positive outcomes. 
Our employees and our leadership seek to exemplify 
these tenets in how we operate our business, care for our 
employees, enrich our communities, and foster practices 
that minimize our impact on the environment. 
In 2019, we undertook a significant step forward by 
acquiring Carrizo Oil & Gas, Inc. as part of an effort to 
advance our business through enhanced scale, asset 
diversity, and efficiency. Throughout this evolution, we have 
continued to improve our processes to reduce our impact 
on the environment, uplift and provide opportunities for 
our employees, and enhance our governance structure. 
We have accomplished this while also outpacing 
our  transaction synergy targets in 2020 while facing 
unprecendented challenges as the global pandemic of 
COVID-19 continues to impact daily life. It’s a testament to 
the culture of Callon and our team’s ability to continuously 
strive for goals that will shape our future. We believe that the market’s focus on environment, sustainability, 
and governance (ESG) related initiatives is growing and 
will continue to influence how we and our peers will be 
viewed as viable investments for years to come. This, our 
inaugural sustainability report, represents the next step 
forward for Callon as we provide greater transparency 
and substantiate our ability to meet the changing needs 
of our stakeholders.Dear Stakeholders
JOSEPH C. GATTO JR.PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERCEO’S LETTER
JOSEPH C. GATTO JR.“The path forward 
for Callon and the 
industry as a whole 
will be defined by 
our ability to address 
the challenges of 
the current business 
environment.”Featured Highlights:
See page 17 for more on the integration  
of Carrizo employees into our team.  
See page 25 for our response and 
adaptation to COVID-19.VALUES CEO’S LETTERFOREWORD ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE SASB DISCLOSURE
ABOUT CALLON ABOUT THIS REPORT
CALLON PETROLEUM  |  2019 Sustainability ReportMIDLAND
BASIN
MIDLAND
DILLEYHOUSTONDELAWARE
BASIN
EAGLE
FORD
04Since 2013, Callon Petroleum has focused on the exploration, 
development, acquisition and production of unconventional 
onshore oil and natural gas properties in the Permian Basin. 
In 2019, we expanded our portfolio to nearly 200,000 net 
acres in the core of the Permian Basin and Eagle Ford Shale 
through the acquisition of Carrizo Oil & Gas, Inc. Over the 
company’s 70-year history, we have weathered the industry’s 
many volatile cycles by focusing on our core strengths and 
evolving as needed. 
Because of our long operating history in the Permian Basin, 
we have positioned ourselves as an industry leader in horizontal drilling and completion techniques in 
unconventional resource plays.
Today, we’re leveraging our meaningful infrastructure 
investments and focusing on our progression to full-
field development. This has allowed us to shift towards a 
sustainable long-term development model which benefits 
not only our company, but the environment and communities 
around us. Our mission is to build trust, create value, and drive 
sustainable growth for our investors, our employees, and the 
communities in which we operate. We strive to protect the 
health and safety of everyone who is part of our operations 
and those who live in the surrounding communities. As such, 
we work with our communities to minimize the impact of oil 
and natural gas development and ensure that they also benefit 
from our operations. Our goal is to instill a sense of community 
responsibility and high ethical standards for all our employees.
At Callon, we strive to deliver sustainable cash flow generation 
for our shareholders. In order to do this, we believe we must 
not only focus on the bottom line but also act as a good 
corporate citizen. Our management team, with support from 
the Environmental, Health, and Safety department, seeks 
to protect and improve the well-being of our employees, 
contractors, and the general public. We are committed to 
an operating philosophy that provides our employees a safe 
workplace while at the same time conducting operations in 
a manner that is environmentally sensitive and community 
aware. We believe that operating responsibly benefits not 
only Callon, but the community at large. A Strong FoundationABOUT CALLON105.5
Pro Forma YE19 Production (Mboe/d)
540
YE19 Proved Reseves (MMboe)
81%
3-Year Reserves CAGR
75%
3-Year Proved, Developed, Producing (PDP) CAGR
45%
Reduction in Total Recordable Incident RateABOUT CALLONFOREWORD ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE SASB DISCLOSURE
CEO ’S LETTER ABOUT THIS REPORT VALUES
CALLON PETROLEUM  |  2019 Sustainability Report≈200k
Net Acres in Texas05In this report, Callon discloses information about our ESG 
policies and programs that we believe is of value to our 
stakeholders. Based on investor feedback, we are using the 
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) standards 
for Oil and Gas – Exploration & Production to report our results, 
including quantitative metrics and qualitative examples. 
Callon closed on our acquisition of Carrizo Oil & Gas, Inc., on 
December 20, 2019. Unless otherwise noted, the information 
and data in this report cover the combined operated assets of 
Callon and Carrizo for the calendar year that ended on Dec. 
31, 2019. We are reporting only one year of combined data, as 
there is no comparable information for prior years. The reported 
financial highlights were drawn from the Callon Petroleum 
Company Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended Dec. 31, 2019. 
Callon determined the contents for this report in discussions 
with key internal and external stakeholders – including 
investors, senior management and our internal subject 
matter experts – as well as an internal review of industry and 
peer ESG reporting practices. In addition, the Callon Board 
of Directors reviewed this report, providing the Company’s 
highest level of internal assurance.
As part of our efforts to continuously improve our ESG 
transparency, reporting and performance, Callon welcomes 
feedback on this report. Please send comments and questions 
about this report to ir@callon.com  or
Callon Petroleum Company 
2000 W Sam Houston Parkway South, Suite 2000  
Houston, Texas 77042  
Attn: Investor RelationsTrue TransparencyABOUT THIS REPORT
ABOUT THIS REPORTFOREWORD ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE SASB DISCLOSURE
VALUES CEO ’S LETTER ABOUT CALLON
CALLON PETROLEUM  |  2019 Sustainability ReportOVERVIEW
Committed to  
Safeguarding the  
Environment
At Callon, respecting the environment as we develop our 
natural resources is both a core value and a business 
imperative. We believe that when we protect the air, water 
and land, we preserve the future for our communities. Callon 
actively works to reduce air emissions, protect local water 
supplies, minimize fresh water use and prevent spills. Our 
ongoing environmental programs have not only reduced 
our operational impacts, but also improved efficiency, 
lowered costs and reduced risk. In this way, environmental 
stewardship does more than allow us to maintain our license 
to operate; it helps drive the sustainability of our business. 
06OVERVIEW AIR EMISSIONS WATER MANAGEMENT LAND STEWARDSHIPFOREWORD SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENTAL SASB DISCLOSURE
CALLON PETROLEUM  |  2019 Sustainability Report1Rate of gas flared is gas flared divided by total gas produced. The reduction percentage compares Callon’s 2019 pro forma rate of gas 
flared to Callon’s 2018 standalone results. 2Fluid spill rate is calculated as the volume of oil or water spilled divided by total volume of oil 
or water produced. The rate of decrease reflects Callon’s 2019 pro forma results to Callon’s 2018 standalone results. 
07The expectation that Callon will operate an environmentally 
conscious business starts with oversight of our performance 
by our Board of Directors. To ensure that our management 
team focuses on continuous improvement, the Board has 
made environmental performance a qualitative factor in 
executive compensation. The Board also assesses the 
potential impact of environmental performance and regulatory 
developments as part of its risk management process.Callon ensures our workforce is aware of our environmental 
programs, protocols and performance expectations. 
Employees and contractors are held accountable for 
adhering to the operating principles in our Safety and 
Environmental Policy  and for meeting the requirements 
of our Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Manual. 
Our Operations Management System (as described on 
page 19) also establishes expectations for operating in an environmentally sound manner. We track key environmental 
indicators, and management is accountable for achieving 
our goals and reporting our performance. Callon designs 
facilities and operates consistent with industry best practices. 
As we acquire assets from other operators, we seek to 
enhance the environmental controls on existing properties 
to align with Callon’s operational philosophies.
Decreased 
fluid spill rate 
by 28%²Doubled  
our water  
recycling  
capacity 28%2019 Environmental Performance Highlights
Transported more 
than 90% of crude 
oil and water via 
pipelinesReduced truck 
traffic by over 
400,000 truck 
loads per yearReduced the rate  
of gas flared by  
more than 30%¹ 
Surpassed $10 million in total 
invested capital in recent years 
for electrification projects that 
lower combustion emissions $10M+30%+OVERVIEWFOREWORD SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENTAL SASB DISCLOSURE
AIR EMISSIONS WATER MANAGEMENT LAND STEWARDSHIP
CALLON PETROLEUM  |  2019 Sustainability ReportReducing Air Emissions Throughout the  
Development and Production LifecycleAIR EMISSIONS
Callon is committed to sustainable and responsible 
development of oil and natural gas resources, while assessing 
and mitigating climate change risk. We seek to reduce 
emissions throughout the development and production 
lifecycle, primarily by implementing best practices and new 
technologies. 
Callon strives to comply with all applicable state and federal 
laws, including the federal Clean Air Act, and we obtain all 
required authorizations and permits to operate. We recognize 
the heightened public focus around greenhouse gas (GHG) 
and other air emissions and their impacts on air quality and 
global climate change. As these concerns raise the potential 
for new laws and regulations, Callon continually evaluates 
and develops strategies to reduce our environmental impact 
and adapt to the ever-changing regulatory landscape.
We track and measure our progress toward reducing GHG 
and methane emissions based on our intensity metric 
(emissions per unit of production). This metric provides a 
more comparable year-to-year measure of performance 
normalized for changes in development activity levels, new 
facility installation, acquisitions and divestitures.This report discloses our air emissions results using SASB 
standards. In the future, we plan to further enhance our 
reporting by assessing climate change risk using the Task 
Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 
reporting framework.
See page 36 for quantitative disclosure of our 2019  
Air Emissions
To determine our overall GHG inventory, we aggregate  
relevant data sources for gross global Scope 1 emissions 
throughout our operations, including combustion equipment, 
storage tanks, flaring, dehydration, pneumatic devices, 
fugitive emissions, drilling and completions activity. Callon 
also reports gross operated GHG emissions in accordance 
with the EPA Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases 
Rule for our production and gathering segments, and our 
annual reports are publicly available. Results reflect our 
commitment and efforts to reduce emissions, both voluntarily 
and as required, through continuous improvement and capital 
investments in facilities and technology as described in the 
following section.
08OVERVIEW AIR EMISSIONS
Callon Emission Reduction Efforts
As part of our environmental program, Callon 
monitors and seeks to reduce GHG and other 
emissions from our operations.  
Our efforts include:
Proactively pursuing secondary pipeline 
options to mitigate flaring risk
Investments in power stations to reduce 
diesel-powered generator engines
Constructing facilities using industry best 
practices for emission control systems
Investments in pipeline takeaway to 
reduce truck traffic
•
•
•
•FOREWORD SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENTAL SASB DISCLOSURE
WATER MANAGEMENT LAND STEWARDSHIP
CALLON PETROLEUM  |  2019 Sustainability Report3 Rate of gas flared is gas flared divided by total gas produced. The reduction percentage compares Callon’s 2019 pro forma rate of gas 
flared to Callon’s 2018 standalone results. 
09Strategies and Best Practices to Reduce  
GHG Emissions and Intensity
Our efforts to reduce Scope 1 direct emissions (operational 
emissions) reduce our carbon footprint and limit air polluting 
emissions, while capturing and conserving valuable natural 
resources. Callon implements long-term and short-term 
strategies and best practices to address emissions from 
various sources.
PROACTIVE EFFORTS TO REDUCE FLARING
Callon actively monitors and seeks to reduce unnecessary 
gas flaring by mitigating flaring risks within our operations 
and routing our production to pipelines for sale. Within our 
own operations, we track combustion engine runtimes and 
work with third-party engine providers to achieve higher 
efficiency, which reduces flaring and the risk of operational 
upsets. When flaring is necessary to control the safe 
operation of our facilities, we are diligent in mitigating flares 
and ensuring flaring is properly permitted and reported. 
In 2018 and 2019, our flared gas volumes were significantly 
impacted by operational upsets at third-party natural gas 
processing and transportation facilities. To reduce the risk of 
future flaring due to these upsets, we are actively pursuing 
secondary gathering options to create offtake alternatives 
in the event of compressor or processing downtime on 
third-party systems. By the first quarter of 2021, we expect 
to have secondary natural gas gathering alternatives for 
our two highest-volume natural gas gathering systems.REDUCING COMBUSTION EMISSIONS 
THROUGHOUT THE DEVELOPMENT AND 
PRODUCTION LIFECYCLE
In recent years, Callon has invested more than $10 million 
to connect our facilities to electric power substations, 
which reduces our use of internal combustion engines,  
the associated GHG emissions and operating costs. Since 
beginning our full-field electrification initiative in 2018, 
all of Callon’s new facilities have been designed to be 
powered by electrical substations, eliminating over 100 
combustion engines from our operating areas. In addition, 
our investments in 2019-2020 have allowed us to eliminate 
over one-third of the combustion engines in our Eagle 
Ford operations. 
When possible, we employ renewable energy sources rather 
than traditional diesel generators to further reduce our carbon 
footprint. Across our operational areas, we have installed 
solar panels to power remote terminal units, measurement 
equipment, and supervisory control and data acquisition 
(SCADA) communication systems.
Callon also pursues production enhancement measures to 
minimize combustion emissions and improve performance. 
We continuously evaluate conversions from natural gas lift 
to rod pump and electric submersible pumps to ensure the 
most efficient method of artificial lift for each well. Other AIR EMISSIONS
$10M+
Recently, Callon invested more than 
$10 million in facility modifications 
to reduce GHG emissions and 
operating costs.30%+
In 2019, Callon reduced the rate  
of gas flared by more than 30%.³FOREWORD SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENTAL SASB DISCLOSURE
OVERVIEW WATER MANAGEMENT LAND STEWARDSHIP
CALLON PETROLEUM  |  2019 Sustainability Report10improvements include replacing direct pumps with variable 
frequency drive (VFD) pumps, which reduce Scope 2 indirect 
emissions and electrical energy costs and increase efficiency.
Callon works closely with our contractors to deploy low-
emitting equipment on the well pad when available. In 2019, 
all drilling rigs operating on legacy Callon assets were dual-
fuel rigs. These rigs use clean-burning compressed natural 
gas (CNG) to power rigs when possible, which cuts GHG 
emissions from diesel engines in our operations.
PREVENTION AND DETECTION EFFORTS 
REDUCE EMISSIONS
Callon applies industry best practices to design and build our 
facilities to reduce vented emissions with emission control 
equipment that captures the largest amount of natural gas, 
450+
In 2019, Callon conducted over 
450 Leak Detection and Repair 
scans through the use of optical 
gas imaging.
400k+
In 2019, Callon eliminated over 
400,000 truck loads per year 
of oil and produced water from 
Texas roadways.including vapor recovery towers (VRT), vapor recovery units 
(VRU), combustors and low-pressure flares. Consistent with 
industry best practice, we do not use high-bleed pneumatic 
controllers, which are a major source of vented emissions. 
We also seek to minimize the release of natural gas by using 
“green completions” on 100% of our wells. Following a brief 
stabilization period, water, oil, and natural gas produced 
during initial flowback operations are routed via pipeline 
to pre-installed Callon permanent facilities, where they are 
processed before being sent to sales. By processing these 
hydrocarbons through our permanent facilities equipped 
with industry-leading emissions control equipment, we 
minimize natural gas venting that can occur with extended 
use of temporary flowback and testing equipment. 
Callon uses optical gas imaging (OGI) cameras to scan 
production facilities for leaks as part of our leak detection 
and repair (LDAR) program, including conducting voluntary 
surveys beyond regulatory requirements. We inspect our 
facilities twice per year using OGI cameras to identify and 
repair fugitive emissions leaks from all equipment and 
associated piping and fittings. Deficiencies found during 
these leak inspections are repaired and re-inspected to 
verify that the repair was effective.
REDUCING TRUCK TRAFFIC
Through Callon’s extensive pipeline and infrastructure 
investments and third-party offtake arrangements, we 
have eliminated over 400,000 truck loads per year of 
oil and produced water from Texas roadways. This not 
only meaningfully reduces our Scope 2 emissions, it also 
significantly decreases our safety incident exposure, mitigating 
the possibility of physical harm to our employees, vendors, 
and the citizens of the communities where we operate.AIR EMISSIONSFOREWORD SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENTAL SASB DISCLOSURE
OVERVIEW WATER MANAGEMENT LAND STEWARDSHIP
CALLON PETROLEUM  |  2019 Sustainability ReportWater is vital to our communities and is also a necessary 
element of our drilling and completions activities. We seek 
to minimize our impact on local water supplies and are 
focused on proper sourcing, recycling, reuse and safe 
disposal of water throughout our operations.
See page 37 for quantitative disclosure of our 2019  
Water Management Activities
Callon strives to preserve local fresh water supplies by 
using alternative sources such as recycled produced 
water and non-fresh water for our operational activities, 
particularly in areas where community water supplies are at 
greatest risk. In 2019, over half of the water we consumed 
was supplied from recycled or non-fresh water sources. 
In recent years, we have prioritized investments in water 
recycling facilities in the Delaware Basin, where fresh water 
supplies are scarce. In 2019, we doubled our recycling 
capacity in the region, and over 60% of the water consumed 
in our legacy operations in that area was sourced from 
recycled produced water. This meaningful investment in 
high-volume recycling facilities will have long-term benefits 
for the environment and our cost structure, and in 2020 
we will complete a six-well pad in the Delaware Basin 
using 100% recycled water. 
In addition to responsibly sourcing our operational water 
needs when possible, Callon also seeks to minimize 
water usage through hydraulic fracture modeling and 
active engineering oversight during well completion operations. These efforts reduced water usage in our 
legacy Delaware Basin operations by more than 20% in 
2019 and are being adopted across our operations to 
further conserve water resources.
Callon makes a concerted effort to manage the water that 
is produced along with oil and natural gas in our operations. 
We recycle water whenever feasible through our own or 
third-party facilities, and plan for the safe transport and 
disposal of water to mitigate spills, protect underground 
resources, and ensure the safety of our local communities. 
When recycling is not feasible, we dispose of our water in 
safe, well-constructed saltwater disposal (SWD) wells that 
are permitted by the Texas Railroad Commission. 
In our Midland Basin operation in 2019, Callon disposed 90% 
of produced water volumes in the Ellenberger formation, 
deeper than our deepest hydrocarbon producing zone. 
By disposing of produced water below our hydrocarbon 
producing intervals, we protect local water supplies and 
mitigate drilling hazards associated with offset injection 
wells. In the Delaware Basin, for produced water volumes 
that are not recycled, we have a strategic venture with a 
third-party vendor to move volumes through a pipeline to 
older depleted oil-producing areas where water can be 
safely reinjected away from current operations and future 
development zones. This preserves future value and reduces 
potential future issues for our stakeholders.
Using Water ResponsiblyWATER MANAGEMENT
11250,000,000
In 2019, Callon recycled over  
250 million gallons of water.WATER MANAGEMENT
48%
35%17%CONSUMED WATER SOURCES
Fresh Water
Non-Fresh Water
Recycled WaterFOREWORD SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENTAL SASB DISCLOSURE
OVERVIEW AIR EMISSIONS LAND STEWARDSHIP
CALLON PETROLEUM  |  2019 Sustainability Report12WATER MANAGEMENT
Groundwater Protection
At Callon, we utilize hydraulic fracturing on all of our wells 
in order to produce hydrocarbons from depths that can 
exceed two miles beneath the surface. During drilling 
operations to reach these depths, we encounter multiple 
shallow zones, some of which contain fresh water ground 
sources. Our well designs and operational procedures are 
crafted to ensure that we do not impact these resources.
Fresh water protection is regulated by the State of Texas, 
and Callon meets or exceeds all State of Texas and federal 
guidelines. Our wells are designed according to industry 
standards with layers of casing and cement to protect 
underground sources of fresh water. Casing and cementing 
are critical parts of the well construction process that not only protect groundwater, but also help ensure efficient 
production of oil and natural gas from the well.
Before hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, begins, the cased 
and cemented well is pressure tested per industry standards 
to ensure well integrity and safety. We also utilize available 
3-D seismic data to interpret and evaluate geologic hazards, 
such as faults, and we use those interpretations to drive our 
development strategy and philosophy for acreage position.
As a neighbor to our peers, we notify nearby operators of 
our drilling and completion schedules to reduce the risk 
of impacting offset operator activity. While this notice is 
required in some areas, we operate under a good neighbor 
policy, so we provide notice regardless of local requirements.Hydraulic fracturing requires different types of sand, 
proppant, and chemicals. Our hydraulic fracturing practices 
do not use diesel or volatile organic compounds (VOCs) 
such as benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, or xylenes (BTEX). 
We support public disclosure of the chemical composition 
of fracturing fluids by working with our vendors to submit 
information to FracFocus. We seek to provide this information 
in a transparent manner so that all of our stakeholders can 
take comfort in the practices, procedures, and technology 
necessary to find and develop oil and natural gas. For 
comprehensive information of our fluids usage on a per-well 
basis, please visit the website www.fracfocus.org.
FOREWORD SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENTAL SASB DISCLOSURE
OVERVIEW AIR EMISSIONS LAND STEWARDSHIP
CALLON PETROLEUM  |  2019 Sustainability ReportCallon demonstrates our respect for the environment by 
striving to minimize the impact of our operations on the 
land and wildlife. To achieve this, we implement industry 
best practices throughout the lifecycle of our operations, 
including environmental site assessments prior to new 
construction, spill prevention measures during active 
operations and responsible disposal of waste when our 
activities are complete.
See page 38 for quantitative disclosure of our 2019  
spills and other biodiversity impacts
SPILL PREVENTION MEASURES
We implement numerous measures across our operations 
to prevent unnecessary releases to the environment. Spill 
prevention, along with management and response plans, are 
prepared and maintained for each operating area. These 
plans describe preventative measures as well as control 
and countermeasures in the event a spill occurs. Routine 
inspections and maintenance are performed by trained 
personnel to verify that engineering controls are in place and 
functioning properly. In addition, annual training is required 
for our operations personnel to review the requirements of 
the plan and personnel responsibilities.
Callon has a system to track, record and determine the cause 
of any oil, produced water or other spill or release over one 
barrel. This allows us to actively identify trends and improve 
our processes to prevent future releases. We are also working 
to implement additional spill mitigation measures, includingPreventing Impacts 
to the Land
13LAND STEWARDSHIP
LAND STEWARDSHIP
Storage Tank 
Closed Vent 
Control SystemSecondary 
Containment  
SystemVapor 
Recovery 
UnitVapor 
Recovery 
TowersEngineering Solutions for Increased Sustainability
1
1
4
2
3
2
 3
 4FOREWORD SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENTAL SASB DISCLOSURE
OVERVIEW AIR EMISSIONS WATER MANAGEMENT
CALLON PETROLEUM  |  2019 Sustainability Report14night-time monitoring and actuated wellhead valves to 
shut in wells based on overpressure and flow alarms for 
higher risk facilities and pipelines.
We proactively utilize new technology in our efforts to 
reduce unintentional releases of produced fluids. Callon 
utilizes aerial surveillance and drone units to identify 
active and potential produced fluids releases in our field 
operations facilities. We foresee the opportunity to further 
enhance our drone usage for broad-scale aerial imagery 
and observation operations, potentially replacing small 
aircraft flyovers and significantly lowering the carbon 
footprint of these operations.
DEVELOPING ACREAGE TO MINIMIZE  
SURFACE IMPACTS
Callon develops our acreage to minimize surface impact 
and uses best practices to protect land and wildlife in the 
areas where we operate. When possible, we develop our assets through multi-well, multi-pad drilling and completion 
operations, which avoids disturbing the same parcel of land 
more than once. Drilling multiple wells on a single pad not 
only minimizes our surface footprint, it also reduces costs 
and enables us to complete drilling more quickly.
Callon does not have any acreage on federal lands. We also 
do not have acreage or reserves in areas containing critical 
habitats of threatened or endangered species as described in 
the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service’s IPaC (Information, Planning, 
and Consultation System) report. Before new construction, we 
identify the presence of any wetlands or neighboring streams 
and take appropriate measures to protect these resources 
throughout the life of our field operations. In addition to pre-
construction reviews, measures are taken to ensure that all 
facilities are actively maintained to prevent migratory birds 
and other wildlife from accessing temporary pits, stacks, 
heaters and all other equipment that could pose a hazard.
Working with Partners to Achieve  
Environmental Improvements
Callon is proud to support partnerships and initiatives that promote transparency and innovation in environmental best 
practices. Callon actively participates in environmental and regulatory peer groups, agency cooperative efforts and subject 
matter committees to exchange technical knowledge, innovation and emissions reduction strategies. These relationships 
also provide opportunities to engage key stakeholders, develop an understanding of sound science, and further progressive, 
responsible, and efficient oil and natural gas production.
*2018 spill rate is for Callon standalone.
See page 38 for spill rate definition.
2X
Callon is doubling the average 
project size in 2020, which reduces 
surface impact.
SPILL RATE*
2018159
201911528% Spill Rate ReductionLAND STEWARDSHIP
FOREWORD SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENTAL SASB DISCLOSURE
OVERVIEW AIR EMISSIONS WATER MANAGEMENT
CALLON PETROLEUM  |  2019 Sustainability ReportOVERVIEW
Focused on  
Our Team and  
Our Communities
Callon employs a talented workforce, and we are 
committed to the safety, health, and development of 
each team member. We value each other’s ideas and 
contributions and foster a respectful workplace where 
we show appreciation, embrace differences, and work 
toward common goals. We believe that a strong safety 
culture is a requirement to be a leading operator in the 
exploration and production (E&P) business. Our values 
of responsibility, integrity, drive, respect, and excellence 
are the foundation upon which our Company was built 
and upon which we will sustain our success.
15OVERVIEW OUR COMMUNITIES COVID ADAPTATION SAFETY INTEGRATION WORKFORCEFOREWORD ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE SASB DISCLOSURE
CALLON PETROLEUM  |  2019 Sustainability Report16Our guiding principles for social responsibility start with our 
values, which enable us to foster trust with our employees, 
our shareholders, and the communities in which we operate. 
Our Board of Directors holds us accountable for actions and 
results that are consistent with those values. Callon leadership 
provides the tone from the top with clear priorities and well-
defined policies. Our front-line managers set the example 
daily through ethical and safety-oriented business practices. 
Finally, we embrace the variety of employee backgrounds 
represented in the Callon workforce that allow us to better 
live the unifying principle of the Callon statement  >
See pages 38 and 39 for quantitative social disclosureWE ARE CALLONOVERVIEWFOREWORD ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE SASB DISCLOSURE
Minorities represent 35% of our full-
time, permanent employee baseAn increase of 73% in 
behavioral-based safety and 
environmental observationsA participation level  
of 92% in our employee  
engagement survey
35%73% #1 92%2019 was our  
best safety year 
on record
50+Based on our annual employee survey results, we were named a Top Workplace by 
the Houston Chronicle for the third year in a row
Supported over 50 unique nonprofit organizations 
focused on education and community development 
where we live and work
OUR COMMUNITIES COVID ADAPTATION SAFETY INTEGRATION WORKFORCE
CALLON PETROLEUM  |  2019 Sustainability ReportRecent Social Performance Highlights17On July 15, 2019, Callon announced we had reached agreement to 
acquire Carrizo Oil & Gas, Inc., a combination that would accelerate key 
corporate goals of enhanced capital efficiency, free cash flow growth 
and a strengthened financial position. Importantly, the acquisition 
would also bring together two talented organizations grounded in 
strong values and similar cultures with a shared commitment to 
responsible operations, integrity, and a drive to deliver results.Integration Builds  
a Strong Team,  
Strong CultureOVERVIEW INTEGRATIONFOREWORD ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE SASB DISCLOSURE
Reflective of a shared commitment to community, in December 2019, the Callon and 
Carrizo teams joined forces to volunteer at the Houston Food Bank to sort and pack 
supplies for families in need.
The combination of Callon Petroleum and Carrizo Oil & Gas, Inc. creates a unique 
company of scale and operational flexibility with beneficial outcomes.OUR COMMUNITIES COVID ADAPTATION SAFETY WORKFORCE
CALLON PETROLEUM  |  2019 Sustainability ReportFrom the moment we announced the acquisition, welcoming 
and connecting with Carrizo employees were important 
to us. We made it a priority to communicate regularly with 
employees of both companies to keep them informed on 
timing and other aspects of the merger. Within a few weeks 
of announcing the merger, CEO Joe Gatto and other Callon 
senior leaders visited every Carrizo location to connect with 
employees, discuss the strategic merits of combining with 
Callon and answer questions. 
We took swift action by standing up a joint integration team 
within ten days of announcing the deal. Over 30 leaders 
representing both companies and all functions met regularly 
throughout the pre-close period to plan and prepare for 
the combination. Our focus was on integrating our teams, 
assets, and systems seamlessly so we could begin working 
toward our operational and financial goals, while supporting 
employees through the transition to a combined company. 
The collaborative atmosphere carried over to communications 
throughout both organizations about the plans and status 
of the integration.Our proactive approach to integration resulted in early 
successes after the merger closed on December 20, 2019. 
We realized key synergy goals, including achieving cost 
reductions ahead of schedule, optimized a combined 2020 
development plan, and implemented best practices and 
technology across our combined organization. In addition, 
many of our team members benefitted from additional career 
development opportunities and responsibilities, as well as 
exposure to new functional areas in our larger organization.
To align ourselves to compete in the market, it was also 
necessary to reduce the post-closing workforce to reflect the 
staffing needs of the combined company. In doing so, it was  
important to us to offer support to impacted employees and 
their families. As part of that transition process, we provided 
outplacement services and  severance benefits, including 
fully subsidized COBRA health insurance, to employees who 
did not continue with the combined company.With a unified team in place, we progressed plans to execute 
an important milestone as a combined Company: The 
conversion of two separate enterprise content management 
systems into one. Just weeks before the conversion was 
scheduled to take place, the COVID-19 pandemic reached 
the U.S., and Callon closed our offices and transitioned 
employees to work from home. Working closely with our 
third-party provider, despite the challenges we completed 
the complex system conversion successfully and on schedule.
This achievement illustrated our team’s ability to set goals, 
focus and deliver results, no matter the challenges, to deliver 
on our promises to stakeholders.
18INTEGRATIONFOREWORD ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE SASB DISCLOSURE
Following the acquisition of Carrizo 
Oil & Gas, Inc., Callon has significantly 
expanded its geographic footprint 
in the premier oil producing plays in 
Texas, while becoming a more efficient 
entity to execute scaled development:100k+
Boe/d of Production$125M+
Annual Run-Rate Synergies200k
Net Acres in 3 Complementary  
Texas Asset AreasOVERVIEW OUR COMMUNITIES COVID ADAPTATION SAFETY WORKFORCE
CALLON PETROLEUM  |  2019 Sustainability Report19Continuously Improving 
Our Safety Performance
Focus Areas for  
Workplace SafetyProtecting our employees, contractors and communities is 
a core value at Callon and our top priority. Our Operations 
Management System (OMS) establishes clear expectations for 
11 elements of operating safely and responsibly throughout the 
lifecycle of our E&P business. We identify and mitigate safety 
risk and integrate a culture of safety by operating according 
to OMS standards, processes and procedures. In 2019, we 
formalized Life Saving Rules that clearly communicate the 
actions workers can take to protect themselves, others 
working on site and the community. In addition, we share 
our Safety and Environmental Policy with all employees 
and contractors. This policy includes our CEO’s signed 
commitment affirming their authorization and responsibility 
to stop work on any activity or situation believed to be a 
danger or risk, without the threat or fear of job reprisal. To 
reinforce accountability for safety results, our Board includes 
safety performance as a factor in our annual bonus program.
To protect our people, continuously improve our safety 
performance and strengthen our safety culture, Callon 
focuses on risk assessment and management, contractor 
management and engaged leadership.SAFETY
Operations Management System  
Essential Elements
Our OMS establishes clear expectations for operating 
safely, responsibly and in an environmentally sound 
manner throughout the E&P lifecycle. OMS covers 11 
essential elements:
RISK ASSESSMENT & MANAGEMENT
TRAINING & COMPETENCY
THIRD-PARTY SERVICES
EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS &  
COMMUNITY AWARENESSDESIGN & CONSTRUCTION
OPERATIONS & MAINTENANCE
INCIDENT MANAGEMENT
ASSESSMENT & IMPROVEMENTLEADERSHIP, COMMITMENT &  
ACCOUNTABILITY
INFORMATION & DOCUMENTATION
MANAGEMENT OF CHANGE
2
5
8
10
3
6
9
11
1
4
7RISK MANAGEMENT
The OMS Risk Assessment and Management element 
provides guidance to prevent workplace injuries, accidents 
and fatalities. This involves pre-job planning to identify 
hazards related to work activities before work is initiated 
and to communicate the controls to mitigate risks. Pre-
job planning includes pre-job safety meetings, job safety 
analysis (JSA), safe work permits and pre-startup safety 
reviews. Throughout work, periodic risk assessments are 
performed and specific levels of management address risks 
according to their risk ranking.
CONTRACTOR MANAGEMENT
Contractors make up a significant portion of Callon’s field 
workforce, and we believe they are an extension of our 
Company. The OMS Third-party Services element requires 
that all contractors acknowledge and adhere to Callon’s core 
values, Safety and Environmental Policy, and Environmental, 
Health and Safety (EHS) Manual. Safety performance and 
programs are a priority factor when we select and assess 
contractors. Before working on Callon locations, contractors 
receive an orientation to understand our expectations 
and requirements, such as Life Saving Rules, incident 
reporting and management, safe driving, the behavior-based 
observation program and Stop Work Authority. To ensure 
that contractors meet our expectations and requirements, 
we monitor and assess their performance, provide feedback 
and correct deficiencies.SAFETYFOREWORD ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE SASB DISCLOSURE
OVERVIEW OUR COMMUNITIES COVID ADAPTATION WORKFORCE INTEGRATION
CALLON PETROLEUM  |  2019 Sustainability Report20ENGAGED LEADERSHIP
Callon believes that active and engaged leaders play the 
essential role of establishing our safety culture. They do so 
by reinforcing our values, setting expectations, providing 
the necessary resources and being accountable, and we 
emphasize this by making leadership the first element 
of our OMS. In 2019, Callon delivered Safety Leadership 
Training for field leaders to enhance their leadership 
skills as they reinforce accountability for safety in our 
daily operations. We also ensure that our site supervisors 
have the necessary training and skills to manage their 
workplaces effectively.
TRAINING
Training is necessary to achieve our requirements and 
expectations for safe and efficient operations. Short-service 
field employees, including contract employees, who are 
new to the industry receive on average 37 hours of initial 
training to understand workplace hazards and personal 
safety. After the initial training, full-time field employees, 
including contract employees, receive an average of 
18 hours each year of continuing education and hazard 
awareness trainings aimed at further enhancing their health, 
safety and environmental baseline knowledge. 
PERFORMANCE
Adherence to our OMS, careful contractor management, 
compliance, training and other initiatives contribute to our 
safety record. We believe that all members of our workforce, 
including employees and contractors, are leaders on the 
job site and we hold them to the highest standards of 
personal conduct and safety performance. By investigating 
safety incidents and near misses, taking corrective actions 37
37 hours of initial training are given to 
short-service field employees new to 
the industry to understand workplace 
hazards and personal safety.
32%
Callon’s TRIR Performance is 32% 
lower than the industry average 
of over 30 peers.and sharing lessons learned, we reinforce that safety is a 
priority across our operations. 
Enhancing our performance requires consistent 
communication of the desired behaviors and timely 
feedback. All field employees and contractors participate 
in our Behavior-Based Safety (BBS) observation program 
to identify and mitigate safety and environmental hazards. 
Reports of BBS observations are reviewed and appropriate 
actions are taken to address workplace hazards. In 2019, 
our workforce increased their submitted observations by 
73% over 2018. We believe that the increased attention 
to safe behaviors contributed to our outstanding safety 
performance. As a result of this continuing focus on safety, 
Callon achieved our best safety year on record in 2019 
with an OSHA Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) of 
0.60, which is well below the industry average of our peers.
As a responsible employer, Callon will continue to put the 
safety of our workforce and communities first.
TRIR PERFORMANCE*
1.11
2018 20190.6045% Incident Rate ReductionSAFETYFOREWORD ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE
*See page 38 for TRIR definition.SASB DISCLOSURE
OVERVIEW OUR COMMUNITIES COVID ADAPTATION WORKFORCE INTEGRATION
CALLON PETROLEUM  |  2019 Sustainability Report21Talented People Pursuing 
Common Goals
At Callon, our team comes first. We value every team 
member and foster an entrepreneurial environment where 
employees are treated with respect and given autonomy 
to take ownership of their work. With strong leadership 
and a passionate team, together we set out to achieve our 
personal and collective goals.WORKFORCE
Engaged and Empowered 
EmployeesSupporting Our Team
There’s an energy and excitement at Callon that sets us apart. 
We empower our employees, engage them in decision-
making at every level and recognize their contributions to 
our success. We reinforce a culture of connection through 
quarterly town halls, access to senior leadership, team- 
building events and frequent communications about Company 
strategy, execution and workplace matters. This enriching 
environment is reflected in our annual employee survey 
results for 2019. Over 92% of our employees participated in 
the survey, and they commonly cited teamwork, integrity, and 
drive for excellence as valued Callon attributes. As a result, 
Callon was selected as a Top Workplace by the Houston 
Chronicle for the third consecutive year.Our employees are the reason Callon is successful, and 
we support our team members with a competitive benefit 
package. Callon invests in the health and well-being of our 
employees and their families by paying 100% of the premiums 
for our health care plan, which includes telemedicine and 
an Employee Assistance Program (EAP). To help employees 
save for retirement, we sponsor a 401(k) plan that includes a 
a 1:1 Company match of employee contributions up to 6% and 
the potential for profit-sharing contributions. Callon continues 
to support employees throughout their careers with a 
competitive vacation policy, family leave, an educational 
assistance program, and a variety of insurance plans and 
other benefits.92%
Callon had a participation level  
of 92% on the 2019 employee  
engagement survey.
 Based on employee feedback, Callon 
was selected as one of the Top Places 
to Work by the Houston Chronicle in 
2019 for the third consecutive year.
WORKFORCEFOREWORD ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE SASB DISCLOSURE
OVERVIEW OUR COMMUNITIES COVID ADAPTATION INTEGRATION SAFETY
CALLON PETROLEUM  |  2019 Sustainability Report22Developing Team and  
Individual CapabilitiesFostering Diversity 
and Inclusion
At Callon, we believe that diversity of backgrounds and 
experiences contributes to an innovative workforce and 
an enriching environment for our team. Our goal is to 
assemble and inspire a team of passionate professionals 
in an environment where they can achieve their career 
goals. We are firmly committed to fostering an inclusive, 
respectful environment and providing equal opportunity 
to all qualified persons in our hiring, development and 
compensation practices. As of January 2020, following the 
closing of the Carrizo acquisition, 35% of our permanent, 
full-time employees represented minorities and 20% 
were female.At Callon, we foster an entrepreneurial workplace where 
employees have autonomy to take ownership of their work 
and to grow professionally. As part of an aligned team 
working in a fast-paced environment, our employees gain 
outstanding experience by connecting their work to the 
Company’s strategic decisions. With the closing of the 
Carrizo transaction in December 2019, our combined team 
has enhanced opportunities for personal development and 
career growth, including expanded leadership opportunities 
and exposure to a diversified asset base. 
In 2019, we enhanced our development programs with 
a company-wide initiative focused on goal-setting and feedback to support all of our employees in reaching 
their personal goals. We regularly offer in-house training 
programs across the workforce and also invest in our 
emerging leaders by sponsoring them for external courses 
sponsored by universities and other prominent leadership 
development programs. Over the past year, our Permian 
Basin superintendents and engineering and facilities 
managers built on their university program experience 
by studying leadership skills and principles together 
while simultaneously receiving personalized executive 
coaching. This development approach boosted both team 
and individual capabilities to manage our assets safely, 
responsibly and effectively.
35%
Minorities
Female20%
WORKFORCEFOREWORD ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE
Callon continues to support employees throughout their careers with an educational assistance program.SASB DISCLOSURE
OVERVIEW OUR COMMUNITIES COVID ADAPTATION INTEGRATION SAFETY
CALLON PETROLEUM  |  2019 Sustainability Report23OUR COMMUNITIES
Making a Positive  
Impact
Part of Callon’s mission is to support strong, sustainable 
communities where we operate. The Company shares our 
employees’ commitment to being a good neighbor and a 
meaningful contributor in our communities.
Going the Extra Mile for
Community Stakeholders
We recognize that we earn the right to operate every day and 
consider the safety of our communities to be non-negotiable. 
To prevent and mitigate safety, health and environmental 
incidents, we voluntarily post our emergency call number in 
a visible place on each wellsite, facility and lease entry, and 
a Callon team member responds timely to each call received. 
We assess the situation and respond appropriately – even 
if we determine that Callon is not responsible for the issue. 
When our work requires development projects near populated 
areas, we make every effort to mitigate the impact of 
our activities. Callon works closely with city officials and 
neighboring landowners to proactively address noise, traffic, 
greenhouse gas emissions, liquid spill prevention and other 
risks to our communities. As a good community partner, when 
our operations are within a proximate distance to developed 
areas, Callon has proactively installed sound barriers to 
minimize operational disturbances to our neighbors. By going 
the extra mile, we demonstrate our willingness to work with 
our community and sustain our reputation as the preferred 
energy company in the Permian Basin. 
OUR COMMUNITIESFOREWORD ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE
In 2019, Callon proactively constructed sound barriers to minimize noise disruption to surrounding areas.SASB DISCLOSURE
OVERVIEW COVID ADAPTATION INTEGRATION SAFETY WORKFORCE
CALLON PETROLEUM  |  2019 Sustainability Report24Addressing Local Needs
To help build strong communities, our philanthropy is focused 
on local organizations dedicated to community development 
and education. Our support ranges from encouraging 
employees to volunteer for nonprofit organizations and 
represent Callon at fundraisers to matching employee 
donations to qualified 501(c)(3) organizations on a 1:1 basis 
up to $1,000.
In 2019, our Houston team united to support many local 
needs, including various fundraising events and volunteer 
outings such as the Houston Food Bank (see p. 17). We also 
supported children and families in need throughout the year, 
including a “back to school” backpack campaign and an 
“adopt an angel” program during the holidays.Our Midland Callon Cares Committee brought employees 
and families together for bowling and a school supply drive 
for Communities in Schools. Midland also supported Habitat 
for Humanity and West Texas Food Bank with donations and 
volunteers and made financial contributions to the Midland 
Education Foundation and other organizations. 
To show our appreciation for first responders, Callon 
and our employees support volunteer firefighters, law 
enforcement agencies and other front-line providers 
throughout the Permian Basin and Eagle Ford regions. 
Eagle Ford employees are active members of LEPCs (local 
emergency planning committees) in several counties, 
enabling them to build relationships with first responders and maintain readiness for emergencies. Through their 
extensive community connections, Eagle Ford employees 
also address a variety of local needs, such as providing 
Christmas gifts for at-risk children.
We believe corporate stewardship is both a financial 
obligation and a social duty. Callon will continue to value 
the perspectives of our community stakeholders and strive 
to be a good neighbor.
OUR COMMUNITIESFOREWORD ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE SASB DISCLOSURE
OVERVIEW COVID ADAPTATION INTEGRATION SAFETY WORKFORCE
CALLON PETROLEUM  |  2019 Sustainability Report25COVID ADAPTATIONFOREWORD ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE SASB DISCLOSURE
Beginning in March 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic caused significant 
disruption to our communities, the economy, and our industry. 
Throughout this period, Callon’s decisions and actions have been 
guided by our commitment to meeting our social obligations and the 
interests of our many stakeholders. We have focused on the health 
and safety of our employees, their families, contractors, suppliers 
and communities, while working to build and preserve the value of 
our Company. Our team has adapted to fast-changing conditions, 
acting with a sense of urgency to deliver on our promises to our 
stakeholders by operating the Company safely, with thoughtfulness 
and efficiency.Adapting Our  
Business in  
Turbulent TimesOVERVIEW INTEGRATION SAFETY WORKFORCE OUR COMMUNITIES
CALLON PETROLEUM  |  2019 Sustainability Report26COVID ADAPTATIONFOREWORD ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE SASB DISCLOSURE
Prioritizing Health and Safety
When COVID-19 began to spread across the U.S., Callon 
took quick actions to manage our business effectively, 
prioritizing the health and safety of our team members and 
their families. In our field locations, Callon implemented 
COVID-19 screening, social distancing, and other health and 
safety protocols for  workers whose presence was required for 
safe operations. We closed our office locations in mid-March 
to reduce the risk of virus spread and provided employees 
with the equipment they needed to work remotely. Callon 
also supported the health needs of employees and their 
families by continuing our long-standing practice of paying 
100% of medical insurance premiums, as well as engaging 
a third-party medical advisor to consult with employees who 
had possible exposure to COVID-19 and recommend proper 
protocols. Throughout the pandemic, we have maintained a frequent pace of formal and informal communications with 
our workforce to reinforce safety protocols, apprise the team 
of our plans, and continue to foster a sense of connection 
across Team Callon. 
Ensuring Business Continuity
Callon convened a cross-functional working group early 
to plan for the new business realities and to mitigate risks. 
We pivoted our financial and operational strategy to secure 
financial flexibility in 2020 and beyond. Our decisive actions 
included adding meaningful hedge protection to support 
our financial goals, scaling back our capital plan for 2020 by 
almost 50%, and reducing our operating cost structure. To 
help achieve our targeted cost savings and in the interest of 
good governance, all Callon directors and officers agreed to 
reduce their 2020 compensation.Our team continues to show resiliency and creativity as we 
tackle the challenges of managing our business during a 
global pandemic. Every day, we strive to align our activity level 
against an ever-changing economic backdrop, safeguard our 
workforce, assist our communities, protect the environment 
and govern Callon to preserve the sustainability of our business. 
JOSEPH C. GATTO JR., PRESIDENT & CEO“Callon has always sought to support the communities where we live and work, 
and during the COVID-19 crisis that dedication has not wavered. Across our 
various offices, we’ve had numerous employees come forward and offer ideas 
as to how we can be of service to those in need. We’ve spent time feeding our 
first responders, providing encouragement and gratitude to our local hospital 
workers, and contributing to offset the new demands on our educational 
system. Our employees have given selflessly to assist their communities.  
They exemplify the spirit of Callon.” OVERVIEW INTEGRATION SAFETY WORKFORCE OUR COMMUNITIES
CALLON PETROLEUM  |  2019 Sustainability Report
OVERVIEW
27Building Trust  
and Creating  
Long-term Value
Callon seeks to operate our business responsibly, 
ethically and in a manner aligned with the interests of 
our shareholders. We are committed to effective and 
sustainable corporate governance, which we believe 
strengthens accountability, promotes the long-term 
interests of our shareholders and helps build public trust 
in our Company. Our core values – responsibility, integrity, 
drive, respect and excellence – support good governance 
and our efforts to integrate sustainable business practices 
and achieve long-term results. OVERVIEW BOARD OF DIRECTORS ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY ENHANCED RISK OVERSIGHT SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PAY FOR PERFORMANCEFOREWORD ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE SASB DISCLOSURE
CALLON PETROLEUM  |  2019 Sustainability Report28Recent Governance Highlights
Every year, the board and its 
committees conduct annual 
self-evaluations and review 
governance documents to  
adopt changes as needed.We have adopted 
stringent insider 
trading, anti-hedging 
and anti-pledging 
policies.
We elected to report 
sustainability and ESG 
performance using the  
SASB standards, based  
on comprehensive  
shareholder feedback.We expanded the scope of our independent 
Nominating and Corporate Governance 
Committee to enhance oversight of Callon’s 
ESG policies, performance and disclosure.Election of directors 
is by majority of votes 
cast in an uncontested 
election.Ten of our 11  
board directors 
are independent.Joseph C. Gatto, Jr., our 
President and CEO, is  
the only non-independent 
member of the Board. All Board committees comprised  
entirely of independent directors.  
An independent, non-executive director 
serves as Chairman of the Board. 10/11
The Board met 
formally 15 times 
in 2019. 15OVERVIEWFOREWORD ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE SASB DISCLOSURE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY ENHANCED RISK OVERSIGHT SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PAY FOR PERFORMANCE
CALLON PETROLEUM  |  2019 Sustainability Report29The Callon Board of Directors is responsible for providing 
oversight and direction to the management of our Company 
for the benefit of shareholders. To assist the Board in 
fulfilling its responsibilities, our Corporate Governance 
Guidelines describe foundational corporate governance 
policies and practices related to its composition, role, 
structure, and interaction with external constituencies. Our 
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and charters for the 
four standing Board committees provide additional guidance.
Throughout Callon’s 70-year history, our Board has actively 
shaped our strategy to drive Callon forward. With oversight 
and guidance from the Board’s Strategic Planning and 
Reserves Committee, our governance structure has positioned the Company to compete in our sector. Our 
directors’ commitment to continually enhance our portfolio 
and deliver value culminated in the transformational 
acquisition of Carrizo in 2019. By expanding our asset base 
and diversifying our portfolio, this strategic combination 
created a more durable, efficient and competitive Company 
to deliver returns to our shareholders. 
With our mission to build trust, Callon recognizes the 
role our environmental, social and governance (ESG) 
performance plays in fostering business sustainability. 
As part of its corporate governance responsibilities, our 
Board regularly addresses our progress in safeguarding 
our team and communities, minimizing our environmental OVERVIEW
impacts, and developing and diversifying our workforce. 
In early 2020, we strengthened the ESG oversight role of 
the Board’s Nominating and Governance Committee to 
ensure we focus our time, resources and engagements 
effectively to achieve our ESG goals. 
We continuously assess our corporate governance principles 
and practices to ensure they are effective and help us 
perform to the high ethical standards we set for ourselves. 
Callon reviews our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code 
and other governance documents annually, or more often 
if business needs warrant it. FOREWORD ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE SASB DISCLOSURE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY ENHANCED RISK OVERSIGHT SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PAY FOR PERFORMANCE
CALLON PETROLEUM  |  2019 Sustainability Report30Ensuring Effective Oversight from 
Our Board of Directors
At Callon, we believe that a Board with a variety of skills 
and perspectives enhances constructive discussion and 
decision-making among the directors, allowing the Board 
to perform its strategic and oversight roles satisfactorily for 
our shareholders. We are committed to building a diverse 
Board of individuals with different backgrounds, professional 
experiences, education, gender, race or ethnicity, age, and 
other individual qualifications and attributes, and we have 
adopted a Board diversity policy within our Corporate 
Governance Guidelines. When our Nominating and Corporate 
Governance Committee considers new candidates for the 
Board, they instruct search firms to seek to present women 
and minorities among the candidates. Two women serve as 
Callon directors and over half of our directors (55%) have 
Board tenure of less than five years.
In 2019, we added three new directors to our Board as 
a result of the Carrizo acquisition. Messrs. Johnson and Webster and Ms. Sevilla-Sacasa bring valuable range of 
thought and experience to our Board, as well as continuity 
with the acquired assets. 
Independent directors offer different perspectives to 
our Board that contribute to developing a sustainable 
corporate strategy. Callon maintains an independent 
Board of Directors in accordance with New York Stock 
Exchange (NYSE) standards, U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC) rules and regulations, and our Corporate 
Governance Guidelines. We have a policy that requires 
the majority of the Board to be independent, and ten of 11 
Board members met the qualifications for independence 
in 2019; only the chief executive officer (CEO) did not 
qualify as independent. In 2019, the roles of Chairman 
and CEO were separate, with the Chairman meeting the 
qualifications for independence. Standing Committees  
of Callon Petroleum Board*
NOMINATING & CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Focuses on issues related to corporate  
governance, Board and committee composition, 
and director and executive officer succession. 
This committee also oversees environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) policies, 
performance and disclosure to ensure Callon 
makes progress toward achieving our ESG goals.
COMPENSATION 
Establishes our compensation programs,
oversees their alignment with our business 
strategies, and reviews our compensation 
policies to ensure they do not encourage 
unnecessary or excessive risk-taking by 
management.
STRATEGIC PLANNING & RESERVES 
Oversees development and implementation 
of our strategic plan and the integrity of our 
reserve estimation reporting process and 
related disclosures. The Committee guides 
decisions on key strategic moves, including 
the Carrizo acquisition in 2019.
2
3
4AUDIT 
Oversees material risk exposures in the 
areas of financial reporting, internal controls, 
compliance, hedging and cybersecurity. It also 
oversees responses to any alleged violations 
of the Code.
1
*Each charter requires committee members to be independent./TENURE DIVERSITY INDEPENDENCE
6/11 directors have tenures  
of five or fewer years2/11 directors are female 10/11 directors are independentBOARD OF DIRECTORS
BOARD OF DIRECTORSOVERVIEWFOREWORD ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE SASB DISCLOSURE
ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY ENHANCED RISK OVERSIGHT SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PAY FOR PERFORMANCE
CALLON PETROLEUM  |  2019 Sustainability Report611 /1011 /211l
CEO/President Experience
Senior Executive Leadership
Outside Public Boards (Current)
Outside Public Boards (Prior)
E&P Industry Experience
Financial Expert
Financial Literacy
Financial Oversight/Accounting
Petroleum and Other Engineering
Geologist or Geophysicist
HES Experience/Environmental
Strategic Advising
Investment Banking
Supply Chain
Technology/IT/CybersecurityGender DiversityAge (as of April 1, 2020) 63
660
264
572
1649
264
172
1369
964
171
668
1 Tenure (as of April 1, 2020)
Energy (Other than E&P) Industry
Experience
Government/Public Policy/
RegulatoryNameBarbara J.
FaulkenberryMichael L.
FinchL. Richard Flury
(Chairman)Joseph C.
Gatto, Jr.S.P.
Johnson IVLarry D.
McVayAnthony J.
NocchieroFrances A.
Sevilla-SacasaJames M.
TrimbleSteven A.
WebsterMatthew R.
Bob
31CURRENT COMPOSITION OF THE BOARDBOARD OF DIRECTORSFOREWORD ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE SASB DISCLOSURE
OVERVIEW ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY ENHANCED RISK OVERSIGHT SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PAY FOR PERFORMANCE
CALLON PETROLEUM  |  2019 Sustainability Report32ENHANCED RISK OVERSIGHT
Enhanced Risk  
Oversight
As companies compete in a highly complex business 
and legal environment, prudent risk management is 
essential for sustainable operations and for creating 
durable shareholder returns. Callon has enhanced our 
risk oversight and risk management by integrating formal 
enterprise risk management processes involving our 
Board and management with our internal audit function. 
These ongoing, linked processes ensure we assess, 
identify, rank and mitigate the most material risks to Callon, 
and the Board and management regularly reassess the 
effectiveness of these processes. 
The Callon management team has daily responsibility for 
assessing and managing material operational and financial 
risks to the Company, and our Board provides oversight 
of risk management as well as the Company's long-term 
strategic direction. We believe this provides assurance 
that risks we undertake are consistent with the Board’s 
risk tolerance. This Board leadership structure, coupled 
with a high degree of interaction among our directors and 
senior leaders, facilitates the Board’s oversight function and 
ensures information flow and communication throughout 
the year. While the full Board is ultimately responsible for 
risk oversight, each Board committee has primary risk 
oversight within its specific areas of responsibility.
For a comprehensive discussion of material risks Callon 
has identified, please refer to our Form 10-K for the fiscal 
year ended December 31, 2019.ENHANCED RISK OVERSIGHT
STRATEGIC
FINANCIAL OPERATIONAL
LEGAL ESGSEVERITYFREQUENCY
ONSET SPEEDRISK
Enterprise Risk Management
A practice governed by the Board and led by executive management, which focuses on both current 
and emerging risks which allows Callon to protect stakeholder interests by integrating targeted 
mitigation efforts into its corporate planning process.FOREWORD ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE SASB DISCLOSURE
OVERVIEW ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PAY FOR PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
CALLON PETROLEUM  |  2019 Sustainability Report33Executive Compensation that 
Pays for Performance
Callon’s executive compensation program is designed 
to reward the management team for delivering results 
consistent with our long-term strategic objectives and to 
align with our shareholders’ interests. The Compensation 
Committee, which is made up entirely of independent 
directors, strives to evolve Callon’s compensation each year 
to reflect shifts in shareholder priority. Our compensation 
program is heavily weighted to “at-risk” compensation 
delivered through annual cash incentives and long-term 
equity-based incentive awards. The committee believes 
this approach provides incentives for our named executive 
officers (NEOs) to enhance shareholder value, successfully 
implement our business plan, and continuously improve 
corporate and individual performance.
We believe our compensation program incorporates many 
sound practices, such as substantial focus on performance-
based pay, strong alignment with shareholder returns, 
peer group benchmarking of executive compensation 
and robust stock ownership guidelines for NEOs and 
directors. In addition, Callon has adopted a peer-leading 
clawback policy that establishes conditions under which the 
Committee may recoup previously paid compensation in the 
event of error, misconduct or certain other circumstances.
As a result of feedback received during ongoing shareholder 
engagements, the Compensation Committee has made 
important modifications to Callon’s incentive programs. For 
2019, the committee instituted a formulaic approach for the 
Company’s annual incentive compensation program with a 60/40 weighting of quantitative/qualitative factors that 
included shareholder priorities of corporate-level returns, 
capital efficiency, cash flow, balance sheet strength and 
ESG performance. For 2020, the committee added an 
absolute total shareholder return (TSR) modifier to the 2020 
performance share unit grants that reduces outcomes if 
TSR is less than 5% over the performance period, creating 
a further tie to absolute shareholder returns.
In the second quarter of 2020, Callon took steps to recalibrate 
our compensation programs, including voluntary reductions 
by officers and directors, in response to the severe market 
disruption caused by the global outbreak of the COVID-19 
virus and concurrent supply-related decisions by OPEC+ 
producers as described more fully in the COVID Adaptation. 
The Compensation Committee continues to review 
shareholder votes and feedback to ensure our executive 
compensation programs align with their interests. Additional 
details about Callon’s executive compensation program 
are available in our 2020 proxy statement.Compensation Program
Governance Practices
Substantial focus on performance-based pay
Strong alignment with shareholder returns 
through significant weighting on long-term 
incentives
Review of peer group benchmarks when 
establishing compensation
Robust stock ownership guidelines for our 
NEOs and directors
Clawback policy applies in the event of error, 
fraud or misconduct
Double-trigger change in control severance 
for both cash severance and equity vesting
NO hedging or pledging of our stock
NO employment agreements
NO excessive benefits or perquisites
NO single trigger change in control benefits>90%
Over 90% of votes cast were in 
favor of our executive compensation 
programs for the past 5 years
PAY FOR PERFORMANCEPAY FOR PERFORMANCEFOREWORD ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE SASB DISCLOSURE
OVERVIEW ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT BOARD OF DIRECTORS ENHANCED RISK OVERSIGHT
CALLON PETROLEUM  |  2019 Sustainability Report34
35%
Representatives of our Board met with 
holders representing 35% of our shares 
outstanding to ensure the Carrizo 
acquisition reflected shareholder interests.
>80%
Management also showed diligence 
and willingness to engage with 
shareholders and met with over 80% 
of shareholders after the acquisition 
was announced.Active Shareholder Engagement Practices
At Callon, we believe delivering value to our stakeholders 
requires alignment. Our governance structure and 
ongoing engagements with shareholders, employees and 
communities where we operate in 2019 helped position 
us to achieve our corporate goals.
In particular, shareholder engagement and feedback were 
critical to the successful close of our strategic combination 
with Carrizo in 2019. Callon’s independent Board members 
met with holders representing 35% of shares outstanding to 
ensure we achieved a transaction that reflected shareholder 
interests. Management also showed diligence and 
willingness to engage with shareholders and met with over 
80% of shareholders after the acquisition was announced. We take shareholder feedback into consideration when 
planning our ESG activities. Based on consistent feedback 
from a majority of our investors, Callon has elected to 
use Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) 
standards to report our sustainability efforts and ESG 
performance. In addition, we have proactively hosted 
ESG-focused meetings with our largest shareholders and 
include outreach efforts to internal sustainability leaders 
at each of our prospective holders when contacting the 
relevant energy analysts and portfolio managers.SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENTSHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENTFOREWORD ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE
HOUSTONDALLASDENVER
SAN FRANCISCO
LOS ANGELESKANSAS CITYCHICAGOTORONTO
BOSTON
RALEIGHNEW YORK CITY
NEW ORLEANS
MIAMI
2019 SHAREHOLDER CONTACT
Frequent and ongoing shareholder 
communication and contact are important 
to Callon. In 2019, we targeted key investor 
markets across the United States and 
Canada, meeting with:
Over 228 individual analysts and 
portfolio managers from 140 unique 
institutional investment firms
Representing more than $6 trillion in 
Equity Assets under ManagementSASB DISCLOSURE
OVERVIEW ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY BOARD OF DIRECTORS ENHANCED RISK OVERSIGHT PAY FOR PERFORMANCE
CALLON PETROLEUM  |  2019 Sustainability Report35
Committed to Being a Responsible 
Corporate CitizenETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY
Callon has built a strong foundation over our 70-year 
history as a trusted partner in business and in our 
communities. Our core value of integrity drives Callon 
to always strive to do the right thing by being open, 
honest, ethical, and genuine. We do what we say and 
are accountable for our actions.
Callon’s integrity, reputation and success depend on 
the individual actions of our employees, directors and 
others acting on the Company’s behalf. Our Code of 
Business Conduct and Ethics and related policies set 
out our expectation that team members maintain high 
ethical standards and comply with all applicable legal 
requirements when conducting Callon’s business. 
The Code covers topics ranging from conflicts of interest 
and equal employment opportunity to anti-harassment and 
compliance with applicable laws. The Code also explicitly 
prohibits directors, officers and employees from engaging 
in hedging transactions in Callon stock. 
All employees are required to commit to the Code 
of Business Conduct annually, acknowledging their 
understanding of and compliance with its key policies, 
and we conduct annual Code training. We encourage employees to bring any issues or concerns 
to their supervisor, human resources, the legal organization 
or a member of the leadership team. In addition, we 
have a toll-free ethics hotline available for anonymous, 
confidential reporting at 1-844-471-7637 and online at 
callon.ethicspoint.com. 
Callon does not permit any form of retribution or retaliation 
against any person who makes a good-faith report of 
known or suspected violations of the Code or suspected 
illegal or unethical conduct.
POLITICAL ENGAGEMENT
Consistent with our Code of Business Conduct, Callon 
does not make corporate contributions to individual 
candidates or political committees supporting candidates 
in federal, state or local elections. We do not sponsor a 
political action committee, and we encourage employees 
to vote and support the candidates and parties of their 
choice. To communicate our views on legislative and 
regulatory matters affecting our operations and industry, 
we engage in the legislative and regulatory processes 
through various trade associations.ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY FOREWORD ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE SASB DISCLOSURE
70+
For over 70 years, Callon has been a 
trusted partner in business and in the 
communities in which it operates.
Should any employee witness unethical 
practices or have concerns, an 
anonymous ethics forum can be reached 
online at callon.ethicspoint.com or by 
phone at 1-844-471-7637.OVERVIEW BOARD OF DIRECTORS ENHANCED RISK OVERSIGHT PAY FOR PERFORMANCE SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
CALLON PETROLEUM  |  2019 Sustainability Report36
RESERVES VALUATION &
CAPITAL EXPENDITURESEstimated carbon dioxide emissions embedded
in proved hydrocarbon reservesMetric tons (t) CO₂-e EM-EP-420a.2 61,238,606
Amount invested in renewable energy, 
revenue generated by renewable energy salesReporting Currency EM-EP-420a3 273,750WORKFORCE HEALTH &
SAFETYTotal recordable incident rate (TRIR)Number of work-related 
injuries and illnesses per 
200,000 workhoursEM-EP-320a.1 0.60
Fatality Rate Rate EM-EP-320a.1 0
Near miss frequency rate (NMFR) Rate EM-EP-320a.1 0.65
Average hours of health, safety, and emergency response 
training for full-time ﬁeld and contract employeesHours (h) EM-EP-320a.1 18
Average hours of health, safety, and emergency response 
training for short-service employeesHours (h) EM-EP-320a.1 37
BUSINESS ETHICS &
TRANSPARENCY
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves 
in or near areas of conﬂictPercentage (%) EM-EP-210a.1 0%
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves
in or near indigenous landPercentage (%) EM-EP-210a.2 0%GREENHOUSE GAS 
EMISSIONS
AIR QUALITYGross Scope 1 GHG Emissions Metric tons CO₂-e(t) EM-EP-110a.1 1,450,165
Gross Scope 1 Methane Emissions 
as a percentage of GHG EmissionsPercentage (%) EM-EP-110a.1 28%
Percentage of Scope 1 GHG Emissions 
covered under emissions-limiting regulationsPercentage (%) EM-EP-110a.1 100%
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from ﬂared hydrocarbons Metric tons CO₂-e EM-EP-110a.1 544,678
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from other combustion Metric tons CO₂-e EM-EP-110a.1 523,029
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from process emissions Metric tons CO₂-e EM-EP-110a.1 0
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from other vented emissions Metric tons CO₂-e EM-EP-110a.1 372,216
Nitrogen Oxide (NO) Emissions Metric tons (t) EM-EP-120a.1 7,567
Sulfur Dioxide (SO2) Emissions Metric tons (t) EM-EP-120a.1 103
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) Emissions Metric tons (t) EM-EP-120a.1 185,865
Particulate Matter (PM10) Emissions Metric tons (t) EM-EP-120a.1 26Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from fugitive emissions Metric tons CO₂-e EM-EP-110a.2 10,242Gross Scope 1 GHG Intensity RateMetric tons CO₂-e(t)/
production (MBOE)EM-EP-110a.1 27
WATER MANAGEMENT
BIODIVERSITY IMPACTSTotal fresh water withdrawnThousand Cubic 
Meters (m3)EM-EP-140a.1 5,010
Total fresh water consumedThousand Cubic 
Meters (m3)EM-EP-140a.1 4,183
Percentage of fresh water consumed in regions with 
High or Extremely High Baseline Water StressPercentage (%) EM-EP-140a.1
Voluntary Disclosure36%
Total Volume of Non Fresh Water Withdrawn Thousand Cubic 
Meters (m3)2,741
Total Volume of Recycled Produced WaterThousand Cubic 
Meters (m3)1,484
Volume of produced water and ﬂowback generatedThousand Cubic 
Meters (m3)EM-EP-140a.2Voluntary Disclosure
15,854
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback discharged Percentage (%) EM-EP-140a.2 0%
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback recycled Percentage (%) EM-EP-140a.2 17%
Hydrocarbon content in discharged water Metric tons (t) EM-EP-140a.2 0
Percentage of hydraulically fractured wells for which there
is public disclosure of all fracturing ﬂuid chemicals usedPercentage (%) EM-EP-140a.3
Voluntary Disclosure100%
% Produced Water on Pipe Percentage (%) >90%Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback injected Percentage (%) EM-EP-140a.2 83%Percentage of total fresh water withdrawn in regions with 
High or Extremely High Baseline Water StressPercentage (%) EM-EP-140a.1 34%
Number of hydrocarbon spills to the environment Number EM-EP-160a.2 65
Number of produced water spills to the environment Barrels (bbls) EM-EP-160a.2 49
Aggregate volume of produced water spills
 to the environmentBarrels (bbls) EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.212,494
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills in the Arctic Barrels (bbls) 0
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills impacting 
shorelines with ESI rankings 8-10Barrels (bbls) 0
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon recovered
from the environmentBarrels (bbls) EM-EP-160a.2EM-EP-160a.2
614
Aggregate volume of produced water recovered 
from the environmentBarrels (bbls) EM-EP-160a.2 6,707
WORKFORCE*Total Permanent, Full-Time Employees Number Voluntary Disclosure 337
Women, as a % of Workforce Percentage (%) Voluntary Disclosure 20%
Minorities, as a % of Workforce Percentage (%) Voluntary Disclosure 35%
Percent of Workforce represented by Union Percentage (%) Voluntary Disclosure 0%COMMUNITY RELATIONS Number and duration of non-technical delays Number, Days EM-EP-210b.2 0SECURITY, HUMAN RIGHTS & 
RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS
PEOPLESPercentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves in 
countries that have the 20 lowest rankings in Transparency 
International’s Corruption Perception IndexPercentage (%) EM-EP-510a.1 0%Percentage of proved reserves in or near sites with 
protected conservation status or endangered species habitatPercentage (%) EM-EP-160a.3 0%
Percentage of probable reserves in or near sites with
 protected conservation status or endangered species habitatPercentage (%) EM-EP-140a.3 0%Total Fluids Spill Rate Barrels of total ﬂuids 
spilled/million barrels 
producedVoluntary Disclosure 115Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills 
to the environmentBarrels (bbls) EM-EP-160a.2 773TOPIC DEFINITION UNIT OF MEASURE SASB METRIC 2019SASB DISCLOSUREFOREWORD ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL SASB DISCLOSURE GOVERNANCE
Quantitative Results
CALLON PETROLEUM  |  2019 Sustainability ReportIn this section, we disclose quantitative information about our ESG performance that we believe is of value to our stakeholders. Based on investor feedback, we are using the 
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) standards for Oil and Gas – Exploration & Production to report our results, including quantitative metrics and qualitative 
examples. This data represents the combined operated assets of Callon and Carrizo for the calendar year that ended on Dec. 31, 2019.RESERVES VALUATION &
CAPITAL EXPENDITURESEstimated carbon dioxide emissions embedded
in proved hydrocarbon reservesMetric tons (t) CO₂-e EM-EP-420a.2 61,238,606
Amount invested in renewable energy, 
revenue generated by renewable energy salesReporting Currency EM-EP-420a3 273,750WORKFORCE HEALTH &
SAFETYTotal recordable incident rate (TRIR)Number of work-related 
injuries and illnesses per 
200,000 workhoursEM-EP-320a.1 0.60
Fatality Rate Rate EM-EP-320a.1 0
Near miss frequency rate (NMFR) Rate EM-EP-320a.1 0.65
Average hours of health, safety, and emergency response 
training for full-time ﬁeld and contract employeesHours (h) EM-EP-320a.1 18
Average hours of health, safety, and emergency response 
training for short-service employeesHours (h) EM-EP-320a.1 37
BUSINESS ETHICS &
TRANSPARENCY
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves 
in or near areas of conﬂictPercentage (%) EM-EP-210a.1 0%
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves
in or near indigenous landPercentage (%) EM-EP-210a.2 0%GREENHOUSE GAS 
EMISSIONS
AIR QUALITYGross Scope 1 GHG Emissions Metric tons CO₂-e(t) EM-EP-110a.1 1,450,165
Gross Scope 1 Methane Emissions 
as a percentage of GHG EmissionsPercentage (%) EM-EP-110a.1 28%
Percentage of Scope 1 GHG Emissions 
covered under emissions-limiting regulationsPercentage (%) EM-EP-110a.1 100%
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from ﬂared hydrocarbons Metric tons CO₂-e EM-EP-110a.1 544,678
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from other combustion Metric tons CO₂-e EM-EP-110a.1 523,029
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from process emissions Metric tons CO₂-e EM-EP-110a.1 0
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from other vented emissions Metric tons CO₂-e EM-EP-110a.1 372,216
Nitrogen Oxide (NO) Emissions Metric tons (t) EM-EP-120a.1 7,567
Sulfur Dioxide (SO2) Emissions Metric tons (t) EM-EP-120a.1 103
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) Emissions Metric tons (t) EM-EP-120a.1 185,865
Particulate Matter (PM10) Emissions Metric tons (t) EM-EP-120a.1 26Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from fugitive emissions Metric tons CO₂-e EM-EP-110a.2 10,242Gross Scope 1 GHG Intensity RateMetric tons CO₂-e(t)/
production (MBOE)EM-EP-110a.1 27
WATER MANAGEMENT
BIODIVERSITY IMPACTSTotal fresh water withdrawnThousand Cubic 
Meters (m3)EM-EP-140a.1 5,010
Total fresh water consumedThousand Cubic 
Meters (m3)EM-EP-140a.1 4,183
Percentage of fresh water consumed in regions with 
High or Extremely High Baseline Water StressPercentage (%) EM-EP-140a.1
Voluntary Disclosure36%
Total Volume of Non Fresh Water Withdrawn Thousand Cubic 
Meters (m3)2,741
Total Volume of Recycled Produced WaterThousand Cubic 
Meters (m3)1,484
Volume of produced water and ﬂowback generatedThousand Cubic 
Meters (m3)EM-EP-140a.2Voluntary Disclosure
15,854
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback discharged Percentage (%) EM-EP-140a.2 0%
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback recycled Percentage (%) EM-EP-140a.2 17%
Hydrocarbon content in discharged water Metric tons (t) EM-EP-140a.2 0
Percentage of hydraulically fractured wells for which there
is public disclosure of all fracturing ﬂuid chemicals usedPercentage (%) EM-EP-140a.3
Voluntary Disclosure100%
% Produced Water on Pipe Percentage (%) >90%Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback injected Percentage (%) EM-EP-140a.2 83%Percentage of total fresh water withdrawn in regions with 
High or Extremely High Baseline Water StressPercentage (%) EM-EP-140a.1 34%
Number of hydrocarbon spills to the environment Number EM-EP-160a.2 65
Number of produced water spills to the environment Barrels (bbls) EM-EP-160a.2 49
Aggregate volume of produced water spills
 to the environmentBarrels (bbls) EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.212,494
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills in the Arctic Barrels (bbls) 0
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills impacting 
shorelines with ESI rankings 8-10Barrels (bbls) 0
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon recovered
from the environmentBarrels (bbls) EM-EP-160a.2EM-EP-160a.2
614
Aggregate volume of produced water recovered 
from the environmentBarrels (bbls) EM-EP-160a.2 6,707
WORKFORCE*Total Permanent, Full-Time Employees Number Voluntary Disclosure 337
Women, as a % of Workforce Percentage (%) Voluntary Disclosure 20%
Minorities, as a % of Workforce Percentage (%) Voluntary Disclosure 35%
Percent of Workforce represented by Union Percentage (%) Voluntary Disclosure 0%COMMUNITY RELATIONS Number and duration of non-technical delays Number, Days EM-EP-210b.2 0SECURITY, HUMAN RIGHTS & 
RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS
PEOPLESPercentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves in 
countries that have the 20 lowest rankings in Transparency 
International’s Corruption Perception IndexPercentage (%) EM-EP-510a.1 0%Percentage of proved reserves in or near sites with 
protected conservation status or endangered species habitatPercentage (%) EM-EP-160a.3 0%
Percentage of probable reserves in or near sites with
 protected conservation status or endangered species habitatPercentage (%) EM-EP-140a.3 0%Total Fluids Spill Rate Barrels of total ﬂuids 
spilled/million barrels 
producedVoluntary Disclosure 115Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills 
to the environmentBarrels (bbls) EM-EP-160a.2 773TOPIC DEFINITION UNIT OF MEASURE SASB METRIC 2019
37
RESERVES VALUATION &
CAPITAL EXPENDITURESEstimated carbon dioxide emissions embedded
in proved hydrocarbon reservesMetric tons (t) CO₂-e EM-EP-420a.2 61,238,606
Amount invested in renewable energy, 
revenue generated by renewable energy salesReporting Currency EM-EP-420a3 273,750WORKFORCE HEALTH &
SAFETYTotal recordable incident rate (TRIR)Number of work-related 
injuries and illnesses per 
200,000 workhoursEM-EP-320a.1 0.60
Fatality Rate Rate EM-EP-320a.1 0
Near miss frequency rate (NMFR) Rate EM-EP-320a.1 0.65
Average hours of health, safety, and emergency response 
training for full-time ﬁeld and contract employeesHours (h) EM-EP-320a.1 18
Average hours of health, safety, and emergency response 
training for short-service employeesHours (h) EM-EP-320a.1 37
BUSINESS ETHICS &
TRANSPARENCY
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves 
in or near areas of conﬂictPercentage (%) EM-EP-210a.1 0%
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves
in or near indigenous landPercentage (%) EM-EP-210a.2 0%GREENHOUSE GAS 
EMISSIONS
AIR QUALITYGross Scope 1 GHG Emissions Metric tons CO₂-e(t) EM-EP-110a.1 1,450,165
Gross Scope 1 Methane Emissions 
as a percentage of GHG EmissionsPercentage (%) EM-EP-110a.1 28%
Percentage of Scope 1 GHG Emissions 
covered under emissions-limiting regulationsPercentage (%) EM-EP-110a.1 100%
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from ﬂared hydrocarbons Metric tons CO₂-e EM-EP-110a.1 544,678
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from other combustion Metric tons CO₂-e EM-EP-110a.1 523,029
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from process emissions Metric tons CO₂-e EM-EP-110a.1 0
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from other vented emissions Metric tons CO₂-e EM-EP-110a.1 372,216
Nitrogen Oxide (NO) Emissions Metric tons (t) EM-EP-120a.1 7,567
Sulfur Dioxide (SO2) Emissions Metric tons (t) EM-EP-120a.1 103
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) Emissions Metric tons (t) EM-EP-120a.1 185,865
Particulate Matter (PM10) Emissions Metric tons (t) EM-EP-120a.1 26Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from fugitive emissions Metric tons CO₂-e EM-EP-110a.2 10,242Gross Scope 1 GHG Intensity RateMetric tons CO₂-e(t)/
production (MBOE)EM-EP-110a.1 27
WATER MANAGEMENT
BIODIVERSITY IMPACTSTotal fresh water withdrawnThousand Cubic 
Meters (m3)EM-EP-140a.1 5,010
Total fresh water consumedThousand Cubic 
Meters (m3)EM-EP-140a.1 4,183
Percentage of fresh water consumed in regions with 
High or Extremely High Baseline Water StressPercentage (%) EM-EP-140a.1
Voluntary Disclosure36%
Total Volume of Non Fresh Water Withdrawn Thousand Cubic 
Meters (m3)2,741
Total Volume of Recycled Produced WaterThousand Cubic 
Meters (m3)1,484
Volume of produced water and ﬂowback generatedThousand Cubic 
Meters (m3)EM-EP-140a.2Voluntary Disclosure
15,854
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback discharged Percentage (%) EM-EP-140a.2 0%
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback recycled Percentage (%) EM-EP-140a.2 17%
Hydrocarbon content in discharged water Metric tons (t) EM-EP-140a.2 0
Percentage of hydraulically fractured wells for which there
is public disclosure of all fracturing ﬂuid chemicals usedPercentage (%) EM-EP-140a.3
Voluntary Disclosure100%
% Produced Water on Pipe Percentage (%) >90%Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback injected Percentage (%) EM-EP-140a.2 83%Percentage of total fresh water withdrawn in regions with 
High or Extremely High Baseline Water StressPercentage (%) EM-EP-140a.1 34%
Number of hydrocarbon spills to the environment Number EM-EP-160a.2 65
Number of produced water spills to the environment Barrels (bbls) EM-EP-160a.2 49
Aggregate volume of produced water spills
 to the environmentBarrels (bbls) EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.212,494
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills in the Arctic Barrels (bbls) 0
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills impacting 
shorelines with ESI rankings 8-10Barrels (bbls) 0
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon recovered
from the environmentBarrels (bbls) EM-EP-160a.2EM-EP-160a.2
614
Aggregate volume of produced water recovered 
from the environmentBarrels (bbls) EM-EP-160a.2 6,707
WORKFORCE*Total Permanent, Full-Time Employees Number Voluntary Disclosure 337
Women, as a % of Workforce Percentage (%) Voluntary Disclosure 20%
Minorities, as a % of Workforce Percentage (%) Voluntary Disclosure 35%
Percent of Workforce represented by Union Percentage (%) Voluntary Disclosure 0%COMMUNITY RELATIONS Number and duration of non-technical delays Number, Days EM-EP-210b.2 0SECURITY, HUMAN RIGHTS & 
RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS
PEOPLESPercentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves in 
countries that have the 20 lowest rankings in Transparency 
International’s Corruption Perception IndexPercentage (%) EM-EP-510a.1 0%Percentage of proved reserves in or near sites with 
protected conservation status or endangered species habitatPercentage (%) EM-EP-160a.3 0%
Percentage of probable reserves in or near sites with
 protected conservation status or endangered species habitatPercentage (%) EM-EP-140a.3 0%Total Fluids Spill Rate Barrels of total ﬂuids 
spilled/million barrels 
producedVoluntary Disclosure 115Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills 
to the environmentBarrels (bbls) EM-EP-160a.2 773TOPIC DEFINITION UNIT OF MEASURE SASB METRIC 2019
SASB DISCLOSUREFOREWORD ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE SASB DISCLOSURE
CALLON PETROLEUM  |  2019 Sustainability Report38RESERVES VALUATION &
CAPITAL EXPENDITURESEstimated carbon dioxide emissions embedded
in proved hydrocarbon reservesMetric tons (t) CO₂-e EM-EP-420a.2 61,238,606
Amount invested in renewable energy, 
revenue generated by renewable energy salesReporting Currency EM-EP-420a3 273,750WORKFORCE HEALTH &
SAFETYTotal recordable incident rate (TRIR)Number of work-related 
injuries and illnesses per 
200,000 workhoursEM-EP-320a.1 0.60
Fatality Rate Rate EM-EP-320a.1 0
Near miss frequency rate (NMFR) Rate EM-EP-320a.1 0.65
Average hours of health, safety, and emergency response 
training for full-time ﬁeld and contract employeesHours (h) EM-EP-320a.1 18
Average hours of health, safety, and emergency response 
training for short-service employeesHours (h) EM-EP-320a.1 37
BUSINESS ETHICS &
TRANSPARENCY
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves 
in or near areas of conﬂictPercentage (%) EM-EP-210a.1 0%
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves
in or near indigenous landPercentage (%) EM-EP-210a.2 0%GREENHOUSE GAS 
EMISSIONS
AIR QUALITYGross Scope 1 GHG Emissions Metric tons CO₂-e(t) EM-EP-110a.1 1,450,165
Gross Scope 1 Methane Emissions 
as a percentage of GHG EmissionsPercentage (%) EM-EP-110a.1 28%
Percentage of Scope 1 GHG Emissions 
covered under emissions-limiting regulationsPercentage (%) EM-EP-110a.1 100%
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from ﬂared hydrocarbons Metric tons CO₂-e EM-EP-110a.1 544,678
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from other combustion Metric tons CO₂-e EM-EP-110a.1 523,029
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from process emissions Metric tons CO₂-e EM-EP-110a.1 0
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from other vented emissions Metric tons CO₂-e EM-EP-110a.1 372,216
Nitrogen Oxide (NO) Emissions Metric tons (t) EM-EP-120a.1 7,567
Sulfur Dioxide (SO2) Emissions Metric tons (t) EM-EP-120a.1 103
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) Emissions Metric tons (t) EM-EP-120a.1 185,865
Particulate Matter (PM10) Emissions Metric tons (t) EM-EP-120a.1 26Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from fugitive emissions Metric tons CO₂-e EM-EP-110a.2 10,242Gross Scope 1 GHG Intensity RateMetric tons CO₂-e(t)/
production (MBOE)EM-EP-110a.1 27
WATER MANAGEMENT
BIODIVERSITY IMPACTSTotal fresh water withdrawnThousand Cubic 
Meters (m3)EM-EP-140a.1 5,010
Total fresh water consumedThousand Cubic 
Meters (m3)EM-EP-140a.1 4,183
Percentage of fresh water consumed in regions with 
High or Extremely High Baseline Water StressPercentage (%) EM-EP-140a.1
Voluntary Disclosure36%
Total Volume of Non Fresh Water Withdrawn Thousand Cubic 
Meters (m3)2,741
Total Volume of Recycled Produced WaterThousand Cubic 
Meters (m3)1,484
Volume of produced water and ﬂowback generatedThousand Cubic 
Meters (m3)EM-EP-140a.2Voluntary Disclosure
15,854
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback discharged Percentage (%) EM-EP-140a.2 0%
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback recycled Percentage (%) EM-EP-140a.2 17%
Hydrocarbon content in discharged water Metric tons (t) EM-EP-140a.2 0
Percentage of hydraulically fractured wells for which there
is public disclosure of all fracturing ﬂuid chemicals usedPercentage (%) EM-EP-140a.3
Voluntary Disclosure100%
% Produced Water on Pipe Percentage (%) >90%Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback injected Percentage (%) EM-EP-140a.2 83%Percentage of total fresh water withdrawn in regions with 
High or Extremely High Baseline Water StressPercentage (%) EM-EP-140a.1 34%
Number of hydrocarbon spills to the environment Number EM-EP-160a.2 65
Number of produced water spills to the environment Barrels (bbls) EM-EP-160a.2 49
Aggregate volume of produced water spills
 to the environmentBarrels (bbls) EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.212,494
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills in the Arctic Barrels (bbls) 0
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills impacting 
shorelines with ESI rankings 8-10Barrels (bbls) 0
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon recovered
from the environmentBarrels (bbls) EM-EP-160a.2EM-EP-160a.2
614
Aggregate volume of produced water recovered 
from the environmentBarrels (bbls) EM-EP-160a.2 6,707
WORKFORCE*Total Permanent, Full-Time Employees Number Voluntary Disclosure 337
Women, as a % of Workforce Percentage (%) Voluntary Disclosure 20%
Minorities, as a % of Workforce Percentage (%) Voluntary Disclosure 35%
Percent of Workforce represented by Union Percentage (%) Voluntary Disclosure 0%COMMUNITY RELATIONS Number and duration of non-technical delays Number, Days EM-EP-210b.2 0SECURITY, HUMAN RIGHTS & 
RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS
PEOPLESPercentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves in 
countries that have the 20 lowest rankings in Transparency 
International’s Corruption Perception IndexPercentage (%) EM-EP-510a.1 0%Percentage of proved reserves in or near sites with 
protected conservation status or endangered species habitatPercentage (%) EM-EP-160a.3 0%
Percentage of probable reserves in or near sites with
 protected conservation status or endangered species habitatPercentage (%) EM-EP-140a.3 0%Total Fluids Spill Rate Barrels of total ﬂuids 
spilled/million barrels 
producedVoluntary Disclosure 115Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills 
to the environmentBarrels (bbls) EM-EP-160a.2 773TOPIC DEFINITION UNIT OF MEASURE SASB METRIC 2019
RESERVES VALUATION &
CAPITAL EXPENDITURESEstimated carbon dioxide emissions embedded
in proved hydrocarbon reservesMetric tons (t) CO₂-e EM-EP-420a.2 61,238,606
Amount invested in renewable energy, 
revenue generated by renewable energy salesReporting Currency EM-EP-420a3 273,750WORKFORCE HEALTH &
SAFETYTotal recordable incident rate (TRIR)Number of work-related 
injuries and illnesses per 
200,000 workhoursEM-EP-320a.1 0.60
Fatality Rate Rate EM-EP-320a.1 0
Near miss frequency rate (NMFR) Rate EM-EP-320a.1 0.65
Average hours of health, safety, and emergency response 
training for full-time ﬁeld and contract employeesHours (h) EM-EP-320a.1 18
Average hours of health, safety, and emergency response 
training for short-service employeesHours (h) EM-EP-320a.1 37
BUSINESS ETHICS &
TRANSPARENCY
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves 
in or near areas of conﬂictPercentage (%) EM-EP-210a.1 0%
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves
in or near indigenous landPercentage (%) EM-EP-210a.2 0%GREENHOUSE GAS 
EMISSIONS
AIR QUALITYGross Scope 1 GHG Emissions Metric tons CO₂-e(t) EM-EP-110a.1 1,450,165
Gross Scope 1 Methane Emissions 
as a percentage of GHG EmissionsPercentage (%) EM-EP-110a.1 28%
Percentage of Scope 1 GHG Emissions 
covered under emissions-limiting regulationsPercentage (%) EM-EP-110a.1 100%
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from ﬂared hydrocarbons Metric tons CO₂-e EM-EP-110a.1 544,678
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from other combustion Metric tons CO₂-e EM-EP-110a.1 523,029
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from process emissions Metric tons CO₂-e EM-EP-110a.1 0
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from other vented emissions Metric tons CO₂-e EM-EP-110a.1 372,216
Nitrogen Oxide (NO) Emissions Metric tons (t) EM-EP-120a.1 7,567
Sulfur Dioxide (SO2) Emissions Metric tons (t) EM-EP-120a.1 103
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) Emissions Metric tons (t) EM-EP-120a.1 185,865
Particulate Matter (PM10) Emissions Metric tons (t) EM-EP-120a.1 26Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from fugitive emissions Metric tons CO₂-e EM-EP-110a.2 10,242Gross Scope 1 GHG Intensity RateMetric tons CO₂-e(t)/
production (MBOE)EM-EP-110a.1 27
WATER MANAGEMENT
BIODIVERSITY IMPACTSTotal fresh water withdrawnThousand Cubic 
Meters (m3)EM-EP-140a.1 5,010
Total fresh water consumedThousand Cubic 
Meters (m3)EM-EP-140a.1 4,183
Percentage of fresh water consumed in regions with 
High or Extremely High Baseline Water StressPercentage (%) EM-EP-140a.1
Voluntary Disclosure36%
Total Volume of Non Fresh Water Withdrawn Thousand Cubic 
Meters (m3)2,741
Total Volume of Recycled Produced WaterThousand Cubic 
Meters (m3)1,484
Volume of produced water and ﬂowback generatedThousand Cubic 
Meters (m3)EM-EP-140a.2Voluntary Disclosure
15,854
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback discharged Percentage (%) EM-EP-140a.2 0%
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback recycled Percentage (%) EM-EP-140a.2 17%
Hydrocarbon content in discharged water Metric tons (t) EM-EP-140a.2 0
Percentage of hydraulically fractured wells for which there
is public disclosure of all fracturing ﬂuid chemicals usedPercentage (%) EM-EP-140a.3
Voluntary Disclosure100%
% Produced Water on Pipe Percentage (%) >90%Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback injected Percentage (%) EM-EP-140a.2 83%Percentage of total fresh water withdrawn in regions with 
High or Extremely High Baseline Water StressPercentage (%) EM-EP-140a.1 34%
Number of hydrocarbon spills to the environment Number EM-EP-160a.2 65
Number of produced water spills to the environment Barrels (bbls) EM-EP-160a.2 49
Aggregate volume of produced water spills
 to the environmentBarrels (bbls) EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.212,494
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills in the Arctic Barrels (bbls) 0
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills impacting 
shorelines with ESI rankings 8-10Barrels (bbls) 0
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon recovered
from the environmentBarrels (bbls) EM-EP-160a.2EM-EP-160a.2
614
Aggregate volume of produced water recovered 
from the environmentBarrels (bbls) EM-EP-160a.2 6,707
WORKFORCE*Total Permanent, Full-Time Employees Number Voluntary Disclosure 337
Women, as a % of Workforce Percentage (%) Voluntary Disclosure 20%
Minorities, as a % of Workforce Percentage (%) Voluntary Disclosure 35%
Percent of Workforce represented by Union Percentage (%) Voluntary Disclosure 0%COMMUNITY RELATIONS Number and duration of non-technical delays Number, Days EM-EP-210b.2 0SECURITY, HUMAN RIGHTS & 
RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS
PEOPLESPercentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves in 
countries that have the 20 lowest rankings in Transparency 
International’s Corruption Perception IndexPercentage (%) EM-EP-510a.1 0%Percentage of proved reserves in or near sites with 
protected conservation status or endangered species habitatPercentage (%) EM-EP-160a.3 0%
Percentage of probable reserves in or near sites with
 protected conservation status or endangered species habitatPercentage (%) EM-EP-140a.3 0%Total Fluids Spill Rate Barrels of total ﬂuids 
spilled/million barrels 
producedVoluntary Disclosure 115Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills 
to the environmentBarrels (bbls) EM-EP-160a.2 773TOPIC DEFINITION UNIT OF MEASURE SASB METRIC 2019SASB DISCLOSUREFOREWORD ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE SASB DISCLOSURE
CALLON PETROLEUM  |  2019 Sustainability Report39RESERVES VALUATION &
CAPITAL EXPENDITURESEstimated carbon dioxide emissions embedded
in proved hydrocarbon reservesMetric tons (t) CO₂-e EM-EP-420a.2 61,238,606
Amount invested in renewable energy, 
revenue generated by renewable energy salesReporting Currency EM-EP-420a3 273,750WORKFORCE HEALTH &
SAFETYTotal recordable incident rate (TRIR)Number of work-related 
injuries and illnesses per 
200,000 workhoursEM-EP-320a.1 0.60
Fatality Rate Rate EM-EP-320a.1 0
Near miss frequency rate (NMFR) Rate EM-EP-320a.1 0.65
Average hours of health, safety, and emergency response 
training for full-time ﬁeld and contract employeesHours (h) EM-EP-320a.1 18
Average hours of health, safety, and emergency response 
training for short-service employeesHours (h) EM-EP-320a.1 37
BUSINESS ETHICS &
TRANSPARENCY
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves 
in or near areas of conﬂictPercentage (%) EM-EP-210a.1 0%
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves
in or near indigenous landPercentage (%) EM-EP-210a.2 0%GREENHOUSE GAS 
EMISSIONS
AIR QUALITYGross Scope 1 GHG Emissions Metric tons CO₂-e(t) EM-EP-110a.1 1,450,165
Gross Scope 1 Methane Emissions 
as a percentage of GHG EmissionsPercentage (%) EM-EP-110a.1 28%
Percentage of Scope 1 GHG Emissions 
covered under emissions-limiting regulationsPercentage (%) EM-EP-110a.1 100%
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from ﬂared hydrocarbons Metric tons CO₂-e EM-EP-110a.1 544,678
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from other combustion Metric tons CO₂-e EM-EP-110a.1 523,029
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from process emissions Metric tons CO₂-e EM-EP-110a.1 0
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from other vented emissions Metric tons CO₂-e EM-EP-110a.1 372,216
Nitrogen Oxide (NO) Emissions Metric tons (t) EM-EP-120a.1 7,567
Sulfur Dioxide (SO2) Emissions Metric tons (t) EM-EP-120a.1 103
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) Emissions Metric tons (t) EM-EP-120a.1 185,865
Particulate Matter (PM10) Emissions Metric tons (t) EM-EP-120a.1 26Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from fugitive emissions Metric tons CO₂-e EM-EP-110a.2 10,242Gross Scope 1 GHG Intensity RateMetric tons CO₂-e(t)/
production (MBOE)EM-EP-110a.1 27
WATER MANAGEMENT
BIODIVERSITY IMPACTSTotal fresh water withdrawnThousand Cubic 
Meters (m3)EM-EP-140a.1 5,010
Total fresh water consumedThousand Cubic 
Meters (m3)EM-EP-140a.1 4,183
Percentage of fresh water consumed in regions with 
High or Extremely High Baseline Water StressPercentage (%) EM-EP-140a.1
Voluntary Disclosure36%
Total Volume of Non Fresh Water Withdrawn Thousand Cubic 
Meters (m3)2,741
Total Volume of Recycled Produced WaterThousand Cubic 
Meters (m3)1,484
Volume of produced water and ﬂowback generatedThousand Cubic 
Meters (m3)EM-EP-140a.2Voluntary Disclosure
15,854
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback discharged Percentage (%) EM-EP-140a.2 0%
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback recycled Percentage (%) EM-EP-140a.2 17%
Hydrocarbon content in discharged water Metric tons (t) EM-EP-140a.2 0
Percentage of hydraulically fractured wells for which there
is public disclosure of all fracturing ﬂuid chemicals usedPercentage (%) EM-EP-140a.3
Voluntary Disclosure100%
% Produced Water on Pipe Percentage (%) >90%Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback injected Percentage (%) EM-EP-140a.2 83%Percentage of total fresh water withdrawn in regions with 
High or Extremely High Baseline Water StressPercentage (%) EM-EP-140a.1 34%
Number of hydrocarbon spills to the environment Number EM-EP-160a.2 65
Number of produced water spills to the environment Barrels (bbls) EM-EP-160a.2 49
Aggregate volume of produced water spills
 to the environmentBarrels (bbls) EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.212,494
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills in the Arctic Barrels (bbls) 0
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills impacting 
shorelines with ESI rankings 8-10Barrels (bbls) 0
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon recovered
from the environmentBarrels (bbls) EM-EP-160a.2EM-EP-160a.2
614
Aggregate volume of produced water recovered 
from the environmentBarrels (bbls) EM-EP-160a.2 6,707
WORKFORCE*Total Permanent, Full-Time Employees Number Voluntary Disclosure 337
Women, as a % of Workforce Percentage (%) Voluntary Disclosure 20%
Minorities, as a % of Workforce Percentage (%) Voluntary Disclosure 35%
Percent of Workforce represented by Union Percentage (%) Voluntary Disclosure 0%COMMUNITY RELATIONS Number and duration of non-technical delays Number, Days EM-EP-210b.2 0SECURITY, HUMAN RIGHTS & 
RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS
PEOPLESPercentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves in 
countries that have the 20 lowest rankings in Transparency 
International’s Corruption Perception IndexPercentage (%) EM-EP-510a.1 0%Percentage of proved reserves in or near sites with 
protected conservation status or endangered species habitatPercentage (%) EM-EP-160a.3 0%
Percentage of probable reserves in or near sites with
 protected conservation status or endangered species habitatPercentage (%) EM-EP-140a.3 0%Total Fluids Spill Rate Barrels of total ﬂuids 
spilled/million barrels 
producedVoluntary Disclosure 115Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills 
to the environmentBarrels (bbls) EM-EP-160a.2 773TOPIC DEFINITION UNIT OF MEASURE SASB METRIC 2019
RESERVES VALUATION &
CAPITAL EXPENDITURESEstimated carbon dioxide emissions embedded
in proved hydrocarbon reservesMetric tons (t) CO₂-e EM-EP-420a.2 61,238,606
Amount invested in renewable energy, 
revenue generated by renewable energy salesReporting Currency EM-EP-420a3 273,750WORKFORCE HEALTH &
SAFETYTotal recordable incident rate (TRIR)Number of work-related 
injuries and illnesses per 
200,000 workhoursEM-EP-320a.1 0.60
Fatality Rate Rate EM-EP-320a.1 0
Near miss frequency rate (NMFR) Rate EM-EP-320a.1 0.65
Average hours of health, safety, and emergency response 
training for full-time ﬁeld and contract employeesHours (h) EM-EP-320a.1 18
Average hours of health, safety, and emergency response 
training for short-service employeesHours (h) EM-EP-320a.1 37
BUSINESS ETHICS &
TRANSPARENCY
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves 
in or near areas of conﬂictPercentage (%) EM-EP-210a.1 0%
Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves
in or near indigenous landPercentage (%) EM-EP-210a.2 0%GREENHOUSE GAS 
EMISSIONS
AIR QUALITYGross Scope 1 GHG Emissions Metric tons CO₂-e(t) EM-EP-110a.1 1,450,165
Gross Scope 1 Methane Emissions 
as a percentage of GHG EmissionsPercentage (%) EM-EP-110a.1 28%
Percentage of Scope 1 GHG Emissions 
covered under emissions-limiting regulationsPercentage (%) EM-EP-110a.1 100%
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from ﬂared hydrocarbons Metric tons CO₂-e EM-EP-110a.1 544,678
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from other combustion Metric tons CO₂-e EM-EP-110a.1 523,029
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from process emissions Metric tons CO₂-e EM-EP-110a.1 0
Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from other vented emissions Metric tons CO₂-e EM-EP-110a.1 372,216
Nitrogen Oxide (NO) Emissions Metric tons (t) EM-EP-120a.1 7,567
Sulfur Dioxide (SO2) Emissions Metric tons (t) EM-EP-120a.1 103
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) Emissions Metric tons (t) EM-EP-120a.1 185,865
Particulate Matter (PM10) Emissions Metric tons (t) EM-EP-120a.1 26Gross Scope 1 GHG emissions from fugitive emissions Metric tons CO₂-e EM-EP-110a.2 10,242Gross Scope 1 GHG Intensity RateMetric tons CO₂-e(t)/
production (MBOE)EM-EP-110a.1 27
WATER MANAGEMENT
BIODIVERSITY IMPACTSTotal fresh water withdrawnThousand Cubic 
Meters (m3)EM-EP-140a.1 5,010
Total fresh water consumedThousand Cubic 
Meters (m3)EM-EP-140a.1 4,183
Percentage of fresh water consumed in regions with 
High or Extremely High Baseline Water StressPercentage (%) EM-EP-140a.1
Voluntary Disclosure36%
Total Volume of Non Fresh Water Withdrawn Thousand Cubic 
Meters (m3)2,741
Total Volume of Recycled Produced WaterThousand Cubic 
Meters (m3)1,484
Volume of produced water and ﬂowback generatedThousand Cubic 
Meters (m3)EM-EP-140a.2Voluntary Disclosure
15,854
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback discharged Percentage (%) EM-EP-140a.2 0%
Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback recycled Percentage (%) EM-EP-140a.2 17%
Hydrocarbon content in discharged water Metric tons (t) EM-EP-140a.2 0
Percentage of hydraulically fractured wells for which there
is public disclosure of all fracturing ﬂuid chemicals usedPercentage (%) EM-EP-140a.3
Voluntary Disclosure100%
% Produced Water on Pipe Percentage (%) >90%Percentage of produced water and ﬂowback injected Percentage (%) EM-EP-140a.2 83%Percentage of total fresh water withdrawn in regions with 
High or Extremely High Baseline Water StressPercentage (%) EM-EP-140a.1 34%
Number of hydrocarbon spills to the environment Number EM-EP-160a.2 65
Number of produced water spills to the environment Barrels (bbls) EM-EP-160a.2 49
Aggregate volume of produced water spills
 to the environmentBarrels (bbls) EM-EP-160a.2
EM-EP-160a.212,494
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills in the Arctic Barrels (bbls) 0
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills impacting 
shorelines with ESI rankings 8-10Barrels (bbls) 0
Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon recovered
from the environmentBarrels (bbls) EM-EP-160a.2EM-EP-160a.2
614
Aggregate volume of produced water recovered 
from the environmentBarrels (bbls) EM-EP-160a.2 6,707
WORKFORCE*Total Permanent, Full-Time Employees Number Voluntary Disclosure 337
Women, as a % of Workforce Percentage (%) Voluntary Disclosure 20%
Minorities, as a % of Workforce Percentage (%) Voluntary Disclosure 35%
Percent of Workforce represented by Union Percentage (%) Voluntary Disclosure 0%COMMUNITY RELATIONS Number and duration of non-technical delays Number, Days EM-EP-210b.2 0SECURITY, HUMAN RIGHTS & 
RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS
PEOPLESPercentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves in 
countries that have the 20 lowest rankings in Transparency 
International’s Corruption Perception IndexPercentage (%) EM-EP-510a.1 0%Percentage of proved reserves in or near sites with 
protected conservation status or endangered species habitatPercentage (%) EM-EP-160a.3 0%
Percentage of probable reserves in or near sites with
 protected conservation status or endangered species habitatPercentage (%) EM-EP-140a.3 0%Total Fluids Spill Rate Barrels of total ﬂuids 
spilled/million barrels 
producedVoluntary Disclosure 115Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills 
to the environmentBarrels (bbls) EM-EP-160a.2 773TOPIC DEFINITION UNIT OF MEASURE SASB METRIC 2019
*Workforce statistics reflect Callon’s post-merger full-time, permanent workforce as of January 10, 2020.SASB DISCLOSUREFOREWORD ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE SASB DISCLOSURE
CALLON PETROLEUM  |  2019 Sustainability Report40FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTSFOREWORD ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE
Forward-Looking Statements
CALLON PETROLEUM  |  2019 Sustainability ReportThis report, as well as related statements on our website, 
contains forward-looking statements within the meaning 
of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 
21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-
looking statements include all statements regarding 
projections, future estimates, plans, expectations and 
other forward-looking statements, including information 
about sustainability, environmental, health and safety 
goals, plans policies, programs and initiatives, anticipated 
returns and financial position, and the implementation 
of the Company’s business plans and strategy, as well 
as statements including the words “believe,” “expect,” 
“may,” "will,” "forecast,” “outlook,” “plans” and words of 
similar meaning. These statements reflect the Company’s 
current views with respect to future events and financial 
performance based on management’s experience and 
perception of historical trends, current conditions, 
anticipated future developments and other factors believed to be appropriate. No assurances can be given, 
however, as of this date, that these events will occur or 
that these projections will be achieved, and actual results 
could differ materially from those projected as a result 
of certain factors. Any forward-looking statement speaks 
only as of the date of which such statement is made 
and the Company undertakes no obligation to correct 
or update any forward-looking statement, whether as 
a result of new information, future events or otherwise, 
except as required by applicable law. Some of the factors 
which could affect our future results and could cause 
results to differ materially from those expressed in our 
forward-looking statements include the volatility of 
oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids (“NGLs”) prices 
or a prolonged period of low oil, natural gas or NGLs 
prices and the effects of actions by, or disputes among 
or between significant oil and natural gas producing 
countries, general economic conditions, including the availability of credit and access to existing lines of 
credit; the effects of excess supply of oil and natural gas 
resulting from reduced demand caused by the COVID-19 
pandemic and the actions of certain oil and natural gas 
producing countries; our ability to drill and complete wells; 
operational, regulatory and environment risks; cost and 
availability of equipment and labor; our ability to finance 
our activities; the ultimate timing, outcome and results 
of integrating the operations of Carrizo Oil & Gas, Inc. 
and Callon; and the ability of the combined company to 
realize anticipated synergies and other benefits in the 
timeframe expected or at all; and other risks more fully 
discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission (the “SEC”), including our most recent Annual 
Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q 
and subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, available 
on our website or the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.SASB DISCLOSURE