Nourishing Our Consumers,  
Neighbors, Employees,  
and Our Planet
campbell soup company
2010 Corporate Social Responsibility ReportCampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report2
Table of Contents
Defining Success
Overview   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
A Letter from Our President and CEO   .  .  . .5
Corporate Profile and Economic Impact   . . .8
Management Strategy and Analysis   .  .  .  .  .11
Managing Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Corporate Governance and Ethics   .  .  .  .  .  .23
Stakeholder Engagement   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .27
Nourishing Our Consumers
Overview   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Offering Healthy and  
Nutritious Products   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .33
Ensuring Customer Satisfaction   . . . . . . . . . 36
Food Safety and Quality   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .38
Advancing Social Impact with Our 
Consumers and Our Customers   .  .  .  .  .  .  .40
Recognition   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43Nourishing Our Neighbors
Overview   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
Supporting Volunteerism   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Giving   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .52
Achieving Lasting Social Impact   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .54
Winning in the Community  
(Recognition)   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .60
Nourishing Our Employees
Overview   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
Engagement & Recognition   . . . . . . . . . . . 65
Extraordinary Workplace   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
Diversity and Inclusion   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Safety   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Recognition   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
Nourishing Our Planet
Overview   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87Resource Stewardship in  
Our Operations   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .89
Resource Stewardship in Action   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .93
Inspections and Compliance Record   . . . . . 95
Sustainable Packaging   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97
Sustainable Agriculture   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .100
Supply Chain, Logistics, and  
Transportation   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .103
Recognition   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
Resources
About This Report   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106
2010 CSR Report External Links  
(Resource)   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .108
Global Reporting  
Cross-Reference Index   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110
UN Global Compact Index   . . . . . . . . . . . 118
Independent Review Statement   .  .  .  .  .  .  .120
Selected Awards and Recognitions   . . . . . 122Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report
IN THIS SECTION
Overview
Promoting global wellness 
and nutrition, helping to build a more sustainable environment, and honoring our role in society from the farm to the family 
A Letter from Our 
President and CEO
A perspective from Doug 
Conant, Campbell Soup President and CEOCorporate Profile and 
Economic Impact
Campbell’s organizational 
profile, heritage, and busi-ness units
Management Strategy 
and Analysis
Campbell’s approach to stra-
tegic CSR and sustainability management and integration
Managing Performance
Integrated CSR Performance Management, Performance Scorecard, and Destination GoalsCorporate Governance 
and Ethics
Our approach to 
Governance, Public Policy, and Winning With Integrity
Stakeholder 
Engagement
Listening to, working 
with, and participating in the strategic stakeholder engagement processWelcome to Campbell’s 2010 Corporate 
Social Responsibility Report — another step in a conversation that spans 140 years involving our employees, business partners, customers, and consumers — a conversation about Campbell’s role in society.Defining Success
•	Defined	2020	Destination	Goals	for	CSR	
•	Integrated	CSR	and	sustainability	into	  
performance management programs
•	Published	Human	Rights,	Environmental	
Sustainability, and Political Accountability policies
•	Evolved	Campbell’s	Success	Model	to	incorporate	
our role in society
•	Were	named	to	the	Dow	Jones	Sustainability	
indexes and Corporate Responsibility Magazine’s 
100 Best Corporate Citizens ListOvER THE PAST yEAR, WE ...Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report4DEfINING SuCCESS
Overview
Promoting global wellness and nutrition, helping to build a more sustainable environment, 
and honoring our role in society from the farm to the family 
This report is the product of an ongoing conversation that began 140 years ago, when our company’s founders first started can-
ning	quality	vegetables	and	soups	from	a	small	warehouse	in	Camden,	New	Jersey.	It	is	a	conversation	among	our	employees,	
customers, consumers, and everyone else connected with Campbell Soup Company and our family of brands, about the role of 
a food and beverage company in our society — its impact, contributions, and obligations .
Current trends in corporate social responsibility (CSR) generally focus on accountability, transparency, and engagement . For 
companies in the food and beverage sector, however, there are a number of additional dynamics . Some issues unique to our 
sector include sustainable agriculture, responsible sourcing, promotion of human health and sound nutrition, and responsive-
ness to consumers’ ever-changing expectations of the foods they choose for themselves and their families . At Campbell, we 
strive to address each of these issues .
We recognize and respect the fact that “CSR” and “sustainability” mean different things to different people . First, here is some 
context on how we view these terms .
At the most basic level, CSR and sustainability at Campbell Soup Company mean advancing global wellness and nutrition, 
helping to build a more sustainable environment, and honoring our role in society from the farm to the family  . More broadly, 
we consider CSR and sustainability as approaches to the conduct of business that build employee engagement, create positive 
social impacts, enable operational efficiency, reduce costs, foster innovation, strengthen our relationships with our customers 
and consumers, and ultimately create business advantage over the long term .
We firmly believe that a company should be judged not just on its financial performance but on its commitment to CSR and 
sustainability  . We are confident that our consumers, customers, employees, and investors feel the same . We also believe that 
the importance of this commitment will increase as the 21st century progresses . 
We invite you to join our conversation today, and look forward to your participation for many years to come .Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report5
A Letter from Our President and CEO
Welcome to Campbell’s 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report. We are 
delighted to have this opportunity to share with you the state of our progress, and the  evolution of our thinking, in a journey of critical importance.
Dear Campbell Stakeholders:
For Campbell, conducting business in a socially responsible manner is mission-critical .
Through our Campbell Mission, we have committed ourselves to building “the world’s most extraordinary food company by 
nourishing people’s lives everywhere, every day  .” We recognize that achieving this mission depends on our ability to win, with 
the utmost integrity, in three arenas: the workplace, the marketplace, and the community  .
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) plays a central role in each . We win in the workplace by valuing and engaging our 
employees . We win in the marketplace by meeting the needs of our consumers and customers better, faster, more completely, 
and more uniquely than anyone else . And we win in the community by building on our long tradition of responsible citizen -
ship, particularly in the areas of community service and environmental sustainability  . In all three arenas, a vibrant CSR program 
inspires greater support of our company agenda while guiding that agenda in a caring, thoughtful, and socially responsible way  .
We firmly believe that, as we build a better company, we can also build a better world . Therefore, as outlined in our corporate 
strategies, we seek to “advance a powerful commitment to sustainability and corporate social responsibility” in everything  
we do .
In our first formal CSR report, published in 2008, we outlined four focus areas:
•	Our	relationships	with	our	customers	and	consumers	
•	Environmental	sustainability	
•	Our	commitment	to	building	an	extraordinary	workplace	and	
•	Contributing	to	our	communities
We reaffirmed our intent to keep building on our long track record of social responsibility  . We committed ourselves to expand 
our CSR reporting over time, by providing our stakeholders with increasing detail and transparency about our aspirations, goals, 
and achievements .
DEfINING SuCCESSCampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report6DEfINING SuCCESS
Since then, we have made significant progress:
•	We	recruited	a	Vice	President	of	Corporate	Social	Responsibility,	charged	with	working	across	the	company	to	build	a	  
comprehensive CSR strategy  .
•	We	built	an	enterprise-wide	CSR	Leadership	Network,	comprised	of	business	leaders	and	content	experts	to	clarify	our	
priorities, define and drive key programs, identify appropriate metrics and targets, and develop effective integration and 
communication strategies .
•	We	strengthened	our	bonds	with	our	consumers	and,	as	a	result,	launched	new	products,	such	as	 Campbell’s Select Harvest, 
a line of soups designed by women for women .
•	We	introduced	 Nourishing Our Neighbors, an enhanced community service program that brings together all of Campbell’s 
community activities, including the Campbell Soup Foundation and others, under one umbrella .
•	We	announced	a	five-year,	$10	million	charitable	commitment	to	our	hometown	of	Camden,	New	Jersey.	
•	We	relaunched	Campbell’s	 Labels for Education to focus this school-support program specifically on art, academics, and 
athletics .
•	We	eliminated	millions	of	pounds	of	packaging,	optimized	shipping	routes,	and	advanced	energy-saving	capital	projects	that	
have reduced waste and greenhouse gas emissions while saving water, energy, and money  .
•	We	achieved	world-class	employee	engagement,	while	continually	enhancing	our	culture	of	diversity	and	inclusion.
Most importantly, we undertook a thoughtful effort to create a clear and focused vision for all of our CSR efforts . There are many 
global issues that affect our business and our society, including health and nutrition, education, resource stewardship, climate 
change, alleviation of poverty, equality of opportunity, human rights, and others . In such a complex world, no company can be 
all things to all people . If we wish to have a meaningful impact, we must focus on those issues most closely aligned with our 
unique combination of skills, knowledge, and capabilities .
During the past year, I challenged Campbell’s CSR Leadership Network to define long-term “destination” goals that will clarify 
our purpose, promote strategic alignment across our organization, and deliver measurable benefits . The result — Campbell’s 
Corporate Imperative CSR 2020 Agenda — defines “success” for Campbell in corporate social responsibility and sustainability 
over the next decade . The agenda includes four destination goals:
1. Nourishing Our Consumers  — Continually advance the nutrition and wellness profile of our product portfolio .
2. Nourishing Our Neighbors  — Measurably improve the health of young people in our hometown communities by reducing 
hunger and childhood obesity by 50% . 
3. Nourishing Our Employees  — Achieve 100% employee engagement in CSR and sustainability  .
4. Nourishing Our Planet  — Cut the environmental footprint of our product portfolio in half, as measured by water use and 
CO2 emissions per product produced .Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report7DEfINING SuCCESS
These goals are not isolated platforms . They are a framework for making better business decisions — for advancing nutrition 
and wellness in all of the countries in which we do business, for engaging our employees, for supporting the health of our 
planet, and for strengthening the communities where we live and work . We will regularly review these goals and their many  
supporting strategies, programs and targets, and make adjustments as needed .
In adopting Campbell’s Corporate Imperative CSR 2020 Agenda, we are leveraging our company’s heritage, mission, and core 
competencies to define our opportunities and our signature in our society  . We are building on a solid foundation . Our product 
portfolio is well-positioned to provide affordable choices to consumers that support superior vegetable nutrition, healthy weight 
management, and sensible snacking . We are highly active in our hometown communities around the world . Our employee 
value proposition is resonating with our people and driving stronger employee engagement . And our expanding work in the 
area of environmental stewardship is contributing directly to our bottom line while supporting the expectations of our customers 
and consumers .
Most importantly, we are harnessing the expertise, enthusiasm, and dedication of our people to reach beyond sales and profits 
and make our world a better place to live . I can tell you that our people have responded to our heightened focus on CSR with 
a passion that energizes me . I am proud to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with them in this important venture . Together, we will 
deliver on our CSR destination goals and thereby take another step toward achieving our mission: building the world’s most 
extraordinary food company  . 
Thank you for reviewing Campbell’s 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report . 
Douglas R. Conant 
President and CEO Campbell Soup Company
Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report8DEfINING SuCCESS
Corporate Profile and Economic Impact
Today, Campbell Soup Company is the world’s leading soup maker and a global 
manufacturer of high-quality, branded foods. Our $8 billion portfolio is highly focused in three core areas: simple meals, baked snacks, and healthy beverages.
Joseph	Campbell,	a	fruit	merchant,	and	Abraham	Anderson,	an	icebox	manufacturer,	created	the	firm	of	Anderson	&	Campbell	
in 1869, and began producing tomatoes, vegetables, jellies, soups, condiments, and minced meats . Nearly 30 years later, Dr  . 
John	T.	Dorrance,	an	organic	chemist	educated	at	the	Massachusetts	Institute	of	Technology,	joined	the	company,	and	devel -
oped a process for making commercially condensed soups . The soups became so popular that in 1922, the company changed 
its name to Campbell Soup Company  .
Today, Campbell Soup Company is the world’s leading soup maker and a global manufacturer of high-quality, branded foods . 
Our	$8	billion	portfolio	is	highly	focused	in	three	core	areas:	simple	meals,	baked	snacks,	and	healthy	beverages.	Our	product	
portfolio features many market-leading brands, such as Campbell’s soups, Swanson broths, Liebig and Erasco soups in Europe, 
Pepperidge Farm cookies, crackers, bakery, and frozen products in North America, Arnott’s biscuits in Australia and Asia Pacific, and V8
 beverages . Other brands of note include Pace and Prego sauces and Wolfgang Puck  soups, stocks, and broths . 
Headquartered	in	Camden,	New	Jersey,	Campbell	employs	approximately	18,000	people	in	more	than	20	countries.	Our	  
products are sold in some 120 countries but, our principal geographies are the United States, Canada, Australia, France, 
Germany, and Belgium .
The company’s operations are organized and reported in the following segments: U .S . Soup, Sauces, and Beverages; Baking 
and Snacking; International Soup, Sauces and Beverages; and North America Foodservice . 
u.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages
The U .S . Soup, Sauces, and Beverages segment includes the following retail businesses: Campbell’s condensed and ready-to-
serve soups; Swanson broth, stocks, and canned poultry; Prego Italian sauce; Pace Mexican sauce; Campbell’s canned pasta, gravies, and beans; V8 juice and juice drinks; Campbell’s tomato juice; and Wolfgang Puck
 soups, stocks, and broths .
Baking and Snacking
The Baking and Snacking segment includes Pepperidge Farm  cookies, crackers, bakery, and frozen products in the U .S . and 
Arnott’s  biscuits in Australia and Asia Pacific .
International Soup, Sauces and Beverages
The International Soup, Sauces, and Beverages segment includes the soup, sauce, and beverage businesses outside of the United States, including Europe, Latin America, the Asia Pacific region and the emerging markets of Russia and China, and the 
retail business in Canada . The segment’s operations include Erasco and Heisse Tasse soups in Germany, Liebig and Royco soups 
in France, Devos Lemmens mayonnaise and cold sauces and Campbell’s and Royco soups in Belgium, and Blå Band soups and 
sauces in Sweden . In Asia Pacific, operations include Campbell’s soup and stock, Swanson broths, V8 beverages and Prego 
pasta sauces . In Canada, operations include Habitant and Campbell’s soups, Prego pasta sauce, V8 beverages, and certain 
Pepperidge Farm products .
North America foodservice
The North America Foodservice segment includes the company’s away-from-home operations, which represents the distribution of products such as soup, specialty entrees, beverage products, other prepared foods, and Pepperidge Farm products through 
various food-service channels in the United States and Canada .Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report9DEfINING SuCCESS
Campbell Soup Company 
Corporate Headquarters
Camden,	NJ	  
(Administrative)
Employees: 2,000
Pepperidge farm 
 Corporate Headquarters
Norwalk, CT  
(Administrative)Employees: 1,120united States  
Bentonville, AR (Sales)
Employees: 30 
Dixon, CA (SSB) 
Employees: 240
Sacramento, CA  
(SSB/NAFS) Employees: 910
Stockton, CA (SSB) 
Employees: 240
Bloomfield, CT (BS) 
Employees: 300
Coral Gables, FL (Sales)
Employees: 30
Lakeland, FL (BS) 
Employees: 310
Downers Grove, IL (BS) 
Employees: 360Marshall, MI (SSB) Employees: 120
East	Brunswick,	NJ	(BS)  
Employees: 100 
South	Plainfield,	NJ	(SSB)  
Employees: 30
Maxton, NC (SSB/NAFS) 
Employees: 830
Cincinnati, OH (Sales) 
Employees: 30
Napoleon, OH  
(SSB/NAFS) Employees: 1,590 
Wauseon, OH (SSB/ISSB) 
Employees: 30
Willard, OH (BS) 
Employees: 620Denver, PA (BS) Employees: 820
Downingtown, PA  
(BS/NAFS) Employees: 370
Aiken, SC (BS) 
Employees: 120
Paris, TX (SSB/NAFS)  
Employees: 950
Richmond, UT (BS) 
Employees: 450
Everett, WA (NAFS) 
Employees: 300
Milwaukee, WI (SSB) 
Employees: 40SSB = U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages   BS = Baking and Snacking   ISSB = International Soup, Sauces and Beverages   NAFS = North America FoodserviceWhere We Operate — Countries and facilities
Employment levels at the end of  
FY2009, Rounded.Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report10DEfINING SuCCESS/ Where We Operate — Countries and Facilities
Australia 
Glen Iris (Sales) Employees: 150 
Huntingwood (BS)
Employees: 600
Marleston (BS) 
Employees: 420
North Strathfield 
(Administrative) Employees: 340
Shepparton (ISSB) 
Employees: 220
Virginia (BS) 
Employees: 840Belgium 
Puurs (Administrative/ISSB) Employees: 570
Canada 
Toronto  (Administrative/ISSB/NAFS) Employees: 750
China
Hong Kong   (Administrative/Sales) Employees: 20 
Shanghai 
(Administrative/Sales) Employees: 30 france  
Le Pontet (ISSB) 
Employees: 320
Paris (Administrative) 
Employees: 70
Germany 
Luebeck (ISSB) Employees: 470
Indonesia 
Jawa	Barat	(BS)  
Employees: 930Malaysia
Selangor Darul Ehsan (Administrative/ISSB) Employees: 300Mexico Guasave (SSB) Employees: 20
Mexico City (Administrative) 
Employees: 50
Villagran (ISSB) 
Employees: 240
Netherlands 
Utrecht (ISSB) Employees: 90
Russia
Moscow (Administrative) Employees: 50
Sweden 
Kristianstadt (ISSB) Employees: 155Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report11DEfINING SuCCESS
Management Strategy and Analysis
Our Mission: 
Together we will build the world’s most extraordinary food company by nourishing people’s lives everywhere, every day.
Campbell’s mission statement clearly expresses our company’s purpose . It inspires us not only to produce high-quality whole -
some products that are trusted the world over, but also to make a positive difference in the world we live in, for the stakeholders 
with whom we interact every day  . Campbell’s Success Model, core business strategies, and balanced scorecard expressly incor -
porate and reinforce our commitment to corporate social responsibility and sustainability  . 
Our Success Model defines the way that we pursue our mission:
Winning in the Workplace — Placing the right people in the right positions, and creat-
ing a high-performance culture with world-class levels of employee engagement . 
Winning in the Marketplace — Delivering above-average total shareholder returns by 
meeting the needs of our consumers and customers better, faster, more completely and 
more uniquely than anyone else .
Winning in the Community — Building on Campbell’s long tradition of responsible corporate citizenship, particularly in the areas of community service and environmental 
sustainability  .
Winning with Integrity — Conducting our business in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, and in accordance with the highest standards of honesty, fairness 
and ethical business conduct . 
Defining CSR and Sustainability Strategy
Every year we conduct a formal strategic planning process in which we reassess and refine our core business strategies . Since 
2008, advancing a powerful commitment to sustainability and corporate social responsibility has been expressly identified as 
one of Campbell’s seven core business strategies . 
 
 
Our Seven Core 
StrategiesGrow our icon brands within simple meals, baked snacks and healthy beverages
Deliver higher levels of consumer satisfaction through superior innovation focused 
on wellness while providing good value, quality and convenience
Make our products more broadly available and relevant in existing and new markets, 
consumer segments and eating occasions
Strengthen our business through outside partnerships and acquisitionsIncrease margins by improving price realization and company-wide total cost man-
agement 
Improve overall organizational excellence, diversity and engagementAdvance a powerful commitment to sustainability and corporate social responsibility7.1
2 
3 4
5 
6
7Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report12DEfINING SuCCESS
Our strategic planning process begins with a broad situation assessment . As part of this first step, we examine the key internal 
and external drivers of our CSR and sustainability strategy, including key trends in the area of sustainability and the evolving 
expectations of our stakeholders with respect to responsible corporate citizenship . 
Our strategic plan for CSR and sustainability rests on four key pillars: environmental stewardship (Nourishing Our Planet); our 
interactions with customers and consumers (Nourishing Our Consumers); community service (Nourishing Our Neighbors); and 
building an extraordinary workplace (Nourishing Our Employees) . As part of our annual situation assessment, we review our 
performance in each of these areas, and external trends and drivers in the marketplace and among our stakeholders, through a 
multifaceted lens that is depicted graphically below  . In conjunction with our materiality assessment, we analyze our strengths, 
weaknesses, opportunities, and threats to help us fine-tune our goals, strategies, and operational priorities in each of our four 
primary CSR platforms . 
In 2009, we set the groundwork for Campbell’s first formal CSR strategy, identifying several characteristics that are important to 
long-term success . They included, for example, a shared perspective on CSR across the company, definition of core metrics and 
long-term performance goals, and the recognition that our business executives and employees require specific resources and 
tools to activate our strategy  . We declared that our strategy should provide for active stakeholder engagement; that our prac -
tices, performance, and results should be transparent; and most important, that our efforts should be shaped by a focus that is 
unique to Campbell Soup Company and the impact we can have .Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report13DEfINING SuCCESS
Materiality Analysis
At Campbell, we examine the key internal and external drivers of our CSR and sustainability strategy, including key trends and 
the evolving expectations of our stakeholders with respect to responsible corporate citizenship . 
Defining materiality is an important component of an effective CSR and sustainability strategy  . As a global food and beverage 
company, it is critical that we monitor and manage the myriad of business and societal issues in an effective and transparent 
manner  . There are many areas in which Campbell’s long-term business success aligns with important marketplace and stake -
holder priorities, including sustainable agriculture, responsible sourcing, promotion of human health and sound, yet affordable 
nutrition . We believe that carefully considering these areas of alignment can lead to a more informed CSR strategy and help 
drive both positive social impact and long-term business success .
IDENTIfy
Identify Issues from a wide range of stakeholders and sources
Primary Sources
• Customers
• Consumer Research• Employees• Scientific and Industry Research• Benchmarking• Investors• Public Policy• Community Partners• Suppliers• Service Providers• NGOs and Issue Advocates• Regulatory Agencies• Media Outlets• Emerging-Issues Monitoring• Key-Cause Partners• National Advertising Division, Federal 
Trade Commission
• Factory Managers• Brand Partners• Trade Groups• Professional Organizations• Shareholder Advocates• Innovation Partners and Portals
Issues
• Wellness, Nutrition
• Market Performance• Food Safety• Quality• Ingredients• Sustainable Agriculture• Weight Management• Packaging• Water Use• Waste Management• Advertising• Enterprise Risk Management• Energy/Climate• Hunger Relief• Transparency• Cause Marketing• Transportation Infrastructure• Employee Safety• Ethics, Corporate Governance• Labor Relations• Employee Engagement• Training and Development• Diversity• Education• Camden Community Investment• Plant Communities• Human Rights• Executive Pay• Political Contributions• International Trade• Business ContinuityCampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report14DEfINING SuCCESS
fILTER
Filter issues against key strategic drivers and stakeholder interests and concerns
• Destination Goals and Metrics
• Campbell Mission and 7 Strategies
• CSR Focus Areas• Campbell Success Model• Customer and Consumer Trends• Regulatory Frameworks• Impact to Community• Total Delivered Cost• Brand Reputation• Employee Recruitment and Engagement• Strategic and Operating Plans
PRIORITIzE
Prioritize focus areas by importance to Campbell long-term business interests and  
those most important to our key stakeholders
Stakeholder Relations & Community
Community 
• Key Cause Campaigns
• NGO Relationships
Stakeholder Relations
• Political Influence
•  Community and Investor Outreach
Community• Youth Programs• EducationCommunity 
• Citizenship in Plant and   
Office CommunitiesImportance to Campbell Stakeholders
Importance to Campbell’s BusinessCampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report15DEfINING SuCCESS
Workplace
Workplace
• Board Governance
• Executive CompensationWorkplace • Culture, Engagement, Ethics
Workplace 
• Managing CSR and Sustainability• Training and Development• Benefits and Compensation• Diversity and InclusionImportance to Campbell Stakeholders
Marketplace & Health and Wellness
Marketplace
• Advertising and Labeling
• Nutrition Information• Responsible Sourcing
Health and Wellness
• Consumer Education• Disease Prevention
Marketplace
• Supply Chain Performance• Supply Chain StandardsMarketplace• Total Shareowner Return
Health and Wellness
• Nutrition, Weight Management• Food Safety and Quality• Research and Development
Marketplace 
• Consumer and Customer Priorities• Product and Market GrowthImportance to Campbell StakeholdersImportance to Campbell’s Business
Importance to Campbell’s BusinessPRIORITIzE
Prioritize focus areas by importance to Campbell long-term business interests and  
those most important to our key stakeholdersCampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report16DEfINING SuCCESS
Environmental Performance & Supply Chain 
Environmental Performance 
• RecyclingEnvironmental Performance 
• Resource Stewardship
• Packaging and Design
Supply Chain 
• Sourcing
• Transportation and LogisticsImportance to Campbell Stakeholders
Importance to Campbell’s BusinessPRIORITIzE
Prioritize focus areas by importance to Campbell long-term business interests and  
those most important to our key stakeholders
REvIEW
Integrate into business planning and External Stakeholder Relationships
Internal Review External Review
• Strategic and Annual Operating Plans
• Board and Governance Updates• CSR Leadership Network• Emerging Issues Management• Feedback to CSR Report• Customer, Consumer, and Supplier Input• Investor, NGO, Stakeholder Engagement• External Research, Regulations, Trade GroupsCampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report17DEfINING SuCCESS
CSR and Sustainability Governance
One of the most important characteristics of a successful CSR strategy is an effective governance structure, with the resources 
and authority to make efficient decisions, establish accountabilities, and drive execution .
We have created a CSR Leadership Network at Campbell that consists of five leadership teams . Each team has a formal charter, 
mission statement, and agreed indicators of success . Four of the teams are focused on our key content areas, including envi -
ronmental sustainability, community service, building an extraordinary workplace, and delivering on the promises of our brands 
to our customers and consumers . These teams meet regularly to define strategy and review performance . The fifth team is our 
CSR Steering Committee, led by the CEO, which is composed of senior executives of the company’s largest businesses and 
corporate functions, including Finance, Human Resources, Supply Chain, Legal, Research & Development, Public Affairs, and 
Information Technology  . The Steering Committee regularly reviews progress updates from the four strategy teams . Periodic 
updates on the company’s CSR and sustainability strategy are also provided to the Board of Directors .
CAMPBELL SOuP BOARD Of DIRECTORS
Steering Committee Campbell Corporate Leadership Team
Customer/Consumer Environment Community Workplace
• Research and Development
• Consumer Insights
• Consumer Affairs
• Cause Marketing
• P&L Business Leads
• Sales and Marketing
• Sector and Stakeholder 
Engagement
• International • Research and Development
• Procurement
• Agriculture
• Packaging
• Global Operations
• Plant Management
• Supply Chain
• Logistics
• Brands• Public Affairs
• Campbell Soup Foundation
• Procurement 
• Volunteerism
• Cause Marketing
• Citizenship
• Donations
• Plants and Facilities
• Information Technology• Human Resources
• Communications
• Compensation and Benefits
• Organizational Effectiveness
• Talent Acquisition and  
Management
• Diversity and Inclusion 
• International Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report18DEfINING SuCCESS
Driving Innovation
At Campbell, we have adopted a broad definition of Innovation and a set of Innovation principles . We strive to integrate our 
CSR and Sustainability efforts into our innovation process .  
Definition of Innovation
•	The	creation	or	adoption	of	new	products,	services,	systems	or	processes
•	That	results	in	leverageable	and	sustainable	competitive	advantage,	or	eliminates	competitive	disadvantage
•	Thereby	enhancing	the	value	of	the	company
Innovation Principles
1. Every employee in every role is expected to have an innovation mindset to improve our new products, services, systems and 
processes
2. We set aspirational objectives, aligned with our Mission and strategies, to drive our innovation agenda
3. We identify, prioritize and resource the innovation initiatives that we judge most likely to ensure we reach our desired 
destinations
4. We ensure that all innovation initiatives adhere to disciplined innovation principles and processes
We leverage our innovation mindset and principles across our company by establishing CSR and Sustainability goals and  
initiatives under our each of the four key pillars of our CSR strategy  . Proposed concepts for innovation that we receive through 
our employee innovation portal (Campbell’s ideaNET) and our external innovation portal (Ideas for Innovation) are assessed in 
light of our seven core business strategies and CSR goals . We use a similar lens when judging candidates for Campbell’s most 
prestigious recognition, our Extraordinary Performance Awards .Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report19DEfINING SuCCESS
Managing Performance
CSR and sustainability metrics are integrated in categories across Campbell’s balanced 
scorecard. They range from specific steps in strategy development to individual  reporting milestones.
Campbell employs a “balanced scorecard” to define annual objectives and measure the performance of the company as a 
whole and the individual business units . Goals defined in the scorecard fall within four key measurement areas relating respec -
tively to the company’s financial, strategic, operational, and marketplace objectives . Through our balanced scorecard, we assess 
not only whether we achieve our objectives, but also how we achieve them .
CSR and sustainability metrics are included in categories across Campbell’s balanced scorecard: the primary tool used to 
determine annual incentive compensation for executives, managers, and professionals . Objectives range from specific steps in 
strategy development to individual reporting milestones, such as establishment of agreed-upon metrics, expansion of commu-
nity service programs, workplace diversity and inclusion, and supplier diversity and safety  . Some examples of CSR objectives in 
the balanced scorecard for the current year include the following:
•	Defining	and	communicating	long-term	CSR	Destination	Goals
•	Proposing	initial	environmental	targets
•	Defining	baseline	metrics	in	packaging	and	agriculture	
•	Defining	goals	for	supplier	diversity	
•	Improving	hiring,	promotion,	and	retention	rates	for	women
•	Improving	Campbell’s	global	safety	performance
•	Maintaining	and	improving	our	world-class	levels	of	employee	engagement
•	Driving	alignment	with	supplier	sustainability	strategies	adopted	by	Campbell	customers	
•	Establishing	and	integrating	the	 Nourishing Our Neighbors platform
•	Publishing	our	second	formal	CSR	Report
•	Expanding	our	engagement	with	socially	responsible	investorsCampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report20DEfINING SuCCESS / Performance Scorecard
ECONOMIC ($	millions) 2007 2008 2009
Net Sales 7,385 7,998 7,586
Earnings Before Interest and Taxes 1,243 1,098 1,185
Taxes on Earnings 307 268 347
Dividends Paid 308 329 350
Capital Expenditures 334 298 345
Research and Development 111 115 114
Nutrition and Wellness** Product Portfolio (revenue) 1,291 1,720 2,029
Nutrition and Wellness Revenue / Total Revenue 16 .4 21 .5 26.8
ENvIRONMENTAL
Water Use (Gross 000 gal .) 7,829,355 7,050,749
Water Use Cu . Meter / Tonne of Food Produced 10 .33 9.35
Energy Use (mmbtu) 10,239,864 10,276,947
Energy Use (mmbtu) / Tonne of Food Produced 3 .57 3.60
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions (mmtCO 2) 899,537 879,084
GHG Emissions (mmtco 2) / Tonne of Food Produced 0 .313 0.308
Solid Waste Recycled (%) 64* 84.5
Waste Disposed (tonne) / Tonne of Food Produced 0 .023* 0.019
Capital Investment in Environmental Compliance & Sustainability 12 .3 15.1
SOCIAL
Employee Engagement Ratio 9:1 12:1 23:1
Supplier	Diversity	Spends	($	millions) 129 136 140
Recordable Case Rate 4 .30 3 .10 2.76
Lost Day Case Rate 0 .61 0 .46 0.33
Women in Global Workforce (%) 44
Women in Global Leadership Positions (%) 33
Charitable	Giving	including	In	Kind	($	millions)	 32.6
Food	or	In	Kind	Donations	($	millions)	 13 .2 18 .4 21.5
Tuition	Assistance	Paid	($	millions) 1.4
Healthcare	Expense	U.S.	($	millions) 98 .4 102 .3 100.6
Pension	and	Post-Retirement	Medical	Expense	U.S.	($	millions) 57 54 53
Savings	Plan	Contributions	($	millions) 17 18 18
 *  Waste Disposed and Recycled % for 2008 is result for U.S. only. Subsequent numbers represent global operations. 
 **  Includes end of FY revenue from Organic, Full Vegetable Serving, Low Calorie, Low Fat, Heart Healthy Sodium and Whole Grain products.Performance Scorecard
We continue to strengthen our baselines and key metric set and will continue to report progress year over year  .Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report21DEfINING SuCCESS
Destination Goals
Campbell’s Corporate Imperative CSR 2020 Agenda is aligned with our company’s mission . It is anchored in our core competen -
cies, fueled by our employees’ innovation, and driven by four key destination goals:
We are embarking on a long-term journey that will leverage Campbell’s unique role in society and both the challenges and 
opportunities of environmental sustainability — not as standalone functions, but as a framework to make better business deci -
sions, continually advance nutrition and wellness, engage our employees, and strengthen the communities we live and work in . 
We will review these goals, and their many supporting strategies and targets, regularly and make adjustments as needed . 
NOuRISH OuR PLANET
Cut the Environmental Footprint of  
Our Product Portfolio in Half
Achieve 100% Employee Engagement 
in CSR and SustainabilityNOURISH OUR WORKFORCE
Continually Advance the Nutrition and 
Wellness Profile of Our Product PortfolioNOuRISH OuR CONSuMERS
 NOuRISH OuR NEIGHBORS
Measurably Improve the Health of Young 
People in Our Hometown CommunitiesCampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report22DEfINING SuCCESS
CSR Corporate Imperative 2020 Destination Goals
• Nourishing Our Consumers — Continually advance the nutrition and wellness profile of our product portfolio .
• Nourishing Our Neighbors — Measurably improve the health of young people in our hometown communities by reducing 
hunger and childhood obesity by 50% .
 Supporting Goals 
– Make a positive impact in the lives of 100 million youth through our volunteer, community, and signature programs .
• Nourishing Our Employees — Achieve 100% employee engagement in our CSR and sustainability strategies .
• Nourishing Our Planet — Cut the environmental footprint of our product portfolio in half as measured by water use and  
CO 2 emissions per tonne of product produced .
 Supporting Goals
 –  Reduce energy use by 35% per tonne of product produced and source 40% of the energy used by the company from 
renewable or alternative energy sources .
 –  Recycle 95% of waste generated on a global basis .
 –  Deliver 75% of global packaging from sustainable materials (renewable, recyclable, or from recycled content) .
 –  Obtain 50% of company revenue from products utilizing packaging with an improved environmental footprint (material 
reduction and/or substitution and supply chain efficiencies) .
 –  Reduce water use by 20% and energy use by 30% per tonne in our top five agricultural ingredients .Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report23DEfINING SuCCESS
Corporate Governance and Ethics
Campbell is committed to winning in the marketplace and in the workplace in compliance 
with the law and the highest ethical standards. Our company has a long history of excellence in corporate governance.
Campbell’s expectation of ethical behavior by every employee is rooted in our respect for the reputation of our great company 
and our convictions about the way we must conduct our business on a daily basis . Our multifaceted Winning With Integrity 
program provides the systems and tools to help our employees win in the right way, honor Campbell’s distinguished heritage, 
and secure its future . All Campbell associates share the responsibility to make certain that our pledge to win with integrity in the 
marketplace, the workplace, and the community is fulfilled every day, in every decision they make and every action they take . 
Campbell’s longstanding commitment to excellence in corporate governance is reflected in our Corporate Governance 
Standards, which are re-evaluated annually, and in the Board’s painstaking governance process . Our Board has long been led by 
an independent, nonexecutive chairman . Systematic procedures for evaluating the effectiveness of the Board and Board com -
mittees have been in place for many years .
Corporate Governance — Board of Directors
Campbell’s commitment to responsible corporate citizenship and the sustainable, long-term growth of our business begins with 
our Board of Directors . The Board consists of 14 independent members, one former company executive, and one current com -
pany executive, President and CEO Doug Conant . Board operations, including approval of agendas and information provided 
to directors, are managed by an independent, nonexecutive chairman . 
Our Board believes that diversity in the backgrounds and perspectives of our directors contributes to sound corporate gov-
ernance . Three of our current directors are women . One director is from India, one was born and raised in Argentina, one is 
African-American, and one, who was raised in Colombia, is Hispanic . Our Board includes members with diverse business experi -
ence in the food industry, consumer products, financial services, retail, packaging, finance, and international business . Every 
member of our Board is expected to be a person of the highest integrity and to abide by exemplary standards of business and 
professional conduct .
Our company has a long history of excellence in corporate governance . Campbell’s Corporate Governance Standards, first pub -
lished in our proxy statement in 1992, are reviewed annually by the Governance Committee and approved by the Board . The 
Governance Standards currently provide for four standing committees of the Board: Audit, Compensation and Organization, 
Finance and Corporate Development, and Governance .
The Board focuses on the areas that are important to shareowners, such as strategy, risk management, leadership development, 
emerging markets, director recruitment, external development, and executive compensation . Directors meet individually with 
senior management and visit a plant facility each year to assess operations . 
In 2006, the Board approved, and the company implemented, a continuing education program that provides eight hours 
of instruction for directors on topics relevant to the company and to directors’ fiduciary responsibilities . During a portion of 
every Board meeting, directors confer in an executive session in which no members of management are present . This past 
year, the full Board received an in-depth presentation on CSR and sustainability from our Vice President of Corporate Social 
Responsibility  .Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report24DEfINING SuCCESS
Four years ago, the Audit Committee recommended, and the Board approved, a framework pursuant to which the Board as a 
whole and each of the standing committees have been assigned specific accountabilities for review of the Company’s manage-
ment of certain categories of enterprise risk . The responsibilities reflected in the framework are included in the annual schedules 
of recurring agenda items for the Board and the respective committees, and the Audit Committee reviews the framework annu-
ally . Review of the principal enterprise risks and the process by which those risks are managed and monitored, is overseen by 
the Board and incorporated into their annual strategic planning process . 
All of our directors stand for election each year  . For their service, they receive annual fees based on the median director com -
pensation paid by peer food and consumer products companies . Approximately 50% of each director’s compensation is paid in 
cash and 50% is paid in common stock . Director stock ownership requirements have existed at Campbell since 1993 . Currently, 
our directors beneficially own more than 44% of our company’s common stock .
In FY2009, the full Board convened seven times, and all directors attended more than 82% percent of scheduled Board meet-
ings and the sessions of the committees on which they served .
Public Policy Engagement 
Campbell participates actively in the discussion of local, state, national, and international public policy issues relevant to our 
business strategies and operations, from food safety and advertising to healthcare and international trade . We also contrib -
ute to public dialogue on policy issues through our memberships in food industry trade associations, such as the Grocery Manufacturers of America, the Food Marketing Institute, the American Bakers Association, the Confederation of Food and Drink Industries of the EU, the Food and Consumer Products Association of Canada, the Australian Food and Grocery Council, and 
the International Life Science Institute . We express our views candidly and are committed to transparency in our interactions 
with government agencies and officials . Campbell’s lobbying disclosure reports are filed with the appropriate state and federal 
authorities under the U .S . Lobby Disclosure Act and are available for review at www  .senate .gov/legislative/ Public_Disclosure/
LDA_reports .htm .
In 2009, Campbell adopted a formal set of Political Accountability Guidelines and related disclosures, which are available on 
the company’s public website . In the U .S ., the company does not endorse any individual political party or candidate, but we do 
encourage voluntary political activity by our employees . Our employees can contribute funds to political candidates and orga -
nizations engaged in policy issues that are important to our company, such as food manufacturing standards and worker safety, 
through Campbell’s Political Action Committee (PAC), a segregated fund that is affiliated with the company  . Contributions made 
by the Campbell PAC are publicly reported in accordance with federal law  . To view Campbell PAC’s disclosures of contributions 
and expenditures to the Federal Election Commission (FEC), visit www  .fec .gov/finance/ disclosure/disclosure_data_search .shtml . 
Also in 2009, Campbell established its Public Policy Council, an 11-member committee of senior executives that evaluates and 
advises the company on the array of public policy issues that affect Campbell and the food industry  . By providing thoughtful 
analysis and leadership, the Public Policy Council helps Campbell’s Government Affairs group provide information and valuable 
insights to both to our trade associations and directly to regulatory agencies and elected officials . Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report25DEfINING SuCCESS
Winning With Integrity 
Codes and Policies
Campbell is committed to win in the marketplace and in the workplace in compliance with the law and in accordance with the 
highest ethical standards . We will compete vigorously, but we will be honest, lawful, and fair in our dealings with our employ -
ees, customers, consumers, communities, and all others whose lives we touch . This bedrock principle drives all that we do and 
illuminates all that we aspire to achieve . Our employees know that they are expected to honor our company’s commitment to 
integrity at all times, everywhere in the world .
Campbell’s Winning With Integrity program provides the resources, tools, and guidance that enable our employees to under -
stand and comply with our standards and expectations for business conduct . The program includes, among other things, an 
interactive website, extensive written materials, and a comprehensive, worldwide training program . Among the resources 
available on our website are Campbell’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, our Corporate Compliance Manual, information 
about our Integrity Hotline  and our compliance and ethics training program, and links to core corporate policies .
Principal Codes and PoliciesCampbell’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is the foundation document of the Winning With Integrity
 program . The 
Code outlines our company’s basic standards and expectations, highlights important Campbell policies, and summarizes cer -
tain fundamental legal requirements that our employees must follow at work . It also provides guidance about other resources 
to which employees can turn if they have questions or concerns about a potential legal or ethical problem . The Code is avail -
able in multiple languages, and every Campbell employee receives a personal copy  . 
Individual corporate policy statements on specific compliance issues are issued by the CEO and updated as necessary  . Other 
policies, manuals, and guidelines are issued by the respective business units and corporate functions . A central Index of 
Standards and Procedures for Compliance, maintained by the Legal Department, provides a comprehensive inventory of the 
policies, procedures, and guidelines in use at the corporate level and within the individual businesses and functions . 
New or revised corporate policies and guidelines are issued every year  . In FY2009, for example, Campbell endorsed the 
United Nations Global Compact, adopted a formal set of corporate Human Rights Principles, and approved new guidelines on 
corporate political accountability and environmental sustainability  . We also issued a new anti-bribery policy and guidelines for 
personal postings on social media by Campbell employees .
Examples of key corporate policy statements and guidelines relevant to CSR and sustainability include the following:
•	Human Rights Principles
•	Environmental Sustainability Policy
•	Political Accountability Guidelines
•	Global Guidelines for Responsible Advertising to Children
•	Commitment Concerning Advertising to Children
•	Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
•	Supply Base Requirements and Expectations ManualCampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report26DEfINING SuCCESS
Education and Training
Campbell provides comprehensive training for every employee on “core” issues relating to ethics and compliance, and 
“risk-based” training that is tailored to individuals’ roles in the company and the issues associated with their specific job 
responsibilities . 
As part of the Winning With Integrity program, all employees are required to complete annual training focused on our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
 This training is available online or in person, and is offered in 13 languages . To maintain interest 
and engagement, we vary our core training courses by emphasizing different aspects of the Code every year  . One course, for 
example, focuses on situations involving workplace harassment, discrimination, violence, and concerns about product quality  . 
Another illustrates the application of the Code to issues relating to workplace privacy, confidentiality, conflicts of interests and 
gifts, financial integrity, and records retention . Our newest core training course, launched in FY2009, provides examples illustrat -
ing conflicts of interest that may arise from outside employment, the importance of reporting unethical behavior, and proper 
revenue recognition .
Campbell’s Integrity HotlineCampbell’s Integrity Hotline is a service through which complaints and concerns can be reported to the Company or the Board 
on a confidential and/or anonymous basis . Access to the hotline is available through a secure Internet website and toll-free by 
telephone from all countries in which Campbell does business . To comply with special requirements of the European Union and 
in certain EU member states, we maintain a separate hotline service for employees in France, Belgium, and Germany  . The avail -
ability of the Integrity Hotline  and instructions for its use are widely publicized to our employees around the world . All reports to 
our hotlines are investigated . 
Evolution of the ProgramOur Winning With Integrity program is continuously assessed and adjusted to reflect developments in our business, such as 
entry into new markets and other strategic initiatives . Reflecting our commitment to building a diverse and inclusive workplace, 
new online training in diversity and inclusion was introduced in FY2009 . With the growth of our new business operations in 
Russia and China, we also expanded training on the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act . 
We also modify our training program, as well as our standards and procedures for compliance, in response to new legislative and regulatory requirements, enforcement trends, political and public policy concerns, and trends in the broader business and 
financial environments . Following the downturn in the U .S . economy, for example, we have intensified training on the man -
agement of credit risks . In FY2009 we also provided additional training for Human Resources personnel in the U .S . on recent 
developments in labor and employment laws and regulations, and special instruction to our sales personnel in Canada on the 
new Canadian Competition Law  .Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report27DEfINING SuCCESS
Stakeholder Engagement
Campbell applies multiple strategies to engage our stakeholders and gather diverse 
external perspectives on our business activities. 
Campbell uses multiple tools to gather diverse external perspectives on our business activities . In addition to third-party con -
sumer and customer research, our Consumer and Customer Insights, and Consumer Affairs departments, and our Customer 
Relationship Managers help us identify the priorities of our marketplace stakeholders .
Specific processes are used to obtain feedback from our suppliers, employees, investors, and external thought leaders in areas 
including health and nutrition, food safety and quality, environmental stewardship, community relations, and employee engage-
ment . We also conduct benchmarking for leadership performance and interact with many trade and issue management groups 
worldwide . To complement the rich input we receive through our existing stakeholder engagement models, in FY2009 we also 
conducted specific surveys on CSR and sustainability with consumers, key customers, suppliers, and internal brand managers .
Consumers genuinely appreciate the opportunity to provide feedback on CSR . Below are just three of the more than  
100 comments we received after our most recent consumer survey of key CSR attributes and perceptions . 
Campbell’s business leaders serve as trustees or members of the advisory boards of many organizations engaged in the CSR/sustainability agenda, including, for example, the following: 
•	American	Council	for	Fitness	and	Nutrition
•	Healthy	Weight	Commitment	Foundation
•		Agricultural	Sustainability	Institute,	University	of	  
California at Davis
•	Food	Allergy	Research	and	Resource	Program	 	
•	Center	for	Food	Safety	at	the	University	of	Georgia	
•	Food	Allergy	&	Anaphylaxis	Network	
•	Boston	College	Center	for	Corporate	Citizenship	
•	Society	of	Consumer	Affairs	Professionals	(SOCAP)	
•	Net	Impact
•	Food	for	All
•	Association	for	Consumer	Research
•	Foundation	for	Strategic	Sourcing
•	European	Cluster	for	Fruit	and	Vegetable	Innovation
•	Food	Bank	of	South	Jersey
•	Students	in	Free	Enterprise
•	United	Way	of	Camden	County
•	United	Way,	Wilton/Norwalk,	CT“ I just wanted to say “Thanks” for creating a great 
site devoted to listening to the customers. It shows 
that you are a great company and one of the reasons you’ve been around for so long. You truly are a benchmark for other companies to follow and my hats off to whoever came up with this idea for this site and also to the CEO or others running this fine company. I feel very proud that I can offer my opinions and that someone IS listening to me and that I really am making a difference. Keep up the great work! I appreciate everything you’ve done so 
far.” GREG
“ Thank you for this opportunity! It’s nice to see a 
company trying to find out what really matters to 
the consumer — thank you!” KRISTIN
“ Thanks for the opportunity to help improve 
Campbell’s and to offer my opinion on a vari-ety of subjects. I really enjoy taking part in this 
forum.” SHARONCampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report28DEfINING SuCCESS
In addition, Campbell has established a Scientific Advisory Panel to provide external expertise on vegetable nutrition . The panel 
has been designed to provide strategic insights on current and emerging science on vegetable and plant ingredients including 
their nutrient/phytonutrient composition; the health benefits that these vegetable/plant ingredients and phytonutrients could provide; how manufacturing and processing may affect these nutrients and phytonutrients; and how product attributes can be 
delivered from this science . All of this information is part of the materiality assessment that is conducted annually in the CSR and 
sustainability strategic planning process .
STAKEHOLDER INTERACTIONS TyPES Of ISSuES STRATEGIC BENEfITS
Employees • Employee forums
• Brand- and plant-based  
intranet sites
• Business Resource Affinity 
Networks
• Employee surveys 
• Anonymous channels
• Labor negotiations
• Innovation portal• Business trends,  
interests, and knowledge 
• New ideas for innovation• Open and reliable channels of communication across entire workforce
• A sense of shared perspective, with multiple touch points to support alignment
Health Research and  Advocacy Bodies
• R&D relationships 
• Campbell memberships
• Research results 
• Strategic issue partnerships• Nutrition and labeling  standards
• Clinical research 
• Industry partnerships• Cutting-edge science on nutrition
• Accurate and understandable labeling 
• Cause marketing relationships aligned with Campbell brands
Consumers
• Dedicated Consumer Affairs organization, web portal, telephone, and written interaction 
• Consumer insights research
• Campbell’s Kitchen website 
• Nutrition and wellness website
• Specific consumer studies, including on CSR/sustainability• Product ingredients
• New product inputs
• Labeling
• Nutrition
• Product use and recipes 
• Buying and use behavior
• Consumer priorities• Understanding and alignment 
with consumer interests and 
trends 
• Direct, high-touch relationship 
with Campbell’s consumers
• Trust and ability to 
communicate rapidly
Customers • Direct customer relationship 
organizations 
• Top-to-top customer 
meetings (including CSR/sustainability strategy) 
• 360° customer feedback 
vehicles• Business relationships
• Customer service & support 
• Marketing support 
• Trade practices 
• Logistics & supply chain 
capabilities• Tailored business strategies 
that meet our customers’ needs and priorities       
Suppliers
• Assessments and audits 
• Face-to-face meetings
• Business continuity plans
• Community partnerships 
• Supplier diversity initiatives 
• Product design
• Sustainable packaging fairs• Product quality and safety
• Sustainable packaging
• Supply chain risk mitigation
• Cost-saving opportunities
• Partnership in local citizenship 
activities• Robust and reliable supply 
chain 
• Alignment on ethical, human 
rights and environmental expectations
continued on next pageCampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report29DEfINING SuCCESS
STAKEHOLDER INTERACTIONS TyPES Of ISSuES STRATEGIC BENEfITS
Shareowners • Meetings with institutional 
investors and major 
shareowners to address business and CSR/sustainability issues
• New expanded outreach to 
socially responsible investors• Business performance
• Health and Wellness product 
strategies 
• International expansion plans
• Sustainability targets and 
results• Close and interactive 
relationship with shareowners from institutional to retail
• Enhanced understanding of 
Campbell’s seven business strategies
Communities and  
NGOs • Direct, on-the-ground 
relationships 
• Networking relationships 
across our community 
partners 
• Recognition events
• Brainstorming discussions 
• Regional priority plans —  
health, community revitalization, youth 
• Signature partnerships• Critical local needs — hunger, 
youth, support services in our communities
• Strategic partnership priorities 
— heart health, obesity, sustainable agriculture, diversity• Focused, tailored approach 
to community service that is aligned with the Campbell family of brands, our local communities, and the most pressing priorities on which Campbell can have the greatest impact
Governments,  
Policy Makers
• Campbell Public Policy  
Committee sets priorities 
• Direct engagement on issues 
important to Campbell 
business 
• Regulatory affairs employees 
at plant and international sites 
• Significant monitoring and 
communication activities• Food safety, quality, labeling
• Regional priorities 
• Health, wellness and nutrition 
policy• Credible and authentic 
relationships with policy makers 
• Consistent policy positions 
globally
• Building a reputation as a 
trusted source of industry perspectivecontinued from previous pageCampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report
Nourishing Our ConsumersCampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR ReportAdvancing Global Nutrition and Wellness
Continually advance the nutrition and wellness profile 
of our product portfolio.Overview
For more than a century, 
Campbell has been dedi-cated to Nourishing Our Consumers by providing nutritious, high-quality, and 
great-tasting foods . 
Offering Healthy and 
Nutritious Products
Campbell is committed to 
helping consumers use food to maintain and advance their health and personal well-
being . 
Ensuring Customer 
Satisfaction
Campbell actively seeks and 
values consumer feedback because earning our consum-ers’ trust is, and always will 
be, our paramount focus . Food Safety and Quality
Campbell’s commitment to providing products that are wholesome, safe, and affordable has allowed con-sumers to enjoy our brands 
for generations . 
Advancing Social Impact 
with Our Consumers and Our Customers
Strategic partnerships 
between Campbell, our consumers, and our custom-ers allow us to make a more powerful impact in key social 
areas . 
Recognition
Campbell’s core principle of  “Winning in the Marketplace”  
is literally brought to life 
through recognition . IN THIS SECTIONNourishing Our Consumers
At Campbell, Nourishing Our Consumers 
begins with our wholesome portfolio. That’s why we have dedicated ourselves to providing consumers with nutritious, high-quality, and great-tasting food for more than a century. OvER THE P AST yEAR, WE ...
OuR 2020 GOALS
•	Offered	90	soups	at	healthy	sodium	levels,	
including Campbell’s condensed Tomato 
•	Certified	85+	U.S.	products	by	the	American	
Heart Association
•	Certified	100+	products	with	Canada’s	Heart	&	
Stroke Foundation Health Check™ 
•	Joined	the	Healthy	Weight	Commitment	
Foundation to help reduce obesity 
•	Created	five	community	gardens	with	the	
National FFA Organization and Urban  
Farming Inc . 
Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report32NOuRISHING OuR CONSuMERS
Overview 
Campbell’s goal is to make healthy products an affordable, everyday opportunity for all 
consumers to help them meet their nutritional requirements and lifestyle needs. 
At Campbell, Nourishing Our Consumers begins with our wholesome portfolio . Earning and maintaining our consumers’ trust is, 
and always will be, our paramount focus . For more than a century, we have dedicated ourselves to nourishing our consumers by 
providing nutritious, high-quality, and great-tasting foods . 
We nourish the lives of our consumers by:
•	Delivering	safe,	high-quality,	affordable,	and	convenient	foods	and	beverages
•	Continually	improving	the	nutritional	value	of	our	products	
•	Using	consumer	feedback	to	improve	our	offerings
•	Providing	value-added	services,	such	as	recipes,	in	our	advertising	and	on	our	websites
•	Marketing	our	products	responsibly
To address the growing interest in issues such as healthy weight management, heart health, childhood obesity, and quality of 
life, we are increasing our focus on foods that meet consumers’ increasing needs for nutrition and well-being .
We provide consumers around the world with great-tasting products in a range of choices to help them meet their nutritional 
requirements and lifestyle needs . Our goal is to make healthy products an affordable, everyday opportunity for all consumers . In 
addition, we will continue to educate our consumers regarding food choices and how our products, as part of a balanced diet, 
help support a healthier lifestyle . An important component of this effort is providing accurate and reliable labels with ingredi -
ents and nutrition information to help our consumers can make informed purchasing decisions . 
Campbell’s Nutrition and Wellness website offers simple, everyday solutions, tools, and information to help our consumers meet 
their wellness goals . Our goal is to provide useful information to help consumers make healthy choices whether they are at 
home or on the go . Campbell’s Kitchen works to make this information even more accessible by providing a variety of practical, 
great-tasting recipes and menu plans that are good for families and their budgets .Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report33NOuRISHING OuR CONSuMERS
Offering Healthy and Nutritious Products
Campbell’s focus on the nutrition and wellness credentials of our products provides  
our consumers with a portfolio of healthy and affordable options for themselves and  their families.
Around the world, the role of food in maintaining and advancing health and personal well-being is growing among consumers . 
At Campbell, we continue to add wellness attibutes to our products and now in the U .S . have more than 100 products with a 
healthy level of sodium; more than 200 that are low in fat and saturated fat; more than 150 products that have 100 calories or 
less per serving; and more than 85 products that are certified by the American Heart Association . Our goal is to continue to 
deliver great-tasting products that can be part of a healthy diet and lifestyle . 
Growth of Nutrition and Wellness Product Portfolio includes Organic, Full Vegetable Serving, Low Calorie, Low Fat, Heart Healthy Sodium, Whole Grains. 
Continually Advancing the Nutrition and Wellness Attributes of Our Product Portfolio
Healthy Sodium Levels: Campbell has been a food industry pioneer in our commitment to reduce the amount of sodium  
consumed in the typical diet . For more than 40 years, we have offered our consumers lower-sodium soup options . Over the  
past decade, we have made significant progress advancing our science, technology, and formulation capabilities to deliver 
lower-sodium choices that are also great-tasting .
Growth of Nutrition and Wellness Product Portfolio ($ in millions)Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report34NOuRISHING OuR CONSuMERS
Since 2005, Campbell has more than quadrupled the number of reduced-sodium products in our portfolio . To date we have 
advanced sodium reduction in more than 90 of our soups, including a 32% reduction of sodium in our top-selling Campbell’s 
condensed Tomato soup to the healthy sodium level of 480 milligrams per serving while preserving its great iconic taste . In 
addition to soup, we have offered lower-sodium choices in our V8 juices, Campbell’s SpaghettiOs pastas, Pepperidge Farm 
natural breads, and introduced Prego  Heart Smart Italian sauces . 
In Canada, across both retail and foodservice channels, approximately 100 products meet the stringent criteria for the country’s 
Heart and Stroke Foundation’s Health Check™ program . Campbell Canada is continuing to add lower-sodium choices, such as 
Healthy Request  soups . Campbell’s Kids condensed soups have less than 480 mg sodium per serving, the lowest level of any 
condensed soup in Canada . Campbell Canada’s leadership in sodium reduction also has been recognized by Blood Pressure 
Canada’s Award of Excellence — the only such food manufacturer in Canada to earn that honor  .
In Australia, Campbell continues to introduce products with lower sodium across our portfolio of soups, sauces, and beverages . 
Over the last past years, we have launched many new low- or reduced-sodium products into the marketplace — products rang-ing from soups to stocks to juices under the Campbell’s Country Ladle, Campbell’s Real Stock and V8
 brands . All of Campbell 
Australia’s ready-to-serve soups meet the Australian National Heart Foundation’s guidelines for sodium .
In our foodservice channels, we have reformulated and expanded our line of soups and Pepperidge Farm products offered 
in	schools	to	meet	the	standards	outlined	by	the	Alliance	for	a	Healthier	Generation	—	a	partnership	between	the	William	J.	
Clinton Foundation and the American Heart Association — in which Campbell was one of the first participants to join in  
October 2006 .
Trans-fats 
In recent years, the food industry has acted aggressively to address consumer concerns about trans-fats (TFAs), which often 
found in processed food products . Campbell has been an industry leader in removing trans-fats across our product portfolio 
while maintaining great taste, texture, and quality  . In 2004, we announced the reformulation of our entire line of Pepperidge 
Farm Goldfish  crackers to contain zero grams of trans-fats . Since then, we have reduced or eliminated trans-fats in almost all of 
our bakery products . We continue to look for opportunities to reduce the saturated fats in our snack products and to use leaner 
meats in our soups .
Promoting Positive Nutrition 
Whole Grains: The U .S . Dietary Guidelines recommend making half your grains whole grains . Campbell provides whole grains 
in a broad range of products including more than 25 varieties of Pepperidge Farm  breads, rolls, English muffins, and bagels . In 
2009, Pepperidge Farm had more bakery products certified by the American Heart Association than any other bakery com-
pany . Pepperidge Farm also has developed Goldfish  crackers and graham snacks that are made with whole grains in the U .S . In 
Australia, Arnott’s offers whole grain Arnott’s Vita-Weat products, including 9 Grains Crispbreads and Grain Snacks made with 
100% whole grain wheat . In 2007, Campbell’s  condensed Kids’ Shapes soups in the U .S . were reformulated with whole grain 
pasta . Whole grain pasta is also featured in several varieties of Campbell’s Select Harvest  and Condensed soups . 
Organic Offerings: To meet growing consumer demand for organically certified products in the U .S . market, we offer organic 
versions of several of our popular products, including Campbell’s tomato juice, V8 vegetable juice, Swanson broths, and Prego 
Italian	sauces.	In	July	2008,	we	announced	the	acquisition	of	the	 Wolfgang Puck soup business, one of the leading organic soup 
brands in the U .S . In Europe, we have launched organic soups under the Erasco  brand . Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report35NOuRISHING OuR CONSuMERS
The Healthy Request Line:  Campbell has a dedicated product line of soups that meet criteria established by the U .S . Food 
and Drug Administration and the U .S . Department of Agriculture for healthy foods . These products are 98% fat free, have up to 
50% less sodium, have zero grams of trans-fats, and are low in saturated fat and cholesterol . They also contain at least 10% of 
the Daily Value of specific beneficial nutrients, such as vitamins A and C, calcium, iron, protein, and fiber  . All 25 Healthy Request 
soups have been screened and verified to display the American Heart Association’s heart-check mark .
Weight Management 
Soup has been described as a “secret weapon” for weight control by dieticians that recognize the desirable attribute of low 
caloric density (the relationship of calories to volume) that many soup varieties offer  . Campbell has introduced a range of Light 
soups in both its Campbell’s Condensed and Campbell’s Select Harvest  soups . Beyond soup, Pepperidge Farm has increased 
the number of 100 calorie packs that are being offered for both cookies and Goldfish  crackers . Vegetable consumption as part 
of a healthy diet may also help with weight management . Recent research found that the simple addition of V8 100% vegetable 
juice in people’s diets was part of a successful strategy to help them meet the vegetable guidelines . 
using Nutrition Science to Enhance food Nutrition
Research Support: Campbell has a long history of conducting and supporting research in better nutrition, food preparation, 
and dietary patterns . Using a multidisciplinary approach of nutritional, food, sensory, culinary, and packaging science, we strive 
to offer consumers healthier choices that also meet their uncompromising taste expectations .Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report36NOuRISHING OuR CONSuMERS
Ensuring Consumer Satisfaction
Campbell encourages our consumers to provide feedback because we continuously strive 
to develop new products that will meet or exceed our consumers’ expectations for great-tasting, affordable foods with good nutritional value. 
Campbell actively seeks and values consumer feedback, whether positive or negative . Each year, nearly 450,000 consumers in 
the U .S . contact Campbell to ask questions, express concerns, or provide praise about our products . The majority of these con -
tacts are received through our toll-free phone number, but consumers can also send letters or reach us through our website . 
Our Consumer Affairs team is charged with receiving, tracking, and responding to all consumer feedback . This includes contact -
ing individuals who use or control social media outlets that comment on our products . Through ongoing analysis of consumer 
comments, we are able to improve our products and services . 
Innovating with Ideas from Within Campbell and Beyond
Campbell has a passion for innovation . We continually seek to improve the quality, wellness profile, convenience, and value  
of our products . We are always interested in ideas for new products, packaging, marketing, and production technologies that 
will help us meet the needs of our consumers and customers better, faster, and more completely than the competition . We  
recognize that valuable ideas for innovation may come to us from many sources, both inside and outside the company  . 
Consumers, customers, suppliers, contractors, inventors, and friends often have ideas that they would like to share with us, and 
we welcome them . To streamline this process, Campbell, introduced Ideas for Innovation  in 2008 . This web portal enables 
people to submit ideas that are then shared with our skilled Research and Development and Marketing personnel, who are 
dedicated to improving our products, packaging, marketing programs and production methods . We also work with outside 
sources to develop innovative ideas . FY2009 
CONSUMER CONTACT PRIMARY CATEGORIES Inquiry
55%
Praise
10%
Complaint
35%Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report37NOuRISHING OuR CONSuMERS
In 2009 we also created ideaNET, an internal idea-generation program, and asked our employees to share their innovative 
ideas in areas like product development, sustainability, marketing, community programming, and health and wellness . Ideas 
that are submitted are acknowledged and reviewed by experts within the company  . Campbell employees offered up more than 
700 ideas in the first six months of the program .
Beyond simply listening to feedback, we are actively engaged in programs designed to help our consumers live better and 
longer lives . We understand, for example, that it can be a challenge to manage dietary needs for individuals who are allergic 
to certain foods . To increase awareness and provide additional education for families affected by food allergies, Campbell has 
partnered with the Food Allergy & Anaphylaxis Network (FAAN) to offer free six-month trial memberships to any family deal-
ing with allergies . By helping consumers participate in FAAN, we seek to assist those with allergies to understand their dietary 
options and obtain the information they need to minimize health risks . For our consumers who desire products that are free 
from ingredients containing gluten we have created a website that can be found at www  .campbellswithoutgluten . The site con -
tains important information as well as a list of products in which every ingredient has been verified to be gluten-free . 
Tracking Consumer feedback
Campbell conducts frequent surveys and other research to gauge consumer satisfaction and improve our understanding of what 
our consumers expect from us . We constantly challenge ourselves to find new and innovative ways to meet or exceed these 
expectations . According to The Center For Client Retention, Campbell ranked second and third in 2009 among 15 bench -
marked companies in the United States in exceeding customer expectations for handling inquiries and complaints, respectively  . 
Campbell also ranked first among peer U .S . food companies in overall satisfaction with our representatives with regard to han -
dling consumer inquiries . 
Providing Information Our Consumers Want
Campbell continually develops and tests new programs to provide consumers with useful information on meal ideas, health and 
wellness, and other tips . For example, each day our Meal-Mail program delivers nearly 500,000 recipes electronically to busy 
Americans who are hungry for convenient, great-tasting meal ideas that will please their families . Consumers can also access 
our Campbell’s Kitchen website (www  .campbellskitchen .com) at any time and download recipe ideas that have been tested and 
approved by our Campbell’s Kitchen team, often with the assistance of our nutritionists . 
New Product Innovation
We continuously strive to develop new products that will meet or exceed our consumers’ expectations for taste, nutrition, 
convenience, value, and variety  . All new products must meet our stringent standards for quality and safety  . Our manufacturing 
processes are designed to ensure the retention of nutritional value and preserve the goodness of our wholesome ingredients . 
Campbell’s Research and Development department is constantly monitoring trends and working to apply cutting-edge science 
to help the company grow globally  . Our strategies are focused on providing better everyday simple meals, healthy beverages, 
and snacking choices . Our goal is to help consumers reduce negative components in their diets, close nutrition gaps, maintain 
healthy weight, and improve heart health, with a special emphasis on vegetable and plant nutrition .
Protecting Our Consumers 
We maintain strict and consistent controls throughout our manufacturing processes, but we are also prepared to act swiftly and 
effectively if there is a problem with any of our products . If we suspect that the safety of a Campbell product has been compro -
mised, Campbell’s Corporate Crisis Management Team initiates a recall process to remove the product from store warehouses 
and shelves and alert consumers immediately  . Working through protocols established by government agencies around the 
world, we provide regular updates to our customers and consumers on the scope and status of any product recall . We also have 
24-hour support available to our retail trade customers and consumers to address any questions and concerns . In each FY2008 
and FY2009 Campbell conducted three product recalls, impacting seven products globally  .Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report38NOuRISHING OuR CONSuMERS
Food Safety and Quality 
Campbell has an extremely successful history of protecting the consumer. We fulfill the 
expectations that our consumers place on us to have robust safety and quality systems  in place. 
Campbell is committed to providing products that are wholesome, safe, and affordable . We are committed to maintaining our 
consumers’ trust by continuously improving our quality control processes . 
We have devised a set of worldwide quality standards that define the requirements for food safety and quality  . All Campbell 
businesses, as well as all of our suppliers and co-packers, are required to meet these standards . Our quality standards extend 
from the fields where our ingredients are sourced to the finished products that are shipped to our customers and then pur -
chased by our consumers .
Ingredient Sourcing and Traceability
A quality product begins with quality ingredients . We purchase most of our fresh ingredients from farms in the countries where 
we produce products . We also source certain ingredients from carefully selected suppliers around the world . 
Our ingredient suppliers and contract manufacturers must meet the requirements for safety and quality set forth in our Supply 
Base Requirements and Expectations Manual. These requirements were developed after reviewing the quality audits of supplier 
manufacturing sites, and are based on careful study of best practices throughout the food industry  . We conduct periodic audits 
and on-site inspections of our ingredient suppliers to ensure compliance with our worldwide quality requirements . 
To further ensure that the ingredients we receive are safe, our suppliers must verify that they can trace their ingredients to their 
point of origin . 
Product Manufacturing
Campbell operates more than 35 manufacturing plants in 11 countries with the support of more than 2,000 individual suppliers 
and more than 70 co-packers . Our facilities produce more than 5 billion packages of 10,000 distinct soup, sauce, baked snack, 
bakery, and beverage products . 
Throughout the manufacturing process, our quality teams monitor, identify, and address potential issues that could create a 
quality or safety risk . In collaboration with our suppliers, other food manufacturers, and customers, Campbell has committed to 
the Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI), establishing manufacturing facility food safety systems certification to GFSI recognized 
standards as a requirement .
•	foreign Material:  We use a variety of advanced technologies, including X-ray, metal detectors and magnets, process audits, 
and inspections to protect against foreign material contamination . We share best practices and technologies with our suppli -
ers and co-packers to prevent contamination early in the food chain .
•	Allergens:  We maintain strict internal controls to safeguard against cross-contamination of allergens during production . We 
control for a variety of food allergens, including fin fish, shellfish, peanuts, tree nuts, eggs, dairy protein (dairy in Australia), 
soy protein, wheat, and sesame seeds . Campbell has invested in data systems to maintain label ingredient statement and 
claims accuracy, such as gluten-free products . We have also pioneered the use of advanced coding and scanning technolo -
gies that enable individual package verification of labeling accuracy, allergen control, and product traceability  .
•	Genetically Modified (GM) Ingredients: We limit our use of GM ingredients primarily to ingredients derived from soybeans, 
canola, and corn sourced in North America . We adhere to all local labeling requirements in the markets where our products 
are sold . The company respects local market regulations and preferences regarding the use of GM ingredients . Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report39NOuRISHING OuR CONSuMERS
food Safety 
Campbell has a great legacy of leading the industry in food safety  . Food safety involves the growing, handling, preparation, and 
storage of food with the goal of preventing food-borne illnesses . At Campbell, food safety involves a collection of departments 
and teams that partner to manage risks and protect our consumers, our customers, our brands, and our Company  . 
Campbell professionals bring together a variety of scientific disciplines, such as toxicology, microbiology, thermal processing, 
analytical chemistry, and forensic analysis . Campbell experts are heavily involved with, and are often leaders in, the Grocery 
Manufacturers Association (GMA) and other highly respected technical, trade, and scientific organizations with committees dedi -
cated to food safety and analytical chemistry  .
Campbell has an extremely successful history of protecting the consumer  . Campbell employs several layers of technology to 
keep our food products safe from optical sorters to magnetic scanning to eliminate any metallic objects . To make certain that 
what’s on the label is what’s in the package, Campbell helped develop a “vision” system to ensure that the proper labels are 
placed on every can or package . Another emerging area is cutting-edge X-ray technology that not only can detect metal, glass, 
and other dense foreign objects, but can also identify package or filling defects .
We also understand that our products — and our reputation — are only as good as the ingredients that come from our sup-
pliers . Campbell has developed a comprehensive “farm to fork” program designed to protect the safety of ingredients and 
products throughout the supply chain, involving suppliers, packagers, and co-manufacturers . Our suppliers’ quality controls 
must be as good as ours, and we validate their processes to ensure that they are .
Vendors must meet stringent requirements using procedures called Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP), a 
systematic, preventive approach to controlling and eliminating all types of food safety issues . We use HACCP in our own manu -
facturing facilities as well . Vendors and co-manufacturers also are subject to rigorous and regular audits by Campbell’s Global 
Procurement and Supply Base Quality teams to ensure continued compliance with our exacting standards . We verify the safety 
of the ingredients and finished products using analytical tests, microbiological assays, and investigations of packaging integrity 
— a holistic approach that makes Campbell a leader in food safety  . Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report40NOuRISHING OuR CONSuMERS
Advancing Social Impact with Our Consumers  
and Our Customers
Campbell’s strategic partnerships increase our ability to impact issues that are important to 
our consumers, customers, and society. 
As part of our mission to nourish people’s lives everywhere, every day, Campbell has developed several signature strategic 
partnerships that allow us to make a more powerful impact than we could on our own in areas as diverse as urban farming, pro-
moting sustainable agriculture, accessible and healthy nutrition, addressing hunger in the U .S ., bringing positive opportunities 
to our youth, and even promoting awareness among women of the impact and causes of heart disease . 
Sustainable Agriculture
National FFA Organization and Urban Farming
At Campbell, our dedication to making the best soups goes beyond the ingredients . That’s why we support local farms and 
farmers across the United States . For the past two years we’ve teamed up with the National FFA Organization to plant seeds in 
community gardens, provide agricultural education grants to benefit young farmers in training, and help revive, preserve, and 
restore American barns .
As part of Campbell’s Help Grow Your Soup 	program,	we	have	contributed	$500,000	to	the	National	FFA	Organization	to	sup -
port scholarships for tomorrow’s leaders in sustainable agriculture . Campbell also worked with the National FFA Organization 
and Urban Farming Inc . to create five community gardens in urban communities across the U .S . After being planted, the 
gardens were maintained by members of FFA and Urban Farming, and all the vegetables harvested were donated to the local 
community  . 
PARTNERSHIPS TO ADv ANCE SOCIAL IMPACT A HEALTHIER PRODuCT PORTfOLIOCampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report41NOuRISHING OuR CONSuMERS
Hunger Relief
Helping Stamp Out HungerTM
The need for food assistance has never been greater  . According to the U .S . Department of Agriculture’s annual study measuring 
food security in the United States, the number of Americans living in food-insecure homes increased from 36 .2 million in 2007 
to 49 .1 million in 2008 . Even more troubling is the fact that one in four is a child . 
Stamp Out HungerTM is the National Association of Letter Carriers’ national food drive held on the second Saturday of May 
each year  . Campbell promotes the drive in the media and with the help of retail partners in-store . The company underwrites the 
cost of the postcard that is sent to every home in America to promote what is the world’s largest one-day food drive . In 2009, a 
record 73 .4 million pounds of food was collected by more than 230,000 letter carriers . 
Campbell and the National football League Tackle Hunger
Through the Campbell’s Chunky online Click For Cans program, we try to engage consumers in order to increase awareness 
regarding hunger in America . The Chunky brand team provides a donation of 32,000 cans of Campbell’s Chunky soup to the 
Feeding America food bank partners of individual NFL teams . In addition, as the Click For Cans competition progresses, the 
food bank of the winning team is awarded an additional donation of 17,000 cans of Chunky  soup . 
vegetable Nutrition
feeding America and V8 Make Every Serving Count 
Campbell’s V8 brand teamed up with Feeding America’s National Produce Program to help provide more than 30 million serv-
ings of fresh vegetables and fruit to those in need . The national Make Every Serving Count campaign’s objective is to make it 
easier for Americans living at risk of hunger to obtain nutrient-rich fresh produce in their diet . Campbell and V8 embarked on 
a	consumer	education	campaign	and	made	a	$1	million	donation,	allowing	Feeding	America	to	provide	more	than	30	million	
servings of fresh produce . 
Nutrition and Wellness
Healthy Weight Commitment foundation
Campbell is a founding member of the Healthy Weight Commitment Foundation . The Foundation works to reduce obesity, 
especially childhood obesity, by 2015 by promoting the importance of energy balance — balancing calories eaten with calories 
burned through activity — and focusing in three critical areas: the marketplace, the workplace, and schools .
As part of the Healthy Weight Commitment Foundation, Campbell is committed to building on our portfolio of healthy products 
in the marketplace, especially those well-suited to supporting healthy weight . We will continue our work with leading wellness 
organizations to help educate people about the importance of a healthy lifestyle . We are building on our nationally recognized 
and award-winning employee wellness programs to support our employees and their families and continuing to strengthen our 
commitment to America’s schools with programs such as our long-standing Labels for Education  program .
Campbell Supports Go Red for WomenTM To Help fight Heart Disease
It’s no coincidence that the red color of our iconic soup label stands for love and passion, but also for strength and courage, 
which come to mind when you see the red-dress symbol . In 2008, Campbell partnered with designer Lisa Perry to re-imagine 
the Campbell red dress once again . Her winning design was worn by singer Toni Braxton on the ABC television show The View 
to kick off American Heart Month .
Campbell continues its Red Dress commitment by partnering with The Heart Truth  campaign . This year we asked people from 
all over America to submit their own designs and heart-health hero stories . Visitors voted on their favorite dress from the top 
three submitted . The winning dress and designer was showcased at the Woman’s Day Red Dress Awards .
Campbell	has	pledged	$3.6	million	over	six	years	to	help	fight	heart	disease	among	women.	Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report42NOuRISHING OuR CONSuMERS
Pepperidge Farm and the Susan G. Komen Foundation Raise Awareness for Breast Cancer 
Pepperidge Farm released a range of specially pink-wrapped cookies to show support for the Susan G . Komen Foundation for 
the Cure® during National Breast Cancer Awareness Month . This was part of Pepperidge Farm’s ongoing commitment to finding 
the	cures	for	breast	cancer.	Pepperidge	Farm	donated	$270,000	to	the	Susan	G.	Komen	Foundation	in	2009.
Campbell’s Labels for Education
Campbell’s Labels for Education  (LFE) program has been an institution in U .S . schools for more than 36 years . The program is 
registered in more than 80,000 schools and impacts more than 17 .5 million students annually  . Over the last three years, we have 
awarded	more	than	$7	million	in	educational	merchandise	to	participating	schools.	
The LFE program supports schools by help-ing them obtain educational resources they might not otherwise be able to afford, such as computers, athletic equipment, and musi-
cal instruments . In 2009, we announced 
a renewed focus on Academics, Arts and Athletics to provide opportunities for our 
young people . Campbell partnered with the 
GRAMMY Foundation in a joint venture to make music education more accessible in tens 
of thousands of schools (K-6) across America . 
Through the partnership, the GRAMMY Foundation’s proprietary Discovery Through Music™ curriculum was made available to nearly 60,000 schools nationwide that are registered in Campbell’s Labels for Education 
program . LAURA LEE BLAKE  
Nourishing employees is as important as nourishing customers. At 
Campbell Canada, Human Resources Director Laura Lee-Blake is proud that Project Gateway, developed with heavy employee input has now launched, offering an expanded line of Gluten-Free and Halal-Certified products.
“Throughout the project, our own employees who were also true 
consumers with these needs were used as sounding boards as we moved through the commercialization process,” said Lee-Blake, who has been at the company for eight years. “It helps create a truly inclusive environment.”
Campbell Canada has 35 products that are certified Gluten-Free, 
including soups, salsas, sauces and beverages. The 13 Halal-Certified products are all from the soup line.
To ensure that Campbell Canada employees knew about the new 
products, the company undertook a number of initiatives including a one-day “Information Fair” featuring taste tests, guest speak-ers, and background presentations on Celiac Disease and Islamic practices. 
“This was an excellent example of how to ensure that we put as 
many resources towards educating our internal consumers as our external consumers,” Lee-Blake said.
In 2010, Lee-Blake hopes to find more ways to share wellness infor -
mation with employees to “help them make better lifestyle choices 
in order to stay healthy, happy, and productive,” she said. She has some very specific goals, like a wellness program for the Toronto plant that focuses on stretching, and more general ones, like com-municating the company’s changes to employees so they continue to be proud to be Campbell ambassadors.
She also wants to link programs and initiatives as often as possible 
so that wellness and diversity efforts become a foundational filter for everything the company does rather than being “programs” provided for employees.
“It is just how we do business,’ she says. Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report43NOuRISHING OuR CONSuMERS
Recognition
When Campbell receives recognition from our consumers, customers and the media, 
it is validation that we are on the right path on our journey to build the world’s most extraordinary food company by “winning in the marketplace.”
#2 Corporate Reputation:  Global Pulse U .S . Companies – Reputation Institute  
 
   
Blood Pressure Canada’s Award of Excellence: The only food manufacturer in Canada to 
earn this honor  . 
 
BusinessWeek named Campbell’s Among Top 100 Global Brands 
  
Kroger Names Campbell an Outstanding Supplier for exceptional results in key areas 
including quality, innovation, service level, audit results, sustainability and pricing .  
 Institutional Investor magazine named Campbell’s Investor Relations (IR) group among  
the top three in its category’s survey of sell-side investment firms .  
 Reader’s Digest Australia announced Arnott’s the winner of the Australian Iconic Brand 
Category in the magazine’s 2009 Trusted Brands Survey  . The survey examines consumer  
attitudes and opinions about everyday products and services .  
u.S. foodservice  recognized Campbell through its Vendor Recognition Program for its 
outstanding work on U .S . Foodservice’s exclusive brand partnerships and its excellence in 
the frozen grocery category  .  
food Marketer of the y ear: Media Post  
Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report
Nourishing Our NeighborsCampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR ReportIN THIS SECTIONNourishing Our Neighbors
Improve the health of young people
Measurably improve the health of young people in our 
hometown communities by reducing hunger and child-hood obesity by 50%
Impact 100 million youths
Make a positive impact on the lives of 100 million youths through our volunteer, community, and signa-ture programsOuR 2020 GOALS
Overview
Laying the groundwork for 
future impact through local needs and solutions, strategic partnerships, and signature programs
Supporting 
volunteerism
Making a difference in our communities through the commitment and passion of our employees
Giving
Meeting the needs of the communities where we live and workAchieving Lasting  
Social Impact
Leveraging our core compe-
tencies to make measurable change in the areas of hunger relief, obesity prevention, and  
positive impacts on youth
Winning in the 
Community (Recognition)
Local recognition from long-
time community partnersAt Campbell, we are proud of our long-
standing commitment to the communities where we live and work. We are focused on areas where we believe we are uniquely positioned to make measurable social and human impacts based on our mission, geographic focus, and core competencies.OvER THE P AST yEAR, WE ...
•	Logged	14,000	volunteer	hours	in	the	U.S.
•	Distributed	more	than	$21	million	in	product	
donations globally
•	Collected	73.4	million	pounds	of	food	during	
the annual Stamp Out HungerTM food drive
•	Reached	more	than	1.8	million	moms	with	our	
Fishful Thinking program 
•	Awarded	$2.5	million	worth	of	equipment	to	
schools through Labels for EducationCampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report46NOuRISHING OuR NEIGHBORS
Overview
At Campbell, we are proud of our long-standing commitment to the communities where 
we live and work. That commitment begins in our hometown of Camden, New Jersey, and extends to many communities where our employees live and work. We describe our community efforts as Nourishing Our Neighbors. We are focused on areas where we believe we are uniquely qualified to make measurable social and human impact, based on our mission, geographic locations, and core competencies.
We apply three delivery lenses to create sustained CSR value in our community efforts: 
1. Local Needs, Local Solutions.  We know that one size does not fit all . We are also cognizant that we do not have people, 
plants, or even products in every community in the world . We do have long-term investments in many communities, ranging 
from wellness to nutrition to helping kids achieve their true potential in life .
2. Strategic Partnerships. We know first-hand that there are many great community-based organizations that know how  
to make an impact in the most efficient way possible . They know the local needs and how to maximize limited resources  
to make the most impact . In Camden alone, we maintain relationships with more than 100 community-based organizations 
that are aligned with our priorities and the community’s most pressing needs . We maintain similar strategic relationships  
with other organizations in each of the communities where we live and operate to make the most significant positive  
impact possible .
3. Signature Programs. Some of our programs are specifically designed to make a positive impact on youth, to significantly 
address the U .S . hunger challenge, and to promote awareness among women of the impacts and causes of heart disease . 
Campbell’s Labels for Education 	program	has	been	in	place	for	more	than	30	years,	contributing	more	than	$110	million	
worth of equipment to schools . The Stamp Out HungerTM initiative is the nation’s largest single-day food drive, which has 
collected almost a billion pounds of food since its inception, and AdDRESS Your Heart is a well-known partnership with the 
American	Heart	Association	in	which	Campbell	has	contributed	$3.6	million	over	six	years	to	help	fight	heart	disease	among	
women . These are just a few examples of programs in which strategic collaborations allow us to make even more meaningful 
impact than we could on our own .
Destination Goals
We have established new 2020 Destination Goals within our Nourishing Our Neighbors  CSR platform . These goals will inform 
and prioritize our efforts and programs over the next decade .
•	Measurably improve the health of young people in our hometown communities by reducing hunger and childhood 
obesity by 50%.  Our hometown communities include the headquarters locations of Campbell and Pepperidge Farm, and the communities of 
our principal North American plants .
•	Make a positive impact on the lives of 100 million youths through our volunteer, community, and signature programs.Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report47NOuRISHING OuR NEIGHBORS
Laying the Groundwork for future Impact
Campbell has a long history of making positive social impact in our local communities through monetary support, in-kind giving, 
and employee volunteerism . While this work has always been an integral part of our corporate culture, additional tools were 
needed to bring the program to the next level . 
The company’s Nourishing Our Neighbors CSR pillar was redesigned in April 2009 to streamline our community programs 
across all U .S . Campbell locations . The platform encompasses all community initiatives, including the Campbell Soup 
Foundation, our Dollars for Doers volunteer matching grant program, matching gifts to education, in-kind giving, and the 
United Way employee giving program . Integral to the redesign was the Nourishing Our Neighbors portal, an online info-center 
for employees that allows them to search for volunteer opportunities in their area, log volunteer hours, apply for Dollars for 
Doers grants, and learn more about Campbell community programs .
From	its	launch	in	April	2009	through	the	fiscal	year-end	in	July,	nearly	1,000	employees	accessed	the	 Nourishing Our 
Neighbors portal — logging volunteer hours, searching for and managing projects, submitting requests for Dollars for Doers 
grants, and much more . The portal provided not only a one-stop shop of information on community programs, but also access 
to all U .S . Campbell locations, including home access for plant employees, making our programs more accessible to everyone .Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report48NOuRISHING OuR NEIGHBORS
Supporting Volunteerism 
Beyond monetary and in-kind support, Campbell provides enthusiastic, passionate 
volunteers to local nonprofit organizations working to make positive change for residents in their communities. Whether volunteering on their own or as part of a departmental team, Campbell volunteers have done everything from skills-based volunteering, such as redesigning the layout for a Feeding America food bank to simply lending an hour to read to a child on-site at a Campbell location.
Employees volunteer in several ways at Campbell:
•	All	employee	service	days
•	Team-building	activities
•	As	individuals
At Campbell and Pepperidge Farm locations in the U .S ., employees engage annually in Make a Difference Week . In FY2009, 
more than 600 employees from seven different locations volunteered during the course of one week at 40 different projects, 
ranging from painting a mural at a local neighborhood center to planting trees along city streets . Volunteers worked with 20 
nonprofits during the week, many of which receive funding throughout the year from the Campbell Soup Foundation . National 
Make a Difference Day, which Campbell participated in for the past 20 years, grew to Make a Difference Week in 2007, when it 
was recognized that Campbell employees were looking for more turnkey opportunities to volunteer during the work day  . 
At Pepperidge Farm Headquarters in Norwalk, Connecticut, 200 employees worked with the Norwalk Parks and Recreation 
department to ready the Norwalk beaches for the Memorial Day opening during their annual employee service day  . This effort 
was aligned with Pepperidge Farm’s involvement in the development of Keep Norwalk Beautiful, an affiliate of Keep America 
Beautiful,  in 2009 . The organization aims to beautify the city by adding more gardens and parks while keeping it free from litter 
and graffiti . Besides providing employee manpower, Pepperidge Farm donated trees and shrubs to the Norwalk Land Trust to 
help preserve a 16-acre park for birds and animals .  Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report49NOuRISHING OuR NEIGHBORS
Dollars for Doers
Campbell employees are both encouraged and recognized for volunteer service completed during the workday and outside 
work hours through our Dollars for Doers program .
Campbell employees are encouraged to volunteer during the workday at company-sponsored volunteer activities . These 
activities provide an opportunity for employees to work with their department or team on making a difference in their local 
community and building employee engagement . Team-building volunteer projects are scheduled by the Office of Community 
Service and local employee engagement teams at Campbell plant locations and managed through the Nourishing Our 
Neighbors  portal . In the first four months of operation, opportunities to volunteer at more than 100 different nonprofit organiza -
tions were posted to the site, resulting in more than 700 employees across the U .S . logging more than 8,000 volunteer hours .  
At those rates, we expect to see several thousand employees use the tool every year, generating more than 30,000 hours of 
community service . Using the values put forth by the Independent Sector, a leadership forum for charities, foundations, and  
corporate giving programs committed to advancing the common good, Campbell employees volunteered approximately 
$162,000	worth	of	time	over	a	four-month	period.	
* The following graphic depicts statistics from calendar year 2009.Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report50NOuRISHING OuR NEIGHBORS
Employee volunteer activity at eligible nonprofit organizations is not only encouraged, but also financially supported through 
the Dollars for Doers program . Our Dollars for Doers program was created by Campbell in 1994 as a way to recognize and 
encourage both individual and team employee volunteerism . In April 2009, this program was revised and became a “dollars 
per	hours	served”	program,	in	which	nonprofits	receive	a	$500	grant	for	every	25	hours	of	volunteer	service	completed	by	a	
Campbell	employee.	From	April	through	the	end	of	the	fiscal	year	in	July,	Campbell	awarded	$72,000	in	grants	to	nonprofits	
throughout the U .S . based on the volunteer efforts of our employees . 
JIM HuffMAN describes Nourishing Our Neighbors at the individual level
For almost a decade, Jim Huffman has driven more than 20 extra miles a day to deliver meals to the elderly and 
homebound in his rural Northwest Ohio community. He shovels their driveways in winter, takes out their garbage, and performs minor home repairs, even if he has to climb up on the roof to do so. He’ll stop by and keep them company, providing companionship as well as nourishment.
“Everybody’s struggling,” Huffman said. “I have the time. Anything that I can do to help an elderly person stay in their 
house as long as they can, I will do.”
Huffman has worked for Campbell for 22 years. His current job is in the boiler house at the Napoleon, Ohio, facility. For 
him, it’s not a big deal to work at Campbell from 4 p.m. to 4 a.m., then start delivering meals at 11 a.m. It takes him at least two hours between driving and socializing, but he makes the rounds no matter how tired he is. 
“After I step into that first house, I’ve got a smile on my face,” Huffman said. “I don’t know who enjoys it more, them  
or me.”
Huffman delivers every day in the winter because he says, he works every day, so why not go the extra step? He said 
he’s always been surrounded by generous people and he learned from them. As a child, he hung out at the local den-tist’s office, watching as the man gave away dentures for free. 
Campbell, Huffman said, “gives so much to this community, it’s unbelievable.” Besides corporate-wide programs like 
food drives, the local plant has also given money to build a local hospital wing and supported local charities. Huffman’s fellow Campbell employees have also helped, swapping or filling in on shifts so he could make his deliveries.
And the next generation of givers is coming: Huffman said his 19-year-old son was recently en route to the movie 
theater when he encountered a couple who needed help paying for gas. Huffman’s boy gave the couple his last $8, and then walked home, forgoing his own entertainment.
“He’s something,” Huffman said proudly. Like son, like father.Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report51NOuRISHING OuR NEIGHBORS
volunteering with Strategic focus 
In order to both take advantage of Campbell’s core competencies and make a measurable impact in our designated community 
goal areas, Campbell employees frequently volunteer in the areas of hunger relief, obesity prevention, and making positive 
impacts on youth .
Campbell employees volunteer at their local Feeding America food banks in the U .S . and with Food Banks Canada . Volunteer 
service for local food banks goes beyond just hosting local food drives to much more involved skills-based volunteer initiatives 
such as assisting with the redesign of a food bank’s floor plan, building shelving, sorting and distributing food, as well as serving 
on the board of directors . Employees also support other Campbell initiatives such as Stamp Out HungerTM, the nation’s larg-
est single-day food drive, with volunteer service . For Stamp Out HungerTM, employees sort food at local post offices and food 
banks	the	day	of	the	food	drive	and	for	months	afterwards.	For	organizations	such	as	the	Food	Bank	of	South	Jersey,	Stamp	Out	
HungerTM donations represent one quarter of the food bank’s total annual inventory  . 
At	the	local	level,	employees	frequent	soup	kitchens	such	as	the	Cathedral	Kitchen	in	our	hometown	of	Camden,	New	Jersey,	
and Loaves and Fishes in Sacramento, California, serving meals to hundreds of low-income families and individuals during  
each day of volunteer service . In Maxton, North Carolina, employee volunteers worked during the summer of 2009 with a  
feeding program in Scotland County, delivering 26,000 meals to sites that serviced the 70% of children in the county eligible  
for free meals .
Employee volunteers are constantly seeking to make a lasting positive impact on young people, especially in the area of  
education . In Camden, local students are brought to our headquarters for one-on-one reading and literacy instruction for one 
hour each week through the Reading STARS and Read and Believe programs . In FY2009, 80 employees increased the reading 
competency of elementary school students by an average of one grade level in just 16 weeks during Reading STARS . 
At Pepperidge Farm headquarters in Norwalk, Connecticut, employees are actively engaged with Kids in Crisis, a nonprofit organization dedicated to providing free counseling, shelter, and other services to troubled children and families in Fairfield 
County  . Employees take the children on all-expense-paid shopping trips during the holidays to buy gifts for their families, 
engage in recreational games and activities with the youth, and much more . Employees at the Pepperidge Farm plant in 
Downer’s Grove, Illinois, run an annual back-to-school backpack drive for local students . In FY2009, their drive supplied more 
than 70 students with backpacks full of school supplies and Pepperidge Farm snacks to start off their new school year  . Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report52NOuRISHING OuR NEIGHBORS
Giving
Campbell continually meets the needs of its local community through many programs 
that provide financial support, including Dollars for Doers, Matching Gifts to Education, employee giving campaigns, and the Campbell Soup and Arnott’s Foundations. In addition, Campbell locations across the globe provide in-kind support to local organizations in need.
Campbell Soup foundation
Since 1953, the Campbell Soup Foundation has provided financial support to local community-based organizations that inspire 
positive change in the U .S . communities where employees live and work .
The	Foundation	places	particular	emphasis	on	Camden,	New	Jersey,	and	other	regions	where	Campbell	has	manufacturing	
facilities.	For	example,	the	Foundation	donates	more	than	$1	million	annually	to	a	variety	of	organizations	that	are	expanding	
educational, cultural, residential, employment, and other opportunities for Camden residents . Nourishing the lives of the people 
of Camden, particularly children, is among the Foundation’s top priorities . The Summer Program, the Foundation’s signature 
initiative, provides constructive summer activities for more than 10,000 youngsters each year  .
A small sampling of the Campbell Soup Foundation’s Camden partners includes: 
•	The	St.	Joseph’s	Carpenter	Society,	which	works	to	move	families	from	renters	to	homeowners	
•	The	Camden	Eye	Center,	which	provides	free	eye	exams	and	treatment	to	thousands	of	children	and	adults	
•	Urban	Promise,	which	gives	city	children	and	teens	a	safe	place	to	learn	and	grow
•	St.	Luke’s	Clinic,	which	makes	diabetes	management	education	available	to	residents
•	The	Cathedral	Kitchen,	which	provides	meals	and	culinary	training	to	impoverished	families
Beyond Camden, the Campbell Soup Foundation also supports charitable efforts in more than 20 communities where Campbell 
has operations . Partners include: 
•	The	Lancaster	Partnership,	which	provides	financial	assistance,	mentoring,	counseling	on	college	selection,	and	summer	
employment for minority youth in Denver, Pennsylvania, and surrounding communities
•	The	Scotland	County	Literacy	Council,	which	provides	literacy	and	job-readiness	training	for	the	unemployed	of	Maxton,	
North Carolina, and surrounding communities
•	The	Lamar	County	Chapter	of	the	American	Red	Cross,	which	provides	economically	disadvantaged	youth	with	training	in	
basic hygiene, first aid, and disaster, safety, and fire safety in Paris, Texas
The Campbell Soup Foundation also manages and funds several employee charitable programs: Dollars for Doers, the 
Matching Gifts to Education program and the United Way employee giving campaign . The Dollars for Doers program provides 
funding to local organizations based on the volunteer service of Campbell employees . The Matching Gifts to Education pro -
gram	matches	donations	made	by	Campbell	employees	to	institutions	of	higher	education,	donating	approximately	$140,000	
annually  . In the U .S ., the Campbell Soup Foundation provides matches to United Way employee giving campaigns at 14 
Campbell	and	Pepperidge	Farm	locations,	which	totaled	more	than	$1.1	million	in	FY2009.
Arnott’s foundation 
The Arnott’s Foundation, founded in 2004, focuses on families, aiming to create positive environments that allow families to 
build, maintain, and enjoy a better quality of life . It has three main beneficiaries: Camp Quality, a camp for children and families 
coping with cancer; Driver Reviver, a program that provides snacks to weary drivers to prevent fatigue-related accidents; and 
Fairy Sparkle, an inspiration to sick children in Australia’s hospitals . The Arnott’s Foundation also manages food donations from Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report53NOuRISHING OuR NEIGHBORS
Arnott’s to Foodbank Australia . In FY2009, the Arnott’s Foundation, funded through Arnott’s employee giving campaign, distrib -
uted	a	total	of	$119,664	(AUD).
Employee Giving 
Employees financially support organizations in their local communities through the annual United Way employee giving  
campaign . Fiscal year 2009 saw a record number of Campbell and Pepperidge Farm locations host campaigns, with  
14 locations participating, up from 10 in FY2008 . Campbell is the largest United Way contributor in many locations where we 
have headquarters or manufacturing facilities, playing a key role in caring for the needy and providing vital social services in 
those	communities.	In	FY2009,	Campbell	employees	contributed	more	than	$1.1	million	to	local	United	Ways.	Coupled	with	a	
Campbell	Soup	Foundation	match	of	$560,000,	total	Campbell	and	Pepperidge	Farm	contributions	exceeded	$1.6	million	to	
United Way branches across the U .S .
In Canada, employees participate in an annual giving campaign that benefits four agencies: the Canadian Cancer Society, 
Regional	Children’s	Charities,	the	United	Way,	and	Food	Banks	Canada.	In	FY2009,	contributions	totaled	$44,996	(CAD),	  
with	$21,120	(CAD)	donated	to	the	United	Way.	
FY2009 
GLOBAL GIVING 
Total: $32,558,086 Corporate Donations 
$2,952,064
Foundation 
$1,706,693
Employee Giving 
$1,164,871
Cause Marketing 
$5,214,707
In-Kind 
$21,519,751
Public Benefits Commitment — Camden
As part of the construction of a new 80,000-square-foot employee center at Campbell’s World Headquarters in Camden, the 
company	made	a	$10	million	pledge	to	the	city.	The	pledge	includes	approximately	$2	million	in	public	benefits	to	be	used	
over	the	next	five	years	to	support	job	training	and	professional	development	opportunities	for	Camden	residents;	$5	million	
in	grants	from	the	Campbell	Soup	Foundation	to	continue	its	philanthropic	work	in	the	city	over	the	next	five	years;	and	$3	mil -
lion through the Neighborhood Revitalization Tax Credit (NRTC) program, which provides businesses with a tax credit for funds 
given	to	nonprofit	entities	carrying	out	comprehensive	revitalization	programs	in	New	Jersey.
The	first	round	of	NRTC	funding,	distributed	in	FY2008,	totaled	approximately	$1.3	million	and	was	split	between	two	organiza -
tions . The first is Heart of Camden, a nonprofit organization serving the Waterfront South section of Camden that focuses on 
housing restoration, economic expansion, and human development . Heart of Camden’s neighborhood plan includes revitalizing 
Broadway, the neighborhood’s main corridor, creating quality market-rate and affordable housing, and improving air quality  . The 
second organization is Parkside Business and Community in Partnership, an organization focused on revitalizing the Parkside Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report54NOuRISHING OuR NEIGHBORS
neighborhood in Camden . Parkside’s neighborhood plan includes the revival of the business district along Haddon Avenue, 
support for affordable housing, financial literacy, and youth development projects .
The	second	round	of	funding,	totaling	$902,000,	was	distributed	in	FY2009	to	four	organizations	as	part	of	the	North	Camden 	
neighborhood plan . The plan supports a job training and development center managed by Respond, Inc ., a new housing develop -
ment on the vacant prison property in North Camden with Camden Lutheran Housing, a live-in facility for troubled teens working 
at learning job skills through technology with Hopeworks ’n Camden, and riverfront clean-up efforts with Save Our Waterfront .
The first two rounds of funding covered three main areas of Camden — North, Central, and South:
Achieving Lasting Social Impact
Campbell’s core competencies uniquely position us to make measurable change in the 
areas of hunger relief, obesity, and positive impacts on youth.
Measurable Social Impact in the Communities Where We Live and Work
In 2009, we set new long-term destination goals specifically designed to leverage key Campbell competencies and deliver  
positive social impacts to our communities .
Replacement Goals:
•	Measurably	improve	the	health	of	young	people	in	our	hometown	communities	by	reducing	hunger	and	childhood	obesity	  
by 50%
•	Make	a	positive	impact	on	the	lives	of	100	million	youths	through	our	volunteer,	community,	and	signature	programs
We will establish interim strategies and tactics in each of these areas with the goal of demonstrating measurable progress year 
after year  .
In 2010, we will partner with communities and agencies to more accurately define the hunger and obesity situation in 10 North 
American communities . This baselining effort is a critical first step in reaching our destination goal .CENTRAL
SOUTHNORTH EASTNORTH CAMDEN, NJ
• $902,000 (fy2008)
• Respond, Inc.
• Camden Lutheran Housing
• Hopeworks ‘N Camden
• Save Our Waterfront
CENTRAL CAMDEN, NJ
• $630,000 (FY2009)
• Parkside Business and Community in Partnership
SOuTH CAMDEN, NJ
• $630,000 (FY2008)
• Heart of CamdenNRTC 
fuNDINGCampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report55NOuRISHING OuR NEIGHBORS
Hunger Relief and Childhood Obesity
Campbell is committed to making a positive impact in the areas of hunger relief and obesity through product donations, signa-
ture programs, and local partnerships .
Hunger relief is integral to our Nourishing Our Neighbors  strategic platform . Through our ongoing partnership with and support 
of Feeding America, the nation’s largest food bank network, Campbell donated 2 .1 million pounds of food in support of the 
efforts of 24,000 separate charities in FY2009 . In addition, more products were distributed through ongoing product reclama -
tion	efforts.	Campbell	reimbursed	customers	more	than	$10	million	for	product	that	was	reclaimed	and	donated	at	the	local	
store level . 
In	Australia	during	FY2009,	Arnott’s	contributed	product	valued	at	more	than	$2.5	million	(AUD),	which	was	distributed	through	
Foodbank Australia and Driver Reviver  . Campbell and Food Banks Canada have entered a new comprehensive multiyear 
partnership that will support hunger relief across Canada through the donation of nutritious food, charitable funds, educational 
resources, and other awareness and community programs .
Campbell manufacturing plants are key members of the local communities in which they operate . For example, in FY2009, 
Campbell’s plant in Paris, Texas, donated approximately 1 .5 million pounds of food to more than 90 hunger relief agencies, 
including more than 160,000 pounds to Au’ Inca Door of Hope for hunger relief in Mexico . In Campbell’s Sacramento facility, 
product donations were distributed to more than 280 organizations spanning the state of California and beyond .
In	total	in	FY2009,	Campbell	donated	more	than	$21	million	worth	of	product	to	organizations	that	distributed	it	to	those	in	
need across the globe .
Stamp Out HungerTM
Since 1993, Campbell has partnered with the National Association of Letter Carriers for Stamp Out HungerTM, the nation’s 
largest single-day food drive . People across the country are invited to leave bags of nonperishable food items outside their 
mailboxes, which are then collected by the nation’s 230,000 letter carriers and delivered to local food banks . Campbell works 
to promote household awareness through the distribution of 120 million direct mail postcards, and also kicks off the drive each 
year by donating one million pounds of food to the effort . In FY2009, the food drive generated a record 73 .4 million pounds of 
food, bringing the total to more than 982 million pounds of food since the drive’s inception .Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report56NOuRISHING OuR NEIGHBORS
Chunky Tackling Hunger/Click For Cans Online Program
For more than a decade, Campbell’s Chunky  soup has been the official soup of the National Football League (NFL) . Campbell 
supports each team’s relationship with a local food bank by donating 1,000 cans in support of food drives during the football 
season . The Chunky soup brand also generates awareness for hunger relief through the annual Click For Cans  competition . 
Through weekly voting, fans are able to use their votes to receive a bonus donation to their community food bank . In 2009, fans 
of the Green Bay Packers were able to secure a donation of 24,000 pounds of Chunky soup, which was distributed to organiza-
tions across Wisconsin .STAMP OuT HuNGERTM fOOD DRIvE
yEAR  TOTAL PO uNDS COLLECTED (in millions)
1993 11
1994 32
1995 45
1996 45
1997 53.2
1998 53.5
1999 58.4
2000 63.2
2001 69.1
2002 61.7
2003 60.7
2004 70.9
2005 71.3
2006 70.5
2007 70.7
2008 73.1
2009 73.4
982.7M LBS  COLLECTED SINCE 1993Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report57NOuRISHING OuR NEIGHBORS
Let’s Can Hunger
Campbell is a strategic partner with Students in Free Enterprise (SIFE), a global, nonprofit education organization that estab-
lishes a partnership between business and higher education to create a better world . In FY2009, collegiate members of SIFE 
teamed with Campbell on an initiative called Let’s Can Hunger, a series of competitions in which participating teams developed 
creative solutions to one of the world’s most enduring challenges . 
Last year, 500 students on 118 teams competed to develop the best plan . The winning team came from Oregon State 
University  . The team toured the country to promote hunger awareness, blogging and tweeting about its stops at food banks, 
soup kitchens, and farms along the way  . Nationwide, SIFE members arranged the donation of 72,362 food items . 
In 2010, this program will include global outreach to Mexico, Canada, and Australia . Campbell and SIFE also worked together 
to develop a set of social impact metrics designed to assess the benefit to local communities and the students involved .
Help Hunger Disappear
On National Hunger Awareness Day, Campbell Canada partnered with Food Banks Canada for their Help Hunger Disappear 
campaign . Campbell built high-impact displays spelling the word “HUNGER” out of thousands of cans of Campbell’s Tomato 
soup at select locations in Toronto, Ottawa, Montreal, and Vancouver  . Campbell donated approximately 100,000 cans of 
Campbell’s  Tomato soup to Food Banks Canada through this program . 
Alliance for a Healthier Generation
Campbell has been a national partner of the Alliance since it was conceived by the American Heart Association and the Clinton 
Foundation in 2006 . Campbell has adopted voluntary nutrition guidelines for snacks and side items and has continuously 
improved the health profile of food items offered to schools across the U .S . and Canada . Examples include lower-sodium soups, 
whole grain Pepperidge Farm crackers and breads with zero trans-fats, and V8 beverages providing one or more full servings of 
vegetables and fruits . 
Healthy Weight Commitment foundation
In 2009, Campbell joined fellow members of the food and beverage industry, its retail customers, and nongovernmental orga-
nizations as part of the Healthy Weight Commitment Foundation to help reduce obesity in the U .S . by 2015 . The Foundation 
promotes the importance of energy balance — balancing calories eaten with calories burned through activity — while focusing 
on three critical areas: the marketplace, the workplace, and in schools . As part of this effort, Campbell is committed to building 
on our portfolio of healthy products, continuing to work with leading wellness organizations to teach people about the impor -
tance of a healthy lifestyle and building on our award-winning employee wellness programs .Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report58NOuRISHING OuR NEIGHBORS
Positive Impacts on y outh
Increasing the availability and success of positive activities for local youth is integral to our community programming .
Campbell Soup foundation Summer Program
Over	the	course	of	34	years,	the	Campbell	Soup	Foundation	has	provided	nearly	$16	million	in	grants	to	Camden	area	  
nonprofit organizations that offer summer activities in the areas of arts and culture, education, career exploration, and recre -
ation . These summer camps are made available to more than 10,000 socially and economically disadvantaged Camden youths 
each year  . Since the program’s inception, more than 525,000 children have participated in the program . The Foundation con -
tributes	approximately	$400,000	to	26	organizations	during	the	Summer	Program	annually.	
Labels for Education
Since its inception in 1973, Labels for Education 	has	awarded	more	than	$110	million	in	equipment	and	supplies	to	thousands	
of schools across the U .S . and Canada . The program is registered in more than 80,000 schools and impacts more than 17 .5 
million students annually  . In FY2009, the program underwent a major repositioning to refresh its presence with educators across 
the country  . All program elements that were intended to be shared or directed with students were designed to remove the 
Campbell-branded presence . This was done to ensure compliance with our children’s advertising pledge . In addition, the pro -
gram announced an expanded focus on supporting programs at-risk due to recent budget crises . 
Before the 2009–2010 academic year, Campbell partnered with the GRAMMY Foundation to provide schools that are reg-
istered in the Labels for Education program with access to the GRAMMY Foundation’s Discovery Through Music  curriculum . 
Customized for children in kindergarten through 6th grade, the six-week curriculum encourages life-long creativity, allowing 
children to explore and discover music within other subject areas like math and science . The curriculum gives students a founda -
tion in basic elements, such as beat, tempo, rhythm, and pitch . It also provides ways for instructors to apply these fundamentals 
as part of lesson plans for any subject . Our partnership makes this curriculum accessible to nearly 60,000 schools nationwide .Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report59NOuRISHING OuR NEIGHBORS
Fishful Thinking
Pepperidge Farm’s signature program, Fishful Thinking, is sponsored by the Goldfish  brand . It is designed to educate parents 
and teachers about the power of optimism and the role positive thinking can play in childhood development . Parents use the 
tools of the Fishful Thinking  website, www  .fishfulthinking .com, to help their children build confidence, overcome obstacles with 
a forward-thinking attitude, persist in the face of adversity, and transform setbacks into opportunities . 
The Fishful Thinking  program has spread to more than 1 .8 million moms in 2009 alone . More than 2,000 mom ambassadors 
in the Fishful Thinking  program have connected with more than 1 .7 million moms in their network . Online connections occur 
through the Fishful Thinking  website, newsletters, and Facebook page .
Royal Agricultural Winter fair 
The	Royal	Agricultural	Winter	Fair	is	the	largest	of	its	kind	in	Canada.	Campbell	sponsors	a	section	of	the	fair	called	Journey	to	
Your Good Health, which educates kids on health and nutrition . Campbell also sponsors a section called Healthy Eating Around 
the Clock and arranges a display with coupons for our products . Members of our Nutrition Strategy Team talk to parents and 
kids for ideas on how to eat healthy  . Lastly, Campbell sponsors a “Be Healthy” stage, where kids can answer Campbell trivia and 
win prizes . 
Camp Quality
Campbell Arnott’s, through the Arnott’s Foundation, has brought a little joy to children living with cancer all around Australia 
by helping with sponsored camps and fun days, and featuring Camp Quality kids’ artwork on product packages . Camp Quality 
caters to more than 1,500 families in Australia and works to improve the quality of life for children with cancer and their families . 
A dedicated employee volunteer program has also provided meaningful community engagement . 
fairy Sparkle
The Arnott’s Foundation supports Fairy Sparkle, a one-woman inspiration who, since 1991, has been visiting hospitals through -
out Australia to help bring joy to sick children and families . At the Sydney Children’s Hospital, she also created a Fairy Garden to 
serve as a respite from the grueling routine of long-term hospital stays .Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report60NOuRISHING OuR NEIGHBORS
Winning in the Community (Recognition) 
Corporate v olunteer of 2009:  Human Services Council of Norwalk 
Norwalk, Connecticut  
Corporate Community Partner of the y ear: Norwalk Economic Opportunity  
NowNorwalk, Connecticut   
Top food Donor:  Daily Bread Food Bank 
Toronto, Canada 
Nationwide Team of Excellence: American Cancer Society  
Maxton, North Carolina   
united Way of Coastal fairfield County:  Chairman Circle Award 
Norwalk, Connecticut
Hector MacLean Award of Excellence: United Ways of Scotland and Robeson Counties 
Maxton, North Carolina
2009 Campaign Chair’s Award for Lancaster County: United Way of Lancaster County 
Denver, Pennsylvania
2009 Community Impact Partner Award: United Way of Snohomish County 
Everett, Washington
2009 united Way of Central florida Summit Award:  United Way of Central Florida 
Lakeland, Florida
Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception: Partner of the Year 
Camden, New Jersey  
Paul Aiken Encore Award:  
South	Jersey	Cultural	Alliance	(presented	by	Symphony	in	C)  
Camden, New Jersey
Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report
Nourishing Our EmployeesCampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR ReportOuR 2020 GOALS
Engage 100% of our employees
Achieve 100% employee engagement in our CSR and 
sustainability strategies
Nourishing Our Employees
Campbell’s success model is founded on 
the belief that to win in the marketplace, 
we must first win in the workplace. Our Campbell Promise, “Campbell Valuing People, People Valuing Campbell,” captures the spirit of this belief and demonstrates the partnership we have  with our employees.
Diversity and Inclusion
We are committed to execut-
ing our global diversity and inclusion strategy in the workplace, as well as the 
marketplace and community  . 
Safety
Workplace health and safety programs protect our employees and increase 
productivity  . 
Recognition
Campbell has received both national and local recognition 
for our workplace efforts .Overview
Winning in the Workplace means delivering a superior employment experience to 
our employees .
Engagement & 
Recognition 
Employees who feel valued 
are more likely to be fully engaged in our Company’s 
success .
Extraordinary 
Workplace
We make significant  
investments in our employ-ees and their families through our full menu of benefits, 
resources, and programs .IN THIS SECTIONOvER THE P AST yEAR, WE ...
•	Achieved	a	world-class	employee	engagement	
ratio of 23:1
•	Received	the	Catalyst	award	for	our	work	with	
women in the workplace
•	Earned	a	Platinum	Award	from	The	National	
Business Group on Health
•	Exceeded	safety	benchmarks	in	the	food	industry
•	Spent	$140	million	with	women	and	minority-
owned businesses
•	Provided	$1.4	million	worldwide	in	tuition	
assistance Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report63NOuRISHING OuR EMPLOyEES
Overview
We define “Winning in the Workplace” as delivering a superior employment experience to 
our employees that reflects our values and delivers on our promise of “Campbell Valuing People, People Valuing Campbell.”
At Campbell, we know that our long-term success depends on our ability to maximize 
shareowner value . To achieve success, we know we must “Win in the Community” and 
“Win in the Marketplace .” And, we know that in order to win in these two key areas, 
we must first “Win in the Workplace .” 
Over time, we have worked to create an innovative, flexible, fun, and engaging culture 
where employees feel welcomed, recognized, included, rewarded, developed, nour -
ished, and inspired . This culture has also empowered our employees to take an active 
role in corporate social responsibility and sustainability by managing environmental resources, supporting our local communities, and advancing nutrition and wellness in 
our product portfolio . We have added a CSR and sustainability goal to our employees’ 
annual performance objectives to recognize their efforts and help us reach our destina-
tion goal of 100% employee engagement in CSR and sustainability business strategies .
Our commitment to the Campbell culture is reflected by both our Employee Promise of “Campbell Valuing People, People Valuing Campbell” as well as our Employee Value Proposition: 
Campbell … the ingredients to be extraordinary where icon brands thrive people are 
valued and you can make a difference .
Inspire
Trust
Create
Direction
Drive 
Organization
  Alignment
Build
Organization
VitalityExecute
With 
ExcellenceProduce
Extraordinary 
Results
OuR   
LEADERSHIP  
MODELOuR LEADERSHIP MODEL
Our culture is also shaped by our Leadership 
Model, which outlines the behaviors every Campbell employee is expected to know and demonstrate. The model is anchored in inspiring trust because we believe trust is at the core of everything we do. From respecting each other to taking responsibility for one’s own actions, it all begins with trust. 
Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report64NOuRISHING OuR EMPLOyEES
Our Employees
Campbell employs a diverse workforce with over 17,000 employees in more than 21 countries around the world . The majority of 
employees — nearly 10,000 — are located in the United States . 
 Some additional key facts about our workplace and employees:
•	In	FY2009,	Campbell	hired	1,281	new	employees:	568	(44%)	female	and	713	(66%)	male.
•	Global	turnover	decreased	from	13.7%	in	FY2008	to	11.6%	in	FY2009.
•	Women	currently	make	up	40%	of	our	global	workforce.	In	terms	of	leadership,	women	make	up	22%	of	the	global	leadership	
team and women-run businesses comprise a majority of the company’s total U .S . revenue and profit .
•	People	of	color	currently	make	up	34%	of	our	U.S.	workforce.
While Campbell continues to make progress in creating a more diverse and inclusive culture, we know there is more work to  
be done . See Diversity and Inclusion  starting on page 77 for more information .Senior Leadership 
CEO, Division and Business Unit Presidents & Functional SVPs
Manufacturing & Other 
Supply Chain EmployeesEntry-Level, Sales Employees  & Administrative StaffMid-Level Managers &  Individual ContributorsGlobal Leadership Team
Business and Functional VPs & Senior Directors21
10,2223,3802,320349Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report65NOuRISHING OuR EMPLOyEES
Engagement & Recognition
We believe that our employees feel most valued when they are fully informed, understand the 
company’s business goals and plans, and are invited to offer their feedback on a regular basis.
Research shows that engaged employees are more productive and profitable as well as more customer-focused, safer, and  
more likely to stay with the company  . At Campbell, we firmly believe that employee engagement is one of the most important 
indicators of our ability to drive performance improvement and win in the workplace . In fact, every employee who participates 
in our Performance Management process must include a specific objective around engagement . 
In addition to improved business results, CEO Doug Conant attributes Campbell’s culture revitalization over the past eight  
years to our continually improving employee engagement . Doug says, “ We’re performing at a higher level and are more 
innovative and more self-governed because our employees believe that each individual can make a difference to 
Campbell’s success.” Campbell began measuring employee engagement formally through the Gallup survey in 2001, and is 
proud of the considerable progress we have made each year  . 
Based on these results, Campbell was recognized by Gallup in 2009 as one of the “Best Places to Work” in America for a third 
year in a row  .
Over the past eight years, Campbell 
has continued to increase employee engagement to world-class levels as measured by our engagement percentile and engagement ratio versus the Gallup overall database, as well as the engagement ratio that compares the number of engaged employees to actively disengaged employees.  
In FY2007, our engagement 
percentile of 76% earned us Gallup’s world-class distinction and in FY2008 our engagement ratio rose to world-class levels of 12:1. For FY2009, we maintained world-class levels across both measures. Engagement Percentile*
05 06 07 08 0962% 71% 76% 79% 82%Engagement Ratios**
05 06 07 08 094:1 6:1 9:1 12:1 23:1
* □Measures how Campbell’s overall Grand Mean score compares relative to Gallup’s overall database of respondents
** □Ratio of engaged employees divided by those actively disengaged
While we are proud of our high engagement levels, we recognize that our work is not done, and there are many opportunities 
for improvement . We are focusing on three key areas for employees: to help ensure that they know what is expected of them, to 
have the materials and equipment to do their jobs, and to have the opportunity to do their best every day  . 
Through team and department action planning, we are working to address issues that are critical to sustaining our high overall 
engagement . As part of the process, Campbell University provides a variety of tools and resources to help teams “go beyond 
the numbers” and create meaningful action plans around key factors that drive engagement . Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report66NOuRISHING OuR EMPLOyEES
Engagement in Action
Below are just a few examples of how the Campbell workforce around the world continues to be engaged:
Campbell employees have long been engaged in efforts to develop new products that deliver 
against consumer needs and to identify ways to improve how we work. In 2009, ideaNET, a new 
online community, was launched. Here, Campbell employees in the U.S. and Canada can post ideas for improving Campbell’s business and workplace and share their thoughts on ideas posted by others. ideaNET combines individual entrepreneurship with social networking. When an employee submits an idea, it is posted to an open “Idea Board” where other employees can share their  comments and help build upon the concept. 
To promote Campbell’s Creations, a line of soups featuring the flavors and textures of homemade 
soups, Campbell Canada launched a commercial filmed like a home movie  — complete with an 
unsteady camera. The 30-second spot features Alison Hastings, Product Developer adding 
ingredients to a pot of soup in the Campbell’s Test Kitchen and Hilton Cummings, Linesman, 
filling Team A  explaining in the voice-over that Alison is making this Campbell soup more like 
homemade, with less salt and more herbs and spices. The employee-actors were selected through a “Souper Star Search” at the Toronto plant, where applicants were asked to explain why they are proud of their role in making Campbell’s soups and proud to serve the soups to their families. 
Campbell’s daily, online publication provides high-quality news that is candid, interesting  
and timely. 
Recent features have included an update from the CEO on Campbell’s business performance, a 
story on highly engaged teams, a summary of our new products in Canada, a report on a fund-raiser for the March of Dimes, and an article highlighting the culture and traditions of the many American Indian employees at our Maxton, North Carolina, plant. 
The publication reaches 7,600 employees, and a recent online survey suggests that 90% read  
it regularly.
AuTHENTIC ADvERTISING
CAMPBELL TODA yEMPLOyEES POWERING INNOv ATIONCampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report67NOuRISHING OuR EMPLOyEES
The Employee Forums, held each quarter, give employees the opportunity to hear directly from the 
CEO and other senior leaders on Campbell’s strategies and financial performance. The sessions, 
which occur shortly after each earnings release, also include business unit profiles, employee  recognition, and updates on community service. The forums are held live at World Headquarters and are broadcast to approximately 20 company sites worldwide. The replay is shared with our top 349 leaders for further distribution.
The Pepperidge Farm Innovation Fair is an opportunity for employees across the company to 
submit their best and brightest ideas for new product creations. This year, entrants were asked to focus their ideas on Goldfish, the iconic snack cracker. Employees from Pepperidge Farm head-quarters, the company’s Bloomfield, Connecticut, bakery, Arnott’s in Australia, and Campbell WHQ submitted over 200 product and packaging concepts and presented them at Pepperidge Farm’s Norwalk event. At the fair, attendees could see and taste the results of ideas before voting for their favorites. 
Design Manager Brian Klecatsky was one of more than 250 fair attendees. “It was energizing to 
feel the excitement and the pride people had in their ideas,” he said. “I think that spirit and energy is part of what defines our unique culture.” 
EMPLOyEE fORuMS
PEPPERIDGE fARM INNOv ATION fAIRCampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report68NOuRISHING OuR EMPLOyEES
Recognition Programs  
Campbell celebrates the hard work, dedication, and accomplishments of our employees throughout the year through several 
formal and informal recognition programs: 
•	The Extraordinary Performance Awards (EPAs) is our premier annual recognition event . Each year, more than 40 awards are  
presented to teams and individuals whose outstanding achievements support Campbell’s success model, mission, and seven 
core strategies . As part of the ceremony, two special awards are granted:
– Ambassador of Excellence Award recognizes individual(s) among Campbell’s administrative assistants who have demon-
strated outstanding leadership and professional excellence . 
– Dr. John T. Dorrance Award  recognizes outstanding business results and breakthrough thinking . This award,  
established in 1994, is the most prestigious honor bestowed upon a business team and honors exemplary performance  
in the marketplace . 
Based on employee surveys, the EPAs are highly motivational for winners and attendees alike . Following the ceremony,  
employees attend a reception featuring Campbell products .
Though	the	signature	event	is	held	in	Camden,	New	Jersey,	employees	come	from	all	parts	of	the	world	to	be	recognized	
and to congratulate their fellow colleagues . And, new in FY2009, an international version of the EPAs was held in Australia 
with 17 teams being recognized . 
•	you Make a Difference (MAD) Awards  make recognizing a co-worker easy  . The awards — quick and personal in nature — 
are designed to recognize someone for achievements that go beyond day-to-day job requirements . Any employee can 
nominate another employee . Approximately 10,000 MAD awards have been presented since FY2007 . 
•	Influence With Honor Awards recognize three or four top leaders each year during Campbell’s Global Leadership  
Meeting . These are people who exemplify our leadership model and are personally selected by our CEO for their character, 
competence, and teamwork . 
Other forms of recognition are also presented within our  
different business units and locations, including Pepperidge Farm, 
Campbell Canada, and North America Foodservice . For example, 
Merit Awards are presented to Campbell Sales Company  
employees for their accomplishments in winning in the marketplace and in the workplace, and for demonstrating leadership,  
commitment, teamwork, tenacity, and agility  . In addition to  
individual contributors, one sales team is also recognized as  
“Team of the Year” for its collective effort .  RECOGNIzING OuR ACHIEvEMENTS
Team of the Year: Team Kroger, led by team leader Gerald Hulett (front, holding the award), was named Team of the Year at the National Sales Meeting’s Merit Awards ceremony.Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report69NOuRISHING OuR EMPLOyEES
Extraordinary Workplace
Campbell understands that employees want to be treated respectfully, have the 
opportunity to progress in their careers, and have access to benefits that will help them maintain or enhance their overall wellness — physically, mentally, and financially.
Recognizing that “Winning in the Workplace” is essential to our success as a business, we continuously strive to meet the needs 
of our employees and create an extraordinary workplace by: 
•	Upholding	Our	Promise:	“People	Valuing	Campbell,	Campbell	Valuing	People”
•	Providing	competitive	compensation	and	benefits
•	Giving	employees	the	resources	required	to	do	their	jobs	well
•	Empowering	employees	to	help	shape	our	workplace	and	business	
•	Recruiting,	cultivating,	and	retaining	employees	who	make	a	measurable	difference
•	Building	a	diverse	and	inclusive	environment	where	all	employees	are	encouraged	to	grow,	personally	and	professionally
•	Offering	work/life	flexibility	that	helps	employees	balance	work	with	personal	interests	and	responsibilities
Each year we measure employee engagement to gauge the success of our workplace initiatives . Our employees’ response has 
been inspiring . In the past several years, our employee engagement scores have risen meaningfully each year, and are now 
among the highest in the food industry and beyond .
Compensation 
Campbell’s compensation philosophy supports our Success Model . The foundation  
of the model — “Winning in the Workplace” — recognizes that our people drive  
profitability and our competitive advantage . 
We understand that paying competitive wages is critical to attracting and retaining  
the talent we need to build a company that can produce extraordinary results and 
compete over the long term .
Our compensation program is market-based and performance-driven:
•		Campbell	conducts	a	comprehensive	market	analysis	each	year	to	ensure	our	  
compensation programs are competitive with the appropriate set of peer companies .  
•		Employee	performance	is	evaluated	as	part	of	Campbell’s	annual	Performance	
Management process . Consistent with the Campbell Leadership Model, employees 
are evaluated and rewarded based both on what they do (results they create) and 
how they do it (behaviors they demonstrate) . 
Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report70NOuRISHING OuR EMPLOyEES
Health and Wellness 
Wellness is important when it comes to our products and our people . Campbell benefit programs represent a significant  
investment in our employees and their families . Given our global population, we offer a range of competitive programs unique 
to our varying countries and locations that are aligned with state and local regulations . 
We take a holistic approach to wellness that encompasses physical health, mental well-being, and financial security now and in 
the future . 
WELLNESS
YOUR 
FUTUREYOUR 
HEAL TH
YOUR 
LIFEYOUR 
FINANCESyOuR HEALTH 
Being fit, eating right, and practicing screen-
ing and prevention can help employees save money on healthcare expenses. To help, Campbell provides 100% coverage for preven-tive care under most of our U.S. medical plan options, on-site fitness centers, global fitness center discounts, nutritional resources, worksite wellness, and more. Campbell also brings our commitment to healthy food to the workplace by subsidizing the cost of employee meals in our cafeterias, with greater subsidies for healthier and vegetarian options, and by clearly communicating nutritional content. Many of our global locations also offer employees free cooking education around health and wellness.
yOuR fINANCES
Campbell offers a 401(k) plan to U.S. employ-
ees. Through automatic payroll deductions, U.S. employees may contribute up to 50% of eligible pay up to the annual IRS limits. To help increase savings, after one year of service, Campbell matches 60 cents on every $1 an employee contributes, up to 5% of the employee’s pay.
yOuR fuTuRE
Campbell knows that the choices employees 
make today regarding their health and finances will have a long-term impact on them and their families. To help, Campbell is committed to continually educating employees about what’s available and how to maximize participation in our programs so they can achieve their health and retirement savings goals.
yOuR LIfE
Less stress and more overall work/life flexibility 
can help increase employees’ general well-being and increase productivity at work and at home. To help, Campbell offers stress management resources, as well as flexible work arrangements.Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report71NOuRISHING OuR EMPLOyEES
u.S. Program Highlights
Campbell pays most of the cost for our U .S . healthcare offerings and makes significant contributions to a full menu of wellness, 
work/life, retirement, and income protection programs . We also review our plans regularly to ensure that our benefits package is 
in line with our competitive market .
In 2009, Campbell was honored by the National Business Group on Health as one of the nation’s leading corporations for  
innovative programs promoting a healthy workplace and for helping its employees and their families make better choices about 
their health and well-being . Our broad range of U .S . programs and resources includes: 
•	Medical Decision Support (MDSTM): This high-touch service provides comprehensive, objective and personalized information 
about diagnoses and treatment options for over 60 medical conditions .
•	Health Station Tour: Employees participate in voluntary on-site biometric screenings and health education counseling, with 
referrals and enrollment in appropriate wellness programs . 
•	Online Health Assessment: Employees and their spouses can complete an online questionnaire about their health habits that provides them with a confidential, personalized analysis of current health status and risks, which they are encouraged to 
share with their physicians . 
•	free & Clear: Employees and eligible dependents may enroll in this free smoking-cessation program, which includes 
Nicotine Replacement Therapy if appropriate, once every 12 months .
•	Worksite Wellness Programs: Free flu shots, walking programs, healthy cooking demonstrations with guest chefs, and 
healthier food options in our company cafeterias and vending machines are available . 
•	 fitness Centers: On-site fitness centers are available at a number 
of locations, including World Headquarters in Camden, Campbell 
Canada, and some plant locations . Fitness center discounts are 
offered to all U .S . employees .
•	 your Life Resources:  This confidential round-the-clock service  
provides employees and their families with support and counseling, as well as resources for many topics including parenting, work-related situations, legal and financial issues, and substance abuse  
or self-improvement .“ More than ever, a healthy workforce is  
critical to helping America’s large employers compete in the global marketplace.  Campbell is to be applauded for making health and wellness an integral part of their work-
place.” HELEN DARLING , 
President of the National Business Group on Health Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report72NOuRISHING OuR EMPLOyEES
Measuring Our Success
We believe an important indicator of program success is the level of employee satisfaction with the programs, in addition to 
improvements in behavior, health outcomes, clinical performance indicators, and medical decision-making . We have seen 
impressive outcomes for many of our U .S . health and wellness programs:
•	1,685	employees	have	used	MDS™	services	since	FY2006.	88%	of	survey	respondents	indicate	this	service	helped	them	
become more involved in their care, while 76% said it improved their communications with doctors . 
•	48%	of	eligible	employees	received	flu	shots	in	FY2009.
•	1,932	employees	completed	the	online	health	assessment	in	FY2009.
•	1,255	employees	participated	in	our	2009	Health	Station	Tour,	with	95%	of	on-site	screening	participants	indicating	that	they	
felt more motivated to take health improvement action . 
•	Aetna’s	MedQuery™	program	provided	wellness	and	quality	of	care	information	to	over	6,500	participants,	resulting	in	a	
healthcare	plan	savings	of	approximately	$10	per	employee	per	month.	
•	69%	of	participants	enrolled	in	our	Lifestyle	Management	program	have	improved	or	eliminated	moderate	health	risks.	
•	Between	November	2005	and	November	2009,	1,302	people	enrolled	in	our	tobacco-cessation	program,	with	a	quit	rate	of	
44 .4% . According to a survey, 93 .8% of participants were happy with the results . 
 
JAN KELLY talks about Wellness at Campbell
Campbell strives to help employees become and stay healthy through its award-winning wellness program. We believe 
that a healthy workforce doesn’t just mean that employees are free from illness, but that they’re engaged in their work and moving toward a better state of being and vitality. 
One unique Campbell-provided resource is the Medical Decision Support (MDS™) program. Upon diagnosis of  
certain conditions, employees and their family members can speak with a doctor from a leading medical school and/or a medical researcher about their condition. As a follow-up, they receive a personalized information packet, as well as unlimited access to these live resources.
The program was recently expanded to cover additional health conditions (e.g., obesity, autism) and to include addi-
tional resources (e.g., quality of care evaluation tools, research desk for any medical condition). Surveys show that 100% of Campbell employees who used these services would recommend them to others.
“Helping employees improve their health is good for them, and good for Campbell as well,” said Jan Kelly, Director  
of U.S. Health and Welfare Programs. “Studies show that companies can achieve a $1 to $2 return on every dollar  spent on a comprehensive employee wellness program. Not only can this investment help Campbell control costs as  healthcare prices increase, but it can provide immeasurable benefits as employees move toward a better state of health.”
Campbell formed a global Flu Response Team in light of growing concerns regarding H1N1 . The team includes  
representatives from Human Resources, Occupational Health, Security, Legal, Public Affairs, Risk Management, 
Information Technology, Supply Chain, and Research and Development . As part of the team’s overall strategy, a global 
network of “Flu Coordinators” was established and trained, and a dedicated site for employees was created for the latest 
company guidelines on the flu, along with other helpful tools and links, including a self-monitoring screening tool .PANDEMIC PLANNINGCampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report73NOuRISHING OuR EMPLOyEES
Workplace Wellness in Action
We believe in the importance of making wellness personal and relevant for employees . A few key events include:
In support of our partnership with the American Heart Association and to pr omote heart health 
in the workplace, we launched our company-wide Go Red campaign in 2006. Each February , 
workplace activities are based on four pillars — Engage, Educate, Move, and Go Red — and are 
designed to address heart disease risks. Activities include:
• The Annual AdDRESS Your Heart employee fashion show. Employees design their own costumes 
based on the iconic Campbell logo and brands to promote heart health
• Health screenings, lectures, and Go Red walks to promote physical activity
• Heart healthy recipe contest and discussions on healthy eating
• Organized walking tours and other exercise events
This four-week program for employees in the U.S. and Canada encourages employees to walk at least 10,000 steps a day. Our CEO, Doug Conant, acts as a program champion by being visible everyday during his workplace walks and challenging other employees to participate as well. 
More than 1,500 Campbell colleagues in the U.S. and Canada participated in the program last year. 
Average steps per day increased from a baseline of 8,198 to 10,840 after the four-week program.
This annual award recognizes employees making and sustaining healthy lifestyle changes. Previous 
winners have demonstrated multiple lifestyle changes achieved in a healthy way. 
19 sites participated in the 2009 Lifestyle Change Award program and generated 68 nominees. Each site selects its own winner. A cross-functional team narrows the list to five finalists, who are  
presented to the Executive Sponsors for selection of three North American Winners. All winners receive a commemorative plaque and the final three winners receive a cash prize and recognition  during the AdDRESS Your Heart employee fashion show.
During Campbell’s de Mexico’s Health & Safety Fairs, employees and their families participate in 
free health screenings and information sessions. This annual event at the Villagran plant is spon-sored by local health related companies, government institutions and Campbell medical personnel.
During the fair, attendees receive free services and screenings, including: 
• Cholesterol, blood pressure, and glucose screenings
• Pap tests
• Dental hygiene visits
• Vision testing, including glaucoma screening
• Body composition evaluation
Based on the results, representatives from the sponsors help employees develop a personal health 
improvement plan. 
10K-A-DAY CHALLENGE
LIfESTyLE CHANGE AWARD
fAMIL y INvOL vEMENTGO RED fOR HEART HEALTHCampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report74NOuRISHING OuR EMPLOyEES
Work/Life flexibility 
Campbell understands the pressures and challenges our employees face as they balance work with personal interests and 
responsibilities . We also understand that our employees are better able to meet the demands of the business when their  
personal needs are being met . 
When it comes to work/life flexibility, we believe a “one-size-fits-all” approach simply won’t do . Our programs are designed to 
recognize that not all employees are the same and that their needs may change over time . Our programs also reflect country 
and local differences . 
In response to employee needs, Campbell offers a range of flexible work arrangements, including telecommuting, flex-time, 
job-share, and reduced and compressed work weeks . 
Depending on an employee’s role and location, here is a sample of the work/life flexibility programs and benefits that may  
be available:
•		Adoption	assistance
•		Summer	hours	—	employees	work	extra	time	Monday	–Thursday	  
and head out early on Fridays 
•		On-site	seminars,	fairs,	and	workshops	on	such	topics	as	stress,	  
nutrition, and safety 
•	Company	store	and	cafeteria	
•	Credit	Union	with	ATM	
•		Fitness	facilities,	including	personal	training	and	group	exercise	
classes, plus discount memberships on a network of commercial  
fitness centers 
•		Access	to	free	counseling	services	on	a	variety	of	personal	and	  
work/life issues 
•	Paid	personal	days,	vacation	days,	and	holidays	
•	Unpaid	personal	leave
•	Lactation	rooms	for	nursing	mothers	
An on-site Family Center at our World 
Headquarters provides day care and a full 
kindergarten program . Its “School’s Out” 
program helps any employee with children 
age 6 to 12 to cover those days when schools are closed for teacher conferences, snow 
days, etc . 
A Summer Fun program also offers  educational programs for employees’  
children ages 6 to 12 . 
All participating children are enrolled in our KidFit program offered through a partnership 
with the WHO Health and Fitness Center  .CAMPBELL KIDSCampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report75NOuRISHING OuR EMPLOyEES
Training and Development
Campbell is committed to creating a learning culture that enables each employee to maximize his or her individual potential 
and contributions . Campbell is also committed to helping employees take charge of their own development in ways that are 
meaningful to them and relevant to their roles . 
For example, the Organization Resource Planning (ORP) process provides guidance on employees’ strengths, development 
needs, and career advancement opportunities . Outcomes of the process include customized individual development plans, 
placement on succession plans, talent moves (including sharing talent globally), and fast-tracking high-performing/high-  
potential employees . Beginning this year, employees will work with their managers to integrate CSR and sustainability  
performance measures into their individual development plans . 
We also provide a variety of programs to support employees’ individual development organized in three key skills areas:
•	Leadership: supervising employees, managing teams, and overall leadership
•	functional : building skills and competencies specific to their particular role, business, and/or function
•	Individual: enhancing more general/personal skills as well as overall knowledge of the organization
Campbell university
Campbell University offers classroom-based courses, webinars, podcasts, computer-
based training, and tools designed to build personal effectiveness, functional, and 
management skills . This combined learning approach is designed to meet the needs 
of Campbell’s diverse global workforce by empowering each employee to choose the 
learning method best suited to his or her needs .
The Campbell University website, available to all employees, provides resources ranging from the fundamentals of being a  high-performing manager to building high-performing teams, establishing strategies, managing meetings effectively, and  
building core functional skills and know-how  . 
Key Campbell development programs include:
•	STARS (Strategic Thinking and Analysis for the Right Solution) is a disciplined, yet highly flexible, approach to  
problem-solving and decision-making . It provides key decision-makers with a common approach and language for business 
planning, project management, and addressing unexpected problems and opportunities as they occur  . 544 employees  
completed STARS training in FY2008 and FY2009 . 
•	front-Line Leadership Development Program  helps address the development needs of Campbell’s manufacturing  
supervisors and other front-line leaders in the U .S . and Canada . This training is customized for Supply Chain leaders,  
providing tools and leadership training as well as a forum for manufacturing supervisors to come together, build skills,  
and share insights . 185 manufacturing supervisors completed this training in FY2008 and FY2009 .
•	CEO Institute  is a unique, two-year program for our highest-performing leaders with outstanding potential . CEO Doug 
Conant sponsors this intensely personal experience and drives the participants to develop a clear and compelling leadership 
philosophy that is well-grounded in their personal principles and aligned with the organization’s values and expectations . 
Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report76NOuRISHING OuR EMPLOyEES
Campbell offers Tuition Assistance to employees at many locations, helping to defray the cost of tuition and associated 
expenses	for	eligible	employees	who	successfully	complete	courses	at	accredited	schools.	Campbell	provided	$1.4	million	
worldwide in tuition assistance in FY2009 .
Campbell also supports development through relationship- and feedback-based activities:
•	Mentoring Program: Pairs high-performing employees with executives for 12-month mentor-mentee relationships
•	Mentor Circles: Two executives partner to provide coaching, feedback, and development opportunities to groups of up to 
12 entry- to mid-level employees, including women and people of color  .
•	Self-managed mentoring: Various resources are available to employees at all levels . 
Finally, Campbell believes that great learning and knowledge-sharing happens through on-the-job experience, including global 
assignments . Campbell currently has employees on expatriate assignments outside their home countries in Australia, Russia, 
China, Belgium, Malaysia, Indonesia, and the U .S . Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report77NOuRISHING OuR EMPLOyEES
Diversity and Inclusion
Creating and marketing products effectively to an increasingly diverse world requires 
a strong commitment to diversity in every aspect of our business. Our company-wide diversity efforts encourage all employees to bring their uniqueness and individuality to work every day.
We believe that building a diverse and inclusive culture is critical to winning in the workplace, marketplace, and in the  
community  . That is why our Diversity and Inclusion strategy (illustrated below) closely aligns with the Campbell Success Model . 
Today, Campbell has an overall representation of 40% women and 34% people of color in the U .S . While we have also seen an 
increase in representation of women and people of color in the executive ranks, we continue to be challenged with retaining 
diverse employees at lower levels of management . Improving in this area is a priority across our organization, brought to life 
through our active recruiting with associations (e .g ., Consortium, Reaching Out MBA, Costco Minority Scholars) .
GLOBAL DIVERSITY AND
INCLUSION STRATEGYMARKETPLACE
WORKPLACE COMMUNITYDIVERSITY IN
THE MARKETPLACE
CULTURAL 
INTELLIGENCEDIVERSITY & 
INCLUSION LEADER
While employee representation is important, we believe it is only the foundation for a dynamically diverse and inclusive  
environment . To build on this foundation, company-wide initiatives are executed with five goals in mind: 
1. firmly establish leadership support and accountability: Senior leaders are responsible for participating in at least one 
diversity and inclusion training session and for leading a diversity and inclusion activity within the organization . Each Business 
Resource Affinity Network (BRAN) has an executive sponsor and senior leaders participate in activities such as the Diversity 
Book Club . 
2. Link diversity and inclusion to performance management: Employees at all levels must identify and reach a diversity and 
inclusion objective, documented on their performance review form, each year  . They can participate in any activity that helps 
to create, manage, value, or leverage a diverse workforce (e .g ., organizing a diversity-focused teambuilding activity, seeking 
out female or minority-owned suppliers) . Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report78NOuRISHING OuR EMPLOyEES
3. Integrate diversity and inclusion into talent management: Recruiting, developing, and retaining women and people of 
color is a priority for our business . 
4. Build diversity and inclusion into business practices: Our supplier diversity initiative has grown significantly since its  
inaugural year in 2006 with an increasing goal each year  . 
5. Educate and train to advance diversity and inclusion: All employees have access to online and classroom diversity and 
inclusion training, and may participate in educational events about diverse cultures . Our training offerings have expanded 
from one classroom-based training session in FY2006 to four classroom-based courses and an eLearning class that is adapted 
for U .S . and international audiences . U .S . participation in diversity and inclusion training sessions increased from 1,040 in 
FY2006 to 2,965 in FY2009 . 
Winning with Women
Campbell received the 2010 Catalyst Award for our success in advancing women to leadership roles, 
a critical part of the company’s overall workplace and marketplace transformation . The annual Catalyst 
Award honors exceptional initiatives from companies and firms that demonstrate the strong business 
case supporting women’s advancement to leadership and positions of influence by employing best 
practices around diversity, inclusion, and employee engagement . 
Campbell was recognized for its “Winning in the Workplace, Winning in the Marketplace, Winning with Women” submission, which used employee engagement, knowledge sharing, diversity and inclusion, and innovation to support the company’s  
overall transformation plan . The award was based on many factors, including strong improvements from 2005–2009 in the  
following areas: 
•	Women’s	representation	on	the	Board	of	Directors	grew	to	20%	from	13%.
•	Women	in	executive	roles	grew	to	25%	from	21%.
•	In	manufacturing	roles,	the	percentage	of	women	plant	directors	and	managers	increased	to	21%	from	14%.	
•	Women	play	a	significant	role	in	leading	key	functions	including	Legal	and	Governmental	Affairs,	Human	Resources,	and	
Diversity and Inclusion . Women also have made significant contributions in Marketing and Product Development . 
“Campbell’s strives to create a better, more inclusive, more successful culture for all of our employees,” says CEO Doug 
Conant . “Catalyst’s recognition of our progress affirms that we are heading in the right direction, but I am confident that 
we can do even more.”
Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report79NOuRISHING OuR EMPLOyEES
Diversity and Inclusion in Action 
While our Diversity and Inclusion efforts originally began in the U .S ., over the last several years, we’ve seen these efforts expand 
across the globe . A few examples include:
When Campbell hosted Chinese government officials at its World Headquarters in summer 2009, 
the Asian Network of Campbell stepped forward to assist.
Four employees fluent in Mandarin served as translators during the visit of China Inspection and 
Quarantine (CIQ) agency representatives. Their skills were crucial in facilitating this mutually  beneficial visit — Campbell promoted Swanson broth to influential members of this emerging  market while the CIQ learned more about U.S. food safety practices. 
 The Diversity Book Club provides a forum for employees to discuss diversity issues and to learn 
from their colleagues’ perspectives. The Book Club has over 500 employees at multiple locations. Groups of approximately 15 employees, which often include senior leaders and even CEO Doug Conant, meet monthly to discuss a book focused on diversity in the workplace. Discussions are guided by Campbell employees who volunteer to facilitate.
The Al Maa’idah Mosque was opened in Indonesia to accommodate employees’ religious on-site 
needs. The Mosque, built in 2008, can accommodate 230 people.
Internally and externally we are gaining recognition for our work to build an extraordinarily diverse 
and inclusive culture.
Doug Conant’s work in this area was recognized in 2008 by Diversity Best Practices with the CEO 
Leadership Award.
DIvERSITY BOOK CLUB OPENS THE DIALOGUE
ON-SITE MOSQUE AT INDONESIA PLANT
AWARD-WINNING EffORTSASIAN NETWORK EMPLOYEES SUPPORT BUSINESS PROMOTIONCampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report80NOuRISHING OuR EMPLOyEES
Business Resource Affinity Networks (BRANs)
While open to all employees, BRANs provide a valuable forum for employees from similar backgrounds and interests to 
network, develop professionally, promote cultural awareness, encourage community involvement, and provide mutual sup-
port . The networks also help us attract and retain a diverse group of employees and enhance understanding of the consumer 
marketplace .
A member of the CEO’s Executive Leadership Team serves as a sponsor for each of the following BRANs:
Campbell African American Network: Positively impact Campbell’s business results, employee engagement, and employee retention by empowering, nurturing, building a 
culture of connectedness, and providing a forum to elevate visibility  .
Asian Network of Campbell: Help Campbell meet the needs of consumers and  
stakeholders by leveraging the diversity of its Asian community  . 
Hispanic Network de Campbell: Build organizational vitality and promote excellence by fostering an environment that acknowledges and leverages the talents, perspectives, and 
leadership of Hispanic employees .  
 
Our Pride Employee Network: Create a safe community for our lesbian, gay, bisexual, or 
transgender employees and their friends so they can share experiences, learn from, and 
support each other  .
The Bridge: Build an adaptive workplace which fosters trusted cross-functional and  
generational partnerships as a means to develop its talents and fuel innovation .  
Women of Campbell: Enable all women of Campbell to achieve and demonstrate their full 
potential so that the company can achieve sustainably good performance .  
 
Global American Indian/Aboriginal Network: To promote excellence by fostering an  
environment that acknowledges and leverages the talents, perspectives, and leadership  of American Indian employees and act as an information and heritage resource for American 
Indian employees and their supporters . This network was established in our Maxton, North 
Carolina, location, where 30 percent of its more than 850 employees are  
of American Indian descent .
Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report81NOuRISHING OuR EMPLOyEES
Supplier Diversity
To effectively respond to today’s diverse marketplace, we must strive for diversity not only among our employees and  
consumers, but also in our supplier base . Our U .S . supplier diversity mission is to grant diverse suppliers equal access to  
potential business opportunities in an effort to strengthen our supplier base and reflect the markets we serve .
These relationships strengthen our competitive position while contributing to our market share, our total shareholder return, 
and to the quality of life in the communities where we live and work . Simply stated, there is no other way for us to effectively 
create and market consumer food products in an increasingly multicultural world . We firmly believe that diverse suppliers have a 
positive impact on our business, consumers, and community  .
Spending with Diverse Suppliers
Since the program’s inaugural year in FY2006, we have significantly increased our annual spending with women and minority-
owned	businesses.	Our	goal	for	FY2010	is	to	spend	$155	million	with	diverse	suppliers.
 
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010$91$129$136$140$155SPENDING WITH DIVERSE 
SUPPLIERS(in millions)
Since the program’s inaugural year in 
FY2006, we have significantly increased our annual spending with women and minority-owned businesses. Our goal for FY2010 is to spend $155 million with diverse suppliers.Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report82NOuRISHING OuR EMPLOyEES
Safety
Campbell aspires to reach lost-time and injury rates of zero, and continues to drive 
performance to eliminate potential risks in the workplace.
Campbell’s Global Safety Leadership Team (GSLT) was created in 2003 to develop and implement a Global Safety Strategic Plan 
with the ultimate goal of providing a safe and injury-free workplace . This team, along with cross-functional safety committees at 
each location, helps implement standardized safety practices across the company and facilitate the sharing of best practices to 
improve overall safety  . 
We aggressively and thoroughly evaluate workplace incidents, review our practices and take proactive measures to address 
emerging issues . Our efforts have led to a 59% reduction in lost workday injury rates over the past three fiscal years at our  
facilities . Our safety performance has also exceeded food industry benchmarks for the past three years (illustrated below) . 
2007 2008 20094.3
3.1
2.76RECORDABLE RATE OF INJURY
This rate measures significant work-
related injuries and illnesses that result in days away from work, medical care (other than first-aid), or restricted work activity.
Food industry recordable rate of injury 
benchmark: 6.2.Industry Sector Benchmark: 6.2
Benchmark is from Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor. 2008 results, published in 2009Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report83NOuRISHING OuR EMPLOyEES
Beyond tracking and improving injuries and illnesses, we believe it is important to recognize our employees as they reach 
important safety milestones .
Campbell has implemented the Safety Flag Program to recognize key safety milestones at our locations . This program honors 
Campbell facilities where safety systems have kept all employees safe from lost-time injuries on the job for at least one year  
or one million work hours . The location is given a flag to display at their plant or facility when they reach this milestone .
Today, 20 of Campbell’s more than 30 sites proudly fly the Safety Flag, many with gold Campbell “C”s added for reaching  
additional million-hour milestones . Special flags are given to plants that have experienced no lost-time incidents (LTIs) . 
Campbell’s Global Safety Excellence Award recognizes up to three Campbell facilities each year for their ongoing efforts to 
instill a concern for workplace safety into their cultures . Plants are evaluated based on a number of criteria, including: 
1. Demonstrated safety results
2. Sustained safety systems
3. Achieving continued injury reduction
4. Safety leadership
5. Integration of safety systems
6. Employee ownership of safety efforts
Winning	plants	are	recognized	each	year	in	June,	National	Safety	Month.	Past	winners	include	the	Pepperidge	Farm	plant	in	
Willard, Ohio, the Campbell plant in Utrecht, the Netherlands, and the Campbell plant in Maxton, North Carolina .2007 2008 2009.61
.46 .33Industry Sector Benchmark: 4.0TOTAL LOST TIME 
INJURY RATE
A lost-time injury is a work-related 
injury or illness that results in missed or restricted days of work.
Food Total Lost Time Injury Rate 
Benchmark: 4.0
Benchmark is from Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor. 2008 results, published in 2009Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report84NOuRISHING OuR EMPLOyEES
Recognition
Campbell has received both national and local recognition for our workplace efforts, 
including our efforts to win with women, celebrate diversity, drive higher levels of engagement, and provide employees with valuable health and wellness resources.
Diversity Recognition 
•	2008	Walmart	Stores,	Inc.	“Martin	Luther	King	Jr.	Visionary	Award”	award	for	our	“ability	to	foster	an	environment	where	all	
people have equal access to opportunities in the workplace, the community and the world”
•	One	of	the	top	100	companies	to	work	for	by	Savoy	Professionals,	a	leading	media	advocate	for	diversity	in	corporate	
America 
Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report
Nourishing Our PlanetCampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR ReportIN THIS SECTION OuR 2020 GOALS
Cut our environmental footprint in half
Cut the environmental footprint of our product portfo-
lio in half, as measured by water use and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions per tonne of product produced
Reduce energy needs and seek greener 
energy sources
Reduce energy use by 35% per tonne of product 
produced and source 40% of the energy used by the company from renewable or alternative energy sources
Recycle as much waste as possible
Recycle 95% of waste generated, on a global basis
Advance sustainable packaging principles
Deliver 75% of global packaging from sustainable materials (renewable, recyclable, or from recycled content)
Promote more sustainable agriculture
Reduce water use by 20% and energy use by 30% per tonne in our top five agricultural ingredients
Our deep commitment to 
environmental stewardship has 
matured over our 140-year history to a set of strategic business initiatives that deliver innovation in manufacturing, sustainable packaging, agriculture, and logistics.Nourishing Our Planet
OvER THE P AST yEAR, WE ...
•	Eliminated	more	than	3.5	million	pounds	of	steel	
and 1 million pounds of fiber while saving more 
than	$4.5	million	in	packaging	costs
•	Recycled	more	than	84%	of	waste	generated
•	Reduced	water	use	in	food	production	by	more	
than 9% 
•	Established	a	set	of	Sustainable	Packaging	
Principles
•	Invested	more	than	$6	million	in	environmental	
sustainability projects
Overview
Commitment, Approach, 
and Management of Environmental Sustainability at Campbell
Resource Stewardship 
in Our Operations
Environmental resource 
management strategy, focus areas, and results
Resource Stewardship 
in Action
Environmental initiatives and 
results at Campbell plants and facilities world-wide
Sustainable Packaging
Campbell’s sustainable  packaging guidelines, innovation, and marketplace resultsSustainable Agriculture
Working with farmers and applying comprehensive  agricultural science to advance the state of sustain-able agriculture
Supply Chain, Logistics 
and Transportation
Advancing sustainability in 
our supply chain and logistics optimization that drives improved environmental performance
Recognition
External acknowledgment of Campbell’s environmental stewardship and manage-ment approachCampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report87NOuRISHING OuR PLANET
Overview
Campbell has long had a deep commitment to stewardship of the environment and the 
resources we use in the production of our food and beverage products. 
What started as respect for our communities and agricultural partners has matured over the course of our 140-year history to a 
strategic set of business initiatives that not only seek to manage compliance, cost, and efficiency, but also to deliver innovation 
in resource management, sustainable packaging, agriculture, and logistics . 
We have a global environmental management system (EMS) that applies to the environmental impact of our more than  
30 manufacturing facilities . To integrate environmental programs through all business operations worldwide, our management 
system sets company-wide goals for energy and water conservation as well as waste management and reduction . 
We perform environmental audits of all worldwide operations according to the protocol established by the International  
Audit Protocol Consortium (IAPC) . Audit intervals are based on historical trends and operational challenges and strengths .  
We take a precautionary approach to the environment by seeking to apply processes or practices with less environmental 
impact when possible .
Campbell is an active member of many different groups around the world working to advance more sustainable operations, 
supply chains, and products . Campbell experts from different disciplines participate in these groups based on the particular 
focus area from engineering, to packaging, to sustainable agriculture . Campbell is a member of the Sustainability Consortium . 
The Sustainability Consortium brings together independent scientists and engineers from leading academic research institutions around the world and other leading researchers from the NGO, governmental, and industrial sectors to build a scientific founda-
tion that drives innovation to improve consumer product sustainability  .
In addition to lending our expertise to broader sector efforts, we continue to investigate lifecycle assessment (LCA) opportuni-
ties within our own product lines . We hope to expand on this work in the future .
To integrate environmental programs through all business operations worldwide, we have established long-term goals and  performance targets for energy and water conservation, waste management and reduction, sustainable packaging, and  
agricultural innovation .
Campbell Soup Company 2020 Environmental Sustainability Destination Goals
PrimaryCut the environmental footprint of our product portfolio in half (water and greenhouse gas [GHG] emissions/tonne product produced)
Supporting
•	Reduce	energy	use	by	35%,	and	source	40%	of	the	energy	used	by	the	company	from	renewable	or	alternative	energy	sources
•	Recycle	95%	of	waste	generated,	on	a	global	basis
•	Deliver	75%	of	global	packaging	from	sustainable	materials	(renewable,	recyclable,	or	from	recycled	content)
•	Obtain	50%	of	company	revenue	from	products	utilizing	packaging	with	an	improved	environmental	footprint	(material	  
reduction and/or substitution and supply chain efficiencies)
•	Reduce	water	use	by	20%	and	energy	use	by	30%	per	tonne	in	our	top-five	agricultural	ingredients
Relative reduction goals for energy use, water use, and waste recycling in our operations are based on a baseline year of 
FY2008 performance .Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report88NourishiNg our PlaNet
WATER USE
(GROSS 000 GAL.)WATER USE CU. METER  / 
TONNE FOOD 
PRODUCEDENERGY USE
(MMBTU)
ENERGY USE  (MMBTU)  / 
TONNE OF FOODPRODUCEDGREENHOUSE GAS 
(GHG)  
EMISSIONS (MMTCO2)GHG EMISSIONS (MMTCO2) /  
TONNE OF FOOD PRODUCED
SOLID WASTERECYCLED
 (%)WASTE DISPOSED
 (TONNES)  / 
TONNE OF FOODPRODUCEDCAPITAL INVESTMENTIN ENVIRONMENTALCOMPLIANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY
 ($MILL)2009
20087,050,749
7,829,3552009
20089.35
10.332009
200810,276,947
10,239,864
2009
20083.60
3.572009
2008879,084
899,5372009
20080.308
0.313
2009
200884.5
64*2009
20080.019
0.023*2009
200815.1
12.3MORE THAN
775
MILLION 
GALLONS 
OF WATER
SAVED
IN 20099.35
CU. METER OF 
WATER USED 
PER TONNE 
OF FOOD 
PRODUCED10,276,947
MMBTU
USED
GLOBALLY
3.60
MMBTU USED 
PER TONNE 
OF FOOD 
PRODUCEDMORE THAN
20,000
TONNESGHG 
REDUCED 
IN 2009 2%
REDUCED IN GHG EMITTEDPER TONNE OF FOOD
PRODUCED
84.5%
WASTE
RECYCLEDGLOBALLY0.019
TONNES OF WASTE DISPOSED PER TONNE OF FOOD PRODUCED15M
CAPITALINVESTMENTIN ENVIRON-MENTAL COMPLIANCE AND SUS-TAINABILITY
$
*  Waste Disposed and Recycled 
% for 2008 is result for U.S. only. Subsequent numbers represent global operations.Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report89NOuRISHING OuR PLANET
Resource Stewardship in Our Operations
Environmental resource management strategy, focus areas and results
Energy Management and Proactive Climate Actions
As a food company that relies on high-quality agricultural products, we must be aware of and be prepared operationally for the 
risks posed by climate change . We have completed a number of initiatives that have reduced our energy use and greenhouse 
gas emissions globally in the last two years . Examples of some of these energy conservation programs include reducing the 
electricity required for plant lighting by installing more energy-efficient systems, reducing fuel use by installing heat-recovery 
systems, and reducing water and steam demand by recycling water from the product cooling process .
We are continuing our long-standing efforts to reduce the amount of energy and  
water use per case of finished product . Teams of plant personnel have implemented 
strategies that have reduced energy requirements of our manufacturing process . 
Further modifications are being implemented to support this effort and drive future 
performance improvements . We now produce a case of soup with 19% less energy 
than we did 10 years ago . 
In August 2006, Campbell joined the U .S . Environmental Protection Agency Climate Leaders program, a national voluntary 
effort to reduce GHG emissions . As a Climate Leader partner, we have committed our energy conservation and GHG reduction 
program to:
•	Track	and	report	100%	of	the	emissions	from	facilities	and	operations	over	which	Campbell	has	control
•	Inventory	the	six	major	GHG	gases	and	report	progress	annually	based	on	the	EPA	protocols	and	guidance
•	Develop	a	corporate	GHG	inventory	management	plan	based	on	the	EPA	checklist	that	institutionalizes	the	inventory	process	
•	Reduce	our	GHG	emissions	from	our	U.S	operations	by	12%	per	case	of	product	produced	by	the	end	of	our	FY2010	versus	a	
FY2005 baseline
Over the past three years, we have implemented the Climate Leaders protocol to develop the systems needed to track our 
energy use and the resulting direct and indirect GHG emissions . These systems have been verified by the U .S . EPA as an  
accurate means of monitoring and tracking GHG emissions . The following charts outline the results achieved against the  
baseline year of FY2005:
CLIMATE LEADERS GHG EMISSIONS OPERATIONS IN THE uNITED STATES
(Tonnes CO 2 per 1,000 adjusted cases of product produced)
Campbell fiscal y ear GHG Emissions per 1,000 Adj. Cases
2005 4 .98
2006 4 .78
2007 4 .80
2008 4 .67
2009 4.65
Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report90NOuRISHING OuR PLANET
Beginning in FY2009, we began filing comprehensive energy, climate and carbon footprint performance metrics within the 
Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) framework . Campbell’s latest submission can be reviewed in detail at www  .cdproject .net/
en-US/Results/Pages/Company-Responses .aspx?company=170 1 .
Beginning in FY2008, we began to compile energy-use data for all worldwide operations . The following charts compare energy 
use at our worldwide facilities over the past two fiscal years:
TOTAL  ENERG y uSE — A LL WORLDWIDE  OPERATIONS  —  
COMBINED fuEL uSE AND ELECTRICITy
fy2008 fy2009
Global facilities 10,239,864 mmbtu 10,276,947 mmbtu
    North American Facilities 8,807,642 mmbtu 8,840,005 mmbtu
    International Facilities 1,432,222 mmbtu 1,436,942 mmbtu
Campbell fuel use and electricity use at our worldwide operations results in the generation of GHG emissions . The following 
outlines detailed GHG emissions from our worldwide operations:
GREENHOuSE GAS EMISSIONS — ALL WORLDWIDE OPERATIONS  (Metric tonnes CO 2)
fy2008 fy2009
Total Company Emissions 899,537 879,084
    Campbell USA 718,065 694,064
    International 181,472 185,020
Direct Emissions (Scope 1) 499,149 492,144
    Campbell USA 415,001 408,227
    International 84,148 83,917
Indirect Emissions (Scope 2) 400,388 386,940
    Campbell USA 303,064 285,837
    International 97,324 101,103
GREENHOuSE GAS EMISSIONS — ALL WORLDWIDE OPERATIONS  
(Tonnes CO 2 per metric tonne product produced)
fy2008 fy2009
Global facilities 0 .313 0.308
    Campbell USA 0 .319 0.318
    International 0 .292 0.276Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report91NOuRISHING OuR PLANET
Water Stewardship
Water is an integral component in the production of all food and beverages . At Campbell, we use water in the creation of  
many of our products, as well as for cleaning, cooking, and even vegetable transport within our plants . Maintaining a clean and 
reliable supply of water is essential both to the future of the company and the future of the communities in which we operate . 
All of our manufacturing plants have implemented water conservation measures and have established systems to ensure that 
the water used in our operations is appropriately cleaned and treated before it is returned to the environment . We use water to 
wash ingredients, cool finished products, satisfy our steam requirements, clean and sanitize our operations, and as an ingredient 
in our products . All Campbell operations provide wastewater treatment through the use of either a company-owned treatment 
system or through pretreatment prior to discharge to a municipal-owned treatment works . We apply a stewardship philosophy 
when it comes to water  . We seek to advance conservation across our enterprise, returning clean and appropriately treated water 
to our local communities following our use . The following chart summarizes our global water use over the past two fiscal years .
GLOBAL W ATER uSE (Cubic meters — M3)
fy2008 fy2009
Campbell Global Operations
    Water Use 29,637,240 26,689,905
    Water Use per tonne of food produced 10 .33 9.35
Waste Management
We apply a consistent approach to managing the waste generated in our offices and plant operations . We apply a hierarchy to 
our decision-making process of reduce, reuse, and recycle in our operations to minimize the impact our production has on the 
environment and help reduce our total costs . 
We implement strategic initiatives to reduce the various waste streams from our operations . Efforts such as reducing the amount 
of food manufacturing waste and reusing waste product as either an animal feed or compost has reduced the amount of waste 
we send to local landfills . Campbell offices around the world have supported our goal of reducing waste by implementing 
programs to minimize the use of office paper and recycle waste from our office areas . In Campbell World Headquarters alone, 
a consolidated effort has reduced office supply shipments by 50% and cut paper usage 12% from 2008 to 2009 . That translates 
into 40 fewer tons of paper used and more than 240,000 pounds of CO2 not released during the paper’s production, according 
to PaperCalculator  .org .
Material Reuse and Recycling
Closed-loop options and beneficial reuse principles guide our thinking when it comes to recycling materials . Part of this effort 
has included the diversion of off-specification product from local landfills to a facility that crushes the container, recycles the 
container, and reuses the food material as animal feed ingredients . 
We also continue to expand our comprehensive recycling programs as we strive to achieve our worldwide 95% recycle rate 
goal . The current programs to recycle food waste, corrugated paper, steel drums, office paper, plastic, fluorescent tubes,  
batteries, wood pallets, and scrap metal are all being evaluated to ensure maximum efficiency  . Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report92NOuRISHING OuR PLANET
In FY2009, Campbell generated 352,139 metric tonnes of solid waste from our worldwide operations . Of this material, 
297,502 metric tonnes were recycled and 54,637 were disposed of in local landfills or utilized as fuel for resource recovery  
facilities . Campbell’s worldwide recycle rate for 2009 was greater than 84% . The following chart outlines the amount of waste 
that was generated, recycled, and disposed from our worldwide operations during FY2009:
SOLID W ASTE GENERATION AND RECyCLING
FY 2008* fy 2009
Total Solid Waste Generated (Tonnes) 144,660 352,139
Material Recycled (Tonnes) 94,059 297,502
Material Disposed (Tonnes) 50,601 54,637
Global Recycle Rate % 65 84 .5
* U.S. only  
Note — Hazardous waste comprises <0.03% of total waste generated.Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report93NOuRISHING OuR PLANET
Resource Stewardship in Action
Environmental initiatives and results at Campbell plants and facilities worldwide
Campbell World Headquarters, Camden, New Jersey
In	Camden,	New	Jersey,	our	new	Campbell	Employee	Center	at	World	Headquarters	was	designed	from	the	ground	up,	  
utilizing the U .S . Green Building Council’s Leadership in Energy Efficient Design (LEED) criteria . Sustainable and energy-saving 
features of the building include: 
•	The	redevelopment	of	an	existing	urban	site	with	access	to	public	transportation
•	Bicycle	storage	and	changing	rooms	to	facilitate	alternative	transportation	options
•	Filtering	of	the	storm	water	runoff	from	the	site	to	help	keep	local	surface	water	sources	cleaner
•	A	roof	designed	to	reduce	the	local	heat	island	effect
•	Special	site	lighting	to	reduce	local	light	pollution
•	Water	management	design	features	to	reduce	water	use	by	more	than	20%
•	Enhanced	management	of	the	building’s	cooling	system’s	refrigerant	to	prevent	loss	and	further	improve	  
climate management 
•	Designed	daylight	harvesting	controls	to	optimize	lighting	and	energy	efficiency
•	Recycled	building	materials	and	furnishings,	such	as	carpets	and	countertops
•	Wood	building	products	certified	as	to	their	forestry	sustainability
•	Low	VOC-emitting	building	materials	such	as	carpeting,	paints,	adhesives,	and	sealants
•	Daylighting	and	exterior	views	for	90%	of	the	spaces
Maxton, North Carolina
A site-wide comprehensive recycling program was launched and waste-handling equipment throughout the plant was upgraded 
to handle the additional recycling streams . Since the launch, cardboard recycling has increased by 476,000 pounds in FY2009 
vs . FY2008 . Recycling of soft plastics, papers, overaged/damaged finished product, and other materials has also increased . 
More than 64,800 pounds of soft plastics have been recycled . The plant initiated additional capital projects addressing water 
and heat recovery opportunities . Implementation of these projects allowed the Maxton facility to reduce boiler exhaust gases 
and	wastewater	discharge,	delivering	over	$1	million/year	savings.
Key accomplishments at the Maxton plant include:
•	Saved	$97,000	in	FY2009	with	new	recycling	program	and	reduced	landfill	costs	by	$23,000
•	Decreased	the	amount	of	waste	sent	to	the	landfill	by	2.3	million	pounds	in	FY2009	vs.	FY2008
•	Recycled	more	than	1.9	million	pounds	of	overage/damaged	finished	product	that	was	historically	sent	to	the	landfill
•	Increased	cardboard	recycling	by	500,000	pounds	and	plastic	recycling	by	64,000	pounds
•	Reduced	natural	gas	usage	for	steam	generation	by	10%	and	water	usage	by	1	million	gallons/day,	delivering	$1,054,000	in	
gas and water savingsCampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report94NOuRISHING OuR PLANET
Paris, Texas; Maxton, North Carolina; and Sacramento, California 
Energy-efficient lighting systems, which have greatly improved lighting conditions, reduced maintenance costs and significantly 
increased energy efficiencies (thus reducing energy and operating costs) were installed at facilities across the Campbell network . 
Lighting fixtures were replaced or retrofitted with high-efficiency fluorescent fixtures and occupancy sensors . Key results  
include	an	annual	savings	of	$978,000	in	electricity	costs	and	a	reduction	of	greenhouse	gas	emissions	in	excess	of	11,000	
tonnes per year  .
Sacramento, California
Campbell’s Sacramento plant initiated new and improved work practices and implemented utility-saving capital improvements 
across	all	plant	areas	to	save	$500,000	in	utility	costs	in	FY2009.	A	cross-discipline	team	worked	to	reclaim	energy	and	waste	
throughout the plant . Their efforts included more efficient cleaning methods; installing a utility metering and monitoring  
system, which allows tracking of utility usage; reducing solid waste generation through the implementation of a plant-wide 
recycling program; installing energy-saving lighting and lower-flow water nozzles; and auditing and reducing process energy 
and water use .
Some key results include:
•	Reduction	of	3.26%	in	steam	usage	per	product	produced,	saving	approximately	$120,000/year
•	Electricity	reduction	of	4.85%	per	product	produced,	saving	$158,000/year
•	13.45%	reduction	in	water	and	wastewater	per	product	produced,	saving	almost	100	million	gallons	of	water	and	  
$139,000/year
•	Waste	reduction	of	860	tons,	saving	$37,000/year	and	recycling	an	additional	845	tons	of	material,	saving	more	than	  
$29,000/year
Toronto, Canada
Campbell’s Toronto plant implemented a new heat and water recovery project that included the design and installation of tanks, piping, and heat exchangers designed to reuse cooling water and extract heat from wastewater to reduce consumption of water 
by	over	20%	and	reduction	in	usages	of	natural	gas	of	up	to	5%,	resulting	in	annual	savings	of	$900,000	(CAN).
Campbell Company of Canada also completed a solar photovoltaic installation on the roof of the Toronto plant, generating electrical energy to power office lights and reducing CO
2 emissions by approximately nine tonnes (about 20,000 pounds)  
per year  . 
Asset Recovery, Global
The Campbell Asset Recovery team works globally to find beneficial reuse or recycling options for some of the food- 
processing and electronic equipment we no longer use or need . We maintain an online marketplace and data-tracking tools to 
help facilitate this program . While we recognize that more opportunity exists, in 2009 alone Campbell recycled or reused more 
than	900,000	pounds	of	used	equipment	and	generated	more	than	$1.1	million	in	revenue	from	the	sale	of	used	equipment.Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report95NOuRISHING OuR PLANET
Campbell Asia Pacific
Four site-based and corporate Green Teams have actively pursued environmental opportunities as part of Campbell’s Global 
Sustainability Strategy, with another three site-based teams in the region being established during 2010 . In FY2009, more than 
$1	million	was	invested	in	energy-saving	initiatives,	saving	more	than	$400,000	per	year	in	energy	costs	and	reducing	carbon	
emissions by more than 3,650 tonnes of CO2 . Projects included LED relighting at our Huntingwood and Shepparton plants, 
installation of energy-efficient hand driers at our Virginia plant, window shading at our Huntingwood plant, water harvesting, 
and bio-pore composting at our Bekasi plant . The teams have identified more than 100 additional energy-saving initiatives that 
will be considered for future implementation . 
Campbell Europe
Campbell plants in Europe have been executing environmental initiatives resulting in improved performance and resource  
management . Four out of the five plants in the region recycle more than 90% of their waste . Campbell’s Le Pontet factory  
has reduced its energy consumption by 15% since 2006, representing a reduction of 1,693 tonnes of CO2 emissions/year  . 
Karpalund has reduced its energy consumption by 43% over the same period . In the area of water stewardship, our Le Pontet 
plant reduced water use per tonne of product produced by 17% over the last four years, and our Puurs plant achieved a  
reduction of 8% over the same period .
Inspections and Compliance Record
Our Environmental Sustainability Policy clearly outlines the expectation that all of our plants and facilities around the world 
are operated in accordance with environmental laws and our own high performance expectations . While we strive for perfect 
compliance every day, we also plan to be transparent in the areas that need improvement . The following outlines the regulatory 
enforcement activities associated with our worldwide operations that occurred during calendar year 2009:
LOCATION DESCRIPTION fINE CORRECTIvE ACTION
Maxton, NCHydraulic overloading of wastewater  
spray irrigation system$5,000Additional acreage in 2009 and improved electrical controls are being installed in 2010
Everett, WA Improper operation of air scrubber unit $6,000Operational and procedural changes to prevent reoccurrence
Franklin	Twp,	NJDiesel fuel spill <100 gal . from a  
Pepperidge Farm truck$16,130 Cleanup completed
Celaya, MexicoSelf-reported improper disposal of waste product sludgeNo Fine$250,000	investment	in	improved	waste	
treatment system capabilities
Downingtown, PAFailure to submit stormwater permit renewal on timeNo FineApplication submitted and permit  reissued
We also work cooperatively with regulatory agencies to ensure our operations remain in compliance with regional environmental 
improvement plans and regulatory changes .
Our thermal processing facility in Napoleon, OH, continues to work with the Ohio EPA to meet the recently revised ammonia 
limitations	set	for	the	wastewater	treatment	effluent	during	summer	months.	We	are	investing	more	than	$5	million	in	a	capital	
project	to	modify	our	existing	wastewater	treatment	system	by	January	2011	to	provide	additional	treatment	capability.Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report96NOuRISHING OuR PLANET
Our Napoleon, OH, facility also continues to work with the Conservation Action Project (CAP) in Northwest Ohio to reduce  
runoff	from	agricultural	land	and	reduce	nitrate-nitrogen	in	the	Maumee	River.	We	have	made	a	total	of	$100,000	in	donations	
to CAP as part of our 10-year commitment to this project .
Investing in Improved Compliance and Sustainability Performance
We strive to comply with environmental laws and regulations and to reduce our impact on the environment in our local  
communities . To do this, we employ multiple resources, including water treatment systems, wastewater treatment systems,  
and air emission controls . Each year, we invest significant capital to maintain and improve these operations .
We also invest in new projects that advance our commitment to environmental sustainability by reducing the environmental 
footprint of our operations . This enables us to make meaningful steps toward our long-term sustainability goals . These specific 
projects have improved the operation of our facilities and reduced our need for electricity, fuels, and water  . Sustainability  
investments within our production facilities have included the installation of energy-efficient lighting systems, recovering heat 
from cooling water, and recycling water from our product-cooking process . In the past two years, we have invested more than 
$27	million	at	facilities	worldwide	in	order	to	drive	continued	environmental	performance	improvement.	
FY2008 fy2009
Environmental Compliance Projects $6,200,000 $5,154,000
Environmental Sustainability Projects $6,100,000 $9,973,000
Total $12,300,000 $15,132,000
We’ve begun a process to track both investments and planned savings from our environmental sustainability efforts . In the last 
two	years,	we	have	invested	approximately	$16	million	in	efficiency	and	conservation	efforts	designed	to	deliver	more	than	
$6	million	in	annual	savings.Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report97NOuRISHING OuR PLANET
Sustainable Packaging
Campbell’s sustainable packaging guidelines, innovation, and marketplace results
Campbell’s global packaging professionals have increased their focus and efforts to drive packaging sustainability across all 
business units . This included the highly collaborative development of the Campbell Sustainable Packaging Framework that has 
been endorsed by business leadership teams and contains new principles, strategies, and objectives to drive more sustainable 
packaging innovation . This partnership enabled the implementation of many programs that have produced significant benefits . 
These include:
•	Redesigned	the	33.5-ounce	 Pepperidge Farm Goldfish carton, reducing the overall height of the package by three-quarters 
of an inch and maintaining the same quantity of product . This reduced the need for 300,000 pounds of packaging material
•	Redesigned	the	frozen	soup	and	entrée	packaging,	leveraging	online	printing	technology	to	remove	200,000	pounds	of	  
cardboard and improving print quality
•	Redesigned	our	single-serve	 V8 V-Fusion, V8 and Campbell’s Tomato juice PET bottles, reducing weight and eliminating more 
than 300,000 pounds annually
•	Redesigned	the	 Pace salsa jar, allowing the elimination of 460,000 pounds of corrugate annually and significantly improving 
storage and transportation environmental impacts
•	Redesigned	the	end	for	easy-open	condensed	soups	in	the	U.S.	and	Canada,	removing	more	than	3.5	million	pounds	of	steel
•	Redesigned	the	pallet	pattern	for	Campbell	Canada	 Gardennay soups, removing 45 trucks off the road
•	Removed	layer	pads	and	pallet	patterns	for	 V8 and Gardennay soups in Canada, saving 78,000 pounds of corrugate
•	Redesigned	the	secondary	packaging	and	converted	to	a	pad	for	our	top	four	condensed	soups	in	Canada,	removing	
224,000 pounds of corrugate
BRYAN McKAY discusses Campbell’s Global Packaging Sustainability Framework
This year, Bryan McKay, packaging director of Campbell Arnott’s Asia Pacific, was part of the team that developed 
Campbell’s Global Packaging Sustainability Framework, a series of principles, strategies, and objectives that will frame  
all future packaging development programs globally.
“In going through this process, we realized that many packaging projects already underway at Campbell could deliver 
a better sustainability footprint for our products,” said McKay, who is based in Sydney, Australia and has worked for Campbell Arnott’s for seven years. “When collated, the results are significant and will positively impact our environment.”
For example, by making simple redesigns to existing packaging, Campbell reduced steel usage by more than 3.5 
million pounds and paper/board usage by more than 1 million pounds globally. McKay’s department also designs and develops packing for new products, meaning future product packaging will be assessed under these new criteria.
Going forward, McKay’s team is working with key suppliers to investigate other areas where they can reduce waste. 
For example, they’re looking at using renewable and biodegradable packaging materials, including post-consumer recycled materials in beverage bottles, further reducing metal container weights, and employing packing and pro-cesses to improve baked goods shelf life and reduce waste. 
Said McKay, “This framework gives us the direction to change our focus and efforts on driving packaging sustainability 
at Campbell.”Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report98NOuRISHING OuR PLANET
•	Transitioned	a	PET	beverage	bottle	supply	from	the	U.S.	to	a	local	supplier	in	Canada,	eliminating	750	trucks,	and	their	  
associated environmental impact, from the road
•	Redesign	of	 Shapes and Jatz packaging in Australia, reducing paperboard by 440,000 pounds and eliminating 12,000 pallets 
from distribution
In addition to these changes, we have initiated strategic technology development programs with key suppliers aimed at 
producing sustainability breakthroughs in the foreseeable future . Many of these efforts were highlighted during our Packaging 
Sustainability	Fair	held	at	Campbell	World	Headquarters	in	June	2009.	
Implement packaging that delivers the safest, highest-quality food while 
insuring consumer and brand protection.
Continuously seek packaging material and processes that utilize less resources 
while maintaining product quality and supply chain efficiency.
Utilize recyclable and recycled content packaging materials where possible.
Utilize renewable sources of packaging materials where safe and effective.
Work with suppliers to promote clean production technologies and best 
manufacturing processes.Protect
ReduceRecycleRenewPartner
Design with a sustainability 
mindset to deliver safe, consumer-preferred packaging while minimizing our environ-mental impactCreate economic value by linking sustainability with source reduction, material selection, and supply chain efficienciesPartner externally with suppliers, customers, and industry groups to strengthen our program and influence directionOUR PRINCIPLESCampbell Soup Company  2010 CSR Report99NOuRISHING OuR PLANET
Sustainable Packaging Guidelines
In FY2009, our packaging professionals developed formal packaging sustainability guidelines to help inform decisions  
associated with the packaging materials used to protect the wide range of our products . These guidelines translate industry 
best practices into a set of guiding principles .
•	Deliver	75%	of	global	packaging	from	sustainable	materials	(renewable,	recyclable,	or	from	recycled	content)	
•	Obtain	50%	of	company	revenue	from	products	utilizing	packaging	with	an	improved	environmental	footprint	(material	  
reduction and/or substitution and supply chain efficiencies) 
We have established new 2020 targets for our global packaging efforts . In 2010, we will review our data sets worldwide and 
consult with leading sustainable packaging organizations in which we hold membership, including the Sustainable Packaging 
Coalition and the Australia National Packaging Covenant Council (NPCC), to define a set of baseline metrics . Also in 2010, 
Pepperidge Farm plans to finish the conversion of all its dry carton packaging to 100% recycled content .
Campbell is a member of the Consumer Goods Forum Global Packaging Project (GPP) . The GPP launched a partnership of 
major manufacturers and retailers to define and pilot a new common language of definitions to measure the sustainability of 
packaging .
Packaging Challenges
One topic that has received attention in the media recently has been the use of a material called bisphenol A (BPA) . BPA is  
used in a broad array of household and consumer products . The lining of most metal food containers used to prevent corrosion 
and help maintain the food’s safety, quality, and flavor also can contain residual amounts of BPA . The compound has a long  
history of safe use in many plastics and has been approved for use in food packaging by all global regulatory agencies that  
have reviewed it . 559331437370Million Units
28
422540
80
0
<5
0% Recycled Content
Steel Cans and Ends
AluminumGlass JarsCorrugatedFolded CartonsLaminate/PaperboardPaper/LabelsPlastic, Microwave, 
Trays, & PETMaterialsGLOBAL 
PACKAGING PORTFOLIO
(As individual 
units in MMs)
2,771 4,592••••••••2,055 5,730Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report100NOuRISHING OuR PLANET
Campbell’s primary consideration, now and always, is the safety of the people who purchase our products . We adhere to the 
guidance of the U .S . FDA and comply with the packaging requirements of global regulatory agencies . Leading scientific and 
regulatory agencies the world over have thoroughly reviewed numerous tests and studies and reaffirmed that BPA is safe for 
food packaging . Nonetheless, there are additional scientific studies underway to ensure the safety of BPA in food packaging . 
We welcome this additional research and will continue to monitor these scientific studies closely, basing any necessary changes 
in our packaging on their findings and conclusions . 
We go to great lengths to make sure Campbell’s products are safe for families to enjoy  . Providing high-quality food and 
beverages that are safe to eat and drink has been our top priority for 140 years . Our packaging has always — and will always — 
comply with applicable safety standards .
Sustainable Agriculture
Working with farmers and applying comprehensive agricultural science to advance the state 
of sustainable agriculture
Campbell continues to work closely with the farmers who grow our agricultural ingredients to expand our sustainable  
agricultural practices and programs . We strive to reduce the impact that these practices have on the environment, while  
enhancing practices that benefit wildlife and promote biodiversity  . 
By promoting biological diversity through systematic crop rotation and preserving wetlands and natural drainage through 
habitat management, we reduce the effects of soil erosion, conserve water, and improve overall watershed management 
health . Through our involvement as a member of the United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization’s regional vegetable 
Integrated Pest Management (IPM) program, we are finding ways of improving our internal programs and extending our impact 
beyond our contract growers . 
We have made significant advances in our sustainable agriculture efforts over the past 20 years . Campbell encourages better 
water management practices, including drip irrigation and retention basins to reduce runoff and conserve water  . Our contract 
growers have implemented conservation tillage to reduce fuel usage and greenhouse gas emissions . Our researchers have 
developed disease-resistant varieties to reduce pesticide usage and have advanced environmentally friendly integrated pest-
management programs . Almost every effort has the potential to improve multiple areas of stewardship .
Changing climate is expected to have large and far-reaching effects on crop productivity as well as on pests and diseases affect-
ing the cultivated crops . To address these changes, Campbell has teamed with the University of California at Davis (UC Davis) 
to use computer models backed by field experiments to identify optimal water and nitrogen use, and develop weather-based 
predictive systems for the key disease and insect pests for which pesticides are routinely used to create better IPM strategies .Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report101NOuRISHING OuR PLANET
SUPPLIERS
Standards and expectations set for supplier performance . Supplier scorecards and 
assessments . Purchase high-quality ingredients produced by local farmers . Supplier 
engagement in sustainable agriculture and packaging initiatives .
MANUFACTURING
Leading systems and technology for ensuring quality and safety of ingredients and 
products . Global objectives set and investments made in energy and water conserva -
tion, waste management, and recycling . Growing efforts in alternative energy  .
DISTRIBUTION
Logistics optimization to improve environmental impact and distribution of finished 
products to retail customers . Innovation from packaging to shipping to reduce trans -
portation costs . SmartWaySM certification of our shipper fleet .
CUSTOMERS
Support of and partnership with customers on CSR and sustainability initiatives and 
priorities . Sharing of best practices and strategies from suppliers through customers . 
Participation in the Sustainability Consortium .
CONSUMERS
Sector-leading consumer insights and recognized leadership in consumer affairs . 
Advancing nutrition and wellness across the portfolio . Balancing demand for quality, 
affordability, and convenience with sustainable packaging .  HELPING TO BuILD A SuSTAINABLE SuPPL y CHAIN, fROM f ARM TO TABLECampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report102NOuRISHING OuR PLANET
Actions and Initiatives
Our goal is to be the sector leader in sustainable agricultural practices and Integrated Pest Management . We have established 
new long-term goals to reduce water use by 20% and energy use by 30% per pound of ingredient grown of our top agricultural 
ingredients — tomatoes, carrots, celery, mushroom, and jalapeño peppers — by 2020 . Working with our largest suppliers and 
organizations such as the United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization, and continuing our close relationship with UC 
Davis, we are developing programs and practices that will help us and our contract growers meet these challenges .
In FY2010, we are putting renewed emphasis on this area to establish new performance baselines upon which to build future 
metrics . Our specific priorities are outlined below:
Our Sustainable Agriculture Initiatives for FY2010 include:
•	Supporting	increased	Integrated	Pest	Management	and	reducing	synthetic	pesticide	usage
•	Participating	in	Processing	Tomato	Foundation	California	water	metrics	group	
•	Focusing	on	processing	tomato-water	conservation
•	Promoting	tomato	ingredient	transportation	fleet	upgrades	for	improved	mileage	and	GHG	reduction
•	Documenting	and	promoting	ingredient	plant	energy	conservation	initiatives	that	reduce	water	and	energy	use	per	tonne	  
of ingredient
•	Driving	improvements	into	our	returnable	bulk	packaging	reuse	program	Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report103NOuRISHING OuR PLANET
Supply Chain, Logistics, and Transportation
How Campbell manages aspects of sourcing our products and getting them to the store 
shelf, including procurement and distribution
The Campbell global supply chain organization is responsible for all aspects of producing our products and getting them to the 
store shelf . This includes procurement, engineering, manufacturing, quality assurance, and distribution functions . About two-
thirds of our employees work within the supply chain organization at different headquarters locations or at one of the more than 
30 manufacturing plants the company has around the world . These employees work in collaboration with our suppliers, research 
and development, business teams, and trade partners to optimize the supply chain from beginning to end . Key measures of 
success include safety, quality, total delivered cost (TDC), environmental sustainability, and customer service . 
MARY LONG discusses the sustainability benefits of logistics optimization
For Director of Collaborative Supply Chain Solutions Mary Long, saving fuel, time, money, and along the way, the envi-
ronment, is almost like a series of puzzles. She moves pieces around, finding the best fits. She uses math and logic to find ways to cut costs.
“Logistics optimization is all about being green and inherently sustainable,” said Long, who has spent six years with 
Campbell. “It’s not really rocket science: You want to travel fewer miles, move more weight when you can and partner creatively.”
 Long oversees a variety of functions, including transportation, warehousing, and customer operations. This year, her 
department found ways to make small changes that had big impact. The goal is to continue and increase these changes in the next year, ultimately aiming to reduce the company’s CO
2 impact by 20% by 2012.
Take freight utilization, which means putting more weight on an individual trailer so there are fewer trucks on the roads. One way that Campbell did that this year is by switching to a transport company that uses trucks constructed of lighter materials. That means those vehicles can carry more product. In one case, those efforts reduced the number of vehicles on the road from 15,000 to 12,000, Long said.
“That’s good for the customer and good for us,” Long said. “It takes trailers and trucks off the road completely. You 
have 3,000 trucks that aren’t on the road or tying up dock time.”
 In another case of “a little goes a long way,” Supply Chain Solutions found that it could add four pallets of mushrooms 
to each load going to the Maxton, North Carolina plant that makes cream of mushroom soup. That took 20% of the mushroom vehicles off the road. In addition, we have a goal to reload every inbound delivery to our plants with an out-bound shipment. In FY2009 this eliminated 1.2MM “deadhead” miles — i.e., miles when trucks are traveling empty.
Creative partnerships with customers can also make a difference. Campbell offers incentive pricing to reward customers 
who send in optimized weight orders, cutting down on the number of partially filled trucks on the road. Small customers as well as larger ones are taking advantage of the costs savings, she said.
A creative collaboration with another customer has the customer’s trucks leaving its headquarters, picking up a delivery 
for Campbell along the way then dropping off its load at Campbell and being reloaded with soup to take back to its home base. That reduces empty miles and is cost effective, said Long. “It’s a win for them, it’s a win for us, and it’s a win for the environment, and that’s a beautiful thing.”Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report104NOuRISHING OuR PLANET
Results and Initiatives
Campbell Soup Company continues to implement projects aimed at reducing the environmental impact associated with the 
delivery of ingredients to our facilities and the distribution of finished products to our customers . Our manufacturing facilities 
continue to produce approximately 93% of all Campbell-labeled products . 
One significant sustainability advantage Campbell maintains is that many container manufacturing operations are adjacent to 
our food production plants . By operating container manufacturing operations for both cans and plastic bottles in plants that are 
directly attached to our major food manufacturing plants, we eliminate the need to expend energy shipping empty containers 
from remote locations . This makes tremendous improvement to what some refer to as the “embedded environmental impacts” 
of products . Below are examples of other supply chain projects that further reduce the energy required to deliver our finished 
product:
•	In	the	U.S.,	we	have	adopted	the	use	of	lighter-weight	equipment,	increasing	payload	capacity	to	53,000	pounds.	This	
resulted in taking the equivalent of 1,700 trucks off the road, saving 230,000 gallons of diesel fuel, and eliminating more than 
1 million miles traveled in the Campbell distribution network .
•	In	the	U.S.,	pallet	optimization	projects	on	our	inbound	raw	materials	and	ingredients	have	increased	the	number	of	pallets	
per truckload and taken an additional 160 trucks off the road .
•	In	Australia,	Campbell	packaging	professionals	redesigned	both	the	product	cases	and	pallet	patterns,	resulting	in	a	  
reduction in 440,000 pounds of cardboard and eliminating 100,000 truck miles from the Campbell distribution network .
•	Campbell	Canadian	packaging	professionals	redesigned	pallet	stacking	patterns,	saving	78,000	pounds	of	cardboard	and	
removing 750 trucks distributing product from the road in Canada .
•	Through	the	use	of	intermodal	(truck	and	rail)	distribution,	fuel	consumption	and	CO2 emissions were reduced up to 50%  
versus conventional truck distribution, allowing us to reduce the number of trucks on the road and save approximately 
2,100,000 gallons of diesel fuel .
Building a Robust Supplier Base
One of our primary objectives is marketing safe products of consistent quality that meet or exceed our customer and consumer 
expectations . We recognize that our suppliers and other business partners play a critical role in helping us execute our mission 
and our commitment to sustainability in an ethical and responsible manner  . Thus, they must share the same objectives . 
Campbell’s Supply Base Expectations Manual identifies the expectations and requirements of all firms that are, and aspire  
to be, a Campbell supplier  . The requirements detailed in the manual are designed to help our current and potential brokers,  
co-packers, re-packers, special packers, suppliers, warehouses, and licensees meet these objectives . We consider adherence 
and performance to these expectations as essential factors when entering or extending existing business relationships .
In FY2009, we developed a sustainability scorecard that was shared with our largest suppliers . Using their feedback, we will 
develop appropriate measures to track and reward advancing sustainability performance among Campbell suppliers . We also 
are seeking to build a system that supports the growing interest among our customers in understanding the sustainability 
impacts within the supply chain .
In our most recent revision, we have integrated new advanced expectations into the manual that address employee health and 
safety, environmental performance, and human rights .
New suppliers are categorized by risk, utilizing a process documented in our Global Supplier Policy  . The policy defines  
requirements for ongoing monitoring of performance and food safety systems audits against recognized standards as well as 
those that are conducted by an independent third party  . Based on risk categorization and supplier performance, we also con -
duct site audits of those suppliers in higher-risk categories to verify compliance and execute corrective action plans .Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report105NOuRISHING OuR PLANET
Recognition
Acknowledgment of Campbell’s environmental stewardship and management approach
Member Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes 2009/10  
 
Boston College Center for Corporate Citizenship/Reputation Institute:  
Top 10 CSR Index (2008 #2) and (2009 #9)   
Newsweek: Top Green Companies — #121   
   
The City of Toronto recognized Campbell Company of Canada with a “Green Toronto 
Award” for the water conservation related to this project .  
 
 
Goulburn v alley Water:  Campbell received an award from EPA Victoria (Australia) 
demonstrating commitment to resource efficiency by participating in EPA’s partnership 
program with Goulburn Valley Water  . 
Campbell Arnott’s received the Australian Packaging Evolution award for their  
achievements in packaging materials reduction and logistics efficiency  . 
 
Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report106RESOuRCES
About This Report
This is Campbell Soup Company’s second Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report. 
With it, we are striving to provide our stakeholders with a balanced view of our CSR and sustainability strategy and performance in our worldwide operations during fiscal year 2009 (ended July 31, 2009). Our previous report was published in July 2008. This report also includes performance metrics from FY2007 and FY2008, where available. Significant policy or program advances and recognition occurring after FY2009 may also be included.
We prepared this report using the Global Reporting Initiative* (GRI) G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines as a basis for  
organization and content .
A GRI Content Index is provided at the end of the report . Additional information about Campbell operations and financial  
performance is available in our 2009 Annual Report and Form 10-K .
This CSR Report is available as PDF  . A printed highlights brochure is also available by request . For an interactive overview of our 
CSR and sustainability activities, visit Campbell’s Corporate Social Responsibility Website .
Campbell’s first CSR Report primarily addressed U .S . operations . This second CSR Report addresses our operations on a global 
basis . Unless otherwise stated, principles and policies referenced in the report apply to all Company locations worldwide, and to 
all employees of Campbell Soup Company  .
The metrics and goals in this report are established and measured by the Campbell businesses and corporate functions that 
are responsible for achieving them . This is done in consultation with internal and, in some cases, external stakeholders, as well 
as by reference to external benchmarks and leadership practices . Our goal is to deliver a useful and accurate picture of our 
performance . 
Data collection in a multinational manufacturing company is complex, and there are meaningful challenges to compiling  
consistent performance metrics across more than 30 plant and facility sites in multiple countries . While this report includes  
globally consistent metrics in several areas, we continue to work on improving the standardization of our measurement  
systems and building baselines in other areas, such as packaging and agriculture . Performance metrics cover Campbell-owned 
and -operated facilities .
Environmental metrics are reported using widely accepted parameters and units . We use the Carbon Disclosure Project 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol to calculate our GHG emissions . Financial data is presented in U .S . dollars .
Campbell management uses a system of internal controls, including a process of verification by internal subject-matter experts, 
to ensure that this report fairly represents our CSR and environmental sustainability activities and results . Business for Social 
Responsibility (BSR) provided an independent review statement for this report .
We expect and welcome feedback from interested stakeholders . Contact Dave Stangis, Vice President, Corporate Social 
Responsibility,	One	Campbell	Place,	MS43,	Camden,	NJ	08103.	You	may	also	contact	us	via	our	dedicated	CSR	Feedback	Email	
Address: csr_feedback@campbellsoup .com .Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report107RESOuRCES
Identify
MapContextualizeHOW THE REPORT COMES TOGETHER
Issues identified in our Materiality Assessment
Mapping of issues to GRI and other external frameworks
Organizational and geographic context for completeness
Filtering and prioritization based on Campbell impact areas and external reporting expectations
Full written report (pdf) and 
references to GRI and UN Global CompactOnline, high-level summary for reference and regular updatesHard-copy overview for community, employees, and other stakeholdersCampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report108RESOuRCES
2010 CSR Report External Links (Resource)
REfERENCE uRL
AdDRESS Your Heart www  .campbellsaddressyourheart .co m
Agricultural Sustainability Institute, UC Davis asi .ucdavis .edu /
Alliance for a Healthier Generation www  .healthiergeneration .or g
American Council for Fitness and Nutrition www  .acfn .org /
American Heart Association www  .americanheart .or g
Arnott’s Foundation www  .arnottsfoundation .org .au/foundation/home .as p
Blood Pressure Canada’s Award of Excellence hypertension .ca/bpc/  
Boston College Center for Corporate 
Citizenship www  .bcccc .ne t
Camp Quality www  .campqualityusa .co m
Campbell Soup Foundation www  .campbellsoupcompany  .com/Foundation .asp x
Campbell’s without Gluten www  .campbellswithoutglute n
Campbell’s Nutrition and Wellness website www  .campbellwellness .com /
Campbell’s Supply Base Expectations Manual www  .campbellsoupcompany  .com/supplier_requirements .as p
Canadian Association of Food Banks in Canada www  .cafb-acba .c a
Canadian Cancer Society www  .cancer  .ca
Catalyst www  .catalyst .or g
Click For Cans www  .chunky  .com/clickforcanslanding .asp x
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics www  .campbellsoupcompany  .com/governance_conduct_ethics .as p
Commitment Concerning Advertising to Children www  .campbellsoupcompany  .com/governance_children_commitment .as p
Confederation of Food and Drink Industries of the EU www  .ciaa .b e
Contact Us www  .campbellsoupcompany  .com/ContactUs .asp x
CSC Governance Page www  .campbellsoupcompany  .com/governance .as p
Daily Bread Food Bank www  .dailybread .c a
Dow	Jones	Sustainability	Indexes www  .sustainability-index .co m
Driver Reviver www  .driverreviver  .com .a u 
Environmental Sustainability Policy www  .campbellsoupcompany  .com/governance_environmental_sustainability_
policy  .asp
Feeding America feedingamerica .or g
Fishful Thinking www  .fishfulthinking .co m/
Food Allergy & Anaphylaxis Network www  .foodallergy  .org
Food Allergy Research and Resource Program www  .farrp .org /
Food and Consumer Products Association  of Canada www  .fcpmc .com /
Food for All www  .foodforall .or g
continued on next pageCampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report109RESOuRCES
REfERENCE uRL
Food Marketing Institute www  .fmi .or g
Foodbank Australia www  .foodbank .com .a u
Foundation for Strategic Sourcing www  .f4ss .or g/
Global Guidelines for Responsible 
Advertising to Children www  .campbellsoupcompany  .com/governance_children .as p
Go Red For WomenTMwww  .goredforwomen .or g
GRAMMY Foundation www  .grammy  .org/GRAMMY_Foundation /
Grocery Manufacturers Association www  .gmabrands .co m
Healthy Weight Commitment Foundation www  .healthyweightcommit .or g
Heart and Stroke Foundation’s Health Check™ program www  .healthcheck .org /
Help Grow Your Soup www  .helpgrowyoursoup .com /
Help Hunger Disappear www  .helphungerdisappear  .com
Human Rights Campaign www  .hrc .org /
Human Rights Principles www  .campbellsoupcompany  .com/governance_human_rights_principles .as p
Ideas for Innovation www  .campbellsoupcompany  .com/ideas /
Kids in Crisis www  .kidsincrisis .or g
Labels for Education www  .labelsforeducation .com/default .asp x
Let’s Can Hunger www  .letscanhunger  .com
National Business Group on Health www  .businessgrouphealth .or g
National FFA Organization www  .ffa .or g
National Minority Supplier Development  Council (NMSDC) www  .nmsdcus .or g
Net Impact www  .netimpact .or g
Political Accountability Guidelines www  .campbellsoupcompany  .com/governance_political_accountability  .asp
Royal Agricultural Winter Fair www  .royalfair  .org
SmartWay certification www  .epa .gov/smartwa y
Society of Consumer Affairs Professionals (SOCAP) www  .socap .or g
Stamp Out HungerTMwww  .stampouthunger  .info/#/29397 /
Students in Free Enterprise www  .sife .or g
United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization www  .fao .or g
United Nations Global Compact www  .unglobalcompact .or g
Urban Farming Inc www  .urbanfarming .or g
Urban Promise www  .urbanpromiseusa .or g/
V8® Make Every Serving Count www  .v8juice .co m
Women’s Business Enterprise National  Council (WBENC) www  .wbenc .or gcontinued from previous pageCampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report110RESOuRCES
Global Reporting Cross-Reference Index
GRI Index
The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a framework of internationally accepted guidelines and principles for companies and 
organizations to report on corporate responsibility and sustainability performance . For more information about GRI, go to  
www  .globalreporting .org .
SECTION DISCLOSuRESINfORMATION 
REPORTEDREPORT SECTION/  
LOCATION
Strategy and Analysis
1 .1 CEO statement CEO  Letter
1 .2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 2009 Form 10-K
Organizational Profile
2 .1 Name of the organization Corporate Profile and 
Economic Impact
2 .2 Primary brands, products, and services Corporate Profile and Economic Impact
2 .3 Operational structure Corporate Profile and Economic Impact
2 .4 Headquarters location Corporate Profile and Economic Impact
2 .5 Countries of operation Corporate Profile and Economic Impact
2 .6 Nature of ownership and legal form 2009 Form 10-K
2 .7 Markets served Corporate Profile and Economic Impact
2 .8 Scale of organization Corporate Profile and Economic Impact
2 .9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership 2009 Form 10-K
2 .10 Awards received during the reporting period Recognitions are included in each section of the report
Report Parameters
3 .1 Reporting period About This Report
3 .2 Date of previous reporting period About This Report
3 .3 Reporting cycle About This Report
3 .4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its  contents About This Report
3 .5 Process for defining report content About This Report
Materiality Analysis
3 .6 Boundary of the report About This Report
3 .7 Limitations of the scope or boundary of the report About This Report
3 .8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased 
facilities, outsourced operations and other entities that could affect comparability About This Report
continued on next pageFull Partial Not ReportedCampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report111RESOuRCES
SECTION DISCLOSuRESINfORMATION 
REPORTEDREPORT SECTION/  
LOCATION
3 .9 Data measurement techniques and assumptions About This Report
3 .10 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information 
provided in earlier reportsNo restatements in the  current report
3 .11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in  the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied  in the report No significant changes in reporting periods, scope, or boundary unless noted in  the report
3 .12 Location of the Standard Disclosures Management Strategy  and Analysis
Managing Performance
3 .13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external 
assurance for the reportAbout This Report
Governance, Commitments, and Engagement
4 .1 Governance structure Corporate Governance  and Ethics
2009 Proxy Statement
4 .2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is 
also an executive officerCEO and Chairman roles are separate
4 .3 State the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or nonexecutive members Corporate Governance and Ethics
4 .4 Mechanism for shareholders and employees to provide  recommendations or direction to the board 2009 Proxy Statement
4 .5 Linkage between compensation for members of the board, senior managers, and executives and the organization’s  performance Managing Performance
2009 Proxy Statement
4 .6 Processes in place for the board to ensure conflicts of interest 
are avoided2009 Proxy Statement
4 .7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the board for guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics CSR and Sustainability Governance
4 .8 Statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation Winning With Integrity
4 .9 Board procedures for overseeing the organization’s  identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principlesCSR and Sustainability Governance
4 .10 Processes for evaluating the board’s own performance 2009 Proxy Statement
4 .11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization Food Safety and Quality
Resource Stewardship in  
Our Operations
continued on next pagecontinued from previous page Full Partial Not ReportedCampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report112RESOuRCES
SECTION DISCLOSuRESINfORMATION 
REPORTEDREPORT SECTION/  
LOCATION
4 .12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and  
social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses Winning With Integrity
4 .13 Memberships in associations or advocacy organizations Stakeholder Engagement
4 .14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Stakeholder Engagement
4 .15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage Stakeholder Engagement
4 .16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group Stakeholder Engagement
4 .17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through  stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reportingStakeholder Engagement
Materiality Analysis
MANAGEMENT APPROACH AND PERfORMANCE INDICATORS ECONOMIC PERfORMANCE
Disclosure on Management Approach Defining Success Overview
EC1 Economic value generated and distributed, including  
revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governmentsManaging Performance
2009 Form 10-K
EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for 
the organization’s activities due to climate changeResource Stewardship in  Our Operations
Campbell’s Carbon Disclosure 
Project (CDP) Report
EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan  obligations
Campbell Career Site
2009 Form 10-K
EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government 2009 Form 10-K
EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to 
local minimum wage at significant locations of operationThis information is not tracked or reported in this way
EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers
Supplier Diversity
EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior  management hired from the local community at locations  of significant operation Training and Development
EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments  and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro-bono engagement Giving
EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 2009 Form 10-K
continued on next pagecontinued from previous page Full Partial Not ReportedCampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report113RESOuRCES
SECTION DISCLOSuRESINfORMATION 
REPORTEDREPORT SECTION/  
LOCATION
Environmental
Disclosure on Management Approach Nourishing Our Planet 
Overview
EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Environmental Performance Metrics
Sustainable Packaging
EN2 Percentage of recycled input materials used
Sustainable Packaging
EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Resource Stewardship in Our 
Operations
EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Resource Stewardship in Our Operations
EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency  improvements 
Resource Stewardship in Our Operations
Resource Stewardship in 
Action
EN6 Energy-efficiency initiatives or renewable energy sources
Resource Stewardship in Action
EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and  reductions achieved 
Resource Stewardship in Action
EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 
Resource Stewardship in Our Operations
EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water
Resource Stewardship in Our Operations
No water sources significantly 
affected by withdrawal
EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused
Resource Stewardship in Our Operations
EN11 Use of land in protected areas
No Campbell operations in protected areas
EN12 Significant impacts of activities in protected areas
No Campbell operations in protected areas
EN13 Habitats protected or restored
No Campbell operations in protected areas
EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity
Sustainable Agricultur e
EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk This information not tracked or reported
EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight
Resource Stewardship in Our Operations
EN17 Relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions
Resource Stewardship in Our Operations
continued on next pagecontinued from previous page Full Partial Not ReportedCampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report114RESOuRCES
SECTION DISCLOSuRESINfORMATION 
REPORTEDREPORT SECTION/  
LOCATION
EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions 
achievedResource Stewardship in Our Operations
Resource Stewardship in 
Action
EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight
Not currently reported in CSR report
EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight
Not currently reported in CSR report
EN21 Wastewater discharge
Resource Stewardship in Our Operations
EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 
Resource Stewardship in Our Operations
EN23 Releases of hazardous substances by number and volume
Resource Stewardship in Our Operations
EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III and VIII and percentage of transported waste shipped internationallyNo waste transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention
EN25 Identity, size, protected status and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organizations discharges of water and runoff
Not tracked or reported
EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation Resource Stewardship in Our Operations
Sustainable Agricultur e
Sustainable Packaging
EN27 Percentage of products whose packaging is reused
Sustainable Packaging
EN28 Fines/sanctions for noncompliance with environmental  
regulationsEnvironmental Fines or Violations
EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce
Supply Chain, Logistics, and Transportation
EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type
Resource Stewardship in Action
SOCIAL
Labor Practices and Decent Work 
Disclosure on Management Approach
Nourishing Our Employees 
Overview
LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region Nourishing Our Employees Overview
LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region
Nourishing Our Employees Overview
continued on next pagecontinued from previous page Full Partial Not ReportedCampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report115RESOuRCES
SECTION DISCLOSuRESINfORMATION 
REPORTEDREPORT SECTION/  
LOCATION
LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not  
provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operationCompensation
Health and WellnessWork/Life Flexibility
LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining 
agreementsNot reported
LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements Not reported
LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programsSafety
LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and  absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region Safety
LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases Health and Wellness
LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Not reported
LA10 Training and continuing education hours by employee  category Training and Development
LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings Training and Development
LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews Training and Development
LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Nourishing Our Employees Overview
Diversity and Inclusion
LA14 Compensation by gender and employee category
This information is not 
reported
Human Rights
Disclosure on Management Approach Nourishing Our Employees Overview
Campbell Human Rights 
Principles
HR1 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights, and actions taken
Not reported
HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights, and actions taken Supply Chain, Logistics, and Transportation
HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained
Winning With Integrity
HR4 Incidents of discrimination and action taken Not Reported
continued on next pagecontinued from previous page Full Partial Not ReportedCampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report116RESOuRCES
SECTION DISCLOSuRESINfORMATION 
REPORTEDREPORT SECTION/  
LOCATION
HR5 Businesses with significant risk 2009 Form 10-K
HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents  
of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the  elimination of child laborNo operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor
HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measure to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor
No operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor
HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations
This information is not tracked
HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken No incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people
Society
Disclosure on Management Approach
Nourishing Our Neighbors Overview
SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and  practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting
Nourishing Our Neighbors Overview
SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption
Winning With Integrity
SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s  anticorruption policies and procedures Winning With Integrity
SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Winning With Integrity
SO5 Public-policy positions and participation in public-policy development and lobbying Public Policy Engagement
SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country Public Policy Engagement
SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, antitrust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Not Reported
SO8 Fines/sanctions for noncompliance with regulations Material items are reported in 2009 Form 10-K
Product Responsibility
Disclosure on Management Approach
Nourishing Our Consumers Overview
Food Safety and Quality
PR1 Lifecycle stages in which health and safety impacts of 
products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such proceduresOffering Healthy and Nutritious Products
Food Safety and QualityEnsuring Consumer 
Satisfaction
continued on next pagecontinued from previous page Full Partial Not ReportedCampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report117RESOuRCES
SECTION DISCLOSuRESINfORMATION 
REPORTEDREPORT SECTION/  
LOCATION
PR2 Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations 
and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their lifecycle, by type of outcomesEnsuring Consumer Satisfaction
PR3 Type of product and service information required by  procedures, and percentage of significant products and  services subject to such information requirements
Food Safety and Quality
PR4 Total number of incidents of noncompliance with  regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes Ensuring Consumer Satisfaction
PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction
Ensuring Consumer Satisfaction
PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including  advertising, promotion, and sponsorship 
Campbell Corporate Governance Policies
PR7 Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship by type of outcomesNot reported in this report
The National Advertising 
Division reports many advertising disputes
PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data
This information is not reported
PR9 Significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the use of products and services
Material items are reported in 2009 Form 10-Kcontinued from previous page Full Partial Not ReportedCampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report118RESOuRCES
UN Global Compact Index 
The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strate -
gies with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anticorruption . Campbell 
Soup Company committed to the principles of the UN Global Compact in 2009 . Below is an index of our reporting against the 
UN Global Compact principles within the content of this 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report. More information on our 
progress can be found on our Company website at www  .campbellsoup .com/cs r.
PRINCIPLE 
NuMBER DESCRIPTIONREPORT SECTION/  
LOCATION
  1 Support and respect protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Human Rights Principles
 Supply Chain, Logistics, and 
Transportation
  2 Make sure business is not complicit in human rights abuses Human Rights Principles
Nourishing Our NeighborsSupply Chain, Logistics, and 
Transportation
  3 Uphold freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargainingHuman Rights Principles
Nourishing Our EmployeesSupply Chain, Logistics, and 
Transportation
  4 Support elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Human Rights Principles
Winning With IntegritySupply Chain, Logistics, and 
Transportation
  5 Support effective abolition of child labor Human Rights Principles
Winning With IntegritySupply Chain, Logistics, and 
Transportation
  6 Eliminate discrimination in employment and occupation Human Rights Principles
Winning With IntegritySupply Chain, Logistics, and 
Transportation
Diversity and Inclusion
  7 Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Food Safety and QualityNourishing Our Planet 
Overview
  8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Resource Stewardship in Our Operations
Resource Stewardship in 
Action
continued on next pageCampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report119RESOuRCES
PRINCIPLE 
NuMBER DESCRIPTIONREPORT SECTION/  
LOCATION
  9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly 
technologiesResource Stewardship in Our Operations
Resource Stewardship in 
Action
10 Work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery Corporate Governance Policies
Winning With Integritycontinued from previous pageCampbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report120RESOuRCES
Independent Review Statement
Campbell Soup Company’s 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report  — 
BSR Review Letter 
Campbell Soup Company requested that BSR conduct an independent review of its Corporate 
Social Responsibility Report covering activities and performance in 2009 . We highlight areas 
of strengths and challenges, and suggest ways that future reports can address the complex set 
of issues facing Campbell Soup . It should be noted that our review neither verifies nor expresses an opinion on the accuracy, 
timeliness, or completeness of information provided in this report .
Significant strengths and achievements include:
In-depth coverage of selected issues
The Report provides a comprehensive look at a number of key issues facing Campbell Soup, including its success in enhanc-
ing the health profile of its product lines and efforts to address hunger and obesity in the communities where it does business . 
Particularly notable has been its achievement in the area of health and nutrition . All food companies face these complex issues, 
and we believe that the information in the Report will allow stakeholders to make informed decisions about Campbell Soup’s 
programs and objectives . 
Clear description of CSR strategy and programs, and 2020 goalsCampbell Soup has developed a thorough CSR strategy and the underlying governance framework and programs to implement 
it, and the Report uses clear language to describe them . Also impressive are its 2020 CSR goals, which are bold and as such 
will entail significant challenges . We look forward in future reports to more detail as to how these goals will be achieved and to 
Campbell Soup’s progress .  
Solid progress built on 2008 CSR report
The Report shows marked improvement from last year’s, especially in the areas of strategy, metrics, and completeness .  
In addition, the description of the CSR management system is a welcome addition, and it provides a clear sense of how  
Campbell Soup will manage its environmental and social responsibilities going forward .   
In future reports, we encourage Campbell Soup to:
Increase focus on selected material CSR issues
Campbell Soup has conducted a materiality analysis that has defined and prioritized its most important CSR opportunities 
and challenges . We believe that the most critical CSR issues have been identified, and encourage a continued and deeper 
examination of sustainability in the areas of packaging, agriculture production, and supply chain management . Each area offers 
significant possibilities for reducing risk and achieving a leading position in CSR performance within the food industry  . 
In addition, we believe that a more in-depth discussion should be presented on the outcomes of Campbell Soup’s stakeholder 
engagement efforts . Leading companies are increasingly using stakeholder engagement as a means to assess market position -
ing, product developments, and enterprise risk, and providing more detail around stakeholder viewpoints and perspectives 
would add value to the Report . At the same time, we would welcome a more focused discussion of the company’s wide-ranging 
community outreach activities, including those addressing obesity and hunger  .  
Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report121RESOuRCES
Balance discussion of successes and challenges
A hallmark of the most highly regarded CSR reports is the open recognition of difficult environmental, social, and governance 
problems . Although Campbell Soup has many successful CSR programs and initiatives to highlight, we would also like to see 
discussion of its key challenges in the areas of health & wellness, community outreach, and management of its supply chain 
from farm to consumer  . 
Evolve reporting approach
CSR reporting is an important component of a company’s engagement with internal and external stakeholders . Companies are 
increasingly experimenting with a combination of print, online, social networking, and other interactive media to communi -
cate their commitments, programs, and performance . We encourage Campbell Soup to continue development of web-based 
reporting that will allow stakeholders to access basic information in an efficient manner, while at the same time leveraging more 
interactive and innovative approaches to convey key strategies, goals, and performance trends . 
Summary
Food companies arguably face a wider array of CSR challenges than those in any other industry  . Greater transparency and the 
likely intensification of critical global issues such as climate change, food security, water availability, and health & wellness, will 
increase the pressure on the food industry to demonstrate that its CSR programs are both meaningful and effective . Building on 
the foundation of its strategic plan for addressing environmental, social, and governance issues, Campbell Soup has the oppor -
tunity to utilize its CSR report as a primary communication tool in order to strengthen its brand and demonstrate to the food 
industry that sustainability is perfectly aligned with profitability  . 
Eric Olson Senior Vice President Advisory Services BSR
March 30, 2010Campbell Soup Company 2010 CSR Report122RESOuRCES
Nourishing Our Consumers
• Named to 2010 World’s Most Ethical Companies List, 
Ethisphere magazine
• Named to 100 Best Corporate Citizens List,  
Corporate Responsibility magazine
• Ranked #2 Best Corporate Reputation — 2 years running,  
Boston College Center for Corporate Citizenship, 
Reputation Institute
• Top 100 Global Brands, BusinessWeek
• Top Australian Iconic Brand (Arnott’s), Reader’s Digest 
Australia Trusted Brands
Nourishing Our Neighbors
• Corporate Volunteer of 2009 —  
Human Services Council of Norwalk
• Chairman Circle Award —  
United Way of Coastal Fairfield County
• Corporate Community Partner of the Year,  
Norwalk Economic Opportunity Now
• Top Food Donor — Toronto, Canada, Daily Bread  
Food Bank
• Corporate Citizenship Award, Camden,  
NJ Chamber of Commerce
Nourishing Our Employees
• Gallup Great Workplace Award — 4 years  
running, Gallup, Inc  .
• Platinum Award — Workplace Wellness, The National 
Business Group on Health
•	Best	Places	to	Work	NJ	2009,	 New Jersey Biz magazine
• 50 Best Places to Work — Canada , Global Great Places  
to Work
• Best Places to Work in CT 2009, Hartford Business Journal
• Best Places to Work for LGBT Equality — 2 years running, 
Human Rights Campaign
• Catalyst Award 2010, Winning with Women, Catalyst
2010
Nourishing Our Planet
•	Named	to	Dow	Jones	Sustainability	Indexes	—	2009/2010
• Top 10 Corporate Social Responsibility Index,  
Boston College Center for Corporate Citizenship, 
Reputation Institute
• Green Toronto Award for Water Efficiency,  
The City of Toronto
• Australian Packaging Evolution Award — Food Packaging 
Action, Packaging Magazine
• Sustainable Business of the Year, Sacramento Environmental 
Resource Center
World Headquarters
Campbell Soup Company 1 Campbell Place 
Camden,	NJ	08103  
Tel (856) 342-4800  Fax (856) 342-3878
For copies of Campbell’s Corporate Social Responsibility 
Report, write to Dave Stangis, Vice President —  Corporate Social Responsibility  
at csr_feedback@campbellsoup .com .
Campbell Brands
Product trademarks owned or licensed by Campbell Soup Company and/or its subsidiaries appearing in the narrative 
text of this report are italicized .Selected Awards and Recognition