Where We’re 
Headed
Campbell Soup Company
2019 Corporate Responsibility Reporttable of  contents
 
pg. 36
 SHARED 
Employees
 
pg. 22 SOURCED 
pg. 16
 GROWN 
pg. 03
 
CORPORATE  
RESPONSIBILITY
About This Report
The 2019 Campbell Corporate Responsibility Report marks a  
decade of providing our stakeholders with a balanced view of  
our corporate responsibility strategy and performance across our 
global operations. This report covers initiatives and performance 
metrics associated with our material corporate responsibility 
issues during the fiscal year 2018, which ended July 29, 2018.  
This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: 
Core option. 
pg. 44
 SHARED
Consumers
 
pg. 53
 SHARED
Communities
 
pg. 29
 PRODUCED
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 1This has been a transitional year for Campbell. We completed the acquisition 
of Snyder’s-Lance, the largest transaction in our company’s history, and 
added Pacific Foods to our portfolio. We undertook a strategic review  
of the business. And we shared the decision to divest our Campbell 
International and Campbell Fresh businesses to drive growth, focusing  
on two distinct businesses moving forward: Campbell Snacks and  
Campbell Meals and Beverages.
Our vision now for Campbell is to be a leading, focused snacks  
and simple meals company, with a portfolio of best-in-class products  
and brands in our core North American market. 
While there has been a lot of change, we remain committed to  
our Purpose, Real food that matters for life’s moments. 
In this year’s report, we invite you to explore our corporate responsibility 
initiatives and commitments that are helping us live into this Purpose.  
We continue to integrate our two newest acquisitions, Snyder’s-Lance  
and Pacific Foods, and as a result, will not include data from these  
two businesses. We expect to include this data in our 2020 Report.Where We’re Headed
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT CAMPBELL
CEO MESSAGE
Throughout my more than 20 years in 
the food business, I have long admired 
Campbell and the passion and commit-
ment of the company and its people to 
be a positive force in the world. It is one 
of the many reasons why I am honored 
to be leading Campbell today, and  
why I am committed to building on our 
leadership in this area. 
The food industry is experiencing one  
of the biggest periods of transformation 
we have ever seen. For Campbell, 2018 
was also a year of change, including  
my appointment as President and CEO. 
We acquired two companies, Snyder’s- 
Lance and Pacific Foods. We conducted 
a strategic and portfolio review that resulted 
in a new path forward focused on our 
two core North American businesses, 
Campbell Snacks and Campbell Meals & 
Beverages. In addition, we made the 
difficult decision to divest non-core 
assets, including Campbell International and Campbell Fresh—both of which are 
featured prominently in this report. While 
it was a year of refocusing, Campbell  
has been, and will continue to be, a 
great company. I am confident in the 
direction we are headed because of  
the combination of our talented people, 
iconic brands and an ambition to do 
something remarkable together. Campbell 
continues to have a strong foundation, 
as our Purpose, Real food that matters 
for life’s moments, and our values set a 
clear course to deliver on our commit-
ments to all our stakeholders. 
Real Food Prepared with Care and 
Accessible to All; Building Trust 
Through Transparency
As we transform our company, we have 
recommitted to our brands, our products 
and the way we make our food to drive 
sustainable, profitable growth. We believe 
real food should be more accessible to 
all communities, where it can be part of, Dear Campbell Stakeholders,“ Campbell continues to have  
a strong foundation, as our 
Purpose, Real food that 
matters for life’s moments, 
and our values set a clear 
course to deliver on our 
commitments to all our 
stakeholders.”  
 
Mark Clouse  
President and Chief Executive Officer
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
3
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT CAMPBELL
CEO Message, cont.
and even help improve, the overall quality 
of peoples’ lives. Families rely on us to 
make real food with ingredients they 
recognize. We believe giving back 
matters and work to ensure families in 
times of need have access to food and 
beverages—whether due to natural 
disasters or challenging circumstances.
Today more than ever, Campbell is 
committed to transparency, because 
we believe our values and integrity are 
best demonstrated through a commit-
ment to openness and sharing both in 
our work and with the ingredients in our 
food. Our engagement with consumers 
inspired us to evolve some of our 
traditional recipes, and we’ve crafted 
new products that deliver more whole 
grains, vegetables, lean protein and 
plant-based options.
Protecting the Environment and 
Supporting Sustainable Agriculture
Families rely on us to ensure our 
ingredients are grown with care by 
farmers who share our commitment to 
food rooted in goodness, flavor and 
authenticity. We uphold this standard by 
working with others across the supply 
chain to ensure our food is grown 
sustainably. For instance, in collaboration 
with the Land O’Lakes SUSTAIN program, 
Campbell helped growers, representing  
10,000 acres of wheat used in our 
Pepperidge Farm products, to adopt more 
sustainable fertilizer practices to nurture 
soil health. This strategic partnership 
reflects our long-standing commitment 
to providing farmers with the tools to 
support and sustain a resilient agricultural 
supply chain. 
Our commitment to driving progress 
against our 2025 climate, water and 
waste goals remains steadfast. In fiscal 
year 2018, we saw a reduction in our 
greenhouse gas emissions, diverted  
92 percent of waste from landfills, and 
made further progress on measuring 
and reducing food waste.Building a Culture Around Purpose, 
Values and Accountability 
At Campbell, culture is a serious part of 
our agenda—something we continue to 
nurture and grow together. While we are 
proud of the progress we have made, 
we must continue to ensure that purpose, 
values and accountability are part of the 
fabric of our company and that diversity 
and inclusion are embedded in our 
business operations. This past year,  
we have worked to enhance inclusivity 
in the workplace, with a commitment  
to listen to, learn from and understand 
one another in every interaction. For 
me, this is what a winning team feels 
and acts like, and one that is best able 
to reflect the needs of our consumers 
and the communities we serve. Our 
employee resource groups continue to 
provide unique connections and insights, 
as well as support for employees across 
the company. As an Army veteran,  
I am proud that Campbell’s Veterans 
Connection group allows us to better 
understand the needs of our employees 
who have protected the greater good of 
our communities through military service. 
I am humbled and honored by the privilege 
to serve as the 14th CEO in Campbell’s 
storied history. In 2019, Campbell will 
celebrate its 150th Anniversary as we 
continue to build on the work of those 
who came before us. Our predecessors 
devoted their time to creating a strong 
company rooted in iconic brands loved 
by people around the world. As I join the 
Campbell family, I also join the ranks of  
a dedicated, passionate team of people 
committed to our legacy and to the 
journey ahead. Thank you to the thousands 
of employees, customers, partners and 
friends—past and present—who continue 
to make Campbell’s Purpose a reality.
Sincerely, 
Mark Clouse
President and Chief Executive Officer
Campbell Soup Company2018 Calendar Year 
Recognitions
 
• 100 BEST  
CORPORATE CITIZENS  
Ranked #12  
Corporate Responsibility Magazine  
9th consecutive year
• COMMUNITY CHAMPION AWARD 
United Way of Greater Philadelphia  
and Southern New Jersey
• DOW JONES  
SUSTAINABILITY INDEX 
10th consecutive year on the  
North American Index;  
Scored 100% in health and nutrition
• THE REPUTATION INSTITUTE 
Ranked #1 Most Reputable Company 
in America
• FTSE4GOOD INDEX 
4th consecutive year
• HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN 
CORPORATE EQUALITY INDEX 
100% Score—for the 9th time
• JUST CAPITAL 
Recognized on the JUST 100 list as one 
of the most JUST companies in America 
for the second consecutive year; 
3rd among food and beverage 
companies
• MSCI INDEX SERIES 
Included as a constituent of the MSCI 
Global ESG and SRI Indices
• PRODUCE FOR BETTER HEALTH 
FOUNDATION 
Fruits & Veggies—More Matters®  
Industry Role Model 
5th consecutive year
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
4
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT CAMPBELLCORPORATE PROFILE
Campbell is driven and inspired by our Purpose: Real food that matters for life’s moments. Founded in 1869,  
our 23,000 employees remain true to our founders’ values as we provide authentic, flavorful and readily available  
foods and beverages that connect our consumers to each other and what’s important to them. In FY2018,  
our products were sold in more than 100 countries around the world and generated sales of $8.685 billion.
Real Food Philosophy
Guided by our Purpose, focused on the future and inspired by the proud legacy of Dr. John Dorrance, we carefully  
crafted our Real Food Philosophy to further define real food at Campbell.
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
5
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT CAMPBELLCorporate Profile, cont.
Our Values
The food industry is changing, characterized by a new generation of consumers who want to buy from brands that share their values. 
This shift has encouraged us to look inward to consider what Campbell values most today. Put simply, we are proud of our rich heritage 
but focused on the future. The Campbell Values and behaviors establish a challenger mindset inspired by the integrity and 
innovation of our founders. They inform how we recruit and develop our people and how we conduct ourselves in the marketplace.
Our Business in FY2018
Meals and Beverages
Includes the retail and food service 
businesses in the U.S. and Canada. 
The segment includes the following 
products: Campbell’s condensed and 
ready-to-serve soups; Swanson broths 
and stocks; Pacific broth, soups,  
non-dairy beverages and other simple 
meals; Prego pasta sauces; Pace  
Mexican sauces; Campbell’s gravies, 
pasta, beans and dinner sauces; 
Swanson canned poultry; Plum food and 
snacks; V8 juices and beverages; and 
Campbell’s tomato juice. Beginning in 
fiscal 2019, the segment also includes 
the simple meals and shelf-stable 
beverages business in Latin America.Global Biscuits and Snacks 
Includes the U.S. snacks portfolio 
consisting of Pepperidge Farm cookies, 
crackers, bakery and frozen products in 
U.S. retail, and Snyder’s-Lance pretzels, 
sandwich crackers, potato chips, tortilla 
chips and other snacking products. The 
segment also includes Arnott’s biscuits in 
Australia and Asia Pacific, Kelsen cookies 
globally, and the simple meals and shelf-  
stable beverages business in Australia 
and Asia Pacific. We are pursuing plans to 
divest the Arnott’s biscuits, Kelsen cookies 
and the Australia and Asia Pacific simple 
meals and shelf-stable beverages 
business. In FY2018, this segment also 
included the simple meals and shelf-
stable business in Latin America.Campbell Fresh
Includes Bolthouse Farms fresh 
carrots, carrot ingredients, refrigerated 
beverages and refrigerated salad 
dressings; Garden Fresh Gourmet  
salsa, hummus, dips and tortilla chips; 
and the U.S. refrigerated soup business. 
We are pursuing plans to divest these 
businesses.
Worldwide Locations 
NORTH AMERICA
World Headquarters
Camden, New Jersey
Administrative Offices
Charlotte, North Carolina 
Norwalk, Connecticut
Santa Monica, California 
Toronto, Canada
Manufacturing 
Facilities
Arizona
Goodyear (GBS) 
California
Bakersfield (CF) 
Dixon (MB) 
Stockton (MB) Connecticut
Bloomfield (GBS) 
Florida
Lakeland (GBS) 
Georgia
Columbus (GBS)
Illinois
Downers Grove (GBS)
Indiana
Jeffersonville (GBS)
Massachusetts
Hyannis (GBS)
Michigan
Ferndale (CF)** 
Grand Rapids (CF)** New Jersey
East Brunswick (GBS) 
North Carolina
Charlotte (GBS) 
Maxton (MB)
Ohio
Ashland (GBS) 
Napoleon (MB) 
Willard (GBS) 
Oregon
Salem (GBS)
Tualatin (MB) 
Pennsylvania
Denver (GBS) 
Downingtown (GBS)
Hanover (GBS)Texas
Paris (MB)
Utah
Richmond (GBS) 
Washington
Everett (CF)** 
Prosser (CF) 
Wisconsin
Beloit (GBS)
Franklin (GBS) 
Milwaukee (MB) 
Canada
Toronto (MB)*AUSTRALIA AND  
ASIA PACIFIC
Administrative Office
North Strathfield, 
Australia 
Manufacturing 
Facilities
Australia
Huntingwood (GBS) 
Marleston (GBS) 
Shepparton (GBS) 
Virginia (GBS)
Indonesia
Bekasi (GBS) Malaysia
Selangor Darul Ehsan 
(GBS) 
EUROPE
Administrative Office
Nørre Snede, Denmark
Manufacturing 
Facilities
Denmark
Nørre Snede (GBS) 
Ribe (GBS)
England
Norwich (GBS)
Wednesbury (GBS)$4.2 Billion Annual Sales $3.5 Billion Annual Sales $1 Billion Annual SalesDare
to
DisruptSeek  
the Power  of  
DifferentDo Right  
 and
Be RealOwn it
like a
Founder
    *Expected to close by the end of FY2019  **Announced divestiture in FY2019
MB—Meals and Beverages, GBS—Global Biscuits and Snacks, CF—Campbell Fresh
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
6
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT CAMPBELLSUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY
Our sustainability strategy reflects our Purpose to provide Real food that matters for life’s moments and our strong commitment 
to transparency in the decisions we make and the actions we take. During our annual formal strategic planning process in FY2017, 
we revised our sustainability strategy to more closely align with our value chain and to support our business objectives. This new 
framework reflects how we grow, source, produce and share our food. 
We developed this strategy with major food industry trends in mind. Global population growth, water scarcity, climate change 
and constraints on agricultural land are placing massive strain on the food system. A growing number of people lack ready 
access to good, affordable food, while food-related health issues such as obesity and diabetes continue to rise. At the same 
time, demographic shifts are producing a base of aging consumers interested in foods that can help them manage chronic 
diseases, and a younger generation that craves food that suits their active, wellness-focused lifestyles. Both changes add 
up to an increased focus on health and well-being, and Campbell is rising to meet this demand. We are not only developing 
healthier products—we’re being more transparent about how our food is grown and produced and where we stand on issues 
that matter, like animal welfare and mandatory labeling of GMOs. 
Our Vision
We strive to build a more resilient 
food system, making real food that 
improves the health  and well-being 
of the world we all share, for 
generatio ns to come.To lead the food indust ry in food 
that is ethically  and sustainably  grown, 
sourced , produced and shared.Our Mission
GrownSourced
Ensure ethical  and sustainable 
practices  in our supply chain
Shared
Improve stakeh older and shareholder  
value through  transpa rency and our 
Real Food Philosophy
Produced
Promote stewardship of natural 
resources in our operatio ns
•Climate
•Water
•Waste
•Responsiblesourcing
•Traceabilit y
•Supplier divers ity
•
Human rights
•Resourceconserv ation
•Farmer livelih oods
•Pesticide and fertilizer  use
•Agricultur al innovation sProtect  natural resources  
and livelihoods on farms
•Employ ees
•Customers
•Consumer s
•Commun ities
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
7
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT CAMPBELLStrategic Foresight Into the Future
Throughout the year, we maintain dialogue with our suppliers, customers, NGOs and investors to monitor and assess 
emerging issues and the evolution of the topics in Campbell’s materiality assessment. We have engaged a broad  
cross-section of Campbell leaders in developing an actionable, enterprise-wide view of the future of food. More  
specifically, we sought to define disruptions and opportunities in the five- to seven-year horizon within the areas of  
real food and food and technology. 
We gathered and synthesized marketplace, consumer, culinary and technology trends, and conducted extensive interviews 
with futurists, academics, chefs, designers, nutritionists and anthropologists. The themes identified represent an emerging 
pattern of change that combines and categorizes internal stakeholder perspectives, external influences and broader strategic 
drivers. These platforms cut across real food, technology and sustainability and are informing our decision making.
The platforms, which include Future Commerce, My.Moments (snacking), Limitless Local, Connected Culinary Experiences and 
Clean AgTech, among others, bring together the disruptors, drivers, trends and signals existing across social, technological, 
economic, environmental, political and values-driven contexts.Strategy, cont.
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
8
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT CAMPBELLCORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
COMMITMENTS
CATEGORY TARGET SCOPE PROGRESS
GROWN
AgricultureReduce GHGs per tonne of tomatoes by 20% by the end of 2020, as  
compared to 2012U.S. tomatoes Reduced 18%
Reduce water use per pound of tomatoes by 20% by the end of 2020, as  
compared to 2012U.S. tomatoes Reduced 15%
Reduce nitrogen applied per tonne of tomatoes by 10% by the end of 2020, as 
compared to 2012U.S. tomatoes Increased 1%
Enroll 70,000 acres of wheat in a fertilizer optimization plan by the end of 2020 U.S. 10,000 acres
Source 50% (by volume) of plant-based priority ingredients from suppliers engaged  
in an approved sustainable agriculture program by FY2025Global
Soy 0%
Wheat 8%
Jalapeños 0%
Tomatoes 87%
Carrots 22%
Potatoes 0%
SOURCED
PackagingTransition steel cans to non-BPA linings in the U.S. and Canada by  
the end of 2017U.S. and 
CanadaAchieved
Responsible
SourcingSource 100% cage-free eggs by the end of 2025 Global 16%
Source 100% “No Antibiotics Ever” (NAE) chicken for diced and canned chicken 
products by the end of 2017U.S. and 
Canada98%
Source 100% crate-free pork by the end of 2022 Global 57%
Source 100% U.S. chicken meat that complies with higher broiler chicken welfare 
standards by the end of 2024U.S. Assessing 
suppliers
Purchase 100% Responsibly Sourced Palm Oil (RSPO) by the end of 2016 Global Achieved for 
Campbell 
portfolio; still 
integrating 
Snyder’s-Lance
By FY2025, responsibly source 100% of priority raw materials Global Defining scope 
and baseline
By FY2025, 100% of priority raw materials are traceable to country of origin Global Defining scope 
and baseline
By FY2020, measurably advance Campbell’s Supplier Diversity Program Global Defining scope 
and baseline
By FY2020, proactively assess 100% of Campbell-owned facilities for compliance  
with Campbell’s Human Rights PrinciplesGlobal 21%
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
9
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT CAMPBELLCATEGORY TARGET SCOPE PROGRESS
PRODUCED
ClimateReduce Scope 1 and 2 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions by 25% on an absolute 
basis by FY2025, as compared to FY2017Global 2% 
Source 40% of our electricity from renewable or alternative energy sources  
by FY2020Global 0%—power sold 
to others1
WaterReduce water use by 20% on an absolute basis by FY2025, as compared to FY2017 Global 0.2% 
WasteReduce the amount of waste sent to landfills by 25% on an absolute basis  
by FY2025, as compared to FY2017Global 1%
Cut food waste in half by FY2030, as compared to FY20172Global plants 11%
SHARED
 
SafetyAchieve 3% decrease in reportable and lost time incidents per year with  
long-term goal of 0 incidentsGlobal
Reportable incidents Goal achieved, 
14% reduction
Lost Time incidents 5% increaseCORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
COMMITMENTS (CONTINUED)
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
10
1  Campbell generates renewable energy equivalent to 4 percent of its electricity use through onsite solar and fuel cell installations, but sells all of it  
to others.
2  We define our food waste commitment in accordance with Sustainable Development Goal 12.3. As such, we exclude animal feed and biomaterial 
processing from the scope of our goal.CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT CAMPBELLGOVERNANCE
SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP NETWORK
• Cross-functional team that includes sustainable agriculture, environmental engineering, 
packaging, procurement and manufacturing
• Responsible for development of short- and long-term goals and performance metrics 
• Reports quarterly to steering committeeBOARD OF DIRECTORS
• Provides oversight 
• Audit Committee receives annual sustainability updatesHow Sustainability Governance Permeates Our Business
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
• Provides executive support
VICE PRESIDENT OF CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  
& CHIEF SUSTAINABILITY OFFICER
• Reports to the CEO and leads global strategy
SUSTAINABILITY STEERING COMMITTEE
• Senior leaders from operating divisions, global engineering, corporate responsibility, 
global procurement, research and development, and manufacturing
• Oversees leadership networkCampbell’s commitment to sustainability is reflected in our Purpose. Because of this, our governance structure helps to ensure 
that sustainability and, more broadly, corporate responsibility, is integrated into our business decisions. Additionally, from FY2012 
through FY2018, we included sustainability metrics in our Annual Incentive Plan (AIP) Scorecard to link incentive compensation 
with our sustainability goals. 
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
11
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT CAMPBELLEthics
Everything we do at Campbell reflects our strong foundation of ethical business practices. This foundation allows us to 
attract and retain talented people who share our values, and it also reduces the potential for risk or reputational damage. 
We pride ourselves on having built an ethical company where employees are proud to work. 
Campbell’s compliance and ethics program, Winning with Integrity, reflects our conviction that conducting business in 
compliance with the law and the highest standards of business ethics is essential to our success. As reflected in our  
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, employees share responsibility for ensuring that the Winning with Integrity 
principles are fulfilled every day, through each and every action taken—whether in the marketplace, the workplace  
or the community.
The Code outlines our company’s basic standards and expectations, highlights important policies and summarizes certain 
fundamental legal requirements that employees must follow. Each employee receives a copy of the Code, which is available 
in multiple languages, and participates in training regularly. We review the Code on a regular basis. The most recently 
updated version was approved by the CEO and the Board of Directors, announced and distributed to employees in their 
language of choice and posted on the company’s internal and external websites.
Campbell’s Legal Department is responsible for maintaining and administering the Winning with Integrity program.  
The Vice President, Head of Ethics and Compliance & Deputy General Counsel has overall responsibility for the direction 
and administration of the program and has direct access to the Chair of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors  
for all compliance-related matters. A full report on the program is presented to the Audit Committee on an annual basis.Governance, cont.
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
12
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT CAMPBELLMATERIALITY
Material corporate responsibility issues are those topics that influence the judgment and decisions of our external 
and internal stakeholders, as well as having an impact on them and our business. We identify and prioritize material 
corporate responsibility issues through the four-step assessment process below.
Step 1: Identify Issues—We review the priorities publicly reported by our peers, conduct a media audit of trending issues  
and discuss issues with NGOs and investors.
Step 2: Survey Stakeholders—We send the survey to employees, customers, suppliers, NGOs, community partners, 
government or regulatory agencies, investors, trade organizations and consumers, and post it publicly on social media.  
More than 1,250 participants responded to our most recent survey.
Step 3: Interview Stakeholders—We conduct interviews internally with global employees and external stakeholders.  
In addition, as part of our most recent assessment, Sustainable Brands interviewed five internal stakeholders, and  
Business for Social Responsibility interviewed five external stakeholders. 
Step 4: Validate—Campbell’s Sustainability Steering Committee and various leaders around the organization provide feedback 
on the issues and validate the results of the research, survey and interview process. The results are shared below, and are 
reevaluated and revalidated throughout the year to allow for the inclusion of major or minor shifts in issues of priority.
For a complete description of our Materiality Assessment, please see the Appendix.
ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIALIMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS
Animal WelfareResponsible 
Marketing
Logistics &
TransportationFood Waste
Human Rights 
in the Workplace
Public Policy 
& EngagementDeforestationHuman Rights 
in the Supply ChainResponsible 
LabelingEnergy 
Management
Packaging 
Footprint
Waste 
ReductionClimate 
ChangeWater 
StewardshipFood Safety 
& QualityTransparencyResponsible 
Sourcing
Health, Nutrition 
& WellnessSustainable 
Agriculture
Sustainable 
Business ModelsCommunity Involvement 
& Food Access
Business 
Ethics
Occupational 
Health & Safety
Culture & Talent 
Management 
Diversity 
& Inclusion
IMPORTANCE TO THE BUSINESSIssues of importance to certain stakeholder groups 
monitored & addressed as necessaryIssues actively managed & addressed in the report but as 
part of one of the 11 key material issuesKey Material Issues addressed through business 
strategies & in the report
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
13
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT CAMPBELLUNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE 
DEVELOPMENT GOALS  
In 2015, world leaders at the General Assembly of the United Nations (UN) adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development. Making up the foundation of this 2030 Agenda are 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that are 
meant to transform our world in the areas of people, planet, prosperity, peace and partnership. While Campbell’s material 
corporate responsibility initiatives and commitments map to all 17 goals (see page 78), we have prioritized the following  
six goals for our business. You can learn more about our commitments on page 9 of this Report.
UN SDGs Our Commitments
Campbell is improving food security and nutrition by:
•  investing in food innovations that enable consumer health and well-being
•  crafting food that is accessible to all as part of our Real Food Philosophy
•  enabling access to affordable, healthy food through the Healthy Corner  
Store Network
Campbell is promoting good health and well-being by: 
•  increasing positive ingredients, like vegetables and whole grains
• reducing negative nutrients, like sodium and sugar 
•  removing substances of consumer concern like artificial colors and flavors, 
antibiotics in chicken meat and BPA linings in steel cans
Campbell is promoting decent work for all by: 
•  ensuring all Campbell-owned facilities comply with our Human Rights Principles
• continuing to build a safety-focused culture with a long-term goal of zero incidents
•  enforcing our Responsible Sourcing Supplier Code to identify and eliminate labor 
violations in our supply chain, if any
Campbell is reducing inequality by: 
•  crafting food that is accessible to all as part of our Real Food Philosophy
•  enforcing our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Responsible Sourcing 
Supplier Code to identify and eliminate labor violations, if any, and ensure equal 
opportunities for all
Campbell is promoting sustainable consumption and production by: 
•  committing to responsibly source and trace 16 priority raw materials
•  reducing water use by 20%, waste sent to landfills by 25% and food waste  
by 50%
•  ethically sourcing ingredients through commitments to certified palm oil,  
cage-free eggs and crate-free pork
Campbell is combatting climate change and its impacts by: 
•  reducing operational greenhouse gas emissions
•  sourcing electricity from renewable sources and advocating for responsible  
climate policy
•  employing sustainable agriculture programs to improve fertilizer efficiency and 
develop more climate-resilient agriculture
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
14
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT CAMPBELLSTAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Proactive and consistent engagement with both internal and external stakeholders is critical to effectively executing 
our corporate responsibility strategy. Our approach to stakeholder engagement includes:
•  Identification of issues that are most important to stakeholders
•  Establishment of processes for meaningful and effective engagement
•  Benchmarking for leadership performance within and outside our sector
The following table summarizes our engagement with major stakeholder groups: 
STAKEHOLDERS TYPES OF ENGAGEMENT ISSUES
Advocacy Groups/Non-
Governmental Organizations 
(NGOs)• Organizational Memberships
• Direct Engagement
• Strategic Issue Partnerships
• Professional Conferences
• Roundtable Events
• Social Media• Health, Nutrition & Wellness
• Nutrition & Labeling Standards
• Animal Welfare
• Deforestation
• Climate Change
• Human Rights
• Sustainable Agriculture
Communities • Direct, On-the-Ground Relationships
• Corporate & Employee Giving
• Networking Events
• Surveys
• Signature Partnerships 
• Regional Priority Plans 
• Employee Volunteerism• Critical Local Needs (such as food access  
and nutrition education)
• Disaster Relief
• Environmental Initiatives
• Health, Nutrition & Wellness
• Strategic Partnership Priorities  
(such as health and well-being)
Consumers • Dedicated 24-Hour Toll-Free Hotline
• Consumer Insights
• Branded Websites
• Campbell’s Kitchen® Website
• Campbell’s Nutrition Website
• What’s in My Food Website
• Social Media
• Uncanned® by Campbell’s Website• Food Safety & Quality
• Transparency
• Packaging Information
• Health, Nutrition & Wellness
• Affordability
• Food Waste
• GMOs
• Environmental Practices
Customers • Dedicated Customer Teams
• Top-to-Top Customer Meetings
• Customer Surveys
• Industry Trade Groups (such as FMI and  
Consumer Goods Forum)• Product Innovation
• Trade Practices
• Social Accountability
• Environmental Practices
• Transparency
• Sales Support & Service
• Health, Nutrition & Wellness
Employees • Quarterly Employee Forums
• Town Hall Meetings
• Campbell id Networks
• Interactive Workplace by Facebook Site
• Anonymous Hotline• Diversity & Inclusion
• Occupational Health & Safety
• Recognition
• Equitable Compensation & Benefits
• Talent Management
• Business Trends
• Health, Nutrition & Wellness
Investors • Meetings with Institutional and Socially Responsible 
Investors
• Direct Engagement on Specific Topics of Interest
• Ratings/Rankings & Indices
• Annual Report
• Annual Shareholder Meetings
• Investor Calls and Forums• Business Performance
• Governance Practices
• Sustainability Strategies
• Health & Well-Being Strategies
• Ethical Business Practices
• Human Rights
• Nutrition
Regulators & Policymakers • Campbell Political Action Committee
• Direct Engagement on Issues Important to Campbell
• Advocacy
• Significant Monitoring and Communication  
of Regulatory Activities
• Industry Trade Associations• Food Safety & Quality
• Product Labeling
• Trade Policy Implications
• Health, Nutrition & Wellness Policy
• Environmental Policy
• Sustainable Agriculture
Suppliers • Collaborative Partnerships
• Responsible Sourcing Supplier Code
• Strategic Relationship Management Program 
• Face-to-Face Meetings
• Supplier Diversity Program
• Surveys
• Assessments & Audits• Product Safety & Quality
• Human Rights
• Ethical Sourcing
• Sustainable Packaging
• Ingredient Traceability
• Cost-Savings Opportunities
• Supply Chain Risk Mitigation
• Sustainable Agriculture
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
15
GROWN
Tradition Meets  
Technology  
at Bolthouse Farms
PAGE 18
PAGE 20Report Cards Extend All 
the Way to the Farm 
PAGE 21Making  
Sustainable 
Agriculture 
the Norm  
2020 Tomato Goals:  
Where We Stand 
PAGE 20
PAGE 21Growing Tomatoes  
Is a Family Affair
16 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTHow We Manage Metrics That Matter
We believe that real food has roots. It should be made with 
recognizable, desirable ingredients from plants or animals. 
Real food is also prepared with care, which includes how our 
ingredients are grown. These beliefs are nothing new; our 
company has worked closely with local and regional farmers 
since our earliest days. 
Today, as the world’s population grows—and along with it, the 
demand for land, water and food—we’re increasingly aware that 
the capacity of our current agricultural system is finite. Adding 
to this uncertainty are the potential risks to the food system 
posed by a changing climate. For these reasons and more, we 
are working to optimize agricultural supply chains to ensure their 
resilience in an increasingly volatile and changing environment.
Farming itself is responsible for significant environmental impacts. 
Crop irrigation is often the largest contributor to a food product’s 
water footprint, and fertilizer production and use is often the 
largest contributor to its GHG footprint. Today’s consumers 
understand these issues and have demonstrated that they will 
consider how a product was grown when they choose what 
foods to eat. 
That’s why Campbell is driving responsible and resilient agriculture 
to protect the long-term viability of the farms and ecosystems from 
which we source our ingredients. Through the work of our Director 
of Sustainable Agriculture and Sustainable Agriculture Manager, 
we are helping secure natural resources and livelihoods on farms 
by sharing the latest knowledge on sustainable and precision 
agriculture, promoting adoption of more efficient practices 
industry-wide, and investing in agricultural innovations and data 
analytics. This helps our farmers make better-informed decisions 
about how to manage their land and helps Campbell be more 
transparent with consumers about the full scope of our impacts. 
Through the Campbell Soup Company Fund for Research in 
Sustainable Agriculture in Vegetables at UC Davis, we continue 
to fund education and public outreach about natural pest 
management, soil health, crop rotation and cover crops, nitrogen 
uptake, and drought and water management. This important 
agricultural research will help to identify long-term opportunities 
to advance sustainable farm management practices.
Real food begins on the farm. We’re doing our part to ensure that 
growers can keep growing, so we can continue sharing real food 
for generations to come. NITROGEN USE1  
(lb N/tonne tomato)
4.04
‘15
4.28
‘12
4.12
‘16
4.12
‘17
4.33
‘18
3.85
‘20
‘15‘12 ‘16‘17‘18‘20
‘15‘12 ‘16‘17‘18‘20
9.65
8.48
7.53
7.53
8.16
7.72
0.0060
0.0073
0.0057
0.0057
0.0060
0.0058
4.04
‘15
4.28
‘12
4.12
‘16
4.12
‘17
4.33
‘18
3.85
‘20
‘15‘12 ‘16‘17‘18‘20
‘15‘12 ‘16‘17‘18‘20
9.65
8.48
7.53
7.53
8.16
7.72
0.0060
0.0073
0.0057
0.0057
0.0060
0.0058WATER USE 
(gal/lb tomato)
4.04
‘15
4.28
‘12
4.12
‘16
4.12
‘17
4.33
‘18
3.85
‘20
‘15‘12 ‘16‘17‘18‘20
‘15‘12 ‘16‘17‘18‘20
9.65
8.48
7.53
7.53
8.16
7.72
0.0060
0.0073
0.0057
0.0057
0.0060
0.0058GHG EMISSIONS FROM  
NITROGEN USE 
(kg CO2e/tonne tomato) ↑1%
since 2012
↓15%
since 2012
↓18%
since 2012■ baseline
■ goal
■ baseline
■ goal
■ baseline
■ goal
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 171  Nitrogen use increased among Campbell’s tomato 
growers in FY2018, primarily because of difficult  
growing conditions, which resulted in the increased  
application of fertilizer to ensure economic yields  
were met.GROWN
Farming has always required a precise 
understanding of many variables: water 
and nutrient levels, soil quality and 
sunlight. Farmers judged when to plant 
and how to care for their crops, using 
knowledge passed down by generations 
before them and intuition refined by 
years of experience. 
Now, the tools at farmers’ disposal are 
significantly more advanced. Sensors, 
drones, data analytics software and 
other technologies allow for precision 
agriculture, giving farmers more detailed information more easily. This helps them 
provide exactly what their crops need 
when they need it. 
With a farming history dating back  
more than 100 years, Bolthouse Farms 
understands the traditional ways of 
tending to a field, but is also embracing 
new technologies through investment 
in precision agriculture tools that are 
delivering higher yields and more 
efficient use of natural resources.Tradition Meets Technology at 
Bolthouse Farms 
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 18How Bolthouse Farms 
Grows Better Carrots  
More SustainablyPlanting seeds varying 
distances apart yields 
differently shaped carrots. 
We sell thick carrots whole 
and slice narrow ones into 
baby-cut size.
A specialized 
machine uses 
electroconductivity 
to map soil types 
so we can optimize 
planting and 
apply variable and 
accurate levels 
of crop nutrients 
across a field.
Pest control advisors visit fields 
frequently to assess what pests 
are present and how to address 
them in a responsible manner 
to avoid unnecessary pesticide 
applications.A fleet of GPS-
driven tractors, 
planters, harvesters 
and accompanying 
equipment ensures 
that carrots are 
planted in straight 
rows, allowing 
nearly every carrot 
to be harvested. 
This not only 
reduces waste 
but makes more 
efficient use of our 
resources.By removing more dirt 
from carrots during 
harvest, we leave 
more soil in the field 
and limit the weight of 
carrot loads trucked 
from the fields—which 
in turn reduces fuel 
consumption, water 
needed to clean the 
carrots and waste at 
the plant.We evaluate our seed 
choices every year, testing 
new varieties to see what 
works best.
Carrot tissue samples 
allow us to monitor 
nutrient levels and make 
science-based decisions 
about the optimal amount 
of inputs, like nitrogen, 
to apply throughout the 
season to avoid waste  
and nutrient runoff.Newer, more efficient 
irrigation pipes take 
less power and water to 
irrigate the fields with 
less leakage.Tradition Meets Technology at Bolthouse Farms, cont.
GROWN
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 19GROWN
As part of our effort to support our 
farmers in developing sustainable 
growing practices and drive environ-
mental improvement, Campbell collects 
data from our tomato growers and pro-
vides report cards back to them that 
benchmark their resource use compared 
to their peers within Campbell’s family 
of growers. We also connect tomato 
farmers to educational materials and the latest research, including information 
on how to use fertilizer more efficiently 
and how to apply for grants to fund drip 
irrigation systems that conserve water. 
While our tomato growers use 
sophisticated technology to collect data 
about their own operations, Campbell’s 
report cards allow them to see how 
their efforts stack up against other growers like them. This transparency 
provides invaluable insight and 
encourages strong collaborations 
between Campbell and our farmers—
which leads to more sustainable 
growing practices and financial 
benefits for farmers. Report Cards Extend All the Way to the Farm 
In 2012, we set a goal to reduce GHG emissions from 
nitrogen use per tonne of tomatoes by 20 percent and 
reduce water use per pound of tomatoes by 20 percent 
by the end of 2020. We’re proud to share that we’ve made 
substantial progress on both of these goals, but saw some 
setbacks in FY2018 due to unfavorable weather conditions. 
Heavy rains during the planting season delayed planting 
and forced farmers to plant during less than ideal conditions. 
A common practice is to use additional fertilizer to manage 
these poor conditions during the rest of the season. As a 
result, our progress was significantly impacted on our third 
goal to reduce nitrogen applied per pound of tomatoes by  
10 percent. Despite this outcome, our farmers continue 
to invest in drip irrigation technologies, which can more 
precisely deliver nitrogen to the plant, reducing the risk of 
nutrient runoff that can pollute waterways. In FY2018,  
72 percent of acres farmed for Campbell tomatoes used  
drip irrigation systems.2020 Tomato Goals: 
Where We Stand 
Over 90 percent of  
our tomatoes come  
from family farms  
in California
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
20
GROWNFor the Yeung family, farming roots —  
and connections to Campbell Soup 
Company — run deep. Joe Yeung 
emigrated from China in 1948 and began 
farming. Over time, Joe’s son Richard 
began farming with his dad, and in 
2000 they began growing tomatoes 
for Campbell. As he transitioned into 
retirement, Joe assumed that Richard’s 
own son would one day continue  
the tradition.
Richard did have a son, but he also had 
two daughters, Melissa and Becky. As 
luck would have it, Melissa worked in 
the agriculture department of Campbell 
Soup Company, and Becky worked for 
a company growing tomato seedlings 
used by Campbell tomato farmers. Both 
women had insights into innovations 
in agriculture, and five years ago, they 
decided to leave their jobs to farm full-
time. Now, they manage the Campbell 
tomato contract with Joe Yeung Farms. 
The sisters rely on the knowledge of 
their father and grandfather, but have 
also made significant changes on the farm. For example, they initiated drip 
irrigation to reduce water use and 
purchased advanced tillage equipment 
to reduce the number of tractor trips 
through the field (and associated fuel 
use and carbon emissions). Taking 
the best of both past knowledge 
and present technology, the women 
are ensuring that their family farm is 
sustained for the next generation. And 
that next generation might just turn out 
to be their own daughters.Growing Tomatoes Is a Family Affair
Reviving the Soup 
That Started It All 
To celebrate our Real Food 
heritage, a team of Campbell 
employees brought a 100-year-
old tomato soup recipe back  
to life. Following instructions 
handwritten by John Dorrance, 
who invented condensed soup 
and is responsible for making 
soup our middle name, we 
sourced local New Jersey 
beefsteak tomatoes and cooked 
up a batch in our pilot plant.  
The result was delicious. The 
limited edition jars have been 
sold at Cracker Barrel stores in 
New Jersey and Pennsylvania.
With Goldfish® crackers, Milano® cookies 
and many other baked goods in our 
portfolio, Campbell has identified wheat 
as a priority ingredient to source more 
sustainably. We have partnered with the 
Environmental Defense Fund (EDF) and 
Land O’Lakes’ SUSTAIN program to do 
our part to make fertilizer efficiency 
and soil health the norm in U.S. grain 
production, not only because of the 
environmental benefits, but also to help 
improve farmers’ bottom lines. 
SUSTAIN provides practical tools, 
products and practices that are 
available to farmers through Land O’Lakes’ network of agricultural 
retailers. Agricultural retailers serve 
as trusted advisors to farmers, and 
SUSTAIN trains them on ways to 
improve air, water and soil quality, 
while increasing yields, improving 
soil health and building resilience to 
unpredictable climate conditions. Using 
the power of this network, SUSTAIN 
hopes to eventually reach thousands of 
U.S. farmers working millions of acres 
of crops, tipping the balance in favor 
of more sustainable growing practices 
nationwide. Campbell is committed to 
optimizing fertilizer use on 70,000 acres 
of wheat and is deploying SUSTAIN in our Pepperidge Farm sourcing regions 
to help achieve this goal. In FY2018, we 
enrolled 10,000 acres toward our goal.Making Sustainable Agriculture the Norm 
Our Wheat Goal:
Enroll
70,000
acres of wheat  
in a fertilizer  
optimization plan by 2020
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
21
Hear more about the Yeung sisters in this podcast.SOURCED
A More Transparent  
PALM OIL SUPPLY 
CHAIN
PAGE 27  
PAGE 24Our Strategic  
Focus Areas  
and Goals
A Triple Win for  
Arnott’s 
PAGE 28
A Packaging Evolution  
at Plum Organics
PAGE 27
Making  
Progress on  
Animal Welfare
PAGE 26
22 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 22How We Manage Metrics That Matter
Transparency builds trust. That’s why we’re working to set 
the standard for transparency, with the goal of becoming the 
world’s most trusted food company. By improving transparency 
from farm to fork, we can ensure that ethical and sustainable 
practices are used across our entire supply chain. Knowing how 
our ingredients are produced and where they come from has 
become more important than ever as we expand our product 
portfolio to meet the needs of our diverse consumer base. 
This includes adding unique ingredients from new places, like 
cinnamon from Asia and quinoa from South America. As our 
supply chain grows more complex, it is important for us to build 
mechanisms for transparency to understand and minimize risks 
related to human rights, animal welfare, climate change and 
unsustainable resource consumption.
 
To help build this transparency, Campbell’s Procurement team 
has revamped its Strategic Relationship Management (SRM) 
program. This program focuses on Campbell’s key suppliers, and 
social and environmental responsibility are included as elements 
of the program. We engage with these suppliers through top-to-
top meetings, in-person workshops and surveys. Suppliers will 
be rated on their performance against several key elements, one 
of which is sustainability.
To live into our Real Food Philosophy and our commitment to build 
trust through transparency, we created a responsible sourcing 
function in 2016 that reports to Campbell’s Procurement team and 
is focused on building a holistic strategy for managing social issues 
such as human rights and animal welfare along the supply chain. 
We have identified four strategic focus areas that align with our  
Real Food Philosophy and help pave the way for us to become  
a leader in ethical and sustainable sourcing. RESPONSIBLY SOURCED  
PALM OIL (RSPO) AS A PERCENTAGE OF  
TOTAL PALM OIL PURCHASES
CRATE-FREE PORK AS A PERCENTAGE  
OF TOTAL PORK PURCHASES 
PERCENTAGE OF CANS  
TRANSITIONED TO NON-BPA LINING
CAGE-FREE EGGS AS A PERCENTAGE  
OF TOTAL EGG PURCHASES
“NO ANTIBIOTICS EVER” CHICKEN100%1
2018
57%
2018
100%
2018
16%
2018
98%
2018
1  The progress reported here represents Campbell’s 
portfolio prior to the acquisition of Snyder’s-Lance.  
We are working to integrate Snyder’s-Lance’s sourcing 
into our certified sustainable supply.
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 23PRODUCEDSOURCED
 FOCUS AREA: Responsibly source 
ingredients, packaging and services 
for our products and operations 
We strive to procure ingredients, 
packaging and services from suppliers 
who share our commitment to 
environmental stewardship, ethical 
business practices and diversity. Our 
Responsible Sourcing Supplier Code  
is applicable to all suppliers globally. 
The Code is the foundation of our 
Responsible Sourcing Program, which  
is currently being rolled out to our 
suppliers. In FY2018, we began to communicate the Code to the suppliers 
of our priority raw materials. The Program 
incorporates a holistic approach of 
education and compliance, such as 
training for Campbell’s buyers globally, 
supplier training and supplier audits.  
In FY2018, we trained 100 percent of  
our buyers globally on our Responsible 
Sourcing Program. 
Responsible sourcing extends to the 
animal products used in our food, 
including eggs, chicken, pork and beef. 
In FY2017, we rolled out new Animal 
Welfare Guidelines, which included a new commitment to broiler chicken 
welfare. We are making progress 
on our pledges regarding cage-free 
eggs and gestation crates for hogs. 
Campbell is also working to address 
ingredients whose sourcing may have 
unintended social or environmental 
impacts, such as deforestation resulting 
from palm oil cultivation. 
 GOAL: By 2025: Responsibly  
source 100% of priority raw materials 
PROGRESS: We continue to build 
management systems internally to 
define our scope and baseline.Our Strategic Focus Areas and Goals
Priority Raw Materials
AGRICUL TURE Tomatoes Carrots Jalapeños Potatoes
ANIMAL WELFARE Chicken Seafood Pork Eggs
COMMODITIES Wheat Chocolate Dairy Sweeteners
DEFORESTATION Paper Packaging Beef Palm Oil  Soy
Priority raw materials were identified using information including: social and environmental risk, volumes, annual spend, existing commitments and importance to key products.
24 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 24 FOCUS AREA: Develop a diverse  
supply base that reflects the 
demographics of our consumers
Supplier diversity adds value to  
our long-term growth, strengthens 
our competitive advantage and can 
increase market share and shareholder 
return. Our supplier diversity program 
is focused on strengthening our 
U.S. supply base by offering diverse suppliers equal access to potential 
business opportunities.
 GOAL: By 2020: Measurably 
advance Campbell’s Supplier  
Diversity Program
PROGRESS: We continue to build 
management systems internally  
to define our scope and baseline.Our Strategic Focus Areas and Goals, cont.
 FOCUS AREA: Advance respect  
for human rights in our operations  
and across our supply chain
Our commitment to real food extends 
to protecting the human rights of the 
people along our supply chain, but it 
starts with our own employees. In our 
own operations, we hold ourselves 
accountable to a set of Human Rights 
Principles to ensure we are treating 
our own employees with respect and 
are compliant with industry standards. 
We updated Campbell’s Human Rights 
Principles in 2017 to include and codify 
our long-standing policy for ensuring 
no forced labor exists in our own 
operations. These Principles are the foundation of a new internal Social 
Accountability Program which is under 
development and will include employee 
training, proactive internal facility audits, 
and alignment between our internal 
Code of Conduct and Responsible 
Sourcing Supplier Code.
 GOAL: By 2020: Proactively assess 
100 percent of Campbell-owned 
facilities for compliance with Human 
Rights Principles
PROGRESS: In FY2018, we assessed 
21 percent of Campbell-owned facilities 
for compliance with our Human Rights 
Principles. FOCUS AREA: Improve capabilities 
for farm to fork traceability
We know that today’s consumers want 
to know exactly what’s in the food 
they are feeding their families, down 
to where the ingredients in those 
foods come from. We are committed to 
traceability of the priority raw materials 
that go into our products, and as 
technologies like blockchain become more widespread, we are exploring 
ways to build full traceability in our 
supply chain from farm to fork. 
 GOAL: By 2025: 100 percent of 
priority raw materials are traceable  
to country of origin
PROGRESS: We continue to build 
management systems internally  
to define our scope and baseline.
Diverse Suppliers  
for a Diverse 
Consumer Base 
Through support of minority- 
and women-owned businesses, 
Campbell has increased 
our social impact on local 
communities by offering 
employment opportunities, 
modeling behavior for younger 
generations and encouraging 
purchases from other diverse 
businesses. We’ve also 
witnessed competitive cost 
and quality improvements, 
responsiveness and agility to 
adapt to changing business 
needs, dedicated and enhanced 
customer service, and fresh 
perspectives that promote 
innovation. In FY2017, we 
updated our Supplier Diversity 
Commitment and joined 
Walmart and other consumer 
goods companies in collectively 
reporting our annual spend with 
women-owned businesses. 
PRODUCEDSOURCED
25 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 25PRODUCEDSOURCEDThe humane treatment of animals 
is an important part of our vision for 
a responsible supply chain. NGOs, 
consumers and other outside experts 
have shared concerns about the 
welfare of animals whose meat and 
eggs are present in our food, as well 
as the negative environmental, health 
and social consequences of certain 
practices. We’re listening and moving  
to address concerns.
Changes such as these are complicated 
and require time, investment and 
partnership to succeed. They must also 
align with our commitment to ensuring 
access to good, affordable food for our 
consumers. We will continue to work 
with NGOs, growers, suppliers, peers 
and other industry stakeholders to 
identify cost-effective solutions for 
our industry. 
Cage-Free Eggs 
We have committed to sourcing 
exclusively cage-free eggs globally by 
2025. As of August 2018, 16 percent of 
Campbell’s egg supply was cage-free. 
Kelsen and Arnott’s are leading the 
way in this effort, as both have already 
transitioned to cage-free eggs. 
Broiler Chickens
In 2017, Campbell implemented a Whole 
Bird Model for sourcing our chicken 
meat in the U.S. and Canada. In addition 
to the economic benefits, this model 
gives us visibility into the entire life cycle 
of the chicken, from egg incubation and 
hatching to growth and processing. This 
has been instrumental in ensuring that 
chicken meat in our North American 
product portfolio is raised with No 
Antibiotics Ever (NAE).In addition, we committed to working 
with our suppliers to improve the 
treatment of broiler chickens while 
thoughtfully addressing the impact of 
these standards on the farmers from 
whom we source. We aim to move our 
U.S. chicken meat supply to a higher 
standard of animal welfare by 2024  
that includes: 
• Transitioning to breeds of birds 
approved by Royal Society for the 
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals 
(RSPCA) or the Global Animal 
Partnership (GAP), which are 
scientifically recognized as having 
higher welfare outcomes
• Providing more space for chickens 
by reducing stocking density to a 
maximum of six pounds per square foot
• Offering improved environments 
including litter, lighting and enrichment 
that meet GAP’s new standards
• Processing chickens in a manner 
that avoids pre-stun handling and 
instead uses multistep, controlled 
atmospheric stunning
• Using third-party auditing to ensure 
compliance
Pork
In 2012, we made a commitment to 
eliminate gestation crates from our 
pork supply chain. With our suppliers’ 
engagement, we intend to reach that 
goal no later than 2022. We have made 
progress on this commitment, due to 
both favoring suppliers that raise hogs 
in a gestation crate-free environment 
and continuing to work with suppliers 
who have transitioned from crates to 
group housing. We also favor suppliers 
that can provide audit and tracking 
reports for sourcing of crate-free pork. 
As of August 2018, 57 percent of 
Campbell’s pork supply is crate-free. Making Progress on Animal Welfare 
Cage-free eggs
by 2025
Higher animal  
welfare standards  
for broiler chickens
by 2024
Crate-free pork
by 2022Our Animal Welfare  
Commitments
26
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT26
PRODUCEDSOURCEDPalm oil is the most widely consumed 
vegetable oil around the world and 
is used as an ingredient in some of 
Campbell’s snacking products, such 
as cookies and crackers. It requires 
less land to grow than soya, rapeseed 
and sunflower, the other three major 
oil-producing crops, and can also 
support jobs in emerging economies. 
However, improper sourcing of palm 
oil can contribute to deforestation, 
which can increase global GHG 
emissions, harm wildlife and impact 
vulnerable communities. For these 
reasons, Campbell is working to ensure 
responsible sourcing and traceability  
of palm oil used in our products.
In 2016, Campbell achieved its goal of 
using 100 percent certified Responsibly 
Sourced Palm Oil (RSPO) in our global 
operations. We have also committed to 
providing full plantation-level traceability 
and communicating our progress in our 
Sustainable Palm Oil Sourcing Guidelines . In March 2018, Campbell acquired the 
Snyder’s-Lance portfolio of brands.  
We are committed to integrating 
Snyder’s-Lance’s sourcing into our 
certified sustainable supply as we 
integrate the business. 
In our Arnott’s and Kelsen businesses, 
we have taken it a step further and use 
100 percent segregated palm oil, ensuring 
that all palm oil originates from RSPO 
plantations and is fully traceable.
Sustainably sourced palm oil has been 
a priority at Arnott’s for years, due in part 
to the Australian market’s proximity to 
Indonesia and Malaysia, the source of 
roughly 85 percent of global palm oil. 
Engagement with consumers and NGOs 
near Arnott’s Australian headquarters 
has helped the brand emerge as a 
leader on this issue and earn a perfect 
score on the World Wildlife Fund’s 2016 
Palm Oil Buyers Scorecard. A More Transparent Palm Oil Supply Chain 
Where Does 
Arnott’s Chocolate 
Come From? 
Cocoa liquor is what gives 
Arnott’s biscuits their distinctive 
taste. Our cocoa liquor comes 
from beans grown in Southeast 
Asia and Ghana, and our 
biscuits contain blends of 
chocolate from both regions. 
Because ethical production 
issues, such as forced labor 
and child labor, exist for cocoa 
grown in West Africa, all of our 
chocolate from that region is 
certified Fair Trade. 
A Packaging Evolution at Plum Organics
Responsible sourcing extends beyond the ingredients in our food. It also includes 
a focus on the packaging in which we deliver our products. Plum Organics, a Public 
Benefit Corporation and certified B Corp, is making progress on packaging sustainability 
in ways both big and small.
Improved Retail Cartons 
In FY2017, Plum Organics transitioned 
100 percent of its pouch portfolio to  
a six-pouch, 100-percent recyclable 
corrugated carton and eliminated the 
need for an additional corrugated shipping 
box. This reduced our total corrugated 
packaging weight by 40 percent. We 
eliminated this extra layer of packaging 
by upgrading the cartons to “ship to 
sell” status, adding shelf-ready graphics 
and perforation to each box. Strong Partnerships
Plum Organics partners with industry 
leaders, such as Materials Recovery for 
the Future and One Step Closer to an 
Organic and Sustainable Community 
(OSC2), to actively seek out new, more 
sustainable materials and end-of-life 
solutions for packaging waste. Plum 
Organics also remains a member  
of How2Recycle, a labeling system  
that makes it easier for consumers  
to recycle.11x Less 
packaging per gram of 
food in a Plum Organics® 
pouch vs. glass  
baby food jar 
27
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT27
PRODUCEDSOURCEDCampbell made a $40 million investment 
in new packaging capabilities to help 
Arnott’s address environmental, consumer 
and economic needs. Much of this invest-
ment is centered at Arnott’s Huntingwood 
bakery in Western Sydney, where a new 
Multi-Pack Centre equipped with state-
of-the-art equipment and technology was 
opened to support product and packag-
ing innovations. Biscuits produced in the 
facility are now packed into recyclable 
corrugated boxes, rather than the 
nonrecyclable plastic bags that once 
held multiple single-serving packs. The 
boxes are also more efficient to ship, 
which means fewer delivery trucks on 
the road. Once they arrive at supermarkets, 
products from the Multi-Pack Centre 
should also please consumers. The 
new corrugated packaging protects 
biscuits from breaking, is easier to 
navigate on store shelves and fits more 
neatly in a pantry. The Huntingwood 
facility employs more than 500 people, 
and is the latest recipient of Arnott’s 
investments in Australian manufacturing, 
which total more than a quarter of a 
billion dollars over the past five years. 
Through this project, Arnott’s managed 
to score a win for the environment, its 
consumers and its community. A Triple Win for Arnott’s 
73 tonnes
Can material reduced1,400 tonnes
Imported bleached liners converted 
to recycled liners made locally95%
Waste diverted from landfillsReceived Award for 
Outstanding Achievement in Packaging 
Design and overall Category Winner  
for Food and Beverage
The Australian Packaging Covenant (APC) 
A sustainable packaging initiative changing the culture of business by improving 
recycling and recovery of product packaging. In 2018, Campbell Arnott’s achieved the 
highest level of performance against the APC’s Packaging Sustainability Framework, 
Level 5—Beyond Best Practice, and was a top-tier APC signatory. Here are some of the 
achievements that contributed to our strong performance.
100%
Corrugate from  
sustainably managed forests
28
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT28
PRODUCED
Solar Energy Is 
Heating Up in 
Camden 
PAGE 31
Shipping  
Smarter With  
SmartWay®
PAGE 32PAGE 31Making Our  
Refrigeration Systems 
More Efficient 
PAGE 34Making the Most of 
Every Vegetable
Real Food  
Shouldn’t 
Go to Waste 
PAGE 33
How Arnott’s and  
Kelsen Are Doing  
More for the Planet 
PAGE 35
Working Together for 
Improved Food Safety 
PAGE 35
Managing  
Every Drop
PAGE 32
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
29
How We Manage Metrics That Matter
Real food is prepared with care. It should be crafted using sustainable 
practices that safeguard the natural resources we all share. That means 
producing our food with minimal impact on the environment, ensuring the 
safety and quality of every product we sell, and developing employees 
with the knowledge and tools they need to do their best work. 
A rising global population and accelerated resource use make a 
sustainable business model more important than ever. We have set 
aggressive targets to reduce our footprint, and our environmental 
management system helps us to better manage compliance, reduce 
costs and increase efficiencies. The risk of operating unsustainably is 
detrimental to long-term success and impacts profitability and reputation.
Our commitment to addressing the risks of climate change and reducing 
our environmental impact is unwavering. We continue to promote 
stewardship of natural resources in our operations through efficiency, 
low-carbon technologies and sustainable practices. Starting with our 
own operations, we are using our role as a leading food company to 
help tackle the global challenge of waste, especially food waste. We 
also continue to identify opportunities to reduce energy and water use. 
The global engineering team, in conjunction with the local facility 
engineers and Campbell’s sustainability team, transform these 
resource-reduction opportunities into actionable projects that bring 
about real change. Over the last 10 years, we have reduced GHG 
emissions intensity by 42 percent, energy intensity by 30 percent 
and water intensity by 37 percent. In FY2016, reflecting significant 
changes in our operations due to acquisitions and divestitures, we  
set new environmental targets for our operations. These targets use 
FY2017 as the base year and are more aggressive in that they require 
absolute reductions.
Food safety and quality are implicit requirements for any major food 
company. We are dedicated to ensuring that consumers are protected 
from foodborne illnesses, allergens or other health and safety concerns, 
and are transparent about what ingredients are present in our food. 
Campbell has a long history of regulatory compliance and is in 
compliance with all applicable regulations, including the provisions  
of the Food Safety Modernization Act (FSMA).
Animal Feed: 399,893
Aerobic Digestion: 20,692
Landﬁll: 13,470
Land Application: 9,144
Biomaterial Processing: 7,598
Anaerobic Digestion: 1,945
Controlled Combustion: 283
Total: 453,025
761.2
751.9725.0751.3
563.5
‘17 ‘2534.1
32.0 31.932.25
24.4
‘17 ‘25
51.9
49.044.2
40.0
30.0
‘17 ‘25418,185
209,093
‘17 ‘30
 
FOOD WASTE GENERATED 
(tonnes)GOALS
734.9
‘15
751.9
‘16725.0
‘17
751.3
‘18
563.5
‘25
 31.8
32.0
31.9
31.9
25.5
39.7
48.9
44.2
40.1
30.0‘15‘16‘17‘18‘25
‘15‘16‘17‘18‘25
 734.9
‘15
751.9
‘16725.0
‘17
751.3
‘18
563.5
‘25
 31.8
32.0
31.9
31.9
25.5
39.7
48.9
44.2
40.1
30.0‘15‘16‘17‘18‘25
‘15‘16‘17‘18‘25
 734.9
‘15
751.9
‘16725.0
‘17
751.3
‘18
563.5
‘25
 31.8
32.0
31.9
31.9
25.5
39.7
48.9
44.2
40.1
30.0‘15‘16‘17‘18‘25
‘15‘16‘17‘18‘25■ baseline
■ goal■ baseline
■ goal■ baseline
■ goalReduce GHG  
emissions by 
25% by 2025
Reduce water 
use by 20%  
by 2025
Reduce waste to 
landfills by 25%  
by 2025GHG EMISSIONS
(tonnes CO 2e, in thousands)
WATER USE
(cubic meters, in millions)
WASTE TO LANDFILL
(tonnes, in thousands)
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
30
PRODUCEDWe continue to expand our contribution 
to the clean energy economy through 
renewable energy installations. Our most 
recent is a 4.4 MW solar array installed 
at Campbell’s world headquarters in 
Camden, New Jersey, and is the largest 
solar array in the city. Through carport, 
rooftop and ground-mount solar solutions, 
we are generating the equivalent of 
20 percent of our world headquarters’ electricity demand and making use of 
an otherwise unusable brownfield. The 
project also features electric vehicle 
(EV) charging stations for Campbell 
employees, encouraging the use of EVs. 
This project joins four other existing 
renewable energy projects at Campbell 
facilities, a 9.8 MW solar array in 
Napoleon, Ohio; a 1 MW solar array in Bloomfield, Connecticut; and 1.2 MW 
and 1.4 MW fuel cells in Bloomfield, 
Connecticut. In total, Campbell contributes 
27 ,000 MWh of renewable energy to 
the grid annually.Solar Energy Is Heating Up in Camden
In alignment with the Montreal Protocol, 
Campbell has made a commitment to 
reduce the use of hydrochlorofluoro-
carbon (HCFC) refrigerants, specifically 
R22, at our facilities. HCFCs, such as 
R22, are known to deplete the ozone 
layer. At our Pepperidge Farm facil-
ities in Downingtown, Pennsylvania; 
Lakeland, Florida; Richmond, Utah; 
and Willard, Ohio, we phased out our 
R22 refrigerants by converting to low-
charge ammonia and CO 2, which are 
natural refrigerants. The use of natural  
refrigerants significantly improves energy efficiency, lowers energy costs and 
reduces GHG emissions, which contribute 
to climate change.
In FY2019, we will make the same 
conversion at our largest Pepperidge 
Farm facility in Denver, Pennsylvania, 
and in FY2020 we expect to convert 
our Arnott’s facility in Virginia, Australia, 
from R22 to ammonia. 
Campbell also commissioned a new 
CO 2 refrigeration system at its 
corporate headquarters in Camden, New Jersey. The CO 2 system provides 
refrigeration for our new centralized 
storage cooler and freezer facility in the 
corporate R&D pilot plant. In addition, 
we commissioned a CO 2 system for a 
new frozen bread line in Downingtown, 
Pennsylvania, in January 2018.
By transitioning to best-in-class 
refrigeration technology, Campbell is 
also aligned with the Consumer Goods 
Forum’s commitment to phase out 
hydrofluorocarbon (HFC) refrigerants.Making Our Refrigeration Systems More Efficient 
Campbell’s world headquarters 
in Camden, New Jersey
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
31
PRODUCED
Campbell participates in the U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency’s 
SmartWay® program, a voluntary 
system for tracking, documenting and 
sharing information about fuel use  
and GHG emissions across supply 
chains. SmartWay® partners are 
actively working to improve their  
fuel efficiency in order to reduce 
transportation-related emissions,  
and in FY2018, we moved nearly  
94 percent of our freight with these 
carriers. Because we move the 
majority of product using SmartWay® 
carriers, Campbell has been recognized 
as a SmartWay® Shipper Partner. Campbell 
also uses intermodal transportation, 
which combines rail and truck transport, 
to increase efficiency and lower 
emissions. We increased our intermodal 
transportation for shipments between 
plants from 61 percent to 63 percent 
in FY2018, and plan to increase use of this approach for inbound shipments 
and customer deliveries. This past 
year, we increased density on customer 
shipments, removing 558 trucks from 
the road and eliminating 480 tonnes 
CO 2e emissions. By increasing the 
weight per load shipped between plants, we also removed an additional 
570 trucks and eliminated over  
1,350 tonnes CO 2e emissions. In total, 
by increasing density per shipment, 
Campbell removed 1,128 trucks  
from the road and eliminated over 
1,800 tonnes CO 2e emissions. Shipping Smarter With SmartWay®
Water is a vital resource for communities 
and businesses. But, in many parts of the 
United States and around the world, this 
resource is at risk as a result of growing 
demand, pollution and climate change. 
With this top of mind, in FY2018, Campbell 
continued its water risk management 
practices and performed an in-depth 
water risk assessment using the WRI 
Aqueduct and Ecolab Water Risk 
Monetizer tools. We assessed current  
and future water risk at our manufacturing 
facilities globally, and identified sites of 
concern for present and future local  
water supply, water quality, water stress, flooding and seasonal and annual supply 
variability. Risks were assessed today and 
three, five and ten years into the future. 
These findings were cross-referenced 
against the financial risk exposure 
associated with disruption at each site. 
Incongruities between the tools and 
testing methods were examined, and 
sites and river basins with higher risk were 
identified. The initial results indicate that 
the St. Lawrence River Basin is vulnerable 
to water quality and quantity issues now 
and in the future, which puts Campbell’s 
Ohio facilities Napoleon and Willard at 
risk. The analysis also indicates that other sites exposed to higher water-related 
risks include Maxton, North Carolina, in 
the Pee Dee River Basin and Stockton, 
California, in the Sacramento River Basin. 
We will be expanding upon this initial 
analysis with stakeholder interviews to 
validate these results and identify oppor-
tunities to better mitigate risk and support 
watershed health. Recommendations will 
be shared with our manufacturing sites 
to ensure that Campbell can positively 
impact water supply, access to safe and 
clean water, and biodiversity that can be 
impacted by changes in water quantity 
and quality.Managing Every Drop
1,128  
Fewer Trucks on the Road = 
1,800 tonnes  
CO 2e Emissions
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
32
PRODUCEDThe statistics on food waste are hard to 
believe—but impossible to ignore. Across 
the world, roughly one-third of all food 
produced intended for human consumption 
is lost or wasted. At the same time, one 
in nine people remains undernourished. 
This inefficiency amounts to economic 
losses of close to $1 trillion per year. 
Campbell is committed to doing our 
part to address this challenge and has 
set a goal to cut our food waste in half 
by 2030, in line with UN Sustainable 
Development Goal 12.3.
Engaging With Our Peers
Campbell has been a leading voice in 
food waste measurement and reduction 
in industry and multistakeholder groups 
for several years, and is a member of the 
Consumer Goods Forum’s Food Waste 
Working Group, as well as The Sustain-  
ability Consortium’s Food Waste Task 
Force. We also continue to be engaged 
in Champions 12.3—a group of executives 
from government, business and civil society 
committed to accelerating progress on UN 
Sustainable Development Goal 12.3 to 
reduce food waste by 50 percent by 2030.Campbell participated in the 
development of the Food Loss and 
Waste Accounting and Reporting 
Standard with the World Resources 
Institute. This Standard, which we 
implemented in FY2017, provides 
guidance to more precisely measure 
the types of food waste generated in 
an organization’s operations and the 
destinations of those waste streams. 
This Standard has helped Campbell 
establish a baseline by which to 
measure and report on efforts to 
achieve our food waste reduction goal. 
Consistent with our commitment to 
transparency in all facets of our business, 
Campbell supports a product labeling 
framework that clearly communicates 
food quality and food safety. This stance 
aligns with the Consumer Goods 
Forum’s Call to Action on food date 
labeling. We believe that simplifying 
and harmonizing labels and establishing 
federal standards for “best if used by” 
and “use by” language will reduce 
consumer confusion and limit waste. A Closer Look at Our Operations 
We’re making progress against our 2030 
goal to reduce food waste by 50 percent. 
For example, we’ve reconfigured 
production equipment to decrease 
ingredient waste during processing. 
Lost ingredients are diverted to feed 
animals. And we’ve installed equipment  
to de-package products so that food can 
be sent to animal feed and packaging 
can be recycled.
Our Downers Grove site in Illinois that 
bakes fresh Pepperidge Farm bread 
every day reduced their food loss and 
waste by nearly 40 percent in FY2018. 
Through improved efficiencies, employee 
training and equipment downtime 
reductions, the site eliminated 215 tonnes 
of food that would otherwise have gone 
to waste. We found that there is a strong 
correlation between unscheduled 
downtime at the plant and food wasted. 
Because of this, we are performing 
maintenance inspections while the 
equipment is running. This has reduced 
downtime and, subsequently, food waste.Real Food Shouldn’t Go to Waste 
Campbell has  
set a goal to cut  
our food waste  
in half   
by 2030.
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
33
PRODUCEDCarrot processing at Bolthouse Farms is designed to make 
use of the entire carrot from tip to greens. Take a look: Making the Most of Every Vegetable 
Carrot tops are left behind 
in our fields to improve soil 
health.
Long narrow carrots bred for 
their sweet taste and small 
core are cut and peeled into 
baby carrots or chopped into 
time-saving products like 
Chips and Matchstix. 
Thicker whole carrots are 
bagged unpeeled for fresh 
produce sales.
Other whole carrots and 
broken pieces are juiced into 
fresh beverages, like our 
Mango Ginger + Carrot juice. 
Unripe tomatoes, stems 
and other plant material 
are returned to the ground 
at harvest to improve soil 
health. 
At our facilities, stems and 
damaged fruit are sorted and 
sent to nearby cattle farms for 
animal feed or to compost. 
Tomato peels and seeds 
become ingredients for  
animal feed and pet food. 
Fruit that doesn’t match the 
size needed to make diced 
tomatoes is rerouted to 
another production line to 
make tomato paste. 
In Campbell’s tomato operations, everything has a 
purpose, and nothing is wasted—practices that we think 
would make our company’s farming founders proud. 
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
34
PRODUCED
Preparing safe, high-quality food 
has always been one of Campbell’s 
fundamental strengths. We assess 
food safety risk in our operations in 
compliance with the current requirements 
of the Food Safety Modernization Act 
(FSMA) of 2011, and are always working to 
continually improve ahead of emerging 
requirements. FSMA aims to help food 
manufacturers shift their focus from 
resolving issues to preventing them from 
happening in the first place and is the 
most significant legislation passed on 
food safety in the last 30 years. 
With the acquisition of new companies, 
Campbell’s portfolio is becoming more 
diverse, making this a perfect time to 
enhance our quality controls. We have 
incorporated additional controls and 
prevention steps to mitigate food safety 
risks within our processes. In addition, all 
of our manufacturing facilities worldwide 
are audited and certified to the Global 
Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) standard. 
The rollout of FSMA has also been an 
opportunity for closer collaboration with 
our suppliers and across our industry. 
Members of Campbell’s food safety 
and quality team have participated in 
industry events to share expertise and set 
benchmarks. Over 100 of our employees 
have received FSMA-related training 
and certification. In addition, we’re 
working with our suppliers, particularly 
those with smaller operations, to help 
them provide the documentation that 
the law now requires. Thanks to FSMA, 
food is becoming safer worldwide, and 
Campbell is proud to help raise the bar. In FY2018, operations in our Asia-Pacific region reduced GHG emissions by  
3.9 percent across the region. Operations in Denmark were able to reduce 
electricity usage by 5 percent through efficiency and other improvements.  
Here are some of the projects that are contributing to our success.
Australia  
Huntingwood
Two new two-stage, air-cooled air 
compressors were installed, reducing 
the energy use required to produce the 
compressed air by 40 percent. We also 
replaced 1,200 fluorescent lights with LED 
lights, reducing electricity consumption 
for these lights by 50 percent.
Shepparton 
We installed three more highly efficient 
Synchronous reluctance motors (SynRM) 
on the refrigeration plant; further optimized 
operational controls; promoted behavioral 
changes; and expanded landfill diversion 
options to reduce energy use by  
9.8 percent, water use by 8.2 percent 
and waste sent to landfills by 32.5 percent 
since last year.
Virginia
A new wastewater treatment plant was 
installed for USD $2.4 million, ensuring 
discharge concentrations are within new, 
more stringent limits. Marleston
We replaced 1,270 fluorescent lights with 
LED lights and installed motion sensors 
that will save 400,000 kWh per year, 
reducing electricity usage for lighting 
these areas by 50 percent.
Denmark
Nørre Snede
All lighting in the plants and warehouse 
has been replaced with LEDs, saving 
750,000 kWh per year.
Ribe
We installed a new ventilation system 
in the packing area, which will now use 
ambient air cooling to cool the oven 
belt, saving 230,000 kWh per year.
Malaysia
We invested USD $350,000 to upgrade 
our wastewater treatment plant to comply 
with new local regulations. In addition, 
all air conditioners in the office using R22 
refrigerant were replaced with R410a,  
an ozone-friendly refrigerant. We have 
also replaced all office lighting with 
LEDs, and more than 60 percent of the 
plant is using LED lighting.
Indonesia
Our facilities passed audits from the 
provincial government and Ministry of 
Environment & Forestry.How Arnott’s and Kelsen Are  
Doing More for the Planet Working Together 
for Improved Food 
Safety 
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
35
SHARED  
Employees
How We’re Living  
Our Values
PAGE 38
Safety for Everyone, 
Every Day
PAGE 41PAGE 40Using  
Transparency 
to Transform  
Careers 
Helping 
Professionals  
Return to Work
PAGE 42
Campbell ID 
Networks Add 
Value
PAGE 43Benefits That Matter  
for Life’s Moments  
PAGE 39  
Using Technology to 
Transform Culture
PAGE 39
Helping Campbell  
Women Lift Each  
Other Up
PAGE 42
36
 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 36How We Manage Metrics That Matter How We Manage Metrics That Matter
The strength of our products depends on the strength of our 
workforce. We believe that creating a high-performance culture 
rooted in integrity, accountable for results and committed to 
bringing our Purpose to life is essential to the sustainability of 
our company. This requires the interplay of many elements, 
including talent management, business ethics, workplace 
safety and wellness, employee engagement and diversity 
and inclusion. Attracting, developing, engaging and retaining a 
diverse and high-performing workforce reflective of our consumer 
base is crucial to achieving our business objectives. To this 
end, Campbell’s HR department has hired a team dedicated to 
advancing diversity and inclusion throughout the organization.
In February 2017, Campbell launched a new communication  
and information-sharing platform to global salaried employees, 
Workplace by Facebook, which has transformed how employees 
connect and engage. The platform has facilitated cross-functional 
visibility, collaboration and recognition, which has increased 
employee engagement across the organization. It has also opened 
up new opportunities for employee engagement in sustainability 
through storytelling and competitions, which have encouraged 
positive behaviors like recycling and using reusable mugs.
EMPLOYEES BY GEOGRAPHY
EMPLOYEES BY AGE DEMOGRAPHICS  
(Global)
EMPLOYEES BY ETHNICITY  
(U.S. only)Americas: 74%
Europe: 3%
Asia-Paciﬁc: 23%
30 and under: 20%
31-50: 47%
51 and over: 33%
White: 53%
Hispanic or Latino: 24%
African American: 12%
Asian: 5%
Other: 4%
Did not Disclose: 2%
Americas: 74%
Europe: 3%
Asia-Paciﬁc: 23%
30 and under: 20%
31-50: 47%
51 and over: 33%
White: 53%
Hispanic or Latino: 24%
African American: 12%
Asian: 5%
Other: 4%
Did not Disclose: 2%
Americas: 74%
Europe: 3%
Asia-Paciﬁc: 23%
30 and under: 20%
31-50: 47%
51 and over: 33%
White: 53%
Hispanic or Latino: 24%
African American: 12%
Asian: 5%
Other: 4%
Did not Disclose: 2%
42%
Women as a percentage of 
global workforce 
43%
Women in global  
management position
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
37
SHAREDSHARED
Since 2014, we’ve been on a 
journey to become a purpose-driven 
organization. We began by defining 
our Purpose, Real food that matters 
for life’s moments, which helped us 
capture who we are, what we believe, 
and the company we want to be. We’ve 
made great progress on our journey, 
including our work to define what real 
food means to us through our Real 
Food Philosophy. But to truly activate the philosophy and become a purpose-
driven organization with innovation at 
the helm, we needed to reinvent our 
culture, and that started with answering 
a simple question—What do we value?
In 2016, the Campbell Leadership 
Team set out to answer that question. 
Each word was meticulously and 
purposefully chosen with the goal of 
redefining Campbell’s Values to create the behaviors and culture we need to 
live into our Purpose. We believe in 
these Values and the accompanying 
behaviors they put forth. Our Values are 
a representation of what our company 
and our people have always stood for, 
while inspiring us to embrace change 
to compete effectively in a dynamic 
marketplace.How We’re Living Our Values
More than a year after introducing 
these Values, we’re seeing them  
come to life in a variety of ways 
 across Campbell: 
• On our social network. Campbell 
employees interact on Workplace, 
an internal social media platform 
powered by Facebook. Our people 
have gotten creative and made the 
site their own, using the hashtag 
function to tag corporate Values in 
their posts. • In our talent development efforts. 
Our Values are being embedded 
into performance management 
internally and behavioral interviewing 
externally, allowing us to attract 
and retain individuals who share 
Campbell’s ideals. 
• In our training. We introduced new 
Campbell University training through 
which employees can learn how to 
apply the Values to their own work. 
Values 360 helps employees assess how well their own behaviors align 
with company standards. 
• From our leaders. Our C100, or the 
top 100 leaders within Campbell, are 
key to transforming our culture to 
reflect our Values. Leaders recorded 
a series of videos discussing what 
Campbell’s Values mean to them. Dare
to
DisruptSeek  
the Power  of  
DifferentDo Right  
 and
Be RealOwn it
like a
Founder
Build it Bold  
Risk Together,  
Reward Together  
Experiment Fast  
 to Learn Sooner  
Get 
Uncomfortable
Use Your Voice  
Be Open,  
Be Curious  
Listen for  
the Unexpected  
Be Different,  
Go Together
Always Act  
with Integrity  
Be Authentic  
Build Trust through 
Transparency  
Keep  
Your Word
Act like Your  
Name is on it  
See the Big Picture  
Make it Happen  
Fast 
Wear Your Passion  
on Your Sleeve
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
38
SHAREDSHARED
In 2016 an Internal Communications 
Survey uncovered that only 18 percent 
of employees thought our company 
internal communications were timely. 
They also believed that internal 
communications could be improved if 
they were more authentic, conversational, 
inclusive and accessible, and they were 
right. So, in 2017, Campbell launched 
Workplace by Facebook, a new 
technology and collaboration platform 
that has transformed the way we work 
and connect across the company. In less than a year, we saw a significant 
increase in engagement metrics compared 
to our previous internal communications 
platform, including an increase of  
121 percent in readership, a 201 percent 
increase in reactions and a 234 percent 
increase in commenting. Additionally,  
it was the first time employees globally 
were connected on the same platform. 
People across the organization are 
sharing stories about the individual 
parts they play in the Campbell narrative, which is helping Campbell to fix one-way 
and top-down communication. 
Today, our employees are more 
connected than we’ve ever been. We 
have marketers sharing product launches 
and new campaigns, employee affinity 
groups streaming live events to other 
locations, and executives commenting 
and engaging with employees at every 
level of the company.Using Technology to Transform CultureCampbell’s Purpose—Real food that 
matters for life’s moments—serves as a 
filter for decision-making in all aspects 
of our business, from the ingredients in 
our products to the ways we engage 
with consumers. Our choices about 
employee benefits are no exception. 
In 2016, we began offering 10 weeks of 
fully paid leave to primary caregivers 
and two weeks of fully paid leave to 
nonprimary caregivers in the U.S. 
following the birth or adoption of a child. 
We’re proud of this decision, which puts 
Campbell in a leading position in the  
U.S. food industry with respect to parental  
leave. Campbell parents are also excited about our new Family Center, located on 
the campus of our world headquarters 
in Camden, New Jersey. The center 
provides care for children from infancy 
through kindergarten and focuses on 
health and well-being, with nutritious food 
choices and optional activities like karate 
and dance. 
 
We’re continuing to engage with our 
employees on other benefits that matter 
to them. The company provides adoption 
assistance and includes fertility services 
and gender reassignment under its 
insurance coverage, alleviating financial 
barriers that may exist for employees. 
Beginning in 2017, Campbell began offering a majority of Medicare-eligible 
retirees access to health care coverage 
through a private exchange. This change 
gives our post-65 retirees greater choice 
and advocacy support to meet their 
individual needs. 
In line with our companywide commitment 
to well-being and health, we are in the 
process of revamping our employee 
well-being offerings and have formed  
a work group that will determine what 
benefits are most needed at each of  
our facilities. Our Purpose will continue  
to guide us as we explore additional 
benefits for Campbell employees and 
their families. Benefits That Matter for Life’s Moments 
Campbell’s Family Center
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
39
SHAREDSHARED
The makeup of Campbell’s workforce 
is changing, and with it, the resources 
our employees need to find meaning in 
their work and chart their career paths. 
We began to respond to this changing 
dynamic in 2016, when we conducted 
our most recent Drive Survey of salaried 
and hourly employees globally. 
From this survey, we learned that our 
employees wanted more meaningful  
and personal career conversations, more 
transparent access to opportunities and 
a more personal connection to their 
work. The Drive Survey identified gaps 
in resources for career development and 
in managers’ ability to help employees 
clarify and pursue their career goals. That’s why Campbell has been hard  
at work transforming the way that we 
help employees think about growth  
and development. 
Our Career Commitment 
The result is Our Career Commitment, 
a new talent development strategy 
rooted in transparency and intentionally 
designed to reflect our new way 
of looking at talent practices. The 
Commitment encourages employees  
to practice three habits: get to know the 
real you, explore real options and take 
real action. 
Our Career Commitment formally 
launched in 2017 with a career day at our 
global headquarters and subsequent 
events at facilities worldwide. An internal 
website, launched at the same time, gives 
employees resources to assist them in 
reflecting on their personal values and 
goals, learning about colleagues’ career 
paths and tuition assistance for continuing 
education, and applying for open roles 
within Campbell. 
An important part of this new framework 
is Campbell Gigs, a pilot program initially 
undertaken by our HR and Finance 
organizations. Gigs are voluntary side 
projects that employees can use to  
learn and support their career journeys 
with on-the-job skills. For example, 
an HR professional interested in 
communications could voluntarily work 
on a communication plan for the rollout 
of a new process, or an employee 
who wants to gain financial experience 
could participate in an audit process. 
Employees can explore, apply for and 
provide feedback on their Gig experiences 
using our Workday platform. After a 
successful pilot, we expanded Gigs 
across the organization in 2018 and 
have had nearly 100 employees 
complete a Gig this past fiscal year. Feedback from those involved have 
been overwhelmingly positive, with one 
participant sharing that her Gig “helped 
to breakdown silos and expand my 
network....this Gig experience has 
allowed me to explore my career 
potential, highlight my passions and 
brainstorm on the best ways I can 
contribute to Campbell.” She also 
shared that her Gig provided mentorship 
and that her Gig sponsor was an 
amazing teacher. We are excited for the 
potential career growth that Gigs can 
provide to Campbell employees.Using Transparency to Transform Careers 
We believe great 
careers are: 
SELF-DRIVEN
Discover your personal purpose 
and let it shape your path. We’ll 
help guide you. 
MULTIFACETED
Seek new opportunities that  
offer the greatest learning.  
Have courage to experiment  
and explore. 
LIMITLESS
Push yourself beyond your 
boundaries. The more you stretch, 
the greater your potential. 
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
40
SHAREDSHARED
Campbell’s relentless focus on employee 
safety has continually produced results 
that exceed industry benchmarks. In 
FY2017, we updated the tactics outlined 
in our Environmental Health & Safety 
strategy in the areas of leadership, 
employee engagement and safety 
systems. Underlying all new tactics is a 
deliberate focus on communication, 
transparency and reporting of results. 
For example, new Daily Direction Setting 
meetings provide routine, consistent communication on common safety 
hazards. Site Improvement Plans help 
individual plants identify unique ways to 
address concerns. And new training on 
ergonomics and slips, trips and falls is 
getting more employees engaged and 
thinking proactively about reducing risk. 
These tactics are paying off: Campbell 
saw a 14 percent reduction in its Total 
Reportable Incident Rate (1.37 to 1.18) 
between FY2017 and FY2018. And 
although the Lost Time Incident Rate increased by 5 percent (0.20 to 0.21), 
this is primarily due to improvements in 
data reporting and tracking at Campbell’s 
facilities. Though these are best-in-class 
achievements, we will continue to strive 
for zero injuries by focusing on the 
small, day-to-day actions that make 
everyone safer. Safety for Everyone, Every Day
Safety Starts With Us
Campbell cares about safety—of the food we serve, and of the people who make it. At plants across the world, our employees 
are identifying risks and implementing processes to keep themselves and their colleagues safe. Here are a few teams that 
excelled in the past year:
DENVER, PENNSYLVANIA
The Pepperidge Farm® Goldfish® team at our Denver bakery  
has achieved 730 days without a reportable incident.  
The team is committed to identifying and proactively 
addressing potential safety risks in the workplace.WILLARD, OHIO
By developing programs to address behaviors, conditions  
and risks, the Willard team has achieved 245 days without  
a reportable incident and has reduced overall reportable 
injuries by 75 percent over the last year. The team has 
implemented a Behavior Safety Observation Program  
to address behaviors; a Safety Tag Program to address 
conditions; and a Risk Assessment and Audit Program  
to expand inspections and reduce risks.
MARLESTON, AUSTRALIA
Our Marleston plant has reached three years without a  
Lost Time Incident (LTI) because of the team’s dedication  
and commitment to safety resulting in a strong safety  
culture. This has also resulted in an overall reduction  
of all injuries by 36 percent.
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
41
SHAREDSHARED
Helping Professionals Return to Work
Many professionals face the difficult 
choice of pausing their careers to care 
for others, from new children to aging 
parents. The longer an individual spends 
out of the workforce, the more difficult it 
can be to return—which is why Campbell 
is participating in a new program to aid in the transition. In 2017, we began a 
partnership with Path Forward, a program 
open to mid-career professionals who 
have at least five years of experience 
and are looking to return to work after 
taking a career pause of two years or 
more for caregiving. Participants take part in 16-week paid “returnships” that 
help them refresh their skills and better 
position them to be hired for full-time 
roles. Three people were hired for 
Campbell’s first Path Forward cohort.
How can a company make more room 
for women in top leadership positions? 
One way is to ensure that women are 
empowered and included at every step 
in the career pipeline. This was the thinking 
behind Be Real Circles, an opportunity 
for leading Campbell women to “pay it 
forward” to other women on their way up. 
The idea originated with a group of the 
company’s top female leaders. In 2017, 
these women decided to share what they’d learned with a wider audience. 
The Be Real Circles were launched as  
a pilot program by Women of Campbell 
(WoC) during Women’s History Month in 
March. Each Circle is facilitated by one  
of the female leaders, who mentors a 
group of no more than eight Campbell 
women. Circle leaders use a toolkit  
and discussion guides to help direct 
conversations—but the most valuable 
lessons may come in the form of advice 
on things they’ve learned firsthand.Through this program, WoC hopes to 
help more women at every level of 
the company build connections that 
broaden their networks, promote 
experiences that help women learn 
and grow, and build confidence in 
women’s leadership capabilities. Helping Campbell Women Lift Each Other Up
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
42
SHAREDSHARED
Campbell ID Networks Add Value
Campbell ID Networks provide community 
for our employees and help us connect to 
diverse consumer groups. Our affinity 
groups include Asian Network of Campbell 
(ANC), Black Resource Group (BRG), Bridge Network, Campbell 
Administrative Professionals (CAPs), 
Latino Network, Maxton American 
Indian Network (MAIN), Our Pride 
Employee Network (OPEN), Roots, Veterans Connection and Women  
of Campbell (WoC). Following are  
recent examples of how our ID 
Networks engage. 
VETERANS CONNECTION
Our newest ID Network is Veterans Connection, open  
to all military veterans and those who support them.  
The Network celebrated its launch with a military-
inspired cooking competition. Teams competed to 
impress a panel of judges by preparing an entrée, 
dessert and beverage using military field rations and  
a secret Campbell’s product.
LATINO NETWORK
The Latino Network partnered with the Digital Marketing 
campaign to help produce a commercial for Pace salsa. 
The commercial depicts actors preparing a meal of tacos 
and margaritas. Members of the Latino Network made 
suggestions to make the recipes more authentic, such  
as topping off both dishes with a squeeze of lime.
OUR PRIDE EMPLOYEE NETWORK
Goldfish® crackers made a colorful appearance in the 
Portland, Oregon, Pride parade. A team from Fred 
Meyer grocery store handed out two-ounce packets of 
Goldfish Colors to spectators. The Our Pride Employee 
Network (OPEN) in Norwalk, Connecticut, helped 
coordinate this partnership.
Our V8 +Energy® brand was also the proud Presenting 
Sponsor of the inaugural Pride Run 5K at the 30th 
Annual Philadelphia Pride Parade. Members of the 
OPEN Network, joined by family and friends, handed  
out delicious V8 +Energy drinks to keep attendees 
energized and hydrated.
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
43
What’s New in  
Real Food 
PAGE 46
What We’re Taking  
Out of Our Food 
PAGE 47
A Better Soup 
From the Can Up 
PAGE 48
Investing in the 
Future of Food
PAGE 51
Making Healthy  
Eating More  
Convenient
PAGE 52Putting  
Transparency  
on the Menu 
PAGE 49SHARED  
Consumers
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
44
How We Manage Metrics That Matter How We Manage Metrics That Matter1
Campbell’s Real Food Philosophy has revolutionized the way 
we think, talk and act about our food. We’re staying abreast of 
changes in food and nutrition to better understand how we can 
provide consumers with the healthy foods they desire and thus 
identify opportunities for growth. If Campbell doesn’t evolve with 
these changes, we risk being left behind. 
One important trend we’re addressing is consumer demand 
for greater transparency. Campbell is committed to setting 
the standard for transparency in the food industry, sharing 
more information about what goes into our food and listening 
more closely to consumers about what matters to them. These 
conversations have led us to add positive ingredients, like 
vegetables and whole grains, and minimize negative nutrients, 
like sodium and sugar; expand our organic offerings; and remove 
substances of consumer concern, like artificial colors and flavors, 
antibiotics in chicken meat and BPA linings in steel cans. 
This mindset has inspired brand-new products that deliver whole 
grains, vegetables, lean protein and plant-based options for 
consumers. These new products have required us to identify 
new suppliers, production methods and packaging alternatives, 
and, as we make progress, we’re sharing what we learn at every 
step. On the public policy front, we’re a leading advocate for 
guidelines that tell consumers more about what’s in their food, 
including mandatory labeling of GMOs. We believe that people 
have a right to know what they’re eating and feeding their 
families, and we will continue to push for greater transparency 
throughout our supply chain and across our industry. 
In response to global increases in chronic diseases and greater 
understanding of the links between food and health, we are also 
observing heightened consumer interest in fresh and healthy 
foods. Consumers are seeking out more nutritious, personalized 
food that suits their lifestyles and values. We’re seeing the 
emergence of an age in which shoppers purchase food online 
and use technology to track and monitor their personal health. 
As this new food future evolves, Campbell is committed to 
providing options that help consumers reach their health and 
wellness goals. SALES FROM PRODUCTS  
WITH REDUCED  
NEGATIVE NUTRIENTS2  
(revenue, in millions)
$6,096
$5,372
$5,691
$6,115
‘15‘16‘17‘18
57%
53%
55%
59%
‘14‘15‘16‘17
$3,238
$3,200
$3,297
$3,344
‘15‘16‘17‘18
34%
32%
32%
32%
‘14‘15‘16‘17
$2,566
$2,929
$2,898
$2,998
‘15‘16‘17‘18
32%
29%
28%
29%
‘14‘15‘16‘17SALES FROM  
HEALTHY PRODUCTS  
(revenue, in millions)  59%
2018
Flat from FY2017 data  
due to our ongoing efforts  
to improve our foods.
$6,096
$5,372
$5,691
$6,115
‘15‘16‘17‘18
57%
53%
55%
59%
‘14‘15‘16‘17
$3,238
$3,200
$3,297
$3,344
‘15‘16‘17‘18
34%
32%
32%
32%
‘14‘15‘16‘17
$2,566
$2,929
$2,898
$2,998
‘15‘16‘17‘18
32%
29%
28%
29%
‘14‘15‘16‘17SALES FROM PRODUCTS  
WITH INCREASED  
POSITIVE NUTRIENTS2  
(revenue, in millions)  31%
2018
Decreased by 1 percentage 
point driven by organic 
declines in Meals and 
Beverages and increases  
in Global Biscuits and Snacks 
compared to FY2017.
  24%
2018
Decreased by 5 percentage 
points due to accelerated 
compliance with the nutrition 
facts panel and accompanying 
changes to nutrient calculations 
in line with new FDA regulation. 
This represents a 1 percent 
organic decrease compared to  
FY2017 driven by losses in 
Meals and Beverages with gains  
in Global Biscuits and Snacks.
Delivered
>16  Billion
Servings of  
Vegetables to the Global 
Marketplace in FY2018
$6,096
$5,372
$5,691
$6,115
‘15‘16‘17‘18
57%
53%
55%
59%
‘14‘15‘16‘17
$3,238
$3,200
$3,297
$3,344
‘15‘16‘17‘18
34%
32%
32%
32%
‘14‘15‘16‘17
$2,566
$2,929
$2,898
$2,998
‘15‘16‘17‘18
32%
29%
28%
29%
‘14‘15‘16‘1710.2 billion servings of vegetables from  
our Meals and Beverages portfolio alone.
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
45
1   Beginning in FY2015, we began reporting on our global data to include Latin America, Canada and  
Asia-Pacific regions. For definitions of these three reporting categories, please see page 64 in the Appendix.
2  Beginning in FY2017, we set a sodium upper limit of 600 mg/serving for Presence of Positives and 
Reduction of Negatives across all of our categories, globally. That limit is less than US FDA’s Voluntary 
Draft Guidance on the mean sales-weighted sodium target for the soup category.Campbell is on a mission to craft new products that bring our Real Food Philosophy to life, one delicious bite or slurp  
at a time.SHAREDSHARED
What’s New in Real Food 
CAMPBELL ’S® 
ORGANIC 
SPAGHETTIOS®
SpaghettiOs launched 
two organic varieties 
made with certified organic ingredients, 
and no preservatives, synthetic colors or 
artificial flavors.CAMPBELL ’S®  
CONDENSED SOUPS 
These new soups launched  
in Canada are made with ingredients 
you can find at your local market, like 
cremini mushroom, red bell pepper 
and Parmesan cheese.CAMPBELL CANADA  
ORGANIC VEGETABLE 
BROTHS
This flavorful broth is 
made using only quality 
ingredients like vegetables 
grown without synthetic 
pesticides, herbicides and fertilizers, 
and is seasoned to perfection with no 
artificial colors or flavors.BOLTHOUSE FARMS™  
PLANT PROTEIN MILK 
Our new Plant Protein Milk 
is made with pea protein 
and filled with goodness, 
including 50 percent more 
calcium than dairy milk and 
10 grams of protein per 
serving versus just 1 gram in almond 
milk. Better yet, it’s vegan, non-GMO 
and doesn’t contain dairy, lactose, nuts, 
soy or gluten. It’s milk with a bigger 
flavor and a smaller impact on the land. CAMPBELL ’S®  
30% LESS SODIUM  
CHICKEN BROTHS
Campbell Canada 
launched two new 
broths with 30 percent 
less sodium than our 
ready-to-use chicken broth. It’s easy to 
create delicious, wholesome meals at 
home with the new Thai Chicken Broth 
and Roasted Garlic Chicken Broth.
PREGO® TRADITIONAL 
NO SUGAR ADDED  
ITALIAN SAUCE
This new sauce offers the rich flavor of 
sweet, vine-ripened tomatoes and the 
classic Italian seasoning our consumers 
want without the added sugar.
BOLTHOUSE FARMS®  
LOWER SUGAR LINE
Bolthouse Farms launched 
their Lower Sugar line,  
a line of smoothies and 
protein shakes made with 
lower sugar compared to other juice and 
shake products on the market. Whether 
you’re looking for a protein boost, or a 
serving of fruit, the Lower Sugar line helps 
consumers meet their dietary needs. WELL YES!® SOUPS 
Deliciously crafted with 
real ingredients you know 
and understand, but with 
unexpected flavors you’ll 
love. Now with expanded vegetarian and 
vegan options providing a full serving  
of vegetables with carefully selected, 
wholesome ingredients, including 
Butternut Squash Apple Bisque, Chickpea 
& Roasted Red Pepper Soup and Cajun 
Red Bean & Vegetable Soup.
PLUM ORGANICS®  
MIGHTY NUT BUTTER BAR®
We put a nutty twist on this mighty 
snack: a multigrain bar made with whole 
grains and a creamy nut butter filling! 
Our Mighty Nut Butter Bar even offers 
omega-3 ALA from chia—now that’s a 
mighty win for you and your tot. 
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
46
SHAREDSHARED
What We’re Taking Out of Our Food
We are working hard to deliver real food with recognizable ingredients. We make decisions about what ingredients to 
use in our recipes based on the best health and nutrition science, and we’re learning more every day. We also improve 
with feedback from our consumers, who know best what’s right for them and their families. 
WHAT WE’RE REMOVING WHAT WE’VE ACHIEVED* WHY IT MATTERS
 
BPA linings in soup cansTransitioned 100% of steel 
cans to non-BPA linings in 
U.S. and CanadaConsumers shared concerns regarding the presence of 
bisphenol A (BPA) in steel cans. We listened, and have 
transitioned to linings made from acrylic and polyester. 
Antibiotics in chicken 
meat98% of our chicken meat 
is antibiotic freeWe will no longer allow antibiotics to be added to the 
feed, water or any commercial vaccines used by our 
chicken suppliers. That’s a big step: We source about  
40 million pounds of chicken every year. 
 
Artificial colors and flavors 98% of products have  
no artificial colors  
and flavorsWe know that many people, and parents in particular, 
are keen to avoid artificial colors and flavors. We have 
been working to remove these ingredients and have 
made substantial progress.
*All achievements apply only to products sold in North America.
Well Yes!®, Campbell’s  
line of soups launched 
in 2017, met all three of 
these standards from the 
start. Learn more about 
this delicious new product 
inspired by the power of 
Real Food.
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
47
SHARED
SHARED
What happens when you put 
transparency, health and well-being first 
when crafting a new product? Look no 
further than Well Yes!, a line of soups 
launched in 2017, with new varieties 
added to the marketplace in 2018. 
The idea began with a group of 
Campbell employees who started 
thinking about their own cooking—and 
realized there was something missing 
from the soup aisle at supermarkets. 
These employees wanted a soup that 
contained real, nutritious ingredients 
they could feel good about serving their 
families. They also wanted something 
quick and easy to prepare: food that fit 
into their busy lives. 
They suspected others felt the same 
way. Our chefs, product developers and nutritionists began talking to consumers 
and discovered a similar need. People 
craved delicious meals with clean labels 
and purposeful ingredients, like kale, 
quinoa and lean protein. But they didn’t 
want to compromise on affordability. 
With these desires in mind, we looked 
back into our supply chain. We leveraged 
relationships with existing suppliers to 
source classic ingredients like tomatoes 
and celery, and built new relationships 
with small-scale suppliers for ingredients 
that are firsts for Campbell, such as black 
barley, fennel, farro and jicama. 
 
The cross-functional team that 
undertook this project co-created the 
product with a group of consumers, 
which was an entirely new approach 
for the company. The process  forced us to think differently—not 
just about ingredients, but also flavor 
combinations and even package 
design. The team also managed to 
iterate rapidly, entering the market  
six months ahead of schedule. 
The result is Well Yes!, a line of soups 
that meet consumer demands for 
cleaner ingredients and provide an 
incredibly strong nutritional profile. 
Each Well Yes! variety uses real food 
ingredients to deliver at least two 
positive nutrients like iron, potassium, 
calcium, vitamin A, protein or fiber, 
and most also deliver a serving of 
vegetables. Take a closer look: Well Yes!®: A Better Soup From the Can Up 
Well Yes! is one of the most successful 
Campbell soup launches of the past 10 years. 
Since the brand launched, we’ve introduced 
five new varieties and made our way into  
6 million households—allowing more people 
than ever to say yes to real food. WHAT’S THERE
Kale  •  Barley  •  Beans  •  
Lentils  •  Sweet Potatoes  •  
Whole Grains  •  Fiber  •  
Antibiotic-Free  
Chicken Meat 
WHAT’S NOT
Artificial Colors  •
Artificial Flavors  •
Artificial Ingredients  •
Modified Starches  •
MSG  •  BPA in Cans 
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
48
SHARED
Real Food Shouldn’t Go to Waste SHARED
Putting Transparency on the Menu 
Since the days of our founder, who 
insisted on using only local beefsteak 
tomatoes in our cans of soup, openness 
about our ingredients has been part of 
Campbell’s consumer promise. With 
the launch of our Purpose and Real 
Food Philosophy, we’ve rededicated 
ourselves to serving real food to our 
consumers and sharing more about 
what’s in our products. 
Our Real Food Philosophy combines the 
wisdom of our heritage with insights 
about what matters to consumers today. 
Transparency is the foundation of this 
philosophy. We believe that transparency 
builds trust, and we strive to be open 
about our ingredients, processes and 
decisions regarding our food. 
This isn’t just theoretical. Transparency 
touches every aspect of our business, 
from supplier engagement and talent 
development to our annual incentive 
program. Nowhere is this commitment 
clearer than in how we’re communicating 
with consumers. Across our products 
and brands, we’re exploring new ways 
to tell consumers more about what’s in 
their food. WhatsInMyFood.com
Consumers asked, “What’s in my food?” 
and we’re answering. This website 
dives deep into the choices behind the 
ingredients in Campbell’s brands, 
including where they come from and 
how they’re prepared. It also addresses 
less common ingredients and explains 
their purposes, such as to improve color 
or texture. Arnott’s, Campbell Canada, 
Pepperidge Farm and Plum Organics 
introduced similar transparency 
webpages in 2016 and 2017. 
Pinto (formerly The Sage Project)
While we’re proud to offer brand-level 
transparency on WhatsInMyFood.com, 
we wanted to go deeper and share 
what’s inside individual Campbell 
products. To determine what and how 
to share, we talked with consumers to 
better understand their expectations. 
We learned that about one in three 
consumers is actively seeking product 
information beyond what’s available  
on a label, including nutrition profiles, 
definitions of unfamiliar ingredients and 
ingredient origins. These insights led us to Pinto, a nutrition 
technology startup that is helping us 
present product-level data in a compelling, 
user-friendly way. We began with a pilot 
with our new Well Yes!® soups. When a 
user visits a product page on the Well 
Yes! website, they can view a product’s 
Pinto presents product-level data 
in a user-friendly way.
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
49
SHAREDSHARED
Putting Transparency on the Menu, cont.
nutritional content, ingredient descriptions, 
a list of potential allergens and other 
important information, like whether it’s 
sold in recyclable packaging. In FY2018, 
Campbell expanded this information to 
Pace® salsas and Campbell’s® sauces.
Pushing for Nationwide Progress
We believe that knowing what’s in  
your food should be a right for all 
consumers—not just those who 
purchase our products. That’s why we’re 
advocating for smart national policies 
regarding food labeling and staying on 
the leading edge of compliance with 
new requirements. The Food and Drug 
Administration’s (FDA) new Nutrition 
Facts panel is designed to be easier to 
interpret, with calories more visible and 
both per-serving and per-container 
nutrition information for certain package 
sizes. The new panels also display 
added sugars and require reporting of 
new nutrients of public health concern 
such as potassium and Vitamin D. 
Campbell became one of the first food 
companies to use these new standards, 
and although the FDA has delayed  
the date at which it will require full 
compliance, many of our brands have 
already updated to the new nutrition facts 
panel. The remaining products, including 
those from our recent acquisitions, will  
be updated by January 1, 2020. 
Campbell also continues to participate 
in the Facts Up Front program, printing 
calories per serving and nutrients to 
limit on the front of product packages. 
As new issues rise to the forefront of 
consumers’ minds, Campbell will find 
new ways to deliver our Purpose and 
give people the information they 
deserve about the food they eat. The Australian government has 
introduced new Country of Origin food 
labeling. Arnott’s has started applying 
these easy-to-understand labels across 
Campbell’s® soups, simple meals, stocks 
and V8® juices. The new labels tell 
consumers at a glance where their food 
is grown, produced, made or packed 
and also shows what percentage of the 
ingredients come from Australia.
Our Arnott’s business also continues to 
roll out Health Star Ratings across the 
entire portfolio. This front-of-pack labeling 
system provides a quick, standard way to 
compare similar packaged foods, helping 
consumers to easily make informed 
decisions about the foods they buy.
UnCanned ® by Campbell’s
When it comes to food, consumers have 
questions. In Campbell’s ongoing journey 
toward radical transparency, we’re 
serving up answers.
 
UnCanned by Campbell’s, which launched 
in 2018, houses fact-based answers to 
commonly searched questions about 
food, with topics ranging from GMOs to 
sodium to food waste. It also answers 
more light-hearted questions, like “Why 
did Andy Warhol paint soup?” UnCanned  
by Campbell’s is an important companion 
to our WhatsInMyFood.com website, 
which provides detailed information 
about specific Campbell products.
Accompanying the website is a podcast  
series produced in partnership with Slate 
Studios. Episodes dive deep into stories 
about the food industry today, featuring 
guests such as the Yeung family who has 
been growing tomatoes for Campbell 
for nearly 20 years and whose farm is 
now managed by the Yeung sisters. Campbell Leads on 
GMO Transparency 
In 2016, Campbell became the 
first major food company to 
support a mandatory national 
labeling standard for products 
that contain genetically modified 
organisms (GMOs). We’ve 
put that stance into action by 
labeling all U.S. products that 
contain ingredients derived 
from GMO crops. The decisions 
we have made with regard to 
GMOs have not been because 
we dispute the science behind 
GMOs or their safety. The 
overwhelming weight of 
scientific evidence indicates 
that GMOs are safe and that 
foods derived from crops using 
genetically modified seeds 
are not nutritionally different 
from other foods. Instead, the 
decision was guided by our 
Purpose and our commitment to 
be open and honest about our 
food. GMO labeling is a practice 
that the majority of Americans 
support, and we believe it is the 
right thing to do for consumers 
and for our business. 
OLD NEW
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
50
SHAREDSHARED
In 2018, Campbell was the lead 
sponsor for the Village Capital Food 
and Agriculture: US 2018 Cohort along 
with QBE Insurance Group and UBS 
investment banking. The three-month 
investment-readiness program 
featured 12 early-stage food and 
agriculture startups from across the 
United States. The program was 
designed to train and invest in food 
and agriculture startups that are 
expanding access to sustainable, 
healthy and accessible agricultural 
goods to drive a better food and 
agriculture system.The startups that participated are 
working to reduce food and packaging 
waste, improve pathogen detection, 
reuse wastewater and capitalize on new 
technologies to improve agricultural 
practices, such as Internet of Things (IoT), 
Big Data and Robotics. Two of the  
12 startups, Vega Coffee and Wexus 
Technologies, were selected by their peers  
to receive investments of $100,000 each 
at the final cohort event. 
This was Village Capital’s fifth investment-
readiness program focused on food and 
agriculture, but the first sponsorship by 
Campbell. In addition to financial support, Campbell R&D and Sustainability 
leaders participated alongside the 
cohort in workshops and served as 
mentors to the startups. In another first 
for a Village Capital sponsor, Campbell 
provided remote mentoring sessions 
between Campbell experts and the  
12 participating companies.
This partnership allowed Campbell to 
study the accelerator process up close, 
while gaining insights into emerging 
food concepts and technology which 
could make supply chains more 
sustainable and cost effective.Investing in the Future of Food
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
51
SHAREDCan packaged foods fit into a healthy diet? 
A recent study published in The American 
Journal of Clinical Nutrition tried to answer 
this question when they tested the health 
effects of a Dietary Guidelines Diet in a 
randomized control trial.
The Dietary Guidelines for Americans 
(DGA) are the foundation for nutrition 
policies and programs in the U.S. and 
are based on a large body of research. 
Despite the research that goes into 
making the guideline’s recommendations, 
the DGA diet itself has never been tested 
in a clinical intervention until recently.This study compared two groups of 
women where one group ate a typical 
American diet high in refined grains, solid 
fats and added sugars, and the second 
ate a diet consistent with the DGA 
recommendations emphasizing fruits, 
vegetables, low-fat dairy and whole 
grains. The DGA diet included a variety of 
Campbell products including Low Sodium 
V8® 100% Vegetable juice, Healthy 
Request® soups, Swanson® unsalted 
chicken stock and Pace® salsas.
Women who followed the DGA diet had 
lower systolic blood pressure and a trend for lower cholesterol after eight 
weeks. Managing cholesterol and blood 
pressure levels can help support a 
healthy heart. Some parameters, like 
glucose and triglyceride levels did not 
change, but overall, women in the DGA 
group had a more nutrient-dense diet.
Campbell was not involved in the final 
design, implementation, analysis or 
interpretation of the data from the study. 
However, the results show that packaged 
foods can fit and even help improve 
overall nutrient quality in a healthy diet.Making Healthy Eating More Convenient
15%  
Fruits &  
Vegetables
6%  
Potassium  
(260 mg) 75%  
Vitamin C  
(70 mg)6%  
Sodium  
(135 mg)3%  
Total Calories
(70 calories)How Campbell  
Supports a Healthy Diet
Participants on the DGA  
diet received an average of  
1.7 servings of Campbell 
products per day, contributing 
to their daily nutrient and  
food group needs.
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
52
Building a  
Network of  
Real Solutions
PAGE 57
Lasting Solutions  
for Our Hometowns 
PAGE 56
Our Community 
Affairs Strategy 
PAGE 55
Giving That  
Matters  
Week 2018 
PAGE 58
Arnott’s  
Employees  
Make a  
Difference  
in Southeast  
Asia
PAGE 60
Feeding People,  
Ending Food Waste: 
That’s Just 
Peachy ®
PAGE 59
Sowing 
Change With 
FoodCorps
PAGE 57
Healthy Eating  
From the  
Very Start
PAGE 59 SHARED  
Communities
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
53
How We Manage Metrics That Matter How We Manage Metrics That Matter
Campbell has long been committed to serving and supporting 
our hometown communities. We’ve made important strides 
through our Campbell’s Healthy Communities program, the 
Campbell Soup Foundation, cash and in-kind support, and 
employee volunteerism. With the launch of our new company 
Purpose and Values, we have taken a fresh look at our 
community strategy to ensure it is aligned with Campbell’s 
priorities and our communities’ needs today.
Our new Community Affairs platform, “Giving that Matters,” aims 
to strengthen and empower healthy communities in Campbell’s 
hometowns. Campbell’s commitment to our Purpose and Real 
Food Philosophy includes helping to ensure that real food 
remains accessible to all. As a food company, we are uniquely 
positioned to leverage our capabilities and expertise to increase 
food access across the world. Because of this, food access is 
central within our new Community Affairs platform, and many of 
our philanthropic investments and volunteerism efforts focus on 
this issue.
 
With our new focus comes a new way to think about our role in 
our communities. No longer are we exclusively a grant maker 
that executes individual programs and events; we are becoming 
a change maker that invests in long-term, sustainable impact. 
Our change philosophy is simple—we work to create local 
impact through bold solutions and systematic interventions in 
partnership with community members.
In-kind: $49.5M
Foundation: $2.1M
Corporate Contributions: $1.8M
Employee Giving: $1M
Cause Marketing: $0.083M
Total: $54,423,426
14,100
‘15
12,000
‘16
12,200
‘17
10,350
‘18
$70.4
‘14
$59.2
‘15
$65.1
‘16
$61.9
‘17
$54.4
‘18
EMPLOYEE  
VOLUNTEER HOURSCHARITABLE GIVING,  
INCLUDING IN-KIND  
(in millions)
In-kind: $49.5M
Foundation: $2.1M
Corporate Contributions: $1.8M
Employee Giving: $1M
Cause Marketing: $0.083M
Total: $54,423,426
14,100
‘15
12,000
‘16
12,200
‘17
10,350
‘18
$70.4
‘14
$59.2
‘15
$65.1
‘16
$61.9
‘17
$54.4
‘18
GLOBAL GIVING
In-kind: $49.5M
Foundation: $2.1M
Corporate Contributions: $1.8M
Employee Giving: $1M
Cause Marketing: $0.083M
Total: $54,423,426
14,100
‘15
12,000
‘16
12,200
‘17
10,350
‘18
$70.4
‘14
$59.2
‘15
$65.1
‘16
$61.9
‘17
$54.4
‘18
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
54
SHARED
INCREASE HEALTHY FOOD ACCESS ENCOURAGE HEALTHY LIVINGNURTURE CAMPBELL 
NEIGHBORHOODS
Increase availability of and 
accessibility to real, fresh foodsExpand nutrition education and 
active lifestyle programsTransform the physical spaces where 
people live, learn and play 
How We’re Making Change
• Establishing fresh food access 
points such as corner stores, 
farmer’s markets and grocery stores
• Creating voucher programs for 
healthy food
• Developing innovative solutions 
for food waste 
• Launching healthy school food 
programs
• Supporting local agriculture• Improving nutrition education 
and awareness in schools and 
alternative settings, like doctor’s 
offices
• Offering cooking classes
• Creating city-wide initiatives for 
structured play• Providing safe places to play
• Restoring parks and trails
• Promoting active transportation 
infrastructure, such as bike lanes
• Repurposing of vacant lots for safe 
resident use
• Addressing barriers to healthy, 
safe communities SHARED
Our Community Affairs Strategy 
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
55
SHARED
SHARED
Our signature community affairs program, 
Campbell’s Healthy Communities, is  
a 10-year, $10 million commitment to 
measurably improve the health of young 
people in our hometown communities. 
Launched in 2010, Campbell’s Healthy 
Communities uses a differentiated 
collective impact approach which 
includes a common agenda among 
partners, shared measurement systems, continuous communications, mutually 
reinforcing activities and a backbone 
leadership organization. The goal is for 
this work to live sustainably in the 
Camden community through a network 
of partner organizations, rather than 
belonging to any one individually. 
In FY2018, partners leveraged additional 
external funding resources of $1.4 million from being a part of this collective. 
While the initial focus of this program 
was on our community in Camden, New 
Jersey, the initiative has expanded to 
four additional Campbell communities.
See our Campbell’s Healthy 
Communities FY2018 Camden Annual 
Report here .Lasting Solutions for Our Hometowns 
How We’re Making Change in Camden 
Heart Bucks 
Coupons for heart-healthy food for 
participants in Heart Smarts lessons
$6,268
Spent on heart-healthy  
food
1.5 million
Minutes of  
physical activity99%
Heart Bucks 
redeemed
40,000
Go Noodle  
sessions 
administeredGo Noodle 
In-classroom physical activity burstsHeart Smarts
In-store nutrition education lessons
87%
Participants plan to 
frequently buy healthy 
foods identified during 
lessons1,640
Participants
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
56
SHARED
SHARED
Campbell’s Healthy Communities 
established the Healthy Corner Store 
Network, which is designed to increase 
access to affordable, healthy food in 
low-income neighborhoods by providing 
technical assistance, supplies and 
services to store owners. In Camden,  
a city of 77,000 residents with no 
full-service grocery store, corner stores 
are a key to healthy food access in the 
city. The network currently has 48 stores 
enrolled, which accounts for 40 percent 
of the total corner stores in Camden.
The program has expanded to include 
wraparound services such as onsite 
health screenings, Heart Smarts 
nutrition education lessons, cooking 
classes and the distribution of Heart 
Bucks, which are coupons that are 
redeemed at the stores for healthy food. 
In addition, Food Bucks Rx has been 
introduced, a program in which doctors provide prescriptions for fresh fruits  
and vegetables to patients who screen 
positive for food insecurity.
The impact of these programs has  
been widespread. Of the participants 
surveyed, 79 percent felt they could buy 
healthier food items at their local store 
and 86 percent reported having good 
access to fresh fruits and vegetables  
in their neighborhood.
Fayer’s Market, one of the early 
participants in the Healthy Corner  
Store Network, has seen a 165 percent 
increase in sales of fresh fruits and 
vegetables since introducing the Food 
Bucks Rx program, with a total of over 
$50,000 in redemptions.Building a Network of Real Solutions
FoodCorps is a national nonprofit which 
places AmeriCorps volunteers in high-
need schools to help connect kids to 
healthy food in school so they can  
lead healtheir lives and reach their  
full potential. A partner in several 
Campbell’s Healthy Communities sites, 
FoodCorps extended its reach in 
FY2018 to one of our newest sites, 
Ferndale, Michigan.
The FoodCorps service member 
worked on a variety of programs during 
the school year, including collaborating 
with Gleaners Food Bank to host 
Cooking Matters cooking classes for kids and families, hosting sessions of 
Exploring Foods Club, and teaching 
nutrition education and gardening 
lessons during an afterschool garden 
club, Sprout Scouts. Overall, the service 
member led more than 400 food access 
activities and nutrition education 
sessions benefiting 950 students. The 
biggest win for the year, however, was 
the partnership with Partners for Healthy 
Schools to form a district-wide wellness 
committee focused on improving the 
school district’s wellness policy, the first 
collaborative of its kind in the Ferndale, 
Michigan, area.Sowing Change With FoodCorpsCorner stores are 
a key to healthy 
food access in 
Camden and other 
communities
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
57
During Giving that Matters Week, our annual week of service, Campbell employees from across the company come 
together to help our local communities thrive. See what our people accomplished during our biggest year yet. Giving that Matters Week 2018 
6,000 
Campbell Employees
$30,000
Awarded to Nonprofits 
Through the Campbell 
Soup Foundation7,500  
Volunteer Hours
40+ 
Organizations Served 28 
Locations 
10,000 
Backpacks Full 
of Food Donated 
Through Feeding 
America’s Backpack 
ProgramSHAREDSHARED
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
58
 Six years ago, a team of Campbell 
employees put their heads together 
with the Food Bank of South Jersey to 
address a major food waste dilemma: 
supermarkets often won’t accept 
undersized or misshapen produce, 
despite it being perfectly safe and 
nutritious to eat. This leads to millions 
of pounds of fresh, nourishing fruits and 
vegetables being wasted every year, 
even while many communities, like 
our New Jersey hometown, face food 
insecurity. We thought there must be a 
way to address both of these challenges 
at once—and Just Peachy was born. Since 2012, Just Peachy salsa has 
rescued some of the 800,000 pounds 
of peaches thrown away each year 
by just one farmer’s cooperative in 
southern New Jersey. We make the 
salsa in our pilot plant in Camden, 
New Jersey, and employees volunteer 
to package each new batch. Just 
Peachy salsa is sold at more than 
100 New Jersey retailers, including 
farmer’s markets, restaurants and select 
ShopRite stores, and all profits support 
hunger relief programs at the Food 
Bank of South Jersey. It’s a peachy deal 
for the planet and everyone involved: 
growers, Campbell employees, the 
Food Bank and salsa lovers alike. Feeding People, Ending Food Waste:  
That’s Just Peachy®
Plum Organics is rooted in its mission to provide the 
very best food from the very first bite and, as a Public 
Benefit Corporation (PBC), is committed to advancing 
solutions for childhood hunger and malnutrition in the 
U.S. Since the 2013 inception of The Full Effect®, their 
give-back program, Plum Organics has donated over 
20,000,0001 meals and snacks to little ones in need. 
In FY2018, Plum Organics continued their ongoing 
commitment to the Homeless Prenatal Program (HPP) in 
San Francisco, California. HPP works to break the cycle 
of childhood poverty by helping families become more 
healthy and economically stable. A $50,000 grant from 
Plum Organics helped HPP maintain its breastfeeding 
resources to support HPP community mothers and 
babies so they can start life off right. Plum Organics  
will continue its support of HPP in FY2019.  Healthy Eating From  
the Very Start 
Impact Since 2012: 
240,000
Jars of salsa produced
$350,000
Revenue generated for the  
Food Bank of South Jersey  700,000 
Meals funded by program 
Over $500,000
in dumping fees saved  
by area farmers
In FY2018  
Plum Organics  
Funded:
3 Private  
nursing areas
34 Breast  
pumps
5 Bed top  
co-sleepers 
5 Lactation  
educators25 Staff trained  
on breastfeeding
40 Healthy  
feeding classes SHAREDSHARED
1 Please note that 20M is based on FY2018 numbers, and more has been donated since then.
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
59
Arnott’s Indonesia
• Partnering with YCAB, a local youth 
development organization, Arnott’s 
continues to offer computer lessons 
to underprivileged children. An Arnott’s-  
branded van serves as a classroom 
on wheels, carrying enough laptops 
for 10 students and a teacher. The 
program has been in operation for 
one year, educating more than  
150 students across three terms.
• Arnott’s also supports the community 
in the neighborhood surrounding its 
plant by participating in Posyandu,  
an Indonesian public health program 
that provides community-based 
preventive care in villages. Each month, 
families bring infants and toddlers  
to receive health services such as 
immunizations and nutritional checks. To make visits a little sweeter for 
children and their parents, Arnott’s 
provides biscuits such as Nyam-Nyam 
and Good Time. 
Campbell Malaysia
• After floods hit Penang, Malaysia, in 
2017, the local Arnott’s team banded 
together to provide relief. We partnered 
with The Lost Food Project, a Malaysian 
food bank that collects healthy surplus 
food that would otherwise go to landfills 
and redistributes it to those in need. 
Through donations of Campbell 
products, we helped The Lost Food 
Project deliver more than 50,000 meals.
• In 2018, Campbell helped students at 
the Lighthouse Children’s Welfare 
Home in Bangsar start the school year 
off right. Employees could “sponsor” 
a child by funding students’ school 
fees and supplies. Through this effort, 
Campbell helped 80 underprivileged 
children return to school.Arnott’s Employees Make a  
Difference in Southeast Asia
Supporting Healthy 
Communities 
in Campbell’s 
Hometowns
Founded in 1953, the Campbell 
Soup Foundation provides finan-
cial support to local organizations 
that inspire positive change in 
communities where Campbell 
employees live and work. The 
Foundation’s grantmaking 
focuses on strategic giving to 
strengthen and empower healthy 
communities in Campbell’s home-
towns. The Foundation is entirely 
employee-run, governed by a 
Board of Trustees comprised of 
senior executives and advised 
by an employee-led Executive 
Committee. In FY2018, the 
Foundation provided $1.5 million 
in grants, including a youth urban 
farming program and mobile 
teaching kitchen in Camden, 
New Jersey, as well as a food 
waste and recovery program in 
Bloomfield, Connecticut.
A Record Year for The Arnott’s Foundation
In FY2018, The Arnott’s Foundation had another record year of giving, granting 
more than US $522,000 to deserving nonprofits across Australia. Of the total 
amount donated, $432,000 was donated to Camp Quality, $72,000 was donated 
to Fairy Sparkle and $18,000 was donated to Aussie Helpers. On top of this, over 
$1.6 million of product was donated to Foodbank and $67,000 was donated to 
Driver Reviver. 
What makes The Arnott’s Foundation unique is that the majority of funds are 
raised by employees and the Arnott’s community. Through direct giving and 
fundraising events, the Foundation was able to further its mission to create 
positive environments that allow families to build, maintain and enjoy a better 
quality of life.
SHAREDSHARED
At Arnott’s offices and manufacturing facilities in Indonesia and Malaysia, our 
employees are taking time outside of work to improve their communities and 
help children in need. Here are just a few ways we’re bringing our Purpose to life. 
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
60
FY2018 PERFORMANCE SCORECARD
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
61
Campbell’s FY2018  
Performance Scorecard
BUSINESS OVERVIEW (USD in millions) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018
Net Sales $8,082 $7,961 $7,890 $8,685
EBIT $1,054 $960 $1,400 $469
Taxes on Earnings $283 $286 $406 $11
Dividends Paid $394 $390 $420 $426
Capital Expenditures $380 $341 $338 $407
R&D $117 $124 $111  $110 
GROWN FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018
GHG Emissions (kg CO 2e/tonne of tomato) 0.006 0.0057 0.0057 0.006
Water Use (gallons/pound of tomato) 8.48 7.53 7.53 8.16
Nitrogen Use (pounds Nitrogen/tonne of tomato) 4.04 4.12 4.12 4.33
SOURCED FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018
Cage-Free Eggs N/A N/A 12% 16%
“No Antibiotics Ever” Chicken N/A N/A 97% 98%
Crate-Free Pork134% 34% 21% 57%
Responsibly Sourced Palm Oil (RSPO) N/A 100% 100%  100% 
PRODUCED FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018
Energy Use
Total Electricity Use (mmbtu) 2,401,815 2,337,129 2,488,054 2,188,267
Total Fuel Use (mmbtu) 7,691,784 7,249,795 7,932,234 7,689,340
Total Energy Use (mmbtu) 10,093,599 9,586,924 10,420,288 9,877,607
U.S. 8,113,734 7,569,380 8,039,806 8,197,019
Outside of U.S. 1,979,865 2,017,544 2,380,482 1,680,588
Energy Intensity (mmbtu/tonne of food produced) 2.54 2.58 2.77 2.58
Renewable Energy Generated (kWh) for the Grid220,903,897 22,116,941 27,670,475 26,933,868
Percent of Total Electricity Use 3% 3% 4% 4%
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
GHG Emissions (tonnes CO 2e) 751,924 724,996 751,340 734,937
GHG Intensity (tonnes CO 2e/tonne of food produced) 0.19 0.19 0.20  0.19 
Direct (Scope 1) Emissions (tonnes CO 2e) 427,731 403,057 416,838 421,970
U.S. 346,894 316,265 332,822 352,235
Outside of U.S. 80,837 86,792 84,016 69,735
Indirect (Scope 2) Emissions (tonnes CO 2e) 324,203 321,939 334,502 312,967
U.S. 242,872 245,801 258,397 242,879
Outside of U.S. 81,331 76,138 76,105 70,088
Indirect (Scope 3) Emissions (tonnes CO 2e)37,366 8,443 9,742 7,262
Carbon Offsets Purchased (tonnes CO 2e)423 51 77 6
Water Use
Water Use (m3) 32,033,574 31,858,298 31,916,514 31,847,831
Water Intensity (m3/tonne of food produced) 8.07 8.56 8.53 8.33FY2018 PERFORMANCE SCORECARD
Campbell’s FY2018 Performance Scorecard, cont.
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
62
PRODUCED FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018
Waste Generation
Total Waste Generated (tonnes) 479,408 450,814 445,237 467,334
Total Waste to Landfill (tonnes) 48,900 44,161 40,059 39,717
Total Waste to Incineration/Controlled Combustion (tonnes) 1,587 2,231 2,099 1,943
Total Recycled (tonnes) 47,255 43,343 36,535 27,172
Total Other Diverted Waste (tonnes) 381,666 361,079 366,544 398,501
Total Waste Diverted from Landfill (tonnes) 430,508 406,653 405,178 427,616
Landfill Diversion Rate 90% 90% 91% 92%
Total Waste Intensity (tonnes/tonne of food produced) 0.12 0.12 0.12 0.12 
Hazardous Waste Generated (tonnes) 38 50 55 37
SHARED FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018
Total Reportable Incident Rate (TRIR)/200,000 hours 1.99 1.96 1.37 1.18
Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR)/200,000 hours 0.29 0.23 0.20 0.21
Employee Fatalities 0 0 0 1
Environmental Notice of Violations (NOVs) 1 1 5 4
Environmental Fines (USD) $500 $1,500 $7,100 $4,450 
Women in Global Workforce 44% 43% 43% 42%
Women in Management 38% 41% 43% 43%
Women on the Board of Directors 31% 31% 33% 33%
Charitable Giving, including In-Kind (USD in millions) $59.2 $65.1 $61.9 $54.4
Employee Volunteer Hours 14,100 12,000 12,200 10,350
Tuition Assistance Paid $0.81 $0.79 $0.80 $0.89
U.S. Health Care Expense5$100 $115 $123 $121
Pension Income/Expense $96 $279 $(230)  $(150)
Post-Retirement Medical & Life Expense $29 $38 $(28)  $(35)
401(k) Retirement Plan Contributions $31 $33 $34 $45
Products with Reduced Negative Nutrients (revenue in millions)6$5,372 $5,691 $6,115 $6,096
Products with Reduced Negative Nutrients (revenue/total revenue) 53% 55% 59% 59%
Products with Increased Positive Nutrients (revenue in millions)6$3,200 $3,297 $$3,344 $3,238
Products with Increased Positive Nutrients (revenue/total revenue) 32% 32% 32% 31%
Healthy Products (revenue in millions) $2,929 $2,898 $2,998 $2,566
Healthy Products (revenue/total revenue) 29% 28% 29% 24%
1   We are restating our historic data because of improved data completeness and quality.
2  Campbell generates renewable energy through onsite solar and fuel cell installations, but sells all of it to others.
3  Scope 3 emissions include employee business travel by car, plane and train. Campbell is working to capture more emissions categories in FY2019.
4  Plum purchases carbon offsets in the amount of the GHG emissions from the energy used in its headquarters building in Emeryville, California. Plum began purchasing 
solar power in FY2018 for its Emeryville facility. As a result, emissions for the year are much lower, requiring that only 6 metric tonnes CO2e be offset in FY2018.
5  U.S. Health Care Expense was restated for FY2017 to include expenses for the Campbell Fresh division. This business is included for FY2018 as well.
6  Starting in FY2017, we set a sodium upper limit of 600 mg/serving for Presence of Positives and Reduction of Negatives across all of our categories, globally. That limit is  
less than US FDA’s Voluntary Draft Guidance on the mean sales-weighted sodium target for the soup category.APPENDIXPublic-Private Partnerships  
Many of Campbell’s business leaders serve 
as trustees or members of advisory boards 
of organizations working to further 
corporate responsibility, including the 
following: 
• Advisory Committee on Supply Chain 
Competitiveness 
• American College of Nutrition 
• American Council for Fitness and Nutrition 
• American Physiological Society 
• American Society for Nutrition 
• Boston College Center for Corporate 
Citizenship 
• Center for Food Safety at The University 
of Georgia 
• Center for Research on Ingredient Safety 
at Michigan State University 
• Congressional Management Foundation 
• Convergence Center for Policy Resolution 
• Food Allergy & Anaphylaxis Network 
• Food Allergy Research and Resource 
Program (FARRP) at University of 
Nebraska 
• Food Bank of South Jersey 
• Foundation for Food and Agriculture 
Research
• Foundation for Strategic Sourcing 
• Habitat for Humanity 
• International Life Science Institute
• Net Impact 
• New Jersey Agricultural Society 
• New Jersey Food Council 
• Produce for Better Health Foundation 
• Stewardship Index for Specialty Crops 
• Sustainable Brands 
• The Consumer Goods Forum 
• The Sustainability Consortium 
• United Way local chapters 
• University of Illinois Advisory Board, 
Division of Nutritional Sciences and 
Department of Food Science and Human 
Nutrition
• USDA-USTR Agricultural Technical 
Advisory Committee for Trade in 
Processed Foods
• World Economic ForumHealth and Nutrition Stakeholder 
Engagement & Research
Many of today’s complex nutrition issues 
require a collaborative and multidisciplinary 
approach to solutions that span the public 
and private sectors. As an industry leader, 
Campbell established a legacy in perform-
ing and supporting health and nutrition 
research, education and consumer 
programs to improve consumer diets 
through innovative partnerships with 
stakeholders that in 2018 included:
• Participation in the Academy of Nutrition 
and Dietetics Nutrition Impact Summit. 
The invitation-only event was convened 
by the Academy and its Foundation to 
explore collaborative opportunities to 
accelerate progress toward good health 
and well-being for all people.
• Participation in the American Heart 
Association Healthier Food Leadership 
Summit to discuss creating a healthier 
future through collaboration, innovation 
and development of guiding principles 
for change.
• Membership, sponsorship and exhibition 
at the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics’ 
annual Food and Nutrition Conference & 
Expo (FNCE), where our corporate nutrition-
ists get feedback on our products from 
health professionals. 
• Supporting the Produce for Better Health 
Foundation, as a donor, on the Board of 
Trustees, through participation in the 
marketing and communications and 
research subcommittees and through 
sponsorship of their annual meeting. 
These efforts support Campbell’s 
Nutrition strategy (specific to fruits and 
vegetables) and Real Food Philosophy 
and help educate key stakeholders on 
Campbell’s nutrition initiatives.
• Involvement in planning symposia for  
the American Society for Nutrition and 
engaging the organization to stay up-to- 
date on research from top nutrition 
scientists in industry and academia.• Working collaboratively across USDA  
and FDA agencies on implementation  
of the new Nutrition Facts panels and 
GMO labeling.
• Collaborating with retailer health and 
wellness programs through the develop-
ment of nutrition education resources, 
including recipes that aligned with the 
Dietary Guidelines for Americans, coupon 
and recipe booklets, nutrition articles 
and more, to educate consumers about 
healthy eating.
• Providing continuing education credits  
to over 200 dietitians on culinary trends 
and nutrition communications.
• Collaborating with global industry on  
the Consumer Goods Forum to develop 
programs and share best practices in 
health and wellness promotion.
• Conducting an annual survey of dietitians 
to collect feedback on our products, 
clients’ consumption and referral habits, 
nutritional characteristics of products 
and resources they seek for consumers.
• Continued engagement with the Interfaith 
Center on Corporate Responsibility on 
public health issues, including obesity, 
undernutrition and access to nutrition.
• Participation in the Access to Nutrition 
Index assessment, which ranks the 
world’s largest food companies on their 
efforts in tackling nutrition challenges. 
Campbell uses the report to help inform 
nutrition strategy and best practices in 
policy development, transparency and 
communication on nutrition issues. 
• Partnership and engagement with 
numerous academic institutions including 
the Pennsylvania State University, Tufts 
University, Purdue University, University 
of California at Davis, West Chester 
University and others, on academic 
curriculum, internships and research. 
• Participation in the Forum for the  
Future’s Protein Challenge 2040  
U.S. Advisory Group.Stakeholder Engagement
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
63
APPENDIX• Sustaining Arnott’s partnership with the 
Dietitians Association of Australia (DAA), 
the governing body of dietetic and 
nutrition professionals in Australia, 
through which Arnott’s supports 
professional development.
• Developed a partnership with Dietitian 
Connection, an online network of 
dietitians in Australia. Through this 
partnership, Arnott’s engages with 
nutrition professionals and encourages 
dialogue on the latest nutrition science 
and trends.Scientific Advisors
Our panel of Scientific Advisors is made up 
of respected food and nutrition scientists 
from leading universities and private 
organizations. In December 2016, they 
reviewed our nutrition strategy and health 
and wellness reporting as benchmarked 
against key competitors. They commended 
our efforts to provide fact-based information 
with websites like www.whatsinmyfood.com  
and our dedication to transparency. The 
panel believes our criteria and reporting metrics are strong measurements of our 
commitment to health, but encouraged 
more transparency about the criteria. The 
panel recommended we create policies 
on our stance around food science and 
controversies. In FY2018, the panel worked 
with us to develop position statements on 
sensitive issues available for consumers 
and investors. This will be our first step to 
meet the panel’s recommendations to be 
even more transparent about our stance on 
important nutrition and health issues.
In order to help Campbell identify and 
prioritize our most relevant issues related 
to corporate responsibility, we conducted 
an in-depth materiality assessment in 
FY2016. This process allowed us to 
better understand how the priorities 
and concerns of external stakeholders 
align with our business priorities and 
corporate responsibility objectives. The 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards 
mandate that organizations do a materiality 
assessment as part of their reporting 
process to inform what are the most 
critical—or “material”—issues to report. 
Campbell defines material corporate 
responsibility issues as those that 
influence the judgment and decisions of 
our external and internal stakeholders 
and have an impact on our stakeholders 
and business today and in the future. 
In order to identify the key issues of 
importance, we seek the input of a variety 
of stakeholder groups and measure the 
risks and opportunities for all relevant environmental, social and governance 
topics. Our goal in this process is to help 
inform our overall corporate responsibility 
strategies, set priorities and ensure that 
our annual Corporate Responsibility Report 
communicates how we are managing 
those material issues.
Our assessment adhered to the 
following steps:
Step 1: Identification of Issues
We reviewed publicly available corporate 
responsibility communications of our peer 
set, including corporate responsibility 
reports, press releases and corporate 
websites, to analyze what issues and 
initiatives currently are of priority across 
our industry. We then conducted a 
thorough media audit of trade, corporate 
responsibility and mainstream media 
outlets to understand what issues are 
trending and of the highest concern in 
the news. We also had conversations 
with various NGOs, investors and corporate responsibility organizations to 
confirm our findings. 
Step 2: Stakeholder Survey 
We organized a widespread survey of 
global employees, customers (retailers), 
suppliers, NGOs, community partners, 
government or regulatory agencies, 
investors, trade organizations and 
consumers. The survey was not only sent 
directly to targeted external stakeholders, 
but was also posted publicly on Twitter 
and LinkedIn to gather input from as 
varied an audience as possible. In total, 
we received responses from more than 
1,250 survey participants.
Step 3: Stakeholder Interviews
To further vet the issues and rankings 
as identified by the survey results, we 
conducted detailed stakeholder interviews. 
Sustainable Brands interviewed five 
internal stakeholders, while Business for 
Social Responsibility interviewed five 
external stakeholders. In addition, we Healthy: Products that meet the FDA 
criteria for healthy, a Health Star Rating 
of 3.5 or higher, comply with Health 
Canada, or Mexico Dietary Guidelines.
Presence of Positives: Products that 
have increased positive nutrients or 
food groups such as potassium, fiber, and vegetable servings. These products 
must also meet upper limits for negative 
nutrients such as sodium, sugar and 
saturated fat.
Absence of Negatives: Products that 
are reduced in negative nutrients like 
sodium, saturated fat and sugar. These products must also meet upper limits for all 
negative nutrients in order to be classified 
under this category.
Corporate Responsibility MaterialityNutrition Data DefinitionsStakeholder Engagement, cont.
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
64
APPENDIXconducted post-survey interviews 
internally with more than 60 employees 
globally and 12 external stakeholders. 
Our stakeholders were asked to rate 
the importance of each of the following 
issues identified in our initial materiality 
research, including: 
Responsible Business Practices
• Transparency: Communicating openly 
with stakeholders on material issues 
and being clear with customers and 
consumers about what is in our food 
and where it comes from.
• Responsible Sourcing: Addressing 
issues in the supply chain, including 
human rights, workplace safety, 
being capable of fully tracing product 
inputs to their supply source and full 
traceability of product inputs in our 
supply chain.
• Sustainable Business Models: Doing 
business in a way that increases the size 
of the business while simultaneously 
reducing our environmental footprint 
and increasing positive social impact.
• Business Ethics: Upholding ethical 
principles in the business and 
workplace, including consumer privacy, 
fraud, bribery, corruption and corporate 
governance.
• Public Policy and Engagement: 
Actively engaging in public policy on 
issues affecting our industry.
Society
• Health, Nutrition and Wellness: 
Improving the health profile of our 
products and engaging in public 
discussions on healthy and nutritious 
lifestyles.
• Animal Welfare: Ensuring the ethical 
treatment of animals in our value chain.
• Food Access: Ensuring wholesome, 
nutritional food is available to as many 
people as possible in an affordable 
manner. • Community Involvement: Improving 
the communities in which we live and 
work through philanthropic efforts, 
including donations, volunteerism and 
other community programming.
• Human Rights in the Supply Chain: 
Combatting child labor and forced labor 
in the supply chain and evaluating our 
suppliers in the area of human rights.
Product Responsibility
• Food Safety and Quality: Setting and 
maintaining high standards for food 
safety and quality, including programs, 
policies and procedures that ensure 
safety of materials, manufacturing 
environment and processes, and 
finished products.
• Responsible Marketing: Adhering 
to internal and industry guidelines 
regarding consumer communications.
• Responsible Labeling: Providing 
consumers with information through 
labeling or other communications.
Labor Practices
• Talent Management: Creating a 
workplace that attracts and retains 
employees and includes professional 
development, succession planning, 
training and education.
• Diversity and Inclusion: Enabling a 
business environment that values 
different perspectives and includes 
these differences in business 
processes.
• Occupational Health and Safety: 
Ensuring a safe and healthy workplace.
• Workplace Culture: Ensuring 
employees have an inclusive and 
supportive workplace environment that 
includes a variety of benefits such as 
health care programs, paid time off and 
work-life balance.
• Human Rights in the Workplace: 
Providing a workplace that respects 
the basic human rights and freedoms of 
all workers, including eliminating child 
labor, discrimination and forced labor.Environment
• Water Stewardship: Managing water 
resources strategically throughout the 
value chain.
• Packaging Footprint: Reducing the 
environmental impact of our packaging.
• Food Waste: Addressing food waste 
and loss from farm to table.
• Energy Management: Managing 
energy usage and costs throughout 
the value chain, including agriculture, 
production, transportation and 
distribution.
• Waste Reduction: Ensuring as little 
waste as possible goes to landfill.
• Climate Change: Reducing GHG 
emissions and contributing to the 
mitigation of and adaptation to 
the effects of climate change, and 
understanding climate change risks.
• Deforestation: Understanding the 
impacts of deforestation in the value 
chain and making commitments to 
mitigate the impacts.
• Sustainable Agriculture: Addressing 
issues related to farming, such as soil 
health, pesticide use, deforestation, 
biodiversity and water use.
• Logistics and Transportation: 
Addressing the environmental impacts 
from the transportation of our products.
Step 4: Validation
Campbell’s Sustainability Steering 
Committee met to review the findings 
and validate the issues. These issues 
were then presented to various company 
leaders who also provided their input 
on the importance of these issues to 
Campbell’s overall company strategies. 
Based on the results of these steps, we 
created a materiality grid, which maps 
where our long-term business success 
aligns with marketplace and stakeholder 
priorities. We will utilize these findings 
to identify and validate opportunities for 
strengthening our corporate responsibility 
strategies and reporting in the future.Corporate Responsibility Materiality, cont.
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
65
APPENDIXDISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE TITLE 2018 RESPONSE
GRI 102: General Disclosures
Organizational Profile
102-1 Name of the organization The Campbell Soup Company
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Corporate Profile (5-6)
102-3 Location of headquarters Corporate Profile (6)
102-4 Location of operations Corporate Profile (6)
102-5 Ownership and legal form Publicly traded company
102-6 Markets served Corporate Profile (6)
102-7 Scale of the organization Corporate Profile (6); 10-K p.15
102-8 Information on employees and other workers
Employees by Region and Type, Salary, and Gender
RegionTotal 
Employees Full-Time Part-Time Hourly Salaried Male Female Undeclared
Americas 12,431 12,030 401 8,675 3,756 7,353 5,077 1
Europe 405 349 56 322 83 178 227 0
Asia-Pac 3,906 3,328 578 2,572 1,334 2,096 1,810 0
Total 16,742 15,707 1,035 11,569 5,173 9,627 7,114 1
Employees by Contract and Gender
Americas Europe Asia-Pacific Total
Permanent 12,431 405 3,906 16,742
Female 5,077 227 1,810 7,114
Male 7,353 178 2,096 9,627
Undeclared 1 0 0 1
Contractors 3,634 0 162 3,796
Female Not tracked Not tracked Not tracked Not tracked
Male Not tracked Not tracked Not tracked Not tracked
Undeclared 3,634 0 162 3,796
Total 16,065 405 4,068 20,538
Employees by Type and Region
Americas Europe Asia-Pacific Total
Full Time 12,030 349 3,328 15,707
Female 4,862 202 1,341 6,405
Male 7,167 147 1,987 9,301
Undeclared 1 0 0 1
Part Time 401 56 578 1,035
Female 215 25 469 709
Male 186 31 109 326
Undeclared 0 0 0 0
Total 12,431 405 3,906 16,742GRI Content Index
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
66
APPENDIXOrganizational Profile (cont.)
102-9 Supply chain Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Sustainability Strategy (7); 
Grown (16-21); Sourced (22-28); 10-K p.3-8
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its  
supply chainWhere We’re Headed (2); 10-K p.3, Campbell has an internal 
process through which it conducts comprehensive due diligence 
when considering joint ventures or prospective suppliers.
102-11 Precautionary principle or approach We take a precautionary approach to the environment by seeking to 
apply processes or practices with less environmental impact when 
possible. Campbell’s Legal Department prepares a comprehensive 
report on current legal exposures, trends and risks that is presented 
annually to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. This 
report assesses the risks faced by the company in the geographies 
in which it does business. The Legal Department also provides an 
annual report to the Governance Committee of the Board of 
Directors on trends and developments in corporate governance.  
See also Produced—How We Manage (30).
102-12 External initiatives Appendix—Stakeholder Engagement (63)
102-13 Membership of associations Appendix—Stakeholder Engagement (63)
Strategy
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO Message (3-4)
Ethics and Integrity
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Corporate Profile (5-6); 
Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Governance (11-12);
Revised corporate policies and guidelines are issued every year. 
Existing policy statements that are regularly reviewed and revised 
as needed include:
• Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
• Anti-Bribery Policy
• Global Guidelines for Responsible Advertising to Children
• Commitment Concerning Advertising to Children
• Environmental Sustainability Policy
• Human Rights Principles
• Political Accountability Guidelines
• Supply Base Requirements and Expectations Manual
• Responsible Sourcing Supplier Code
Governance
102-18 Governance structure Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Governance (11);  
Campbell’s 2018 Proxy Statement
Stakeholder Engagement
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Stakeholder Engagement (15)
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 29 percent of our workforce is unionized or covered by collective 
bargaining agreements.
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Stakeholder Engagement (15)
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Stakeholder Engagement (15)
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Stakeholder Engagement (15)GRI Content Index
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
67
APPENDIXReporting Practices
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 10-K p.3; Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Corporate Profile (5-6)
102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Materiality (13, 64-65)
This report includes content on our key material corporate 
responsibility issues and an update to key performance metrics, 
including progress against our new 2025 goals. Significant policy 
or program advances and recognition occurring before or after 
FY2018 may also be included. This Report covers our owned and 
leased facilities on a global basis where we have operational control, 
but does not include our two newest acquisitions, Pacific Foods 
(acquired December 2017) and Snyder’s-Lance (acquired March 2018).
Unless otherwise stated, principles and policies referenced in the 
report apply to locations operated worldwide, and to all 
employees of Campbell Soup Company. Bolthouse Farms was 
acquired in August 2012. Plum Organics was acquired in June 
2013, and Campbell worked with Plum to incorporate it as a Public 
Benefit Corporation (PBC) under Delaware law in August 2013 and 
gain B Corp certification. Kelsen was acquired in August 2013 and 
Garden Fresh Gourmet was acquired in June 2015.
102-47 List of material topics Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Materiality (13)
102-48 Restatements of information Our environmental data has been restated back to 2008 to include 
the Bolthouse Farms, Plum Organics, Kelsen and Garden Fresh 
Gourmet acquisitions.
102-49 Changes in reporting None
102-50 Reporting period Fiscal Year 2018 (July 31, 2017—July 29, 2018)
102-51 Date of most recent report February 2018
102-52 Reporting cycle Biennial, with updates annually
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report We value and welcome feedback from interested stakeholders. 
Contact Megan Maltenfort, Senior Manager—Corporate Social 
Responsibility, One Campbell Place, MS131, Camden, NJ 08103. 
You may also contact us via our dedicated CSR Feedback Email 
Address: csr_feedback@campbellsoup.com. 
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 
StandardsThis report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: 
Core option. This report also includes some content that addresses 
comprehensive-level disclosures. Please see our GRI Content Index 
for more details and www.globalreporting.org to learn more about the 
GRI framework.
102-55 GRI content index We provide a complete GRI Standards content index in the 
Appendix, beginning on page 66.
102-56 External assurance In 2016, we successfully completed a third-party limited assurance 
review consistent with guidance provided by ISO 14064-3 of our 
GHG emissions inventory. This assurance process was under the 
supervision of the Vice President of Corporate Responsibility and 
Sustainability. In 2017, we completed a similar third-party limited 
assurance review consistent with guidance provided by ISAE 3000 
of our FY2016 nutrition and related sales data.
Economic
GRI 201: Economic Performance
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 10-K, CDP , Performance Scorecard (61-62)
103-2 The management approach and its components 10-K
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 10-K
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 10-K, Performance Scorecard (61-62)
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and 
opportunities due to climate change10-K, CDP
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other  
retirement plans10-K, Performance Scorecard (62)GRI Content Index
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
68
APPENDIXGRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Shared: Communities—How We Manage (54)
103-2 The management approach and its components Shared: Communities—How We Manage (54)
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Shared: Communities—How We Manage (54)
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Shared: Communities (53-60)
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Shared: Communities (53-60)
GRI 204: Procurement Practices
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Sourced—How We Manage (23)
103-2 The management approach and its components Sourced—How We Manage (23)
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Sourced—How We Manage (23)
204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers We do not currently track this data, but are determining the 
feasibility of tracking it in the future.
FP1 Percentage of purchased volume from suppliers 
compliant with company’s sourcing policyWhile Campbell maintains policies on supplier standards, we do not 
currently track the total volume of ingredients that are compliant 
with our policies. We do, however, audit our suppliers against our 
Supply Base Requirements and Expectations Manual and will work 
towards being able to provide this information in the future.
FP2 Percentage of purchased volume which is verified 
as being in accordance with credible, internationally 
recognized responsible production standards, broken 
down by standardCage-Free Eggs: 16%
“No Antibiotics Ever” Chicken: 98%
Crate-Free Pork: 57%
Responsibly Sourced Palm Oil (RSPO): Campbell purchases 100% 
RSPO. We are working to integrate Snyder’s-Lance, acquired in 
March 2018, into our certified supply.
GRI 205: Anti-corruption
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Governance (11-12);  
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
103-2 The management approach and its components Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Governance (11-12);  
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Governance (11-12);  
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Campbell’s Legal Department prepares a comprehensive report on 
current legal exposures, trends and risks that is presented annually 
to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. This report 
assesses the risks faced by the company in the geographies in 
which it does business. The Legal Department also provides an 
annual report to the Governance Committee of the Board of 
Directors on trends and developments in corporate governance.  
In addition, an annual Conflicts Certification is sent to mid- and 
upper-level management to assess conflicts of interest.
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption 
policies and proceduresEach year, Campbell provides comprehensive online and in-person 
training for employees on core ethics and compliance issues and 
risk-based training tailored to the issues associated with employees’ 
specific job responsibilities. As part of the Winning with Integrity  
program, all employees are required to complete regular training 
on our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
This training, offered in multiple languages, is available online for 
most employees, but also offered in DVD format for employees in 
our manufacturing facilities.
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken There have been no confirmed incidents of corruption.GRI Content Index
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
69
APPENDIXGRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Governance (11-12);  
10-K p.4-5; Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Anti-Bribery Policy
103-2 The management approach and its components Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Governance (11-12); 10-K p.5; 
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Anti-Bribery Policy
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Governance (11-12); 10-K p.5; 
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Anti-Bribery Policy
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, 
and monopoly practicesThere were no legal actions during the reporting period regarding 
anti-competitive behavior and violations of anti-trust and monopoly 
legislation in which Campbell's has been identified as a participant.
Environmental
GRI 302: Energy
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Produced—How We Manage (30)
103-2 The management approach and its components Produced—How We Manage (30)
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Produced—How We Manage (30)
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Performance Scorecard (61); CDP
302-3 Energy intensity Performance Scorecard (61); CDP
Campbell defines intensity as Energy Use/ Tonne of Food Produced.
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Performance Scorecard (61); CDP
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products  
and servicesPerformance Scorecard (61); CDP
GRI 303: Water
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Grown—How We Manage (17); Produced—How We Manage (30)
103-2 The management approach and its components Grown—How We Manage (17); Produced—How We Manage (30); 
Produced—Managing Every Drop (32) 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Grown—How We Manage (17); Produced—How We Manage (30)
303-1 Water withdrawal by source Performance Scorecard (61); CDP Water
303-3 Water recycled and reused This information is not currently tracked.
GRI 305: Emissions
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Grown—How We Manage (17); Produced—How We Manage (30)
103-2 The management approach and its components Grown—How We Manage (17); Produced—How We Manage (30)
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Grown—How We Manage (17); Produced—How We Manage (30)
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Performance Scorecard (61); CDP
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Performance Scorecard (61); CDP
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Performance Scorecard (61); CDP
305-4 GHG emissions intensity Performance Scorecard (61); CDP
Campbell defines intensity as Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions/
Tonne of Food Produced.
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Performance Scorecard (61); CDPGRI Content Index
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
70
APPENDIXGRI 306: Effluents and Waste
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Produced—How We Manage (30)
103-2 The management approach and its components Produced—How We Manage (30)
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Produced—How We Manage (30)
306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Performance Scorecard (61), CDP Water
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Performance Scorecard (62)
306-3 Significant spills There were no significant spills in FY2018.
306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Performance Scorecard (62)
No transported, imported, exported or treated waste deemed 
hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention. The primary 
hazardous materials include waste chemicals, used/waste oil, paint 
and medical waste. Please note that for some international sites, plant 
trash is also considered a hazardous waste. Hazardous waste is 
disposed by incineration, treatment/neutralization and fuel programs.
GRI 307: Environmental Compliance
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 10-K p.5; Produced—How We Manage (30)
Campbell Soup Company has an Environmental Management 
System with one of the key aspects being an electronic system, 
the Campbell’s Environmental Management & Metrics System 
(CEMMS). The CEMMS system is used globally at our facilities and 
is the backbone of our overall Environmental Management System. 
The CEMMS system addresses our document management, 
permit tracking, monitoring and measurement, tasks and calendar 
management, waste and recycling tracking/reporting, inspection 
notifications, incidents of notice of violations management, audits 
management, energy tracking/reporting and refrigerant tracking/
reporting. While this system is auditable and supports ISO 14001, 
our Environmental Management System is not ISO 14001 certified, 
and we currently do not have any facilities that are ISO 14001 or 
OHSAS 18001 certified.103-2 The management approach and its components
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and 
regulationsCampbell incurred $450 in environmental fines in FY2018.
GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Grown—How We Manage (17); Sourced—How We Manage (23)
103-2 The management approach and its components Grown—How We Manage (17); Sourced—How We Manage (23)
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Grown—How We Manage (17); Sourced—How We Manage (23)
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using 
environmental criteriaSourced—Our Strategic Focus Areas and Goals (24-25)
Our Responsible Sourcing Supplier Code is available to all 
suppliers and holds our suppliers accountable to environmental 
standards. We are still developing management systems for 
comprehensive supplier screening.
308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain 
and actions takenThere were no negative environmental impacts identified in the 
supply chain in FY2018.GRI Content Index
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
71
APPENDIXSocial
GRI 401: Employment
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Shared: Employees—How We Manage (37);  
Shared: Employees—Using Transparency to Transform Careers (40)
103-2 The management approach and its components Shared: Employees—How We Manage (37);  
Shared: Employees—Using Transparency to Transform Careers (40)
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Shared: Employees—How We Manage (37);  
Shared: Employees—Using Transparency to Transform Careers (40)
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover are listed below. Voluntary turnover for FY2018 was 11 percent  
and involuntary turnover was 6 percent, with a total turnover rate of 17 percent.
New Hires vs. Turnover by Age, Gender, and Region
Age Range New Hires Turnover
30 and under 865 824
31-50 758 1,083
51 and over 180 544
Total 1,803 2,451
Gender New Hires Turnover
Female 637 869
Male 1,166 1,581
Undeclared 0 1
Total 1,803 2,451
Region New Hires Turnover
Americas 1,479 1,916
Europe 17 18
Asia-Pacific 307 517
Total 1,496 1,934
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 
provided to temporary or part-time employeesWhile employee benefits may vary for global locations, Campbell 
offers a robust employee benefits package that may include paid 
sick days, paid vacation, bereavement leave, education benefits, 
relocation assistance, health insurance (individual and family), dental 
insurance (individual and family), vision insurance, domestic partner 
benefits, life insurance, disability insurance (including long-term), 
flexible spending accounts (health care and child care), stock 
options, bonus plans, 401(k) savings plans, an onsite daycare center 
(WHQ), onsite fitness center (WHQ), paid maternity and paternity 
leave, adoption assistance, and retiree health care. Campbell Soup 
Company also offers corporate benefits to both same- and opposite-
sex couples and has a workplace flexibility policy.
401-3 Parental leave Shared: Employees—Benefits That Matter for Life’s Moments (39)
FP3 Percentage of working time lost due to industrial 
disputes, strikes and/or lock-outs, by country.There was no lost time due to industrial disputes, strikes and/or 
lock-outs in FY2018.
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Shared: Employees—How We Manage (37)
103-2 The management approach and its components Shared: Employees—How We Manage (37)
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Shared: Employees—How We Manage (37)
403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management—
worker health and safety committees100 percent of Campbell’s workforce is represented in formal 
joint management-worker health and safety committees that help 
monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. 
All of our locations have some form of health and safety committee 
with representation from all employee levels. In some countries the 
composition of those committees is legislated.GRI Content Index
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
72
APPENDIX403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational 
diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number  
of work-related fatalitiesShared: Employees—Safety for Everyone, Every Day (41); 
Performance Scorecard (62)
GRI 404: Training and Education
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Shared: Employees—How We Manage (37);  
Shared: Employees—Using Transparency to Transform Careers (40)  
103-2 The management approach and its components Shared: Employees—How We Manage (37);  
Shared: Employees—Using Transparency to Transform Careers (40)
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Shared: Employees—How We Manage (37);  
Shared: Employees—Using Transparency to Transform Careers (40)
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee We track the following metrics related to training & development:
—Average amount spent on training an employee annually: $607
—Average number of hours of training per employee annually: 10
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 
assistance programsShared: Employees—Using Transparency to Transform Careers (40)
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 
performance and career development reviews100 percent of employees receive an annual performance evaluation.
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Shared: Employees—How We Manage (37)
103-2 The management approach and its components Shared: Employees—How We Manage (37)
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Shared: Employees—How We Manage (37)
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees
Age Group (Global)
<31 31-50 >50 Total
Board of 
Directors0 0 12 12
Global 
Employees 3,267 7,946 5,529 16,742
Gender (Global)
Female Male Undeclared Total
Board of 
Directors4 8 0 12
Top  
Management 14 48 0 62
Management 787 1,024 0 1,811
Non-
Management6,313 8,555 1 14,869
Ethnicity (United States)
Hispanic/ 
LatinoBlack/African 
American White Asian OtherDid Not 
Disclose Total
Top  
Management 8 0 46 2 0 3 59
Management 75 62 1,049 127 27 21 1,361
Non-  
Management 2,732 1,383 5,086 428 461 263 10,353
Total 2,815 1,445 6,181 557 488 287 11,773GRI Content Index
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
73
APPENDIX405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men
Average Annual Base Pay (USD)
Top Management Level U.S. Outside U.S.
Average female salary $327,193 N/A 
Average male salary $419,205 $523,264 
Management Level U.S. Outside U.S.
Average female salary $145,220 $108,940 
Average male salary $154,060 $122,023 
Non-Management Level U.S. Outside U.S.
Average female salary $50,094 $43,490 
Average male salary $51,283 $46,516 
GRI 406: Non-discrimination
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Governance (12);  
Shared: Employees—How We Manage (37)
103-2 The management approach and its components Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Governance (12);  
Shared: Employees—How We Manage (37)
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Governance (12);  
Shared: Employees—How We Manage (37)
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken The company has not been fined or disciplined by the EEOC in the 
last five years.
GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Sourced—How We Manage (23); Sourced—Our Strategic Focus 
Areas and Goals (25); Shared: Employees—How We Manage (37)
103-2 The management approach and its components Sourced—How We Manage (23); Sourced—Our Strategic Focus 
Areas and Goals (25); Shared: Employees—How We Manage (37)
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Sourced—How We Manage (23); Sourced—Our Strategic Focus 
Areas and Goals (25); Shared: Employees—How We Manage (37)
412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights 
reviews or impact assessmentsAs part of our customers’ social accountability programs, five of our 
facilities participated in social responsibility audits in FY2018. The 
company has not been involved in any human rights controversies, 
has not incurred any fines by governmental organizations related to 
human rights issues, and has not been subject to any human rights 
litigation in the last five years.
412-2 Employee training on human rights policies and 
proceduresAll employees have access to Campbell’s Human Rights Principles, 
and employee training occurs in operations located in high-risk 
countries when necessary.
412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts 
that include human rights clauses or that underwent 
human rights screening100 percent of our suppliers have expectations for human rights 
outlined in our purchase contract terms and conditions.
GRI 413: Local Communities
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Shared: Communities—How We Manage (54)
103-2 The management approach and its components Shared: Communities—How We Manage (54)
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Shared: Communities—How We Manage (54)
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact 
assessments and development programsWe have community engagement programs in all of the locations  
in which we operate.GRI Content Index
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
74
APPENDIXGRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Sourced—How We Manage (23)
103-2 The management approach and its components Sourced—How We Manage (23)
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Sourced—How We Manage (23)
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Sourced—Our Strategic Focus Areas and Goals (24)
100 percent of our suppliers have expectations for human rights 
outlined in our purchase contract terms and conditions and our 
Responsible Sourcing Supplier Code. We are still developing 
management systems for comprehensive supplier screening.
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and 
actions takenOne of our suppliers was found to be in violation of our Responsible 
Sourcing Supplier Code. As a result, we have requested that they 
complete a SMETA social compliance audit. We are simultaneously 
working to identify a new supplier for this ingredient. 
GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Produced—How We Manage (30); Shared: Consumers—How We 
Manage (45)
103-2 The management approach and its components Produced—How We Manage (30); Shared: Consumers—How We 
Manage (45)
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Produced—How We Manage (30); Shared: Consumers—How We 
Manage (45)
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of 
product and service categoriesProduced—Working Together for Improved Food Safety (35); 
Performance Scorecard (62)
416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health 
and safety impacts of products and servicesIn FY2018, Campbell had no Class I recalls and two Class II recalls 
related to Wolfgang Puck®  Organic Creamy Butternut Squash soup in 
Canada and Pepperidge Farm®  Goldfish®  crackers in North America, 
which have both been resolved through corrective actions.
FP5 Percentage of production volume manufactured in 
sites certified by an independent third party according 
to internationally recognized food safety management 
system standardsProduced—Working Together for Improved Food Safety (35)
FP6 Percentage of total sales volume of consumer 
products, by product category, that are lowered in 
saturated fat, trans fats, sodium and added sugarsPerformance Scorecard (62)
FP7 Percentage of total sales volume of consumer products, 
by product category, that contain increased nutritious 
ingredients like fiber, vitamins, minerals, phytochemicals 
or functional food additivesPerformance Scorecard (62)
GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Sourced—How We Manage (23); Produced—How We Manage (30); 
Shared: Consumers—How We Manage (45)
103-2 The management approach and its components Sourced—How We Manage (23); Produced—How We Manage (30); 
Shared: Consumers—How We Manage (45)
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Sourced—How We Manage (23); Produced—How We Manage (30); 
Shared: Consumers—How We Manage (45)
417-1 Requirements for product and service information  
and labelingSourced—A Packaging Evolution at Plum Organics (27);  
Produced—Working Together for Improved Food Safety (35); 
Shared: Consumers (44-52); whatsinmyfood.com; Global Guidelines 
for Responsible Advertising to Children; Commitment Concerning 
Advertising to Children (U.S.) 
417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and 
service information and labelingThere have been zero incidents of non-compliance concerning 
product and service information and labeling in FY2018.
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing 
communicationsThere have been zero incidents of non-compliance concerning 
marketing communications in FY2018.GRI Content Index
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
75
APPENDIXGRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Governance (11-12);  
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
103-2 The management approach and its components Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Governance (11-12);  
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Governance (11-12);  
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the 
social and economic areaThere were zero incidents of non-compliance with laws and 
regulations in the social and economic area in FY2018.
Animal Welfare
FP9 Percentage and total of animals raised and/or 
processed, by species and breed typeWe do not raise or process animals, so this is not applicable.
FP10 Policies and practices, by species and breed type, 
related to physical alterations and the use of anestheticWe do not raise or process animals, so this is not applicable.
FP11 Percentage and total of animals raised and/or processed, 
by species and breed type, per housing typeWe do not raise or process animals, so this is not applicable.
FP12 Policies and practices on antibiotic, anti-inflammatory, 
hormone, and/or growth promotion treatments, by 
species and breed typeWe do not raise or process animals, so this is not applicable.
FP13 Total number of incidents of significant non-compliance 
with laws and regulations, and adherence with voluntary 
standards related to transportation, handling, and 
slaughter practices for live terrestrial and aquatic animalsWe do not raise or process animals, so this is not applicable.GRI Content Index
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
76
APPENDIXPRINCIPLE  
NUMBERDESCRIPTION REPORT SECTION/LINKS
1 Support and respect protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Human Rights Principles
Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Governance (11-12)
Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Stakeholder 
Engagement (15)
Sourced (22)
Shared: Employees (36)
2 Make sure business is not complicit in human rights abuses Human Rights Principles
Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Governance (11-12)
Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Stakeholder 
Engagement (15)
Sourced (22)
Shared: Employees (36)
3 Uphold freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right 
to collective bargainingHuman Rights Principles 
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Stakeholder 
Engagement (15)
Sourced (22)
Shared: Employees (36)
GRI Content Index—102-41 (67)
4 Support elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Human Rights Principles
Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Governance (11-12)
Sourced (22)
5 Support effective abolition of child labor Human Rights Principles
Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Governance (11-12)
Sourced (22)
6 Eliminate discrimination in employment and occupation Human Rights Principles
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Governance (11-12)
Shared: Employees (36)
7 Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
Grown (16)
Sourced (22)
Produced (29)
GRI Content Index—102-11 (67)
8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
Grown (16)
Sourced (22)
Produced (29)
9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally  
friendly technologiesCode of Business Conduct and Ethics
Grown (16)
Sourced (22)
Produced (29)
10 Work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery 10-K p.4-5
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
Corporate Responsibility at Campbell—Governance (11-12)
Anti-Bribery Policy
GRI Content Index—GRI 205: Anti-corruption (69)
GRI Content Index—GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior (70)UN Global Compact Index
The UN Global Compact (UNGC) is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their 
operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment 
and anti-corruption. Campbell committed to the principles of the UNGC in 2009. Below is an index of our reporting 
against the UNGC principles within the content of this 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report.
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
77
APPENDIXCreating opportunities for 
people in need, especially in 
our hometown communities. 
Lasting Solutions for  
Our Hometowns 
Building a Network of  
Real Solutions 
Ensuring our operations 
do not adversely affect 
local water resources. 
Managing Every Drop 
How Arnott’s and Kelsen Are 
Doing More for the Planet
Using our resources as  
a food company to end 
hunger through cash and 
product donations. 
Lasting Solutions for Our 
Hometowns 
Building a Network of  
Real Solutions 
Giving that Matters Week 2018
Feeding People, Ending Food 
Waste: That’s Just Peachy®  
Healthy Eating From the  
Very Start
Committing to 40 percent 
renewable or alternative 
energy to meet our 
electricity needs by 
FY2020.
Solar Energy Is Heating Up  
in Camden 
Responding to consumer 
trends and offering 
products that contribute  
to a healthy diet.
Working Together for Improved 
Food Safety 
Benefits That Matter for Life’s 
Moments 
Safety for Everyone, Every Day 
Safety Starts With Us 
What We’re Taking Out of  
Our Food 
Well Yes!®: A Better Soup from 
the Can Up
Putting Transparency on  
the Menu 
Making Healthy Eating More 
Convenient 
Sowing Change With 
FoodCorps
Healthy Eating From the  
Very Start
Building a workplace 
guided by Our Values  
and helping emerging 
businesses succeed. 
A Triple Win for Arnott’s 
Using Transparency to 
Transform Careers
Investing in the Future of Food
Building a Network of Real 
Solutions
Educating community 
members about the 
importance of nutritious 
food. 
Lasting Solutions for  
Our Hometowns 
Sowing Change With 
FoodCorps
Innovating through our 
products, the agricultural 
practices we promote and 
the level of transparency 
with which we communicate. 
Real Food Shouldn’t Go  
to Waste 
Working Together for Improved 
Food Safety
What’s New in Real Food 
Putting Transparency on  
the Menu 
Investing in the Future of Food 
Campbell Leads on GMO 
Transparency 
Supporting women in our 
workforce and supply chain. 
Diverse Suppliers for a Diverse 
Consumer Base 
Helping Professionals Return  
to Work
Helping Campbell Women Lift 
Each Other Up
How our sustainability initiatives intersect the 17 goals outlined in the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
Leveling the playing field 
for underprivileged 
employees, suppliers and 
people in our communities. 
Diverse Suppliers for a Diverse 
Consumer Base
Helping Professionals Return 
to Work
Helping Campbell Women  
Lift Each Other Up
Campbell ID Networks  
Add Value 
Building a Network of Real 
Solutions
Sowing Change with FoodCorps
Feeding People, Ending Food 
Waste: That’s Just Peachy®
Healthy Eating From the  
Very Start
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
78
APPENDIXStrengthening the 
communities where  
we operate worldwide 
through volunteerism 
and partnerships. 
Lasting Solutions for  
Our Hometowns 
Building a Network of  
Real Solutions 
Sowing Change with FoodCorps
Giving that Matters Week 2018
Feeding People, Ending Food 
Waste: That’s Just Peachy® 
Arnott’s Employees Make a 
Difference in Southeast Asia 
Supporting Healthy 
Communities in Campbell’s 
Hometowns 
A Record Year for the  
Arnott’s Foundation 
Operating our company 
guided by a foundation of 
ethical business practices.  
Governance 
Ethics 
Responsibly sourcing raw 
materials and minimizing 
resource consumption and 
waste during production.
Tradition Meets Technology at 
Bolthouse Farms 
Report Cards Extend All the 
Way to the Farm
Growing Tomatoes Is a  
Family Affair 
Making Sustainable 
Agriculture the Norm
A More Transparent Palm Oil 
Supply Chain 
Where Does Arnott’s 
Chocolate Come From? 
Making Progress on  
Animal Welfare
A Triple Win for Arnott’s 
The Australian Packaging 
Covenant 
A Packaging Evolution at  
Plum Organics
Real Food Shouldn’t Go  
to Waste
Making the Most of Every 
Vegetable
Working Together for 
Improved Food Safety
Partnering with internal 
and external stakeholders 
to address major industry 
challenges. 
Stakeholder Engagement
Real Food Shouldn’t Go  
to Waste 
Working Together for 
Improved Food Safety
Putting Transparency on  
the Menu 
Campbell Leads on  
GMO Transparency 
Investing in the Future of Food 
Reducing the GHG 
emissions associated with 
growing, transporting and 
producing our food. 
Tradition Meets Technology at 
Bolthouse Farms 
Report Cards Extend All the 
Way to the Farm
2020 Tomato Goals: Where  
We Stand
Making Sustainable Agriculture 
the Norm
Solar Energy Is Heating Up  
in Camden
Making Our Refrigeration 
Systems More Efficient
Shipping Smarter With 
SmartWay®
Real Food Shouldn’t Go to Waste 
How Arnott’s and Kelsen Are 
Doing More for the Planet
Protecting water resources 
by minimizing nitrogen 
runoff and other activities. 
Tradition Meets Technology at 
Bolthouse Farms 
Report Cards Extend All the 
Way to the Farm
2020 Tomato Goals: Where 
We Stand
Making Sustainable 
Agriculture the Norm
How Arnott’s and Kelsen Are 
Doing More for the Planet 
Responsibly sourcing  
raw materials whose 
cultivation may contribute 
to deforestation.  
Our Strategic Focus Areas  
and Goals
A More Transparent Palm Oil 
Supply Chain
UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
79
