21
Corporate 
   Citizenship
ReportA message from our CEO  ________________________________________  4
Essential to care™  _____________________________________________________  8
Diversity, equity and inclusion  _______________________________  10
Creating value for our customers and partners  _____  30
Strengthening our communities  ___________________________  36
Operating sustainably  ___________________________________________  48
Governance and ethics  _________________________________________  54Inside  
this reportWe deliver products  
and solutions to 
improve the lives  
of people every day. Why we exist
Where we are going
How we will growWhat we value
We aspire to be healthcare’s 
most trusted partner by 
building upon our scale and 
heritage in distribution, products 
and solutions, while driving growth 
in evolving areas of healthcare 
through customer insights, data 
and analytics, and focusing our 
resources on what matters most. 
Focus on the 
customerStrengthen
our c ore
Delive r
resultsInvest for th e
futureGrow & develop
our peopl eIntegrity 
we hold ourselves to the highest 
ethical standards 
Inclusive 
we embrace differences to drive 
the best outcomes
Innovative
we develop new ways of thinking, 
operating and serving customers
Accountable 
we bring passion, determination 
and grit to deliver on our 
commitments 
Mission driven 
we serve the greater goal  
of healthcare
2  3  
Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   GovernanceThis year marked the 50-year anniversary of Cardinal Health, and 
for 30 of those years, I have had the privilege of being a part of our 
growth and evolution. Over the past half century, there have been two 
constants: change, and an unwavering commitment to our customers, 
partners, employees and communities. This year, more than ever, I 
reflect on how dramatically the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted 
communities around the globe and how our customers care for them. 
It is our honor at Cardinal Health to support our customers in these 
efforts and grow and evolve, combining our deep heritage in business 
with a bias toward action as we shape the future. 
Our environmental, social and governance (ESG) 
priorities are more critical than ever to our shared 
future. As a global company, we know that the 
long-term health of our employees, customers, 
partners and communities depends on a healthier, 
more sustainable and equitable world. In many 
ways, the pandemic has exposed how much our 
world still needs to change in order to protect 
and serve the most vulnerable among us and 
create a more inclusive future. This motivates 
us as we continually push ourselves to find 
ways to care for our people and our planet, 
and we remain grateful to our Board of 
Directors for their ongoing oversight 
and support of our enterprise 
ESG priorities and initiatives 
year over year. These  
efforts are highlighted  
throughout  
this report.
Strengthening our focus on diversity, equity and inclusion
We believe representation matters and are committed to using our 
voices to speak out against racism and inequities of any kind —  
making diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) foundational to 
everything that we do. 
DE&I is about ensuring that our people — every employee and 
potential employee, and every customer, partner and supplier —  
feel welcome, included and valued. While that’s the right thing to do, 
research proves it’s also smart business. A recent survey of more  
than 1,000 global companies, for example, demonstrates the 
relationship between diverse leadership teams and  
positive financial results.1
In FY21, we established specific goals for significantly increasing 
the representation of our African American and Black employees 
and other ethnic minority populations in the U.S., as well as the 
representation of women in our employee populations around the 
world by 2030. We also recently announced a comprehensive talent 
strategy to increase access to leadership development programs for diverse employees at the management level and above, 
including professional development, career counseling and 
mentoring. This commitment is aimed at increasing the company's 
global leadership representation of women, as well as African 
American and Black, Asian, Latinx, Indigenous and all other ethnically 
diverse groups in the U.S. Finally, we're expanding DE&I metrics in 
our FY22 annual incentive plan and performance share units under 
our long-term incentive plan, further reinforcing globally our cultural 
commitment with our employees and leaders.
DE&I leads to better performance, makes us more innovative and 
agile, and enables us to solve problems more quickly and creatively. 
To help ensure continuous innovation, DE&I must be a leading factor 
in everything we do.
I’m proud of the progress we’ve made, but we still have work to do. 
Achieving a culture that is truly diverse, equitable and inclusive is a 
journey to which my executive team and I are committed.A message from our CEO
Setting environmental goals
We continue to identify opportunities to help combat climate change and build a sustainable economy.  
I’m proud to share here for the first time that Cardinal Health has committed to reducing Scope 1 and 2 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 50% by FY30 (measured from our FY19 data), as we continue to do our 
part and reduce our potential environmental impact. 
We’ve also broadened our Total Waste Management (TWM) initiative, which simplifies and 
standardizes waste management across our businesses and contributes to our environmental 
sustainability. In FY21, we extended TWM throughout our pharmaceutical distribution, 
specialty and global logistics businesses and continue to expand it across the enterprise. 
5  4  
Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   GovernanceLeading through the pandemic to support  
our customers and partners
As in many industries, the COVID-19 
pandemic drove fast-paced, significant 
changes within healthcare and in  
our business. 
Our people are our most important asset. Over and over 
again, they showed remarkable commitment to our 
customers, responding to dramatic and unforeseen changes 
with both agility and determination. I continue to be inspired 
by them every day.
At the start of the pandemic, we pivoted almost overnight 
to a work-from-home model for those who could work 
remotely. We very quickly developed safety protocols for 
our essential workers — those who continued working in 
our manufacturing facilities, distribution centers and critical 
customer operations to help provide our customers with 
products and services critical to healthcare. (You can read 
more about our initial response to the pandemic in our  
FY20 Corporate Citizenship Report .)
Our employees were able to quickly learn new ways of doing 
business to continue serving customers and communities 
around the world. As a result, we kept all of our facilities open 
and operating throughout FY21. We have kept patient safety 
and product quality at the forefront of every decision  
we make. 
Early on, we began reevaluating our entire supply chain to 
respond to the unprecedented increase and surges in global 
demand for gowns, masks and other personal protective 
equipment (PPE). We changed our sourcing practices to limit 
geographic concentration of products coming from a single country and expanded self-manufacturing capabilities in 
North America for some of our PPE products. We also began a 
partnership with FourKites, a leader in supply chain visibility, 
to continue optimizing our supply chain based on actionable 
data and predictive intelligence. 
We changed inventory practices, increasing inventory of 
certain products so that we can more quickly meet spikes 
in demand, and collaborated with U.S. and foreign trade 
authorities to expedite shipments and shorten lead times. As 
a result of a $58 million contract with the U.S. Department of 
Health and Human Services (HHS), we stored and distributed 
80,000 pallets of PPE to support the U.S. Strategic National 
Stockpile (SNS), the country’s national repository of critical 
medical supplies that are used to supplement state and local 
supplies in public health emergencies. 
And we focused on developing and investing in innovative 
technology solutions and actionable data tools as never 
before, enabling meaningful, cost-effective and outcomes-
driven connections in healthcare. One example is 
MyScheduling, a digital solution specific to COVID-19 that 
enables U.S.-based independent pharmacists to schedule 
vaccinations (and allows patients to schedule their own 
appointments), creates waiting lists for patients not 
yet eligible for the vaccine, gathers screening and 
demographic information and generates reports on 
daily appointments. 
We remain focused on innovating solutions 
that enhance how we serve our 
customers and their communities 
— throughout the pandemic 
and beyond. 
Celebrating 50 years with an 
increased commitment to  
our communities 
We celebrated our 50th anniversary in January 2021 with a virtual 
bell ringing at the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and the kickoff 
to a year of service for Cardinal Health employees around the 
world. Our employees are passionate about giving back to our 
communities; during our anniversary year, we have a collective goal 
of giving 50,000 hours in volunteer service.
Through our Cardinal Health Foundation, we work to improve 
the health of our communities, particularly for disadvantaged 
populations. The Foundation focuses its investments on impacting 
social determinants of health, particularly hunger (by increasing 
access to healthy foods through its Food Rx for Health program and 
other initiatives) and homelessness. It also seeks to increase both 
access to and quality of physical and behavioral healthcare services.The Foundation also supports a variety of near-term and long-
term solutions designed to prevent prescription drug misuse 
and fight the opioid epidemic, from drug take-back initiatives 
to Generation Rx, an evidence-informed prevention, education 
and awareness program powered through a partnership 
between The Ohio State University College of Pharmacy and our 
Foundation since 2009. Generation Rx is designed to educate 
people of all ages about safe medication practices and the 
potential dangers of misusing prescription medications. 
 In July, we announced that we have negotiated a comprehensive 
proposed settlement agreement and settlement process designed 
to achieve broad resolution of governmental opioid claims. As I write 
this letter, we have determined that enough states have agreed to 
settle to proceed to the next phase, and each participating state will 
offer its political subdivisions the opportunity to participate in the 
settlement for an additional 120-day period, which ends January 2, 
2022. If all conditions are satisfied, this agreement would result in the 
settlement of a substantial majority of opioid lawsuits filed by state 
and local governmental entities and, depending on the level of state 
and subdivision participation, we would pay up to $6.4 billion over 
18 years. 
This is an important step forward. We remain committed to being 
a part of the solution to the U.S. opioid epidemic and believe the 
settlement would provide meaningful relief for our communities and 
certainty for our shareholders. 
Looking aheadLooking ahead
With our deep healthcare expertise, we are 
delivering solutions that enable our customers 
and partners to provide the best possible 
care for their patients and communities. 
At Cardinal Health, we know that change 
will be a constant, as will our unwavering 
commitment to our customers, partners, 
employees and communities. I hope you’ll read on, in the pages that follow 
and on our website, to learn more about 
our progress in becoming healthcare’s most 
trusted partner. 
Be well.
Mike Kaufmann, CEO
 6  7  
Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   Governance We distribute pharmaceuticals, 
manufacture and distribute medical 
and laboratory products, and provide 
performance and data solutions for 
healthcare facilities.
We are a crucial link between the 
clinical and operational sides of 
healthcare, delivering end-to-end 
solutions and data-driven insights 
that advance healthcare and improve 
lives every day.
With more than 50 years of 
experience, we seize the opportunity 
to address healthcare’s most 
complicated challenges — now, and 
in the future.Essential to care™
facebook.com/cardinalhealthinclinkedin.com/company/cardinal-healthcardinalhealth.com
@CardinalHealthWe operate in more  
than  35 countries 
 We serve nearly  
90%  of U.S. hospitals
We ship to more than  
140,000  locations globallyWe have more than   
4,500  sourcing and 
manufacturing partners  
across the healthcare  
supply chainThrough our distribution and  
services, we serve more than   
60,000 U.S. pharmaciesOutcomes™ 
Our digital ecosystem to support 
medication adherence currently 
reaches more than 23 million 
patients and more than 60 payers Specialty Solutions 
We serve more than  
10,000 specialty physician  
offices and clinics at-Home Solutions 
We serve more than  
3.4 million  patients with more than 
46,000  home healthcare products
Nuclear & Precision Health Solutions 
We have a U.S. network of  
more than 130  nuclear pharmacies  
and more than 30 PET sites and  
manufacturing facilitiesMedical Services 
Our OptiFreight® Logistics business 
makes 20 million  shipments 
annually to 22,000  shipping 
locations, and our WaveMark™ 
business optimizes the supply chain 
for more than 2,400  individual 
critical care areas from more than 
250  U.S. hospitals$162.5 billion in revenue in fiscal year 2021 Approximately 44,000 employees worldwide
8  9  
Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   Governance
8  21Diversity,  
equity     
 and inclusion
Creating awareness, access  
and opportunities for all
11  10  11  10  
Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   Governance
 Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   Governance
10  Representation matters 
At Cardinal Health, we have been deeply committed to 
fostering diversity and inclusion for years. As we continue to 
grapple with the COVID-19 pandemic and confront racism 
and social injustice, we continue our work to create a culture 
where everyone can thrive. We recently added "equity" to  
our global strategy. Adding equity, and advancing the work 
of diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I), is more essential  
than ever.
As you’ll read in the pages that follow, DE&I is foundational 
to who we are. It differentiates us as an employer and makes 
us more attractive to top talent around the world, which 
makes our company stronger. A focus on DE&I allows us to 
better meet the needs of our customers and partners — and 
the patients they care for — and fulfills our mission as an 
organization to make a positive difference in the lives of our 
employees and communities. 
Creating a workplace that is truly diverse, 
equitable and inclusive takes 
focused, thoughtful hard work and doesn’t happen overnight. However, we have 
a strong foundation. We’ve been refining our recruiting, 
development, succession and retention practices to ensure 
equitable access and opportunity, and we continue to listen, 
learn and act. 
Representation matters. Employees with a diversity of talent, 
experiences and ideas drive more innovation — innovation 
that propels our evolution from a distributor to a tech-
enabled healthcare solutions provider. That is why we are 
pleased to highlight on these pages our representation 
goals for 2030 — for women around the globe and, in the 
U.S., for African American and Black, Asian, Latinx, 
Indigenous and all other ethnically 
diverse individuals.Two distinct internal organizations are helping to guide our 
progress. Our DE&I Steering Council, composed of senior 
leaders from across the company, is charged with identifying 
and discussing barriers to DE&I, challenging the status quo and 
empowering change. Our African American and Black Racial Equity 
Cabinet also is made up of leaders, all of whom serve as truth 
tellers to our senior executives by identifying and naming issues of 
inequity both inside and outside the company.
As we continue this journey, we regularly assess our progress 
through a robust employee listening strategy, which includes engagement surveys, focus groups and onboarding assessments.  
We maintain open and transparent dialogue with external 
stakeholders, partners and investors, and proactively share 
information about our progress. 
We are proud of the work we’ve done, but 
we know there is much more to do.  
We are committed to listening, learning 
and acting to help drive change.
It’s important to note that equity is not interchangeable with  
equality — both are important. Equality means ensuring that everyone 
has the same amount of resources; equity means distributing resources 
based on the needs of the recipients. Equity brings focus to access 
gaps, which helps enable success for individuals. 
We focus on equality when we say equal pay for equal work, and we 
ensured years ago that LGBTQ+ employees have the same rights and 
protections as other groups — even before federal and state laws were 
expanded to provide protections for these employees.
But all individuals may not have the same access and opportunity. At 
left, we explore how individuals may experience the same situation 
in three distinct scenarios as we illustrate how gaps in access to 
education, healthcare, housing, financial resources and career 
opportunities can impact outcomes. Equity can help close the  
gaps in access.Diversity is any difference between 
individuals and groups.Equity focuses on the specific access gap  
to enable success for all individuals.Inclusion is a culture that values the  
unique perspectives and contributions  
of all employees.
In reality, success can be difficult to obtain  
for all individuals because of the access gap.Equality focuses on providing the same for all, 
regardless of the access gap.Equity focuses on the specific access gap to enable 
success for all individuals.Understanding diversity, equity and inclusion
access to  
healthcare, education, 
career opportunities, etc.
13  12  13  12  
Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   Governance
 Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   GovernanceGoal setting: 
Representation matters
Representation matters because when the decision makers at the 
table are truly diverse, the choices we pursue and the decisions 
and policies we make are better, bolder and more creative. And yet, 
there are gaps in access and opportunity, particularly for women 
and ethnically diverse populations, across the U.S. That is why we 
have established goals for increasing representation of traditionally 
underrepresented people at the manager level and above. 
Specifically, by 2030, our goals are that workforce representation changes in the following ways:
We plan to share our progress toward achieving these representation 
goals each year in our annual Corporate Citizenship Report.Visit newsroom.cardinalhealth.com for more details about our expanding differentiated development 
programs that provide professional growth opportunities and increase access for underrepresented talent.In the U.S., increased representation 
of African American and Black  
employees at the manager level 
and above from 5% to +6+6%%
11%In the U.S., increased representation 
of Asian, Latinx, Indigenous 
and all other ethnically diverse 
groups at the manager level and 
above from 17% to+6+6%%
23%Accountability at every level
We have invested in the work of culture change, leadership 
capability, policy infrastructure and content development to 
support an inclusive workplace. Our leaders are working to 
create environments that allow for psychological safety and 
growth mindsets among all employees.
We have a listening strategy to help ensure we hear from a 
broad cross-section of employees through employee surveys, 
focus groups and informal listening sessions.
In establishing our 2030 Representation Goals, the 
Human Resources & Compensation Committee of 
the Cardinal Health Board of Directors also approved 
expanding DE&I metrics in the company's FY22 annual 
incentive plan, and performance share units under 
our long-term incentive plan at the SVP level and 
above, with a portion of payouts aligned to progress 
toward our 2030 Representation Goals over each 
program's relevant performance periods. These 
incentives extend well beyond the executive team, 
reinforcing the cultural commitment within the 
company's leadership team.
Globally, increased representation 
of women at the manager level and 
above from 40% to +8+8%%
48%
15  14  15  14  
Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   Governance
 Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   Governance
  There is still much work to do
 by Mike Kaufmann, CEO
  The power of advocacy
 by Steve Mason, CEO of our  
Medical Segment  Reckoning, reflection and repair  
this Juneteenth
 by Victor Crawford, CEO of our 
Pharmaceutical Segment
  This Women’s History Month,  
A call for equality
 by Ola Snow, Chief Human  
Resources Officer  National Minority Health Month: 
Addressing vaccine hesitancy
 by Victor Crawford, CEO of our 
Pharmaceutical Segment
  In support of the Equality Act
 by Steve Mason, CEO of our  
Medical SegmentTwo public health crises — the 
COVID-19 pandemic and systemic 
racism in the U.S. — merged over 
the last 18 months to expose and 
exacerbate inequities across the 
country; we were impelled to 
speak out.Speaking out against racism 
and social injusticeWe know that changes won’t be easy or happen quickly. We are committed to the hard work 
and long journey required to end systemic racism and inequities. And we continue to speak out. 
Visit newsroom.cardinalhealth.com to read these recent examples:
George Floyd’s death should never 
have happened. Inhumanity against 
one is inhumanity against all. This has 
to stop. All of us have a responsibility to 
encourage unity and demand justice for 
George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and too 
many others whose lives have been cut 
short by racism throughout our country’s 
history. We must come together so that 
everyone enjoys the same privilege of 
living, working and raising their families  
in a community that is safe for all.“
”There is a straight line that runs 
between degradation and violence. 
While details of the recent shootings in 
Atlanta are still unfolding, it is the latest 
example of the disturbing increase 
in violence towards Asians. Seeing 
someone as less than human, due to 
their race, class, gender or any of the 
layers of identity that define each of 
us, is the first step towards exploitation 
and brutality. As a company, we stand 
against hate. We stand for perspectives, 
actions and policies that support the 
human dignity of all people.“
”This spring, CEO Mike Kaufmann spoke out publicly 
as violence against Asians and Asian Americans 
increased across the U.S.: After George Floyd’s murder in May 2020, we took a public 
stand with this statement:
We know that racism is our past, and it is our present. 
Discriminatory policies created centuries ago continue 
to produce unequal outcomes. Many benefit from the 
effects of systemic racism and the advantages it gives 
to white people. If we remain silent and do nothing, 
racism will be our future. We have the responsibility 
to do things differently, to ensure a just and equitable 
future for all.
17  16  17  16  
Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   Governance
 Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   Governance
16  Leadership 
developmentDriving innovation through DE&I
DE&I makes us better, more innovative and agile, 
and allows us to solve problems faster and  
more creatively. 
Many studies link DE&I to organizational 
performance. According to McKinsey & 
Company,1 organizations with gender diversity 
and ethnic diversity are 25% and 36% more 
likely to outperform less diverse organizations, 
respectively. Companies with more gender 
diversity — and policies about gender diversity 
— are likely to have lower levels of employee 
turnover, according to research published in Organizational Studies.2 And a study from the 
Boston Consulting Group3 shows that diversity 
in gender, country of origin, career path and 
industry background are all linked to innovation. 
The takeaway is simple: When talented people 
with diverse experiences and perspectives work 
together, they innovate more. A keen focus on 
diversity, equity and inclusion is essential to our 
evolution from a distributor into a tech-enabled 
healthcare solutions provider. We are building 
core strengths of innovation and data-driven 
insights, and we need DE&I to be a leading factor 
in everything we do.We are focused on attracting, developing and retaining diverse talent from entry-level to senior 
leadership positions. To build a diverse pipeline of tomorrow's leaders, we are expanding our 
existing differentiated development programs and creating new offerings to bring an equity lens 
to our development practices and help more effectively advance underrepresented talent.
Differentiated development programs provide professional growth opportunities as well as 
increased access and awareness for traditionally underrepresented populations and their 
leadership. We launched our first such program for women several years ago, and have continued 
to expand differentiated development offerings for men and women of color. 
We are intentional about diversity, equity and inclusion for all our differentiated development 
offerings, both in the mix of employees selected to participate and in curricula.
Cardinal Health is deeply committed to creating 
a balanced, inclusive and equitable culture, an 
approach that has fostered great employee 
engagement and innovation. For me personally, it 
has provided opportunities to engage leaders and 
take on leadership roles within our organization while 
receiving unwavering support from our leadership 
teams as we pursue the company’s core values.
— Jeremy Bolden 
Senior Consultant, Sales, Medical Segment, Texas“
”Increasing representation through increased access
19  18  19  18  
Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   Governance
 Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   GovernanceOur employees participate in a variety of other differentiated 
development programs, including: 
Inclusion is how we unleash the power  
of diversity. I have taken the responsibility to 
foster belonging and empowerment at work 
by hosting open, honest and sometimes tough 
conversations within my team. I have learned 
the importance of listening first, and being 
mindful and authentic to all perspectives. This 
approach has truly translated into my growth as 
an individual and a leader at Cardinal Health. 
— Romeyn Webb 
Director, Distribution Operational Excellence, California“
”
In FY21, 29 of our employees participated in McKinsey 
& Company's inaugural Black Leadership Academy. 
This program featured two tracks to further develop 
high-performing, promising Black 
and African American talent: one for 
executives one or two levels below 
the C-suite, and one for early- to mid-
career leaders. Black Leadership Academy
Read more about our 
differentiated leadership 
development programs »
KPMG Women's Leadership Summit  
for executive women
Signature Leaders Select and 
Premier programs for high-potential 
female executives 
MDX , a mid-level leader development 
experience for those on executive 
succession plans (women and men of various 
races are among the participants)
EDX , an executive development 
experience for those on senior executive 
succession plans (participants are women and 
men of various races)Aspiring Leaders program, designed 
for underrepresented supply chain 
leaders not yet at the manager level. The 
program, currently in a pilot phase, focuses 
on helping participants grow their leadership 
skills. We have developed the program in 
partnership with Franklin Covey to address 
what McKinsey & Company calls the "broken 
rung" in the talent pipeline.
Cardinal Health will also focus on 
developing diverse junior talent through 
its existing summer internship program and 
EMERGE, a three-year rotational development 
program for young professionals launching 
their careers.
21  20  21  20  
Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   Governance
 Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   GovernanceAt Cardinal Health, employees from underrepresented populations 
share their experiences with their colleagues and with our leaders 
through a variety of internal organizations, including:Spotlight
Multi-Cultural Community
Like all of our employee resource groups (ERGs), our Multi-Cultural 
Community (MCC) is ingrained in the culture of Cardinal Health and 
welcomes employees around the globe to get involved. The MCC’s 
mission is to bring more people across the globe into our DE&I efforts.Listening to and learning 
from our employees
Diversity, Equity and 
Inclusion Council
This diverse group of business leaders 
is committed to putting DE&I at the 
center of everything we do.African American  
and Black Racial 
Equity Cabinet
As truth tellers, this Cabinet aspires 
to bring our scale, influence and 
resources to openly identify and 
address issues of Black and African 
American inequity due to unconscious 
bias, both inside and outside of  
our organization.New Perspectives
This grassroots group is committed 
to learning together and sharing 
different points of view about a wide 
range of social issues like inequality, 
systemic racism, unconscious bias, 
access gaps and social identity. New 
Perspectives hosts group discussions 
every other week, with as many as 
400 employees participating.
Read more about the 
Racial Equity Cabinet »
Read more about the  
Cardinal Health ERGs 
and MCC »Learn more about  
the Steering Council »
— Suzanne Foster 
President, Cardinal Health at-Home Solutions  
and Executive Sponsor of the Multi-Cultural Community
Fostering 
inclusion  
Our seven employee resource groups (ERGs) and our Multi-Cultural Community 
(MCC) help create community for underrepresented populations, their allies and 
advocates — all of whom are committed to helping recruit, develop, engage 
and retain talented individuals who are part of the same constituencies.
The global Multi-Cultural Community was created 
with the vision of a world made up of communities 
that welcome everyone to come as they are. Every 
Cardinal Health employee is a member of the MCC. 
The mission of this group is to unite all the existing 
MCCs around the globe to share many different 
perspectives — and grow from them. ”“
The results of our 2021 Voice of the Employee (VOE) Survey showed 
that our strong record of employee engagement continues to improve: 
Sustainable engagement — meaning how engaged, energized and 
empowered employees feel in their work — is at 87% across the enterprise. 23  22  23  22  
Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   Governance
 Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   GovernancePrioritizing pay equity 
EEO-1 survey data
We define pay equity as equal pay for women, men and all ethnicities who are performing 
substantially similar work. Some of the things we consider include job-related skills, tenure, 
experience and education level, performance rating and geography. 
For every dollar male employees 
are paid, female employees at 
Cardinal Health are paidFor every dollar non-minority  
employees are paid,  
minority employees at 
Cardinal Health are paidAsianBlack or 
African 
AmericanHispanic  
or LatinoAmerican 
Indian or 
Alaska NativeNative 
Hawaiian or 
other Pacific 
IslanderWhiteTwo or  
more races
F M F M F M F M F M F M F M Total
Executive/Senior Level 
Officials and Managers1 2 0 3 0 1 0 0 0 0 17 40 1 0 65
First/Mid-Level Officials 
and Managers101 176 154 206 137 230 3 5 3 6 1,222 1,721 24 39 4,027
Professionals 340 432 339 191 269 215 12 13 5 7 2,380 2,243 72 58 6,576
Technicians 46 79 145 144 177 149 9 8 12 7 519 493 19 18 1,825
Sales Workers 24 21 35 49 41 42 2 3 3 3 720 761 7 19 1,730
Administrative  
Support Workers47 15 620 99 189 42 11 2 3 0 1,045 196 49 9 23,27
Craft Workers 0 6 6 30 8 47 0 1 0 1 10 194 0 2 305
Operatives 441 725 1,095 1,815 1,197 1,561 28 42 53 64 1,135 2,651 55 118 10,980
Laborers and Helpers 67 22 213 50 229 67 2 0 1 0 173 84 7 1 916
Service Workers 0 1 1 16 0 8 0 0 0 1 3 66 0 0 96
Total 1,067 1,479 2,608 2,603 2,247 2,362 67 74 80 89 7,224 8,449 234 264 28,847We include the data below in the EEO-1 report that we file with the U.S. Equal 
Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) based on calendar year filing 
requirements. The data reflect U.S. representation of racial/ethnic groups 
in various job categories at Cardinal Health as of December 31, 2020. (The 
EEOC mandates the use of specific job categories that are different from our 
workforce categories.) 
(F) Female, (M) Male
The business case for building diverse teams is 
undeniable, but building them requires intentionality. 
Cardinal Health is committed to creating a diverse, 
equitable and inclusive culture, which continues to 
unleash a greater impact on innovation, business results 
and employee engagement. I am grateful to be part of 
an organization that is so intentional about DE&I.
— Stephanie Revish 
Vice President, Corporate Finance, Ohio“
”
Diversity in leadership
Our Board and senior leadership 
are deeply committed to better 
reflecting the diversity of the 
communities where we live and 
work — and we are proud of the 
diversity they represent. Board of Directors Executive team
33% 39%
17% 12%female female
ethnically  
diverseethnically  
diverse
As of the end of FY21. Our executive team includes our CEO’s direct reports and our business presidents.Read more about 
pay equity »
9999¢¢ $$11..0000
(on average in the U.S.)
25  24  25  24  
Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   Governance
 Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   Governance21
Maintaining a diverse supplier base promotes an inclusive approach to 
procurement and provides direct support to the communities where these 
diverse businesses reside. At Cardinal Health, we define diverse suppliers as small 
businesses (some of which are minority- or women-owned), as well as those that 
are at least 51% owned, operated and controlled by an individual or team that is 
part of an underrepresented group, including ethnic minorities, women, veterans, 
LGBTQ+ individuals and those with disabilities.
Our supplier diversity program helps diverse suppliers learn how to navigate 
larger organizations, how to package their ideas and how to harness their nimble, 
innovative thinking so that they’re better able to compete. Our program also helps 
generate economic opportunities for marginalized communities. Supplier  
diversity
4,200  
diverse 
suppliersRead more about 
our supplier 
diversity program »
Cardinal Health operates in more than 35 countries; I see colleagues 
around the globe working to embrace diversity in everything they 
do each day. For example, even though I’m based in Asia, my U.S. 
and European colleagues always consider time zone differences 
when setting up meetings. This sort of inclusiveness is one of the 
key reasons I recently agreed to and accepted a new international 
business role. I knew it wouldn’t be a problem to collaborate 
with teams in other countries. That’s what makes this 
company so special. I know I am appreciated for who I am 
here. This is a place where I truly can be myself at work.
— Raymond Francis 
International Communications Business Partner, Singapore“
”
20% by 2020 Women on Boards
Devray Kirkland: Top 50 Chief 
Diversity Officers by the 
National Diversity Council
50 Best Companies for Latinas to Work for 
in the U.S., Latina Style 50 Report2020 Corporate Citizenship Award
DiversityInc 2020  
Noteworthy Company
2021 Best Companies for Multi-Cultural Women from 
Seramount (formerly Working Mother Media)2021 Best Places to Work  
for LGBTQ Equality
2020 Inclusion Index Company, 
Diversity Best Practices
Awards and recognition
5.6 billion  
total FY21 spend  
with diverse suppliers
27  26  27  26  
Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   Governance
 Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   GovernanceIn 2019 we launched Mind Matters, a global mental 
health initiative to provide mental health resources 
to employees and their families, foster an open and 
supportive mental health culture and eliminate stigma 
around mental health issues throughout the company.
Since the launch of Mind Matters, and throughout the 
pandemic, we have learned so much about the mental 
health needs of our employees. 
We know the past 18 months have been difficult for 
our employees, whether they’ve continued to work 
on the front lines, ensuring that our customers get the 
products they need to care for patients, or they work from 
home, where work-life balance is especially challenging 
to achieve. Since the onset of the pandemic, many 
employees have reported working longer hours. Many 
are still juggling their work with additional responsibilities 
of childcare, home schooling and/or eldercare, and many 
feel isolated and long for social interaction. Mental health issues can affect employees in many 
different ways, from reducing their ability to complete 
tasks and their cognitive performance to causing 
communication problems with peers and managers. 
We also know that mental health issues can affect women 
and ethnically diverse people differently. For example, 
according to the World Health Organization, women 
are twice as likely to struggle with depression as men.4 
People from diverse backgrounds can face unconscious 
bias and other stressors that affect their mental health; 
they may also lack access to mental healthcare services. 
Stigma is also a significant barrier to mental healthcare 
among certain racial and ethnic communities. 
Throughout the pandemic, we’ve focused on expanding 
support for all employees, including customized 
resources for diverse audiences. Mind Matters: Focusing 
on mental health
Creating balanceReducing stigmaIncreasing trainingHere's what we're doing to help:
Stigma is often the reason 
people avoid or delay seeking 
mental health treatment, even 
though treatment can alleviate many 
symptoms. Stigma directly affects 
individuals with mental illness, but 
it also hurts the friends and family 
members who help support them. 
Through our Mind Matters initiative, 
we have hosted multiple virtual 
programs that provide employees 
with access to mental health 
professionals. We've also offered 
programming through our employee 
resource groups (ERGs), designed 
with specific educational messages 
for diverse audiences.Read more about how we 
prioritize mental health »We encourage employees to focus 
on the job to be done, rather than 
on the time of day it's completed, 
to create some balance and 
mitigate burnout. Working parents, 
for example, may need time during 
the traditional workday to help 
students with virtual learning. We 
instituted Midweek Moment, a 
weekly window without internal 
meetings that employees can use 
however they want. Leaders are 
encouraged to limit how much 
they engage with their teams via 
email late in the evenings and 
during weekends.We’re training our leaders in 
mental health awareness and 
response so they have the skills 
to address mental health issues 
in the workplace. To date, almost 
900 Cardinal Health managers 
have completed our Mental Health 
Responsiveness Training. In FY21, 
we began offering a program to 
employees in the U.S. called Mental 
Health First Aid (MHFA). The MHFA 
certification helps people identify 
and support anyone who might 
be experiencing an issue (e.g., 
a panic attack, traumatic event 
or withdrawal from substance 
misuse), and helps connect them to 
care. Almost 500 employees have 
completed the MHFA certification. 
They continue training after 
certification and lead small group 
conversations designed to help 
reduce stigma.
Early in the pandemic, we increased the 
number of one-on-one counseling sessions 
that employees and their household 
members could access through our global 
Employee Assistance Program (EAP). Nearly 
11% took advantage of these counseling 
sessions, an increase of 2.5% over the 
previous year; those accessing more than 
one counseling session more than doubled 
in 2021 over the previous year.We also provided free access to an app 
called Headspace to our employees 
worldwide. This app is designed to guide 
individual meditation and relaxation. 
Headspace offered virtual educational 
sessions for employees to help them 
understand the benefit of meditation  
and drive engagement. As a result,  
requests from employees for  
Headspace licenses increased by 150%.
29  28  29  28  
Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   Governance
 Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   Governance
29  21Creating 
value for our 
customers  
and partners
Transforming through growth, 
innovation and technology 
31  30  30  
 31  
Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   Governance
 Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   Governance
30  We celebrated our 50th year in business in January 2021, 
less than 10 months after the World Health Organization 
(WHO) formally declared the COVID-19 pandemic. As a 
company, we were able to pivot quickly at the start of 
the pandemic and learn new ways of doing business to 
continue serving customers and communities around 
the world. 
Over the past 50 years, the only constants have been 
change and a deep commitment to our customers 
and partners. Today, as we continue to evolve from a 
distributor to a technology-enabled healthcare solutions 
provider, we’re bringing life-changing healthcare 
innovations to market and optimizing care delivery by 
harnessing the power of technology, data and insights to 
improve the patient experience.We have deep expertise — and we know how to 
respond to disruptions with innovation. We are 
advancing healthcare and removing barriers to deliver 
solutions that will allow our customers and partners 
to provide the best possible care for the patients who 
depend on them. 
The pandemic pushed us further in our evolution, as 
you’ll read on these pages. We are enabling technology 
solutions at a faster pace than ever before. And as we 
look ahead, focused on becoming healthcare’s most 
trusted partner, we’ll continue to prioritize improved 
outcomes for our customers. We’re agile, determined and 
continually innovating.50 years  
of expertiseReevaluating the  
supply chain
In the early days of the pandemic, the demand for gowns, masks and other personal protective 
equipment (PPE) that helps protect healthcare providers and their patients was two to 12 times that 
of what was available. Once products arrived in the U.S., we delivered them to customers swiftly and 
efficiently; the challenge was securing reliable and quality products through a disrupted global supply 
chain facing a rapid, unprecedented increase in demand. 
To meet the demand, we reevaluated our entire supply chain. We changed sourcing practices to limit 
geographic concentration of products coming from a single country. We expanded self-manufacturing 
capabilities to increase production capacity of isolation gowns, surgical and procedural masks and face 
shields — all in North America. These efforts are expanding surgical and procedural mask capacity by  
150 million masks annually and increasing safety needle capacity by 15 million units. Throughout the 
pandemic and beyond, patient safety and product quality are at the forefront of every decision we make 
as we maintain trusted sources of supply. 
Delivering life-saving blood donations 
amid severe shortages
Blood Centers of America (BCA) recognized Cardinal Health™ 
OptiFreight® Logistics with one of its new Critical Infusion 
Awards for helping deliver record amounts of critical blood 
supplies and convalescent plasma to hospitals. 
Throughout the pandemic, OptiFreight® Logistics helped BCA centralize shipping efforts, 
provide same-day delivery, optimize visibility to shipments using real-time analytics, get 
deliveries quickly to point of care and, ultimately, save on shipping costs. 
Visit newsroom.cardinalhealth.com to learn more.
We began a partnership with FourKites, the leader in supply 
chain visibility, to give our healthcare customers real-time 
information about where their products are in the supply chain. 
The technology behind this visibility is allowing us to revolutionize 
the network and to ensure that all parts of the supply chain are 
working seamlessly. We continue to innovate as the supply chain 
and technology evolve.
Read more about our 
partnership with FourKites »Read more about our initial pandemic response 
in our FY20 Corporate Citizenship Report »
Read more about 
how we’re enhancing 
the entire supply 
chain by continually 
focusing on supply 
resiliency, business 
continuity and 
advanced planning 
and visibility »
Read more about 
TotalVue™ Analytics »We launched Cardinal Health™ TotalVue™ Analytics, a logistics management 
tool for healthcare supply chain leaders that provides health systems 
with shipping trends so they can identify opportunities to reduce 
freight costs, including inbound shipments from suppliers or 
outbound shipments from sites of care. These actionable data 
help supply chain leaders improve the predictability and 
efficiency of their supply chains.
33  32  33  32  
Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   Governance
 Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   GovernanceAs a distributor of pharmaceutical products and a global manufacturer and distributor of medical 
products and supplies, we remain focused on getting critical medicines and supplies into the 
hands of our customers so they can effectively care for their patients. We've increased inventory of 
certain products to more quickly meet spikes in demand. 
In April 2021, we were awarded a $58 million contract to store and distribute 80,000 pallets of PPE 
to support the U.S. Strategic National Stockpile (SNS), the repository of critical medical supplies 
used to supplement state and local supplies in public health emergencies. We’re also investing  
$50 million in medical inventory management throughout the U.S., adding nearly 1.5 million 
square feet to our regional replenishment centers. These centers store products that our nearby 
distribution centers can quickly access to restock their own inventory, then ship to our customers. Upgrading  
inventory practices
Developing and investing in 
innovative technology solutions 
We collaborated with eMed, a digital health company 
democratizing healthcare through digital point-of-care 
solutions, to distribute at-home COVID-19 rapid tests 
to thousands of pharmacies nationwide. eMed offers 
a unique digital health platform to virtually guide 
individuals through the testing process. The tests require 
no additional equipment; they are authenticated and 
deliver results within minutes. The collaboration enables 
pharmacies to offer convenient at-home tests to their 
patients and help protect against the further spread of 
COVID-19 in their communities.Through work with HIMSS Analytics™, our WaveMark™ 
Supply Management & Workflow Solutions became 
a Certified Organization of the Clinically Integrated 
Supply Outcomes Model (CISOM), to help health systems 
optimize and benchmark progress as they innovate 
their clinical and operational supply chains. WaveMark™ 
supports an optimized supply chain strategy with 
service and technology offerings, helping to ensure 
accurate visibility to “at risk” product inventory and to 
help prevent “never events, ” including expired or recalled 
product used on a patient. Ensuring patient safety 
and product quality 
Enabling hospital care at homeEnabling hospital care at home
Medically Home is a technology company that 
supports and enables the delivery of safe, high-quality 
acute care in the home. In collaboration with Medically 
Home, health systems, payers and providers, we’re 
bringing hospital-level care into the home — complete 
with labs, nurses, meals, medications and equipment.
Our innovations are enabling meaningful, cost-effective and outcomes-driven 
connections in healthcare. Here are four notable examples: 
MyScheduling, a digital solution specific to COVID-19 
that allows U.S.-based independent pharmacists to 
schedule vaccines (and lets patients schedule their own 
appointments), creates waiting lists for patients not yet 
eligible for the vaccines, gathers patient information and 
generates reports on daily appointments. MyScheduling 
has scheduled 283,000 COVID-19 vaccination 
appointments (with only a 2% no-show rate); more than 
3,500 pharmacies have connected via the MyScheduling 
tool to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
(CDC) Datawarehouse for COVID-19 vaccine reporting. The 
MyScheduling tool is available through our Outcomes™ 
Connect platform, which supports 23 million patients at 
more than 60,000 pharmacy locations nationwide.1 2 3 4Cardinal Health™ Navista™ Tech Solutions (TS) 
launched to help oncology practices improve 
patient care, lower costs and drive success in 
value-based care. Through this comprehensive 
suite of technology solutions, Navista™ TS helps 
oncology practices understand the biggest cost 
and value drivers, identify treatments that offer 
the highest-quality care at the lowest cost and 
select the right care plan at the onset of each 
patient’s treatment. It also helps to automate 
manual processes and reduce  
administrative burdens.Continually evolving 
our businessTo discover more about how we’re transforming our business through growth, innovation and technology to best 
serve our customers and their patients now and into the future, please visit newsroom.cardinalhealth.comLearn more about how we're making healthcare 
more accessible, including through virtual care »Our manufacturing and sourcing strategy, and our responsible sourcing, keep safety and quality at the forefront 
of everything we do and every decision we make. Read more in our FY20 Corporate Citizenship Report. 
35  34  35  34  
Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   Governance
 Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   GovernanceStrengthening  
our communities
Cardinal Health focuses on creating 
positive, lasting change
21
37  36  36  37  
Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   Governance
 Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   Governance
36  Our prioritiesOur priorities
Supporting employee engagementSupporting employee engagement
The Cardinal Health Foundation works to help 
build healthier, more equitable communities 
where all people have the opportunity to live 
healthy lives and share their perspectives and 
experiences — communities where diversity, 
equity and inclusion thrive. 
Each year, we invest $5.5 million to improve health outcomes. On 
these pages, you’ll see some of the highlights of this work in FY21.The Cardinal Health 
Foundation
Read more about the 
Foundation's work »
Improving  
physical healthExpanding mental 
health servicesIncreasing access  
to healthy foodsIncreasing access 
to stable housing
Giving back to important causes
In addition to their time and talent, employees 
donate more than $2 million each year to 
nonprofit organizations —  funds that are 
matched by the Foundation.Fighting prescription drug misuse
Many of our employees teach others about 
medication safety through the resources of 
Generation Rx (learn more on page 41).Improving  
educational outcomesCOVID-19 response
Addressing unprecedented need 
When the COVID-19 pandemic took hold last year, we acted with urgency, funding  
our nonprofit partners that work to address some of the most pressing needs of at-risk 
children and families in our hometown of Columbus, Ohio, and around the world.   
Below is a list of the organizations we support:
Central Ohio relief:
• United Way of Central Ohio,  
to support its COVID-19  
emergency response
• Mid-Ohio Food Collective, to help feed 
hungry children and their families in 
Central Ohio throughout school closures• l Know I Can, to support high school 
graduation for seniors in Columbus  
City Schools 
• Mid-Ohio Regional Planning 
Commission, to support a broadband 
access pilot program across Central Ohio
Global relief: 
• United Way Worldwide, to support 
basic needs of children and families and 
children’s education across six countries• Red Cross Society of China, 
for emergency relief
Josh 
Perry pic
Read more about our vaccine 
efforts to support our 
customers and employees »
When vaccines became available in Ohio in 
early 2021, the Foundation partnered with 
Ohio State University (OSU) Athletics to address 
vaccine hesitancy in disadvantaged communities 
by sponsoring a statewide public service 
announcement (complemented by other 
promotional materials) featuring former OSU 
linebacker Joshua Perry.
39  38  39  38  
Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   Governance
 Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   GovernanceThe Cardinal Health Foundation  
Zero Suicide Collaborative
Suicide is a growing public health concern. According to the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, in 2019, suicide 
was the second leading cause of death for people ages 10-34, 
the fourth leading cause among people ages 35-44, and the 
fifth leading cause among people ages 45-54.7
Suicide deaths for individuals under the care of health 
and behavioral health systems are preventable. That’s why 
the Cardinal Health Foundation is partnering with the 
Zero Suicide Institute, whose framework is based on the 
realization that those at risk of suicide often fall through the 
cracks in a fast-paced and sometimes fragmented healthcare 
system. A systematic approach to quality improvement in 
these systems is both available and necessary to save lives. 
With the Zero Suicide Institute, we have created a national 
Zero Suicide Collaborative of 17 adult and children’s 
hospitals. Each of the participating hospitals received a  
two-year grant and are receiving in-depth training and 
expert consultation from the Zero Suicide Institute 
throughout the term of the grant. 
The collaborative includes a partnership with the State of 
Ohio and the Ohio Children’s Hospital Association (OCHA),focused on six children’s hospitals that are implementing 
systemwide and community-based suicide prevention 
efforts. And through an initiative of Ohio Governor Mike 
DeWine, the Ohio Department of Mental Health and 
Addiction Services is making an investment in youth  
suicide prevention. We are proud that the Cardinal Health  
Foundation is amplifying this work to create a 
comprehensive suicide prevention model from  
hospitals to home.  
Each of the Zero Suicide Collaborative grantees is committed 
to patient safety and the safety and support of clinical 
staff, as well as supporting a community focus on 
suicide prevention. Through the collaborative, 
grantees will track and share learnings and 
best practices with each other, with 
the Zero Suicide Institute and with 
Cardinal Health to inform and 
improve future suicide  
prevention work.Optimal Prescribing for  
Pain Management (OPPM) Collaborative 
In 2019, the Foundation awarded nearly $1 million in grants 
through the OPPM Collaborative to combat the opioid epidemic 
across five states. The initiative engaged state pharmacy associations 
and schools of pharmacy in partnerships that enabled pharmacists to 
work closely with other healthcare providers and patients to improve pain 
management and pain medication prescribing.Advancing mental well-being
About one in five adults in the U.S. have mental health issues,5 and one in 10 have a 
drug use disorder at some time in their lives,6 according to the National Institutes of 
Health. Though many of these issues can be managed with treatment and support, 
many people struggle to get help. Here are some of the ways the Foundation is 
working to combat mental health and substance use issues.
The five grantees completed their grant-funded work in FY21:
Maryland Pharmacists 
Association Foundation
Maryland Pharmacists 
AssociationMissouri Pharmacy 
Foundation
Missouri Pharmacists 
AssociationNorth Carolina 
Pharmaceutical Association 
Endowment Fund 
North Carolina 
Association of 
Pharmacists Ohio Northern University 
Raabe College of 
Pharmacy 
Ohio Pharmacists 
AssociationWisconsin Pharmacy 
Foundation
Pharmacy Society of 
Wisconsin
The grantees worked to bridge the communication gap between 
prescribers, pharmacists and patients in their states, and spread tools 
and resources to promote optimal prescribing for pain management 
patients. Throughout the term of the grant, they participated in a 
learning collaborative led by the Alliance for Integrated Medication 
Management (AIMM) designed to drive progress and to facilitate 
discussions, identify barriers and brainstorm solutions. In addition to AIMM, the Foundation also partnered with the 
National Alliance of State Pharmacy Associations (NASPA) and the 
American Association of Colleges of Pharmacy (AACP) to coordinate 
the program.
The Foundation supports several solutions designed to prevent prescription drug 
misuse and fight the opioid epidemic. A key program is Generation Rx, which was 
founded at The Ohio State University College of Pharmacy and has been powered 
through a partnership with the Foundation since 2009. Generation Rx is an 
evidence-informed prevention education and awareness program designed  
to educate people of all ages about safe medication practices. 
Read more at cardinalhealth.com/GenerationRx
40  40  41  
Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   Governance
 Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   GovernanceFighting food insecurity  
with food pharmacies 
To begin addressing SDoH, the Foundation is investing in grant-
funded work to combat food insecurity, which is the lack of consistent 
access to enough nutritious food to support an active, healthy 
life. Food insecurity is a complex social issue that greatly impacts 
population health. By supporting organizations that help to increase 
access to healthy foods, we can improve health outcomes as well as 
the overall health of the communities in which we work and live.
Our food pharmacy work was established with a pilot cohort of five 
grantees across the country in 2020, all working together to address 
food insecurity. Food pharmacies — partnerships between food 
banks and healthcare organizations — help to support and sustain 
healthier eating habits of low-income patients. Through clinic-based 
food pharmacies, patients can fill prescriptions for free, nutritious 
foods written by their healthcare providers. They also receive support 
to foster and sustain healthy eating habits with cooking instructions, 
recipe sharing and nutrition coaching. In FY21, the Foundation expanded its food pharmacy initiative with 
national partner Feeding America* and announced its Food Rx for 
Health program, awarding new grants to four food banks partnering 
with healthcare organizations to improve health outcomes for adults 
with diabetes. The following partnerships began their grant-funded 
work in July 2021:
• Mid-South Food Bank in Memphis, Tennessee   
partnering with Methodist Le Bonheur Healthcare,  
Methodist University Hospital
• Mountaineer Food Bank of Gassaway, West Virginia   
partnering with the Wheeling Health Right Medical Center  
in Wheeling, West Virginia
• Feeding Tampa Bay in Riverview, Florida  
partnering with Tampa Family Health Center,  
a Federally Qualified Health Center (FQHC)
• Northern Illinois Food Bank in Geneva, Illinois  
partnering with Northwestern Medicine Lake Forest Hospital
* The Cardinal Health Foundation is a supporting partner of Feeding America.Above: Employees around the globe do their part to help fight hunger in their communities by hosting food drives, 
volunteering at food banks and working in community gardens.
Taking action on social 
determinants of health
Clinical care that is safe, effective, timely, efficient, equitable and people-centered 
is key to positive health outcomes. But healthcare providers and researchers 
recognize that social factors are even greater predictors of health and well-being 
than clinical health. In fact, social determinants of health (SDoH), including 
health-related behaviors, socioeconomic factors and environmental factors, 
account for 80% to 90% of health outcomes.8  To improve health and reduce 
longstanding disparities in health and healthcare, particularly for Black or  
African American people, we must address SDoH.
Advancing social justice and racial equity
The Cardinal Health Foundation and the company have prioritized donations 
to organizations working to help eliminate inequities in healthcare, education, 
jobs, housing, criminal justice and more.
The Foundation provides 100% matching gifts for employee donations to 
these nonprofit organizations:
• Black Youth Leadership Project
• Center for Constitutional  
Rights, Inc.
• Consortium for Graduate Study  
in Management
• Equal Justice Initiative
• NAACP Foundation• NAACP Legal Defense and 
Educational Fund, Inc.
• National Council of Negro 
Women, Inc.
• National Fair Housing Alliance
• National Urban League
• Workers Center for Racial JusticeCardinal Health provides 
financial support to a variety of 
organizations working to advance 
equity. In Central Ohio, these 
include: Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.  
Birthday Breakfast, Columbus 
Urban League, United Negro 
College Fund of Central Ohio and 
United Way of Central Ohio.
On the national level, we support 
National Urban League, National 
Council of Negro Women, Boris 
Lawrence Henson Foundation, 
Loveland Foundation and the 
Center for Healthcare Innovation.
43  42  42  43  
Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   Governance
 Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   GovernanceEmpowering employees
We support our employees in giving back to 
the causes they’re passionate about. Around the 
world, they raise millions of dollars for and share 
time and professional skills with thousands of 
nonprofit organizations.
A year of service
Our employees are passionate about giving back to the 
communities where we live and work. During our 2021 
year of service, we are inspired by the collective goal of 
giving 50,000 hours in volunteer service. 
On these pages, we share highlights of that commitment.
In January 2021, we celebrated our 50th anniversary with a 
virtual bell ringing at the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) 
and the kickoff of a year of service for Cardinal Health 
employees around the world. 50,00050,000
hourshours
Throughout our year of service, employees have hosted 
school supply drives, stuffed and donated backpacks, 
cleaned up community green spaces, donated to 
food pantries and more. 
45  44  44  45  
Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   Governance
 Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   GovernanceOur Foundation, company and employees have raised more than $3 million for cancer 
research since 2009. Hundreds of employees, friends and families participate each year 
by cycling, volunteering or setting their own challenges to fundraise against.
Pelotonia
— Victor Crawford  
CEO of our Pharmaceutical Segment
 As a healthcare leader, cancer survivor and 
advocate for advancing health equity, Crawford 
serves on the Pelotonia Board of Directors.— Ola Snow  
Chief Human Resources Officer
 A long-time champion of the AHA, Snow recently joined the AHA’s Go Red 
for Women National Leadership Council, an influential group of women 
who encourage other women to take charge of their heart health.
Above: Victor Crawford (right), with Pelotonia CEO Doug Ulman 
at a virtual Pelotonia kickoff event in MayI am proud to support Pelotonia’s 
mission of engaging, inspiring 
and challenging a community 
committed to changing the  
world by accelerating  
innovative cancer research. Through our collaboration with 
the American Heart Association, 
Cardinal Health is focusing on health 
equity, education, wellness, mental 
health and overall well-being for our 
employees and the community.“ “
” ”$3M+
   raised
Learn more about Pelotonia's 
impact on cancer research  
at pelotonia.orgLearn more about the American 
Heart Association at heart.orgAmerican Heart Association (AHA) Heart Walk
Since 2009, we’ve raised more than $2 million for heart research; 
hundreds of employees participate in walks across the country.$2M+
   raised
46  46  47  
Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   Governance
 Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   Governance21Operating 
sustainably
Creating a cleaner future
49  48  48  49  
Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   Governance
 Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   Governance
48  As a global company, we know that the long-term health of our 
communities, colleagues, customers and partners depends on a 
commitment to environmental sustainability. We all have a role to play in 
addressing climate change to ensure a healthier planet for generations to 
come; it’s essential that we do our part. 
Across our footprint, we look for ways to reduce 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, reduce landfill 
burden, conserve water and design products, 
services and solutions that help lessen our 
environmental impact. We continue to measure 
and manage our impact, constantly pursuing 
opportunities for improvement — and we are 
achieving real results in an effort to benefit our 
planet and the communities in which we operate.Following the completion of a climate scenario 
analysis in FY21, we are issuing for the first time a 
report using the recommendations of the Task Force 
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)  
as a guide.Building a more 
sustainable futureWe’re committed to reducing our impact on the environment 
and have set initial targets for reducing our Scope 1 and 2  
GHG emissions by 50% by FY30, against an FY19 baseline.
Our Scope 1 and 2 targets align with what the latest climate science deems necessary to 
meet the goals of the Paris Agreement: limiting global warming to well below 2°C above 
pre-industrial levels and pursuing efforts to limit warming to 1.5°C. Further, we are assessing 
our Scope 3 emissions and working toward validation of a comprehensive Scope 1, 2 and 3 
science-based target by the Science-Based Targets initiative (SBTi).
Read our FY21 Task Force 
on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures Report »Learn more about our 
GHG data and goals »
Pollution 
preventionEnergy 
optimization Design for 
environmentEmployee and 
public outreachGuiding principles Guiding principles Goal setting: Enterprise GHG emissions
5050%%
CO2 SF6 CH4 N2O NF3 HCF s PFC s
Direct GHG emissions  
from fuel burned 
in our own facilities 
or vehicles that we 
directly own or operateIndirect GHG emissions  
that come from the 
consumption of the 
electricity, heating and 
cooling we buyOther indirect GHG emissions, including those 
from our supply chain and transport-related 
activities not owned by Cardinal Health
These may include but are not limited to GHG emissions 
from companies that deliver us raw materials, external 
manufacturing facilities and last-mile partners who drive 
products to healthcare providers. Scope 3 emissions are more 
difficult to measure but, along with Scope 1 and 2,  
they represent an important impact on the environment.  Company vehicles Processed productsBusiness trips
Combustion of fossil fuels Waste management Outsourced activitiesRenting/leasing vehicles
Purchase of electricity, 
heat or steamScope 
2  
emissionsScope 
3  
emissionsScope 
1  
emissionsUnderstanding Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissionsUnderstanding Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions
51  50  51  50  
Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   Governance
 Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   GovernanceRenewable energy
In FY21, we were among Central Ohio’s three founding 
customers of renewable energy through Smart Columbus 
Energy, an initiative of Smart Columbus designed to 
support the decarbonization of large businesses in the 
region. The program pools customers’ energy demands 
and allows procurement energy from Ohio-based wind and 
solar projects. Smart Columbus estimates the initiative will 
supply the founding customers with about 25 megawatts of 
renewable energy each year — the equivalent of annually 
powering more than 4,000 U.S. homes. 
Beginning early in calendar year 2022, we will use renewable 
energy to fully power our global headquarters and our 
National Logistics Center in Central Ohio.Sustainable sourcing and 
human rights
We are committed to ensuring that our supply chain reflects 
our core values and our prioritization of both product 
quality and social responsibility. To do this, we have built 
ESG priorities into our procurement and manufacturing 
standards and procedures. This includes thorough evaluation 
of our suppliers and sites to protect against the use of forced 
labor and unsafe work environments, and improve waste 
and emission control programs.
Find our most recent vendor code of conduct, Global Human 
Rights and Labor Standards policy and Modern Slavery 
Statement on our website.
Recycling
Fundamental to our sustainability initiatives, our recycling 
programs address water, wood, cardboard, plastics, paper, 
metal, electronics, ink cartridges and other materials. 
For details on our FY21 outcomes,  
visit cardinalhealth.com/recycling-dataTotal Waste 
Management International Organization for Standardization  
(ISO) certification
In FY21, we achieved internationally recognized ISO 14001:2015 (environmental management system) and ISO 
45001:2018 (operational health and safety management system) integrated certifications in four manufacturing sites: 
Rayong, Thailand; Costa Rica; Juarez, Mexico; and Tullamore, Ireland. 
By FY23, we expect to achieve a multisite ISO 14001 and 45001 certification for a total of 21 manufacturing sites, 
including the four sites certified in FY21.
We promote responsible waste management across the company through an innovative program 
initiated in FY20 called Total Waste Management.  An enterprise-focused solution emphasizing 
elimination, reduction and/or reuse of waste and waste by-products, Total Waste Management simplifies 
and standardizes waste management throughout our operations and increases compliance solutions.
Once fully implemented across the enterprise, 
Total Waste Management is expected to:In FY21, our Total Waste Management program: 
Read more about 
renewable energy »Read more about our work to build 
a more sustainable future »39for a  
year)(enough  
to powerIn FY21, we deployed 
Total Waste Management 
throughout our 
Pharmaceutical 
Distribution, Specialty and 
Global Logistics businesses; 
in FY22, we anticipate 
expanding the program 
throughout our Nuclear & 
Precision Health Solutions.Increased use of waste-to-energy,  
generating 412,000 kWh  
Increased landfill avoidance 
by nearly 870 tons   
Achieve a waste management  
cost-savings year over year of at leasthomes
(the average weight of 
about four locomotives)
3%x4
As a global citizen, we’re working to reduce our 
environmental impact in the communities where 
we work and live. We’re reducing energy use, GHG 
emissions and waste, and prioritizing recycling efforts.
— Mike Bellantis  
Director, ESG and Sustainability“
”
53  52  53  52  
Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   Governance
 Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   Governance21Governance  
and ethics
Doing business the right way to 
create value for all our stakeholders
55  54  55  54  54  
Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   Governance
 Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   GovernanceComprehensive Board-  
and management-level  
ESG oversightBoard of Directors
Oversight of ESG-related risks and opportunities 
Read more about 
governance and ethics at 
Cardinal Health, our Board 
of Directors and Standards 
of Business Conduct »
Audit 
Committee
Monitors the 
company’s financial 
risks, cybersecurity, 
internal audit function 
and enterprise risk 
management processHuman Resources 
and Compensation 
Committee  
Human capital 
management, 
including diversity, 
equity and inclusion, 
talent recruitment and 
development, and 
workplace safety  
and cultureNominating and 
Governance 
Committee
Environmental 
sustainability, 
corporate citizenship 
activities, political 
contributions  
and lobbying, and  
corporate governanceAd Hoc 
Committee
Oversight of 
company’s response 
to the opioid 
epidemic and related 
litigation, regulatory 
and reputational risksRisk Oversight 
Committee
Monitors compliance 
risks associated with 
ethical, quality and 
legal/regulatory 
requirements (other 
than opioid matters)
ESG Steering Committee
This committee, chaired by the EVP , Chief Corporate Affairs Officer and 
composed of management team members, oversees our ESG strategies.
• Coordinating and prioritizing recommendations 
and requests about ESG issues
• Making recommendations to management on ESG 
projects and investments, with a focus on business 
benefit, cost-effectiveness and sustainabilityThe ESG Steering 
committee leads efforts 
to integrate corporate 
citizenship throughout 
our business by:• Assessing recommendations and requests 
for ESG information or initiatives from 
stakeholders and interest groups
• Developing consistent internal and external  
communications about ESG matters
57  56  57  56  
Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   Governance
 Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   GovernanceUnless otherwise indicated, data in this report are reflective of 
the fiscal year 2021 (July 1, 2020-June 30, 2021). The statistics 
and metrics included in this report may be based on estimates, 
assumptions or developing standards. The information in 
this report has not been externally assured or verified by an 
independent third party. 
Cardinal Health is headquartered in Dublin, Ohio. More than 
97% of our FY21 revenue was generated in the United States. 
Although the scope of this report primarily reflects the United 
States, the ethics and governance information referred to in this 
report and on our website reflects company-wide practice. In 
addition, data about the environment and employee health and 
safety (EHS) are based on our global operations. About our Corporate 
Citizenship ReportGRI and SASB standards
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: 
Core option and leverages the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) standards for 
Health Care Distributors. It takes into account topic-specific GRI standards that we identified 
through our ESG priority assessment. (Read more about our ESG priorities on our website.) The 
GRI standards represent global best practice for reporting publicly on a range of economic, 
environmental and social impacts. Sustainability reporting based on the standards provides 
information about an organization’s positive or negative contributions to sustainable development. 
SASB standards include 77 industry-specific standards that enable businesses around the world to 
identify, manage and communicate sustainability information to their investors. The inclusion of 
information in this report in response to the GRI and SASB standards should not be construed as an 
admission or conclusion that the information is material to our investors.
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Report
In FY21, we began assessing our climate management program and disclosures using the 
recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) as a guide.  
We completed a climate scenario analysis, which helped to identify potential climate-related risks 
and opportunities related to the physical impacts of climate change and the transition to a  
low-carbon economy. Following completion of this climate scenario analysis, Cardinal Health 
published for the first time a Task Force on Climate-related Disclosures Report.
Forward-looking statements 
This report contains forward-looking statements addressing expectations, prospects, estimates 
and other matters with respect to our environmental, social and governance (ESG) related actions 
and initiatives that are dependent on future events or developments. These statements may be 
identified by words such as “expect, ” “anticipate, ” “aim, ” “intend, ” “plan, ” “believe, ” “will, ” “should, ” 
“could, ” “would, ” “positioned, ” “project, ” “continue, ” “likely, ” “commit to” or other words or expressions 
of similar meaning, although not all forward-looking statements contain such terms. Actual results 
may differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied in forward-looking statements 
due to a variety of factors, including the risks and uncertainties described in our Form 10-K, Form 
10-Q and Form 8-K reports and exhibits to those reports. Forward-looking statements in this report 
may include, without limitation, statements regarding: (i) strategies for implementing ESG-related 
programs and related plans, targets and goals; (ii) commitments to climate-related programs and 
policies; (iii) expectations and priorities for ESG-related initiatives; and (iv) future ESG reporting. 
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date this report is first published. Except to the 
extent required by applicable law, we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-
looking statement. Forward-looking statements are aspirational and not guarantees or promises 
that goals, targets or projections will be met, and no assurance can be given that any commitment, 
expectation, initiative or plan in this report can or will be achieved or completed. Investors are 
cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements.Read our FY21 Task Force 
on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures Report »
For more information about 
our operations, please see 
the FY21 Cardinal Health 
Annual Report »
Read our FY21 
Proxy Statement » For more details, please 
refer to the FY21 Corporate 
Citizenship Report Indices »
59  58  59  58  
Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   Governance
 Cardinal Health FY21 Corporate Citizenship Report   |   Diversity, equity and inclusion   |    Our customers and partners   |   Our communities    |   Operating sustainably    |   GovernanceCorporate Offices  
Cardinal Health  
7000 Cardinal Place  
Dublin, Ohio 43017
614.757.5000  
cardinalhealth.com
 Learn more about this report at 
cardinalhealth.com/CCR
© 2021 Cardinal Health. All Rights Reserved. CARDINAL HEALTH, the Cardinal Health LOGO, ESSENTIAL TO CARE, OPTIFREIGHT, TOTALVUE, 
NAVISTA and WAVEMARK are trademarks of Cardinal Health and may be registered in the US and/or in other countries. All other marks are 
the property of their respective owners. Patent cardinalhealth.com/patents. Lit. No. 5PR21-1592559-01 (09/2021)References: 1. Dixon-Fyle S, et al. https://www.mckinsey.com/featured-insights/diversity-and-inclusion/diversity-wins-how-inclusion-matters. 
Published May 19, 2020. Accessed August 31, 2021. 2. Maurer CC, et al. Organization Studies. 2021;42(1):85-107. 3. Lorenzo R, et al. https://
www.bcg.com/publications/2017/people-organization-leadership-talent-innovation-through-diversity-mix-that-matters. Published April 26, 
2017. Accessed August 31, 2021. 4. World Health Organization. https://www.who.int/mental_health/media/en/242.pdf. Published May 6, 2002. 
Accessed September 12, 2021. 5. National Institute of Mental Health. https://www.nimh.nih.gov/health/statistics/mental-illness. Accessed 
September 16, 2021. 6. National Institute of Mental Health. https://www.nih.gov/news-events/news-releases/10-percent-us-adults-have-drug-
use-disorder-some-point-their-lives. Published November 18, 2015. Accessed September 16, 2021. 7. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
https://www.cdc.gov/injury/wisqars. Updated July 1, 2020. Accessed September 17, 2021. 8. Hood CM, et al. Am J Prev Med. 2016;50(2):129-135.