2017 Corporate Citizenship Report
to our  people
to our  community
to our  environment
to our  customers
2017 Corporate Citizenship Report   І   2From the CEO  ........................................................................................................ 3
Who we are  ............................................................................................................ 4
Our people  ............................................................................................... 5
Our values  ................................................................................................ 5
Employee diversity and inclusion  .......................................................... 6
Our well-being  ......................................................................................... 8
Our Standards of Business Conduct  .................................................... 10
Our employment practices  ................................................................... 11
How we do business  .................................................................................... 12
Product and supply chain integrity  .................................................... 14
Responsible sourcing  ........................................................................... 18
Ethics and governance  ......................................................................... 21
Taking care of where we live, work and play  ............................ 25
Community  ............................................................................................ 25
Environmental, health and safety  ...................................................... 29
About this report  ............................................................................................. 37
Cautionary note ................................................................................................ 37Contents
2017 Corporate Citizenship Report   І   3For all of us at Cardinal Health, debuting our first Corporate Citizenship Report provides a great  
opportunity to give real life examples of the values that we bring to the business of healthcare. Our 
employees around the world know that our customers count on them to provide safe, secure, efficient  
and effective solutions to complex healthcare challenges. This report tells the stories of those employees 
and their commitment to our mission and our values, which are inclusive of making our communities 
stronger and our world more sustainable. We know that by conducting our business in the right way,  
we create value for all of our stakeholders.
At Cardinal Health, we are deeply committed to creating a workplace where all our employees can  
bring 100 percent of their best selves to work every day. This authenticity starts at the top, and I am proud 
to say that our most senior executives sponsor the company’s seven Employee Resource Groups (ERGs). 
Every ERG is designed to foster collaboration, celebrate diversity and share best practices across the 
organization. For the past eight years, I have been proud to sponsor the Women’s Initiative Network, 
which has provided me with hundreds of opportunities to think differently about gender equality and 
partnerships — and to spread the word around the company and around the world. I have watched  
careers flourish and leaders develop. Each of our ERGs follow similar paths — sponsoring events and  
panels, creating tools and fostering dialogue that make our company more inclusive and allow us  
to attract and retain a more talented workforce. 
I am also proud to highlight how we take care of our communities — especially in times of crisis.  
In 2017, more than 600 of our employees based in Puerto Rico were especially hard hit. After  
dealing with life-threatening hurricanes from Florida to Houston and wildfires in California, our  
larger Cardinal Health team came together to provide basic supplies, including food, fuel, water  
and generators, to our colleagues in Puerto Rico. Meanwhile, our team on the island was working  
around the clock in devastating conditions to keep the healthcare infrastructure in place on  
the island. Our values came to life as we delivered essential medicines, supplies and materials  
to our colleagues, customers and their patients. That outpouring of support for friends, family  
and strangers in need moved me.
We are also in the midst of an ongoing public health crisis in the United States, and Cardinal Health 
employees care deeply about the devastation that opioid abuse has caused American families and 
communities. Ten years ago, we first created Generation Rx, a community-based program  
designed with The Ohio State University College of Pharmacy, to educate communities  
about the dangers of prescription medications. Since its inception, a million people  
have accessed our materials.  
Recently, we launched the Opioid Action Program, which is built on our work  
with Generation Rx. This program started in some of the hardest hit communities  
in Ohio, Kentucky, Tennessee and West Virginia. We describe these programs in  
detail on pages 26 and 27 of this report. We believe that community-based  
models are the best way to help and that we all must work together —  
regulators, manufacturers, physicians, pharmacists and insurers — to  
address and alleviate this crisis.
All of the work in this report is made possible by the caring and dedication  
of our employees. The stories you read here bring to life what it means to  
work at Cardinal Health. I am so proud of the tremendous service to our  
customers, our environment, our communities and one another that lies  
at the heart of every employee’s story. 
Sincerely,
Mike Kaufmann
Chief Executive Officer
2017 Corporate Citizenship Report   І   4Cardinal Health is a global, integrated healthcare services 
and products company providing customized solutions 
for hospitals, healthcare systems, pharmacies, ambulatory 
surgery centers, clinical laboratories and physician offices. 
We provide medical products and pharmaceuticals as 
well as cost-effective solutions that enhance supply 
chain efficiency. We connect patients, providers, payers, 
pharmacists and manufacturers for integrated care 
coordination and better patient management. 
With nearly 100 years of experience and expertise,  
we enhance supply chain efficiency and security, and 
improve care from hospital to home. We’re proud of our 
work to reduce the total cost of healthcare and improve 
the lives of patients around the globe. Our scale and 
experience lead to improved outcomes across the  
entire care continuum.
We understand that healthcare — what it is, where it 
happens, and how we pay for it — is at an inflection point. 
The demands of an aging population, the emerging needs 
of public health and the continued policy debates around 
cost, quality and access to care offer both substantial 
challenges and exciting opportunities.
Addressing these challenges and being thoughtful about 
these opportunities requires adaptive and meaningful 
action from all of us at Cardinal Health. We’re working as  
a team to help everyone in the healthcare continuum 
achieve better outcomes.
2017 Corporate Citizenship Report   І   5Our people
While a robust product and service portfolio is vital to the 
growth of our business, what sets us apart from the competition 
is the deep expertise and rich experience of our employees.
Our employees are humble partners striving each day to make 
healthcare more efficient, providers more effective and patients 
as healthy as possible. 
We believe in fostering an inclusive, optimistic environment 
where all of our employees feel they can connect, develop and 
thrive both personally and professionally. We encourage our 
team to take pride in their achievements and tenaciously fulfill 
our commitment to our customers.
We are more than a business. More than a partner. More than 
hard workers. We are Essential to car e™.Our values
Our values are the foundation of 
who we are and what we believe. 
They describe our culture and our 
company mindset:
We are tenacious  in fulfilling our 
commitments to customers.
We are accountable  for high  
performance and to each other.
We are inventive  and adaptable.
We bring a sense of optimism, 
enthusiasm  and competitive spirit  
to our work.
We are genuine, open, direct   
and respectful .
We can be trusted  to do the  
right thing.
We are inclusive  and work together 
with confidence and trust.
Headquarters  
in Dublin, Ohio
Nearly50,000
employees
worldwid e*
Employees in  
nearlycountries
worldwide60 In the top  
15 on the  
Fortune 500
$130annual 
revenue billion
* Reflects the acquisition of the Patient Care, Deep Vein Thrombosis and Nutritional 
Insufficiency businesses (Patient Recovery Business) from Medtronic, and the sale 
of our pharmaceutical and medical products business in China.2017 Corporate Citizenship Report   І   6
Employee diversity and inclusion
Inclusion at Cardinal Health is global and includes thoughts, communication 
style, interests, languages, values and beliefs, and a variety of dimensions.
We’re dedicated to recruiting and retaining a diverse workforce. We firmly 
believe that varied backgrounds and viewpoints make us a stronger and more 
innovative company. A diverse and inclusive work environment is crucial to our 
employees’ personal and professional success. We strive for a workplace that 
accurately reflects the communities and marketplaces in which we do business. 
In the U.S., Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) are a vital resource for both 
our business and our workforce. ERGs provide our employees a place where 
likeminded individuals who share interests, passions and a common bond or 
background, can come together to offer support and encouragement.Human Rights Campaign 
Best Places to Work for 
LGBT Equality2009-2017
Working Mother Magazine  
100 Best Companies2012-2016
Top 60 Company for  
Executive Women2012-20172017 Corporate Citizenship Report   І   7Employee Resource Groups spotlight —   
The Equality Network 
The goal of the Equality Network is to create an environment where  
Cardinal Health can attract, develop and retain the talents of LGBTQ  
(Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer/questioning) employees, while 
allowing them to bring 100 percent of themselves to work and improve their 
engagement by removing any barriers that might limit their success.
We were recognized for more than a decade of commitment to LGBTQ 
equality in the workplace by receiving 100 percent on the Human Rights 
Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index  (CEI), as well as being named  
a Best Places to Work for LGBTQ equality. 
Cardinal Health credits its 10-year perfect score on the CEI to its diversity  
and inclusion commitment including training courses focused on:
• Enhancing awareness and understanding of employee differences
• Aligning employee intent and effect in communications
• Challenging stereotypes in the workplace
• Seven employee resource groups including the Equality Network,  
which is comprised of LGBTQ employees and their allies
• Basic offerings such as spousal and partner benefits
• Philanthropic support of LGBTQ organizations
A small, but essential, way this culture is manifested at Cardinal Health 
is through our display of LGBTQ flags outside our building in June.
ERGs make Cardinal Health a better place by providing an excellent platform to understand the 
professional, personal and business goals of our diverse workforce, while utilizing their insights  
to facilitate a way to better serve our customers.
Cardinal Health ERGs
• African American Network
• Asian Pacific American Network
• Disability Advocates Network
• Equality Network
• Hispanic American Network
• Veterans and Military Advocates Network
• Women’s Initiative Network
In short, we consider diversity and inclusion essential to who we are and what we do.2017 Corporate Citizenship Report   І   8
Our well-being
Essential to care. It’s who we are in healthcare. We also believe it’s essential to care about each  
other and our families. 
Our goal is to ensure that our employees are happy and healthy. We understand that when our 
employees feel well, they do well — both at work and at home. 
One key to health and happiness is allowing our employees to balance their daily duties with  
their own well-being. We know that their top priorities are caring for themselves and their family.
We help employees focus on the total well-being of themselves and their family. This isn’t a  
one-size-fits-all-world. So we offer choices to help employees connect with their family, friends  
and community; develop their career; and thrive physically, mentally and financially. for wha tlive
matters2017 Corporate Citizenship Report   І   9Our well-being spotlight —   
EMERGE leadership development program
Cardinal Health offers an entry-level rotational program, EMERGE, designed to offer leadership 
development to participants in an environment where they can rotate through different 
departments and locations. Participants are provided an ideal opportunity to explore careers 
within their discipline while gaining valuable work experience needed to succeed in the future. 
The program is geared toward recent college graduates interested in the healthcare industry who 
are searching for a challenging, rewarding career in a fast-paced, consumer-oriented environment. 
The goal of the program is to provide participants the tools and experiences to accelerate their 
leadership path at Cardinal Health. While in the program, participants will:
• Develop and apply business skills
• Experience broad and diverse rotations
• Receive ongoing training and development
• Build cross-functional relationships through formal  
networking and mentoring
• Accelerate their professional development
• Enhance productivity through process improvement
• Develop a solid peer group
• Bring fresh and inventive ideas to our company
EMERGE is a very competitive and selective program, and we recruit for participants during  
the fall season for the program that begins in July of the subsequent year. We currently offer  
the EMERGE program in the following disciplines: analytics, customer support services, 
engineering, finance, information technology, marketing, sourcing and supply chain.
Programs to develop our employees
Each employee’s experience starts with an orientation that develops their understanding of us and 
our business. Then it leads to ongoing development opportunities so employees can thrive in their 
field, stay current on industry developments, and reach for new roles within the organization.
• Training and development to enhance and add new skills
• Mentoring within functional departments and across the organization
• Leadership development programs to help prepare for an expanded role
• Internal courses on topics such as diversity and inclusion
• Tuition reimbursement to encourage continued learning and growth
• Career planning to allow employees to see the skills they need to achieve their goals
• Regular goal setting and performance reviews
• Recognition awards to acknowledge outstanding achievement
Learn more:
• Standards of Business Conduct
2017 Corporate Citizenship Report   І   10
Our Standards of Business Conduct
Our Standards of Business Conduct are designed to foster a culture of integrity,  
drive compliance with legal and regulatory requirements and protect and promote 
our reputation. Employees receive our Standards of Business Conduct when joining 
the company and acknowledge it with regular training. These standards are:
• Act with integrity and in compliance with the law
• Ask questions, seek guidance and raise concerns
• Treat one another fairly and foster a safe, productive, diverse and  
environmentally responsible workplace
• Avoid conflicts of interest
• Compete with integrity in the marketplace
• Protect the integrity of the global supply chain
• Interact appropriately with government entities, officials and employees
• Maintain accurate books and records
• Protect information and assets
• Encourage individual volunteerism and corporate social responsibility2017 Corporate Citizenship Report   І   11Fair treatment and diversity
We provide equal opportunity to employees and applicants during the 
employment process. We seek to build a diverse, inclusive workplace 
that is representative of the communities in which we operate and that is 
free from discrimination. In addition, we’re dedicated to fostering a work 
environment where employees are respected and enjoy coming to work.
Harassment and bullying
Employees must treat each other and those with whom they interact with 
respect and professionalism. We will not tolerate harassment (including 
sexual harassment), intimidation or bullying of employees by co-workers, 
managers or any other individuals with whom employees come into 
contact while conducting business. We require not only compliance with 
applicable laws prohibiting harassment, discrimination or bullying, but 
also conduct which is consistent with the Standards of Business Conduct 
and Cardinal Health policies.
Substance abuse
The health and safety of our employees demands that each employee 
report to work free from the influence of any substance that could 
prevent him or her from conducting work activities safely and effectively. 
Substance abuse and the misuse of alcohol and drugs pose unacceptable 
risks for safe, secure and efficient operations and will not be tolerated.
Workplace violence prevention
We do not tolerate workplace violence and will investigate and take 
appropriate action against unacceptable behavior such as physical 
assaults, fights, threats and intimidation.
Employment of minors
We comply with applicable federal, state and local child labor laws.
Anti-slavery policies
Cardinal Health is firmly opposed to slavery and human trafficking, 
including the use of force, fraud or coercion to obtain some type of labor, 
and we will not tolerate these practices. Our policies require employees 
to report to us any incident of modern slavery or human trafficking. In 
addition, our Vendor Code of Conduct sets clear expectations in the area 
of modern slavery and human trafficking for our suppliers. 
Anti-retaliation
We will not retaliate against an employee who truthfully raises a concern 
about any actual or suspected misconduct or other risks to the business.
Our employment practices
Learn more:
• Equal employment opportunity/
nondiscrimination  
• Harassment and bullying prevention  
• Employment of minors
• Modern slavery statement2017 Corporate Citizenship Report   І   12Headquartered in Dublin, Ohio, Cardinal Health is a 
global, integrated healthcare services and products 
company serving hospitals, healthcare systems, 
pharmacies, ambulatory surgery centers, clinical 
laboratories and physician offices worldwide. 
Rx
We serve  more than  
2 million home patients  
with nearly 50,000  
medical products.We manufacture or source 
nearly 400,000 unique products 
to support patients across the 
continuum of care. We serve  more than  
24,000 pharmacies.We’re in nearly 85%  
of U.S. hospitals. 
We serve  more than 
10,000 specialty physician 
offices and clinics. 
2017 Corporate Citizenship Report   І   13
We believe we create value for all our stakeholders  
by conducting our business in the right way. From our 
unique vantage point, we work with provider customers, 
manufacturers and suppliers to improve healthcare and 
the lives of patients, and the health and well-being of 
our workplace, our employees and our communities 
around the globe.
We lead by example and learn from experience. We  
set high standards for our people at all levels and 
strive to consistently meet them. Our sound business 
principles and practices foster our strong, innovative 
and collaborative culture, which is committed to  
ethical behavior, accountability and transparency.
We provide medical products and pharmaceuticals as 
well as cost-effective solutions that enhance supply 
chain efficiency from hospital to home. Cardinal Health 
connects patients, providers, payers, pharmacists and 
manufacturers for integrated care coordination and 
better patient management. We manage our business 
and report our financial results in two segments: 
Pharmaceutical and Medical.
Pharmaceutical Segment
Our Pharmaceutical segment distributes branded and 
generic pharmaceutical, specialty pharmaceutical, and 
over-the-counter healthcare and consumer products in 
the United States. This segment also provides services to 
pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers 
to support the development, marketing and distribution 
of specialty pharmaceutical products; operates nuclear 
pharmacies and radiopharmaceutical manufacturing 
facilities; provides pharmacy management services to 
hospitals, as well as medication therapy management 
and patient outcomes services to hospitals, other 
healthcare providers and payers; and repackages generic 
pharmaceuticals and over-the-counter healthcare products. 
Medical Segment
Our Medical segment manufactures, sources and 
distributes Cardinal Health branded medical, surgical and 
laboratory products, which are sold in the United States, 
Canada, Europe, Asia and other markets. This segment 
also distributes a broad range of national brand products 
and provides supply chain services and solutions to 
hospitals, ambulatory surgery centers, clinical laboratories 
and other healthcare providers in the United States and 
Canada. This segment also distributes medical products to 
patients’ homes and provides post-acute care management 
and transition services and software to hospitals, other 
healthcare providers and payers in the United States.2017 Corporate Citizenship Report   І   14Product and supply chain integrity 
Anti-diversion and regulation
At Cardinal Health, our role as a distributor of pharmaceutical products is to provide a safe, cost-efficient  
and secure channel to deliver medications of all kinds, from the hundreds of manufacturers who make  
them, to the thousands of pharmacies that dispense them. We help ensure that prescribers, pharmacists  
and patients have access to the medications they need — when and where they need them. We work  
diligently, within our distribution channels, to prevent the diversion of prescription pain medications  
from pharmacies to illegitimate and inappropriate uses. We take this responsibility seriously; it is at the  
core of our business.
Our commitment to combatting prescription drug diversion 
Prescription drugs, including prescription pain medications, are critical to patient care; yet, their misuse  
and abuse has contributed to an opioid epidemic that is a serious and complex public health crisis. Operating  
as part of a multi-faceted and highly regulated healthcare system, we have state-of-the-industry control  
systems to combat the diversion of prescription pain medications from legitimate uses. 
Although, as a pharmaceutical distributor, we do not manufacture, promote or prescribe prescription  
medications to members of the public, we recognize our role alongside all participants in the prescription  
drug supply chain, including regulators, manufacturers, physicians, pharmacists, insurers and patients, in  
helping to combat this challenge.
Our sophisticated, state-of-the-industry anti-diversion program uses advanced analytics, technology and  
on-the-ground deployment of investigators to evaluate pharmacies and scrutinize customers and orders,  
as well as to identify, block and report orders of prescription controlled substances that do not meet our strict 
anti-diversion criteria. The Cardinal Health anti-diversion team consists of about 85 dedicated professionals. 
Our anti-diversion program consists of three main components: 
Know your customer
On a customer-specific basis, we understand the range of legitimate requirements for 
controlled substances and establish thresholds.
Electronic monitoring
Cardinal Health customers are subjected to electronic monitoring for every controlled 
substance order prior to fulfillment. Cardinal Health monitors dosage units for each controlled 
substance drug family; when a pharmacy’s orders hit the established threshold, the order is 
held and cancelled. Cancelled orders are reported to regulators.
Site visits
Cardinal Health conducts regular site visits to its customers across the country as part  
of its anti-diversion program.
Continues on the next page.2017 Corporate Citizenship Report   І   15The pharmaceutical supply chain
All medications travel through a complex and highly regulated healthcare system that 
includes many participants.
A patient visits his or her 
provider with a problem, 
and the provider makes 
a medical diagnosis and 
issues a prescription.A patient typically fills his 
or her prescription at one 
of the country’s more than 
65,000 pharmacies with a 
licensed pharmacist.Pharmacists restock 
medications, when 
needed, by placing orders 
with pharmaceutical 
distributors.Distributors receive 
pharmaceutical products 
from manufacturers and 
securely transport them 
to licensed pharmacies.We have been and intend to remain an industry leader on this vital issue.
The people of Cardinal Health care deeply about the devastation opioid abuse has caused American 
families and our communities. We’re committed to helping solve this complex national public health  
crisis and operate a constantly adaptive, rigorous internal systems to combat opioid diversion. 
For more than a decade, we’ve funded education and prevention programs in communities across  
the country through Generation Rx , a national program to help prevent the misuse of prescription 
medications that has reached more than a million people. In addition, our employees have collectively 
volunteered thousands of hours to community service to support drug take-back days and community 
awareness and education efforts at schools, senior centers and elsewhere.2017 Corporate Citizenship Report   І   16Quality and regulatory compliance
As a leading manufacturer and distributor of products for the healthcare industry, Cardinal Health  
and our employees across the globe work to comply with applicable legal and regulatory 
responsibilities to ensure we are providing safe and high-quality products. Our customers, shareholders  
and suppliers count on it, and our company’s continued success depends on it.
Our processes and procedures are designed to ensure compliance with applicable  
global regulations, and establish standards for design, manufacturing and distribution  
of our products. We provide training and education to our employees about our quality 
systems and applicable regulatory requirements.
Our businesses are responsible for product design and development, registration, qualification  
of private label suppliers, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, sourcing, warehousing, installation  
and servicing. They are supported by the Cardinal Health Quality and Regulatory Affairs department, 
which has oversight and advisory responsibility and is ultimately overseen by the chief legal and 
compliance officer.
Our businesses maintain Corrective and Preventive Action (CAPA) systems designed to recognize 
sources of non-conforming product, investigate and diagnose the root cause and implement 
appropriate remedies to prevent the potential issue or its recurrence. Our businesses also operate 
management systems designed to effectively handle complaints for continuous improvement and 
corrective action. 2017 Corporate Citizenship Report   І   17Safety and security of the pharmaceutical supply chain
The safety and security of our nation’s pharmaceutical supply is a top priority for Cardinal Health 
and a responsibility we take very seriously. A safe and reliable drug supply is central to our 
customers’ business and critical to the health and well-being of patients. 
Cardinal Health believes the fastest, safest and easiest way to secure the supply chain is by 
purchasing directly from the branded, generic or consumer health product manufacturers and 
distributing those products directly to our customers. 
We continue to implement measures to ensure the safety of our deliveries and of the people 
involved in those exchanges. 
Throughout our network we have strategically implemented the use of GPS  
units on routes to customer delivery locations throughout the U.S.  
We work with regional couriers who make deliveries in unmarked vehicles  
with tinted windows. 
We audit the chain of custody process  in the field to ensure that each step of the  
process is followed. 
We regularly review crime data to determine our highest risk areas. 
Cardinal Health ships all totes and cases containing controlled substances in  
the same manner as totes and cases that do not contain controlled substances.  
At the request of customers, we have the ability to  vary delivery time  so that there  
is not a predictable daily delivery that would be susceptible to notice. 
We work with various industry associations to stay up to date on the latest  
information on supply chain safety and security. 
We operate the Security Operations and Intelligence Center,  a centralized  
Cardinal Health security center manned 24/7 where events are reported, tracked  
and responded to accordingly. 2017 Corporate Citizenship Report   І   18
The continued success of Cardinal Health depends on our vendors and business 
partners acting with honesty and integrity while conducting business with or  
on behalf of Cardinal Health.
Cardinal Health sources from more than
Learn more:
• Vendor code of conduct
• Conflict minerals policy  Supplier compliance
Each Cardinal Health vendor must comply with applicable laws and regulations  
of the jurisdiction in which they are doing business, specifically including:
• U.S. federal healthcare fraud and abuse laws
• Anti-bribery and anti-corruption
• Import/export laws
• Facility and supply chain security
• Anti-counterfeiting
• Conflict minerals
• Boycotts
• Antitrust
• Industry standards
Supplier integrity
All Cardinal Health vendors must conduct their overall business  
with integrity. Our vendor code of conduct specifically addresses 
business records, interactions with regulators, media/investors, gifts, 
conflicts of interest, insider trading, business continuity and crisis 
management, as well as animal welfare.10,000  suppliers in  11 countries.Responsible sourcing2017 Corporate Citizenship Report   І   19Supplier labor practices and human rights
All Cardinal Health vendors must comply with the following labor and  
employment practices:
• Child labor
• Compensation
• Hours of labor
• Forced/prison labor
• Discrimination/rights
• Immigration law and compliance
• Employee identification
• Employee records
Supplier diversity
Cardinal Health is committed to diversity in our supplier base and develops and 
fosters strategic business relationships with large and small businesses owned 
by ethnic minorities, women and veterans. In FY17, we spent $3.2 billion with 
diverse suppliers. Cardinal Health participates in various events, workshops and 
seminars, providing an opportunity to share key program activities, best practices, 
and opportunities with diverse suppliers. We also develop and mentor diverse 
businesses through the National Minority Supplier Development Council Centers 
of Excellence (COE) program , Federal Government Mentor-Protégé program  
and under Cardinal Health Corporate guidelines. Read the full Diverse Supplier 
Inclusion Policy . 
Cathy Mock honored with Lifetime Achievement Award; 
Future Award namesake
This year Cathy Mock, Director, Supplier 
Diversity, was awarded the Lifetime 
Achievement Award from the Ohio Minority 
Supplier Development Council (Ohio MSDC). 
In addition to this recognition, the award was 
renamed in her honor for future generations.
Ohio MSDC is an organization that bridges 
minority-owned businesses and corporate 
America. As former President of Ohio MSDC, 
Cathy has worked tirelessly throughout her 
career to support minority-owned businesses 
and advance supplier diversity. Cathy is the Ohio MSDC’s Certification Committee 
Chair and has served on the Board of Directors for 17 consecutive years.$3.3  billionFY17 spend
with diverse suppliers
300Supplier partners
owned by women  
or minorities
2,700+Diverse supplier  
partner relationships
inclusive of small 
businesses,  
HUBZone-based  
businesses, and businesses 
owned by minorities, 
women, veterans and 
service-disabled veterans
2017 Corporate Citizenship Report   І   20Supplier diversity spotlight —   
DiSorb Systems 
At Cardinal Health, we promote sustainable business models, customer solutions 
and economic impact through our strong supply chain partnerships. DiSorb 
Systems is one of those partners who is strengthening Cardinal Health through 
providing diverse supplier solutions.
DiSorb is a premier service-disabled, veteran-owned liquid medical waste treatment product 
manufacturer based in a North Philadelphia HUBZone, a designation assigned by the Small 
Business Administration to denote economically depressed areas. Being located within a 
HUBZone allows DiSorb to employ members of the community and help provide a long 
lasting financial impact for current and future generations. DiSorb’s products help our 
customers take a step toward improving safety through solidifying liquid medical waste. 
DiSorb’s solidifiers turn liquid into a gel-like substance, so spills and splashes are virtually 
eliminated. They also decontaminate waste as it gels, further reducing the risk of dangerous 
bloodborne pathogens. This disinfecting solidifier allows hospitals to dispose of full 
suction canisters in non-regulated white bag trash, which can dramatically decrease 
waste management costs.  The Association of periOperative Registered Nurses (AORN) 
acknowledges that use of solidifiers greatly reduces the risk of exposure to blood and 
contaminated bodily fluids.2017 Corporate Citizenship Report   І   21Ethics and governance
Board of Directors
Our Board of Directors serves as the representative and acts on behalf of all of the 
shareholders of Cardinal Health. In representing Cardinal Health shareholders, the basic 
responsibility of the directors is to exercise their business judgment in good faith and to act 
in what they reasonably believe to be the best interests of the company. 
The Board, among other things, oversees management in the conduct of our businesses and 
management’s efforts to establish and maintain high standards of legal and ethical conduct; 
reviews and, where appropriate, approves, the company’s major business strategies, capital 
deployment and long-term plans and reviews its performance; selects, evaluates and sets 
the compensation for the chief executive officer and other senior officers and plans for 
management succession; oversees management’s efforts in regard to accounting, financial 
reporting and financial and other controls; oversees the company’s risk management 
policies and practices; recommends appropriate candidates for election as directors; and 
oversees other aspects of our corporate citizenship programs and practices.
A: Audit Committee member
C: Ad Hoc Committee member
H:  Human Resources and 
Compensation Committee 
member
N:  Nominating and Governance 
Committee member
I: Independent Lead Director
David J. Anderson (A) 
Retired Senior Vice 
President and  
Chief Financial Officer, 
Honeywell  
International Inc. 
Former Executive 
Vice President and 
Chief Financial 
Officer, Alexion 
Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Colleen F. Arnold (N) 
Retired Senior Vice 
President, Sales 
and Distribution, 
International Business 
Machines Corp.George S. Barrett  
Executive Chairman 
of the Board,  
Cardinal Health, Inc.Carrie S. Cox (H, C)  
Chairman and Chief 
Executive Officer,  
Humacyte, Inc.  
Former Executive 
Vice President and 
President, Global 
Pharmaceuticals, 
Schering-Plough Corp.of our board of directors is 
ethnically or gender diverse46%In operating our business, we are guided by established standards of corporate governance 
and ethics. The foundation of our approach to corporate governance is presented in our 
proxy statement.
Continues on the next page.2017 Corporate Citizenship Report   І   22Gregory B. Kenny  
(I, N, C)   
Retired President and 
Chief Executive Officer, 
General Cable Corp.Nancy Killefer (H) 
Retired Senior  
Partner, Public Sector 
Practice, McKinsey & 
Company, Inc.
David P . King (H)  
Chairman, President 
and Chief Executive 
Officer, Laboratory 
Corp. of America 
Holdings
Michael C. Kaufmann  
Chief Executive Officer,  
Cardinal Health, Inc.
Clayton M. Jones (A) 
Retired Chairman, 
President and Chief 
Executive Officer,  
Rockwell Collins, Inc.
A: Audit Committee member
C: Ad Hoc Committee member
H:  Human Resources and 
Compensation Committee 
member
N:  Nominating and Governance 
Committee member
I: Independent Lead Director
Calvin Darden (H, C)  
Retired Senior Vice 
President, U.S. 
Operations, United 
Parcel Service, Inc.Bruce L. Downey (A, C)  
Partner, New Spring 
Health Capital II, LP  
Retired Chairman  
and Chief Executive 
Officer, Barr 
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Patricia A. Hemingway 
Hall (A, N)  
Retired President and 
Chief Executive Officer, 
Health Care Service 
Corp.
Akhil Johri (A) 
Executive Vice 
President and Chief 
Financial Officer, United 
Technologies Corp.
In 2018, the Board formed an Ad Hoc 
Committee of independent directors to 
assist the Board in overseeing the company’s 
response to the opioid crisis.2017 Corporate Citizenship Report   І   23Governance of corporate responsibility
We have an Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Coordinating 
Committee, a cross-functional group of senior managers from our company.  
The ESG Coordinating Committee serves as the central coordinating body  
for our ESG strategy, benchmarking and reporting. 
Ethics and compliance program
Our chief legal and compliance officer has responsibility to implement and 
maintain an effective ethics and compliance program. The Audit Committee  
of our Board of Directors oversees our ethics and compliance program.
Business conduct line
Our employees, as well as third parties, can ask questions about our Standards 
of Business Conduct and other ethics and compliance issues, or report potential 
violations, through our Business Conduct Line, a global telephone information 
and reporting service. Telephone calls are toll-free, and the Business Conduct 
Line is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, with translators available. 
Cardinal Health has structures in place to handle inquiries regarding ethics and 
compliance issues and if a concern is substantiated, the situation is resolved 
through appropriate corrective actions, which may include disciplinary action.
More information about our approach to and administration of ethical  
business conduct for employees and third parties is available on our Ethics  
and Compliance  page. 
Anti-bribery and anti-corruption
Cardinal Health prohibits bribery and other corrupt conduct in any form  
within the countries in which we do business. In addition, other than payment  
of published fees to file documents, Cardinal Health employees must not  
make payment to expedite or secure a routine governmental action, often 
referred to as a facilitating payment. Employees who conduct business  
on a global basis must undergo periodic training on anti-corruption laws  
and our policy and procedures.
Interaction with healthcare professionals
We have processes and procedures to comply with the laws, regulations and 
industry codes that govern the interactions of healthcare companies and 
healthcare professionals in the many countries in which we do business.  
To help ensure compliance, our employees receive periodic communications  
as well as online and in-person trainings.Learn more:
• 2017  Proxy Statement  
• Standards of Business Conduct
• Anti-bribery and anti-corruption 
guide for third-party vendors 
working on behalf of Cardinal Health
• Cardinal Health corporate 
governance page
2017 Corporate Citizenship Report   І   24Data privacy
Cardinal Health has policies and procedures designed to comply with the laws 
that govern the collection, use and management of patient-identifiable health 
information and other sensitive personal and financial information in the countries 
where we do business. These laws include the U.S. Health Insurance Portability and 
Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) and European Union data privacy regulations. 
We have programs in place to detect, contain and respond to information security 
incidents, which are overseen by our chief information security officer and ultimately 
our chief information officer. We regularly conduct information security and privacy 
audits, domestically and internationally, to gauge our employees’ understanding of 
our data protection policies. We also conduct practice cyber event drills to prepare 
for potential incidents. We build employee awareness of privacy issues through 
regular training and engagement.
Corporate political activity
Cardinal Health believes that as a responsible corporate citizen, it’s important to  
participate in the political process by using our unique knowledge and experience 
in healthcare to help inform and advise policy makers on matters that impact the 
quality, effectiveness and affordability of healthcare and impact our company, 
customers, shareholders and employees. Consistent with our Standards of Business 
Conduct, our political contributions policy reflects our commitment to comply  
with federal, state and local laws and regulations governing political contributions 
and lobbying.
The vast majority of our political contributions to state candidates, and all of our 
contributions to federal candidates, are made by the Cardinal Health Companies  
Political Action Committee (PAC), and not with corporate funds. While the PAC is 
administratively supported by Cardinal Health, it is funded entirely by voluntary 
contributions from our employees.
The Nominating and Governance Committee of our Board of Directors oversees  
our policies and practices regarding political expenditures, including an annual 
review of our political contributions policy and corporate political contributions  
and trade association dues and payments. 
We disclose contributions from corporate funds to state candidates and ballot 
initiatives and identify trade associations to which we paid more than $50,000 
in annual corporate member payments in our annual political activities and 
contributions report.
Learn more:
• Political activities and  
contributions report2017 Corporate Citizenship Report   І   25of where we live, 
work and play
Community
Cardinal Health is a responsible, 
engaged and helpful citizen in the 
communities and countries where  
we are located. Through financial 
support from Cardinal Health, the 
Cardinal Health Foundation and  
the investment of employee time,  
we focus on three core areas:  
reduced prescription drug misuse, 
better patient outcomes and  
healthier communities.
including a Cardinal Health 
Foundation match$3 millionIn 2017, employees personally 
contributed nearly
of volunteer time  
to nonprofitsthousands  
of hoursEmployees gave2017 Corporate Citizenship Report   І   26Reducing prescription drug misuse
A decade ago, the Cardinal Health Foundation partnered with The Ohio State 
University College of Pharmacy to create Generation Rx, a national prescription  
drug prevention education and awareness program. 1 MILLIONMore than
people have been 
reached with the 
Generation Rx message.
EVERY
STATE
Generational Rx 
educational resources 
have been used in 
every state in the U.S.
100 COLLEGESMore than
have Generation Rx 
programs.
Generation Rx takes a multi-pronged approach to ending  
prescription drug misuse:
Prevention education
Generation Rx offers age-appropriate resources to educate everyone about 
using medications safely. Materials include presentations, handouts, activities 
and videos. 
Drug take-back programs
Generation Rx helps communities build or expand medication disposal 
programs. Grantees, working alongside pharmacists and youth, are raising 
awareness and getting rid of thousands of pounds of drugs that are no  
longer needed.
Best practices in pain management
We support healthcare organizations as they engage patients and healthcare 
providers in reducing the number of opioids prescribed for pain. Our goal is 
simple: Better pain management with fewer opioids.  
Community collaborations
Generation Rx supports communities as they work together to reduce 
prescription drug misuse. We know that ending the prescription drug misuse 
epidemic requires everyone to join forces, create non-traditional partnerships 
and design new strategies. Generation Rx supports communities as they  
work together to create innovative partnerships and design new strategies.  
PHARMACISTS
have been honored 
with the Generation Rx 
Champions award  
since 2010.More than
230OF PHARMACY2017 Corporate Citizenship Report   І   27
To build on Generation Rx efforts, Cardinal Health launched 
the Opioid Action Program . The program aims at helping 
communities in four of the nation’s hardest-hit states across 
Appalachia — Ohio, Kentucky, Tennessee and West Virginia 
— combat the opioid epidemic. 
The Opioid Action Program has four elements, each cited by leading experts, including the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention (CDC), the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine (NASEM), and the President’s Commission 
on Combating Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis, as critical to the fight to reduce opioid abuse and casualties. 
Distribution of 
Narcan® free-of-
charge for first 
responders and  
law enforcement
Cardinal Health is 
purchasing more than  
80,000 dosage units 
of overdose-reversing 
Narcan® for distribution 
for first responders and 
law enforcement.Drug take-back 
events
Cardinal Health will offer 
more robust support 
for drug take-back and 
education programs, 
including more than  
80 take-back events 
across 22 states.Student and 
prescriber 
education
Cardinal Health invested 
in a $3 million expansion 
of grants focused on 
youth prevention 
education, prescriber 
opioid awareness and 
reduction efforts, and 
community responses  
to the epidemic.Medical school 
training
Cardinal Health has 
partnered with the 
Warren Alpert Medical 
School of Brown 
University to support 
the development 
of curriculum that 
will teach the next 
generation of physicians 
core competencies in 
preventing prescription 
drug misuse.
Cardinal Health will evaluate the success and impact  
of this pilot program and seek opportunities to expand  
it into additional states and communities.1 2 3 4OPIOID ACTION PROGRAM
A Cardinal Health™ Program2017 Corporate Citizenship Report   І   28Community involvement spotlight —   
2017 hurricane recovery
In response to three major hurricanes making direct landfall in the U.S. and Puerto Rico  
throughout August and September, Cardinal Health contributed nearly $2 million in product  
donations to AmeriCares and World Vision International, two disaster relief organizations  
experienced in getting medical supplies quickly to those in need. Employees also personally  
donated tens of thousands of dollars to help colleagues most impacted by the storms.
In addition to these contributions, many employees worked front and center to support  
rescue relief efforts during Hurricanes Harvey and Irma.
Pam West, Manager, Nuclear Pharmacy Services at Cardinal Health — Houston, Texas
While at home when the storm first began, Pam stayed in close contact with her five employees who  
were stuck in the pharmacy and unable to leave. Although they planned ahead with plenty of food  
and water, the time was extremely stressful. The very next day, Pam’s husband drove her to the  
pharmacy to help her employees find a way out.
After her employees safely exited the pharmacy, Pam took the responsibility of staying at the  
pharmacy for four days. With very little rest and a willing heart, she answered customer calls,  
employee calls and constantly altered her plan for how and when to re-open the pharmacy. Pam  
used a security mobile app to rescue an employee’s son who had gotten stranded at a gas station  
and had lost his car in the flood waters. She also rescued a kitten, affectionately named Harvey.
Better patient outcomes
Over the last decade, through our Effectiveness, Efficiency and Excellence in Healthcare Grant Program,  
the Cardinal Health Foundation has invested nearly $10 million in more than 300 grants to hospitals,  
health systems or other health-related organizations to improve patient outcomes and reduce costs.
Healthier communities and disaster relief
The Cardinal Health Foundation provides financial support while our employees invest time to help  
countries worldwide through community involvement and donations to global disaster relief efforts.
Business resiliency
Cardinal Health takes its responsibility to maintain service to our customers during crisis situations very 
seriously, as demonstrated through our history of service during natural and human-made events. Whether 
an everyday incident, an emergency or a disaster, we have appropriate response and recovery capabilities.
Our Business Resiliency Management team has business resiliency plans that coordinate business 
operations and emergency preparedness procedures for each of our facilities to anticipate, respond  
to and stabilize a situation immediately following an incident. Our plans are designed to comply with 
national, state and local regulatory agency policies. In collaboration with governmental agencies, we focus 
on taking quick action to protect lives, enable our customers and ensure the integrity of our supply chain. 
In addition, we work closely with Healthcare Ready  (formerly Rx Response) — a 501(c)(3) organization that 
brings together public health and private sectors to help strengthen healthcare supply chains before, 
during, and after disasters.
Read more stories  
about how 
collaboration and 
dedication helped 
overcome barriers  
in Texas and Florida 
for our customers 
and employees.2017 Corporate Citizenship Report   І   29
Environmental, health and safety
The Cardinal Health environmental, health and safety (EHS) programs strive 
to take care of where we live, work and play. In addition to our commitment 
to the health and safety of our employees, our contractors and our 
community, we remain committed to minimizing the impacts of our business 
on the environment. We believe that work-related illnesses, injuries and 
environmental incidents are preventable. 
It’s our vision to have all employees and contractors working  
safely and in an environmentally responsible manner  
100 percent of the time.  Learn more:
• Global EHS Policy
• Global EHS Management System
• Global Environmental Sustainability 
Guiding Principles  2017 Corporate Citizenship Report   І   30Health and safety initiatives
Cardinal Health has health and safety training programs and initiatives that target risk reduction. 
Ergonomic Solutions
(projects with >20% improvement 
from baseline)Injury  
Reduction Initiatives1,013
461
FY170500100015002000
3291,018
410 605
FY15 FY161.47
01.64 1.38
1.001.201.401.601.80
FY17 FY15 FY16Ergonomic and injury reduction initiatives
Since FY15, we’ve completed more than 1,400 ergonomic solutions and more than 2,300 injury reduction 
initiatives aimed at reducing risk and making our employees and contractors safer in the workplace. The 
ergonomic and injury reduction initiatives are integrated into operations. The Total Recordable Incident  
Rate is just one of the many metrics we utilize in sustaining our safety culture.Examples include some of the following:
10- and 30-hour safety courses  that provide training on identifying, correcting, avoiding 
and preventing job-related hazards, targeting operations personnel such as supervisors 
and managers.
Root cause analysis training  that provides a uniform approach toward determining root 
causes and developing mitigation actions.  
Electrical safety course,  developed in partnership with a leader in live maintenance 
training, to focus on building skills with hands-on training critical to completing work 
competently and safely.
Cardinal Health has partnered with a global leader in contractor safety programs to 
enhance contractor compliance and risk mitigation.
Ergonomic solutions and injury  
reduction initiatives
(project count)Total Recordable Incident Rate
(total OSHA recordable incidents x 200,000/total  
hours worked)Environmental sustainability guiding principles
Fundamental to our environmental sustainability program are four key principles that guide our efforts.
Pollution prevention 
Minimize waste generated 
in our operations and 
maintain high rates of reuse 
and recycling.
2017 Corporate Citizenship Report   І   31
Energy optimization
Optimize energy 
selection and use to 
reduce impacts to the 
environment, minimize 
greenhouse gas emissions 
and give preference to 
renewable energy sources 
when feasible.Design for environment
Design products and services 
to reduce consumption of 
natural resources and energy 
requirements, to reduce 
waste and emissions,  
and to maximize overall 
product functionality.Employee and  
public outreach
Promote environmental 
awareness and 
engagement among 
employees, the public and 
our customers that lead to 
sustainable development.2017 Corporate Citizenship Report   І   32Environmental sustainability initiatives
Greenhouse gas emissions
Cardinal Health invests in energy optimization technologies that reduce our 
greenhouse gas emissions through improving technology and increasing efficiency. 
Examples of past projects include a Leadership in Energy and Environmental 
Design (LEED) certified headquarters building, a biomass boiler, solar photovoltaic 
(PV) panels, more efficient heating, ventilation, air-conditioning (HVAC) systems, 
upgraded efficient process equipment, upgraded lighting with light emitting diode 
(LED) technology, improved temperature control measures in office buildings and 
improved building insulation values. Ongoing energy optimization projects across 
our portfolio provide energy cost savings and reduce carbon dioxide equivalency 
(CO2e) emissions.
In FY17 approximately 1,900 Metric Tonnes CO 2e1 and 2.6 million kWh were avoided 
due to energy efficiency projects.
Cardinal Health engaged Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. in an independent 
verification of our reported greenhouse gas emissions. Our FY17 and CY16 emission 
data have been verified at a Limited Level of Assurance: Scope 1, Scope 2 (Location 
based), and Scope 3 (Air travel departing from North America only).
Greenhouse Gas
(thousand metric tons CO 2e)
* Scope 1 & 2: Calculated according to The Climate Registry General Reporting Protocol
† Scope 3: Calculated according to the U.S. EPA Emission Factors for Greenhouse Gas Inventories 
FY17 represents approximately 85 percent of total square footage.2020 19
220 214 209
149
FY170138 143
FY15 FY16100200300400
Scope 1 (Direct)*
Scope 2 (Indirect)*
Scope 3 (Other Indirect)†Metric Tonnes CO 2e and1,900FY17 energy efficiency 
projects resulted in
kWh avoided2.6  million
1  Calculated according to U.S. EPA greenhouse gas equivalencies calculator2017 Corporate Citizenship Report   І   33Water usage 
(million cubic meters)
FY15 FY16
Total usage
Total recycled
FY17 represents approximately 85 percent of total square footage.4.2
0.83.6
0.6FY17
4.2
1.0Water conservation
Cardinal Health strives to conserve the amount of water used in our manufacturing processes, and  
on our facility grounds. 
In FY17 more than 20 percent (or more than 250 million gallons) of our total water 
consumption was comprised of recycled process water at our facilities.
A manufacturing plant has invested in a waste water recovery operation from their expanding 
process instead of sending increased waste water to local water treatment plants.
A Cardinal Health facility in Puerto Rico collects rain water from site roofs and utilizes it for 
cooling of air handling units, bathrooms and irrigation. Since its installation, this collection 
system continues to reduce municipal water demand and reduce energy consumption  
for the air handling units.
At the Cardinal Health headquarters, rain water runoff is redirected and collected to 
supplement water used for irrigation of the campus grounds. 
A facility located in an arid climate has re-landscaped their grounds implementing xeriscaping 
in which only native plants that thrive in their region are utilized thus eliminating the need for 
supplemental irrigation.
Multiple facilities have reduced their amount of water usage from eliminating lawn irrigation.
Renewable energy
Cardinal Health has invested globally in renewable energy projects. In  
FY17 solar panels generated more than 207,000 kWh. The Cardinal Health  
Rayong, Thailand manufacturing operation, with a long-standing commitment  
toward environmental sustainability, can operate a biomass renewable  
energy boiler depending on economic conditions. Fueled by sustainable 
eucalyptus wood wastes, the renewable energy generator is capable of  
offsetting 100 percent of the natural gas consumption in the manufacturing 
process. The biomass boiler utilizes fuel supplied by partners that are certified 
Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) 100 percent.
Waste to energy / Landfill avoidance
Some locations are pursuing landfill avoidance by sending site wastes to 
incineration-to-energy facilities. 
Transportationpounds of waste  
avoided landfills2.5  millionIn FY17 more than
Cardinal Health has been a partner in good 
standing in the SmartWay program as both a 
shipper and a carrier since 2010. Cardinal Health 
Canada has been a partner since 2015.
Cardinal Health Puerto Rico has invested in liquid 
petroleum gas (LPG) fleet vehicles to increase 
efficiency and reduce both emissions and costs. 
The project has successfully resulted in improved 
fuel efficiency, while reducing maintenance costs, 
fuel prices and emissions. The success of the project 
resulted in an ongoing expansion to the LPG fleet.
Some locations offer electric vehicle charging 
stations available to employees. Station data along 
with employee feedback will guide future electric 
vehicle charging station deployment.  
2017 Corporate Citizenship Report   І   34
2017 Corporate Citizenship Report   І   35Recycling
Recycling is a part of our core guiding principles fundamental to our  
sustainability program. Our programs recycle wood, cardboard, plastics, paper, 
metal, electronics and ink cartridges among other resources. In FY17, more than 
102 million pounds of materials were recycled, which equates to 75 percent of  
our total waste.
Waste minimization
In working toward minimizing landfill waste, multiple facilities are working with  
a U.S. manufacturer of printer toner cartridges. The manufacturer operates a closed 
loop process allowing remanufactured cartridge cores to be reused multiple times 
and avoid single use and disposal as landfill waste.
Additionally, Cardinal Health is actively reducing our paper waste through the 
adoption of electronic documentation. What began as an idea submitted to the 
company’s internal innovation competition has expanded into an enterprise-wide 
standard. Electronic signatures and electronic document tracking are saving the 
company time, money and energy.Recycling data  
(million pounds)
FY15 FY16 FY17
Wood37. 5 44.2 47.4
Cardboard34.3 33.9 37.1
Paper1.7 2.4 2.4
Plastics4.7 5.5 8.6
Metals2.4 2.7 2.4
Electronics0.2 0.3 0.3
Total recycling and waste   
(million pounds)
34
2527
102
FY17085 93
FY15 FY1650100150
Non recycledRecycled
FY17 represents approximately 85 percent of total square footage.2017 Corporate Citizenship Report   І   36Environmental sustainability spotlight —   
Community engagement
Carbon Disclosure Project
We have disclosed our environmental information and impacts with the 
Carbon Disclosure Project annually since 2009. View our 2017 CDP response .
SmartWay® Partner
We have been a partner of the SmartWay® Program since 2010. Through 
its partnership, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) helps 
SmartWay® Partners move more goods, more miles with lower emissions 
and less energy.  Learn more .
Healthcare Plastics Recycling Council member
The Healthcare Plastics Recycling Council (HPRC) is a private technical 
coalition of peers across the healthcare, recycling and waste management 
industries seeking to inspire and enable sustainable, cost-effective recycling 
solutions for plastic products and materials  
used in the delivery of healthcare. Learn more .
RobecoSAM Sustainability Yearbook
Cardinal Health qualified for inclusion in the 2018 Sustainability Yearbook 
and has received the Industry Mover distinction for its excellent 
sustainability performance. Learn more .Packaging technology center
Cardinal Health creates optimized packaging designs for our business that meet patient 
safety requirements while conforming to the principals of regulatory compliance and 
environmental efficacy. The team of engineers at the Packaging Technology Center  
evaluate packaging designs to find opportunities for improvement in both recyclability  
and raw material utilization.
In FY17 the team implemented multiple optimization projects reducing more than 35,000  
pounds of packaging material.
2017 Corporate Citizenship Report   І   37About this report
Unless otherwise indicated, this report details our corporate citizenship efforts during FY17  
(July 1, 2016 – June 30, 2017). The statistics and metrics included in this report may be based 
on estimates, assumptions or developing standards. The report, except for the greenhouse gas 
emissions data, has not been externally assured or verified by an independent third party.
Cardinal Health is headquartered in Dublin, Ohio. Most of our FY17 annual revenue was generated 
in North America. While the scope of the FY17 report primarily reflects North America, our business 
description and ethics and governance sections reflect company-wide practice. In addition, data 
included in the environmental, health and safety section is based on our global operations. 
Environmental data does not reflect mergers and acquisitions that occurred during FY17.
For more information about the operations of Cardinal Health, please refer to the  
FY17  Cardinal Health Annual Report . 
Cautionary note
This report contains forward-looking statements addressing expectations, prospects, estimates and 
other matters that are dependent upon future events or developments. These statements may be 
identified by words such as “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “will,” “should,” “could,” 
“would,” “project,” “continue,” “likely,” and similar expressions, and include statements reflecting 
our goals, plans and projections with respect to corporate citizenship, sustainability, employees, 
environmental matters and policy and business risks and opportunities. These matters addressed  
in forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results  
to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. These risks and uncertainties  
include competitive pressures in Cardinal Health’s various lines of business; risks associated with the 
recently completed acquisition of the Patient Recovery Business, including the ability to retain the 
acquired businesses’ customers and employees, the ability to successfully integrate the acquired  
businesses into our operations and the ability to achieve the expected synergies as well as accretion 
in earnings; changes in the distribution patterns or reimbursement rates for health care products and 
services; and the effects of any investigation or action by any governmental or regulatory authority, 
including litigation relating to opioid distribution. Cardinal Health is subject to additional risks  
and uncertainties described in Cardinal Health’s Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports and 
exhibits to those reports. Forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the date of this 
document. Except to the extent required by applicable law, Cardinal Health undertakes no obligation 
to update or revise any forward-looking statement. Forward-looking statements are aspirational and 
not guarantees or promises that goals or targets will be met. Investors are cautioned not to place 
undue reliance on any forward-looking statements.
cardinalhealth.com© 2018 Cardinal Health. All Rights Reserved . CARDINAL HEALTH, the Cardinal Health LOGO and 
ESSENTIAL TO CARE  are trademarks of Cardinal Health and may be registered in the US and/or in other 
countries.  All other marks are the property of their respective owners. Lit. No. 5LE17-728207 (4/2018)