Corporate
Citizenship
Repor t 2019
A message to our stakeholders ______________________________ 3
Essential to care™ _________________________________________ 7
Our Path Forward  ________________________________________ 8
ESG management and governance  __________________________ 9
Stakeholder engagement  _________________________________ 11
Empowering our people  ________________________________ 12Creating value for our customers and our partners __________ 27
Strengthening our communities  _________________________ 41
Operating sustainably and responsibly  ____________________ 48
Governance and ethics  _________________________________ 56 
About this report  _______________________________________ 63
GRI index  _____________________________________________ 64Table of contents
Editor’s note: This report was largely created before 
the COVID-19 pandemic. During the pandemic, we at 
Cardinal Health are working around the clock to meet 
the needs of healthcare providers so they can safely 
serve the patients who depend on them. 
Learn about our response »
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index 2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    2This Corporate Citizenship Report was nearly complete when the COVID-19 pandemic changed the world in ways no one could ever have 
imagined. So I am beginning this letter differently than I originally planned. 
First, I want to express my deepest gratitude to every frontline worker and healthcare professional  
around the globe. The courage and commitment you bring to work with you every day is awe-inspiring.  
Your work is making a difference. Thank you.
Since early March, the 48,000 Cardinal Health employees around the 
world have been more focused than ever before on delivering the 
products and solutions that improve the lives of people every day. We 
have been working around the clock to meet the needs of healthcare 
providers so they can safely serve the patients who depend on them. 
Because we are part of a critical infrastructure industry, our employees 
are reporting to work daily in distribution centers, supply chain 
operations, manufacturing sites, pharmacies and other clinical sites. 
Their efforts are essential to the healthcare system, and protecting 
their health and safety — and that of their families — is vital.
To help prevent the spread of COVID-19, all our facilities are thoroughly 
and frequently cleaned, and we have implemented the worksite 
hygiene practices in accordance with the Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention and World Health Organization guidelines. All 
employees who are able to work remotely are working from home; we have significantly expanded our technology infrastructure to help 
employees around the globe continue to support customers, patients 
and our frontline workers.
As a company, we are actively collaborating with supply chain 
partners and the federal government to understand and manage 
the impact of the pandemic on product supply. We are closely 
monitoring developments and adapting our operations as the 
pandemic continues to evolve. Learn more about our work  
to effectively respond »
In a time like this — perhaps especially in a time like this — it’s 
important to maintain our commitment to good corporate 
citizenship. Even before the pandemic, our industry and our company 
had experienced many changes. Over the past several years, we have 
acquired new businesses, our operating model has changed and we 
face new market and industry challenges. A message to our stakeholders 
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    3 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index These changes have given us the opportunity to identify the best parts of our culture. In 2019, we embarked on Our Path Forward, an 
initiative that helps us come together in new ways — from shared language and new values to alignment across the enterprise toward 
our goals. Our Path Forward defines why we exist: to deliver products and solutions to improve the lives of people every day. And it 
provides a road map for where we are going, how we will succeed and what we value. Across our organization, we are moving forward 
with a unified commitment and shared vision to be healthcare’s most trusted partner. 
Throughout this report, you’ll read how we are following our path as we maintain our focus on corporate citizenship by empowering our 
people, continually creating value for our customers and partners, strengthening our communities and seeking more opportunities to 
operate sustainably. And you’ll read about how our employees live our values every day.
• Empowering our people: We aim to create a best-in-class work environment based on a commitment to living our values — an 
environment that inspires excellence, innovation and collaboration. We work hard to ensure a respectful, diverse and inclusive 
workforce where everyone is comfortable bringing 100% of themselves to work every day.
• Creating value for our customers and our partners: Cardinal Health is a globally integrated healthcare services and products 
company that serves patient care providers and healthcare manufacturers around the world. We are one of the few companies in 
healthcare providing both the pharmaceutical and medical solutions that help our customers give their patients the best possible care.
• Strengthening our communities:  Our employees are tireless in their commitment to giving back to their communities with their 
time, talent and treasure. We encourage them to give back to the causes that mean the most to them — and they do: volunteering, 
fundraising and making donations to nonprofit organizations around the globe. In the U.S., employees’ donations receive matching 
gifts from the Cardinal Health Foundation.
• Operating sustainably and responsibly: As a global company, we know that the long-term health of our communities, our 
colleagues, our customers and our partners depends on a sustainable world. Across our footprint we look for ways to reduce 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, reduce landfill burden, conserve water, and design products and services that reduce overall 
environmental impact.
Integrity
we hold ourselves to the highest 
ethical standards 
Inclusive
we embrace differences to drive 
the best outcomes 
Innovative
we develop new ways of thinking, 
operating and serving customers
Accountable
we bring passion, determination and 
grit to deliver on our commitments
Mission driven
we serve the greater goal  
of healthcareOur values
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    4 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index One of the things I am most passionate about is diversity and inclusion — in our workplaces 
and in our communities. By respecting and appreciating diversity of thought, experience 
and background, we are becoming more innovative, increasing employee engagement 
and improving customer and shareholder value. Research shows that diverse and inclusive 
workplaces consistently outperform non-inclusive and non-diverse workplaces.
We have put into action world-class diversity and inclusion strategies, solutions, programs 
and processes that will allow us to create a robust culture that will benefit our employees, our 
customers and our communities. We are committed to building a diverse workforce with 
equitable access to hiring, development and advancement. Managers are required to seek out 
a slate of candidates that includes women and minorities for any job or promotion.
Of the eight leaders who report directly to me, four are women and one is an African 
American male. Around the world, nearly 40% of management-level employees and 51% of 
professionals are women. You can read more about our D&I work beginning on page 13.
In 2019, Cardinal Health joined the Gender Parity Collaborative through the Healthcare 
Businesswomen’s Association. This is a consortium of healthcare and life-science companies 
committed to closing the gender gap, beginning in their individual companies. Key focus areas 
include advancing women of color, encouraging men to be allies and promoting women into 
senior leadership roles.
Within Cardinal Health, we have launched an unconscious bias training, required for every 
incentive eligible leader, designed to help each of us become aware of implicit bias. We’ve 
seen a real desire for this kind of training; more than 99% of our vice presidents and above 
completed the course within just a few months. A couple of years ago, I put into place an internal D&I Steering Council and charged the members 
— all senior leaders of the company — with helping to change internal conversations about 
diversity and inclusion. I have asked the Council members to be “truth tellers” to me and other 
senior executives, identifying and discussing with us barriers to D&I across the company.
Last year, I hosted the company’s first ever D&I Town Hall and, with a panel of senior  
leaders, spoke very transparently about what the value “Inclusive” means to us personally  
and at Cardinal Health. 
Today, some of the conversations about diversity and inclusion that we’re having at every 
level of the company are uncomfortable … and they should be. Because if you’re not 
uncomfortable, you’re not talking about things that are going to make a real difference.
Mike Kaufmann invited D&I 
Steering Council members 
Melissa Laber, Travis Leonard 
and Stephanie Revish to discuss 
diversity and inclusion during 
the the company’s first ever  
D&I Town Hall.
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    5 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index Finally, I want to address the deeply troubling issue of opioid misuse. It is a public 
health issue that has impacted nearly every community across the United States, 
including many, many families within the Cardinal Health community.
We have invested millions of dollars in fighting prescription opioid misuse. This 
work began with Generation Rx, an evidence-informed prevention education 
and awareness program designed for anyone to use to educate people of all 
ages about safe medication practices and the potential dangers of misusing 
prescription medications. Generation Rx was founded at The Ohio State 
University College of Pharmacy and has been powered through a partnership 
with the Cardinal Health Foundation since 2009. To date, its medication safety 
messages have reached more than 2 million people across the country.
More recently, we have awarded grants to build awareness, expand drug take-
back initiatives and support healthcare systems as they work to reduce the 
number of opioids their providers prescribe.
In 2019, Cardinal Health launched an online training, required for all U.S. 
employees, to help our employees better understand the epidemic, our 
commitment to fighting it and how they can help support the work.Cardinal Health also does significant work to help keep prescription opioids 
out of the wrong hands. We spot, stop and report to our regulators all 
orders of prescription opioids identified as suspicious under our strict, 
uncompromising systems. We continually adapt our system to prevent the 
diversion and misuse of medications.
We look forward to continuing these efforts to making a meaningful 
difference in all our communities. 
I hope you will read on to learn more about what we are doing to create 
a best-in-class workplace, to strengthen our communities and to become 
healthcare’s most trusted partner.
Stay safe and be well.
The medication 
safety messages of 
Generation Rx have 
reached more than  
2 million people  
across the country.Generation Rx presentation  
at Glacier Ridge Elementary 
in central Ohio.
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    6 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index We deliver products and solutions to 
improve the lives of people every day. 
We serve:
Nearly 90%  of U.S. hospitals
More than 6,500  labs with nearly  
51,000  laboratory products
More than 10,000  specialty 
physician offices and clinics More than 3 million  patients 
with more than 46,000  home 
healthcare productsMore than 29,000  pharmaciesEssential to care™
Providing the necessary partnership to help customers navigate the complex 
healthcare landscape, Cardinal Health is a global, integrated healthcare products 
and solutions company. 
We provide vital products, world-class services and customized solutions for 
hospitals and health systems, pharmacies, clinical laboratories, ambulatory 
surgery centers and physician offices worldwide.
Headquartered in Dublin, Ohio, 
Cardinal Health plays an important 
role in the healthcare industry by 
acting as a crucial link between 
the clinical and operational worlds, 
focused on helping our customers 
improve the lives of people every day.Approximately 48,000   
employees worldwide
$145.5 billion  in revenue  
in fiscal year 2019
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    7 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index In 2019, we embarked on Our Path Forward, a long-term initiative that defines why we exist as an organization, where we are going and how we will succeed. It has brought us together 
around shared values and goals, and is helping us to work better together as an enterprise. 
As we strive to become healthcare’s most trusted partner, we are united around four areas of focus: empowering our people, creating value for our customers and partners, strengthening 
our communities and operating sustainably and responsibly. You’ll see how the ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) priorities we identified in FY19 fit within each of these areas. 
(You can read more about our ESG priorities on the following pages.)
Empowering  
our people  
Ensuring our employees thrive  
at work and at home  
ESG priority areas
• Focusing on diversity and inclusion
• Fostering employee engagement
• Supporting health and well-being 
• Providing opportunities for learning  
and growthCreating value  
for our customers 
and partners
Delivering the products and 
solutions to improve the lives  
of people every day
ESG priority areas
• Ensuring product quality and safety 
• Ensuring data privacy and security
• Responding to the opioid epidemic through 
our Opioid Action Program, supply chain 
integrity and anti-diversion programs
• Sourcing responsiblyStrengthening  
our communities  
Supporting our employees’ 
community engagement and 
investing in healthcare 
ESG priority area
• Responding to the opioid epidemic  
through prevention, building awareness  
and reducing prescribingOperating 
sustainably  
and responsibly
Striving to minimize the impacts of 
our business on the environment
ESG priority areas
• Environmental impact
• Ethics and complianceOur Path Forward
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    8 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index In FY19, the Cardinal Health board of directors 
delegated the oversight of environmental 
sustainability and other corporate citizenship 
activities to the Nominating and Governance 
Committee. This oversight is in addition to  
the Nominating and Governance Committee’s 
responsibility to oversee traditional governance 
issues, political contributions and lobbying.  
Other board committees oversee ESG-related issues: The 
Audit Committee oversees ethics and compliance (including 
anti-bribery and anti-corruption), cybersecurity and data 
privacy, and quality and regulatory issues. The Human 
Resources and Compensation Committee oversees human 
capital management strategies and policies, including 
diversity and inclusion, talent recruitment and development, 
employee compensation and benefits, and workplace safety 
and culture. The Ad Hoc Committee oversees the company’s 
response to the opioid epidemic.The ESG Steering Committee
Our ESG Steering Committee includes senior managers in 
corporate functions and business leadership roles across 
the company who help oversee our ESG strategies and lead 
our efforts to integrate corporate citizenship throughout our 
businesses. The ESG Steering Committee:
• Coordinates and prioritizes recommendations and  
requests about ESG issues
• Makes recommendations to management on ESG  
projects and investments, with a focus on business  
benefit, cost-effectiveness and sustainability
• Assesses recommendations and requests for ESG information 
or initiatives from stakeholders and interest groups
• Develops consistent internal and external  
communications about ESG matters 
Determining ESG priorities
In FY19, we engaged an external partner to help us identify 
seven ESG priorities that are most relevant to our company 
and to our stakeholders, including employees, customers, investors, suppliers, regulators, standard-setters and peer 
companies. In conducting this ESG priority assessment, we:
• Identified stakeholders by determining the groups that might 
be affected by or could influence or impact our activities
• Defined issues for consideration under five broad ESG 
categories (economic, governance, social, environmental 
and supply chain)
• Reviewed source materials and asked internal stakeholders 
to respond to a survey to assess the level of stakeholder 
concern about each of these issues
• Prioritized the issues based on the level of stakeholder 
concern and the potential impact on the company, and 
validated priorities through individual and group discussions 
with senior managers and subject matter experts
These priorities are listed on the following page. They inform 
our corporate citizenship strategy and goals and our reporting. 
These are our “material topics” as referred to in the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. (These are not the same as 
“material issues” for the purposes of the company’s financial and 
SEC reporting in the United States.)ESG management and governance 
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    9 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index Our ESG priorities
Response to the opioid crisis
• Programs to combat  
opioid epidemic
• Measures to prevent  
drug diversion
• Opioid litigation defense
Ethics and compliance
• Compliance with U.S. and 
international law, including anti-
bribery and anti-corruption laws
• Whistleblower mechanisms
Product quality and safety
• Quality assurance systems
• Compliance with  
regulatory requirements
• Product recalls
• Integrity of distribution systemHuman capital management
• Board, executive and  
employee diversity
• Employee engagement
• Compensation and benefits
• Health and wellness
• Talent attraction and 
development
• Succession planning
Data privacy and security
• Practices governing  
patient-identifiable health 
information (PHI)
• Customer, employee and 
business partner data 
protection and privacy
• Security of information systemsEnvironmental emissions  
and impact
• Climate change and energy use
• Efficient transport and logistics
• Operations facilities 
management
Supply chain management
• Vendor code of conduct
• Supplier diversity
• Supplier ESG issues
“I used to fear change, but  
Cardinal Health lets me feel  
that change is not a threat  
to my comfort: It is my way 
to grow, to serve better and 
to be the best in my current 
position.  I’m no longer scared 
to share ideas that could 
better serve our customers, 
find new ways to grow 
our skills or go outside 
my comfort zone.” 
— Mikki Meneses
Senior Analyst, 
Performance 
Monitoring
Bonifacio Global 
City, Taguig, 
PhilippinesLiving our values Innovative
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    10 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index We place great value on the perspectives of our internal and external stakeholders. 
Understanding their concerns helps us to identify and address key ESG issues. 
Here are some of the ways we engage with our key stakeholders:
• We create a purposeful working environment by providing regular town halls, seminars and leadership panels that 
help us drive diversity and inclusion, talent development and retention, and culture strategies and goals.
• We gauge employee engagement and gather employee feedback through a biennial employee engagement survey 
and more frequent pulse surveys and by connecting with employees at all levels through internal social media sites.
• We communicate with investors to address their questions and feedback on the ESG topics that are significant to them.
• We assess customer satisfaction through periodic surveys, and respond to customer ESG surveys and inquiries.
• We engage partners to improve our sustainable sourcing practices, to increase employee well-being and to hold 
ourselves and our suppliers to high ethical standards.
• We review media and stock analysts’ reports on a broad range of ESG issues.Stakeholder engagement 
“It pays to deliver on promises.   
I fully trust my team, both  
professionally and personally, 
and this provides them 
with freedom to work and 
empowerment to make  
their own decisions. I try  
to engage them as much  
as I can in my decisions  
and value their input.  
You don’t earn trust if you 
don’t give trust.”  
— Florian Schwanert
Senior Director,  
Legal Europe 
and Legal and 
Compliance 
Canada
Hamburg, 
GermanyLiving our values Accountable
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    11 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index Empowering  
             our people
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    12 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index We are committed to building a diverse workforce and an inclusive workplace 
that values the unique perspective and contributions of all of our employees.  
It’s the right thing to do; it’s also the smart thing to do. It helps us improve 
performance, understand our customers better and recruit and retain top talent. 
Inclusive teams outperform non-inclusive and non-diverse teams, and tend  
to create more innovative solutions. 
At Cardinal Health we embrace differences to drive the best outcomes: We believe that leveraging the 
power of D&I gives us a competitive business advantage.Diversity and inclusion
Executives
29% 
Female
25% 
Ethnically diverseManagement  
39% 
Female
23% 
Ethnically diverse (U.S.)Professionals
51% 
Female
27% 
Ethnically diverse (U.S.)Company
50% 
Female
46% 
Ethnically diverse (U.S.)
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    13 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index Disability Advocates Network helps employees 
bring their full selves to work
When Marino Colatruglio joined Cardinal Health in 1995, 
he kept his disability quiet. 
Diagnosed with severe sleep apnea, the Vice President 
of Global Workplace and Corporate Real Estate didn’t 
want anyone to think he might be held back. 
Speaking with family members who also had the  
disease — and getting them on life-saving CPAP 
machines — convinced him to share his own  
challenges with a wider audience. 
“You think a lot of these things will stifle your career,”  
he said. “It certainly hasn’t stifled mine.”
Now, Marino has no problem using his voice and position 
to stand up for Cardinal Health employees with disabilities. 
Alongside Robyn DesJardins, he co-chairs the Disability 
Advocates Network (DAN), whose 420 members are 
committed to making Cardinal Health a more inclusive 
place to work. They host conversations about living with disabilities, provide support for family members of  
those living with disabilities and partner with HR to 
increase the number of employees who self-identify  
as living with a disability. 
Marino said his position in building construction allows 
him to directly improve the working conditions  
of those who might need accommodations. 
He recently oversaw the addition of a gender-neutral 
bathroom at the South campus in Dublin that is large 
enough to accommodate all wheelchair sizes, as well 
as service animals. Cardinal Health fully supported the 
addition, as well as a small pet relief area outside for an 
employee with a service dog. 
Marino hopes more employees feel comfortable asking 
for assistance when needed. He has received nothing but 
positive support from Cardinal Health leadership for DAN 
and employees living with disabilities. 
“I’ve seen a commitment to when there’s an 
accommodation to be made, it’s given without  
question,” he said.Living our values Inclusive
Advocating for inclusivityAwards and recognition
20% by 2020 Women on Boards
Winning ‘W’ Companies
Best Places to Work for LGBTQ Community
Human Rights Campaign
We’ve received a perfect score from the  
Human Rights Campaign for 1 2 years in a row.
Corporate Citizenship Award
Columbus Business First
Excellence in Supplier Diversity Award:  
Prime Supplier of the Year
Western Regional Minority Supplier  
Development Council (WRMSDC)
Top Companies for Executive Women
National Association for Female Executives
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    14 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index With the goal of sharing the company’s deep commitment  
to inclusion, CEO Mike Kaufmann, our Chief Human 
Resources Officer Ola Snow and the D&I Steering Council, 
left, hosted the first Cardinal Health D&I Town Hall to 
discuss what our value “Inclusive” means at Cardinal Health. 
Leaders of the D&I Steering Council shared personal 
anecdotes about difficult situations: being the “only” in a 
room, which can be isolating in ways that others may not 
realize; often facing the presumption that being diverse 
is how one has attained his or her position; the choice a 
woman faces to come out every time someone assumes  
she has a husband; the pressure one feels to prove one’s 
worth as the only person of color at the table.
Mike, Ola and the D&I Steering Council have asked every 
employee to come together to make Cardinal Health the 
place where top talent wants to be. They’ve challenged  
us to make these commitments:
• Consistently challenge unconscious bias from  
ourselves and others
• Embrace, encourage, share and respect  
human differences
• Attract, recruit, hire, develop, empower, mentor  
and engage the best talent
Melissa Laber  
Chair, SVP ,  
OptiFreight® 
Logistics
Preety Sidhu  
Vice Chair,  
VP , Marketing 
Management 
Shane 
Abeyratne  
V P,   
Multi-Function 
Management
Ben Brinker  
SVP , GMMichelle  Britt  
VP , Territory 
Sales
Snehal  Desai  
VP , IT 
Management
Emily  Gallo  
VP , Product 
and Solutions 
Marketing
Sean  Halligan  
SVP , Pharma 
Supply Chain 
Operations Stu Kim  
VP , Associate  
General 
Counsel
Bekki  Kidd  
SVP , Global 
Logistics 
 
Travis  Leonard  
SVP , Finance
Jessie  Lian  
VP , Country 
ManagementTalvis  Love  
S V P,  
Pharmaceutical 
Segment IT
Mariela  
Martinez  
VP , IT Business  
Partner EMEA
Mike  Pintek  
SVP , Customer 
Operations 
and Business 
Development
Stephanie  
Revish  
VP , Financial 
Planning  
and AnalysisCEO Mike Kaufmann created the D&I Steering Council to help change internal conversations about diversity and 
inclusion. Council members, all senior leaders of the company, are charged with identifying and discussing barriers 
to D&I across the company, challenging the status quo and empowering change.
D&I Steering Council
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    15 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index To provide leadership around all of these commitments, the D&I Steering 
Council works closely with senior executives and with our Chief Diversity 
Officer and Vice President of D&I, Devray Kirkland. Devray counsels teams 
across the enterprise on strategies to attract, retain and promote a diverse 
workforce. He also works closely with our Employee Resource Groups 
(ERGs), employee-driven groups organized around a shared interest or a 
common diversity dimension.
Our ERGs are aligned with the Cardinal Health mission and values to help 
foster an inclusive and engaging workforce. They help develop future 
leaders, expand marketplace reach and partner with nonprofits through 
volunteerism and fundraising. 
We currently have seven ERGs, each sponsored and supported by one of 
our senior executives:
Many of our ERGs have chapters around the world. Several locations have 
established Multicultural Councils to keep employees engaged on multiple 
issues of diversity and inclusion. • African American Network
• Asian Pacific American Network
• Disability Advocates Network
• ¡HOLA! • PROUD
• Veterans and Military Advocates
• Women’s Initiative Network
Clockwise from top: African American Network (AAN) volunteers served more than 2,000 central Ohio families 
through the annual Christmas Cares/Unions Share event at St. Stephens Community House; Disability Advocates 
Network (DAN) members volunteering at Muscular Dystrophy Association summer camp in Ashley, Ohio;  
the El Paso chapter of ¡HOLA! hosting a Hispanic Heritage celebration; Employees across the U.S. packed and 
donated more than 4,000 sundry packs for homeless vets in support of the annual Operation Support Our Heroes, 
sponsored by the Veterans and Military Advocates (VMA).
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    16 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index For 12 consecutive years, Cardinal Health has  
received a score of 100% on the Human Rights 
Campaign Foundation’s Corporate Equality Index,  
the United States’ premier benchmarking report  
on corporate policies and practices related to  
LGBTQ workplace equality.
The nearly 700 members of our PROUD ERG help us 
foster this kind of award-winning environment, where 
LGBTQ employees feel valued and able to bring 
100% of themselves to work every day. PROUD has 
established strategies to achieve four goals:
• Attract new employees:  Being visible in the local 
LGBTQ+ community and building the reputation of 
Cardinal Health as an employer of choice.
• Develop employees:  Providing networking 
opportunities, learning and speaker sessions and 
access to executives.
• Help retain employees: Providing meaningful 
volunteer and charity opportunities and advocating 
for policies that promote an inclusive environment.• Help our business connect with our communities 
and customers:  Participating in events such as local 
Pride festivals.
PROUD and its goals are endorsed and supported by 
senior executives of the company, who are frequent 
speakers at PROUD events. Last year, CHRO Ola Snow, 
CEO of the Medical Segment Steve Mason and other 
leaders were invited to speak at the annual Out &  
Equal Workplace Summit. The Summit is a gathering  
of more than 3,000 business leaders, ERG groups and 
other employees designed to share and spread best 
practices. The Cardinal Health team led a workshop  
on ERG rebranding.   
In June, CEO Mike Kaufmann, Ola and Steve hosted 
the annual Pride flag-raising ceremony at our Dublin 
headquarters; the Cardinal Health logo was redrawn 
in the colors of the Pride flag for the month. Ninety 
additional Cardinal Health sites across the country and 
outside the U.S. also hosted flag-raising ceremonies and 
flew the Pride flag throughout the month of June.PROUD Employee Resource Group
Clockwise from top: Flag 
raising at Cardinal Health 
International Philippines 
(CHIP); flag raising at Dublin 
headquarters; Columbus, 
Ohio, Pride paradeLiving our values Inclusive
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    17 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index We know that when 
our employees thrive, 
they bring their best to 
work, home and their 
communities. Here are 
some of the ways we 
support their physical, 
mental and financial 
well-being.Employee well-being
Our U.S. benefits program includes:
• Medical, dental and vision care coverage
• Paid time off plan
• Healthcare flexible spending account, a 
pre-tax benefit account to use for eligible 
medical, dental and vision care expenses  
that aren’t covered by health insurance 
• Short- and long-term disability coverage
• Basic life insurance
• Business travel insurance
• LiveandWorkWell, an Employee Assistance 
Program (EAP) that offers support tools, 
including resources to cope with  
anxiety, financial coaching and other  
well-being services
• Adoption assistance
• Tuition reimbursement• Healthy lifestyles programs
• Paid parental leave
• Domestic partner benefits
Well-being benefits:
• Biometric screenings
• Health assessments
• Health coaching
• Heath advisor services
• Tobacco cessation programs
• International fitness club membership discounts
• Free subscription to meditation app
Financial benefits:
• 401(k) savings plan with company match
• Online educational programs focused on 
such topics as budgeting, saving, credit  
and planning for collegeAdditional work-life benefits:
• Backup childcare/  
eldercare services
• College coaching
• Special needs programs
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    18 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index This financial wellness podcast highlights benefits 
available to help Cardinal Health employees and their 
families achieve personal financial goals. 
The podcast was the brainchild of employee Melissa 
Dippold, Benefits Consultant, who teamed up with 
a seasoned podcast producer and financial wellness 
expert from BCU, the credit union at our corporate 
headquarters, to create “Wings for your wallet.”
Each episode focuses on one finance-related topic, 
including health savings accounts, 401(k) plans, setting 
a budget, veterans’ benefits, defeating debt, buying a 
home, caring for aging parents, student loans and more.
The podcast series, now in its second year, is popular 
with employees. Last year, there were more than  
24,000 listens, and the co-hosts are regularly invited  
to hold live recordings for employee audiences. 
Comments from listeners include “pretty cool stuff,” 
“excellent” and “very informative.”“The podcast is always fun to record, and we 
laugh a lot. Every time, I learn something to 
improve my own personal financial situation. 
And helping our employees do the same is very 
fulfilling — both personally and professionally.”
— Melissa Dippold
Benefits ConsultantThrough LiveandWorkWell, our EAP , employees and their 
households have free, 24/7 access to licensed mental 
health professionals for consultation, information, help and 
resources on a variety of mental health issues, including 
depression, anxiety, substance use disorder and stress. In 
the U.S., we offer a free subscription to an online platform 
that provides guided meditation. In FY19, we offered a two-
day course on mindfulness, compassion and empathy.
Employees also have access to health coaches to achieve 
their goals in a number of areas, including healthy eating 
and fitness. They can choose to compete against other 
employees in virtual health and wellness challenges to 
earn discounts on their medical premiums.
Our compensation policies help attract top talent and 
provide equal opportunities. We recently increased our 
401(k) match two years in a row — a benefit available 
to all U.S. employees. Furthering our long-standing 
commitment to pay equity, in FY19 we established a fair 
pay committee to analyze pay equity and compensation 
practices throughout our organization. 
Our employees get other supports, too, including help 
with daycare, eldercare, accessing community resources 
and financial education on everything from buying a first 
home to saving for college to retirement planning. Wings for your wallet
Living our values Accountable
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    19 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index From pharmaceutical distribution and medical supply manufacturing 
to supply chain management and warehouse operations, and from 
informational technology to nuclear pharmacy and much more,  
we offer a dynamic work environment where tens of thousands of 
people can grow to their fullest professional and personal potential.
Ongoing training and mentoring helps employees continue to learn and grow.  
Some of the opportunities we offer for continuous learning include:
• Mentoring across the organization
• Leadership development programs 
• Internal courses on such topics as  
driving change and becoming a 
competent leader • Tuition reimbursement 
• Career planning 
• Awards that recognize  
outstanding achievement
Our approach to talent management incorporates skill assessments, performance appraisals 
and career pathing. During FY19, 100% of eligible employees participated in our annual 
performance management process and worked with their managers to create talent profiles 
and development plans to support their career goals. Throughout the year, employees  
have quarterly check-ins with their managers to get feedback and continue to discuss  
career development. Career development
Clockwise from top left: Participants in 
our EMERGE leadership development 
program celebrate the end of their 
three-year program; the 2018 Cohort 
of the LEAD, INNOVATE and INSPIRE 
leadership development programs 
celebrate their graduation; summer 
interns participate in an onsite work fair; 
Cardinal Health mentor and mentee 
participate in a coaching session.
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    20 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index Puerto Rico team finds innovative, cost-effective 
update to workstations 
When Cardinal Health employees in Puerto Rico needed 
to replace aging workstations, they found an innovative, 
security-conscious solution that was also extremely  
cost-effective. 
A team composed of staff from Client Systems 
Engineering, Puerto Rico Regional Client Support (RCS), 
IT Service Center and Information Security worked 
together to find the answer: Raspberry Pi.
A low cost, credit-card sized computer that plugs into a 
computer monitor and uses a standard keyboard and 
mouse, the Raspberry Pi matches the capabilities of a 
desktop computer. 
The lower price tag — it starts at $35 — was a  
significant decrease from the $700 needed to  
build a complete workstation. “As a technology team, we have to be on the 
lookout for new avenues to do things that 
will allow us to be cost efficient and give us 
greater benefits. In the case of the Raspberry Pi 
project, that is the vision: being able to replace 
obsolete technology with new technology at a 
fraction of the cost.”
— Liza Robles, IT Service Center SupervisorWe provide both job-specific training and broader  
leadership training and development opportunities.  
Across all businesses and functions, employees  
averaged 12 hours of training during FY19.
Every two years we conduct an employee engagement 
survey to help identify internal strengths and opportunities 
throughout the enterprise. Managers at all levels use the 
survey results to create action plans to address areas of 
improvement within their teams. 
We also benchmark results against other high-performance 
companies and across various industries, including 
distribution and warehousing, manufacturing and 
pharmaceutical. In FY19, 88% of our employees participated 
in the survey, in line with high-performance companies. 
Sustainable engagement measured at 83%, very close to 
that of high-performance companies and significantly higher 
than the distribution and warehousing, manufacturing and 
pharmaceuticals benchmarks. 
Living our values Innovative
Decoding new solutions
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    21 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index In FY19, we launched Leading the Cardinal Health Way training globally 
to provide a shared language for expectations of leaders and to enhance 
leaders’ skills in coaching, providing feedback and developing trust. 
About 95% of our new managers have been through the training. 
Leading the Cardinal Health Way is part of a broader initiative to grow and develop our 
leaders. We have married our internal program with Franklin Covey’s full suite of leadership 
development programs, including six critical practices of leading a team. By the end of  
FY20, we expect to have developed close to 1,000 people leaders globally through this 
industry- leading program.
We identify those individuals with the greatest potential to become senior leaders as 
“enterprise-owned talent” and develop individualized plans for their experiential growth,  
taking full advantage of the breadth of our enterprise.
Our board of directors and its Human Resources and Compensation Committee are actively 
engaged in our talent management program. Our Human Resources leadership and the full 
board hold a formal succession planning and talent review session each year to identify internal 
candidates with desired leadership skills, key capabilities and experience based on our current 
and evolving business and strategic direction. The Human Resources and Compensation 
Committee oversees succession planning for the CEO and other senior executives, and 
management provides an organizational update at each quarterly committee meeting. Planning for future leadership
Top: Graduating class 
of INSPIRE, a leadership 
development program for 
high potential employees that 
focuses on driving a more 
agile culture. Left: The 2018 
Cohort of the LEAD, INNOVATE 
and INSPIRE leadership 
development programs 
celebrate their graduation with 
Victor Crawford, CEO of our 
pharmaceutical segment and 
Executive Sponsor of LEAD.
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    22 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index Our Global Human Rights and Labor Standards state that we strive to conduct our business in a manner that demonstrates  
respect for human rights and the dignity of all people, and have the following principles, among others: 
• Diversity and inclusion:  Our Standards of Business Conduct 
articulate our commitment to an inclusive and diverse workforce. 
• Fair treatment:  We have a harassment and bullying prevention 
policy that addresses the rules and guidelines in place to provide a 
workplace that is free from harassment and discrimination of any kind. 
• Freedom from forced labor: We will not use or engage in any form 
of coerced, bonded, indentured or prison labor. All work is voluntary, 
and employees are free to leave or terminate their employment in 
accordance with laws and regulations and without fear of physical, 
psychological, sexual or verbal abuse. We will not require employees 
to lodge “deposits” of their identity papers nor permit employment 
agencies and labor brokers to charge recruitment fees to employees.
• Hours of labor: We require that working hours are consistent with 
laws and regulations and are not otherwise excessive. • Fair compensation:  We comply with minimum wage, overtime and 
maximum hour rules that are established by laws and regulations. 
• Free of child labor:  We do not allow child labor in our operations.
• Workplace well-being and environment: We support the well-
being of our employees by offering programs and benefits that help 
employees to be safe, healthy, satisfied and engaged at work, and we 
maintain healthy, clean and safe work environments. We will not utilize 
mental or physical disciplinary practices.
• Immigration law compliance: We comply with immigration laws 
and regulations and only employ workers with a legal right to work. 
• Freedom of association: We respect the freedom of association. Global human rights and labor standards 
Learn more: 
• Global human rights 
and labor standards » 
• Equal employment 
opportunity/ 
nondiscrimination » 
• Harassment and 
bullying prevention » 
• Employment of minors » 
• Modern slavery 
statement » 
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    23 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index Cardinal Health Orchestra performs for those without access to live music
Since 1997 , the Cardinal Health Orchestra has trumpeted music education and general 
goodwill to Cardinal Health employees, retirement communities and schools around 
central Ohio. 
The orchestra presents two performances at the Dublin headquarters each year. 
Most other concerts are performed for those who might not have easy access to  
live musical performances. 
In May 2019, the 55-member group played its film soundtrack show — featuring music 
from “Star Trek,” “Pirates of the Caribbean” and “Wonder Woman,” among others — for the 
students at Colerain Elementary School, many of whom are living with severe disabilities. 
Micah Rubenstein, the orchestra’s current conductor and an instructional designer in the 
Learning and Development Center of Excellence, said the show affected the musicians as 
much as the children. 
“These kids are so pure and immediate with their emotions,” he said. “I have my back to 
them most of the time, but I’m looking at the orchestra members and occasionally some 
of them are in tears.”The orchestra played 14 shows in 2019 — all of 
them free. Rubenstein said the musicians, a mix 
of Cardinal Health employees and community 
members, do it all for the love of music. 
“It fits in really well with the mission  
of Cardinal Health. Bringing music  
to people is bringing healthy things  
to them.”  
— Micah Rubenstein
Instructional Design and Development ConsultantMission-driven music
Living our values Mission driven
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    24 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index Ensuring the safety and security of our 
people is our priority every day. Our 
environment, health and safety (EHS)  
team works with our operations and real 
estate teams to keep workspaces safe 
around the globe. Our EHS management 
system is designed to mitigate risk and 
prevent work-related illnesses, injuries  
and environmental incidents:
• We provide comprehensive EHS courses to train 
operations employees, including supervisors and 
managers, on identifying, correcting, avoiding and 
preventing job-related hazards. 
• We routinely perform industrial hygiene sampling to 
ensure workers using chemicals and those who work 
in noisy areas are properly protected. Ensuring a safe 
workplace
 Tiffanie Rowe is likely the first person you would see if you 
were to visit our distribution center in Charlotte, N.C. Tiffanie 
welcomes colleagues and visitors as they arrive on site, trains 
new hires as the new employee orientation coordinator, 
manages billing and some HR functions, and serves as the 
facility’s Healthy Lifestyles champion.  
She is also one of our most enthusiastic Kindness 
Champions, a group of volunteers who have been building 
and spreading our Global Kindness Campaign.
When we launched the campaign last year, Tiffanie said: 
“I think Cardinal Health is such a pioneer in culture and 
community engagement and in embracing diversity. 
Kindness is a part of all of these.” She sees the Kindness 
Campaign as a way to build on the company’s culture of 
kindness and spread it more broadly. 
“The workplace needs more determined kindness,” she said. 
“The campaign has inspired me to search for ways to be kind 
every day, to put myself out there to everyone I come across 
by engaging them in more than just a greeting. I don’t want 
just to be kind — I want to be determined in my kindness.”  As a Kindness Champion, 
Tiffanie actively participates 
in monthly Champions 
meetings focused on 
spreading the campaign, joins 
in brainstorming sessions 
and makes intentional acts of 
kindness part of her everyday 
work: taking freezer pops 
to people working outside on hot summer days, offering 
hot chocolate to colleagues on cold mornings and leaving 
kind notes on desks when no one is looking. Her “Kindness 
Containers,” packed with snacks and sundries and labeled 
with the message, “Enjoy your snacks; pass the kindness 
along,” have made their way to colleagues across the country. 
“Kindness sets the tone of every interaction, even when 
things are difficult. How you act determines the way people 
feel when they walk away from you,” said Tiffanie. “I have 
benefited so many times from others’ acts of kindness to 
me. I feel truly blessed to have the opportunity to pass 
kindness along to others.” The best kind of care
Living our values Mission driven
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    25 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index • We provide incident analysis training that offers a  
uniform approach to determine root causes and  
develop mitigation actions. 
• We partner with a global leader in contractor  
safety programs to enhance contractor compliance  
and risk mitigation. 
Ergonomics:  Cardinal Health has a long-standing partnership 
with a globally recognized ergonomics firm that assesses and 
improves how work gets done, reducing the risk of injuries. 
We’ve also invested in motion capture, an advanced ergonomic 
module that simplifies ergonomic assessment by automating 
the collection of body posture data. Though still new, we 
expect that motion capture will result in more accurate risk 
assessments and more effective solutions.
We worked with The Ohio State University Spine Research 
Institute to develop an Ergonomics Best Practices Guide for 
our medical distribution centers (DC). Experts from the OSU 
Spine Research Institute visited multiple DCs to observe work 
processes and gather other information. The resulting guide 
includes solutions that individual DCs have implemented, as 
well as solutions that have been found to work across the 
industry. The guide will be used to continually improve work 
efficiency and reduce potential injuries. We recently launched an internal train-the-trainer ergonomic 
program that prepares our employees to facilitate ergonomic 
workshops (previously conducted by consultants). This 
standardized training has increased five-fold the number of 
employees trained. 
Machinery:  We use software to develop machine-specific 
lockout and tagout procedures at our manufacturing plants, 
nuclear pharmacies and distribution centers. The software 
standardizes and simplifies the development of procedures 
and can track employees’ use of the procedures. 
Data management: We’ve recently invested in a new  
EHS and Sustainability data management system to 
collect, analyze and report key performance data about 
injuries and illness; environmental, security and property 
damage incidents; and external reporting of U.S. workers’ 
compensation claims. The platform also helps us manage 
industrial hygiene survey data and perform internal 
inspections and audits.We take all appropriate measures to prevent incidents and  
accidents from happening in our workplaces. These 
investments in EHS are a step toward building a healthier future.
These are standard Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) calculations 
used to evaluate and quantify a company’s safety performance. 
Cardinal Health operates many warehouses, distribution centers and other industrial 
work environments. According to U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (2018), Warehouse & 
Storage (NAICS 4931) has an average TRIR of 5.1 injuries per 100 full-time employees. 
Since FY09, we have reduced our TRIR 59%.Global occupational injury/illness data FY18 FY19
Rates
Total recordable incident rate (TRIR) 1.36 1.47
Lost time incident rate (LTIR) 0.51 0.55
Days away from work, days of restricted work, 
and/or days of jobs transfer (DART)1.02 1.16
First aid case rate 3.09 3.02
Fatalities
Fatalities — employee 0 0
Fatalities — contractor 0 0
Other
Total reported near misses 1,703 1,881
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    26 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index Creating value for our  
    customers and our partners
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    27 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index Cardinal Health is a globally integrated 
healthcare services and products company;  
we are one of the few companies in healthcare 
providing both the pharmaceutical and 
medical solutions that help our customers  
give their patients the care they need. We provide innovative products and customized solutions 
for hospitals, healthcare systems, pharmacies, ambulatory 
surgery centers, clinical laboratories and physician offices. 
We offer medical products, pharmaceuticals and cost-
effective solutions that make the supply chain safer, more 
secure and more efficient. We connect patients, providers, 
payors, pharmacists and manufacturers for integrated care coordination and better patient management. We help 
hospitals, health networks and alternate sites of care identify 
and successfully pursue opportunities to improve patient 
outcomes, drive efficiencies and reduce costs.
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    28 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index Through our pharmaceutical business, 
we deliver high-quality, cost-efficient 
pharmaceuticals to more than 100,000 
providers in the U.S. every day.
We distribute branded and generic pharmaceutical and over-
the-counter healthcare and consumer products to retailers, 
including chain and independent drug stores and pharmacy 
departments of supermarkets and mass merchandisers, 
hospitals and other healthcare providers.
We operate nuclear pharmacies and cyclotron facilities 
that manufacture molecular imaging biomarkers that aid 
in the early diagnosis, monitoring and treatment of cancer, 
neurological disorders and heart disease. 
We provide pharmacy management services to hospitals 
along with medication therapy management, telepharmacy 
and health messaging services and operate pharmacies in community health centers. By improving the coordination 
of manufacturers, payors, pharmacies and patients, we help 
improve patient care.
We offer an extensive portfolio of limited distribution drugs, 
plasma derivatives and other specialty pharmaceuticals for 
hospitals, specialty physician practices, specialty pharmacies 
and alternate sites of care. As one of the largest specialty 
healthcare supply chains in the U.S. with long-standing 
relationships with leading group purchasing organizations 
and decades of experience delivering specialty drugs, we 
simplify the delivery of these specialty products. 
We also provide services to pharmaceutical manufacturers, 
including distribution, inventory management, data reporting, 
new product launch support and chargeback administration. Our Pharmaceutical segment 
“Innovation is not always about coming 
up with a new idea. You can be innovative 
on a day-to-day basis. For me, 
changing the game means 
whatever game I am playing, 
and the rules I am playing 
by, tomorrow it can be 
better. If you experiment, 
break things and even fail, 
you can come away with a 
deeper understanding 
of things .”
— Snehal Desai
VP , IT Management
Dublin, Ohio, U.S.Living our values Innovative
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    29 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index Anti-diversion: Addressing the opioid epidemic
We care deeply about the opioid epidemic and take seriously our commitment, in 
cooperation with other participants in the prescription drug supply chain, to find and 
support solutions to this national challenge.
As a distributor and an intermediary in the supply chain, we provide a secure channel to 
deliver all kinds of medications from the hundreds of manufacturers that make them to 
our thousands of hospital and pharmacy customers licensed to dispense them to their 
patients, and we work diligently to identify, stop and report to regulators any suspicious 
orders of controlled substances.
We carefully evaluate pharmacies before they become customers, including taking steps 
to understand their business and historical prescription drug ordering patterns. Controlled 
substance orders pass through our order monitoring system, which tracks orders against 
statistical benchmarks for signs of potential diversion. If an order exceeds our benchmarks, 
we cancel the order and report it to the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) and 
any applicable state regulators. We also have a team of experienced investigators who 
regularly conduct customer site visits, both announced and unannounced. 
Our board of directors’ Ad Hoc Committee of independent directors assists the board in 
overseeing our response to the opioid epidemic. The committee meets twice per quarter 
and engages with the full board on opioid-related issues at every board meeting.In October 2019, we agreed in principle with four state attorneys general from a multi-
state task force to a global settlement framework, designed to resolve all pending and 
future opioid lawsuits and claims by states and political subdivisions. 
With the commitment of both funds and distribution of treatment medication, this 
settlement framework would help get needed resources to the communities that need 
them most. We remain committed to being part of the solution to this epidemic, and 
we are committed to the settlement framework. We continue to be actively involved in 
its progression.
The settlement framework calls for cash payments by Cardinal Health to the states and 
political subdivisions of up to $5.56 billion over 18 years, free or rebated distribution 
of opioid abuse treatment medications for 10 years and industry-wide changes to be 
specified to controlled substance anti-diversion programs. The framework is subject to 
contingencies and uncertainties as to final terms but is the basis for our negotiation of 
definitive terms and documentation. 
Learn more:
• Board engagement »
• Combating opioid misuse »
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    30 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index Through our medical business, we manufacture, source and develop our own medical, 
surgical and laboratory products under the Cardinal Health brand — a comprehensive 
offering of cost-efficient products that help providers improve the bottom line while 
delivering high-quality care. 
The Cardinal Health brand includes cardiovascular products, wound care products, fluid suction and collection systems, 
electrode products, single-use surgical drapes, gowns and apparel — and much more. These products are sold directly 
or through third-party distributors in the U.S., Canada, Europe, Asia and other markets.
The Medical segment also distributes a broad range of medical, surgical and laboratory products known as national 
brand products, and provides supply chain services and solutions to hospitals, ambulatory surgery centers, clinical 
laboratories and other healthcare providers in the U.S. and Canada.  
Through Cardinal Health at-Home Solutions, our medical segment also distributes medical products to patients’  
homes throughout the U.S.Our Medical segment 
Living our values Mission driven
“If you believe in healthcare, in taking care 
of customers the right way and 
helping them with their 
supply journey,  the 
cultural fit and 
values here are  
spot-on .”
— Lindsay Konopka 
2019 Founder’s Award 
honoree
Manager, Product and 
Solutions Marketing
Twinsburg, Ohio, U.S.
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    31 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index Patient safety and product quality are foundational to our business.  
Our safety and quality policies and procedures guide us through the 
process of manufacturing, distribution and marketing.
Our quality policy affirms our commitment to patient safety and to providing products and 
services that meet or exceed the expectations of our customers. We maintain and continually 
improve a sustainable quality management system that meets regulatory requirements and 
establishes a culture of engagement and participation — our employees are driven by the 
highest quality objectives.
Quality management system: Our quality management system is built on the requirements 
and guiding principles of patient and user safety, regulatory compliance and continuous 
improvement. We implement quality procedures that take into account the regulatory 
requirements for the markets worldwide where we manufacture or distribute products. We 
track quality performance in our businesses and within our sites with metrics that are regularly 
reviewed at sites, in management review meetings and as part of our goal-setting process. Product quality training: Cardinal Health employees responsible for product quality are 
trained in current good manufacturing practices. Non-manufacturing teams receive product 
training, including regulatory and quality standards, as appropriate.
Measuring and monitoring effectiveness:  We conduct internal audits to verify that our 
global quality system conforms to internal and external requirements and is effectively 
implemented and maintained. Worldwide health authorities also review our performance 
to ensure quality and compliance. During FY19, we had more than 300 external regulatory 
inspections across all our businesses.
Quality certifications and standards: We maintain certification to global industry standards 
and have achieved independent quality certifications across our operations. More than 100 
of our manufacturing, distribution and other operating facilities are certified to ISO 13485:2016 
(Medical Devices — Quality Management Systems) standards.Patient safety and product quality
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    32 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index Corrective actions:  We maintain corrective and preventive 
action (CAPA) systems that assist us in investigating actual 
or potential product quality or safety issues to find root 
causes and prevent occurrences or recurrences. We initiate 
corrective actions (such as product advisories, field actions or 
recalls) as necessary to help ensure quality and safety issues 
are quickly and effectively addressed. We had no Class I 
recalls and no FDA Warning Letters during FY19.
Product materials restrictions: Our global strategies and 
programs help to ensure that we meet product materials 
restrictions, including the EU RoHS2 Directive, EU REACH 
Regulation and others. As part of our product quality reviews, 
we consult several lists, including California Proposition 65,  
EU Medical Devices Regulation, EU REACH Substances of  
Very High Concern, EU RoHS and Montreal Protocol on 
Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer.Supplier quality assurance: We have supplier quality 
programs for the materials and components used in the 
products that we self-manufacture and the selection, 
qualification and oversight of suppliers that manufacture 
products on our behalf. These programs focus on patient 
safety and regulatory compliance. 
Controls such as quality system audits and CAPAs are designed 
to provide assurance that the facilities manufacturing the 
materials or components that we procure have quality systems 
in place, so that final product complies with our specifications 
and adheres to regulatory requirements. We conduct routine 
quality audits of suppliers as required by law. 
“Our focus is always on the 
patient: We make sure we 
produce quality products 
that meet their needs. 
Everything we do 
at Cardinal Health 
needs to serve the 
greater goal  
of healthcare .”
— Thomas Gonchar 
Senior Principal Engineer, 
Research and Development
Santa Clara, Calif., U.S.Living our values Mission driven
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    33 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index An innovative Cardinal Health product helped sustain a premature baby during 
months of intensive care 
Little Nene Kinjo’s survival was uncertain. Born at just 22 weeks, she weighed only  
half a pound (261 grams). 
“The situation did not look good, but we would of course do our utmost and provide 
any treatment to save her,” said Haruka Arakaki, one of the baby’s primary doctors in the 
Perinatal Medical Center at Okinawa Chubu Hospital in Okinawa, Japan. 
The baby required seven months of intensive care during which the hospital staff sent 
the infant’s parents constant updates on her progress and monthly “birthday” cards. 
Key to Nene’s survival was the use of the Argyle™ PI Catheter Kit, a Japan-specific  
product designed and produced by the Cardinal Health team in our Fukuroi plant.
“I was really worried at first, but the advancements in medicine  
were impressive. Be it the devices, the physicians, the nurses —  
everyone was amazing.”
— Katsutoshi Kinjo
Nene’s fatherNene’s mother 
Mayumi Kinjo 
went into 
every hospital 
visit with a 
giant grin, 
belying her 
worry for the 
tiny baby. 
“The baby 
might be able 
to sense that 
something was wrong if the mother was crying every day while the child was doing her 
best,” she explained. “Therefore, I decided to always smile when I was with her.”
Now nearly 3, Nene is a lively toddler who keeps her parents’ hands full. 
“I hope she grows up and becomes a gentle child, though she’s nowhere near that right 
now,” Mayumi Kinjo said with a laugh. “I would like to raise her to become a friendly and 
kind girl.”Community effort grows new lifeLiving our values Innovative
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    34 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index The safety and security of our nation’s 
pharmaceutical supply is among our highest 
priorities. A safe and reliable supply is critical 
to the health and well-being of patients and 
central to our customers’ businesses. 
Our pharmaceutical distribution procedures are designed to 
comply with the U.S. Drug Supply Chain Security Act (DSCSA). 
Before we receive pharmaceuticals, we conduct a licensing 
check to make sure the product comes from an entity 
authorized to distribute prescription pharmaceuticals.
We visually inspect products for signs of tampering or any 
indications that the products are suspect. If we discover 
illegitimate product, we notify our trading partners, the  
U.S. Food and Drug Administration and other regulatory 
bodies as required. In 2018, as a requirement of the DSCSA, manufacturers began 
placing a unique product identifier on every pharmaceutical 
package and case. Beginning in 2023, we will electronically 
track product at the individual package level with this product 
identifier. Transaction data will be exchanged through a secure, 
interoperable and electronic system to further minimize the 
threat of counterfeit product entering the supply chain.
Beyond our compliance procedures for counterfeit product, 
security measures designed to ensure the safety of our 
deliveries and of the people involved in the deliveries include:
• Strategically implementing GPS units on routes to customer 
delivery locations in the U.S.
• Hiring regional couriers to make deliveries in unmarked 
vehicles with tinted windows
• Auditing courier depots and deliveries to customers
• Regularly reviewing crime data to determine our highest 
risk areas
• Varying delivery times, per customer requests, to avoid a 
predictable daily deliverySupply security
“As a Customer Service Representative — 
one of the company’s ‘front-liners’ — 
I make it a point that before I end 
the call with our customers, they 
get the quality service they deserve. 
For me, taking ownership  
and accountability for each 
customer is living our 
employee promise:  
I am Essential to care .™”
— Emmanuel Maniquis II
Rep II, Customer Service 
Operations
Bonifacio Global City,  
Taguig, PhilippinesLiving our values Accountable
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    35 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index We operate a centralized, around-the-clock security 
operations and intelligence center so that suspicious 
events can be reported, tracked and responded to quickly.
In accordance with applicable agreements, we follow 
manufacturers’ specific instructions to ensure the safe 
distribution of their products (including products that  
may be used for lethal injections).
Cardinal Health employee delivers emergency 
supplies during massive storm
When Tropical Depression Imelda dropped historic rainfall 
on southeast Texas last fall, flash flooding closed many 
roads and highways. Customers were unable to receive 
product shipments, and patients were unable to access 
lifesaving medications. 
That’s when Diego Armendariz, a 20-year Cardinal Health 
employee at the Houston Enclave Facility, leapt into action.
After hearing that two hospitals needed emergency 
orders within 24 hours, he volunteered to deliver the 
products in his personal high-water vehicle, one of the 
few that could navigate roads after the storm dumped  
43 inches of rain within 24 hours.
Diego, along with co-pilot and Warehouse Supervisor 
Farheen Momin, were able to successfully transport the 
medication in time. Their travels even included a quick 
stop to pick up Cardinal Health Sales Representative  
Kyle Benson, who was stranded at a hotel.
Diego knows he is part of a team focused on customer 
service and patient care. “In the 20 years I’ve been at Cardinal Health, I’ve 
seen countless teammates step forward to make 
sure we take care of the customer so that they 
can care for the patient. I was just the last link 
in a long chain of Cardinal Health employees 
who stepped forward to stock shelves, answer 
customer calls, pick-pack and ship, and countless 
other contributions all to ensure that the right 
patient got the right meds at the right time.”
— Diego Armendariz
Director, Strategic Sourcing, National BrandsA flood of compassion
Living our values Accountable
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    36 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index We have a critical obligation to protect the privacy of the patients who use our products,  
and to protect our information and systems and those of our business partners. 
Our policies and processes are designed to comply with the laws that govern the collection, use and management of 
patient-identifiable health information and other sensitive personal and financial information in the countries where we do 
business. These laws include the U.S. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) and, since 2018, 
the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). 
We regularly conduct information security and privacy audits domestically and internationally, including HIPAA audits 
and third-party information technology vendor risk assessments. We also conduct practice cyber tabletop and wargame 
exercises to prepare for potential incidents. We conduct phishing awareness campaigns and tests and penetration testing 
at regular intervals throughout the year. We employ multi-factor authentication for more sensitive areas.
We build employee awareness of information security and privacy issues through regular training and engagement, 
including annual HIPAA training for all U.S. employees with computer access and annual cybersecurity training for all 
employees with computer access. We have begun GDPR training for all employees with access to personal information  
in the European Union.
We report incidents involving loss or inappropriate access of data as required by law.Privacy and data protection
“When I’m out and I have my 
Cardinal Health shirt or jacket 
on, I wear it like a badge of 
honor. I know I’m being 
depended on.  It’s not just 
about a paycheck. We’re 
actually doing something to 
save people’s lives.”
— Doug White 
Outbound Coordinator
Groveport, Ohio, U.S. Living our values Accountable
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    37 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index Cardinal Health does business with more than 20,000 
direct and indirect suppliers in the U.S. and many others 
around the world. In FY19, we spent approximately  
$144 billion with our suppliers.
All suppliers are required to comply with our vendor code of conduct, 
which addresses compliance with the law, labor practices and human rights, 
EHS standards, data protection, promotion and sale of our products and 
interactions with healthcare professionals and customers.
For products that we sell to the U.K. National Health Service, we are Labour 
Standards Assurance System (LSAS) Level 3 compliant. LSAS includes policies 
and procedures, a labor standard supply chain risk assessment, employee 
awareness training and continuous improvement. We have a cross-
functional team that maintains our LSAS program and integrates it with 
other sustainable sourcing and manufacturing work.
We are enhancing ESG compliance policies and procedures for suppliers  
of our self-manufactured and sourced medical products.We have completed supplier sustainability risk assessments and prioritized 
supplier engagement based on inherent country and category risks, 
material priorities and business impact.
We are developing processes for risk assessments and plan to begin 
soliciting self-assessment questionnaires first and, later, conduct on-site 
audits. We will initially focus on suppliers with the highest inherent risk 
for human rights and labor standards, EHS and business ethics issues and 
expect to expand the program to cover additional suppliers in the future.Sourcing responsibly
Learn more: 
• Vendor code  
of conduct » 
• Conflict minerals 
policy » 
• Diverse supplier 
inclusion policy »
• Global human 
rights policy » 
• Modern slavery 
statement »
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    38 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index Our customers expect us to be inclusive; our 
government and many of our private-sector 
businesses require it. Maintaining a diverse 
supplier base spurs competition, generates 
innovative thinking and facilitates the exchange 
of ideas that have the potential to produce 
value-added solutions. 
We develop and foster strategic business relationships with 
large and small businesses owned, operated and controlled 
by ethnic minorities, women, LGBTQ people and veterans,  
as well as with HUBZone-certified businesses.  
Cardinal Health maintains membership and collaborates  
with advocacy groups who certify and develop small and 
diverse businesses. We also participate in and sponsor  
various networking and outreach events which provide 
Cardinal Health the opportunity to share key program 
objectives, best practices and sourcing opportunities  
with diverse suppliers. We develop and mentor diverse businesses under the 
National Minority Supplier Development Council Centers  
of Excellence (COE) program and Federal Government 
Mentor-Protégé program.Supplier diversity
“At Cardinal Health, we want you to bring 
all of who you are. Diversity of thought 
breeds innovation, creation 
and creativity  — and 
that’s what we really want 
as an organization. If we 
want to grow and evolve, 
we’re all going to learn 
from one another.” 
— Devray Kirkland
VP , Diversity & Inclusion  
Chief Diversity Officer
Dublin, Ohio, U.S.Living our values Inclusive
$3.3 billion 
spend with small and diverse suppliers
770 suppliers 
owned by women or minorities
3,175 diverse supplier partner relationships
including small, HUBZone-based businesses and 
businesses owned by minorities, women, the 
disadvantaged, veterans, service-disabled veterans  
and LGBTQ people
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    39 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index Can fashion improve patient outcomes? Cardinal Health partnered with  
graduate students at Columbus College of Art & Design to find out.
The relationship with Cardinal Health resulted in CCAD dedicating a course in its Master 
of Design program to improving the design and functionality of high-barrier surgical 
gowns used by healthcare providers. Students were tasked with developing strategies 
and working through challenges specific to operating room staff, such as overheating, 
fluid protection, universal sizing and cost considerations for the disposable gowns. 
The students explored trends in comfort, such as stretchy necklines inspired by athletic 
wear, and applied smart technologies like material designed to keep surgeons cool 
during long procedures.Throughout the course, students tested their gown prototypes with medical professionals, 
who provided critical feedback on fit, comfort and functionality. “Thoroughly 
understanding the customers’ experience and challenges with a surgical product allows 
us to adapt and modernize,” said Director of Product Management and Development Joel 
Colyer. “It’s really pushed us in some directions we wouldn’t have thought of otherwise.”
He noted that when it comes to innovation, building cross-functional relationships like 
this one is key. “It’s not what we’re trying to do, but what we’re trying to solve,” Joel said. 
“Asking ‘why not?’ instead of ‘why?’” Living our values Innovative
Design with a purpose
“To continue providing the high-quality surgical products our customers expect, we’re 
always seeking opportunities for improvement. And when we can think outside the 
box and utilize partners like CCAD, we often find the most innovative ideas.” 
— Joel Colyer , Director of Product Management and Development
Xeuna Pu -Designer 
Surgical Gowns
“I like the thumbhole mostly for 
isolation gowns, it’s very nice to 
have, to keep things in place 
especially with longer gloves.”“I'd like a better material because 
the paper material is really boxy. 
It's kind of hard to conform to an 
arm or something.”Co-Design
Users shared experiences and evaluated the prototypes, 
using current Cardinal Health gowns as a control group.
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    40 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index Strengthening  
    our communities
Our Dublin, Ohio-based compliance team did fall 
cleanup at a community garden as part of the Franklin 
Park Conservatory’s Growing to Green program.
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    41 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI indexOur company, our Foundation and our 
employees are passionate about giving 
back to strengthen the communities 
where we live and work. Through 
the Cardinal Health Foundation, our 
philanthropic efforts focus primarily on 
three key initiatives: investing in healthcare 
and community health, supporting 
our employees’ commitment to their 
communities and fighting prescription 
drug misuse.
Cockwise from top: the 
Nashville chapter of our 
Women’s Initiative Network 
Employee Resource Group 
(ERG) volunteer with Junior 
Achievement; our Pelotonia 
cycling team; our Asian Pacific 
American Network ERG hosts 
annual dragon boat races in 
Columbus; a few of the walkers 
on our AHA Heart Walk team.
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    42 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI indexWe strive to help build healthier communities, where 
all people have the opportunity to live healthy lives 
and share their perspectives and experiences — 
communities where diversity and inclusion thrive.
Addressing social determinants of health: We know that health is 
not just about healthcare. In fact, social factors are greater predictors 
of health and well-being than clinical health. According to a 2016 
issue of the American Journal of Preventive Medicine , medical care 
accounts for only 10% to 20% of the contributors to health outcomes. 
The other 80% to 90% are social determinants of health, including 
socioeconomic factors and environmental factors.  
By the end of FY20, the Cardinal Health Foundation will have awarded 
$2.5 million in grants to nonprofit organizations that address food 
insecurity and/or housing instability, complex social issues that greatly 
influence population health. By supporting organizations that help to 
increase access to healthy foods and prevent homelessness, we can 
improve health outcomes and the overall health of our communities.Investing in healthcare 
and community health
 Food market provides free groceries to  
college students
More than half of the students who attend Columbus 
State Community College are at risk of going hungry. 
At the two-year college located in downtown 
Columbus, Ohio — a 20-minute drive from  
Cardinal Health headquarters in Dublin — 66% of 
scholars are 200% or more below the federal poverty 
level. Once textbooks, housing and tuition are paid, 
finding money for food can seem impossible. 
To help combat students’ food insecurity, the  
Cardinal Health Foundation donated $700,000 to 
create the Mid-Ohio Market, an extension of the  
Mid-Ohio Foodbank that provides a wide variety 
of free fresh and imperishable foods for qualifying 
students and the 60% of local residents who also 
need help putting food on the table. 
“For those attending Columbus State, being a student 
is just part of the story,” said Kathryne Reeves, Vice 
Chair of the Cardinal Health Foundation Board.  “It’s hard to focus when you’re hungry. It’s hard to stay 
in school when you don’t have enough money to 
feed your children.”
Kathryne noted that for many in central Ohio, 
academic success can be a game changer. 
“Education helps build a pathway out of poverty for 
students and their families for generations to come. We 
believe the Mid-Ohio Market at Columbus State will 
remove the significant barrier of food insecurity for a 
large number of students and their neighbors. It will help 
thousands of central Ohioans improve their lives, and the 
Cardinal Health Foundation is proud to support it.”
Living our values Mission driven
Feeding an education 
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    43 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI indexOur employees support thousands of nonprofits that work to better our 
communities. Each year, employees’ gifts, combined with a Foundation 
match, amount to nearly $2 million in donations to charitable causes. 
Giving in our communities: We empower employees to invest their time, talents and 
finances where they’re most passionate. Employees are actively engaged in education 
initiatives, fighting hunger and homelessness, ending poverty, fighting substance misuse and 
supporting medical research, animal rights organizations and numerous arts organizations.
Employee involvement is multi-faceted: Our employees run, bike and walk to support 
causes important to them and raise literally millions of dollars to support those efforts. They 
share professional skills in human resources, operational excellence, management, strategy, 
marketing and other areas, and they participate on the boards of nonprofit organizations, 
often in leadership positions.
Product donations: Every year, we donate millions of dollars in non-prescription products 
to four international relief organizations that support charitable missions and disaster relief 
throughout the United States and around the world. These organizations are Americares 
Foundation, Heart to Heart International, MAP International and World Vision. 
Learn more about product donations »Supporting employees’ commitment to community
Fisher House Foundation
Nearly $1.5 million*  
raised for military familiesPelotonia 
Nearly $3 million*  
raised for cancer research
Hundreds  of employees
join the team each year
American Heart Association  
Heart Walk  
Nearly $2 million* 
raised for heart research
Hundreds  of employees across 
the country walk  each year
*Pelotonia and AHA Heart Walk funds raised since 2009; Fisher House Foundation dollars raised since 2016.
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    44 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI indexCardinal Health has been deeply committed to 
finding and supporting solutions to the public  
health crisis of prescription drug misuse since 2009, 
when we began supporting Generation Rx. 
Generation Rx is an evidence-informed prevention education and 
awareness program designed for anyone to use to educate people 
of all ages about safe medication practices and the potential 
dangers of misusing prescription medications. Generation Rx  
was founded at The Ohio State University College of Pharmacy  
and has been powered through a partnership with the  
Cardinal Health Foundation since 2009.
Generation Rx includes four simple but critically important 
medication safety messages:
• Take medications exactly as prescribed
• Store prescription drugs in secure locations
• Properly dispose of medications that you no longer need
• Promote safe medication practices and teach others  
to do the same
Learn more about Generation Rx »Fighting prescription drug misuse
Generation Rx presentation at Glacier Ridge Elementary in central Ohio.The Associates Fund is a financial 
resource designed to support  
Cardinal Health employees dealing  
with financial hardship due to an 
unexpected crisis, like a natural  
disaster. It is a non-profit, tax-exempt, 
charitable fund operated by a team  
of Cardinal Health employees.  
The Associates Fund has helped 
hundreds of employees around  
the world since it was established  
more than 20 years ago.The Cardinal Health Associates Fund
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    45 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI indexWe support a variety of near-term and long-term solutions designed  
to prevent prescription drug misuse and fight the opioid epidemic,  
from reducing opioids prescribed to raising awareness of the risks  
of prescription drug misuse to catalyzing community solutions. 
Initiatives to reduce prescribing
Optimal Prescribing in Pain Management grants: The Cardinal Health Foundation awarded 
nearly $1 million in grants to state pharmacy associations and colleges of pharmacy to impact the 
opioid epidemic across five states. The grants are designed to engage pharmacists in working with 
other healthcare providers and patients to support best prescribing strategies.
The Alliance for Integrated Medication Management (AIMM), whose expertise is convening and 
coaching healthcare organizations to improve outcomes and reduce costs, is leading a learning 
collaborative for the grantees, designed to accelerate strategy adoption and measurement.
Best Practices in Opioid Prescribing Symposium: We hosted past grant recipients, pain 
management experts and other healthcare providers at a two-day symposium so they could 
discuss best practices, successes and challenges in managing pain with fewer opioids prescribed.  Ohio Hospital Association partnership:  Thanks to funding from the Cardinal Health 
Foundation, the OHA has engaged providers and patients in more than 75 hospitals in a 
project to optimize the prescribing and use of opioids in order to promote optimal patient 
outcomes for pain management. Combating opioid misuse: Community initiatives
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    46 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI indexInitiatives to raise awareness
Drug take-back events:  According to the 2017 National 
Survey on Drug Use and Health, more than 53% of those  
who misused prescription pain medications obtained them 
from a friend or relative. Disposing of unused or expired 
medications is one of the easiest things anyone can do  
to help prevent misuse.
That is why Cardinal Health partners with Kroger to  
host biannual drug take-back events at more than  
200 pharmacy locations across the country. These events 
result in the secure collection and disposal of thousands  
of pounds of medications each spring and fall.
Don’t live in Denial, Ohio: With $1 million in funding 
over two years, we have partnered with the Ohio Opioid 
Education Alliance to increase the impact of its community 
education campaign, “Denial, Ohio.” The campaign has two 
key messages: talk to kids about the risks of prescription drug 
misuse and safely dispose of unused medications. With our 
engagement, the Alliance now offers Generation Rx resources 
to parents, teachers and other community members so they 
can take action and teach others about medication safety.Educating our employees: All U.S. employees are required 
to complete a training about the opioid epidemic and the 
role that Cardinal Health plays in finding solutions to fight the 
epidemic. The training arms employees with facts about the 
epidemic and provides tips on how to talk about the issue 
with friends and family.
Initiatives to catalyze community solutions
Community-level response to the opioid crisis:  In 2018, 
we awarded eight grants to community collaborative 
organizations across the state of Ohio to further their work  
on fighting the epidemic locally with multiple initiatives,  
with the goal of reducing addiction, overdoses and  
deaths related to opioid misuse.
Our grants, in combination with other initiatives in the 
communities, helped these organizations achieve a  
42% decrease in opioid-related hospital admissions  
and a 32% decrease in opioid overdose deaths.
Prevention education/awareness grants: Over the last 
decade, we have awarded millions of dollars in grants to 
spread the messages and impact of Generation Rx.
Learn more about our commitment  
to being part of the solution »
“I’ve had the opportunity to be a 
mentor in different capacities 
while at Cardinal Health. If you 
really are invested in folks, and 
if you really, really do care 
about folks, nothing makes 
you happier than to watch 
their upward mobility  
within an organization.  
That’s the best — 
that’s the reward.” 
— John Kilgour 
2019 Founder’s  
Award honoree
VP , Direct Sales 
Management
Massachusetts, U.S. Living our values Integrity
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    47 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI indexOperating sustainably  
                    and responsibly 
Employees participating 
in the SMART Columbus 
Electric Vehicle Ride and 
Drive program.
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    48 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index As a global company, we know that the long-
term health of our communities, our colleagues 
and our customers and partners depends on 
a sustainable world. Across our footprint we 
look for ways to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions, reduce landfill burden, conserve 
water and design products and services that 
reduce overall environmental impact. 
We conduct business in ways that show our respect for  
the environment and demonstrate our commitment to  
the health and safety of our employees, contractors and  
the community. We comply with Environment, Health and 
Safety (EHS) regulatory requirements as well as our own 
internal expectations. We integrate EHS into company-wide 
business processes and expect continuous improvement  
in EHS performance.
Our operations are supported by a globally diverse 
department of degreed and certified EHS and sustainability 
professionals collectively fluent in more than 10 languages. We use a global EHS system that is built on the Plan-Do-
Check-Adjust continual improvement model. The system 
provides the framework for operations to predictably and 
sustainably manage through goal setting, defining roles  
and responsibilities, developing proactive performance 
measures and holding individuals accountable for their 
responsibilities. A key element of our system is hazard 
recognition, evaluation and control, which establishes  
and documents a process to continuously identify and 
assess hazards and associated risks and establishes  
methods to eliminate or reduce risk. 
International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 
certification:  In FY19, we began preparing 23  
manufacturing sites that make products for markets in  
Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA) for ISO 
environmental and safety certification. 
We are pursuing both ISO 14001 and ISO 45001 certification 
simultaneously. ISO 14001 is the international standard for 
implementing an Environmental Management System (EMS); 
it maps out a framework that organizations can follow to 
set up an effective EMS. ISO 45001 is similar to ISO 14001 but focuses on managing occupational health and safety 
concerns, including job hazards, regulatory requirements and 
potential emergencies.
We expect to achieve globally recognized ISO 14001 and 
ISO 45001 certification in 2021 or sooner across multiple 
manufacturing operations.
Regulatory compliance:  Cardinal Health has recently 
engaged a global EHS compliance assurance company to 
provide global checklists and assessment tools to ensure we 
maintain excellence in EHS regulatory compliance.
Learn more:
• Global EHS policy »
• Global EHS management system »
• Global Environmental Sustainability guiding principles »Global Environment, Health, Safety and Sustainability programs
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    49 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index Although Costa Rica is a small country, it has about 5% of 
the world’s land-based biodiversity and is one of the most 
sustainable countries in the world. 
So it’s not a surprise that the Cardinal Health medical 
device manufacturing plant in Costa Rica is at the 
forefront of industrial sustainability efforts.
“As a country, we are passionate about sustainability and 
taking care of the environment,” said Andres Alexis Alpizar, 
Manager, EHS in Costa Rica. “We bring that passion to 
work at Cardinal Health every day.”
Indeed, Cardinal Health Costa Rica has a distinguished 
history of resource conservation, energy efficiency and 
environmental sustainability.  
Over the years, the site’s leaders have undertaken 
numerous capital projects designed to improve efficiency 
and limit environmental impact: upgrading to smart 
HVAC control systems, optimizing chiller performance 
and installing energy efficient LED lighting. The site also 
reduced its annual expense for drinkable water by 39% by improving an aging wastewater treatment plant and 
installing a rainwater collection system. 
The installation of a photovoltaic solar system on the 
building’s roof produces, on average, 50 kilowatts of clean 
energy per hour and saves the facility more than $90,000 
in energy costs each year. Plant leaders are currently working on several new projects, 
including replacement of outside lighting with highly 
efficient LEDs and a power storage system, which will store 
energy when power prices are lower and release power to 
the facility in peak times, reducing energy expense. Cardinal Health Costa Rica: Reducing environmental impact
Arturo Esquivel, Site Director, left, and  
Andres Alexis Alpizar, Manager, EHS, lead 
efforts to reduce the carbon footprint of  
our Costa Rica facility.Living our values Integrity
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    50 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index Emissions control: We continually 
assess our industrial emissions control 
systems and invest in energy optimization 
technologies that reduce our greenhouse 
gas emissions. We identify the sites that 
have the largest emissions profile and 
prioritize them for emission reduction 
measures. Energy optimization projects 
across our facilities are reducing carbon 
dioxide equivalency (CO2e) emissions and 
increasing energy cost savings. 
In FY19, energy efficiency projects saved 
approximately 3,900 metric tons of CO2e 
and 5.7 million kWh in energy.
By the end of 2021, we plan to set a public 
greenhouse gas emissions reduction goal 
for our pharmaceutical distribution business.
Water usage: We take actions toward 
reducing water consumption levels at 
select locations. One of our key practices  
is recycling water.
“I am very proud to be a part of an 
organization that can touch the 
life of a patient multiple times 
throughout the continuum of 
care. It really hits home when I see 
someone close to me who needs 
care being treated by a dedicated 
nurse or physician: That trusting 
relationship is 
something I strive 
to emulate in my 
engagements 
with our 
customers.”
— Marc-Sébastien
Verrault
Director, Strategic 
Accounts-East
Montreal, Québec, 
CanadaLiving our values Integrity
Scope 1 (direct)*               Scope 2 (indirect)*              Scope 3 (other indirect)**
Total recycled 
Total usageGreenhouse gas emissions  
(thousand metric tons CO2e)
Water usage  
(million cubic meters)* Calculated according to The Climate Register General Reporting Protocol.
**  Calculated according to the U.S. EPA Emission Factors for Greenhouse Gas 
Inventories. Our calculations include only North American-based air travel. 
 FY19 represents approximately 91% of total square footage.
 Cardinal Health engaged APEX in an independent verification of our reported 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Our FY19 GHG emissions have been verified  
at a Limited Level of Assurance: Scope 1, Scope 2 (location based) and Scope 3 
(air travel departing from North America only).
FY19 numbers represent 84% of total 
square footage.FY18
FY18FY19
FY19335
5.123350
4.916
177
1.0169
0.50
0600
6 7500
5400
4300
3200
2100
1Fig. 1
Fig. 2
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    51 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index Recycled
Non-recycled2019
2018
Fig. 4      Total recycling and waste (million pounds)
* Total hazardous waste comprises less 
than 2% of all waste generated.
 FY19 waste and recycling numbers 
represent 85% of total square footage.FY18FY19
4248
134133Fig. 3       Recycling data (million pounds)
ElectronicsPlasticsCardboard
MetalsPaperWood
0.423.542.8
2.6
0.43.747.7
20 10 0 30 40 50
0 150 200 100 5044.5
48.2
2.4
21.4
2.1Recycling:  Fundamental to our sustainability initiatives, our recycling programs include 
wood, cardboard, plastics, paper, metal, electronics, ink cartridges and other materials.
Waste management:  With an outside partner, we are launching a Total Waste 
Management (TWM) program that will include standardized waste management tools 
and processes at our facilities, with the goal of identifying opportunities to increase the 
responsible management of waste, decrease cost, improve operational efficiency and 
ensure compliance. The TWM program will begin in the U.S.; our goal is to launch it 
globally in the future.
Sustainable Technologies™:  This Cardinal Health business is a leading provider 
of single-use device (SUD) reprocessing services. We are dedicated to delivering 
market-proven solutions to fully complement customers’ needs across surgical, 
electrophysiology lab and patient care programs. More than 2,000 hospitals depend 
on Sustainable Technologies to provide quality reprocessed devices, environmental 
sustainability and financial value. 
Our reprocessing manufacturing facility in Riverview, Fla., operates on a zero landfill 
model to manage the end lifecycle of SUDs that cannot be reprocessed. 
In FY19, Sustainable Technologies extended the life of 16 million devices, diverted  
more than 324,000 pounds of SUDs from landfills and saved our customers $40 million. 
We have recently expanded the Sustainable Technologies portfolio to include more 
than 2,000 commonly reprocessed products. 
Learn more about Sustainable Technologies »
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    52 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index Transportation: As a leader in healthcare logistics, we have 
one of the largest healthcare-dedicated fleets in the industry. 
In FY19, our private fleet alone covered more than 34 million 
miles. With annual fleet upgrades, we are standardizing 
safety and efficiency features. Accident avoidance and other 
safety programs are making our fleet drivers, customers 
and those we share the road with safer. Aerodynamic cabs, 
automatic transmissions, idle time restrictors, speed limiters 
and low rolling resistance tires have helped reduce our fuel 
consumption and emissions across the fleet.   
Since 2010, we have been a partner in good standing, both 
as a shipper and a carrier, in the Environmental Protection 
Agency’s SmartWay program, which helps us advance supply 
chain sustainability. Cardinal Health Canada has been a 
partner in the program since 2015.
Columbus, Ohio, received $50 million in funding and 
designation as America’s Smart City from the U.S. Department 
of Transportation. Smart Columbus is managed through a 
public/private partnership of the City of Columbus and the 
Columbus Partnership. As a Smart Columbus Acceleration Partner, we are working 
to transform mobility in central Ohio — home to our 
headquarters — to improve quality of life for our residents, 
foster sustainability, improve safety and drive economic growth.
The SMART Columbus Electric Vehicle (EV) Ride and Drive 
program hosted more than 1 1,500 EV test drives throughout 
the area. More than 650 Cardinal Health employees 
participated in the test drives, giving our company second 
place on the leader board for greatest number of EV drives 
among participating Acceleration Partners. At two of our 
corporate headquarters buildings, we offer multiple electric 
vehicle charging stations. In FY19, we piloted a company- 
sponsored $2,000 rebate program for Columbus employees 
who purchased or leased an electric vehicle.  
Energy savings in our headquarters buildings:  At one 
of our corporate headquarters sites, we recently converted a 
400,000-plus square foot building and surrounding campus 
to LED lighting, saving more than 1,250 MWh and resulting 
in an annual reduction of more than 880 metric tons of CO2e. 
At two other headquarters buildings, we put multiple energy 
reduction measures in place that helped save more than  
798 MWh, reducing CO2e by more than 560 metric tons.  
Learn more about our sustainability work » 
“Differences in our education, 
background and job experiences 
provide us with great tools 
and different solutions to 
a common challenge.  By 
trusting each other and being 
the change agent, we move 
towards the common goal of 
making healthcare better for  
our customers.” 
— Yuv Bhardwaj
Director of Transportation, 
National Supply Centre
Mississauga, Ontario, CanadaLiving our values Inclusive
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    53 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index Sustainability guiding principles
With a strong environmental compliance record and award-winning facilities, we have key principles that guide our 
sustainability efforts.
“Being a receptionist, I consider myself 
the first face and first voice on behalf 
of Cardinal Health. I have a strong 
passion for representing the 
company, doing what I love to do: 
caring about the well-being 
and needs of others.  You do 
that with family. I consider 
Cardinal Health  
my family.”  
— Alonda Hicks
Lead Receptionist
Dublin, Ohio, U.S.Living our values Accountable
Pollution prevention
Minimize waste generated 
in our operations and 
maintain high rates of  
reuse and recycling.Energy optimization
Optimize energy selection 
and use to reduce impacts 
to the environment, 
minimize greenhouse 
gas emissions and give 
preference to renewable 
energy sources when 
financially responsible.Design for environment
Design products and 
services to reduce 
consumption of natural 
resources and energy 
requirements, to reduce 
waste and emissions,  
and to maximize overall 
product functionality.Employee and  
public outreach
Promote environmental 
awareness and engagement 
among employees,  
the public and our 
customers that lead to 
sustainable development.
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    54 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index Dublin campus turns food waste into compost
Every day, the Cardinal Health Dublin campus cafeteria 
prepares breakfast and lunch for thousands of employees, 
generating 80-100 pounds of organic waste in the process. 
All those limp vegetables, meat scraps and eggshells once 
ended up in the landfill, but thanks to the efforts of the 
kitchen staff and Environmental Sustainability and Energy 
Procurement Advisor Alex Burke, waste now diverts to an 
outside compost facility. 
“We have lots of opportunity at the headquarters to decrease 
waste,” Alex said. “This was an easy win, since we have a 
centralized location that’s producing a fairly substantial 
amount of waste. It was something that was easy to target  
to improve our landfill diversion rate.” 
Moving waste to a compost facility reduces decomposition 
time, thereby reducing carbon emissions. The soil created 
after treatment is used to fertilize home gardens, corporate 
offices and public spaces alike, contributing positively to  
the environment. “Composting is just 
one example of being 
a steward to the 
environment. We need to 
be cognizant of the impact 
we have on the natural 
world. We wouldn’t be 
able to operate a business 
without the natural 
resources we take from it, 
and it’s important to give 
back whenever possible.”
— Alex Burke
Environmental Sustainability and 
Energy Procurement AdvisorSustaining environmental health
Living our values Accountable
Executive Chef Davin Hill gathers 
food scraps for composting.
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    55 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index Governance  
                      and ethics
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    56 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI indexOur Board of Directors serves as the representative for and acts on  
behalf of all shareholders of Cardinal Health. 
Directors are responsible for exercising their business judgment in good faith and for  
acting in what they believe to be the best interests of the company. Among the Board’s 
responsibilities are:
• Oversight of management in the conduct of our businesses and of management’s  
efforts to establish and maintain high standards of legal and ethical conduct
• Review of and (where appropriate) approval of the company’s major business  
strategies, capital deployment and long-term plans
• Review of company performance
• Selection and evaluation of the CEO and other senior officers
• Setting compensation for the CEO and other senior officers
• Planning for management succession
• Oversight of management’s accounting, financial reporting and financial  
and other controls
• Oversight of risk management policies and practices
• Recommending appropriate candidates for the Board Our Corporate Governance Guidelines require that the Board be diverse, engaged and 
independent. Our Board reflects a diversity of skills; of professional, gender, ethnic and  
personal backgrounds; and of experience, and includes a balance of longer-serving  
directors with newer ones.Board of Directors
Gender and ethnic diversity
4 
Women2 
Ethnically diverse
Years of service on the board
6 
0 to 5 years3 
6 to 10 years3 
1 1 to 14 years6 years 
Average tenure 
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    57 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI indexBoard of Directors
Gregory B. Kenny  
Chairman of the Board  
Retired President and CEO, 
General Cable Corp.  
Committees: N, AH, SG
Colleen F. Arnold  
Retired SVP , Sales and 
Distribution, IBM  
Committee: A
Carrie S. Cox  
Retired Chairman and CEO, 
Humacyte, Inc.  
Committees: H, AHCalvin Darden  
Retired SVP of  
U.S. Operations, UPS  
Committees: H, AH
Bruce L. Downey  
Retired Chairman and CEO, 
Barr Pharmaceuticals and 
Partner, NewSpring Health 
Capital II, LP  
Committees: N, AH
Patricia A. Hemingway Hall  
Retired President  
and CEO, Health Care 
Service Corporation  
Committees: H, NAkhil Johri  
Retired EVP and CFO,  
United Technologies  
Committees: A, SG
Michael C. Kaufmann  
CEO, Cardinal Health
Nancy Killefer  
Retired Senior Partner  
Public Sector Practice, 
McKinsey & Company  
Committees: H, SGJ. Michael Losh  
Retired EVP and CFO, 
General Motors  
Committee: A
Dean A. Scarborough  
Retired Chairman and  
CEO, Avery Dennison  
Committee: A
John H. Weiland  
Retired President and  
COO, C. R. Bard  
Committees: A, SG
Committee codes: A: Audit; AH: Ad Hoc; H: Human Resources and Compensation; N: Nominating and Governance; and SG: Surgical Gown Recall Oversight. The Ad Hoc Committee of independent directors 
was formed in 2018 to assist the Board in overseeing the company’s response to the opioid crisis. The Surgical Gown Recall Oversight Committee of independent directors was formed in January 2020 to 
assist the Board in overseeing the company’s response to a surgical gown recall. All Board members, with the exception of CEO Mike Kaufmann, are independent.
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    58 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI indexOur customers, shareholders and suppliers count on us to comply 
with all applicable legal requirements and to conduct business 
responsibly and with integrity. We take great pride in our business 
integrity. Our company’s continued success depends on it.
Standards of Business Conduct:  These standards communicate our company’s core 
values to employees and provide specific guidance for how we interact with each other 
and with customers, vendors and all other third parties.  
Our employees are trained on our Standards of Business Conduct when they join the 
company, and they certify compliance annually thereafter.
We build on these standards when we implement company-wide policies that provide 
guidelines for doing our jobs in compliance with the laws and regulations applicable 
to each business unit’s operations. From our manufacturing facilities to our distribution 
centers to our sales and marketing teams, these policies often require detailed 
procedures to ensure appropriate review and approval of various regulated activities.Governance and ethics
• Act with integrity and in compliance  
with the law
• Ask questions, seek guidance and  
raise concerns
• Treat one another fairly and foster a safe, 
productive, diverse and environmentally 
responsible workplace
• Avoid conflicts of interest
• Compete with integrity in the marketplace• Protect the integrity of the global  
supply chain
• Interact appropriately with government 
entities, officials and employees
• Maintain accurate books and records
• Protect information and assets
• Encourage individual volunteerism and 
corporate social responsibility
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    59 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI indexEthical sales and marketing:  The promotion and sale of 
healthcare products and services that are reimbursed by 
government programs are subject to heightened regulatory 
and ethical standards. In order to ensure compliance with 
these standards, we have company-wide policies that 
address these activities and interactions with customers 
and healthcare professionals. Our policies address many risk 
areas, including prohibiting off-label promotion, restricting 
gifts and entertainment to customers and healthcare 
professionals, and requiring that all meals with customers 
and healthcare professionals be modest and in connection 
with a legitimate business meeting. 
Cardinal Health is a member of the Advanced Medical 
Technology Association (AdvaMed) and has adopted the 
AdvaMed Code of Ethics in the U.S., as well as other similar 
codes of ethics throughout the world, such as MedTech 
Europe, APACMed in Asia and Mecomed in the Middle  
East and Africa. Employees receive information and training 
about these codes of ethics, industry standards, our policies 
and applicable laws and regulations through online and 
live training, inter-company news articles and updates, 
compliance awareness events and campaigns  
and company-wide meetings.  Preventing bribery and corruption:  Our anti-bribery and 
anti-corruption policy identifies requirements for employee 
conduct. For third-party sellers, we publish a guide that 
explains our standards and how to apply them when 
transacting business with Cardinal Health or when acting on 
our behalf. We regularly seek guidance from outside legal 
experts and consultants to make continuous improvements 
to our anti-bribery and anti-corruption program. We train 
employees on the anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws in 
the countries where we do business and on our company-
wide policies. We subject third-party intermediaries who 
market or sell products on our behalf to compliance due 
diligence, training and monitoring.
Risk assessments and monitoring:  Our ethics and 
compliance team conducts risk assessments and uses data 
from various compliance systems to monitor activity levels  
in key compliance risk areas.
“It’s pretty amazing to work for a company 
that has ‘Inclusive’ as one of its values 
— and that’s an expectation 
that, not just as leaders but 
as people, we accept 
people for who they 
are and allow them 
to bring 100% of 
themselves to work 
every day .”
— Corey Huckabey  
2019 Founder’s Award honoree
Director, Network and  
Payor Relations
Dublin, Ohio, U.S.Living our values Inclusive
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    60 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI indexEthics awareness: During FY19, legal and compliance 
professionals conducted almost 200 live training events, 
educating thousands of employees on legal and compliance 
topics. Employees completed more than 100,000 courses 
on nearly 40 ethics and compliance topics through our 
electronic training system. As a company, we recognize 
National Compliance Week in the U.S. and in other countries 
with an internal Compliance Week program that engages 
employees through various communications, interactive 
activities and presentations from outside experts. Reporting concerns: Our Business Conduct Line is 
available for employees and third parties to ask questions 
about our Standards of Business Conduct and other ethics 
and compliance topics, or report concerns or potential 
policy violations to their compliance business partner 
or anonymously. The Business Conduct Line, a global 
telephone and email information and reporting service, is 
available toll-free, 24/7 , in multiple languages. The Business 
Conduct Line is routinely advertised and promoted via 
posters, the intranet and digital monitors, and through live 
and online compliance trainings. We prohibit retaliation 
against any employee who makes a good faith complaint 
through any channel. 
Cardinal Health takes all reports seriously, and promptly and 
thoroughly investigates them. Depending on the findings, 
discipline up to and including termination of employment 
may occur for employees who violate our Standards of 
Business Conduct, our policies or the law.
“I was born and raised in China, and my family 
is at the core of helping shape who I am. 
My dad taught me that integrity is all 
about what he believes in and what 
he does: There is no gap between  
his intent and his behavior. It’s 
about developing the intent,  
the capabilities and the results 
that make you believable,  
both to yourself and to  
others.  If you say you’re 
going to deliver something, 
you go do it.”
— Bonnie Hou
Manager, 
Strategic 
Planning/
Execution
Dublin, Ohio, U.S.Living our values Integrity
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    61 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI indexParticipating in the political process: We use our unique 
knowledge and healthcare experience to inform and 
advise policy makers on matters that impact the quality, 
effectiveness and affordability of healthcare, as well as on 
matters that impact our company, employees, customers  
and shareholders. 
We make very limited political contributions with corporate 
funds. Most of our political contributions to state candidates, 
and all contributions to federal candidates, are made by 
the Cardinal Health Companies Political Action Committee 
(PAC) and not with corporate funds. The PAC is funded 
entirely by voluntary contributions from employees and is 
administratively supported by Cardinal Health. 
We disclose contributions from corporate funds to state 
candidates and ballot initiatives and identify trade associations 
to which we paid more than $50,000 in annual corporate 
member payments in our annual political activities and 
contributions report. We prohibit trade associations from 
using our contributions for political purposes.
We comply with U.S. federal and state laws, including the 
Lobbying Disclosure Act and Honest Leadership and  
Open Government Act, which require reporting on  
lobbying activities and certification of compliance with 
Congressional gift rules. 
“For me, it starts with personal 
accountability: taking  
initiative and doing things 
that were not a part of  
the job description.   
Cardinal Health takes pride in 
customer satisfaction. If the 
customer needs them to 
go one mile, they’ll 
go the extra mile.”  
— Jonathan McCrea
Senior Associate, 
Material Handling
Fort Mill, S.C., U.S.Living our values Accountable
Learn more
• Standards of business conduct » 
• Cardinal Health anti-bribery and  
anti-corruption policy » 
• Anti-bribery and anti-corruption guide  
for third-party sellers working for or on 
behalf of Cardinal Health » 
• 2019 political activities and  
contributions report » 
• Federal lobbying reports »
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    62 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI indexUnless otherwise indicated, data in this report are reflective of fiscal year 2019 (July 1, 2018-
June 30, 2019). The statistics and metrics included in this report may be based on estimates, 
assumptions or developing standards. Except for the greenhouse gas emissions data, the 
report has not been externally assured or verified by an independent third party. 
Cardinal Health is headquartered in Dublin, Ohio. More than 97% of our FY19 revenue was 
generated in the United States. Though the scope of this report primarily reflects the United 
States, our business description and governance and ethics sections in this report reflect 
company-wide practice. In addition, data about the environment and health and safety are 
based on our global operations. 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework 
This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. It includes 
topic-specific standards that we identified through our ESG priority assessment. For more 
details, please refer to the GRI content index at the end of this report.Forward-looking statements 
This report contains forward-looking statements addressing expectations, prospects, estimates 
and other matters that are dependent on future events or developments. These statements 
may be identified by words such as “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “will,” 
“should,” “could,” “would,” “project,” “continue,” “likely,” “commit to” or other words or expressions 
of similar meaning, although not all forward-looking statements contain such terms. Actual 
results may differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied in forward-looking 
statements due to a variety of factors, including the risks and uncertainties described in our 
Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports and exhibits to those reports. Forward-looking 
statements speak only as of the date this document is first published. Except to the extent 
required by applicable law, Cardinal Health undertakes no obligation to update or revise any 
forward-looking statement. Forward-looking statements are aspirational and not guarantees or 
promises that goals or targets will be met. Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance 
on any forward-looking statements.
For more information about the operations of Cardinal Health,  
please see the FY19 Cardinal Health Annual Report »About this report
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    63 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI indexGRI index
GRI Standard/
DisclosureDescription Page/Comment
Organizational profile
102-1 Name of the Organization Cardinal Health, Inc.
102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 2019 CCR (pg. 7 , 28-29 and 31), Form 10-K  (pg. 26-27)
102-3 Location of headquarters 7000 Cardinal Place, Dublin, Ohio 43017
102-4 Location of operations Form 10-K  (pg. 37)
102-5 Ownership and legal form Cardinal Health, Inc. is a publicly held Ohio corporation that is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under ticker symbol CAH.
102-6 Markets served 2019 CCR (pg. 7 , 28-29 and 31), Form 10-K  (pg. 26-28)
102-7 Scale of the organization 2019 CCR (pg. 7), Form 10-K  (pg. 28, 37 , 46-49, 70-71)
102-8 Information on employees and other workers 2019 CCR (pg. 7 and 13), Form 10-K  (pg. 28)
102-9 Supply chain 2019 CCR (pg. 35-36 and 38-39)
102-10 Significant changes to the organization or its 
supply chainForm 10-K  (pg. 27)
102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Cardinal Health does not have an official policy as it pertains to the precautionary principle.  
102-12 External initiatives 2019 CCR (pg. 5 and 60)
102-13 Membership of associations 2019 CCR (pg. 62)The GRI content index includes references to this 2019 Corporate Citizenship Report (CCR), our 2019 Form 10-K, our 2019 Proxy Statement and other information available on cardinalhealth.com.
GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016*
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    64 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index GRI Standard/
DisclosureDescription Page/Comment
Strategy
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2019 CCR (pg. 3-6)
Ethics and integrity
102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms  
of behavior2019 CCR (pg. 3-4, 8 and 59)
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns  
about ethics2019 CCR (pg. 61)
Governance
102-18 Governance structure 2019 CCR (pg. 9 and 57-58), Proxy Statement  (pg. 15-18)
102-25 Conflicts of interest 2019 CCR (pg. 59), Proxy Statement  (pg. 26)
Stakeholder engagement
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Our stakeholders include the following groups that may be affected by or could influence or impact our activities: shareholders, peers, 
partners, suppliers, industry associations, customers, employees and prospective talent, non-governmental or non-profit organizations, 
media, product standard-setters, governments, regulators, international policy organizations and disclosure standard-setters.
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Approximately 1% of our U.S. workforce is covered by collective bargaining agreements. We have a portion of employees outside the U.S. 
covered under work councils or collective bargaining agreements. These vary in scope by country or region based on local regulatory or 
compliance requirements or customary practice.
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 2019 CCR (pg. 9 and 1 1)
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 2019 CCR (pg. 1 1), Proxy Statement  (pg. 24)
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 2019 CCR (pg. 9-10), Proxy Statement  (pg. 24)
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    65 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index GRI Standard/
DisclosureDescription Page/Comment
Reporting practice
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated  
financial statementsForm 10-K  (Exhibit 21.1)
102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 2019 CCR (pg. 9-10 and 63)
102-47 List of material topics 2019 CCR (pg. 10)
102-48 Restatements of information Cardinal Health has no restatements of information to report for FY19.
102-49 Changes in reporting We have completed an ESG priority assessment and have included our list of priority topics in our 2019 Corporate Citizenship Report.
102-50 Reporting period 2019 CCR (pg. 63)
102-51 Date of most recent report Our 2018 CCR was published in May 2019.
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report ESGinquiries@cardinalhealth.com  or Investor Relations at 614.757 .1607 or investor.relations@cardinalhealth.com
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the  
GRI Standards2019 CCR (pg. 63)
102-55 GRI content index 2019 CCR (pg. 64)
102-56 External assurance Some of our environmental data is assured; see 2019 CCR (pg. 51). We did not seek external assurance for the remainder of the 2019 CCR. 
See 2019 Verification Statement and 2018 Verification Statement . 
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    66 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index GRI Standard/
DisclosureDescription Page/Comment
Indirect Economic Impacts
GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016
103-1  
103-2  
103-3Management approach Our supplier diversity program reports to our President, U.S. Sales, Medical Solutions, who reports to our CEO, Medical Segment. See also 
2019 CCR (p. 39). Our VP , Community Relations reports to our Chief Human Resources Officer (CHRO). With respect to the management 
approach regarding the company’s response to the opioid epidemic, see 2019 CCR (pg. 30 and 45-47) and GRI 416.
Boundary: Communities, Customers, Investors, Policymakers, Suppliers
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 2019 CCR (pg. 30, 39 and 42-47)
Anti-Corruption
GRI 205: Anti-Corruption 2016
103-1  
103-2  
103-3Management approach Our Chief Legal and Compliance Officer (CLCO) has responsibility to implement and maintain an effective ethics and compliance program. 
She is assisted in that role by our SVP of Ethics & Compliance, who administers the program. Our Board’s Audit Committee oversees our 
ethics and compliance program. Segment compliance committees comprised of the top segment executives meet regularly to support 
the program. In addition, we have a robust ethics and compliance organization with compliance professionals who work alongside 
business leaders throughout the world.
2019 CCR (pg. 59-60)
Boundary: Communities, Customers, Investors, Policymakers, Suppliers
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 2019 CCR (pg. 60)
205-2 Communication and training about  
anti-corruption policies and procedures2019 CCR (pg. 60)GRI 200-400 Topic-Specific Disclosures 2016*
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    67 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index GRI Standard/
DisclosureDescription Page/Comment
Energy
GRI 302: Energy 2016
103-1  
103-2  
103-3Management approach Our environmental governance and management systems are part of an integrated environmental, health and safety (EHS)  
management approach. The Vice President, EHS leads our EHS management efforts and elevates matters when required to the  
SVP , Corporate Security and the CHRO. Our Board’s Nominating and Governance Committee oversees environmental sustainability  
and other corporate citizenship activities.
2019 CCR (pg. 49 and 51-54)
Boundary: Communities, Customers, Investors, Policymakers
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization We consumed 5,281,000 gigajoules (GJ) of energy during FY19, including 5,278,000 GJ from non-renewable sources (diesel fuel, motor 
gasoline, jet kerosene, liquified propane gas and natural gas) and 2,050 GJ from renewable fuel sources (solar PV production). We 
purchased 2,391,000 GJ of electricity. 
Our total energy consumption was aggregated using standard reporting methodology published by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and 
The Climate Registry General Reporting Protocol. All conversion factors were aligned with The Climate Registry 2019 Table 1.1 where 
possible; otherwise, conversions used were from the U.S. Energy Information Association.
Emissions
GRI 305: Emissions 2016
103-1  
103-2  
103-3Management approach Please refer to GRI 302 for a description of our management approach to EHS matters.
Boundary: Communities, Customers, Investors, Policymakers
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 2019 CCR (pg. 51)
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 2019 CCR (pg. 51)
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 2019 CCR (pg. 51)
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    68 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index GRI Standard/
DisclosureDescription Page/Comment
Environmental Compliance
GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016
103-1  
103-2  
103-3Management approach Please refer to GRI 302 for a description of our management approach to EHS matters.
Boundary: Communities, Investors, Policymakers
307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws  
and regulationsWe did not receive any significant regulatory environmental non-compliance notices or fines during FY19.
Supplier Environmental Assessment
GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016
103-1  
103-2  
103-3Management approach Our Vendor Code of Conduct  states that Cardinal Health is committed to the highest standard of business ethics and integrity around 
the world and our continued success depends on our employees, vendors and business partners acting with honesty and integrity while 
conducting business with or on behalf of Cardinal Health. The Vendor Code of Conduct sets forth the basic requirements that all suppliers 
must comply with to do business with Cardinal Health and requires, among other things, that suppliers must comply with the labor and 
employment practices specified in the Code of Conduct and must develop and implement policies and procedures that are protective of 
human safety, health and the environment.
Lead responsibility for Cardinal Health’s supply chain sits jointly with our EVP , Global Sourcing who reports to the CEO, Pharmaceutical 
segment and our President, Global Manufacturing and Supply Chain who reports to the CEO, Medical segment. These executives are 
supported by dedicated procurement leaders who specialize in various supplier categories.
2019 CCR (pg. 38)
Boundary: Customers, Investors, Suppliers
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using 
environmental criteria2019 CCR (pg. 38)
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    69 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index GRI Standard/
DisclosureDescription Page/Comment
Employment
GRI 401: Employment 2016
103-1  
103-2  
103-3Management approach Responsibility for our human resources function sits with our CHRO who reports to our CEO. Our Human Resources and Compensation 
Committee provides Board-level oversight of this function, including overseeing and advising the Board about our human capital 
management strategies and policies, including with respect to attracting, developing, retaining and motivating management and employees, 
workplace diversity and inclusion initiatives and progress, employee relations and workplace safety and culture. Senior leaders specializing in 
various human resource specialties report to the CHRO.
2019 CCR (pg. 13-22)
Boundary: Prospective employees
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover We hired more than 12,700 employees in FY19 globally, including more than 7 ,100 in the U.S.
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees  
that are not provided to temporary or  
part-time employeesWe operate in several countries and benefit offerings vary accordingly. We offer competitive benefits based on local customs and 
practices which can include health and wellness benefits, savings programs to prepare for financial security and retirement, commuter 
subsidies to encourage the use of public transportation, time away from work benefits and flexible work arrangements when possible. 
2019 CCR (pg. 18)
Occupational Health and Safety
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018
103-1  
103-2  
103-3Management approach Please refer to GRI 302 for a description of our management approach to EHS matters. In addition, our Human Resources and 
Compensation Committee provides Board-level oversight of workplace safety.
2019 CCR (pg. 25-26)
Boundary: Prospective employees
403-9 Work-related injuries 2019 CCR (pg. 26)
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    70 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index GRI Standard/
DisclosureDescription Page/Comment
Training and Education
GRI 404: Training and Education 2016
103-1  
103-2  
103-3Management approach Please refer to GRI 401 for a description of our management approach to human resources matters.
2019 CCR (pg. 20-22)
Boundary: Prospective employees
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 2019 CCR (pg. 21)
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and 
transition assistance programs2019 CCR (pg. 20-22)
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 
performance and career development reviews2019 CCR (pg. 20)
Diversity and Equal Opportunity
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016
103-1
103-2
103-3Management approach Please refer to GRI 401 for a description of our management approach to human resources matters.
2019 CCR (pg. 13-17)
Boundary: Prospective employees
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 2019 CCR (pg. 13 and 57-58)
Local Communities
GRI 413: Local Communities 2016
103-1  
103-2  
103-3Management approach Please refer to GRI 203 for a description of our management approach to community relations and community initiatives to combat opioid misuse.
2019 CCR (pg. 42-47)
Boundary: Communities, Customers, Investors, Policymakers
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, 
impact assessments and development programs2019 CCR (pg. 42-47)
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    71 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index GRI Standard/
DisclosureDescription Page/Comment
Supplier Social Assessment
GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016
103-1  
103-2  
103-3Management approach Please refer to GRI 308 for a description of our management approach to supply chain management, including our  
Vendor Code of Conduct.
2019 CCR (pg. 38)
Boundary: Customers, Investors, Suppliers
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using  
social criteria2019 CCR (pg. 38)
Customer Health and Safety
GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016
103-1  
103-2  
103-3Management approach Responsibility for quality and regulatory matters across Cardinal Health sits with our EVP , Quality and Regulatory who reports to our CLCO. 
The EVP regularly conducts quality and regulatory reviews with the CEO of each segment. The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors 
oversees our quality and regulatory program. The Board formed a separate Surgical Gown Recall Oversight Committee of independent 
directors in January 2020 to assist the Board in overseeing the company’s response to a surgical gown recall that occurred during FY20.  
See our gown recall microsite  for more information.
2019 CCR (pg. 32-33 and 35-36)
Our CLCO has responsibility for oversight of our controlled substances anti-diversion compliance program and our defense of opioid 
litigation. Our SVP of Supply Chain Integrity, who reports to the CLCO, administers the anti-diversion compliance program. The Board’s Ad 
Hoc Committee comprised of independent directors assists the Board in its oversight of opioid-related issues. 
2019 CCR (pg. 30)
Boundary: Customers, Investors, Suppliers
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts  
of product and service categories2019 CCR (pg. 32-33 and 35-36) 
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    72 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index © 2020 Cardinal Health. All Rights Reserved. CARDINAL HEALTH, the Cardinal Health LOGO, ESSENTIAL TO CARE, OPTIFREIGHT and SUSTAINABLE TECHNOLOGIES are trademarks 
of Cardinal Health and may be registered in the US and/or in other countries. All other marks are the property of their respective owners. Lit. No. 5PR20-1220652 (07/2020)GRI Standard/
DisclosureDescription Page/Comment
Customer Privacy
GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016
103-1  
103-2  
103-3Management  approach Our Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) and our Chief Information Officer (CIO), who reports to the CEO, oversee our programs to 
prevent, detect, contain and respond to information security incidents. The Board’s Audit Committee oversees our major information 
technology risk exposures and the steps management has taken to monitor and control such exposures. The Board and Audit Committee 
have received regular updates on our cybersecurity programs. Assisting in program oversight are an Information Technology Risk 
Governance Committee, in which the CIO and CLCO participate, and a Privacy Committee. Both committees are cross-functional and 
comprised of senior managers and meet on a regular basis. 
2019 CCR (pg. 37)
Boundary: Customers, Investors
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches  
of customer privacy and losses of customer data2019 CCR (pg. 37)
Socioeconomic Compliance
GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016
103-1  
103-2  
103-3Management approach Please refer to GRI 205 and GRI 416 for a description of our management approach to ethics and compliance, quality and regulatory 
matters and anti-diversion compliance program.
Boundary: Customers, Investors, Suppliers
419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in  
the social and economic areaWe report on significant incidents of noncompliance, and any allegations of significant incidents of noncompliance, in our Forms 10-K and 
10-Q filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
*Cardinal Health’s 2019 Corporate Citizenship Report applies the 2016 version of the GRI Standards. “2016” refers to the Standards issue date, not the date of information presented in this report.
2019 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    73 Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           GRI index 