CorporateCitizenship2018
Report
Cardinal HealthMessage from Mike Kaufmann   ...................  3
About Cardinal Health   ........................................  5
Our People  ....................................................................  6
Our Customers & Partners  ............................  15
Our Communities  .................................................  24
Our Environment  .................................................  32
Governance & Ethics  .........................................  37
About this report  .................................................  43In this report
Headquarters in  
Dublin, Ohio
$137 billion  
in annual revenueApproximately  
50,000  
employees   
worldwide
Locations in  
46 countries   
around the globe
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    2 Table of Contents        |       People         |        Customers & Partners         |        Communities         |        Environment         |        Governance & Ethics  It all begins with our people
Fostering an environment where employees feel they 
can bring 100 percent of themselves to work is critically 
important to me. It shapes everything we do.
Prior to becoming CEO, I sponsored our Women’s Initiative 
Network employee resource group (ERG). Now, as CEO,  
I am proud to oversee our Diversity and Inclusion Council, 
which represents the voices of our employees across a 
variety of dimensions — a group that feels empowered  
and accountable to provide candid, direct feedback from  
our employees to our leadership.  
Supporting our communities
We have a rich history of strengthening the communities 
where our employees live and work. We support 
healthcare organizations as they work to improve  
patient safety. We support the American Heart  
Association, Pelotonia, the arts and much more.Trust. Accountability. Respect. These values are 
at the foundation of who we are and what we 
believe. They describe how we treat each other, 
how we treat our customers and partners and 
how we do business.
As a global corporate citizen, Cardinal Health 
serves many roles: Employer, neighbor, an 
essential part of the healthcare system and more. 
In this Corporate Citizenship Report, we are 
proud to share how we live by our values.Message from Mike Kaufmann
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    3 Table of Contents        |       People         |        Customers & Partners         |        Communities         |        Environment         |        Governance & Ethics  We also inspire our employees to give back. Over the past 
year, our employees devoted thousands of hours volunteering 
in their communities, and donated more than $1 million to 
causes that are important to them. Caring about others is a 
central part of our culture. 
Many of us at Cardinal Health have been personally affected 
by the opioid epidemic. We care deeply about this issue and 
its devastating impact, and are committed to finding and 
supporting solutions. In November 2017 , we launched the 
Opioid Action Program (OAP), which grew out of our 10-year 
commitment to Generation Rx, an open source, evidence-
informed prevention education program. 
The OAP was created to bring additional resources to help fight 
the opioid epidemic in some of the hardest hit communities. 
In the short term, we focused on initiatives with immediate 
benefits, including drug take-back events, safe disposal and 
Narcan ® donations to law enforcement and first responders. 
Understanding that the complexity of the opioid epidemic 
requires multiple efforts and a long-term approach, we also 
invested in developing a curriculum around safe prescribing 
practices with The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown 
University, and awarding grants to expand prevention education.
Through our Foundation, we continue to focus significant 
time and effort to help develop workable and meaningful 
contributions to solutions to address this public health crisis.Working sustainably
In the broadest sense, our community is planet Earth. We all 
must do our part to sustain our planet and ensure its health  
for generations to come.
One of our headquarters buildings in Dublin, OH, is  
Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) 
certified. Around the globe, we are implementing programs  
to minimize waste, optimize energy use and boost recycling  
to reduce our carbon footprint.
The examples I’ve highlighted here just scratch the surface of 
what our approximately 50,000 people do every day. The stories 
you’ll read in this report bring to life what it means to work at 
Cardinal Health and demonstrate why I’ve chosen to stay here 
for 28 years. I am so proud of what we do for our customers, our 
communities, the environment and each other — every day.
Sincerely, 
Mike Kaufmann  
Chief Executive Officer
Employees in Rayong, Thailand, 
organized a local bike ride to 
raise money for Pelotonia, an 
annual, Columbus-based cycling 
event  that raises money for 
cancer research.
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    4 Table of Contents        |       People         |        Customers & Partners         |        Communities         |        Environment         |        Governance & Ethics  Headquartered in Dublin, Ohio, Cardinal Health is a global, 
integrated healthcare services and products company. We 
provide customized solutions for hospitals, health systems, 
pharmacies, ambulatory surgery centers, clinical laboratories 
and physician offices around the world.
Backed by nearly 100 years of experience , Cardinal Health 
ranks among the top 14 on the Fortune 500 .Being a good corporate citizen is as much about how we 
work as it is about the work we do. 
Every day, our approximately 50,000 employees in  
46 countries  leverage their experience and expertise to 
reduce healthcare costs and improve the lives of patients.  
We aim to create work environments where every one of  
our employees can thrive, professionally and personally.  As a company and as employees, we strengthen the 
communities where we live and work. And we work to 
minimize our businesses’ impact on the environment.
Unless otherwise noted, this report reflects our corporate 
citizenship during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018 (FY18). About Cardinal Health
We serve more than  
26,000 pharmaciesWe’re in nearly 85%   
of U.S. hospitals
We deliver more than  
53,000  laboratory products 
to more than 6,700  labsWe serve more than 
10,000  specialty 
physician offices and clinics
We support nearly  
3 million  patients  
with more than 45,000  
home healthcare products
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    5 Table of Contents        |       People         |        Customers & Partners         |        Communities         |        Environment         |        Governance & Ethics  PeopleOUR
Our goal is to make Cardinal Health a place where every employee 
brings their best and does their best work, every day. Ours is an 
inclusive culture where employees can develop their skills, make deep 
connections with each other and thrive in their careers, while they 
make a positive impact on both our customers and our communities.““
Ola Snow  
Chief Human Resources Officer
At Cardinal Health, we help our 
people connect, develop and 
thrive at work, at home and in 
their communities. 
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    6 Table of Contents        |       People        |        Customers & Partners         |        Communities         |        Environment         |        Governance & Ethics  At Cardinal Health, we’re committed to our 
employees’ total well-being, and help them to 
connect, develop and thrive throughout their 
careers. That means helping them engage at  
work and in their communities and to find  
purpose in their lives and careers. It means  
offering choices that help each employee  
do well, physically, mentally and financially. 
Each employee’s journey to achieve total well-being is unique.  
It begins with an orientation and onboarding experience that 
helps connect them to the company and each other. From 
that point, employees have access to ongoing development 
opportunities, including mentoring relationships and regular  
goal setting and performance reviews.
In the U.S., benefits include medical, dental and vision care 
coverage, a paid time off plan, a 401(k) savings plan, paid  
parental leave, healthy lifestyles programs and more.Focused on inclusion
We know that an inclusive culture helps us to attract and retain 
the very best talent. An inclusive culture inspires more innovations 
and produces better, more far-reaching products and services. 
We seek inclusion throughout our workforce and across our 
businesses, and track diversity as a measure of our success. Of  
our global workforce, women make up 49 percent; 45 percent 
of our workforce in the United States is ethnically diverse. Our 
executive leadership team of eight includes three women and  
two ethnically diverse people. 
Every day, our talent acquisition team works closely with hiring 
managers to connect with potential employees through many 
channels: All open positions are posted to thousands of job boards, 
including national and global sites, HBCU Connect (targeted to the 
Historically Black College and University community), hundreds of 
diversity websites, all 50 state workforce agencies, military networks 
and college alumni groups. The talent and acquisition team and our 
business leaders also regularly attend events geared toward veteran 
recruitment and networking. We participate in the Employer 
Partnership of the Armed Forces, and we recruit veterans through 
job boards for the military and returning veterans.Living for what matters
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    7 Table of Contents        |       People        |        Customers & Partners         |        Communities         |        Environment         |        Governance & Ethics  We believe in fostering an inclusive, team-
oriented culture where every employee feels 
respected, supported and connected and is 
comfortable bringing 100 percent of themselves 
to work. This requires the commitment of each 
of us every day. We can help shape the future 
of healthcare around the globe when we 
maximize the contributions of all.
Toward that goal, CEO Mike Kaufmann signed the  
CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion™ pledge to  
support open dialogue on D&I, share best practices and 
implement unconscious bias training in the organization.
CEO Kaufmann and CHRO Ola Snow are executive sponsors 
of our Diversity and Inclusion Council, created to embed 
inclusion into our company’s DNA. The group is comprised 
of 17 senior business leaders, and chaired by Ramon Gregory, 
Senior Vice President of Customer Support Services. The 
Council is charged with recommending diversity and inclusion 
goals, priorities and metrics to our executive team. The D&I Council works closely with Chief Diversity Officer  
and Vice President of D&I, Devray Kirkland, who provides 
direction to individual businesses on tactical programs and 
systems related to attracting, retaining and promoting a 
diverse workforce.Diversity and Inclusion 
Workplace diversity is a key component 
of business success.  Our D&I Council 
was created to drive relevant, significant 
and timely change, with strategies initially 
focused on ethnic and gender diversity at 
the director level and above.““
Ramon Gregory  
Sr. Vice President, Customer Support 
Services and Chair, D&I Council
Diversity and Inclusion Steering Council
Executive Co-Chairs: 
Steve Mason, President, Cardinal Health at Home
Tiffany Olson , President, Nuclear & Precision Health Solutions
Chair:  Ramon  Gregory , Sr. Vice President, Customer Support Services
Vice Chair: Melissa  Laber , Sr. Vice President, OptiFreight ® Logistics
Members: 
Dan Movens , Sr. Vice President, ParMed Pharmaceutical
Emily  Gallo , Vice President, Product and Solutions Marketing
Jennifer  Fillman , Vice President, Specialty Services
Jia Lian , Vice President, APAC Commercial
Michelle  Britt , Vice President, Territory Sales
Mike  Pintek , Sr. Vice President, Customer Operations  
and Business Development
Preety  Sidhu , Vice President, Marketing
Shane  Abeyratne , Vice President, Multi-Function Management
Snehal  Desai , Vice President, Software Engineering
Stephanie  Revish , Vice President, Financial Planning and Analysis
Stu Kim, Vice President, Associate General Counsel
Talvis  Love , Sr. Vice President, Pharmaceutical IT
Travis  Leonard , Sr. Vice President, Treasurer
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    8 Table of Contents        |       People        |        Customers & Partners         |        Communities         |        Environment         |        Governance & Ethics  Women in the workplace
Equitable treatment is a key priority for our CEO and executive leaders. We participated in the largest 
comprehensive study of the state of women in corporate America, Women in the Workplace , published 
by McKinsey & Company and LeanIn.org. In 2018, 279 companies employing more than 13 million 
people shared their pipeline data and completed a survey of HR practices for the report. 64,000 
employees were surveyed on their workplace experiences. 
The report shows that Cardinal Health compares well to other companies in the survey, in terms of 
percentage of women employed from entry level through management. The report notes that we 
have many policies and programs in place to support women and gender equity and diversity in 
the workplace, including: 
We plan to use the results as a benchmark for improvement moving forward. As part of that, each 
of our 20 senior-most executives recently received anti-sexual harassment training, led by seasoned 
outside employment law counsel.Veterans in the workplace
We know that those who have served in the military have values that can’t be 
taught, like duty, honor and integrity. That’s why we actively recruit and hire 
veterans, and encourage other employers to do the same.
Our support of veterans was recognized several years ago with the Secretary of 
Defense Employer Support Freedom Award. This is the U.S. government’s highest 
recognition given to employers for their support of employees who serve in the 
National Guard and Reserve. 
For separated and soon-to-be separated service members and their 
spouses who are seeking employment, we offer a free Veterans Professional 
Advancement Course (VPAC). VPAC was created by veterans; it is a professional 
development and mentoring program designed to provide the skills to 
successfully transition into the civilian workplace.
Veterans bring real life experiences and leadership skills 
that help strengthen us as teams and as a company.““
Scot Lindsey   
Sr. Vice President, Enterprise Infrastructure 
and military veteran
• Prioritizing gender and racial diversity
• Tracking data on gender representation and 
ethnicity across levels
• Setting clear, consistent criteria for evaluating 
candidates in hiring, performance reviews  
or promotions
• Requiring a diverse slate of candidates to be 
considered for open positions and promotions
• Tracking hiring outcomes and performance 
ratings to check for bias • Having clear policies and guidelines to  
prevent discrimination and harassment
• Prioritizing training programs for  
increasing inclusivity or reducing bias
• Offering training on managing or  
working with diverse teams
• Offering formal mentorships for 
underrepresented groups
• Offering child care support
• Offering flexible work policies
• Offering bereavement leave
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    9 Table of Contents        |       People        |        Customers & Partners         |        Communities         |        Environment         |        Governance & Ethics  Once on board, our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs), 
which provide onboarding, networking and professional 
development opportunities for employees at all levels, help 
create a strong community across the company. Each ERG is 
sponsored by one of Cardinal Health’s 20 senior-most leaders.
More than 5,240 employees participate in these ERGs: 
In Twinsburg, OH, and Little Rock, AR, Multi-Cultural Councils 
are designed to engage all local employees in diversity,  
equity and inclusion and cultural awareness.  
In addition, hundreds of employees create and participate  
in more informal Interest Groups and Clubs (IGCs).  
Among these groups in the U.S. are Parents at Work,  
the Cardinal Health Orchestra, an Employee Activities  
Committee and the Alzheimer’s Network. In the Philippines, 
employees have created nearly a dozen IGCs, organizing 
around their interests in sports, dance, inclusion, the arts, 
robotics and more.Advancing D&I in the workplace and in our communities
• As a sponsor of the National Urban League Conference (left) held  
in Columbus, OH, we sponsored an on-site job fair.
• We regularly participate in various recruiting events, including a 
networking event with the National Association of Black Accountants; 
the annual conference and career fair of the National Sales Network, a 
minority sales organization; and a networking and career fair event for 
veteran students enrolled in STEM majors at The Ohio State University.
• Each year, we sponsor the Pride Festival in Columbus, OH.
• African American Network
• Asian Pacific American 
Network
• Disability Advocates 
Network
• Equality Network• Hispanic American Network
• Veterans and Military 
Advocates Network
• Women’s Initiative 
Network
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    10 Table of Contents        |       People        |        Customers & Partners         |        Communities         |        Environment         |        Governance & Ethics  We want every employee to be able to live 
life to the fullest. When our employees are 
healthy, physically, emotionally and financially, 
they’re stronger at work and at home and more 
engaged in their communities. 
Our Healthy Lifestyles program features an interactive website 
where employees can access a free, confidential health 
assessment, have online chats with licensed physicians, 
participate in health challenges and access live sessions with 
health coaches. An active network of employee Healthy 
Lifestyles Champions supports the program.
We recently restructured our 401(k) match to benefit frontline 
workers. And we offer financial education on a variety of 
essential topics, including basic budgeting, buying a first 
home, saving for college and expanding personal savings 
through health savings accounts (HSAs).
We encourage employees to better deal with stress through 
mindfulness or guided meditation. In the U.S., we’ve recently 
launched a two-day course on mindfulness, compassion and empathy and will soon offer a free subscription to an online 
platform that provides guided meditation. 
Through our Employee Assistance Program, available to 
all  employees and their families, we provide access to 
professional, confidential services to address both emotional 
concerns and financial stresses. Employees and their families 
can call a 24/7 toll-free line to reach a licensed mental health 
professional for consultation, information, help and resources 
on a variety of issues, including depression, substance use 
disorders, anxiety and stress.  
Finally, we support a work-life balance, where employees are 
encouraged to disconnect from work during their off hours. Building a culture of well-being                                                                                                                                       
At Cardinal Health, we put a high priority on 
supporting our employees holistically. We 
want them to thrive — physically, mentally 
and financially — so they can lead the lives 
they want and plan for a secure future. ““
Ola Snow  
Chief Human Resources Officer
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    11 Table of Contents        |       People        |        Customers & Partners         |        Communities         |        Environment         |        Governance & Ethics  Global human rights and labor standards
In FY18, we adopted Global Human Rights and Labor Standards, which 
state that we strive to conduct our business in a manner that demonstrates 
respect for human rights and the dignity of all people and have the following 
principles, among others: 
• Diversity and inclusion: Our Standards of Business Conduct articulate our 
commitment to an inclusive and diverse workforce.
• Fair treatment:  We have a harassment and bullying prevention policy that 
addresses the rules and guidelines in place to provide a workplace that is free 
from harassment and discrimination of any kind.
• Freedom from forced labor: We will not use or engage in any form of 
coerced, bonded, indentured or prison labor. All work is voluntary, and 
employees are free to leave or terminate their employment in accordance 
with laws and regulations and without fear of physical, psychological, 
sexual or verbal abuse.
• Hours of labor: We require that working hours are consistent with laws 
and regulations and are not otherwise excessive.
• Fair compensation: We comply with minimum wage, overtime and 
maximum hour rules that are established by laws and regulations.• Free of child labor: We do not allow child labor in our operations.
• Work environment:  We will maintain healthy, clean and safe work 
environments and will not utilize mental or physical disciplinary practices.
• Immigration law compliance:  We comply with immigration laws and 
regulations and only employ workers with a legal right to work.
• Freedom of association:  We respect the freedom of association.Employment practices
As a business, Cardinal Health relies on the fair  
and equitable treatment of all people, around  
the globe . Innovation requires both collective effort 
and collective input that are possible only when  
human rights are supported.““
Tammy Gomez  
Sr. Vice President,  
Human Resources Business Partner
Learn more:
•  Equal employment 
opportunity/ 
nondiscrimination » 
•  Harassment and 
bullying prevention »
•  Employment  
of minors »
•  Modern slavery 
statement »
•  Global human rights 
and labor standards »
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    12 Table of Contents        |       People        |        Customers & Partners         |        Communities         |        Environment         |        Governance & Ethics  Our Environmental, Health & Safety (EHS) 
management system is designed to mitigate 
risk and prevent work-related illnesses, injuries  
and environmental incidents. 
• We provide comprehensive EHS courses to train 
operations personnel, including supervisors and managers, 
on identifying, correcting, avoiding and preventing job-
related hazards.
• We routinely perform industrial hygiene sampling to 
ensure workers using chemicals and those in noisier areas 
are properly protected. 
• We offer electrical safety courses, developed in partnership 
with a leader in live maintenance training, to focus on 
building skills with hands-on training critical to completing 
work competently and safely.
• We provide incident analysis training that offers a uniform 
approach to determine root causes and develop impactful 
mitigation actions.
In addition, we partner with a global leader in contractor safety 
programs to enhance contractor compliance and risk mitigation.Ergonomic and injury reduction initiatives
MSDs (musculoskeletal disorders) are soft tissue injuries of 
the muscles, nerves, tendon ligaments and spinal discs that 
develop over time and are among the most commonly-
reported work-related illnesses. MSDs can be caused by 
workplace ergonomic risk factors, including excessive forces, 
awkward postures and high frequencies of movement or 
long duration.
Ergonomics — the science of designing tasks to fit the 
worker — can significantly reduce the potential for MSDs 
and improve employee health, quality and productivity. At 
Cardinal Health, we assess ergonomic risk factors in numerous 
work environments, including manufacturing, distribution 
and office work areas. We continuously strive to enhance the 
safety and productivity of our diverse workplaces.
We have continued to integrate more ergonomic solutions 
and injury reduction initiatives into our operations to make 
our employees and contractors safer in the workplace. In 
FY18, our training and safety initiatives resulted in 391 jobs 
with a 20 percent or greater decrease in ergonomic risk score.One of the ways we measure our success in maintaining 
a safe work place at all our locations is through the Total 
Recordable Incident Rate*. In FY18, our total recordable 
incident rate was 1.36, down from 1.58 in FY17 .Health and safety initiatives
We have continued to integrate 
more ergonomic solutions and 
injury reduction initiatives into 
our operations.
*The Total Recordable Incident Rate is the total number of 
OSHA recordable incidents x 200,000 / total hours worked.
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    13 Table of Contents        |       People        |        Customers & Partners         |        Communities         |        Environment         |        Governance & Ethics  National Association for Female Executives  
Top 60 Company for Executive Women   
(7 years)
Omnikal  
America’s Top 50 Inclusion Corporations  
(Formerly Diversitybusiness.com) (3 years)
Forbes America’s  
Best Employers for Women
Human Rights Campaign  
Best Places to Work for LGBT Equality  
(100 percent score for 10 years in a row)
Aon Hewitt’s  
Best Employers in Puerto RicoBecker’s Healthcare  
150 Top Places to Work in Healthcare  
(5 years) 
JUST Capital America’s  
Most JUST companies  
(2 years)
Forbes Canada’s  
Best Employers 
2020 Women on Boards  
“W” Company  
(8 years)  Awards and recognitions
Values
Every employee understands the important role he 
or she plays in living by our values. Around the globe, 
these values unite us and shape our corporate culture.
• We are tenacious  in fulfilling our commitments  
to customers.
• We are accountable  for high performance and  
to each other.
• We are inventive  and adaptable .
• We bring a sense of optimism , enthusiasm   
and competitive spirit to our work.
• We are genuine , open , direct  and respectful .
• We can be trusted  to do the right thing.
• We are inclusive  and work together with 
confidence  and trust .
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    14 Table of Contents        |       People        |        Customers & Partners         |        Communities         |        Environment         |        Governance & Ethics  Our business principles and practices foster 
a strong, innovative and collaborative culture 
— one where we are all committed to ethical 
behavior, accountability and transparency.“ “
Jon Giacomin  
CEO, Medical Segment
We create value for all of our 
stakeholders by conducting 
our business with integrity and 
an innovative spirit. We lead by example and learn 
from experience. We set high 
standards for our people at  
all levels and work hard to 
meet them. Customers  
& PartnersOUR
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    15 Table of Contents        |       People         |        Customers & Partners        |        Communities         |        Environment         |        Governance & Ethics   Pharmaceutical Segment 
Through our Pharmaceutical segment, we distribute branded and 
generic pharmaceutical, specialty pharmaceutical and over-the-counter 
healthcare and consumer products in the United States. We provide 
services to pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers for 
specialty pharmaceutical products, operate nuclear pharmacies and 
radiopharmaceutical manufacturing facilities and provide pharmacy 
management services to hospitals. We also provide medication therapy 
management and patient outcomes services to hospitals, other  
healthcare providers and payers, and repackage generic  
pharmaceuticals and over-the-counter healthcare products. Medical Segment 
Through our Medical segment, we manufacture, source and distribute  
Cardinal Health-branded medical, surgical and laboratory products, which 
are sold in the United States, Canada, Europe, Asia and other markets. We 
also distribute a broad range of national brand products and provide supply 
chain services and solutions to hospitals, ambulatory surgery centers, clinical 
laboratories and other healthcare providers in the United States and Canada. 
We distribute medical products to patients’ homes in the United States. 
Early in FY18, we acquired the Patient Care, Deep Vein Thrombosis, and 
Nutritional Insufficiency businesses (the “Patient Recovery Business”) from 
Medtronic plc. The Patient Recovery Business manufactures 23 medical 
product categories, and its numerous industry-leading brands include 
CURITY™ , KENDALL ™ , DOVER™ , ARGYLE™  and KANGAROO™ .Our businesses
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    16 Table of Contents        |       People         |        Customers & Partners        |        Communities         |        Environment         |        Governance & Ethics   Anti-diversion:  At Cardinal Health, our role as a distributor of pharmaceutical products is 
to provide a safe, cost-efficient and secure channel to deliver medications of all kinds, from 
the hundreds of manufacturers who make them, to the thousands of pharmacies that 
dispense them. We help ensure that prescribers, pharmacists and patients have access to 
the medications they need — when and where they need them — because prescription 
medications, including prescription pain medications, are critical to patient care.
Unfortunately, the misuse of prescription pain medications has contributed to the opioid 
epidemic, a serious, complex public health crisis. We work diligently within our distribution 
channels to prevent the diversion of prescription pain medications. 
As a pharmaceutical distributor, we do not manufacture, promote or prescribe prescription 
medications to members of the public. However, we have a limited and important role, 
together with all participants in the prescription medication supply chain (including 
regulators, manufacturers, healthcare providers, pharmacists, insurers and patients), in  
helping to fight the opioid epidemic.Product and supply chain integrity
Cardinal Health has developed and implemented a constantly-adaptive  
and rigorous system to combat controlled substance diversion, including:
• Knowing our customers: We use a multi-factor process to evaluate pharmacies 
before they become our customer, including taking steps to understand their 
business and historical prescription drug ordering patterns.
• Site visits: We have a team of experienced investigators, including former 
DEA and state investigators, who regularly conduct customer site visits, both 
announced and unannounced.
• Electronic monitoring and analytics: Every order for a controlled substance 
passes through our order monitoring system, which tracks the order against 
threshold limits for each controlled substance family. If an order is deemed 
suspicious, it is canceled and reported to the DEA and applicable state regulators.
• Management Committee: We have a committee of senior anti-diversion and 
regulatory experts and supply chain integrity staff that meets regularly to evaluate 
customers with large-volume orders of controlled substances. 
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    17 Table of Contents        |       People         |        Customers & Partners        |        Communities         |        Environment         |        Governance & Ethics   Safety and security of the pharmaceutical 
supply chain
A safe and reliable drug supply is central to our 
customers’ business and critical to the health and well-
being of patients: The safety and security of our nation’s 
pharmaceutical supply is among our top priorities. We 
believe the fastest, safest and easiest way to secure the 
supply chain is by purchasing directly from the branded, 
generic or consumer health product manufacturers, then 
distributing those products directly to our customers.
We continue to implement measures to ensure the  
safety of our deliveries and of the people involved in  
those exchanges:
• We have strategically implemented GPS units on  
routes to customer delivery locations throughout  
the United States. 
• We work with regional couriers who make deliveries  
in unmarked vehicles with tinted windows.
• In the field, we audit the chain of custody process  
to ensure that each step of the process is followed.
• We regularly review crime data to determine  
our highest risk areas.• We ship all totes and cases containing controlled 
substances the same way we ship totes and cases  
that do not contain controlled substances.
• At the request of customers, we can vary delivery  
time to avoid a predictable, noticeable daily delivery.
• We work with various industry associations to stay  
current on the latest information on supply chain  
safety and security.
• We operate a centralized security operations and 
intelligence center 24/7 , where events are reported, 
tracked and responded to accordingly.
In accordance with applicable agreements, we follow 
manufacturers’ specific instructions to ensure the safe 
distribution of their products (including products that may 
be used for lethal injections), and have procedures in place 
designed to ensure that we maintain these standards.
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    18 Table of Contents        |       People         |        Customers & Partners        |        Communities         |        Environment         |        Governance & Ethics   Product quality:  We work to comply with legal and regulatory requirements in our 
distribution centers and manufacturing facilities around the globe, and to ensure that the 
products we distribute as well as the products we manufacture are safe and of high quality. 
Our procedures are designed to ensure compliance with global regulations, and establish 
standards for design, manufacturing and distribution of our products. We educate our 
employees about our quality systems and applicable regulatory requirements. We provide 
annual training on topics like Current Good Manufacturing Practices and reporting of 
complaints or product safety issues. We also provide appropriate training when we  
add new or revised quality system procedures.
Our businesses are responsible for product design and development, registration,  
qualification of private label suppliers, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, sourcing, 
warehousing, installation and servicing. They are supported by our Quality and  
Regulatory Affairs department, which has oversight and advisory responsibility. 
Our businesses maintain Corrective and Preventive Action (CAPA) systems, designed to:
• Recognize sources of non-conforming product
• Investigate and diagnose root causes of issues 
• Implement appropriate remedies and prevent recurrence 
Our businesses also operate management systems to effectively handle complaints for  
corrective action and continuous improvement.
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    19 Table of Contents        |       People         |        Customers & Partners        |        Communities         |        Environment         |        Governance & Ethics   Ensuring supply chain integrity
We have procedures in place to comply with U.S. Food & Drug Administration 
(FDA) product labeling and database requirements across our businesses. The 
FDA’s e-pedigree and electronic track and trace initiatives are designed to 
protect consumers from contaminated and counterfeit pharmaceuticals: Each 
unit of sale (like a bottle of pills) has a unique serial number that can be traced 
back to that pharmaceutical’s manufacturer. We have also implemented an FDA-
established unique device identification (UDI) system to identify medical devices 
through distribution and use.  
Keeping our businesses running through natural disasters  
and other events
We have a strong history of continuous service to our customers during natural 
disasters and human-made events, ensuring that our customers can continue 
caring for their patients. Our Business Resiliency Management team coordinates 
business operations and emergency preparedness procedures, so that each 
of our facilities can anticipate, respond to and stabilize a situation immediately. 
These preparedness plans comply with national, state and local regulatory 
agency policies; in collaboration with governmental agencies, we take quick 
action to protect lives, support our customers and ensure the continued 
integrity of our supply chain. We work closely with Healthcare Ready, a nonprofit 
organization that brings together public health and private sector groups to help 
strengthen healthcare supply chains before, during and after disasters.In every disaster, we prioritize three things: employee safety , keeping  
facilities up and running or getting them back online , and taking care 
of our customers . We take our responsibility of being essential to care very 
seriously. The products and services we provide keep healthcare systems 
operating in many locations when disasters strike. We have to be resilient.““
Carla Fernandez  
Sr. Vice President, Pharmaceutical Sales 
and Services, Puerto Rico
Helicopters filled with emergency supplies 
for employees and customers land near 
Houston just after Hurricane Harvey struck.
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    20 Table of Contents        |       People         |        Customers & Partners        |        Communities         |        Environment         |        Governance & Ethics   Employees take action after  
Hurricane Florence
When Hurricane Florence struck North Carolina, more than 
35 inches of rain fell in a 36-hour period in the small town of 
Whiteville. The four rivers surrounding the town overflowed, 
turning Whiteville into an island, flooding homes and forcing 
many residents to seek temporary shelter.   
Ronnie Strickland, Regional Director of Pharmacy, took it 
upon himself to seek help for his neighbors. Through our 
Community Relations team, he connected with one of our 
relief agency partners.  
The relief agency helped Ronnie secure 2,000 pairs of gloves 
and 1,200 masks for healthcare providers, plus 45 cases 
of personal hygiene kits (antibacterial soap, toothbrush, 
toothpaste, washcloth, etc.) to give to those who had been 
displaced by the floods. One week after the storm hit, Ronnie 
and his 15-year-old son delivered the kits to four relief centers. 
Word of Ronnie’s support spread quickly, and he received 
more calls to help. The relief agency sent an additional 90 cases of hygiene kits 
directly to Whiteville 
via boat. 
Three weeks after 
the storm when the 
schools reopened, 
many students in 
the area’s schools — 
including his son’s 
— were still living 
in shelters. With tarps covered his own storm-damaged roof, 
Ronnie continued to help, delivering more hygiene kits and 
food supplies for the students.
In all, Ronnie procured more than 2,500 personal hygiene kits 
from the relief agency. “This has been an eye-opening life 
lesson for my son, and I’m glad we were able to help some 
people out,” Ronnie said.Ensuring safety and business continuity in times of disaster
In 2017 , there were Hurricanes Maria, 
Harvey and Irma and a major earthquake 
in Mexico. In 2018, there were wild fires 
and Hurricane Florence. Our disaster 
teams were on high alert for several 
months. And we were among the first 
organizations to be able to respond to 
our customer and employee needs .““
Greg Halvacs  
Sr. Vice President and  
Chief Security Officer
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    21 Table of Contents        |       People         |        Customers & Partners        |        Communities         |        Environment         |        Governance & Ethics   The continued success of Cardinal Health depends on  
our vendors and business partners acting with honesty  
and integrity while conducting business with or on  
behalf of Cardinal Health.
Cardinal Health does business with more than 20,000 suppliers in the  
U.S. and around the globe.
Supplier compliance:  All our vendors are required to comply with our 
vendor code of conduct, which addresses compliance with the law,  
labor practices and human rights, and environment, health and safety 
standards, among other topics.
Supplier quality assurance: For Cardinal Health-branded medical products 
and pharmaceutical proprietary brands that we manufacture or source, we 
conduct initial and periodic quality assurance reviews for select suppliers.Supplier diversity: We focus on diversity and inclusion in our supplier  
base. We develop and foster strategic business relationships with large  
and small businesses owned by ethnic minorities, women, veterans and 
lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender individuals. We participate in  
outreach and networking events where we share programs, best  
practices and opportunities with diverse suppliers. We also develop and 
mentor diverse businesses through advocacy groups and customers. 
• FY18 spend: $3.6 billion with diverse suppliers
• 300 suppliers owned by women or minorities
• 2,700+ diverse supplier partner relationships, inclusive of small  
businesses, HUBZone-based businesses, and businesses owned by 
minorities, women, veteran and service-disabled veterans, and  
lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender individualsSourcing responsibly
Learn more: 
• Vendor code of 
conduct »
• Conflict minerals 
policy »
• Diverse supplier 
inclusion policy »
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    22 Table of Contents        |       People         |        Customers & Partners        |        Communities         |        Environment         |        Governance & Ethics   Supplier diversity spotlights  
We award business to suppliers through  
a competitive process, based on best  
overall value including experience, quality, 
capacity, diversity and price. Here are a few  
of our diverse suppliers.
Net Pac 
Net Pac International, a nationally recognized supplier of 
packaging, maintenance, repair, operational and janitorial 
solutions, is a certified Minority Business Enterprise (MBE), 
Women Business Enterprise (WBE) and Disadvantaged  
Business Enterprise (DBE) headquartered in Columbus,  
Ohio. Net Pac has been a value-added supplier of packaging 
consumables to Cardinal Health since 201 1, earning them  
an opportunity for a mentor-protégé relationship and 
participation in the Ohio Minority Supplier Development 
Council’s Center of Excellence Program.SGM  
SGM is a minority-owned business established in 2007 in 
the south suburbs of Chicago. The company distributes 
commodity and specialty chemicals to Fortune 500 companies 
in the food, pharmaceutical, personal care, resin/coating and 
chemical manufacturing industries; its core competency is 
supplying bulk loads throughout North and South America. 
Since 201 1, SGM has supplied Cardinal Health facilities in 
the United States and in the European Union with sodium 
thiosulfate pentahydrate, a key ingredient in hot and cold packs. 
 
Hydrox Laboratories 
Hydrox Laboratories, a minority-owned manufacturer of 
hydrogen peroxide, rubbing alcohol and surgical instrument 
care products, was originally established in 1913. Today, it is  
one of the oldest continuously running manufacturing 
companies in the United States. Hydrox Laboratories is one 
of the few MBE-certified manufacturers of health and beauty 
products in the country, and has been a Cardinal Health 
supplier for more than 30 years.
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    23 Table of Contents        |       People         |        Customers & Partners        |        Communities         |        Environment         |        Governance & Ethics   CommunitiesOUR
At Cardinal Health, employees 
at every level put a high priority 
on making their communities 
stronger. Giving back is both a 
privilege and a responsibility  
for all of us.““
Jessie Cannon  
VP , Community Relations
At Cardinal Health, our 
philanthropic efforts are focused 
primarily on patient safety, 
strengthening the communities 
where our employees live and 
work, supporting employee 
engagement in their local 
communities and, in the  
United States, fighting the 
opioid epidemic. In FY18, we donated more  
than $10.4 million toward  
these goals through a 
combination of funds from  
the Foundation and the 
company. In addition, we 
contributed more than $7.7 
million in product donations  
to disaster relief organizations 
and other nonprofits.Each year, $2 million of  
the Foundation’s giving 
matches employee giving  
and volunteerism.
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    24 Table of Contents        |       People         |        Customers & Partners         |        Communities        |        Environment         |        Governance & Ethics   In Phoenix, Arizona, the Banner Health  Foundation  created a high-tech, high-touch in-home care 
delivery model for healthcare super-users in a medically underserved region. While representing only 
about five percent of all patients in this region, they account for about half of healthcare spending. 
Through home health equipment and tablets, patients interact directly with their telehealth team and 
an in-person certified nursing assistant provides hands-on care and liaises with the rest of the care team. 
In one year, the program reduced hospitalizations by 45 percent, saved 2,214 hospital days and 
saved nearly $6.9 million in healthcare costs. 
Ballad Health in Johnson City, Tennessee , provides a “chairside concierge” for oncology patients to get 
prescriptions filled quickly. The concierge, a pharmacist, meets with patients at the health systems’ cancer 
centers, works with insurance companies to get necessary authorizations and helps patients get access 
to medication assistance options. Pharmacy technicians follow patients through their treatment, offering 
medication instructions, counseling, nutrition information and care and recovery support. In one year, the 
program decreased patients’ out-of-pocket medicine costs by more than $750,000 and saved 850 
hospital days and nearly $3.7 million in healthcare costs.
Senior patients transitioning from hospital to home were the focus of a transitions model created by 
the Southeastern  Virginia  Areawide  Model  Program  and the Area Agency on Aging in Norfolk, 
Virginia . The model surrounds high-risk patients with a multi-functional care team that follows the 
patient post-discharge; supervised student pharmacists make home visits to the highest-risk patients.  
In one year, the program reduced 30-day readmissions from about 19 percent to just under  
1 1 percent and saved 180 hospital days and nearly $450,000.Patient safety
Through grants and awards, we partner with 
many experts and innovators across the country to 
increase patient safety. Joining with others allows us 
to learn, pilot projects and share best practices. 
Last year, we donated more than $500,000 to 11 healthcare 
organizations  that received multi-year E3 (Effectiveness, 
Efficiency and Excellence in Healthcare) grants to improve 
medication safety. Our total commitment to these organizations 
is $1.7 million over three years. 
Since launching the E3 program nine years ago, we have invested 
more than $9 million in hundreds of healthcare organizations 
working to improve patient outcomes and reduce healthcare costs. 
These organizations are embedding improvements at a rate that 
outpaces industry norms: According to The National Institutes 
of Health, it takes an average of 17 years for evidence-based 
practices to be fully embedded into healthcare practices. Yet 
within a year, our grantees are reducing hospital readmissions, 
reducing lengths-of-stay, helping to improve the quality of life  
of patients and reducing healthcare costs. On this page we 
highlight a few of our past grantees’ results.
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    25 Table of Contents        |       People         |        Customers & Partners         |        Communities        |        Environment         |        Governance & Ethics   We are committed to supporting vibrant, 
healthy communities. We work in partnership 
with non-profit organizations to develop 
responses to health, education and social  
needs in the communities where our 
employees live and work. We know that 
the arts help transform communities, and 
we support a variety of arts organizations, 
particularly in Central Ohio, where  
Cardinal Health is headquartered.Strengthening our communities
Giving highlights
Every year, Cardinal Health employees join in 
raising money and awareness for diabetes, 
juvenile diabetes, cancer, Ronald McDonald 
House and many more health-related causes. 
Two of the largest are the American Heart 
Association Heart Walk and Pelotonia.AHA Heart Walk
516 
Employees  
and familiesRaised more than 
$173,000   
for heart and  
stroke researchThird-highest 
fundraising  
company in 
Central OhioPelotonia
323  
Riders, virtual riders  
and volunteersRaised more than  
$307 ,000  
for cancer research
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    26 Table of Contents        |       People         |        Customers & Partners         |        Communities        |        Environment         |        Governance & Ethics   We empower our employees to support the philanthropic causes 
that align with their personal passions — creating an environment 
where people are highly engaged in their communities. By 
partnering with employees, the company finds innovative and 
practical solutions to problems facing communities today. 
Employee involvement is multi-faceted. Employees support events by running, biking 
or walking for causes important to them — and raise millions of dollars each year. They 
share professional skills — in human resources, operational excellence, management, 
strategy, marketing and other areas — with nonprofits. Employees at all levels 
participate on the boards of nonprofit organizations, often in leadership capacities. 
Employees supporting employees
We have a non-profit, tax-exempt charitable fund that serves as a financial resource for 
employees dealing with unexpected crises like natural disasters. Called the Associates 
Fund, it is operated by Cardinal Health employees. In response to the 2017 hurricanes 
in Texas, Florida and Puerto Rico, which impacted hundreds of our employees, the 
Associates Fund provided recovery support to more than 800 of those who were 
displaced from their homes or otherwise devastated by the storms.Employee engagement: mobilizing our greatest resource
Employees around the world engage in 
their communities ( clockwise from top left) : 
In Thailand, employees organized a blood 
donation drive; in Hudson, WI, employees 
teach the community about medication 
safety with Generation Rx resources; and 
colleagues in Mexico support American Heart 
Association’s Go Red for Women.
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    27 Table of Contents        |       People         |        Customers & Partners         |        Communities        |        Environment         |        Governance & Ethics   For a decade, the Cardinal Health Foundation has been involved  
in prevention through Generation Rx, created in partnership with  
The Ohio State University College of Pharmacy. 
Since 2009, the Foundation has invested millions of dollars in educating people of all ages 
about the dangers of prescription drug misuse. Our colleagues, along with countless teachers, 
healthcare providers and community volunteers, have given thousands of hours to teach 
prevention education at schools, senior centers and throughout their communities.
Generation Rx was built on three simple but effective messages:
• Only use prescription medications as directed by your health professional.
• Never share your prescription medications, and never use someone else’s  
prescription medications.
• Always store your medications securely and properly dispose of medications that  
you no longer need.
To date, more than 1.6 million people across every state in the country have been reached with 
critical Generation Rx prevention messages, and students in more than 100 colleges of pharmacy 
have taught Generation Rx programs on their campuses or their larger communities.Fighting the opioid epidemic and 
preventing prescription drug misuse
Each year, employees in locations 
throughout the U.S. reach children 
in grades K-12 with the prevention 
education messages of Generation Rx. 
Often, they join pharmacists or student 
pharmacists to deliver the messages.
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    28 Table of Contents        |       People         |        Customers & Partners         |        Communities        |        Environment         |        Governance & Ethics   Opioid Action Program
In November 2017 , Cardinal Health launched its Opioid Action Program (OAP) with an investment of $10 million. The OAP grew 
out of our commitment to Generation Rx. The OAP focused primarily on Ohio, Kentucky, Tennessee and West Virginia — four 
of the states hit hardest by the opioid epidemic. 
From its genesis, we focused on initiatives with both immediate impact, like drug take-back programs, safe disposal and 
Narcan ® donations, as well as multiple, long-term strategies, including medical school safe prescribing curriculum development 
at The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University and grants to support prevention education, reduce opioid 
prescribing and support collaborative community work at the local level.
We are currently developing strategic plans to work with partners to increase reach and scope with various initiatives. 
Learn more at cardinalhealth.com/OpioidActionProgram » “All of us at Cardinal Health care deeply 
about the devastating impact the opioid 
epidemic has had on our communities. 
Like so many across this nation, we have 
family members, friends and colleagues 
who have been impacted by opioid 
abuse and misuse. We are committed 
to working with others to help find 
solutions to this complex national 
public health crisis .“
Mike Kaufmann  
CEO
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    29 Table of Contents        |       People         |        Customers & Partners         |        Communities        |        Environment         |        Governance & Ethics   We are proud to support the men and women who have served in 
the U.S. military. Much of our philanthropic and volunteer support 
benefits Fisher House Foundation, an organization best known for 
Fisher Houses, which provide a free home-away-from-home for the 
families of military people receiving care at nearby VA hospitals. 
In 2018, during annual national meetings for employees, customers and vendors, 
participants helped us raise nearly $310,000 for Fisher House — bringing our 
support for the organization since 2016 to more than $1 million .
As a company, we also contributed $250,000 to the new National Veterans 
Memorial and Museum  — the only museum in the country dedicated to all our 
nation’s veterans — in Columbus, OH. 
Our Veterans and Military Advocates (VMA) employee resource group is an inclusive 
organization with the goal of continuing the spirit of service by supporting each other, 
the Cardinal Health mission and veteran causes in our communities. Each year, the VMA 
supports the Resurrecting Lives Foundation with a charity golf outing, and Fisher House 
with thousands of care packages for Fisher Houses.Honoring our military veterans
Clockwise from top left: Jon Giacomin, 
Medical Segment CEO, presents a 
donation to David Coker, President of 
Fisher House Foundation.
Ohio-based employees volunteer at 
the Fisher House at Wright-Patterson 
Airforce Base in Dayton, OH.
Fisher House provides a comfort home 
for the families of veterans and military 
personnel who are receiving treatment 
at nearby VA hospitals. 
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    30 Table of Contents        |       People         |        Customers & Partners         |        Communities        |        Environment         |        Governance & Ethics   In a rural community in southern 
Guatemala, Carlito was born with  
a cleft lip and palate. 
Though his family could not afford quality 
healthcare, they found a visiting medical 
team from Medical Missions for Children, a 
nonprofit organization supported by Americares,  
one of our product donation partners. 
The visiting medical team successfully repaired Carlito’s cleft 
lip, and later, his cleft palate, at no cost to the family. On this 
trip, the Medical Missions team performed 24 operations on 
other children of poor families, and provided dental care to  
25 special needs adults.
Americares says that the donation of our IV packs were crucial 
to the success of Carlito’s surgery, and to the treatment of many 
other patients.
“Product donations are mission-critical to Medical Missions for 
Children,” said the medical team leader Dr. Charles Badaoui. 
“Without the ongoing support of medical supplies and other 
essentials, we could not do our work.”Product donations improve lives
Product donations
Cardinal Health donates a significant amount of product each year, primarily through four international 
relief organizations that support charitable missions and disaster relief throughout the United States and 
around the world. In FY18, we donated nearly $5 million in products to these organizations. 
• Americares Foundation, Inc:  A health-focused relief and development organization that responds to 
people affected by poverty or disaster with medicine, medical supplies and health programs. Americares 
works with a network of local, national and international partners. Learn more at americares.org »
• Heart to Heart International:  An international health organization that responds to crises and natural 
disasters both domestically and internationally by supplying medical relief and mobilizing volunteers. 
The organization is on the “Philanthropy 400.” Learn more at hearttoheart.org »
• MAP International: MAP works with partners to restore health by providing basic medicines and 
health supplies to those living in poverty. MAP responds to natural disasters by sending Disaster Health 
Kits, medicines and medical products and other relief supplies to treat injuries and prevent the spread 
of illness. Learn more at map.org  »
• World Vision: This humanitarian organization conducts relief, development and advocacy activities in 
its work with children, families and communities in nearly 100 countries. Its work addresses the causes 
of poverty and injustice. Learn more at worldvision.org »
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    31 Table of Contents        |       People         |        Customers & Partners         |        Communities        |        Environment         |        Governance & Ethics   EnvironmentOUR
We know that a healthy environment is essential to healthy 
communities. Our guiding principles set the stage for us to do 
business in a way that is consistent with environmental sustainability.“ “
Greg Halvacs  
Sr. Vice President,  
Corporate Security
Cardinal Health works to 
minimize the impacts of our 
business on the environment.
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    32 Table of Contents        |       People         |        Customers & Partners         |        Communities         |        Environment        |        Governance & Ethics  Greenhouse gas emissions
We invest in energy optimization technologies that reduce our 
greenhouse gas emissions. One of our headquarters buildings in Dublin, 
OH, is Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certified. 
Across our portfolio we’ve installed a biomass boiler, solar panels, more 
efficient HVAC systems and process equipment, LED lighting, improved 
temperature control measures and improved building insulation. Energy 
optimization projects across our facilities are ongoing, providing energy 
cost savings and reducing carbon dioxide equivalency (CO2e) emissions. 
We identify the sites that have the largest emissions profile and prioritize 
them for emission reduction measures.
In FY18, energy efficiency projects saved approximately 1,400 Metric 
Tonnes CO2e1 and 2.1 million kWh. Cardinal Health engaged Bureau 
Veritas North America, Inc. in an independent verification of our 
reported greenhouse gas emissions. Our FY18 emission data have been 
verified at a Limited Level of Assurance: Scope 1, Scope 2 (location 
based), and Scope 3 (air travel departing from North America only). 
By the end of 2021, we plan to set a public greenhouse  
gas emissions reduction goal for our pharmaceutical 
distribution business.Our environmental sustainability initiatives
1 Calculated according to U.S. EPA greenhouse gas equivalencies calculatorGreenhouse Gas  
(thousand metric tons CO2e)
* Scope 1 and 2: Calculated according to The Climate Registry  
General Reporting Protocol.
† Scope 3: Calculated according to the U.S. EPA Emission Factors  
for Greenhouse Gas Inventories. Our calculations include only  
North American based air travel
FY18 represents approximately 89 percent of total square footage.FY1823
335
177100
0200300400600
500
Scope 1 (Direct)*          
Scope 2 (Indirect)*          
Scope 3 (Other Indirect)†
Learn more:
• Global EHS Policy »
• Global EHS Management  System »
• Global Environmental Sustainability 
Guiding Principles »Our business continues to evolve and 
grow in complexity — in turn, adding 
complexity to our sustainability initiatives. 
In FY18, we acquired the Patient Recovery 
Business, which significantly increased 
our overall emissions, water usage and 
waste generation. As a result, rather than 
restating our FY16 and FY17 data, we are 
using FY18 as a new baseline year.
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    33 Table of Contents        |       People         |        Customers & Partners         |        Communities         |        Environment        |        Governance & Ethics  Water usage
We take actions toward reducing water consumption levels at 
select locations. One of our key practices is recycling water.
Waste to energy / Landfill avoidance
Some locations are pursuing landfill avoidance by  
sending site wastes to incineration-to-energy facilities.  
Nearly 1.5 million pounds avoided the landfill as a  
result of our waste-to-energy programs. Transportation 
As a leader in healthcare logistics, we have one of the 
largest healthcare-dedicated fleets in the industry. In FY18, 
our private fleet alone traveled nearly 33 million miles. We 
reduce overall transportation expense by improving logistical 
efficiency. We partner with national and regional commercial 
carriers to service customers across the continuum of care. 
In the U.S., we have been a partner in good standing in the 
SmartWay program — as both a shipper and a carrier — 
since 2010. Cardinal Health Canada has been a partner  
in the program since 2015. 
In addition, some of our locations, including our  
corporate headquarters, now offer electric vehicle  
charging stations to employees. 
SMART Columbus 
Columbus was named the sole winner of the U.S. 
Department of Transportation’s first-ever Smart City 
Challenge, and received $50 million in funding and the 
designation as America’s Smart City. The city is embracing  
the reinvention of transportation to accelerate human 
progress. Smart Columbus is managed through a public/private partnership of the  
City of Columbus and the 
Columbus Partnership.
As an Accelerated 
Partner of the initiative, 
we are supporting the 
development of a more 
sustainable future for the 
region, our employees  
and our customers. Water usage FY18  
(million cubic meters)
Total usage
Total recycled
FY18 numbers represents 85 percent of total square footage.3.65.1
1.0
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    34 Table of Contents        |       People         |        Customers & Partners         |        Communities         |        Environment        |        Governance & Ethics  Recycling
Fundamental to our sustainability initiatives, our recycling 
programs include wood, cardboard, plastics, paper, metal, 
electronics, ink cartridges and other materials. Waste minimization: We are working with a U.S. 
manufacturer of printer toner cartridges that uses a closed 
loop process, so that remanufactured cartridge cores can 
be reused multiple times, which reduces landfill waste.
Around the globe, we are reducing our paper waste 
by adopting electronic documentation — an initiative 
originally submitted in an internal innovation competition. 
Now an enterprise-wide standard, electronic signatures and 
document tracking are saving time, money and energy.Recycling data FY18  
(million pounds)
Wood 47.7
Cardboard 42.8
Paper 3.7
Plastics 23.5
Metals 2.6
Electronics  0.4Total recycling and waste  
(million pounds)
*Total Hazardous waste comprises less 
than 2% of all waste generatedFY1842
134
50
0100150200
Recycled
Non recycledEnvironmental  
sustainability spotlight
PackSize technology at  
distribution centers
Some of our distribution centers have 
recently implemented PackSize, an on-
demand packing solution that allows every 
product to ship in the smallest possible box. 
PackSize machines create custom-sized 
boxes that save time and money, and 
significantly reduce environmental impact. 
This on-demand packaging means lower 
box inventories and reduced use of 
cardboard, packing paper and plastic air 
pillows. Cardboard waste from the machines 
can be recycled. 
Right-sized packaging means that more 
boxes fit on a single truck — reducing 
freight costs and transportation emissions. 
And finally, the customer that receives 
product in right-size packaging also receives 
less waste to dispose of.
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    35 Table of Contents        |       People         |        Customers & Partners         |        Communities         |        Environment        |        Governance & Ethics  ““
Roy Noda , Region President, 
Medical Segment, APAC
Pollution prevention:  
Minimize waste generated in  
our operations and maintain 
high rates of reuse and recycling.
Energy optimization:  
Optimize energy selection  
and use to reduce impacts  
to the environment, minimize 
greenhouse gas emissions  
and give preference to 
renewable energy sources  
when financially responsible.
Design for environment: 
Design products and services 
to reduce consumption of 
natural resources and energy 
requirements while maximizing 
product functionality.Environmental Sustainability Programs 
Our Packaging Technology Center creates optimized packaging 
designs that meet patient safety requirements, while conforming to 
the principals of regulatory compliance and environmental efficacy. 
The team of engineers at our Packaging Technology Center evaluate 
packaging designs to find opportunities for improvement in both 
recyclability and raw material utilization.
The Cardinal Health Sustainable Technologies Group  is a 
leading provider of single use device collections, reprocessing and 
recycling services in the U.S. As a trusted partner to more than 1,700 
hospitals, Sustainable Technologies is committed to simplifying the 
supply chain, providing additional value to customers and reducing 
the impact of healthcare delivery on the environment without 
compromising patient care or safety.
One manufacturing facility achieved zero waste to landfill status 
in 2017 , from a goal set in 2016. Currently, all single use devices and 
materials used within these operations are reprocessed, recycled 
or sent to waste to energy plants. In 2018, Cardinal Health and its 
sustainability partners diverted more than 886 tons of used medical 
devices from landfills. 
And, at a manufacturing plant in Japan, we are recycling water, 
reducing electricity consumption, using steam energy and reducing 
waste by reusing plastics, using returnable boxes and converting waste 
to solid fuel, significantly reducing landfill waste. Sustainability guiding 
principlesAs sustainable technologies evolve, we 
are making a concerted effort to expand 
reprocessing capabilities and identify 
new technologies or outlets to increase 
material reclamation. Being responsible 
and environmentally sustainable 
are fundamental to who we are as a 
company. At our manufacturing sites in 
Asia, we have implemented programs 
to minimize waste, optimize energy 
use and boost recycling — all helping 
to reduce our carbon footprint. We 
are deeply committed to promoting 
sustainable development.
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    36 Table of Contents        |       People         |        Customers & Partners         |        Communities         |        Environment        |        Governance & Ethics  At Cardinal Health, how we  
do business is as important 
as the business we do. We 
are guided by established 
standards of corporate 
governance and ethics. We believe that by conducting 
our business in the right way, 
we can create value for all 
our stakeholders. We can 
collaborate with providers, 
customers, manufacturers and suppliers to improve 
healthcare, and, at the same 
time, improve the health and 
well-being of our workplace, 
our employees and our 
communities around the globe.Learn more on the following pages and at the following links:
• 2018 proxy statement »
• Standards of Business Conduct »
• Anti-bribery and anti-corruption guide for third-party 
vendors working on behalf of Cardinal Health »
• Cardinal Health corporate governance page »Governance  
& Ethics
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    37 Table of Contents        |       People         |        Customers & Partners         |        Communities         |        Environment         |        Governance & Ethics Our Board of Directors serves as the representative and  
acts on behalf of all shareholders of Cardinal Health. 
Directors are responsible for exercising their business 
judgment in good faith and for acting in what they  
believe to be the best interests of the company. Among  
the Board’s responsibilities are:
• Oversight of management in the conduct of our 
businesses and of management’s efforts to establish and 
maintain high standards of legal and ethical conduct
• Review of and (where appropriate) approval of the 
company’s major business strategies, capital deployment 
and long-term plans
• Review of company performance• Selection and evaluation of the CEO and other  
senior officers
• Setting compensation for CEO and other senior officers 
• Planning for management succession
• Oversight of management’s accounting, financial 
reporting and financial and other controls
• Oversight of risk management policies and practices
• Recommending appropriate candidates for the Board
Our Corporate Governance Guidelines require that the Board 
be diverse, engaged and independent. Our Board reflects a 
diversity of skills, of professional, gender, ethnic and personal 
backgrounds, and of experience, and includes a balance of 
longer-serving directors with newer ones. Board of Directors
Years of service on the Board
4 
0-4  
YEARS3 
5-9  
YEARS3 
10-14  
YEARS4  
WOMEN2  
ETHNICALLY  
DIVERSEGender and ethnic diversity
AVERAGE 
TENURE IS 
7 YEARS
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    38 Table of Contents        |       People         |        Customers & Partners         |        Communities         |        Environment         |        Governance & Ethics Gregory B. Kenny
Chairman of the Board
Retired President and CEO,
General Cable Corp.
Committees: N, AH
Colleen F. Arnold
Retired SVP , Sales and Distribution, IBM
Committees: A
Carrie S. Cox
Retired EVP and President,  
Global Pharmaceuticals, Schering-Plough and 
retired Chairman and CEO, Humacyte, Inc.
Committees: H, AH
Calvin Darden
Retired SVP of U.S. Operations, UPS
Committees: H, AHBruce L. Downey
Retired Chairman and CEO,  
Barr Pharmaceuticals and  
Partner, NewSpring Health Capital II, LP
Committees: A, N, AH
Patricia A. Hemingway Hall
Retired President and CEO,  
Health Care Service Corporation
Committees: H, N
Akhil Johri
CFO, United Technologies
Committees: A
Michael C. Kaufmann
CEO, Cardinal HealthNancy Killefer
Retired Senior Partner
Public Sector Practice, McKinsey & Company
Committees: H
J. Michael Losh
Retired Executive Vice President and  
Chief Financial Officer, General Motors
Committees: ABoard of Directors
Committee codes: A: Audit; AH: Ad Hoc; H: Human Resources 
and Compensation; N: Nominating and Governance. The  
Ad Hoc Committee of independent directors was formed 
in 2018 to assist the Board in overseeing the company’s 
response to the opioid crisis.
All Board members, with the exception of  
CEO Mike Kaufmann, are independent.
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    39 Table of Contents        |       People         |        Customers & Partners         |        Communities         |        Environment         |        Governance & Ethics Our chief legal and compliance officer has responsibility to 
implement and maintain an effective ethics and compliance 
program. The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors 
oversees our ethics and compliance program.
We promote a culture of compliance at all levels in the 
organization. We have a robust ethics and compliance 
organization with compliance professionals who work 
alongside business leaders throughout the world. We 
regularly communicate to employees the importance of 
acting with integrity and in compliance with our Standards  
of Business Conduct. Our employees also receive online and 
in-person training to help ensure compliance with laws and 
with our policies and procedures.Ethics and compliance program
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    40 Table of Contents        |       People         |        Customers & Partners         |        Communities         |        Environment         |        Governance & Ethics Our Standards of Business Conduct guide all of us in fostering a 
culture of integrity, drive compliance with legal and regulatory 
requirements and help to protect and promote our reputation. 
Employees are trained on our Standards of Business  
Conduct when they join the company and receive  
annual training and certify compliance with them.  
These standards include:
• Act with integrity and in compliance with the law
• Ask questions, seek guidance and raise concerns
• Treat one another fairly and foster a safe, productive, 
diverse and environmentally responsible workplace
• Avoid conflicts of interest
• Compete with integrity in the marketplace
• Protect the integrity of the global supply chain
• Interact appropriately with government entities,  
officials and employees• Maintain accurate books and records
• Protect information and assets
• Encourage individual volunteerism and corporate  
social responsibility
The Standards of Business Conduct encourage employees 
to raise questions and concerns about business ethics. Our 
Business Conduct Line, a global telephone information and 
reporting service, is available, toll-free, 24 hours a day, seven 
days a week, in multiple languages. Employees and third 
parties can ask questions about our Standards of Business 
Conduct and other ethics and compliance issues, or report 
concerns (anonymously, if they choose) through this line. 
We respond to inquiries and investigate all substantiated 
ethics and compliance issues in accordance with internal 
procedures, and resolve the situation through appropriate 
actions, which may include disciplinary action such as 
additional policy training or termination of employment.  Information about our Business Conduct Line is 
communicated to employees at least annually through 
Standards of Business Conduct training as well as through 
other compliance trainings and postings on our internal 
employee website and in employee break rooms and 
gathering places at all Cardinal Health locations.
We also encourage employees to contact supervisors or the 
Human Resources or Legal departments with concerns. We 
prohibit retaliation against any employee who makes a good 
faith complaint through any channel.
More information about our approach to and administration 
of ethical business conduct for employees and third parties is 
available on the Ethics and Compliance page on our website. 
Preventing bribery and corruption : We prohibit bribery 
and all other corrupt conduct wherever we do business 
around the globe. Other than payment of published fees to 
file documents, our employees must not make payments 
to expedite or secure a routine governmental action (often 
referred to as a facilitating payment). Employees who conduct 
business internationally are required to have periodic training 
on anti-corruption laws and our policies and procedures.Standards of Business Conduct
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    41 Table of Contents        |       People         |        Customers & Partners         |        Communities         |        Environment         |        Governance & Ethics Interacting with healthcare professionals : Our processes 
and procedures are designed to comply with the laws, 
regulations and industry codes that govern the interactions 
of healthcare companies and healthcare professionals in the 
countries in which we do business. Our employees receive 
online and in-person training and regular communications to  
ensure compliance.
Protecting data privacy: We have policies and procedures 
designed to comply with the laws that govern the collection, 
use and management of patient-identifiable health 
information and other sensitive personal and financial 
information in the countries where we do business. These 
laws include the U.S. Health Insurance Portability and 
Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) and European Union (EU) 
data privacy regulations. 
We have programs in place to detect, contain and respond 
to information security incidents, which are overseen by our 
chief information security officer and our chief information 
officer, who reports to the chief executive officer. Examples 
of some of the measures we take to prevent data breaches 
include, among other things, phishing awareness campaigns 
and tests at regular intervals throughout the year, penetration 
testing over the Cardinal Health network and multi-factor 
authentication for more sensitive areas.We regularly conduct information security and privacy 
audits, both domestically and internationally, including 
HIPAA audits and third-party vendor assessments. We also 
conduct practice cyber event drills to prepare for potential 
incidents. We build employee awareness of privacy issues 
through regular training and engagement, including annual 
HIPAA training for all U.S. employees with computer access 
and annual cybersecurity training for all employees with 
computer access.
Participating in the political process: We believe that it is 
important, as a responsible corporate citizen, to participate 
in the political process. We use our unique knowledge and 
healthcare experience to inform and advise policy makers on 
matters that impact the quality, effectiveness and affordability 
of healthcare, as well as matters that impact our company, 
customers, shareholders and employees. 
We make very limited political contributions with corporate 
funds. Most of our political contributions to state candidates, 
and all contributions to federal candidates, are made by 
the Cardinal Health Companies Political Action Committee 
(PAC), not with corporate funds. The PAC is funded 
entirely by voluntary contributions from employees, and is 
administratively supported by Cardinal Health. The Nominating and Governance Committee of our Board 
of Directors oversees our policies and practices regarding 
political expenditures. The committee annually reviews 
our political contributions policy, our corporate political 
contributions and our trade association dues and payments.
We disclose contributions from corporate funds to 
state candidates and ballot initiatives and identify trade 
associations to which we paid more than $50,000 in annual 
corporate member payments in our annual political activities 
and contributions report. 
You can learn more about our political activities here:  
Political Activities Report »
We comply with U.S. federal and state laws, including 
the Lobbying Disclosure Act and Honest Leadership 
and Open Government Act, which require reporting on 
lobbying activities and certification of compliance with 
Congressional gift rules. You can find our federal lobbying 
reports here: lobbyingdisclosure.house.gov/ »
Learn more:  
Standards of Business Conduct »
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    42 Table of Contents        |       People         |        Customers & Partners         |        Communities         |        Environment         |        Governance & Ethics Unless otherwise indicated, data in this report is reflective of  fiscal 2018. The statistics and 
metrics included in this report may be based on estimates, assumptions or developing 
standards. The report, except for the greenhouse gas emissions data, has not been externally 
assured or verified by an independent third party.
Cardinal Health is headquartered in Dublin, Ohio.  Over 97 percent of our FY18 annual  
revenue was generated in the United States. Though the scope of this report primarily  
reflects the United States, our business description and ethics and governance sections  
reflect company-wide practice. In addition, data about environment and health and  
safety is based on our global operations.
For more information about the operations of Cardinal Health, please refer to the  
FY18 Cardinal Health Annual Report » Cautions concerning forward-looking statements
This report contains forward-looking statements addressing expectations, prospects, 
estimates and other matters that are dependent on future events or developments. These 
statements may be identified by words such as “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” 
“will,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “project,” “continue,” “likely,” “commit to” or other words or 
expressions of similar meaning, although not all forward-looking statements contain such 
terms.  Actual results may differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied in 
forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors, including the risks and uncertainties 
described in Cardinal Health’s Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports and exhibits 
to those reports.  Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this document.  
Except to the extent required by applicable law, Cardinal Health undertakes no obligation to 
update or revise any forward-looking statement.  Forward-looking statements are aspirational 
and not guarantees or promises that goals or targets will be met.  Investors are cautioned not 
to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements.About this report
© 2019 Cardinal Health. All Rights Reserved. CARDINAL HEALTH, the Cardinal Health LOGO, and ESSENTIAL TO CARE are trademarks of Cardinal Health 
and may be registered in the US and/or in other countries. All other marks are the property of their respective owners. Lit. No. 5CR19-960119 (05/2019) cardinalhealth.com
2018 Corporate Citizenship Report    |    43 Table of Contents        |       People         |        Customers & Partners         |        Communities         |        Environment         |        Governance & Ethics 