Corporate
ReportFY20 Interim
CitizenshipA message from our CEO __________________________________ 3
Essential to care™ _________________________________________ 6
Our Path Forward  ________________________________________ 7
Empowering our people  __________________________________ 8
Creating value for our customers and partners _________________ 21
Strengthening our communities  ____________________________ 26
Operating sustainably and responsibly  _______________________ 31
Governance and ethics  ___________________________________ 36
About this report  _______________________________________ 40
GRI index  _____________________________________________ 42
SASB index  ____________________________________________ 53Table of contents
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    2As a distributor of pharmaceutical products and a global manufacturer 
and distributor of medical and laboratory supplies, Cardinal Health plays 
a critical role in the healthcare supply chain. We are first and foremost 
committed to being a trusted partner to our customers and suppliers. 
This commitment is especially critical as we continue to navigate the 
pandemic and drive our business forward.
2020 presented challenges that few could have imagined. We have seen, over and over again, 
the value of the role we play in healthcare and in our communities. In the following pages, 
you’ll learn about our work to navigate a new normal in response to the global COVID-19 
pandemic and how we stepped forward with urgency to call for racial and social justice while 
doing our critical part in keeping the healthcare system working during the pandemic.
Battling COVID-19
As the global pandemic unfolded, we moved quickly to protect the health and safety of our 
employees and to maintain operations needed to serve our customers. Our frontline employees 
have continued to work daily in distribution centers, manufacturing sites, pharmacies and other 
clinical sites as part of a critical infrastructure industry. In March, we implemented enhanced worksite 
hygiene practices and cleaning procedures in 
all our facilities to help keep our employees 
safe. We also quickly transitioned our office-
based employees to a remote work model 
and implemented new technologies and 
practices to ensure ongoing productivity. We 
have provided educational and mental health 
benefits for all our employees to support 
their total well-being. This includes additional 
compensation for our frontline teams who 
continue to demonstrate day in and day out 
why we are essential to care.
Whether on the front lines or working from 
home, our employees show incredible 
commitment, dedication and grit every day.  
I am both inspired by and deeply grateful  
to them. A message from our CEO
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    3Addressing racism and social inequities
As the pandemic has affected all of our lives, it has also highlighted deep inequities among 
people of color in the United States. Blacks, African Americans and Latino Americans are  
more likely to get COVID-19 and, according to a new survey from the Commonwealth Fund , 
they are facing greater mental health and economic challenges due to the pandemic than 
white Americans.  
In the past year, I have had the opportunity to gain a deeper understanding of the history  
of inequities in this country and, in particular, racial bias. 
Last year, I appointed a group of leaders to our new African American and Black Racial  
Equity Cabinet to provide guidance to me and other senior executives in addressing racism 
and social injustice. The Cabinet is developing communication and education strategies to 
help us understand the inequities in our country and begin to right them. 
Early on, I asked the Cabinet and other Black leaders to talk to my leadership team about what 
it is like to live as a Black person in America. During the conversation, one leader shared how, 
while dropping off a child at an elite university, someone assumed he was an Uber driver and 
asked him to move his car. Another shared that, as a law student in a summer associate role 
at a law firm, he faced harsh criticism from a white partner who judged his writing skills based 
on his race and background. Without knowing that the summer associate was the managing 
editor of his school’s law journal, the firm assigned him a writing coach who ultimately said 
the student needed no coaching. We must hear these difficult stories, and we must speak 
out and act against racism and for social justice. 
In February, I took a group of Cardinal Health leaders 
to Montgomery to visit the National Memorial for 
Peace and Justice and the Legacy Museum, sites that 
honor the victims of slavery and lynching. (You can 
read about our experience on page 16.)
We left Montgomery more deeply committed than 
ever to work together to fight racial inequity and social 
injustice, and to make a difference in our company, 
communities and world. We know that racism is our 
past, and it is our present. If we do nothing and these 
issues remain unchecked, racism will be our future.  
We cannot let that happen.
When George Floyd’s murder in May 2020 prompted protests across the U.S., we had to 
take a public stand against racism. While our work in diversity and inclusion has been a 
focus for many years, this marked a turning point. From that moment, we began to talk 
much more about racism and social injustice both inside and outside our company. 
Nkyinkyim Installation , a 
sculpture by Ghanaian artist 
Kwame Akoto-Bamfo at the 
National Memorial for Peace and 
Justice in Montgomery, Ala.
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    4At Cardinal Health, we work hard to create a workplace culture that is truly diverse and inclusive, where every employee 
can bring 100% of themselves to work every day and thrive. We are encouraging employees at every level to learn  
more and to have courageous conversations about systemic racism and social injustice. And while sometimes 
uncomfortable, these conversations are the necessary beginning of a long journey to real change. The leadership  
team here at Cardinal Health is deeply committed to a future with equity and justice, and we embrace the challenges 
along this path.  
It is the right  thing to do, of course. But it is also the smart  thing to do. As we create  
a more diverse, inclusive and equitable culture, we become a destination for the  
best talent. We also become more dynamic, innovative and better able to serve  
our customers and communities around the world. 
As you’ll read, diversity and inclusion are at the heart of our corporate citizenship work, and they also inform our 
compensation practices. Pay equity is a key priority. We are committed to transparency in our efforts toward pay equity; 
you can read more on page 17 . I hope you’ll read on about the work we’re doing for each other, our customers and 
partners, and our communities. 
You’ll learn how we’ve been navigating through the pandemic to ensure that our customers and partners have the 
products and services they need to care for their patients. And, you’ll find more in-depth reporting on our corporate 
citizenship work on our website .
Stay safe and be well.
Mike Kaufmann  
Chief Executive Officer
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    5We deliver products and solutions to improve the lives 
of people every day. 
Our medical and pharmaceutical products and 
services are in nearly 90%  of U.S. hospitals
We work with more than 4,500  sourcing and 
manufacturing partners throughout the healthcare supply 
chain to support patients across the continuum of care
We serve more than 10,000  specialty physician 
offices and clinics We serve more than 3.4  million  patients with  
more than 46,000  home healthcare productsWe serve more than 29,000  pharmaciesEssential to care™
Cardinal Health is a distributor of pharmaceuticals, a global manufacturer  
and distributor of medical and laboratory products, and a provider of 
performance and data solutions for health care facilities. With 50 years  
in business, operations in more than 40 countries and approximately  
48,000 employees globally, Cardinal Health is essential to care . Information 
about Cardinal Health is available at cardinalhealth.com .
Headquartered in Dublin, Ohio, 
Cardinal Health plays an important 
role in the healthcare industry by 
acting as a crucial link between 
the clinical and operational worlds, 
focused on helping our customers 
improve the lives of people every day.Approximately 48,000   
employees worldwide
$152.9 billion  in revenue  
in fiscal year 2020
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    6We deliver products and 
solutions to  improve the 
lives of people every day.  Whywe existWe aspire to be healthcare’s most trusted partner  by building upon our 
scale and heritage in distribution, products and solutions, while driving 
growth in evolving areas of healthcare through customer insights, data 
and analytics, and focusing our resources on what matters most. Wherewe are going
Integrity  
we hold ourselves 
to the highest 
ethical standards  Mission driven  
we serve the greater 
goal of healthcare Innovative
we develop new ways 
of thinking, operating 
and serving customersInclusive  
we embrace 
differences to drive 
the best outcomes Accountable 
we bring passion, 
determination and 
grit to deliver on our 
commitments  Whatwe value Howwe will succeed
Grow and 
develop   
our people Invest  
for growthOptimize  
our corePrioritize  
our work  
Essential to care™Our Path Forward
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    7Empowering  
our people
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    8At Cardinal Health, we commit to providing our employees with a unique 
experience. Here is what employees can expect to encounter as they share 
and grow their skills, abilities and knowledge as part of their journey.
Our employees do what matters every day: Employees improve the lives of people every day 
by solving complex healthcare problems. No matter what their job is, what our employees do 
makes a difference — for customers and their patients, families, communities and our world.
Employees find their place at Cardinal Health: Our employees grow and own their own 
careers with our trusted team of driven professionals who expertly navigate the challenging, fast-
paced field of healthcare to generate results and make a lasting impact. Our employees enjoy 
what they do and who they work with — in a place where everyone belongs. 
Employees are encouraged to focus on balance: Life should be lived fully. That’s why we 
empower leaders to support their teams in all ways, so employees can reach their personal goals, 
as well as their professional goals.
Our employees can be themselves: Everyone deserves to work in a place where they can 
bring their best selves each and every day. Authenticity is welcomed here: Just the way a person 
is, is just right for us.Our promise to our employees 
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    9Keeping our employees safe
Protecting the health and safety of our employees and their families has been a priority 
throughout the COVID-19 pandemic. As we have navigated our way through the pandemic, we 
have had to make many decisions quickly about our employees’ safety. We have based every 
one of those decisions on science and in consultation with our Chief Medical Officer. 
In March, all employees who could work remotely began working from home. We quickly 
expanded our technology infrastructure to help employees around the globe perform their 
duties remotely and continue to support customers, patients and our frontline colleagues. 
Because Cardinal Health is part of a critical infrastructure industry, more than 30,000 of our 
employees have continued to report to work daily in distribution centers, supply chain operations, 
manufacturing sites, pharmacies and other clinical sites. We implemented comprehensive safety 
measures and we required all of these frontline workers to wear masks, even before the U.S. 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) made its strong recommendation for doing so. 
To help prevent the spread of COVID-19 and protect the safety of our frontline employees, all of 
our facilities are thoroughly cleaned regularly. We have implemented worksite hygiene practices 
in accordance with the CDC and the World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines. We focused 
on educating employees on the things that they can easily do to help keep themselves and their 
families safe: wear a mask, wash hands and stay a safe distance from one another. We have rolled out multiple trainings to help employees stay safe in their jobs. We put  
policies in place to ensure that employees who are sick with or who have been exposed to 
COVID-19 on the job can take time off, and that time off does not impact their paid time-off 
days for the year. Our safety measures have helped us to avoid a wide spread of COVID-19 
among our employees.
As the pandemic evolves, we continue to closely monitor developments and adapt  
our operations.Working through the pandemic
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    10Supporting employees’ mental health
Early in the pandemic, our Human Resources team learned from employee listening sessions 
that our employees felt a greater-than-ever need for collaboration and unity and longed for 
more opportunities for relationship building.   
Our leadership team made a pledge to each other — and asked our employees to make 
the same commitment. Collectively, we pledged to take care of ourselves, our families, our 
colleagues and our communities, to live our values, to set boundaries, and to be kind to 
ourselves and each other. Focusing on keeping that pledge is helping us to become a stronger 
organization as we continue to provide essential support to our customers.
We firmly believe that mental health matters. Our Human Resources team released a wellness 
and self-care learning series focused on COVID-19 and mental health. Within just a couple of 
months, hundreds of employees from more than 21 countries had completed 230 different 
courses within that learning series.
We also launched Mind Matters, a global mental health initiative 
to provide mental health resources to employees and their 
families, and to foster an open and supportive mental health 
culture throughout the company.
The first goal of Mind Matters — to provide resources — 
escalated to an urgent need as the pandemic unfolded. To 
ensure that all employees have access to psychological and 
emotional well-being resources, we increased the number of one-on-one counseling sessions that employees and their household members could 
access through our global Employee Assistance Program (EAP) and provided free access to 
Headspace, a meditation and relaxation app, to our employees worldwide. We also began 
offering a Mental Health First Aid (MHFA) certification course to employees throughout the U.S. 
to help employees at all levels learn how to support someone with a mental health issue. 
The second goal of Mind Matters — to foster an open and supportive culture — is a long-term 
commitment that means eliminating the stigma of mental health issues in our workforce. We 
have begun acting toward this goal in multiple ways:
• Fostering dialogue through webinars with mental health professionals.
• Offering a Mind Matters Employee Resource Group Collaboration Series. According 
to the American Psychiatric Association, minorities often experience poorer mental health 
outcomes due to multiple factors — including lack of access to quality mental health 
services, cultural stigma around mental health care or discrimination. That is why the Mind 
Matters team collaborated with various Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) to customize 
webinars with messages about mental health issues specific to diverse groups of employees. 
• Encouraging storytelling. Sharing stories can help increase compassion for those who 
struggle with mental health issues. We are helping connect those employees willing to share 
stories of their own mental health experiences with audiences throughout the company.
• Providing leaders with training on mental health responsiveness so they’re better 
prepared to address mental health issues in the workplace.MINDMA TTERS
Change your 
persp ective
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    11Diversity and inclusion
At Cardinal Health, we embrace differences to drive the best outcomes. It’s the right 
thing to do — it’s also the smart thing to do. We know that leveraging the power of 
diversity and inclusion (D&I) gives us a competitive business advantage.
We are dedicated to building a diverse workforce and an inclusive workplace that values the unique 
perspective and contributions of all of our employees — a workplace where every employee can bring  
100% of themselves to work every day.
Respecting and appreciating diversity of thought, experience and background helps us improve performance, 
understand our customers better and recruit and retain top talent. As we become more inclusive, we are also 
becoming more innovative, increasing employee engagement and improving customer and shareholder value. 
We know that, as a large company, we have both the opportunity and the responsibility to create a better 
experience for each other and for our communities. 
This year we implemented a series of racial equity courses with a video playlist of thought-provoking social 
injustice resources on our internal training site. This playlist has more followers and higher engagement among 
our employees than any other informational playlist we offer. 
Our goal in educating ourselves and each other is to inspire more courageous conversations inside our company 
— and in the hopes that these courageous conversations also will carry over into our communities. Inside and 
outside our company’s walls, these conversations can be tricky, uncomfortable — even heated. And that’s okay. 
Because often, if the conversations are not difficult, we’re not talking about things that can make a real difference.Awards and recognition
Devray Kirkland: Top 50 Chief Diversity 
Officers by the National Diversity Council  
2020 Noteworthy Companies
DiversityInc
2020 Inclusion Index Company
Diversity Best Practices
2020 Diversity in Business
Columbus Business First
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    12Diversity and Inclusion Steering Council 
The D&I Steering Council exists to help drive internal conversations and be truth tellers 
related to diversity and inclusion. Council members are senior leaders from across the 
company who are charged with identifying and discussing barriers to D&I, challenging the 
status quo and empowering change. CEO Mike Kaufmann and CHRO Ola Snow serve as 
the Council’s Executive Sponsors. 
The Council asks employees at all levels of the company to:
• Consistently challenge unconscious bias from ourselves and each other;
• Embrace, encourage, share and respect human differences;
• Attract, recruit, hire, develop, empower, mentor and engage the best talent.
In collaboration with the Cardinal Health Human Resources and Diversity and Inclusion 
teams, as well with our Employee Resource Groups, the Council has created and 
put into place a plan to help keep D&I at the center of everything we do. This work 
includes driving awareness and leading discussion of the D&I business case, conducting 
workshops with diverse teams to uncover obstacles to D&I and hosting working groups 
with various ERG’s leadership and Executive Sponsors.¡Hola! is one of seven ERGs at Cardinal Health. ERGs are aligned with our businesses; 
each is supported by a senior executive. They help foster an inclusive, engaged 
workforce, develop future leaders, expand marketplace reach and partner with 
nonprofits through volunteerism and fundraising.
Other ERGs include the African American Network, the Asian Pacific American 
Network, the Disabilities Advocates Network, PROUD, the Veterans and Military 
Advocates and the Women’s Impact Network.
Pictured above: The leadership team of our ¡Hola! employee resource group (ERG), 
photographed at the Dublin branch of the Columbus Metropolitan Library.  
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    13Mike Kaufmann  
Executive Sponsor  
CEO 
Shane Abeyratne  
VP , Customer Service
Alex Gumbs  
VP , Channel Partners 
Jessie  Lian  
VP , Medical-APACDevray Kirkland  
Chief Diversity Officer 
Michelle  Britt  
VP , Territory Sales 
Eric Joyner  
VP , Strategic Pricing 
Mike  Pintek  
SVP , Customer 
Operations and  
Business DevelopmentOla Snow  
Executive Sponsor  
CHRO 
Ben Brinker  
SVP and GM, Medical 
Manufacturing and 
Supply Chain 
Sean  Halligan  
SVP , Pharma Supply 
Chain Operations
Mariela  Martinez  
VP , Software 
EngineeringMelissa Laber   
Chair  
SVP , OptiFreight® 
Logistics
Snehal  Desai  
VP , IT Pharma  
Supply Chain
Bekki  Kidd  
SVP , Global Logistics 
Stephanie  Revish  
VP , Financial Planning  
and AnalysisPreety Sidhu   
Vice Chair  
SVP , Strategy and 
Business Development 
Emily  Gallo  
VP , Product and  
Solutions Marketing
Travis  Leonard  
SVP , Finance
Diversity and Inclusion Steering Council 
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    14Mike Kaufmann  
Executive Sponsor  
CEOTravis Leonard  
SVP , Finance
Angie Thomas  
VP , Account 
ManagementOla Snow  
Executive Advisor  
CHRO
Stephanie Revish  
VP , Financial Planning 
and AnalysisVictor Crawford  
Executive Advisor  
CEO, Pharmaceutical 
segment  
Sherrick Orie  
VP , Operations 
ManagementKen Thornton  
VP , Territory Sales, LabEric Joyner  
VP , Strategic Pricing
Devin Schaffer  
VP , Legal-M&AAfrican American and Black Racial Equity Cabinet
In December 2019, CEO Mike Kaufmann appointed a group of leaders to a new African American and Black Racial Equity Cabinet that provides guidance to our 
senior executives in addressing racism and social injustice. The Cabinet aspires to bring the scale, influence and resources of Cardinal Health to openly identify 
issues of Black and African American inequity due to systemic racism and racial bias, both within Cardinal Health and outside the organization. Kaufmann serves 
as Executive Sponsor of this Cabinet; Victor Crawford, CEO of our Pharmaceutical Segment, and Ola Snow, CHRO, are Executive Advisors. 
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    15In February, CEO Mike Kaufmann traveled to Montgomery, 
Ala., with a group of diverse Cardinal Health leaders. Their 
destination: The National Memorial for Peace and Justice , 
the “nation’s first memorial dedicated to the legacy of 
enslaved Black people, people terrorized by lynching, 
African Americans humiliated by racial segregation and Jim 
Crow, and people of color burdened with contemporary 
presumptions of guilt and police violence,” according to the 
museum’s website.
The memorial, located on six acres in downtown 
Montgomery, includes 800 monuments that are hung 
to symbolize lynching victims in the counties and states 
where the terrorism took place. The names of lynching 
victims are engraved on the columns. 
During the visit, four of our leaders found their own last 
names on a column, each one from a county and state in 
which their families once lived. None of these individuals had 
known about this part of their family history before the visit.
The group then visited the Legacy Museum , built on a 
site where enslaved people were once imprisoned. The 
museum reflects the Equal Justice Initiative’s “research into the history of racial injustice and the narratives that 
have sustained injustice across generations,” according 
to the museum’s website. The museum shows how 
slavery evolved into labor contracts, lynching, legalized 
racial segregation and contemporary issues like mass 
incarceration. The exhibit also includes photos and videos 
from people who have directly experienced this evolution 
of racial injustice.
On the return from Montgomery, Kaufmann said,  
“Talking about racial injustice in the United States is 
extremely difficult and controversial, but we are going  
to talk about it. As a leadership team, we are committed  
to increasing awareness and taking action inside the  
walls of Cardinal Health and within the communities  
we serve. 
“This is about living our values. It’s about doing 
the right thing even when it is hard. Treating 
people with dignity and respect will make 
Cardinal Health a stronger company and improve 
the lives of many people along the way.”Learning about and speaking out against racism
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    16Pay equity 
Awards and recognition
20% by 2020 Women  
on Boards
Winning ‘W’ Companies
50 Best Companies for  
Latinas to Work for in the U.S.
Latina Style 50 Report
Best Places to Work for  
LGBTQ Community
Human Rights Campaign
We’ve received a perfect score from the Human 
Rights Campaign for 1 2 years in a row
Top Companies for  
Executive Women
National Association for  
Female Executives
At Cardinal Health, our employees are our most 
important asset. Diversity and inclusion are at the 
heart of our corporate citizenship work, and they 
inform our compensation practices. Pay equity is  
a key priority, as is elevating women and diverse 
talent into leadership positions. We are committed  
to transparency in our efforts toward pay equity.
We define pay equity as equal pay for women, men and all ethnicities 
who are performing substantially similar work. Some of the things 
we take into account include job-related skills, tenure, experience and 
education level, performance rating and geography. 
In FY18, we established a pay equity committee which guides 
ongoing analysis and benchmarking, in regular consultation with 
an independent third party to review and help inform our salary 
investments and compensation practices.
Our FY20 analysis shows that, on average in the U.S., women are paid 
99% of what men are paid, and minority employees are paid 100% of 
what non-minority employees are paid. We believe that every worker has the right to equal pay for equal 
work regardless of their gender, race, religion, national origin, age or 
physical/mental abilities. But we know that true pay equity also is an 
ongoing commitment. 
We are committed to continuously assessing our pay practices and 
making adjustments to ensure we equitably compensate our employees 
— that’s critical to our mission of being a truly inclusive company. 
We are putting best practices in place when it comes to equal pay 
for equal work. We do not allow questions about pay history in 
the recruiting and interviewing process, and instead ask about pay 
expectations. We conduct annual audits that identify potential pay 
gaps, then make appropriate salary adjustments. We administer annual 
merit increases based on both performance and salary within the 
pay range, then make promotional salary increases based on market 
competitiveness and internal equity. 
We are also taking actions focused on recruiting, retaining, developing 
and advancing women and minorities, including the launch of 
differentiated development programs to help accelerate their 
readiness for leadership roles.
We look forward to continuing these actions to help increase our 
diversity and remain an employer of choice.
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    17The data below on the diversity of our U.S. workforce uses the same racial/ethnic groups and job 
categories included in EEO-1 reports we file with the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission 
(EEOC) and reflects data as of June 30, 2020, our last fiscal year end. The EEOC mandates the use of 
specific job categories, which differ from the way in which we organize our workforce. Although it is 
impossible to capture the diversity of backgrounds and thought at Cardinal Health in a single chart, 
we are publishing this information here for the first time because we want to be transparent about our 
diversity representation. While we are proud of our work in building a truly diverse and inclusive culture, we recognize the 
composition of our workforce does not yet align with our goal of representation reflecting that of the 
communities we serve and those in which we work and live. Our Board and senior leadership are deeply 
committed to this work and we are proud of the diversity they represent. Currently, our Board of Directors 
is 31% female and 23% ethnically diverse, and our executive team (which includes our CEO’s direct reports 
and our business presidents) is 44% female and 17% ethnically diverse. 
EEO CategoryFemale Male
Overall 
totalsAmerican Indian 
or Alaska Native Asian Black or African 
American Hispanic or 
LatinoNative Hawaiian or 
other Pacific Islander Two or  
more races White American Indian 
or Alaska Native Asian Black or African 
American Hispanic or 
LatinoNative Hawaiian or 
other Pacific Islander Two or 
more races White 
Executive or Senior Level 
Officials and Managers0 0 1 1 0 1 15 0 2 4 1 0 0 41 66 
First or Mid-Level Officials 
and Managers3 91 138 182 3 23 1,223 8 161 196 270 6 39 1,742 4,085 
Professionals 12 331 330 340 6 70 2,379 10 449 193 277 7 57 2,273 6,734 
Technicians 7 50 135 204 11  17 516 7 83 145 167 7 20 482 1,851 
Sales Workers 3 23 33 66 2 9 718 3 21 51 52 3 14 773 1,771 
Administrative  
Support Workers12 57 671 232 4 53 1,072 2 13 107 67 0 9 194 2,493 
Craft Workers 0 0 6 9 0 0 11  2 6 50 48 1 2 189 324 
Operatives 34 403 1,098 1,166 42 59 1,087 37 691 1,868 1,738 59 130 2,657 11,0 69  
Laborers and Helpers 2 87 230 236 1 8 184 0 24 49 78 0 0 98 997 
Service Workers 0 0 2 0 0 0 2 0 1 14 14 0 0 82 115  
Total 73 1,042 2,644 2,436 69 240 7 ,207 69 1,451 2,677 2,712 83 271 8,531 29,505 
* We have not filed a calendar year 2019 EEO-1 report with the EEOC, since the U.S. Department of Labor has delayed the process and instructions for filing due to Covid-19 until March 2021. The above data therefore was prepared following the EEOC’s 2018 instructions.EEO-1 survey data
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    18Our Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) team works with our 
Operations and Real Estate teams to keep workspaces safe around the 
globe. The team provides comprehensive training, industrial hygiene 
sampling and incident analysis training.
Focus Five
In FY20, the EHS team launched its Focus Five program. This is a three-year training program 
designed to assist operations in accelerating their journey to safety excellence. In the first 
year, employees from each of the five participating facilities complete a comprehensive 
site assessment, then create an action plan designed to enhance various aspects of the 
operation’s EHS management system. The site leader owns the plan and reports regularly 
to the operation’s senior vice president and the business president on plan implementation 
and metrics. Monthly reports go to all site leaders engaged in the Focus Five program, which 
enhance accountability and provide valuable best practice-sharing and collaboration between 
the Focus Five participants.
During this time, the management teams of each participating facility also take an eight-
hour EHS management leadership course, which highlights the business case for EHS, the 
responsibilities of the leadership in integrating safety into the operation’s culture and how to 
achieve continual EHS performance improvement.  
To learn more about the work our EHS team does every day to keep 
our workspaces safe around the globe, please see pages 25-26 of our 
FY19 Corporate Citizenship Report »Preventing work-related injuries 
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    19In year two, participants will continue to implement EHS 
management system protocols and to provide their regular 
status reports. 
In year three, participants will mentor a new group of five 
facilities beginning year one of the program. Highlights of the Focus Five pilot after one year:
• Employees completed more than 1,100 proactive 
safety activities and submitted more than 400 safety 
improvement recommendations to their leadership.
• Employees completed more than 2,300 job safety 
observations, focusing on reinforcing positive behavior and 
coaching at-risk behavior.
• All supervisors, managers and site directors completed 
hazard recognition, root cause analysis and EHS 
management leadership training.
• Operations reduced their total recordable incident rate 
(TRIR) by 46%.
The Focus Five program will add five new facility participants 
in FY21. Because collaboration and best practice sharing 
have proven to be strengths of the program, all 10 will come 
together regularly to share plan implementation and key 
safety metrics with senior vice presidents and presidents. These are standard Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) calculations 
used to evaluate and quantify a company’s safety performance. 
Cardinal Health operates many warehouses, distribution centers and other industrial 
work environments. According to U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (2019), Warehouse & 
Storage (NAICS 4931) has an average TRIR of 4.8 injuries per 100 full-time employees. 
Since FY09, we have reduced our TRIR 63%.Global occupational  
injury/illness dataFY18 FY19 FY20
Rates
Total recordable incident rate (TRIR) 1.36 1.47 1.37
Lost time incident rate (LTIR) 0.51 0.55 0.50
Days away from work, days of restricted 
work and/or days of jobs transfer (DART)1.02 1.16 1.08
First aid case rate 3.09 3.02 4.62
Fatalities
Fatalities — employee 0 0 0
Fatalities — contractor 0 0 0
Other
Total reported near misses 1,703 1,881 2,117
Pictured above: In Ontario, Calif., supervisors and 
managers participate in EHS management leadership 
training as part of Focus Five pilot program.
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    20Creating value 
for our customers 
and partners 
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    21Responding to the COVID-19 pandemic
Sourcing and distributing pharmaceuticals
Cardinal Health is partnering with our suppliers to continuously 
monitor supply chain implications for pharmaceutical products 
used to treat coronavirus, including brand and generic 
pharmaceuticals and over-the-counter cold and flu products. 
As the COVID-19 pandemic continues, we are balancing 
requests for urgent needs, while continuing to allocate 
products to meet existing demand.
We play an important role in delivering products  
and medications from suppliers to customers. Our  National Logistics Center in Central Ohio, which receives 
products from suppliers and moves them to distribution 
centers across the country, is recognized as a best-in-class 
model for effective, efficient delivery both for suppliers and 
customers. We have contingency plans for our distribution 
centers to provide continued delivery of products.
Employees in all of our distribution centers work tirelessly 
to meet the increased needs of our customers. During 
COVID-19, we have invested in air freight shipments to get 
customers what they need as quickly as possible. We’ve 
expanded hours of operation and rely on our connections 
Cardinal Health is one of the few companies that 
provide both the pharmaceutical and medical 
solutions that help our customers give their 
patients the care they need. We are a distributor 
of pharmaceuticals, a global manufacturer and 
distributor of medical and laboratory products, 
and a provider of performance and data solutions 
for healthcare facilities.
Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, our mission of delivering 
the products and solutions to improve the lives of people every 
day has become more important than ever. We are working 
across our entire network in a variety of ways: increasing our 
manufacturing of needed products, leveraging our global 
footprint and relationships with partner suppliers to get products 
to our healthcare provider customers quickly, evaluating 
additional suppliers to diversify product options and collaborating 
with public and private sector partners.
The following are highlights of our response to 
COVID-19; find a more in-depth look at our COVID-19 
Global Preparedness here »
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    22with state emergency management groups to help facilitate getting our delivery trucks in and 
out of cities and states. To help keep our employees safe, we follow strict health and safety 
requirements and guidelines for each facility and help all drivers stay physically distanced from 
other employees.
Distributing critical medical inventory
To help meet the needs of frontline healthcare workers in the face of unprecedented demand, 
we are managing the manufacturing and distribution of critical inventory for more than 100,000 
medical supplies. We have worked closely with the CDC throughout the pandemic to optimize 
our nationwide network, prioritizing identified hotspots in the U.S.
For all Cardinal Health™ Brand Products and other national brand products that move through 
our channel, we use data and analytics to determine demand trends. We monitor daily inventory 
health through frequent discussions with product suppliers, and have increased manufacturing 
shifts and overtime in order to increase inventory levels for products with current or expected 
demand spikes. We have collaborated with U.S. and foreign trade authorities to expedite 
shipments and shorten lead times. And we continually explore new supply channels, including 
potential partnerships with suppliers outside the healthcare industry to help address the 
unprecedented need for supplies to fight the pandemic.
Supporting specialty physician offices 
The COVID-19 pandemic has created unique challenges for nearly all our customers and 
partners, including retail independent pharmacists and nuclear medicine healthcare providers. 
One example of how we’ve helped them to continue meeting their needs is our support of 
specialty physician offices. Cardinal Health is working hard to help ensure they have the essential 
medicines and supplies they need.We have not experienced significant 
shortages in specialty drugs, and we 
are collaborating with our suppliers to 
continuously monitor the supply chain. 
We have taken proactive measures 
to help maintain the ability of our 
customers to purchase in-demand 
products (subject to any applicable 
state or federal regulations, directions 
or mandates). We’ve worked with 
pharmaceutical manufacturers to secure 
extended payment terms that we’ve 
passed along to our customers.
Through our Government Affairs team, 
we are providing our specialty practice 
customers with information on financial 
support available through government 
programs such as the Payment 
Protection Program (PPP) available through the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security 
(CARES) Act, Economic Injury Disaster Loans and favorable tax provisions.
We are working to identify and offer additional resources to help specialty physician practices 
navigate the pandemic, including providing guidance on extended coverage for telehealth and 
caring for staff during difficult times.
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    23Safety and quality are at the forefront of every decision we make in 
order to help ensure a continuous supply of trusted products. We do not 
consider options that would sacrifice patient safety or product quality. 
Manufacturing and sourcing strategy
Our manufacturing and sourcing strategy for Cardinal Health™ Brand Products focuses on 
reliably and efficiently providing high-quality, cost-effective products to our customers.
We continually evaluate and employ strategies to mitigate risk and help ensure supply 
continuity by partnering with multiple sources, manufacturing in multiple locations and 
through demand management and inventory planning.
Our geographically diverse manufacturing and sourcing network supports our ability to 
deliver quality products at competitive prices. It also aims to reduce exposure to regional 
supply availability issues by shifting volume across sites as needed.
To do this, we rely on a broad network around the world. Cardinal Health operates a 
geographically diverse manufacturing network with nearly 80% of our owned manufacturing 
network in North America and Latin America and the rest in Europe and Asia. In addition, we 
do business with more than 20,000 direct and indirect suppliers in the U.S. and many other 
countries around the world. We operate an extensive global network of warehouses to store inventory and safety stock to 
manage normal variability in demand and supply. This approach helps us meet our customers’ 
needs for quality products at competitive prices while reducing exposure to regional supply 
availability issues.
We are exploring ways to retrofit and add equipment to production lines to increase the 
supply of items in most need, such as face masks, gowns and other essential personal 
protective equipment (PPE). We are evaluating additional suppliers to expand and diversify 
critical product options and have expedited our supplier validation and qualification processes. 
Sourcing responsibly
Cardinal Health is focused on maintaining a supply chain that reflects our core values and 
respect for quality and social responsibility. (Please see page 36 for more information about 
sustainable sourcing.)
On product quality, we are committed to patient and user safety and providing products and 
services that meet or exceed the expectations of our customers. 
To help ensure our products are safe and effective, our manufacturing sites and suppliers of 
medical devices are appropriately registered with the FDA and maintain a quality management 
system that meets or exceeds regulatory requirements, as well as applicable quality standards. We Ensuring patient safety and product quality 
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    24have also established quality objectives and metrics. Our medical 
device suppliers must meet the requirements of our supplier quality 
management process, which includes an on-site qualification audit 
and monthly performance monitoring. 
Products in our supply chain that are authorized for emergency 
use comply with the terms of Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) 
as approved by the FDA. Additionally, EUA products from our 
suppliers are inspected upon receipt at our distribution centers. 
As with all large-scale, global operations, from time to time, 
aspects of the network do not meet our standards. We have strict 
policies and procedures in place to protect against these issues 
and act to promptly remedy issues that arise. As an example, in 
January 2020, we issued a voluntary recall of 9.1 million surgical 
gowns and 2.9 million procedural kits when we discovered that 
one of our suppliers had shifted production of some gowns to 
unapproved sites in uncontrolled environments.
In April, Andrew Endicott, a Dublin, Ohio-based Agile Coach at  
Cardinal Health, began using 3D printers to create clear face shields  
and ear guards for masks that he then donates to frontline workers.
His project started, he said, because he wanted to keep his family safe. 
“Both of my teenaged sons went to work at a local Kroger grocery  
store soon after the pandemic started.” Endicott has Type 2 diabetes  
and is considered high-risk. “Giving them protection was important  
to me and to them.”
Before the pandemic, he had only briefly used a 3D printer to help his son 
with schoolwork. But in response to the need, he began experimenting 
with printing PPE.
“Watching the news, and seeing the need and want from so many others, made me realize that I could do more,” 
Endicott said. Once he had prototypes he liked, he reached out to a retirement community to ask if they could 
use face shields or ear guards. The retirement community wanted both.
Thanks to the donations of family and friends, Endicott had three 3D printers running almost 24/7 as of the end of 
FY20. He produced more than 3,000 ear guards and more than 400 face shields, which he donated. Some went 
to a medical company to protect delivery drivers, some went to a doctor’s office for staff use and some went to a 
nurse who traveled to New York City to work during that city’s pandemic peak. 
Word of Endicott’s work has spread, and more organizations have asked him for assistance. He says he plans to 
continue using 3D printing technology to make shields and ear guards for as long as people need them.Employee uses 3D printers to make safety devices 
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    25Strengthening  
our communities
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    26Addressing the social determinants of health
Through the Cardinal Health Foundation, our 
philanthropic efforts focus primarily on three key 
initiatives: investing in healthcare and community 
health, supporting our employees’ commitment to their 
communities and fighting prescription drug misuse. 
You can read more about this work in our FY19 
Corporate Citizenship Report »Health is determined in part by social and economic opportunities, stable housing, access 
to healthy foods and more. These factors are known as social determinants of health, and 
minority populations tend to be disproportionately affected by them. 
The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) defines food insecurity as a lack of consistent access to enough food for an  
active, healthy life. The latest data from the USDA show that in 2019, 35.2 million people lived in food-insecure households.  
And according to a Kaiser Family Foundation health tracking poll published in May 2020, one in four adults in the U.S. said  
their families had skipped meals or had received groceries from nonprofit or government food programs since the 
outbreak of COVID-19.
In children, food insecurity is related to both acute and chronic health problems, diminished healthcare access and 
increased emergency department use, according to a new study published in the journal Pediatrics . In adults, the USDA 
has found that food insecurity contributes to higher rates of disease, including hypertension, coronary heart disease, stroke, 
cancer, asthma, diabetes and kidney disease. For people of all ages, the more meals missed, the greater the effect on the 
mind and body.
In FY20, the Cardinal Health Foundation invested nearly $2.5 million in grants to combat food insecurity and housing 
instability — two social determinants that greatly influence health outcomes. By supporting organizations that increase 
access to healthy foods and prevent homelessness, we can help to improve health outcomes and eliminate health inequities.Awards and recognition
Corporate Citizenship Award
Columbus Business First
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    27Expanding support for food pharmacies
Food pharmacies help bridge the gap between healthcare 
systems and food banks to transform and sustain the healthier 
eating habits of low-income patients accessing healthcare 
services. Through partnerships between food banks or pantries 
and healthcare organizations, clinic-based food pharmacies fill 
prescriptions written by healthcare providers to give patients 
access to nutritious foods as medicine. 
Food pharmacies represent an opportunity for healthcare 
providers to engage and inspire patients around healthy eating, 
which can lead to better health outcomes and greater food 
security. In addition to providing free, nutritious foods, food 
pharmacies also support sustained nutritional behavior change 
with cooking instruction, recipe sharing and nutrition coaching. 
We awarded two-year grants to support food pharmacy 
initiatives in five communities where Cardinal Health 
employees live and work:
• Akron-Canton Regional Food Bank, in partnership with the 
Akron Children’s Hospital, Akron, Ohio. This food pharmacy 
focuses on improving the overall health of food insecure 
children and their families.• Banco de Alimentos de Puerto Rico, in partnership with 
Hospital del Maestro, Hospital Wilma Vazquez and  
Manati Medical Center, Carolina, Puerto Rico. This food 
pharmacy works to improve health outcomes and reduce 
hospital readmissions for food insecure adults with high 
blood pressure.
• OhioHealth-Grant Medical Center, in partnership with 
the Mid-Ohio Foodbank, Charitable Pharmacy, Local 
Matters and Creation Gardens, Columbus, Ohio. This food 
pharmacy focuses on improving health outcomes in food 
insecure adults with diabetes and their families.
• Our Neighbors’ Table, in partnership with Children’s Health 
Care Practices, Anna Jacques Hospital and Newbury 
Port Public Schools, Amesbury, Massachusetts. This food 
pharmacy helps to improve health outcomes for food 
insecure children and their families.
• Second Harvest Food Bank of Middle Tennessee, 
partnering with Connectus Health and Nashville General 
Hospital, Nashville, Tennessee. This food pharmacy focuses 
on improving health outcomes for food insecure patients 
with diabetes and for food insecure patients in treatment 
for cancer.
Grantees participate in a learning collaborative led by a  
third-party subject matter expert to accelerate outcomes.
The economic downturn created by the pandemic has 
greatly increased the needs of the most vulnerable in our 
communities. Employees around the globe have stepped 
up to help, including those in Doraville, Ga., below. In Early 
April, colleagues coordinated a drive to collect donations 
of canned foods, cereals, shampoos, soaps, paper towels 
and more. They delivered the donations to the Lilburn 
Co-op, a nonprofit organization that serves local families 
in need. Shown here are lead associate Collis Kitt, Nuclear 
Pharmacy Services supervisor Fred Corbett and nuclear 
pharmacist Darshini Mehta.Employees help feed the hungry
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    28Improving access to healthy foods in 
Central Ohio
More than 16% of the population in Central Ohio 
is food insecure; a recent study from The Ohio 
State University shows that as many as one-third of 
households in some of our neighborhoods do not get 
enough food. We support nonprofit organizations in 
their work to increase access to fresh foods for people 
in low-income neighborhoods. Our grant funding 
allows these organizations to increase food pantry 
hours of operation, provide a mobile grocer in food 
desert neighborhoods and/or purchase coolers for 
increased capacity to store and offer fresh foods.
Central Ohio organizations that received funding to 
fight hunger include:
• Catholic Social Services
• Community Development for All People
• Local Matters
• Lutheran Social Services
When the COVID-19 pandemic forced Tyler Tapajna, a Field 
Engineer based in Cleveland, Ohio, and his fiancé, Melanie 
Vangieson, to cancel their wedding reception this year, they 
decided to turn what could have been a disappointing day 
into a day of giving.
The couple had paid in advance for their wedding venue 
and a food truck caterer to serve dinner for 150 people. 
When the venue shut down, the couple decided to have 
a simple outdoor wedding ceremony with family then 
donate the reception food to Laura’s Home, a Cleveland 
shelter for single women and women with children.
“When we were forced to cancel the wedding, we could 
have canceled and received a refund on our food, too, but 
we loved the idea of helping others and working with our 
catering company, a local small business food truck,” Tapajna 
said. “When we asked if it would be possible to donate the 
food to the shelter, they were immediately on board to help.”
So, on their wedding day, dressed in gown and tuxedo,  
the couple served meals to 135 women and children at  
the shelter.
“We wore our wedding attire for the kids,” Tapajna said. 
“Laura’s Home wanted them to feel as if they were at a special event and, in turn, they made us feel special. When 
we walked in, we were greeted with applause.”
The couple has been featured on various news outlets for 
their act of kindness. Tapajna said that the response has 
been positive and overwhelming; numerous strangers 
have shared that they were inspired by the newlyweds’ 
story to donate to shelters on their behalf.
“Any good act can create a chain reaction of good feelings,” 
Tapajna said. “While we were at Laura’s Home serving food, 
the pure happiness and smiles we received were more 
than enough to fill our hearts with joy.”Newly married couple celebrates by supporting a local shelter
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    29Increasing access to stable housing in Central Ohio
The number of people in Central Ohio experiencing homelessness increased nearly 6% 
in 2019 over the previous year, according to a report by the US Department of Housing 
and Urban Development . And across the state, Ohio’s housing wage (the hourly earnings 
needed to pay for a basic, two-bedroom apartment) is putting rent out of reach for many, 
according to a report released  in July by the National Low Income Housing Coalition. The 
problem has been exacerbated by layoffs caused by the pandemic.
To help support those who need it most, we awarded grants to several organizations 
working with families and pregnant mothers in Franklin County, Ohio, who are at 
imminent risk of becoming homeless or those already in shelters and seeking rapid 
rehousing services. These organizations include:
• Community Shelter Board*
• Gladden Community House
• Homeless Families Foundation
• Young Men’s Christian Association (YMCA)
• Young Women’s Christian Association (YWCA)
*Community Shelter Board is a collective impact organization that drives strategy, accountability, collaboration and resources to 
achieve the best outcomes for people facing homelessness in Franklin County. This organization will provide system leadership, 
training and technical assistance to the other grantees to help strengthen progress and outcomes.
For low-income families, school closures caused by the COVID-19 pandemic mean 
more than a disruption in education; they also disrupt the critical source of food for 
children who depend on free and reduced-price meals. Closed schools also mean a 
loss of routine childcare for working parents and a lack of access to social workers and 
healthcare providers. 
That is why, soon after the pandemic closed schools in Central Ohio this past spring, 
the Cardinal Health Foundation donated to the Mid-Ohio Foodbank and to the United 
Way of Central Ohio (UWCO) to support the organizations’ COVID-19 emergency 
response efforts for children and families in need.
The Foundation made a $500,000 donation to the Mid-Ohio Foodbank to help provide 
low-income children with meals during extended school closures. A smaller gift to 
the UWCO supported a matching fund to help meet the basic needs of those facing 
economic distress due to COVID-19.
The Foundation encouraged its food pharmacy grantees in five communities across 
the U.S., including Columbus, Ohio, to redeploy a portion of grant funding to meet 
local emergency food needs. That flexibility in funding allowed all the grantees to 
better respond to the growing number of hungry people in their communities as 
a result of the pandemic. Learn more about food pharmacies and our five grant 
recipients on page 29. Supporting COVID-19 emergency responses in Central Ohio
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    30Operating 
sustainably  
and responsibly
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    31Around the globe, we continue to look for ways to reduce landfill burden, conserve water, reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions and design products and services that reduce overall environmental impact. Operating sustainably
Total recycled                Total usageWater usage  
(million cubic meters)
FY20 numbers represent 81% of total square footage.FY18FY19FY20
5.14.94.6
1.00.50.5
0 6 7 5 4 3 2 1
Scope 1 (direct)*               Scope 2 (indirect)*              Scope 3 (other indirect)**Greenhouse gas emissions  
(thousand metric tons CO2e)
* Calculated according to The Climate Register General Reporting Protocol.
**  Calculated according to the U.S. EPA Emission Factors for Greenhouse Gas Inventories. Our calculations 
include only North American-based air travel. 
 FY20 numbers represent 89% of total square footage. 
 Cardinal Health engaged APEX in an independent verification of our reported greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions. Our FY20 GHG emissions have been verified at a Limited Level of Assurance: Scope 1, 
Scope 2 (location based) and Scope 3 (air travel departing from North America only). 
 Note:  FY20 Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions have decreased due to updating emission factors and 
COVID-19.  Scope 3 emissions have decreased due to COVID-19 business travel restrictions.FY18FY19FY20
335 23350290
1611
177169153
0 600 500 400 300 200 100
You’ll find 
highlights of our 
work to reduce our 
carbon footprint 
in FY20 here. You 
can learn more in 
our FY19 Corporate 
Citizenship Report »
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    32Total Waste Management is a new initiative at Cardinal Health intended to simplify and 
standardize waste management throughout the organization. It also will create business value 
by strengthening compliance for waste management, supporting business-critical operations 
and standardizing waste classification with SortSafe, a web-based tool that also provides insight 
into the tracking of waste shipments and facility waste generation — which will help  
us improve overall operational efficiency.
Cardinal Health has partnered with Veolia North America, the global leader in optimized resource management, to support 
the Total Waste Management initiative. Veolia provides water, waste and energy management solutions that contribute to 
the sustainable development of communities and industries.
We will begin rolling out this program more broadly in FY21 with a comprehensive facility assessment of our operations 
across North America. This baseline assessment will allow us to identify the kinds and quantity of waste generated at each 
facility, how the waste is handled and disposed of, and opportunities to decrease cost, increase operational efficiency and 
identify alternative waste treatment methods that are more sustainable.
Barring any potential operations or travel-related restrictions associated with COVID-19, we will launch the Total Waste 
Management initiative in Latin American and Canadian facilities in early 2021. By the end of FY22, we hope to begin 
establishing the program in the Asia Pacific region, Europe, the Middle East and Africa. 
Once fully integrated throughout the enterprise by FY23, we expect that Total Waste Management will save at least 3% in 
waste management costs per year organization-wide compared to FY20 levels.Total Waste Management 
2020                  2019                  2018Recycling data (million pounds)
Electronics 0.4<0.1
0.4
20 10 0 30 40 50 60Wood
47.744.546.1
Cardboard
42.848.251.3
Paper
3.72.41.7
Plastics
23.521.425
Metals
2.62.11.9
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    33Greensboro PD Total Waste Management pilot
Our EHS team joined forces with employees at our Pharmaceutical Distribution Center in 
Greensboro, N.C., to pilot and validate the Total Waste Management process. Through the 
pilot, we identified 35.1 tons of waste per year that can be diverted from landfills and treated 
in a sustainable waste-to-energy process. We have also developed a list of recommendations 
to reduce waste management-related costs for the Greensboro Distribution Center. Just as 
significantly, the Total Waste Management initiative gives us a solution that complies with 
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) new Pharmaceutical Hazardous Waste Rule 
(Subpart P).
Gown and kit recall
As referenced earlier, in January 2020, Cardinal Health issued a voluntary recall of 9.1 million 
surgical gowns and 2.9 million procedural kits due to issues with one of our suppliers. 
(A supplier had shifted production of some gowns to unapproved sites in uncontrolled 
environments; we could not assure the sterility of the gowns for surgical use.) 
COVID-19 emerged around the same time, disrupting the supply chain and creating a 
significant increase in global demand for PPE. Although our recalled gowns could no longer 
be used in sterile environments, they could be used for non-surgical use, and we donated 
approximately 3.4 million of them to frontline workers.The gown and kit components that could not be donated represented 4.5 million pounds of 
non-hazardous waste, all of which could have been landfilled. Instead, the EHS team leveraged 
cost-effective waste-to-energy treatment solutions and sent the gowns to an approved end 
disposal facility that converted them into electricity that was then used at the disposal facility 
and in the surrounding community. 
In fact, the gowns and kit components were transformed into 1.2 million kWh of electricity, 
enough clean energy to power the equivalent of more than 1,300 homes for a month. 
The process also eliminated the generation of 2,200 tons of carbon dioxide and recovered 
approximately 1 14,000 pounds of metal for recycling.Recycled                   Non-recycledTotal recycling and waste (million pounds)
* Total hazardous waste comprises less than 2% of all waste generated.
 FY20 waste and recycling numbers represent 81% of total square footage.FY18FY19FY20
424885
134133130
0 150 200 250 100 50
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    34Cardinal Health is a member of Business for Social Responsibility™, a non-profit 
organization that works to develop sustainable business strategies and solutions 
through consulting, research and cross-sector collaboration. Through our 
Responsible Procurement and Manufacturing program, we have identified our 
top environmental, social and governance priorities for our suppliers and have 
communicated the company’s expectations to our supplier network.
Our suppliers are required to comply with our vendor code of conduct, which sets forth the obligation of 
all vendors and suppliers that do business with Cardinal Health. We also have a Global Human Rights and 
Labor Standards policy, which establishes requirements for global conduct related to human rights and labor 
standards, and we issue an annual Modern Slavery Statement that sets forth the steps Cardinal Health has 
taken to prevent modern slavery and human trafficking in the business and supply chain. These policies and 
the statement can be found here.   
We have been enhancing our Medical segment’s supply chain sustainability due diligence procedures 
for self-manufactured and sourced medical products. Recognizing that our operations rely on a network 
of thousands of manufacturing locations across the globe, including self-manufacturing, contract 
manufacturing, private label, and OEM (original equipment manufacturer) suppliers, we completed 
supplier sustainability risk assessments in FY20 and prioritized supplier engagement based on inherent 
country and category risks, material priorities and business impact. We have been enhancing processes for 
risk assessments, including supplier questionnaires and on-site audits, and have focused on suppliers with 
the highest inherent risk for human rights and labor standards as well as for environmental, health and 
safety and business ethics issues.Sourcing sustainably
In Rayong, Thailand, where 
rapid industrial growth has 
increased waste generation 
and depleted natural 
resources, our employees 
participate in a variety of 
volunteer activities designed 
to increase environmental 
sustainability. 
Recently, a team of 
employees launched an education partnership with Samnak Wat Kraton School 
to teach young children about the environmental impact of garbage and how to 
reduce the impact by recycling and composting. 
This is part of a larger and ongoing partnership with the school. Recently, for example, 
a technician from Rayong’s Cardinal Health Engineering department visited the school 
to repair electrical hazards throughout the building. Although the pandemic forced 
the postponement of visits to the school, the Rayong team plans to return in FY21 to 
provide additional education — and repairs, as needed.
Our Rayong employees have also joined forces with employees from other 
companies in the region to plant trees in Amata City, helping to restore green 
spaces in that industrial estate. This is an annual event during which volunteers 
plant hundreds of trees throughout the city. As the trees grow, they help to reduce 
temperatures, increase biodiversity and absorb CO2.Supporting environmental sustainability in Thailand
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    35Governance  
and ethics
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    36Board of Directors 
Our directors are responsible for exercising their business judgment in 
good faith and for acting in what they believe to be the best interests of 
the company. The Board’s responsibilities include: 
• Oversight of management in the conduct of our businesses and of management’s efforts to 
establish and maintain high standards of legal and ethical conduct 
• Review of and (where appropriate) approval of the company’s major business strategies, 
capital deployment and long-term plans 
• Review of company performance 
• Selection and evaluation of the CEO and other senior officers 
• Setting compensation for the CEO and other senior officers 
• Planning for management succession 
• Oversight of management’s accounting, financial reporting and financial and other controls 
• Oversight of risk management policies and practices 
• Recommending appropriate candidates for the Board Our Corporate Governance Guidelines require that the Board be diverse, engaged and 
independent. Our Board reflects a diversity of skills; of professional, gender, ethnic and personal 
backgrounds; and of experience and thought, and includes a balance of longer-serving 
directors with newer ones. 
Gender and ethnic diversity
4 
Women3 
Ethnically diverse
Years of service on the board
7 
0 to 3 years2 
4 to 10 years4 
1 1 to 15 years6 years 
Average tenure 
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    37Board of Directors
David C. Evans  
Retired CFO, The 
Scotts Miracle-Gro 
Company  
Committee: APatricia A. 
Hemingway Hall  
Retired President  
and CEO, Health Care 
Service Corporation  
Committees: H, NAkhil Johri  
Retired EVP and CFO,  
United Technologies  
Committees: A, N, SGMichael C. 
Kaufmann  
CEO, Cardinal HealthNancy Killefer  
Retired Senior Partner  
Public Sector Practice, 
McKinsey & Company  
Committees: H, SG
J. Michael Losh  
Retired EVP and CFO, 
General Motors  
Committee: ADean A. 
Scarborough  
Retired Chairman and  
CEO, Avery Dennison  
Committee: HJohn H. Weiland  
Retired President and  
COO, C. R. Bard  
Committees: A, SG
Committee codes: A: Audit; AH: Ad Hoc; H: Human Resources and Compensation; N: Nominating and Governance; and SG: Surgical Gown Recall Oversight. The Ad Hoc Committee of independent directors 
was formed in 2018 to assist the Board in overseeing the company’s response to the opioid crisis. The Surgical Gown Recall Oversight Committee of independent directors was formed in January 2020 to 
assist the Board in overseeing the company’s response to a surgical gown recall. All Board members, with the exception of CEO Mike Kaufmann, are independent.Gregory B. Kenny  
Chairman of the Board 
Retired President  
and CEO, General 
Cable Corp.  
Committees: N, AH, SGCarrie S. Cox  
Retired Chairman and 
CEO, Humacyte, Inc.  
Committees: H, AHCalvin Darden  
Retired SVP of  
U.S. Operations, UPS  
Committees: H, AHBruce L. Downey  
Retired Chairman 
and CEO, Barr 
Pharmaceuticals and 
Partner, NewSpring 
Health Capital II, LP  
Committees: N, AHSheri H. Edison  
EVP and General 
Counsel, Amcor plc  
Committee: A
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    38The Cardinal Health Standards of Business Conduct communicate both 
our company’s core values and our standards to our employees and 
provide specific guidance for how we interact with each other and with 
customers, vendors and all other third parties. These standards are:
• Act with integrity and in compliance with the law 
• Ask questions, seek guidance and raise concerns 
• Treat one another fairly and foster a safe, productive,  
diverse and environmentally responsible workplace 
• Avoid conflicts of interest 
• Compete with integrity in the marketplace 
• Protect the integrity of the global supply chain 
• Interact appropriately with government entities,  
officials and employees • Maintain accurate books and records 
• Protect information and assets  
• Encourage individual volunteerism and corporate social responsibility 
All of our employees worldwide are trained on our Standards of Business 
Conduct when they join the company, and they certify compliance 
annually thereafter. 
We build on our Standards of Business Conduct when we implement 
company-wide policies that provide guidelines for doing our jobs in 
compliance with the laws and regulations applicable to each business 
unit’s operations. From our manufacturing facilities to our distribution 
centers to our Sales and Marketing teams, these policies often require 
detailed procedures to ensure appropriate review and approval,  
where required. Standards of Business Conduct
For more details on 
governance and ethics 
at Cardinal Health, 
please see pages 59-62 
of our FY19 Corporate 
Citizenship Report »
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    39We refer to this report as an interim Corporate Citizenship 
Report because much of the content covers our response to 
COVID-19 and calls for social justice that occurred during the 
second half of our fiscal year 2020 (Jan. 1 2020-June 30, 2020). 
We intend to publish a full Corporate Citizenship Report for 
our fiscal year 2021. Unless otherwise indicated, data in this 
report are reflective of the fiscal year 2020 (July 1, 2019-June 
30, 2020). The statistics and metrics included in this report may 
be based on estimates, assumptions or developing standards. 
Except for the greenhouse gas emissions data, the information 
in this report has not been externally assured or verified by an 
independent third party. 
Cardinal Health is headquartered in Dublin, Ohio. More than 
97% of our FY20 revenue was generated in the United States. 
Although the scope of this report primarily reflects the United 
States, the governance and ethics sections in this report 
reflect company-wide practice. In addition, EHS data are 
based on our global operations. 
GRI and SASB standards
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option and the 
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) standards for Health Care Distributors. It takes into account topic-specific 
GRI standards that we identified through our ESG priority 
assessment, which is discussed on pages 9-10 of our FY19 
Corporate Citizenship Report. The GRI standards represent 
global best practice for reporting publicly on a range of 
economic, environmental and social impacts. Sustainability 
reporting based on the standards provides information 
about an organization’s positive or negative contributions to 
sustainable development. SASB standards include 77 industry-
specific standards that enable businesses around the world 
to identify, manage and communicate financially material 
sustainability information to their investors. The inclusion 
of information in this report in response to the GRI and 
SASB standards should not be construed as an admission or 
conclusion that the information is material to our investors.
For more details, please refer to the GRI and SASB indices at the 
end of this report.
Forward-looking statements 
This report contains forward-looking statements addressing 
expectations, prospects, estimates and other matters that 
are dependent on future events or developments. These 
statements may be identified by words such as “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “will,” “should,” “could,” 
“would,” “project,” “continue,” “likely,” “commit to” or other words 
or expressions of similar meaning, although not all forward-
looking statements contain such terms. Actual results may 
differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied 
in forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors, 
including the risks and uncertainties described in our Form 
10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports and exhibits to those 
reports. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date 
this document is first published. Except to the extent required 
by applicable law, Cardinal Health undertakes no obligation 
to update or revise any forward-looking statement. Forward-
looking statements are aspirational and not guarantees  
or promises that goals or targets will be met. Investors  
are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any  
forward-looking statements.About this report 
For more information about corporate 
citizenship at Cardinal Health, please see 
our FY19 full report »
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    40ESG indices
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    41GRI index
The GRI content index includes references to this 2020 Corporate Citizenship Report (CCR), our 2019 CCR, our 2020 Form 10-K, our 2020 Proxy Statement and other information 
available on cardinalhealth.com. The inclusion of information in this report in response to the GRI standards should not be construed as an admission or conclusion that the 
information is material to our investors.
GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016*
GRI Standard/
DisclosureDescription Page/Comment
Organizational profile
102-1 Name of the Organization Cardinal Health, Inc.
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 2020 CCR (pg. 6), Form 10-K (pg. 26-27)
102-3 Location of headquarters 7000 Cardinal Place, Dublin, Ohio 43017
102-4 Location of operations Form 10-K (pg. 40)
102-5 Ownership and legal form Cardinal Health, Inc. is a publicly held Ohio corporation that is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under ticker symbol CAH.
102-6 Markets served 2020 CCR (pg. 6), Form 10-K  (pg. 26-28)
102-7 Scale of the organization 2020 CCR (pg. 6), Form 10-K (pg. 28, 40, 49-52, 73-74)
102-8 Information on employees and other workers 2020 CCR (pg. 6 and 18), Form 10-K (pg. 28)
102-9 Supply  chain 2020 CCR (pg. 24-25 and 35), 2019 CCR  (pg. 35-36 and 38-39)
102-10 Significant changes to the organization or its supply chain Form 10-K (pg. 27)
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Cardinal Health does not have an official policy as it pertains to the precautionary principle.  
102-12 External initiatives 2019 CCR  (pg. 5 and 60)
102-13 Membership of associations 2019 CCR  (pg. 62), Political Activities and Contributions Report (pg. 2 and 3)
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    42GRI Standard/
DisclosureDescription Page/Comment
Strategy
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2020 CCR (pg. 3-5)
Ethics and integrity
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 2020 CCR (pg. 7 and 39), Standards of Business Conduct
102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 2019 CCR  (pg. 61), Standards of Business Conduct  (pp. 13-15)
Governance
102-18 Governance structure 2020 CCR (pg. 37-38), 2019 CCR  (pg. 9), Proxy Statement (pg. 17-20)
102-25 Conflicts of interest 2020 CCR (pg. 39), Standards of Business Conduct  (pg. 21-22), Proxy Statement  (pg. 27)
Stakeholder engagement
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Our stakeholders include the following groups that may be affected by or could influence or impact our activities: shareholders, peers, 
partners, suppliers, industry associations, customers, employees and prospective talent, non-governmental or non-profit organizations, 
media, product standard-setters, community representatives, governments, regulators, international policy organizations and 
disclosure standard-setters.
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Approximately 1% of our U.S. workforce is covered by collective bargaining agreements. We have a portion of employees outside 
the U.S. covered under work councils or collective bargaining agreements. These vary in scope by country or region based on local 
regulatory or compliance requirements or customary practice.
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 2019 CCR  (pg. 9 and 1 1)
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 2019 CCR (pg. 1 1), Proxy Statement  (pg. 25)
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 2019 CCR  (pg. 9-10), Proxy Statement  (pg. 25)
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    43GRI Standard/
DisclosureDescription Page/Comment
Reporting practice
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated  
financial statementsForm 10-K  (Exhibit 21.1)
102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 2020 CCR (pg. 40), 2019 CCR  (pg. 9-10)
102-47 List of material topics 2019 CCR (pg. 10)
102-48 Restatements of information Cardinal Health has no restatements of information to report for FY20.
102-49 Changes in reporting None
102-50 Reporting period July 1, 2019-June 30, 2020
102-51 Date of most recent report Our 2019 CCR was published in May 2020.
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report ESGinquiries@cardinalhealth.com  or Investor Relations at 614.757 .1607 or investor.relations@cardinalhealth.com
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the  
GRI StandardsThis report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option.
102-55 GRI content index 2020 CCR (pg. 42)
102-56 External assurance Some of our environmental data is assured; see 2020 CCR (pg. 32). We did not seek external assurance for the remainder of the data in 
the 2020 CCR. See 2020 Verification Statement,  2019 Verification Statement  and 2018 Verification Statement . 
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    44GRI 200-400 Topic-Specific Disclosures 2016*
GRI Standard/
DisclosureDescription Page/Comment
Indirect Economic Impacts
GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016
103-1  
103-2  
103-3Management approach Our supplier diversity program reports to our President, U.S. Sales, Medical Solutions, who reports to our CEO, Medical Segment. See also 
2019 CCR  (p. 39). Our VP , Community Relations reports to our Chief Human Resources Officer (CHRO). With respect to the management 
approach regarding the company’s response to the opioid epidemic, see Proxy Statement (pg. 7 , 20 and 22) and GRI 416.
Boundary: Communities, Customers, Investors, Policymakers, Suppliers
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 2020 CCR (pg. 27-30), Proxy Statement  (pg. 7) and 2019 CCR (pg. 39 and 42-27)
Anti-Corruption
GRI 205: Anti-Corruption 2016
103-1  
103-2  
103-3Management approach Our Chief Legal and Compliance Officer (CLCO) has responsibility to implement and maintain an effective ethics and compliance 
program. She is assisted in that role by our SVP of Ethics & Compliance, who administers the program. Our Board’s Audit Committee 
oversees our ethics and compliance program. Segment compliance committees comprised of the top segment executives meet 
regularly to support the program. In addition, we have a robust ethics and compliance organization with compliance professionals 
who work alongside business leaders throughout the world.
2020 CCR (pg. 39), 2019 CCR  (pg. 60), Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy
Boundary: Communities, Customers, Investors, Policymakers, Suppliers
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 2019 CCR  (pg. 60), Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption 
policies and procedures2019 CCR  (pg. 60), Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    45GRI Standard/
DisclosureDescription Page/Comment
Energy
GRI 302: Energy 2016
103-1  
103-2  
103-3Management approach Our environmental governance and management systems are part of an integrated environment, health, and safety (EHS) 
management approach. The Vice President, EHS leads our EHS management efforts and elevates matters when required to the SVP , 
Corporate Security and the CHRO. Our Board’s Nominating and Governance Committee oversees environmental sustainability and 
other corporate citizenship activities.
2019 CCR (pg. 49)
Our latest CDP submission  is posted on our corporate website and contains more information about how we are managing risks 
and opportunities arising out of climate change. We aim to align our management of climate-related risks to the recommendations 
laid out by the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). By the end of 2021, we plan to set a public greenhouse gas 
emissions reduction goal for our pharmaceutical distribution business. We also plan to explore the use of climate scenario analysis to 
better assess our exposure to climate-related risk.
Boundary: Communities, Customers, Investors, Policymakers
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization We consumed 4,960,000 gigajoules (GJ) of energy during FY20, including 4,955,000 GJ from non-renewable sources (diesel fuel, motor 
gasoline, jet kerosene, liquified propane gas and natural gas) and 4,870 GJ from renewable fuel sources (solar PV production). We 
purchased 2,323,000 GJ of electricity. 
Our total energy consumption was aggregated using standard reporting methodology published by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol 
and The Climate Registry General Reporting Protocol. All conversion factors were aligned with The Climate Registry 2019 Table 1.1 
where possible; otherwise, conversions used were from the U.S. Energy Information Association.
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    46GRI Standard/
DisclosureDescription Page/Comment
Emissions
GRI 305: Emissions 2016
103-1  
103-2  
103-3Management approach Please refer to GRI 302 for a description of our management approach to EHS matters.
Boundary: Communities, Customers, Investors, Policymakers
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 2020 CCR (pg. 32)
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 2020 CCR (pg. 32)
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 2020 CCR (pg. 32)
Environmental Compliance
GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016
103-1  
103-2  
103-3Management approach Please refer to GRI 302 for a description of our management approach to EHS matters.
Boundary: Communities, Investors, Policymakers
307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws  
and regulationsWe report on significant incidents of noncompliance, and any allegations of significant incidents of noncompliance, in our Forms 10-K 
and 10-Q filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Supplier Environmental Assessment
GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016
103-1  
103-2  
103-3Management approach 2020 CCR (pg. 35)
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using  
environmental criteriaThe percentage of new suppliers screened is not available at this time.
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    47GRI Standard/
DisclosureDescription Page/Comment
Employment
GRI 401: Employment 2016
103-1  
103-2  
103-3Management approach Responsibility for our human resources function sits with our CHRO, who reports to our CEO. Our Human Resources and 
Compensation Committee provides Board-level oversight of this function, including overseeing and advising the Board about our 
human capital management strategies and policies, including with respect to attracting, developing, retaining and motivating 
management and employees, workplace diversity and inclusion initiatives and progress, employee relations and workplace safety and 
culture. Senior leaders specializing in various human resource specialties report to the CHRO.
2020 CCR (pg. 9-18)
Boundary: Prospective employees
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover We hired more than 7 ,900 employees in FY20 globally, including more than 6,500 in the U.S.
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 
provided to temporary or part-time employeesWe operate in several countries and benefit offerings vary accordingly. We offer competitive benefits based on local customs 
and practices, which can include health and wellness benefits, savings programs to prepare for financial security and retirement, 
commuter subsidies to encourage the use of public transportation, time away from work benefits, and flexible work arrangements 
when possible. 
2020 CCR (pg. 10-1 1), 2019 CCR  (pg. 18-19)
Occupational Health and Safety
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018
103-1  
103-2  
103-3Management approach Please refer to GRI 302 for a description of our management approach to EHS matters. In addition, our Human Resources and 
Compensation Committee provides Board-level oversight of workplace safety.
2020 CCR (pg. 19-20)
Boundary: Prospective employees
403-9 Work-related injuries 2020 CCR (pg. 20)
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    48GRI Standard/
DisclosureDescription Page/Comment
Training and Education
GRI 404: Training and Education 2016
103-1  
103-2  
103-3Management approach Please refer to GRI 401 for a description of our management approach to human resources matters.
2019 CCR (pg. 20-22)
Boundary: Prospective employees
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 16.6
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 
assistance programs2019 CCR (pg. 20-22)
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 
and career development reviews100%
Diversity and Equal Opportunity
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016
103-1  
103-2  
103-3Management approach Please refer to GRI 401 for a description of our management approach to human resources matters.
2020 CCR (pg. 12-18)
Boundary: Prospective employees
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 2020 CCR (pg. 18 and 37-38)
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    49GRI Standard/
DisclosureDescription Page/Comment
Local Communities
GRI 413: Local Communities 2016
103-1  
103-2  
103-3Management approach Please refer to GRI 203 for a description of our management approach to community relations and community initiatives to combat 
opioid misuse.
2020 CCR (pg. 27-30), Proxy Statement  (pg. 7)
Boundary: Communities, Customers, Investors, Policymakers
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact 
assessments and development programs2020 CCR (pg. 27-30) , Proxy Statement  (pg. 7)
Supplier Social Assessment
GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016
103-1  
103-2  
103-3Management approach Please refer to GRI 308 for a description of our management approach to supply chain management, including our  
Vendor Code of Conduct.
2020 CCR (pg. 35)
Boundary: Customers, Investors, Suppliers
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria The percentage of new suppliers screened is not available at this time.
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    50GRI Standard/
DisclosureDescription Page/Comment
Customer Health and Safety
GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016
103-1  
103-2  
103-3Management approach Responsibility for quality and regulatory matters across Cardinal Health sits with our EVP , Quality and Regulatory, who reports to our 
CLCO. The EVP , Quality and Regulatory is a member of the leadership teams of each of the segment CEOs and regularly updates the 
segment CEOs on quality and regulatory matters. The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors oversees our quality and regulatory 
program. The Board formed a separate Surgical Gown Recall Oversight Committee of independent directors in January 2020 to assist 
the Board in overseeing the company’s response to a surgical gown recall that occurred during FY20.  See Proxy Statement  (pg. 20 
and 22) for more information.
2020 CCR (pg. 24-25), 2019 CCR  (pg. 32-33 and 35-36)
Our CLCO has responsibility for oversight of our controlled substances anti-diversion compliance program and our defense of opioid 
litigation. Our SVP of Supply Chain Integrity, who reports to the CLCO, administers the anti-diversion compliance program. Our EVP , 
Quality and Regulatory, who also reports to the CLCO, has responsibility for quality and regulatory compliance in our Pharmaceutical 
Distribution business, including aspects of supply security and reporting. The Board’s Ad Hoc Committee comprised of independent 
directors assists the Board in its oversight of opioid-related issues. 
Proxy Statement  (pg. 7 , 20 and 22), Addressing the Opioid Crisis: Board Engagement and Governance
Boundary: Customers, Investors, Suppliers
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product 
and service categories2020 CCR (pg. 24-25), 2019 CCR  (pg. 32-33 and 35-36) 
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    51GRI Standard/
DisclosureDescription Page/Comment
Customer Privacy
GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016
103-1  
103-2  
103-3Management approach Our Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) and our Chief Information Officer (CIO), who reports to the CEO, oversee our programs 
to prevent, detect, contain, and respond to information security incidents. The Board’s Audit Committee oversees our major 
information technology risk exposures, and the steps management has taken to monitor and control such exposures. The Board and 
Audit Committee have received regular updates on our cybersecurity programs. Assisting in program oversight are an Information 
Technology Risk Governance Committee, in which the CIO and CLCO participate, and a Privacy Committee. Both committees are 
cross-functional and comprised of senior managers and meet on a regular basis. 
2019 CCR (pg. 37), Form 10-K  (pg. 30, 37)
Boundary: Customers, Investors
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of 
customer privacy and losses of customer data2019 CCR  (pg. 37), Form 10-K  (pg. 30, 37)
Socioeconomic Compliance
GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016
103-1  
103-2  
103-3Management approach Please refer to GRI 205 and GRI 416 for a description of our management approach to ethics and compliance, quality and regulatory 
matters and anti-diversion compliance program.
Boundary: Customers, Investors, Suppliers
419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social 
and economic areaWe report on significant incidents of noncompliance, and any allegations of significant incidents of noncompliance, in our Forms 10-K 
and 10-Q filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
*Cardinal Health’s 2020 Corporate Citizenship Report applies the 2016 version of the GRI Standards. “2016” refers to the Standards issue date, not the date of information presented in this report. 
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    52SASB Code Metric Page/Comment
Fleet Fuel Management
HC -DI-1 10a.1 Payload fuel economy We utilize a mix of commercial and dedicated third party transportation and logistics providers as well operate a private fleet of 
delivery vehicles for the delivery of our products. We do not have direct operational control over the commercial provider deliveries 
and do not have access to our third-party partners' fuel economy data.  We utilize SmartWay partners whenever possible. Our private 
fleet operates a mix on local route deliveries and regional line haul shuttles.
HC -DI-1 10a.2 Description of efforts to reduce the environmental 
impact of logistics2019 CCR (pg. 53)
Product Safety
HC -DI-250a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal 
proceedings associated with product safetyWe report on significant legal proceedings associated with product safety in our Forms 10-K and 10-Q filed with the U.S. Securities 
and Exchange Commission.
HC -DI-250a.2 Description of efforts to minimize health and safety 
risks of products sold associated with toxicity/chemical 
safety, high abuse potential, or delivery2020 CCR (pg. 24-25), 2019 CCR  (pp. 32-33, 35-36, 38), Proxy Statement  (pg. 7), Addressing the Opioid Crisis: Board Engagement  
and Governance
Counterfeit Drugs
HC -DI-260a.1 Description of methods and technologies used to 
maintain traceability of products throughout the 
distribution chain and prevent counterfeiting2019 CCR (pg. 35-36)SASB index
The following is a Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) content index for the Health Care Distributors Sustainability Accounting Standard. It includes references to this 2020 CCR, our 
2019 CCR, our 2020 Form 10-K, our 2020 Proxy Statement and other information available on cardinalhealth.com. The inclusion of information in this report in response to the SASB standards 
should not be construed as an admission or conclusion that the information is material to our investors. Certain of our disclosures are only partially aligned with the applicable SASB metrics.
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    53© 2021 Cardinal Health. All Rights Reserved. CARDINAL HEALTH, the Cardinal Health LOGO and ESSENTIAL TO CARE are trademarks of Cardinal Health  
and may be registered in the US and/or in other countries. All other marks are the property of their respective owners. Lit. No. 5PR21-1326673 (01/2021)SASB Code Metric Page/Comment
HC -DI-260a.2 Discussion of due diligence process to qualify suppliers 
of drug products and medical equipment and devices2019 CCR (pg. 33)
HC -DI-260a.3 Discussion of process for alerting customers and 
business partners of potential or known risks associated 
with counterfeit products2019 CCR (pg. 35-36)
Product Lifecycle Management
HC -DI-410a.1 Discussion of strategies to reduce the environmental 
impact of packaging throughout its lifecycle2019 CCR (pg. 52)
HC -DI-410a.2 Amount (by weight) of products accepted for take-back 
and reused, recycled, or donated2020 CCR (pg. 33-34), 2019 CCR  (pg. 52)
Business Ethics
HC -DI-510a.1 Description of efforts to minimize conflicts of interest 
and unethical business practices2020 CCR (pg. 39), 2019 CCR  (pg. 59-61), Standards of Business Conduct  (pg. 13-15, 21-27 , 33-35) 
HC -DI-510a.2 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal 
proceedings associated with bribery, corruption, or 
other unethical business practicesWe report on significant legal proceedings associated with bribery, corruption or other unethical business practices in our Forms 
10-K and 10-Q filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In addition, in February 2020, Cardinal Health entered 
into a settlement agreement with the SEC for $8.8 million to settle alleged violations of the internal controls and books and records 
provisions of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The allegations related to activities of a Chinese pharmaceutical and medical 
device distribution business that Cardinal Health divested in 2018. Cardinal Health did not deny or admit to the SEC’s findings and the 
U.S. Department of Justice declined to take any action against Cardinal Health.
Activity Metrics
HC -DI-000.A Number of pharmaceutical units sold by  
product categoryWe do not report the number of pharmaceutical units sold but we do report Pharmaceutical segment revenue in our Form 10-K.  
See Form 10-K  (pg. 73-74)
HC -DI-000.B Number of medical devices sold by product category We do not report the number of medical units sold but we do report Medical segment revenue in our Form 10-K.  
See Form 10-K (pg. 73-74)
Table of contents           Our people           Customers and partners           Our communities           Sustainability           Governance           ESG indices FY20 Interim Corporate Citizenship Report    |    54