Sustainability 
Report  
20214 CEO’s Statement
carsales Sustainability Report 2021CONTENTS
02 About carsales01 Introduction 10 Our Material Topics
11 Our People
19 Customers
24 Community
26 Innovation
28 Governance
32 Environment
35 Sustainability Road Map
37 Future Reporting
39  Sustainability Performance FY21
41 GRI and SASB Content Indexes
45 Corporate Directory03 Performance Highlights8 About This Report 6 Sustainability Strategy1
carsales Sustainability Report 2021
INTRODUCTION
INTRODUCTION
Everything  
you auto  
knowThis year we have expanded our 
Sustainability Report, building on  
our work in previous years to give a 
clearer and more detailed picture of  
our evolving approach to sustainability.
In addition to internal discussions and considerations, 
we have consulted with a broader group of external 
stakeholders to gauge their concerns and find out what 
sustainability topics are material to them.
We have gained a heightened understanding of 
what our investors see as material, who influences 
their views about sustainability issues generally and 
what they expect of carsales. We have reviewed the 
feedback from our customers to better understand 
what issues are of the most importance to them and how we can continue to meet or exceed their 
expectations and maintain their trust and loyalty.  
We have also started looking in greater detail at our 
relationships with suppliers to ensure that we are 
aligned when it comes to major issues like modern 
slavery and carbon emissions.
This report explains what sustainability means 
to carsales and how we seek to become more 
sustainable as a company. We show how our desire 
for continuous improvement translates into clear 
strategies to achieve our goals and targets, firm action 
across multiple areas of our business and careful 
monitoring of the outcomes and our progress towards 
achieving them. We provide a Road Map on page 35  
to show where we intend to go in future years of 
our sustainability journey. We also provide our 
performance for FY21 starting on page 39.2 carsales Sustainability Report 2021Adjusted Revenue1Adjusted EBITDA1Adjusted NPAT1
FY17319
FY17170
FY17116
FY18377
FY18202
FY18127
FY19418
FY19218
FY19130
FY20422
FY20232
FY20138
FY21438CAGR 8%
CAGR 11%CAGR 7%
FY21254
FY21153carsales.com Ltd (ASX: CAR) (ACN 074 444 018) is an Australian publicly listed company 
with headquarters in Melbourne. carsales operates the largest online automotive, 
motorcycle and marine classifieds business in Australia. It attracts more Australians 
interested in buying or selling cars, motorcycles, trucks, caravans and boats than  
any other classified group of websites. 
carsales brings together consumers, dealers, manufacturers and advertisers to deliver some of the best solutions and 
experiences in the global automotive classified business. Employing more than 1,200 people globally, carsales develops 
world leading technology and advertising solutions that drive its businesses around the world. The carsales network has 
operations across the Asia Pacific region and has interests in leading automotive classified businesses in Brazil, South 
Korea, Chile, Argentina, Mexico, Malaysia, Indonesia and Thailand.ABOUT CARSALES
STRONG TRACK RECORD OF GROWTH
1.  Adjusted Revenue excludes COVID-19 support rebate provided to dealers, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted NPAT is post non-controlling interests and excludes 
certain non-recurring or non-cash items. See  investor materials regarding the  disclosure of non-IFRS Information and for a reconciliation of Reported to 
Adjusted financials. 2. FY20 Asia segment revenue and expense has been restated to treat certain expenses as a reduction in revenue, resulting in a A$1.4m 
reduction in revenue and expense.Well positioned to continue delivering long-term shareholder value through world-class capability, 
exposure to international growth markets and investment in new products and services.3
carsales Sustainability Report 2021
ABOUT  
CARSALESPERFORMANCE 
HIGHLIGHTS
PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS
Group 
highlightsAustralian  
highlightsPeople 
highlights
1.1 billion+
user sessions in all  
of our markets
>36,000
car dealers
42 million
leads delivered,  
up 35% 
6 countries
with leading positions10x
more time spent on site 
vs no.2 competitor
>375 million
visits, up 21% 
122%
Increase in Instant Offer 
transactions
28%
reduction in  
time to sell95%
of employees are 
confident in our response 
to the COVID-19 pandemic
WGEA
Employer of Choice 
2015-2021
Great Place  
to Work®
certified 2018 -2021
48 projects
built during our  
2020 Hackathon4
carsales Sustainability Report 2021We have spent many years 
building our culture and I believe 
we have created something really 
special – a team that is engaged, 
dedicated and can handle any 
challenge. I am proud of how well the 
team has adapted to the challenges 
we have faced, switching between 
working remotely and in the office, 
yet still collaborating and continuing  
to provide the superb service our  
customers expect.
I am also really excited about the culture of innovation  
that continues to grow in this company. We have been 
technologically innovative since we first opened for business 
and our creativity continues today. We constantly task our 
teams with developing new products and ideas and they 
have already created and brought to market a number  
of innovative services, apps, enhancements and process 
improvements, from Facts+ and plate blurring to Mobility 
as a Service app Placie. I look forward to sharing with you 
the next generation of innovations in the coming years.
Sustainability is a journey, and we are at an early stage  
of ours. This report is another firm step on that journey. 
As we come to understand what is most material to 
carsales and important to our many stakeholders,  
we will refine our reporting, set stronger targets and  
report progress towards achieving them. By viewing our  
business through a sustainability lens and taking more 
action to mitigate our sustainability risks and realise our 
opportunities, we will become a more sustainable and,  
I believe, a better company.
I hope you enjoy reading this report.
Cameron McIntyre 
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer,  
carsales.com Limited
CEO’S STATEMENT
Our purpose is to make buying and selling a great experience
Welcome to our Sustainability Report for 2021. 
In a year in which businesses have had to continue to adapt to profound changes due to the rapid 
global spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, it is flexible and agile companies that have shown the greatest 
resilience. Our wonderful team of talented and passionate individuals at carsales have risen to the 
challenges we faced and done an outstanding job.
Who we answer to
Every customer, both the individual who buys or sells 
a car or truck or boat and the businesses we partner 
with to help this happen. They expect us to provide 
24/7 secure online access, give outstanding service 
and continually innovate to improve our platforms 
and customer experience. 
Every employee, who expects to be fairly paid and 
treated, kept safe at work and given opportunities  
to build and develop a satisfying career. 
Every community in which we operate, not only for 
providing local jobs and paying taxes but also for using 
our own, and our people’s time, skills and money to 
help solve some of society’s most intractable local  
and global problems. 
Every supplier, large and small, who expects to be 
treated fairly and paid on time and as agreed. 
Every investor, large and small, who expects us 
to provide a decent return on their investment and  
to operate successfully, ethically – and sustainably. 
Society, which gives us a license to operate –   
but only provided we fulfil our responsibilities.
5
carsales Sustainability Report 2021
CEO’S  
STATEMENT
Talented, 
skilled and 
passionate 
individuals
6
carsales Sustainability Report 2021Values
BehavioursEnablers
Sustainability 
ApproachDNABusiness
StrategyTo make buying and selling 
a great experience
• We change the game     
• We step in    
• We own it     
• We are curious     
• We don’t take ourselves 
too seriously• Being ethical and a good 
corporate citizen
• Building employee engagement 
and expertise
• Harnessing technology 
and innovation
• Focusing on the future• Our People
• Customers
• Community
• Innovation
• Governance
• Environment• Enjoyment 
• Respect 
• Integrity 
• Communication 
• Honesty• Grow our leadership in digital 
automotive classiﬁed solutions globally
• Build a compelling ecosystem of services 
that supports partners and consumers
• Leverage insights and trends to 
explore new opportunities in core 
and adjacent markets
• People      
• Data      
• Technology
• Innovation       
• Simplicity        
• Customer focusPurpose
Material 
TopicsWho we are, what we stand for and what 
matters most to our stakeholders drives 
our sustainability focus.
 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY7
carsales Sustainability Report 2021Values
BehavioursEnablers
Sustainability 
ApproachDNABusiness
StrategyTo make buying and selling 
a great experience
• We change the game     
• We step in    
• We own it     
• We are curious     
• We don’t take ourselves 
too seriously• Being ethical and a good 
corporate citizen
• Building employee engagement 
and expertise
• Harnessing technology 
and innovation
• Focusing on the future• Our People
• Customers
• Community
• Innovation
• Governance
• Environment• Enjoyment 
• Respect 
• Integrity 
• Communication 
• Honesty• Grow our leadership in digital 
automotive classiﬁed solutions globally
• Build a compelling ecosystem of services 
that supports partners and consumers
• Leverage insights and trends to 
explore new opportunities in core 
and adjacent markets
• People      
• Data      
• Technology
• Innovation       
• Simplicity        
• Customer focusPurpose
Material 
TopicsWho we are, what we stand for and what 
matters most to our stakeholders drives 
our sustainability focus.
 Material Topics
The sustainability issues most material to our business and stakeholders 
fall under our six reporting pillars as follows:
 
  
  Our People
Talent attraction, retention and turnover
Training and development
Culture and engagement
Diversity and non-discrimination
Gender pay equality
Parental leave
Health, safety, wellbeingCustomers
Customer experience
Trust and safety
Customer retention
System reliability
Data security
Data privacy
 Community
Community partnerships
Donations and sponsorships
Employee giving 
 Innovation
Innovation programs
Automation (including AI)
Intellectual property
Governance
Board structure and independence
Risk management
Key business risks
Culture of compliance
Ethical behaviour
Modern slavery
Approach to tax Environment
Energy management
Waste and e-waste
Inﬂuence on customers
SUSTAINABILITY  
STRATEGY
8
carsales Sustainability Report 2021ABOUT THIS REPORT
This Report has been prepared with reference to the 
Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Standards: Core option 
and to the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board 
(SASB) standard for the Internet Media and Services 
sub-industry. Our disclosures relate to the most material 
impacts to our business, plus some areas that are 
important to us and our stakeholders. This Report 
covers FY21 – 1 July 2020 to 30 June 2021. We have 
included a summary of our operational performance 
to emphasise the link between sustainability and our 
long-term business success.
This year’s scope 
We have revised the scope of our reporting from last  
year in a number of ways:
• Global reporting: carsales is now a truly global 
company, with around 25% of our FY21 revenue 
coming from overseas. While we do not yet have 
complete global metrics for all disclosures we are 
setting up data capture processes for our global 
offices for future reporting.
• New disclosure ‘pillars’: Last year we focused 
on the three ESG pillars of environment, social 
and governance. This year we have broken out 
our reporting into six ‘sustainability pillars’ of people, 
customer, community, innovation, governance and 
environment. We will consult with stakeholders and 
review our approach next year to determine if this 
level of disclosure is appropriate.
• Frameworks: For the first time we are reporting  
against two major global standards: GRI and SASB.  
This adds a significant degree of rigour to our reporting 
and means stakeholders can more easily see how we 
perform against other companies.
• Regulatory changes: As our business expands globally, 
and governments and regulators introduce and update 
laws and regulations, we face new reporting requirements. 
Among our recent reporting obligations are those 
imposed by the Australian Modern Slavery Act, 
under which we reported for the first time this year. 
• Data security: We have disclosed some of the issues 
around our management of data security risks, which 
are of critical importance to our business and customers. 
These disclosures hint at the scale of effort needed 
to safeguard our clients’ information.• Use of resources: Our environmental impacts 
are minimal, and we are yet to establish accurate 
baseline metrics for their impacts across the global 
carsales business. While our coverage for this year’s 
environmental reporting is limited, once baseline 
metrics are established across the global carsales 
business, future reports will include targets related  
to environmental impacts, such as carbon emissions.
• Supply chain and ethical conduct:  We want to  
ensure that our suppliers share our commitment to 
continuously improving sustainability performance,  
so we recently introduced a new Supplier Code of 
Conduct, which we expect all suppliers to adhere to 
(https://business.carsales.com.au/terms/supplier-code-
of-conduct/). The Code sets out expected standards 
and behaviours, including respect for human rights  
and the environment.
• Risk management and governance: We have included 
information on the way we identify and manage risks to 
our business.
Our stakeholders
Sustainability is about balancing the interests of all major 
stakeholders so the interests of one stakeholder group are 
not served at the expense of another’s. Different stakeholders 
have different agendas and focus areas, so it is important 
that we talk to them to gauge their key issues and concerns, 
find what is most important to them and in this way ensure 
our reporting is as balanced as possible. The information 
we gathered this year has assisted us in understanding 
what key audiences want, determining are our most 
material topics and preparing this sustainability report.
Our key stakeholder groups, why they are important  
to us and how we engage with them, are as follows:
• Customers.  Our customers are the reason we 
exist and their expectations regarding issues related 
to sustainability are hugely important to us. We get 
feedback from them directly, from our ‘Voice of the 
Customer’ teams, through comments on our platforms, 
and on our social media pages. 
• Employees. Our employees deliver our products 
and provide outstanding service to our clients, and they 
want to work for a company that stands for something 
more than just economic value. We have initiated a 
number of ways to find out what is important to our 
team members, including six-monthly global employee 
opinion surveys (EOSs), fortnightly carsales Catch Ups 
hosted by the CEO and the Executive Leadership Team 
(ELT), onboarding and exit surveys, and internal 
listening sessions.carsales is committed to continuously improving its sustainability performance and reporting 
transparently on its progress. In this year’s report, we explain how we have identified and manage  
our key sustainability issues and the critical risks to our business and stakeholders.9
carsales Sustainability Report 2021
ABOUT THIS 
REPORT• Investors. Institutional investors are taking ever greater 
interest in sustainability issues and their possible impact 
on future financial returns. Talking periodically with our 
largest investors and gauging the level of influence  
on them of leading global rating agencies and investor 
associations has allowed us to identify what issues are 
of the greatest significance to them.
• Senior leaders. Our executives are the people who 
manage our business day to day, hear feedback from  
all stakeholders and make the decisions that their 
teams need in order to move the business forward. 
They have each provided an overview of their area of 
expertise and identified issues that present the greatest 
risks, and also the greatest opportunities, for carsales, 
as well as where our company is going in the future.
• Dealers and manufacturers.  Dealers and 
manufacturers provide the majority of our revenue  
so how we address their concerns and issues is vital to 
maintaining these critical relationships. Our team have 
regular discussions with our major partners about areas 
of common interest and obtain clear information about 
a wide range of topics and areas of concern.
• Regulatory authorities.  Regulators and governments 
set the rules under which companies like carsales 
operate. As a transparent and open company, we 
engage regularly with tax authorities, federal and state 
government departments, local authorities and other 
regulatory bodies. 
• Communities. Local communities are where our  
team members live and where our offices are located. 
We seek to contribute to the solution of difficult 
social problems where we can by providing financial 
contributions, training, mentoring, skills and expert help.
Materiality
To gauge what we should report on, we identified:
• The issues and sustainability risks identified by 
our senior executives as most critical to carsales;
• The topics that investors and the rating agencies  
that influence them considered material to carsales;
• The issues identified by the Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board (SASB, a global reporting framework) 
as most relevant to the Internet Media and Services 
industry sub-sector;
• The 15 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) topics 
considered most important to carsales by senior 
leaders and investors. GRI is the most frequently 
used global reporting framework; and• In addition to GRI and SASB, other reporting that global 
investors want to see from companies they invest in. 
These include the UN Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs), the recommendations of the Task Force for 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), the 
UN Principles for Responsible investing (UN PRI), and 
Modern Slavery reporting, which is now mandatory 
under the Australian 2018 Modern Slavery Act and 
similar acts in other countries.
The process for defining the report’s content was based on 
following the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI’s) Reporting 
Principles. The Principles include stakeholder inclusiveness, 
sustainability context, materiality and completeness and 
carsales believes that this report conforms with these 
principles. Topic boundaries differ from topic to topic 
and are provided in the Content Index on page 41. 
No assurance was sought for this year’s sustainability 
report; we are considering whether we may utilise some 
limited assurance in future reports, but no decision 
has been made.
Ancillary information
The main markets served by carsales are Australia, 
South Korea, Mexico, Chile, Argentina, Brazil, where 
we offer automotive and non-automotive verticals, online 
classified and display advertising services. We also provide 
data and research services across Asia Pacific. The sectors 
we serve include car buyers and sellers, dealers (automotive 
and non-automotive), manufacturers and a range of 
other advertisers.
Rating agencies
During the year a number of rating agencies provided  
a rating on our exposure to ESG (environmental, social  
and governance) risks and how well they assess we are 
managing them. Two of them are as follows: 
• MSCI, a major global ratings provider, assessed carsales’ 
ESG risk management in July 2021 as deserving of a  
‘AA’ rating, up from ‘A’ in July 2020. This is the second 
highest rating out of seven, and carsales has improved 
by four ratings since June 2018.
• Sustainalytics, a global rating agency owned by 
Morningstar, gave carsales an ESG rating of 19.0 , 
classified as ‘Low’  risk, down from a previous 22.5  
rating (lower is better) and placing us in position 
6 out of 210 sub-industry peers.10
carsales Sustainability Report 2021OUR MATERIAL TOPICS
Our people 
are the 
key to our 
success
11
carsales Sustainability Report 2021
OUR MATERIAL 
TOPICSOUR PEOPLEOUR MATERIAL TOPICS
OUR PEOPLE
Talent attraction and retention
We are one of many companies looking for technical 
people, engineers, analysts, creatives, skilled operational 
leads, expert project managers and senior leaders.  
High demand across the industry and limited supply can 
make finding the right people difficult, particularly those 
in specialist roles. However carsales has a strong employer 
brand and we continue to attract highly talented 
individuals to work with us.
Over the past 12 months, and notwithstanding the 
difficulties COVID-19 has caused, we have been able to 
deliver on our goal to be a destination for talent. We have 
continued to attract people who are not only experts in 
their field but also embrace our culture. Some of our key 
focus areas globally for attracting talent include:
• Providing attractive and competitive pay packages, 
parental leave, seeking to eliminate unconscious bias 
from recruiting and strict policies relating to zero harm, 
sexual harassment, diversity and equal pay, opportunity 
and promotion;
• Aligning talent and attraction with our Diversity 
and Inclusion Strategy;
• Encouraging open discussion with applicants on  
work / life balance and encouraging flexible and  
part time options;
• Developing a pipeline of future talent and 
fostering community relationships through 
a number of initiatives, including supporting, 
sponsoring and attending Women in Tech events  
and our partnership with CS in Schools; and
• Our graduate and internship programs.
A key focus for carsales is recruiting technical experts. 
Deloitte and the Australian Computer Society estimate that 
there will be over 100,000 new IT jobs created in Australia 
by 2024. With only around 7,000 university-qualified  
IT graduates each year, Australia will need to be creative  
to fill that demand.
In early 2021 we welcomed our fourth cohort of 
Technology and Data graduates into the business.  
Our graduate program has gone from strength to 
strength, largely thanks to the support of many people 
within the business who are invested in the development 
of graduates as the future of carsales. We were pleased 
to see all our 2020 graduates take up permanent roles 
at the conclusion of their 18-month graduate program.Our vision is to be a destination for talent and an employer of choice, which we strive  
to achieve through our focus on inclusion, learning, leadership, performance and passion. 
The carsales People Promise
Six simple components summarise what our team 
members can expect from us:
12
carsales Sustainability Report 2021We are proud to have built an outstanding team of talented 
people. After so many years of operation, we know what we 
are good at and we make sure we have the right people  
in place to do the work needed. We also know where we 
need help so we do, on occasion, bring in consultants 
where specialised skills are needed.
One of our major sources of talent is referrals from  
our people, and we get high recommendation rates  
for new roles. People respond to a friend’s personal 
recommendation more positively than to conventional 
recruitment campaigns and can find out more about the 
job and the culture than through job ads. We ask  
our people to keep an eye on our careers page and 
recommend suitably qualified friends for jobs, and  
we offer bonuses for successful referrals.
We also source candidates through our own careers  
page and external recruitment websites such as  
LinkedIn and Seek.
Training and career development
At carsales We Are Curious – so learning and career 
development will always be a key focus areas for us. 
Our learning and development programs are focused on 
identifying personal development objectives for our people 
as well as meeting the current and future needs of the 
business. Some of our programs include:
• Our Essential Skills program focuses on the soft skills 
our people will need to succeed in their careers, 
including presentation skills, resilience and working  
to strengths. 
• Our Leadership Skills program is focused on providing 
tangible skills to our people leaders so they can best 
support their teams and the business.
• Our Expert Series program provides the opportunity for 
our people to knowledge share and learn from industry 
experts about their work at carsales. 
• Our mentoring and buddying programs further 
support employee skill development.
This year our training programs provided more than  
1,350 hours of combined learning and development 
across the business.
Continual development of our workforce is critical to our 
business strategy. Recent highlights include:
• An expanded virtual live learning experience, including 
the continuation of well-loved programs such as our 
mentoring and buddy programs, our Expert Series 
and internal webinars.
When Nikki Pecora joined as a grad, she was excited 
to work across our business and learn as much 
as she could. We are so happy that she found her 
passion in Product and now delivers exceptional 
products to our customers that make buying and 
selling a great experience. OUR MATERIAL TOPICS
OUR PEOPLE CONTINUED
• The introduction of a new development series 
called Leadership in a Virtual World, designed to support 
our people managers with strategies to manage and 
develop successful teams in the new world of work.  
The sessions focus on practical skills to help them 
motivate, manage mindset, and provide feedback  
and coaching during times of change.
• Continuing Spanish lessons to our Australian teams  
to enable better communication with our teams in  
Latin America.
• Making our annual hackathon virtual with  
227 team members around the world working on  
48 different projects across three days. The theme for 
our Virtual Hack was centred on how we can support 
our customers, partners and selves in the new virtual 
world. We are passionate about hackathons because 
they bring people together to collaborate with people 
outside their immediate teams to innovate, experiment 
with new ideas and learn. Even better, over half the 
ideas and concepts developed end up contributing  
to product innovation for our customers.13
carsales Sustainability Report 2021
OUR PEOPLE• Extending our mentoring and buddy programs, pairing 
two team members from anywhere in the world and 
encouraging them to meet virtually, learn about each 
other’s role, share knowledge and connect socially 
outside work. It encourages collaboration and builds  
a better understanding of our global business.
• Our annual CEO Scholarship. At the end of 
2020 we announced the recipients of our annual 
CEO Scholarship. The scholarship is open to all team 
members globally and provides a grant to undertake 
personal or professional development of their choosing. 
The four 2020 recipients, two from our Australian 
business and two from our business in Chile, will 
undertake a wide range of learning opportunities, 
including courses in English language, marketing 
and e-commerce and Certified Information 
Privacy Professional qualifications. The 2021 recipient 
will be announced later in the year from applications 
received from across the globe.
• External mentoring allows our people to share their 
knowledge with the community. It includes the CS in 
Schools program, in which members of our technology 
team teach coding in primary schools, and the Smith 
Family mentoring program.
• Supporting the next generation of leaders through  
our internships via the Monash IBL program.Any employee who is terminated due to redundancy 
is provided with the opportunity to engage with a 
Career Essentials program, focused on interview 
preparation and re-entry into the workforce.
As part of induction, we expect all employees to complete 
compliance training. They must read relevant policies and 
procedures covering topics such as discrimination, equal 
opportunity, harassment, bribery and corruption, privacy 
and data security and confirm they have done this. In 
addition, all employees must complete annual refresher 
compliance training. 
Culture
carsales’ success depends on the quality of its teams, and 
like many other companies we must compete to find, recruit 
and retain good people. One of our competitive advantages 
is our culture. We have worked hard over many years to 
build our culture, or ‘the way we do things here’, so our 
people know they are valued, feel challenged and supported 
to give their best every day, and empowered to provide 
exceptional service to our customers. We know that when 
people feel valued and engaged they perform at their  
best, so we constantly strive to improve on our 
working environment. 
We continually build on and reinforce our culture and 
working environment, so that we continue to attract, 
and keep, great people.
This past year, with all its challenges, has seen a shift in 
how we work and where we work from, but what is clear  
to us is that the carsales culture has never been stronger. 
As we navigated this period of change, we took the 
opportunity to reflect on what’s important to the carsales 
team, what defines us, and who we are in this new world of 
work. This reflection led us to the journey of creating a new 
set of company behaviours to underpin all that we do and 
set the benchmark to guide us into the future. 
These behaviours were developed and launched at the 
start of 2021 following extensive conversations with our 
global team. Their insights enabled us to hear how our 
people describe carsales today, what aspirations and  
traits they want to see more of in our teams, and what 
behaviours they saw in the people they looked up to and 
admired within the business. After summarising the 
feedback, it was clear that everyone wanted the same 
things. From there, our new behaviours were created.Some people stats we’re proud of:
• Over 1,350 hours of combined learning and 
development delivered across the business
• 356 team members attended 31 health and 
wellbeing activity sessions
• 149 managers completed workplace flexibility  
and gender equality training
• 202 team members completed Unconscious  
Bias training
• 118 mentors and mentees participated across  
two Mentor Program intakes – 42% female 
participation
• 604 team members attended 27 bespoke 
professional development workshops
• 129 new team members joined the carsales group
• 750 graduate program applications
• Our Virtual Hack: 48 projects, 227 participants14
carsales Sustainability Report 2021We have moved quickly to reinforce these behaviours 
across the company. They now underpin our recruitment process, they form part of our induction for new starters to help codify our culture, and we’ve changed our vernacular when we develop business cases, retrospectives and other business processes. Our leaders are facilitating a five-part series of workshops with their teams; each workshop deep dives into one of the five behaviours and focuses on a set of activities that give team members the tools to proactively incorporate these behaviours in their daily tasks and interactions. We’ve also reimagined our reward and recognition program to recognise those who live and breathe our behaviours in their day-to-day work.
We see these new behaviours as truly reflective of what 
makes the carsales culture so unique and special, and we look forward to our commitment to them helping to propel us forward to great future success.
This year has also seen the introduction of an additional 
suite of flexible leave options to support our people in balancing their work and life commitments. These include:
•
Increasing our primary caregivers leave from
16 to 18 weeks;
•Increasing our secondary caregivers leave fromtwo to four weeks;
•
Six weeks paid Gender Transition Leave – availableto anyone who is affirming, has affirmed or seekingto affirm their gender;
•
Public holiday swaps – allowing employees to swap agazetted public holiday for a day that has more culturalor 
religious significance to them based on their personal
beliefs; and
•The introduction of paid study leave and unpaidcareer breaks.We value feedback, and we obtain this from our people 
in a number of ways:
•
Annual global employee opinion surveys
 (EOS).
This is supplemented by an additional ‘pulse’ survey 
6-months after each EOS to track how we are progressingin the areas of focus identified in a previous EOS. These surveys are opportunities for us to build on our high-performance culture and re-establish goals and prioritiesto ensure that our people feel they are being heard andthat appropriate actions are taken to address issues.
•
Strategy roadshows. Our leaders touch base with all
carsales team members to discuss the business strategyand how each person’s role contributes to its success.
•
carsales Catch Ups. During COVID-19 we increased
our catch up frequency first to weekly and thenfortnightly, and made them 100% virtual. Each catchup is hosted by our CEO and other ELT members, andincludes business updates, weekly wins and live Q&A,with team members across the globe participating.
Turnover
Our turnover rate is healthy, reflecting the work we have 
done in recent years to make carsales a great place to work. We aim to ensure our people feel that their contributions
 
are appropriately valued and their career development is on track. We take nothing for granted – we talk regularly  
to our key talent to discover any concerns early. For some technical roles, there is a particular vulnerability to people being poached, reflecting the global shortages of these skills. Our voluntary turnover rate (i.e. the number of people choosing to leave carsales) for Australia during FY21 was 16% across all roles. We are comfortable with our current voluntary turnover figures because we believe that healthy turnover is important to ensure we are continuing to bring new ideas and fresh thinking in  
to add to our talented workforce.
Some highlights from external assessments during FY21 demonstrate carsales’ continuing strength as an employer of choice:
•
Certified as an Australian Great Place
to Work® for four consecutive years
•Six consecutive years as a Workplace GenderEquality Agency (WGEA) Employer of Choice
•
Accredited as a Breastfeeding FriendlyWorkplace since 2016
•
Member of the Welcome Here project since2018 – recognising carsales as a businessthat is inclusive and welcoming of theLGBTIQA+ communityOUR MATERIAL TOPICS
OUR PEOPLE CONTINUED
carsales’s behaviours
•We change the game
•We are curious
•We step in
•We own it
•We don’t take ourselves too seriously
15
carsales Sustainability Report 2021
OUR PEOPLEDiversity, equity and inclusion
carsales is committed to fostering a work environment 
where diversity, equity and inclusion is celebrated and our people feel valued, respected and a sense of belonging. The diverse characteristics of our team not only give us a wide range of perspectives and innovative ideas, but they more accurately represent our diverse customer base - which helps to drive our business success. We continue to drive our diversity, equity and inclusion agenda with the support of our Diversity Strategy. With automotive and technology being traditionally male dominated industries, our Diversity Strategy has a particular focus on promoting gender equality in our workforce. 
We have implemented a number of strategies to increase 
the number of women in senior roles and professions where women are traditionally under-represented. Initiatives include: 
•
using software to analyse our job advertisements
to ensure they appeal to a broad audience by havingneutral wording that doesn’t favour any particularattributes or characteristics (including gender);
•
advertising all of our available positions to give equalaccess to available roles;
•
ensuring a diverse group of carsales people areinvolved in all interview processes;
Nothing makes us happier than having some of  
the smiling faces of our Women In Tech group back together in the same room again. Our group is made up of women from all areas of carsales and offers not only a supportive peer network but plenty of learning opportunities to develop technical and soft skills.•maintaining gender quotas for recruitment shortlists;
•ensuring that our internal talent team and any externalagencies that we may engage are aware of our approachto diversity, equity and inclusion so that they can provideus with a balanced shortlist of candidates;
•
building the pipeline of talent into tech through primaryand secondary school engagement (see below); and
•
running unconscious bias training for hiring managers.
We are passionate about achieving gender diversity. We are thrilled to have reached our target of achieving 40% female representation at the Senior Leadership Team level this year, and to have retained our WGEA Employer  of Choice citation for another year. Our CEO, Cameron McIntyre, has continued to lead our efforts in this space  
by being a WGEA Pay Equity Ambassador and board member for Inclusive Australia.
In addition, we continue to be recognised as a 
Breastfeeding Friendly Workplace and a business that is inclusive and welcoming of the LGBTIQA+ community via the Welcome Here Project.
Our team continued to celebrate events such as 
International Women’s Day with journalist and proud Wiradjuri woman, Rae Johnston, a leading commentator  
on all things technology, science and pop culture, as our guest speaker. We also welcomed Nicholas Steepe from The Pinnacle Foundation as our guest speaker for International Day Against Homophobia, Biphobia, Interphobia and Transphobia.
carsales has a strong representation of females in tech 
roles and we are always looking to boost our team with talented individuals, which requires a pool of eligible people to choose from. For technical roles this poses  a problem. The pipeline of young people studying tech subjects is skewed towards males, with many females  not considering studying science, technology, engineering or mathematics (STEM) subjects at school or university. Finding enough female talent with the relevant skills is a key industry challenge and poses a risk to achieving our company diversity strategy.
In 2021, 33% of our new hires in Australia were female, 
however for technical roles, that proportion dropped to 19%. Despite the difficulties in finding female talent we  
are determined to increase this last proportion. 16
carsales Sustainability Report 2021To reduce the imbalance between males and females, we 
think differently. We use a number of methods to reinforce technology as a viable career path for women and carsales as a desirable place for them to work:
•
We seek to encourage young women into tech by
challenging their belief that it is not for them. We showthat it can be interesting and engrossing work and, withthe right employer, offers a satisfying and enrichingcareer. We send our people out into schools to talk tostudents, particularly female, describing the differenttypes of work we do, explaining what a typical day lookslike, talking about interesting projects and giving casestudies about employees who were once exactlywhere they are. Often the people presenting areonly a few years older than the audience, enhancingthe connection.•
We try to embed technical learning into futurecommunities by supporting team members tomentor students and teach coding in primary schools.We continue to support the Monash UniversityIT Faculty with many of our Tech team mentoringpostgraduate students and providing adviceand guidance around their capstone projects.
•
We are an active partner of CS in Schools where wevolunteer throughout the year at secondary schools tosupport teachers in teaching tech to future generations.CS in Schools’ mission is to create sustainable changein Australian digital technical education, and they dothis by providing a complete DigiTech pathway forsecondary students and developing teacher confidencein relation to delivering digital technology classes.
•
We sponsor events such as Go Girl, Go For IT, whichwe have been involved with for the past three years.
•
We have sponsored two female students to undertakea degree in Computer Science and InformationTechnology at Swinburne University through ourcarsales Foundation Women in IT scholarship.
•
We will take people on in one role and activelysupport them if they want to specialise in somethingdifferent, particularly a role that is technical orrequires further study.
•
We foster a working culture that values all gendersequally, so every employee knows that negative,harassing or discriminatory behaviour is totallyunacceptable. We are proud of our inclusive workingenvironment, and the fact that we have beenrecognised as a WGEA Employer of Choice forGender Equality for six consecutive years.
We have a number of business objectives focused on gender equality highlighting our goal to retain and grow our top female talent from junior management up to senior management positions. We provide detailed information on our gender equality indicators to WGEA each year, and the report is available in the Investor  Centre on the Company website.Women in Tech
Despite the challenges that 2020/21 presented, the 
Women In Tech group continued to connect and learn throughout the year. We started this by getting together for virtual lunch and learn sessions with members of our Executive Leadership Team who shared their career journeys and leadership insights. The ability to connect virtually throughout the year meant we were able to spend more time getting to know the members of our international Women In Tech group in Latin America. 
2020 also gave us the opportunity to participate 
in the virtual Go Girl, Go For IT  event. Over 800 
girls registered from around Australia and logged in from home or school to enjoy a full day of speakers and workshops. Our team put together two presentations, ‘A Day in Tech’ and ‘What is an API’ and enjoyed the opportunity to interact with students of all ages and share their passion for tech. 
In 2021 we have regrouped (in person) and 
refocused our efforts. We started the year with a ‘Deep Dive into Data’ at carsales which was presented by group members working in this space. We moved onto learning more about our SEO and Search strategy. These sessions gave our group members the opportunity to grow their presentation skills in a safe space. The highlight of 2021 so far has been finally being able to get together for an in-person networking event and socialising over lunch.
Looking ahead we have a full program of work 
involving mentoring, lunch and learn sessions and presenting at the 2021 Go Girl, Go For IT event.OUR MATERIAL TOPICS
OUR PEOPLE CONTINUED
We were honoured to see that our efforts to support the cause of encouraging more women to pursue a career in technology was recognised in the 2020 Women Leading Tech awards, where we were a finalist in the Advocacy category.17
carsales Sustainability Report 2021
OUR PEOPLEGender pay equality
As part of our commitment to achieving gender equality, 
our CEO is a WGEA Pay Equity ambassador. It is important 
to us that all of our team members feel valued for the  
work they do. A key part of this is ensuring we achieve 
gender pay parity for like roles. We review this throughout 
the year within our remuneration review process, with a 
target of ensuring that our people are within the market 
pay range for each individual role and ensuring our 
application of remuneration across the board is fair, 
regardless of gender. 
In our FY21 review of our Australian business,  
we did not identify any like for like gender pay 
gaps, and this continues to be our target.
When we look at our remuneration spread from an 
aggregate level, we have identified an opportunity in 
building further female representation at all levels 
which is a key focus within our diversity strategy.
Parental leave
As mentioned on page 14, we offer all eligible employees 
paid parental leave, consisting of 18 weeks for primary 
caregivers and four weeks for secondary caregivers. 
A further five days of ‘leave up your sleeve’ is available to 
primary caregivers upon their return to work, to enable them 
to take some additional paid days off to adjust to balancing 
work and home commitments. Details of the number of 
team members taking up parental leave are on page 39.
Anti-discrimination
As part of our commitment to diversity, equity and 
inclusion, we do not tolerate discrimination of any sort. 
Our EEO, Discrimination, Harassment and Workplace 
Violence Policy sets out our standards of behaviour for 
how team members should behave towards each other 
and anyone else they deal with at work, and there are 
significant consequences for people who breach these 
standards. People feeling they have been discriminated 
against can lodge a complaint and it will be investigated 
thoroughly. Breaches can lead to sanctions up to and 
including dismissal. Anyone who reports discriminatory 
or any other illegal or unethical conduct is protected  
under our Global Whistleblower Policy. 
Health, safety and wellbeing
We are committed to workplace health and safety, which 
we manage through the carsales Work Health and Safety 
(WHS) management system. This comprises policies, 
procedures and resources designed to foster health, 
safety and wellbeing at work. It identifies workplace risks 
and hazards and implements appropriate measures to 
control them, incorporating best practice workplace 
occupational health and safety standards and taking into 
account state and federal obligations and guidelines.The Workplace Health & Safety Policy applies to all 
employees of carsales and anyone else present in 
a carsales or subsidiary workplace under the control 
of carsales. Team members must report all accidents, 
incidents, work-related illness and near misses through 
our Incident Reporting Procedure, to the People and 
Culture Team or a WHS Representative. We investigate 
every incident to determine the cause, prevent a 
recurrence, obtain accurate statistics and meet  
legislative reporting requirements.
We operate an open and transparent culture in which any 
employee can raise a concern and / or remove themselves 
from a dangerous situation with the full support of their 
manager and the People and Culture Team. We conduct 
regular risk assessments to identify risks, assess them 
using our risk rating matrix, introduce suitable controls 
and monitor continuously. Where assessments identify 
hazards or risks specific to individual roles, special training 
is provided to those people on how to manage this.
Any team member who reports an incident is protected 
from victimisation and harassment as per our EEO, 
Discrimination, Harassment and Workplace Violence  
Policy and our Global Whistleblower Policies. 
We run a health and wellbeing program that incorporates 
a range of activities and initiatives which are designed to 
support our employees’ physical, mental, emotional and 
financial wellbeing. In Australia the program includes 
activities such as fitness classes, seminars and  
educational programs. 
We faced further challenges during FY21 as COVID-19 
continued to spread and lockdowns of varying lengths 
were re-imposed. Although some of our people returned 
to our offices in limited capacity over the year, many of our 
teams around the world have continued to work remotely. 
Our focus has remained on maintaining a feeling of 
global connectedness during a time when many have felt 
isolated, and on protecting our team members’ mental 
health. Managers check in with their teams often, many 
on a daily basis. The carsales Catch Ups over Zoom keeps 
our people up to date on the business and enables them 
to ask the CEO and ELT members questions directly. 
Our leaders and team members are all dealing with the 
same challenges, from juggling work and home schooling 
to working in a noisy household or dealing with social 
isolation. We have been open and honest about these 
challenges to encourage open communication.
As team members were required to work from home in 
various locations due to local lock downs, our People & 
Culture team also focused on their physical environment.  
We made every effort to ensure that all employees had the 
equipment they needed to work safely in their homes to 
avoid workplace injuries. 18
carsales Sustainability Report 2021When office work resumed, we instituted social distancing 
measures, and provided hand sanitiser and masks to all 
employees. Our employee assistance program continued 
to be available globally; during COVID- 19 this has been an 
important resource for all our teams. We have promoted 
webinars, fact sheets and resources in local languages to 
help all our people support their mental health during 
this challenging time.
Our CEO and ELT hosted our global team over 
38 Catch Ups updates this year and show no 
signs of slowing down.
We knew that our people were missing their usual informal 
office connections, and realised that new starters were at 
risk of missing these key introductory opportunities in their 
first few months at carsales. To combat this we introduced 
a Slack bot called ‘Donut’ which randomly pairs people who 
opt in from across the business for a virtual coffee catch up. 
Donut has helped us all to meet new people, learn more 
about what they do and make connections with people we 
wouldn’t necessarily get to interact with regularly – including 
team members based at international offices. 
We moved all elements of our Health and Wellbeing 
program into a virtual environment – including HIIT and 
yoga classes over Zoom. We incorporated additional 
seminars centred around mindset and mastering emotions OUR MATERIAL TOPICS
OUR PEOPLE CONTINUED
to help our people navigate through this challenging 
time with increased ease.
Supporting our extensive network of carsales 
parents – many of whom have had to juggle work 
commitments, homeschooling, and reduced access 
to childcare and / or family support for extended 
periods – was another high priority. We gave them 
additional flexibility and organised KidsCo to run two  
virtual school holiday programs providing much-needed 
relief to parents. These usually run in Melbourne only, 
however this virtual solution allowed us to open the 
program up to children of parents working in all our  
offices around Australia.
In July 2020 we treated all team members to a $250 gift 
voucher and an additional day off work to take a break and 
switch off – a small gesture of our thanks and appreciation 
to everyone during what had been a tumultuous year.
Our COVID-19 focused pulse survey showed that 
95% of our people had confidence in carsales’ 
response to the pandemic and 92% of our team 
felt supported by the business. This reinforced to 
us that we had the team’s trust during this time 
of significant change. 19
carsales Sustainability Report 2021
OUR PEOPLE CUSTOMERSCUSTOMERS
Seller services we provide include:
•Flexible options for selling, including our Instant Offer
product which provides users with a convenient andhassle-free way to sell their car to our dealer network.Sellers are guaranteed next day payment, rather thanhaving to wait for the car to be sold ‘in due course’.In exchange for this convenience they accept slightlyless than the full retail price;
•
Weekly ad stats email to show sellers how theirad is performing;
•
Enhanced security features, such as our proprietary frauddetection tool to help combat fraudulent activity andphone number security with our Privacy Protect feature;
•
Safe selling tips and advice provided by email and onour website; and
•
Seven day support from our local Customer Serviceteam to help sellers optimise their ad to get the salethey want.OUR MATERIAL TOPICS
Key to being the leading platform in our markets globally is our deep understanding 
of our customers and their needs. 
Customer experience 
Ensuring that our customer experience matches or 
exceeds our brand promise and that we live up to our reputation is a key focus of our company. 
We continuously seek to increase our understanding 
of our customers and their needs, using a range of techniques:
•
We measure our Net Promoter Score (NPS) at a brand
level and at a transactional level for customers whohave had experiences with various products so we cancontinue to improve our experience. Our score is oftentwo, three or four times that of our nearest competitor.
•
We use a feedback loop from customers to understandhow they see us. Our ‘Voice of the Customer’ teamanalyses feedback for key themes to inform experienceimprovements via technological and operationalenhancements.
•
We track consumer sentiment towards dealers, giventheir key role in the sales process.
As part of our core offering, we provide car buyers and sellers with a range of unique services to help them trade with ease and confidence. 
Dealer NPS
Jun0%10%20%30%40%50%60%70%80%
Jul Aug Sep
2020 2021Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Juncarsales Post Enquiry Survey, Dealer NPS, June 2020 – June 2021. n= avg 6,000/mth20
carsales Sustainability Report 2021Supporting our commercial customers and industry
carsales is a major part of the automotive industry 
eco-system and we continuously seek ways to support the industry. The key players and their role in the  eco-system are:
•
Dealers. Provide the majority of our revenue, so it is
critical we get the right balance between the needs ofend buyers and dealers. We have a team of dedicatedaccount managers and carry out dealer sentimentsurveys to ensure we satisfy their needs in arapidly
-
evolving market.
•Finance houses. Includes banks and specialist providerssuch as fleet financiers. Provide buyer finance, oftenthrough dealers, and provide a significant proportionof carsales’ display ad income.
•
Other sellers e.g. after-market product sellers. Alsoheavy buyers of display ads, often with considerableneed for personalisation to relatively small groupsof buyers.
•
Manufacturers and the display agencies who supportthem. This group is of enormous importance to carsalesand we have a specialised team to support them.
•
Other channels, such as Facebook, Google andSalesforce. We nurture our relationships with thesecompanies, who in some ways are partners and inothers, competitors.CUSTOMERS CONTINUEDOUR MATERIAL TOPICS
Buyer benefits include:
•Saved car and search alerts which allow buyers to
keep track of vehicles they are interested in, includingkey updates such as price drops and notificationswhen demand is high from other prospective buyers;
•
Facts+ which helps decision making by providingcomprehensive buyer insights on the selected vehicle,including car history such as whether it has beenstolen or written off, market pricing data, expertand owner reviews;
•
RedBook Inspect (RBI), a paid inspection servicefor used cars, through which qualified mechanicsinspect vehicles for sale, and report back to theprospective buyer; and
•
A library of over 40,000 articles of automotivereviews, used car buyer guides, advice and news.
Key to our service to our customers is ensuring that our websites have the buyers and sellers they need to fulfill their transaction. This requires us to ensure that people are aware of our brand, and actively choose our business when thinking of buying or selling a vehicle. For this reason, we track our a range of brand health metrics. Prompted brand awareness for carsales in the community is 80-90%, and the preference for carsales is 38%. For our competitors, their results are one-third to one quarter of 
our figures. 
carsales brand performance
carsales Rolling 3M Average carsales Manufacturers Dealership Gumtree Car Yard
Manufacturers Websites Carsguide Autotrader Facebook Marketplace CarAdviceeBay
Drive0%5%10%15%20%25%30%35%40%45%50%
Jun ‘20 Jul ‘20 Aug ‘20 Sep ‘20 Oct ‘20 Nov ‘20 Dec ‘20 Jan ‘21 Feb ‘21 Mar ‘21 Apr ‘21 May ‘21 Jun ‘21
Nature Research, Brand Health tracker, June 2020 – June 2021. n=267/mth21
carsales Sustainability Report 2021
CUSTOMERSWe seek to strike a balance between the needs of the 
different players in the industry – we have always been a disrupter but we are also part of the eco-system and it is in no-one’s interest to damage the industry or the dealers on whom we depend. We review all new services, features, add-ons or enhancements before we roll them out, with great care and through multiple lenses, to ensure we understand where the benefit lies – with buyers, sellers, the industry or carsales. The ones most likely to go ahead are those that benefit everyone.
As a key player in a complex, ever-shifting network of 
companies of different sizes and with widely-different agendas, we are careful to do everything we can to preserve and build these relationships. We make certain we understand the implications of our actions to the consumer, dealer, manufacturer or any other player. In this way we avoid creating conflict between the needs of different groups.
As an example, when we introduced Facts+ we were  
aware that it provided extra information about a vehicle’s history and price, information that had previously only been available to dealers. We involved many internal departments and worked with dealers to communicate the benefits – that giving buyers more information would increase the level of trust and engagement. In this way we were able to allay any fears that dealers may have had about the new product.
Reputation – “Is Trustworthy”
carsales Gumtree CarsguideJun ‘200%10%20%30%40%50%60%70%80%
Jul ‘20 Aug ‘20 Sep ‘20 Oct ‘20 Nov ‘20 Dec ‘20 Jan ‘21 Feb ‘21 Mar ‘21 Apr ‘21 May ‘21 Jun ‘21Trust and safety
Trust and safety are key issues for customers, so we do 
everything we can to build customers’ trust in carsales - by keeping their data secure, respecting their privacy  
and providing valuable add-ons. Three of the ways we   
keep customers safe include:
•
Routinely blurring number plates in ads to limit the risk
of plate cloning;
•Using AI to look for scams in used car sales; and
•Preventing system intrusions with multiple layersof defence so data is kept secure.
Our efforts in this area are well received by customers. We regularly survey consumers to determine key brand association metrics. carsales has maintained its strong position in these metrics, including ‘is a market leader for buying and selling cars’ and ‘is trustworthy’. When compared to our competitors, carsales continues to be the market leader as a trusted marketplace to buy and sell. 
A vital, and key part of the purchase process for both 
buyers and sellers is detailed research. With our vast experience derived from facilitating the sale of millions  of cars a year, we are able to make a major contribution to the amount, accuracy and relevance of information needed to complete a sale. A fundamental requirement  for reinforcing our customers’ trust in us is that the information we provide is accurate and up to date.
Nature Research, Brand Health tracker, June 2020 – June 2021.  Reputation: “Is Trustworthy” (% rated 7-10)  n= avg 250/mth22
carsales Sustainability Report 2021CUSTOMERS CONTINUEDOUR MATERIAL TOPICS
of our broader strategic partnership with Viva Energy; 
This has been a key driver of ongoing usage of our carsales app;
•
Vehicle insights – carsales members receive emailedprice depreciation updates every three to six monthsproviding the estimated resale value of their car, currentdemand in market and expected time to sell; and
•
Partner offers – carsales members receive ongoingdiscounts on key automotive services such as tyres,insurance and finance to support their ownership journey.
System reliability
A key component of the customer trust we seek to 
build comes from having reliable systems. Our platforms must be accessible to everyone that wants to view them or transact business, 24/7, 365 days a year and we proudly maintain an uptime of 99.99% across our sites.  
To protect us and our customers from major disruption, we have put in place a detailed Business Continuity Plan and a Disaster Recovery Plan, which are both reviewed and tested regularly.
Our Business Continuity management approach defines,  
in detail, the critical systems, processes, people, schedules, 
actions, protocols and contact details for each type of major incident. Alternative work locations are available 24/7 and can be rapidly deployed should a major outage occur. The impact of any one incident depends on the systems or infrastructure affected, however we have tried and tested technical teams, with many years experience, managing these situations and can generally resume operations, even where alternative locations must be activated, within the shortest possible time.
Data security
We take data security very seriously and see it as one of
 
carsales’ most material business risks. We have more than 
eight million member accounts, and we work unrelentingly to ensure that data is accurate, secure and used appropriately. 
We are highly conscious that our customers allow us to 
use their data to help them buy or sell, and that their permission can be withdrawn at any time. We act at all times as data custodians, and approach collection, storage and utilisation through a custodian lens – data is not our right to use how we want but is collected only as needed for specific purposes. Keeping it secure is therefore a fundamental obligation for carsales.
While we do not disclose the techniques and defences we 
use to maintain the security of our systems, some of the broad approaches we use include:The online content we provide is a huge component of buyer research. Our independent content team comprise subject matter experts across key verticals. The team is dedicated to providing useful, concise. accurate and independent information. Our content includes:
•
Vehicle reviews for almost every type or model
of vehicle, motorbike, truck or boat;
•Price and other comparisons (including real-worldtesting) between vehicles;
•
Papers on current automotive trends. EVs, hybrids,battery and charging technology are key areas ofinterest hence we have upweighted out researchand coverage;
•
Thought leadership on the auto and online industriesand issues relevant to them;
•
Ancillary related articles on issues like used car parts,fleet buying and after-market products; and
•
‘Pure’ research carried out as part of our ongoinginnovation activity, on local and global topics, exploringconsumer sentiment around mobility, fuels,sustainability, demographic changes and so on.
We have over 8,500 review and advice articles live and searchable on carsales alone. Similar independent content is published to our other verticals. Significant effort is made to ensure articles are easily accessed from our websites and also via mainstream search engines.
It also a tenet of carsales content to clearly label any 
material that is advertising based. This is to ensure consumers are easily able to distinguish between independent and commercial content
Customer retention
To drive long-term retention outside of the buy/sell cycle, 
we offer a range of member benefits to keep car owners engaged when they are not in market. These benefits aim to increase loyalty and keep our brand top of mind during the period before they make their next purchase. 
Through our customer sentiment program and ongoing 
research, we continue to identify new ways to engage  and retain customers long-term, drive return use of our platform, improve retention and help build a customer’s lifetime value. 
Below are some of the key member benefits that run 
as part of this program: 
•
Fuel discounts – carsales members have access to
all-year fuel discounts from Shell Coles Express as part23
carsales Sustainability Report 2021
CUSTOMERS•Using long random GUIDs that avoid incremental
numbering;
•Doing penetration testing both internally and usingexternal experts;
•
Using our own proprietary systems, developedin
-house, thereby avoiding any weaknesses in third
party provider software;
•Using a defence in depth strategy in which data isstored behind multiple layers of defence; and
•
Conforming to the internationally recognised NISTCybersecurity Framework.
Data privacy
While data security focusses on protection against external 
attack through systems and software, data privacy requires the correct handling of personal information by our team m
embers. Privacy issues can arise at any stage of our data 
management, from collection, storage, use, release and ultimate removal of data, so we have a strict data governance framework, including permissions, handling, management, communications, security, compliance and monitoring. 
Our data governance processes require that we:•
get members’ permissions before capturing data;
•restrict access to data to people who need to use it;
•safeguard all information and handle it carefully;
•ensure data is only communicated according to
our data governance requirements;
•regularly maintain and upgrade our systems;
•provide regular training and refresher trainingon data privacy to our employees;
•
monitor staff compliance with privacy andinformation security policies, procedures, standardsand guidelines;
•
strictly control and monitor how our team membersand supplier organisations use member data; and
•
only retain data where we have a legal right to do so.
A significant issue for carsales is to ensure that members are giving proper consent to use of their data. In the  past, members provided data to us and, when it came to receiving information from us, had only two choices   
– receive everything or unsubscribe and receive nothing.Customers are more varied in their needs and weconstantly adapt our systems to increase the granularity of consent they can choose. This allows them to opt, for example, to receive product recalls and emergency updates, but not other sales material. carsales members can manage these consents easily online.
Another associated issue is the use of cookies, which 
unlock a computer’s memory and allow websites to recognise users when they return to the site and tailor  the content or services displayed. The European Union’s (EU’s) General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) sets guidelines for collecting and processing personal information from individuals in or from the EU.  While only a tiny proportion of carsales’ website traffic is from the EU in response to the GDPR, carsales developed a new cookie policy (https://www.carsales.com.au/info/cookie-policy/) and has introduced cookie pop-ups to better inform visitors how we use cookies. If a visitor is from an EU IP address, express consent is required  before the visitor can use the website. 
We gather cookie-based data concerning onsite behaviour
 
such as items that a visitor clicks on or views. This data is 
used to improve the onsite experience by way of tailored content and is similarly used off the network by carsales to serve relevant content via social media and digital display. carsales’ member database is not provided to third parties for direct marketing purposes. 
We also have an advertising program based on user onsite 
behaviour. Visitor data is de-identified and the program allows a third party outside carsales, such as a vehicle manufacturer, to serve relevant advertisements both on the carsales network and on the wider internet, based on the onsite browsing activity of the user. This data is aggregated into audience segments and not personally identifiable by the advertiser.24
carsales Sustainability Report 2021As a major global digital business, carsales facilitates  
the sale of millions of vehicles a year to people living in communities all over the world. We support our local communities in a number of ways:
•
Corporate giving and sponsorships;
•Employee donations through volunteering days;
•Fund-raising activities;
•Ensuring we always pay our small, often local suppliers
within 30 days; and
•Providing jobs and employee pay for local people in thecountries where we have offices and paying taxes thatare used to pay for services benefitting the community.
Community partnerships
CS in SchoolsThis year we were thrilled to partner once again with CS  
in Schools, whose mission is to create sustainable change in Australian digital technical education by providing a complete DigiTech pathway for secondary students  and developing teacher confidence to deliver digital technology classes. 
In FY21 our people contributed over 300 hours of volunteering for the CS in Schools program.
Having partnered with CS in Schools last year to develop a pipeline of students with coding skills, the next opportunity for us was to provide students with a real-world problem to solve. We provided a data set to students and asked them to build a pricing model. Students spent the first half of the year working with this real-life industry challenge and they are preparing for the chance to come and present their projects to our teams for feedback.
Women in Tech
As part of our drive to increase the number of young 
women taking up IT careers, we further developed our Women in Tech program during FY21. Our activities included:
•
Being a sponsor of the virtual Go Girl 2020 which aims
to inspire students with fantastic role model speakers,showcasing technology of the future and challengingmisconceptions about what a career in IT mightlook like;Highlights in the Community
COVID-19 has not stopped us from being active  
within the community:
•The carsales Foundation provided grants to
charities nominated by our team members – including Movember, Whitelion Youth Agency,Rizeup, MS Australia and Act for Peace.
•
We donated laptops to CoderDojo WA – a volunteer led, community-based computerprogramming club that teaches digital literacyskills to young Australians.
•
Our partnership with The Smith Family saw ussponsor seven school children around Australiathrough the Learning for Life program and our staff
 
donated $3,890 to their 2020 Christmas Appeal.
•We continued to support the Monash UniversityIT Faculty with many of our Tech team mentoringtheir postgraduate students and providing adviceand guidance around their capstone projects.
•
We partnered with not-for-profit CareerSeekersto provide internship opportunities to refugeesand people seeking asylum, allowing them todevelop technical and software developmentskills, and soft skills.COMMUNITYOUR MATERIAL TOPICS
•A continued focus on developing technical and softskills through a series of lunch and learn sessions.These sessions also provided an opportunity for ourgroup to connect and network during periods ofremote work; and
•
Supporting the Women In IT program at MonashUniversity by participating in speaking and mentoringopportunities.
Donations and sponsorships
Our community efforts are powered by the carsales 
Foundation, our independent, registered charity that we created to formalise our community programs. Its vision is simple: ‘To positively impact our community by promoting inclusion and supporting equal access to education.’  The Foundation’s four core pillars are clearly defined  
for how we can make a real impact. They are:25
carsales Sustainability Report 2021
COMMUNITY• Community grants: anyone in our business can 
nominate a charity they are passionate about to  
receive a donation of up to $500;
• University education: the Foundation supports a 
female to study technology at Swinburne University 
through a Women in Tech scholarship;
• Prevention of family and domestic violence: 
donating to shelters and family support networks; and
• Primary and secondary school education:  providing 
support to primary and secondary school children 
suffering from hardship through the Smith Family.Employee giving
We provide each of our employees with a Community  
Day so they can take a paid day off work to contribute  
their time to a cause they care about. We encourage team 
members to volunteer in a group with their colleagues  
and use the opportunity to introduce their colleagues  
to a cause important to them.
26
carsales Sustainability Report 2021carsales specialises in developing cutting-edge technology 
and advertising solutions that enhance the consumer experience. As a major global business platform, we live  or die by the quality of the systems our customers use to transact, and the services we provide to help them, both personal and behind the scenes. 
Innovation programs
Innovation is part of our DNA and we have always invested 
time and money in continuously innovating to be the clear leader in our industry. Our Board and ELT regularly discuss innovation and we continuously promote it to the global carsales team, asking them to focus not only on technology but on all areas of our business.
We make innovation happen in a number of ways:•
We look for day to day enhancements to existing
systems and operations to improve the customerexperience, make us more efficient or save money;
•
We seek out and develop new products / servicesand add-ons;
•
Our ‘Voice of the Customer’ team work with customerservices, capturing information from customers andfeeding 
it back for the tech teams to seek improvements
to solve problems; and
•We use hackathons to bring together people fromacross the company and across the world, so they canc
ollaborate to improve an existing product, develop a
new idea or create something to support other teams.
Product innovation is a key part of how we deliver value  to our customers and each year we continue to invest in improvements to the buying and selling experience,  adding new features such as:
•
Price indicators, designed to help buyers easily identify
vehicles priced at or below market;
•‘My Feed’, which delivers personalised content basedon prior searches of vehicles that may of be of interest,including relevant reviews and advice;
•
An average of 300 articles per month that we produceon latest released vehicles including independentcomparison tests, helpful advice and news on theauto industry; and
•
Customer Day, where we invite a group of customers tospeak directly with our product and technology teamsto foster customer-first thinking in our product design.
Innovations that become significant projects are facilitated via the Project Management Office (PMO) and we use cross disciplinary teams to ensure all aspects are considered. There are four or five programs in development at any one time. Small projects (under $20k) are run by the inventor’s manager. Medium sized projects ($20k-$300k) are subject to executive control. Large projects (over $300k) are considered by ELT. There is always an executive sponsor who ensures all sign offs are received.
Some of our most recent innovations have been:•
Placie, a MaaS (Mobility as a Service) transport app
incubated over the past three years and launched inbeta in October 2020. It enables consumers to plan andbook trips combining several modes of transport usingdata provided in real time. The launch required us tolobby state governments to provide exemptions forlaws not designed with MaaS in mind.
•
Plate blurring. An innovation that came from our 2018hackathon, which involves blurring number plates inads to limit the risk of plate cloning.
•
Facts+. An added-value service that shows priceindicators, previous vehicle history, accidents, write-offsetc. It redresses the information imbalance betweendealers and consumers, and we worked closely withdealers and other partners to bring this to market.
We are proud of our record of innovation and are focused on our commitment to developing and bringing to market new products and enhancements. 
We were thrilled to partner with Hackmakers  
to support the #WorldInnovationDay Hack 2021 – encouraging people to creatively use their skills  
in generating new ideas and solutions for the  
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals  
of health & wellbeing, economic growth, decent  
work and quality education.
Our CIO Jason Blackman, one of the global judges, 
said: “Technological innovation plays an important  
part in driving sustainable positive change for all in our world, and I’m excited to see new ideas and creative solutions for the challenge categories.” INNOVATIONOUR MATERIAL TOPICS27
carsales Sustainability Report 2021
INNOVATIONAutomation (including AI)
As an online selling and advertising platform, automating 
processes to make them faster, more reliable and more 
efficient is key to what we do. We constantly seek ways 
to automate and simplify processes to continue to 
enhance the customer experience and make carsales 
easier to deal with.
Machine learning and artificial intelligence (AI) are 
significant technologies that we will continue to utilise to 
deliver benefits to our customers. Our constant innovation 
and skilful use of automation has resulted in carsales 
leading the industry in user experience, products and 
services, operational efficiency and business model.
Our investment in data science and insights also means  
we can deliver more and more insightful data to our 
customers. In turn this builds stronger relationships with 
manufacturers and dealers and gives consumers better 
and more personalised experiences.
Intellectual property
carsales actively manages its intellectual property,  
using both in-house and external specialist resources.  
The company has a range of registered trade marks in 
Australia and in overseas jurisdictions, and has also 
pursued patent protection for novel inventions by  
its employees. 
As a world leader in the industry, there are many 
businesses that try to trade off carsales’ excellent 
reputation. carsales is extremely protective of its 
reputation, which it has established over 25 years of 
trusted service, and does not intend to allow others to 
diminish that through their actions. Accordingly, the 
company has an ‘always on’ mentality in protecting its 
intellectual property – whether it be brands that are too 
close to one of the company’s trade marks or a site 
reproducing carsales’ copyright material without 
authorisation, the company does not ignore others 
breaching its intellectual property rights or creating 
confusion in the market. 28
carsales Sustainability Report 2021We have put in place a detailed governance and 
management framework to help us manage our 
reputational and financial risks. Under the legal and 
regulatory framework within which we operate, which 
includes the ASX Corporate Governance Principles and 
the ASX Listing Rules, we must address these risks  
and report annually on our progress.
This section of the Sustainability Report covers the areas 
of governance that represent the biggest sustainability 
risks to the Company. It does not seek to duplicate the 
Corporate Governance Statement, which you should  
refer to for a more complete description of our 
governance framework. Our Corporate Governance 
Statement is available on our shareholder website at 
https://shareholder.carsales.com.au/governance/.
Board structure and independence
The Board is ultimately accountable for implementing and 
overseeing an effective corporate governance framework, 
but the executive leadership team and all carsales team 
members are responsible for upho lding our high corporate 
governance standards, underpinned by our core values of 
Enjoyment, Respect, Integrity, Communication and 
Honesty. These carry through into our corporate policies, 
which include our Code of Conduct , as well as our 
behaviours.
The Board seeks to ensure that carsales is properly 
manag ed and that all of our people operate in an 
appropriate manner. The Board has adopted a framewo rk 
for managing the company that includes internal controls, 
risk management processes and corporate governance 
policies designed to promote responsible management  
and conduct.
Three Board committees provide specialist oversight and 
assist the Board: an Audit Committee, a People & Culture 
Committee (formerly the Remuneration and Nomination 
Committee) and a Risk Management Committee.  
Each operates under a formal charter that is publicly 
available in the Investor Centre of the Company website. 
The Risk Management Committee (RMC) is responsible  
for sustainability issues.
Risk management
carsales’ Board is responsible for ensuring that there 
is an appropriate corporate governance framework in 
place to protect and enhance our performance and build 
sustainable value for our shareholders. The Board Charter 
states that it is the responsibility of the Board to ‘ensure 
that the significant risks facing the Company have been 
identi fied and that adequate control, monitoring and 
reporting mechanisms are in place’.The RMC assists the Board in carrying out its risk 
management responsibilities. The RMC approaches its risk oversight based on the Company’s level of ownership of operations locally and offshore. Each of the Board Charter, the RMC Charter and the Company’s Risk Management Policy are publicly available on our shareholder website at https://shareholder.carsales.com.au/charters/. 
We recognise that managing risk is a continual process 
and an integral part of the management of the business. During FY20 the Company established a new risk management committee comprising ELT and senior operational management to assist the RMC in tracking and escalating risks. As part of this process, the risk register underwent a thorough review and redesign.  Each risk now has an ELT member and a senior manager assigned as its owners. The risk owners are tasked with monitoring the risks by reference to agreed metrics and reporting on any movement to the RMC. This is discussed in further detail below.
Identifying material risks
carsales conducts a review and update of its formal risk 
register at least twice a year. This captures material and other potential risks to the business and assesses the nature, likelihood and materiality of the impact of each risk.  carsales uses the results of the assessment to inform its risk management strategy. We continue to engage KPMG as an outsourced internal audit function, which performs regular reviews of high risk areas under an annual internal audit plan approved by the RMC.
Environmental and social risks have been more prominent  
in recent years, and form part of the company’s general 
risk framework. This Sustainability Report goes into detail about our risk identification and management practices and how we manage our major sustainability risks. Given the nature of our activities there is a low likelihood of material exposure to environmental risks, so we focus  on those risks that are more likely to arise and impact  our business.
Key business risks
Being a complex business in a growth market carries 
with it a number of risks that the company manages.  Those judged as being of the highest importance to  the continued success of the company are:
•
Cyber security and data protection: The cyber
threat to companies around the world is growing and
unrelenting. carsales is vigilant and proactive in itsapproach to cyber security, investing significantGOVERNANCEOUR MATERIAL TOPICS
carsales is committed to strong corporate governance which we believe underpins sustainable value 
creation for investors and other stakeholders.29
carsales Sustainability Report 2021
GOVERNANCEresources to meet the challenges of a complex  
cyber environment in order to protect its customers’ 
data. A cyber-attack or hack of carsales’ systems could 
have a serious impact on the company’s reputation, 
operational and financial performance. Further 
information on how we manage this risk is 
contained in the Customer section of this report.
• Maintenance of professional reputation and brand 
name: The success of carsales and its businesses 
around the world is heavily reliant on our reputation 
and brand. If an event were to occur which substantially 
damaged carsales’ reputation, it could have a significant 
impact on the performance of the company. See the 
Customers section for how we monitor our brand 
health, the Our People section for how we attract 
and retain the highest calibre employees and the 
Governance section for how we manage our risks.
• A downturn in the global economy, motor vehicle  
or general advertising market: The performance of 
carsales is influenced by the overall condition of the 
motor vehicle market in each country in which we 
operate. This in turn is influenced by the general 
conditions of the economy, which by its nature 
is cyclical and subject to change. 
 carsales has proved itself to have a resilient business 
model through past challenges including the global 
financial crisis, hyper-inflation in Argentina, and a 
decline in the general advertising market in Australia. 
Most recently we have had to deal with the COVID-19 
pandemic, which has impacted global markets and 
economies. carsales has been closely monitoring 
trends, identifying areas of risk and opportunity and 
deploying our resources and efforts where they will 
have most impact. We have come through previous 
challenges through extensive experience and constant 
innovation, and we are confident we will emerge from 
this one in a position of strength.
• Information technology: carsales’ business operations 
rely on owned and third-party IT infrastructure and 
systems, including Amazon Web Services and other 
cloud service providers. Interruption to these operations 
could impair carsales’ ability to operate its customer 
facing websites and negatively impact on carsales’ 
financial performance. See the Customers section  
for our approach to system reliability.
• Exposure to sovereign/geopolitical risk: As carsales 
expands into more geographically distant international 
markets, the risk of sovereign and geopolitical risk 
intensifies. We hold a number of investments across the 
Latin American and Asian regions. As these businesses 
grow and we expand to new geographies, we become 
more exposed to regulatory, legal and political risks. 
Many of these geographical risks are outside of the 
Company’s direct control.  We mitigate them by: 
 –maintaining our knowledge of international issues 
and changes in legislation;
 –by training relevant carsales people in key areas;
 –by spreading risk and investment across a wide 
range of countries;
 –maintaining close working relationships with  
our bankers, who provide insight into local markets;
 –consulting with local advisors on matters including 
legal, tax and industrial relations; and
 –members of our leadership team regularly  
consulting with international offices to ensure each 
operation is both compliant and representative  
of the carsales culture.
Risk mitigation
The level of mitigation in place and acceptance of risk 
varies according to the extent of the risk across the 
company’s operations, the potential consequences and 
the likelihood of occurrence. For example, we invest 
heavily in protecting and monitoring against IT security 
risks, whereas risks around changing consumer behavior 
are dealt with by monitoring trends and product 
management activities.
This year, the RMC instituted some new practices to 
ensure that risks are being appropriately monitored 
and mitigated. Each of the risks on the risk register was 
assigned key risk indicators (KRIs) for which a tolerance 
threshold was set. These KRIs are included in the monthly 
Board reports from management to the Board and 
updated with the latest information. Where a KRI is 
approaching the tolerance threshold, it is an indication 
that it requires heightened attention and action from both 
management and the Board. This system has been well 
received, and provides valuable insight to various levels  
of management and the Board. 
Culture of compliance
Central to carsales’ approach to risk mitigation is its 
objective to cultivate a culture of compliance. Each employee 
is a guardian of carsales’ reputation and is armed with the 
knowledge and attitude to protect it. We provide tailored 
training and development throughout the employee 
lifecycle to ensure all employees understand their role in 
compliance. Compliance training begins from day one; 
training modules for all new starters must be completed 
within the first weeks of employment, with annual 
refresher training thereafter to ensure they remain  
top of mind.30
carsales Sustainability Report 2021This ensures all employees are aligned with the role  
of risk and compliance and can understand and stay up  
to date on industry standards and applicable legislation. 
Broadly, carsales compliance training focuses on reducing 
the incidence of legislative breaches, highlights the 
standard of acceptable behaviour and identifies 
inappropriate behaviour which will not be tolerated  
at carsales. The training aims to protect the carsales  
brand and reputation and ultimately strengthen the 
employee experience by enabling them to understand  
how they contribute to the Company’s success.
At a minimum, carsales Australia employees must 
complete the following mandatory compliance modules: 
workplace bullying, sexual harassment, workplace  
health and safety, consumer law, equal opportunity in 
employment and misleading conduct and competition  
law. These training modules are updated to reflect real 
workplace examples. carsales has implemented protocols 
and policies to ensure this training is completed by all 
employees. The on-time completion rate for all 
compliance courses in FY21 averaged 96%.
While carsales is an innovative company, it takes a 
conservative approach with regard to the law. Compliance 
with the law is embedded throughout the company. 
Every team member must adhere to every aspect of  
the law and this is written into our Code of Conduct.  
There are significant consequences for breaches of this 
requirement. Where regulations require a certain standard 
of behaviour we regard this as the minimum, and always 
strive for better.
The Company has developed a ‘Global Code of Conduct’, 
fully endorsed by the Board, which applies to all directors 
and employees. It aims to ensure the highest standards  
of behaviour and professionalism and the practices 
necessary to maintain confidence in the group’s integrity, 
taking into account legal obligations and the expectations 
of the company’s stakeholders. The Code requires that 
team members act at all times with the utmost integrity, 
objectivity and in compliance with the letter and the spirit 
of the law and company policies. It expresses the company’s 
zero-tolerance stance on bribery and corruption and its 
approach to the giving and acceptance of gifts. Our Global 
Code of Conduct is publicly available in the Investor Centre 
of our website at https://shareholder.carsales.com.au/
charters/.
Our Code of Conduct is supported by two key policies:  
our Ethics Policy and our Global Whistleblowing Policy.  
The Ethics Policy expressly requires all company personnel 
to act in accordance with the highest ethical standards  
and to conduct business in a way that is compliant with 
anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. Our Global Whistleblowing Policy is publicly available in the 
Investor Centre of our website at https://shareholder.
carsales.com.au/charters/. It applies to all employees, 
contractors and eligible whistleblowers and provides an 
independent whistleblower hotline supported by Deloitte 
to allow for disclosure whilst maintaining the highest levels 
of confidentiality and the protection of whistleblowers.  
The RMC is informed whenever the whistleblowing policy  
is invoked and receives a report of any investigations 
resulting from disclosure. The identity of whistleblowers  
or any information which would lead to their identification 
cannot be disclosed without their express permission. 
carsales is committed to protecting the anonymity of 
any whistleblower and providing the full protection 
prescribed under law.
Finally, there are a number of other significant policies 
covering issues such as discrimination, harassment, privacy, 
human rights, diversity and equality. They are applicable  
to all employees and directors, with annual refresher 
compliance training.
Ethical behaviour
We are an ethically cautious company, committed to 
following the letter and spirit of the laws that govern us as 
well as expected standards of ethical business behaviour. 
We work with our risk management framework and Code 
of Conduct to manage potential risks from ethical issues 
such as bribery, corruption, fraud and conflicts of interest. 
Our Code of Conduct requires our team members to 
consult with a manager if they are in any doubt about  
a course of action or if someone is breaching our  
ethical expectations.
Modern slavery
A risk for carsales, as for any company when dealing 
with suppliers of certain products and services, is modern 
slavery. With the release of our first modern slavery report 
this year, we have commenced a detailed review of the 
supply chains of our majority owned Australian and 
international group companies. We have categorised  
our suppliers by risk level (using factors such as country  
of origin and type of service/product) and sought to 
engage with them. 
 Our supply chain is relatively small. Around 60% of  
our cost is employees and we own very little physical 
infrastructure, with our offices and systems hardware 
mostly leased. Nevertheless, we have identified around 
1,000 tier one (highest risk) suppliers across all  
our operations. 
We have prepared a Modern Slavery action plan and  
now screen new suppliers for modern slavery risk using  
a questionnaire. We seek to insert anti-slavery clauses  GOVERNANCE CONTINUEDOUR MATERIAL TOPICS31
carsales Sustainability Report 2021
GOVERNANCEinto our supplier contracts and request that suppliers 
adhere to our Supplier Code of Conduct. We work with  
our suppliers collaboratively to address the risks of 
modern slavery, and where appropriate, we will terminate 
our relationship with non-compliant suppliers. 
Our first Modern Slavery Statement was submitted in 
March 2021 and contains a comprehensive explanation of 
our actions to minimise the risk of modern slavery occurring 
in our business. We continue to review all our operations 
globally, including our subsidiaries, to gauge their slavery 
risks and compliance with our anti-slavery requirements. 
Our Modern Slavery Report is available on our website at 
https://shareholder.carsales.com.au/governance/.
Approach to tax 
Our tax strategy is in line with our risk management 
framework. Our tax risk management framework, which  
is not publicly available, is reviewed and approved by the 
Board and administered by our Tax and Treasury function. 
We undertake tax risk assessments and present identified 
tax risks to the Audit Committee as part of the annual and 
half yearly reporting process, and more often if required. 
carsales has signed up to the tax transparency code and 
will, over time, publish more tax information beyond that  
in the Annual Report. 
We have processes to ensure we comply with applicable 
tax regulations in each country we operate in:
• Tax compliance is managed locally by finance team 
members, overseen by Tax and Treasury;
• Income tax and operational tax matters are managed  
by Tax and Treasury;
• PAYG and other withholding, payroll tax and 
superannuation guarantee matters are administered 
jointly by People and Culture and Tax and Treasury;
• Foreign taxes are administered by local management, 
overseen by Tax and Treasury and Finance departments; 
and
• We may involve reputable local tax advisors in all  
these processes.
Tax decisions are made considering both the regulatory 
environment in which we operate (anticipating future 
changes as relevant) and our business goals and risk 
appetite. carsales believes in paying its fair share of tax 
and pays close to the Australian business tax rate of 30%. 
We review proposed business strategies through a tax  
lens to ensure required outcomes can be achieved  
within relevant tax regulations. Our effective tax rate  
is reviewed regularly to monitor the impact business 
decisions are having on our tax positions, and to ensure that such operational decisions are independently 
sustainable without needing to rely on specific tax 
positions/conditions.
The tax governance and control framework is approved by 
the Board of directors, with Tax and Treasury responsible 
for day to day administration and compliance. Tax risk 
management centres around the following commitments:
• Ensuring we comply with tax laws in each jurisdiction  
we operate in and that all tax positions taken are 
reasonably arguable;
• Obtaining advice as needed from tax advisors or 
revenue authorities;
• Dealing transparently with revenue authorities, and 
maintaining open, co-operative relationships with them;
• Maintaining the integrity and reputation of carsales  
at all times; and
• Adopting only positions that enhance shareholder value 
without having to rely on their tax effect for viability. 
The business is well educated on tax matters and we 
ensure tax is considered in all key business operations.  
Tax and Treasury is regularly advised by senior leaders  
of business opportunities, acquisitions and disposals, 
transactions and other business operations under 
consideration that require tax input or with potential tax 
implications and obtains advice from external advisors as 
required. We identify tax risks as they arise and escalate 
significant ones to the Audit Committee and Board.  
We meet with our main tax advisor monthly to discuss 
business updates and ensure that key tax risks are 
identified and addressed or mitigated, with these  
meetings documented. 
We are committed to transparency in our dealings  
with revenue authorities and maintaining open and 
co-operative relationships with them. In matters directly 
relevant to carsales’ operations, we engage in public policy 
advocacy via participation on Treasury working groups  
and indirectly via interactions with the Corporate Tax 
Association and other key taxpayers in the digital 
classifieds sector. 
The carsales group is not subject to country-by-country 
reporting requirements in any tax jurisdiction that it 
currently operates in.32
carsales Sustainability Report 2021As a business that does not extract or process any 
materials, our environmental footprint is relatively 
small, however we recognise that all companies have an 
obligation to do what they can to protect the environment, 
minimise the use of scarce resources and reduce waste 
and pollution. We seek to ensure that our operations, and 
our development and enhancement projects, are managed 
to minimise cost and environmental impact.
In June 2021, we embarked on attaining Climate 
Active certification, with the goal to be carbon 
neutral in our Australian operations in FY22. This 
certification is important to us because it sends a 
clear message to our people, customers, clients, 
and stakeholders that we are committed to 
sustainability, climate change and the 
environment. 
Here we discuss what we are doing to reduce our own 
environmental footprint as a company, and also where 
our thinking is going with regard to how we can contribute 
to reducing the significant environmental footprint of the 
automotive industry. We are conscious that in the past, like 
many other companies, we have not spent enough time 
on environmental thinking, and we are keen to evolve  
and develop a more sophisticated approach.
Energy management
Our own energy use is made up of:
• The energy (mainly grid electricity) used to heat, light 
and power our offices, including energy registered on 
our own meters and the base energy used by our 
landlords to operate lifts, building common areas, 
delivery docks and so on. 
• The energy used in our data centres, both physical  
and virtual or cloud-based.
We seek to reduce our energy consumption through the 
following steps:
• Installing low wattage, low energy, power efficient globes 
in all our offices;
• Using lighting sensors to ensure lights are turned off 
when not in use;
• Employing zoned air conditioning to reduce power  
and switch off outside office hours. This is in place  
in all our offices.
As part of our efforts to reduce our emissions, we were 
pleased to be advised in June 2021 that our head office building in Richmond, Victoria, has been Climate Active 
certified and has achieved a 4.5 star NABERS rating. 
Climate Active certification means that the operations  
of the building, including energy, water, waste and 
refrigerants, have resulted in net zero emissions.
In addition to the risks posed by climate change, we also 
consider the opportunities a transition to a low carbon 
economy this may provide.
There are three types of emissions defined by the 
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol:
• Scope 1, mainly emissions from burning fuel  
(e.g. coal or gas) in our facilities,;
• Scope 2, emissions from grid electricity in our offices 
and physical (and cloud-based, or virtual) data centres;
• Scope 3, emissions resulting from
 –our suppliers providing products and services 
(upstream emissions), and 
 –our customers using our services and products 
(downstream).
During FY21 our Scope 1 emissions were extremely 
limited; no coal or gas fuel was burnt. 
Scope 2 emissions from grid electricity provided almost  
all our emissions. We are setting up processes to track, 
capture and report our energy use and hence our 
emissions across our global operations, and we expect to 
report baseline figures in our FY22 Sustainability Report.
Scope 3 upstream emissions cover all emissions resulting 
from our suppliers’ production and supply of products 
and services. 
In the past air travel was a significant contributor, though 
this has been curtailed almost entirely during COVID-19. 
We have not, to date, included employee commuting or 
other work-related travel in our upstream emissions; we 
will review this during FY22. Other than travel, we are 
currently working with our largest suppliers and expect to 
start reporting our upstream emissions  
from FY23.
Scope 3 downstream emissions are emissions related  
to sold goods and services. 
As a facilitator of the sale of vehicles that contribute to 
emissions, we believe our responsibility for the emissions 
of the vehicles sold through our platforms is limited   
– we have no influence on what vehicle someone buys or 
how they use it. We are, however, considering whether 
we can increase our influence on buyers (see below).ENVIRONMENTOUR MATERIAL TOPICS33
carsales Sustainability Report 2021
ENVIRONMENTThe Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD) recommends that companies with significant 
emissions should report the future financial impact of 
climate change now. Many investors and ESG rating 
agencies recommend that companies report against  
TCFD. Although we are as a business with low emissions, 
making minimal contribution to global warming, we believe 
that it is important for us to understand and mitigate the 
ESG risks to our business. As a provider of platforms to 
facilitate the sale of automotive vehicles, it is inevitable 
that climate change will impact our business in the future. 
We have therefore taken the decision that, from FY23, 
carsales will start reporting against the TCFD framework. 
We expect that our TCFD report will be included in our 
Financial Statements.
Waste and e-waste
The major forms of waste generated in our offices are:
• Items such as paper, cans, bottles, which are sorted  
and recycled;
• Personal waste, non recyclable materials, mostly going 
to landfill; and
• e-waste, such as computer CPUs, laptops, mobile 
phones, monitors etc.
To reduce our waste as much as possible we:
• employ sustainable cleaning, waste and recycling 
practices. We have removed personal rubbish bins from 
desks to ensure all waste is recycled as appropriate;
• purchase 100% recycled paper; and
• use default double-sided, black and white printing  
on all printers.Our e-waste consists of redundant, obsolete or irreparably 
damaged equipment. We seek to ensure that all e-waste is 
either re-used, recycled or goes to materials recovery, as 
these items contain recoverable amounts of metals such 
as gold, silver, copper, titanium, palladium, lead, tin, nickel, 
mercury and cadmium. Where hazardous materials 
such as brominated flame retardants are also present 
it is essential that these are kept out of landfill. We seek  
to reuse old but serviceable computers and laptops by 
providing them, after hard drives have been wiped, to local 
community groups through CoderDojo WA. All other items 
are either recycled or broken down and valuable materials 
recovered. We are currently working with our provider to 
determine the weight of e-waste that we send for disposal 
by reuse, recycling and materials recovery.
In Australia, we aim to achieve complete re-use of 
electronic waste. We are working with our other offices  
in South Korea, Mexico, Brazil, Chile and Argentina, to 
obtain more complete and detailed disposal information. 
Influence on customers
According to the Australian Government, transport 
is Australia’s third largest source of greenhouse gas 
emissions and contributes 17% of total emissions,  
and cars are responsible for roughly half of that.
Since the day we opened for business in 1997 we have had 
no view on what vehicles our customers buy. We provide 
information on fuel consumption, exhaust pollution, safety, 
value for money and the myriad other factors that buyers 
take into account, but we have never said what anyone 
should or should not do. It is their choice.
The rapid onset of climate change has focused the 
attention of the potential for vehicle choice to play an 
active role in reducing emissions. While it will always be  
34
carsales Sustainability Report 2021the buyer’s right to choose, we believe it is important  
that buyers do so from an informed position.
The evolution of automotive from largely ICE (internal 
combustion engine) platforms to battery electric and other 
low emission technologies is the largest step change in the 
industry in a century. We believe carsales has an important 
role to facilitate this change, whether by providing clear, 
easy to understand and independent information on 
new automotive technologies or as a path to market.Climate change is a global challenge and, with regard to 
the contribution made by the vehicles sold through our 
platforms, we are determined to be part of the solution.
carsales is already one of the leaders in the Australian 
marketplace in terms of provision of independent content 
related to electric, hybrid and other low emission vehicles. 
Our content includes both independent advice, reviews 
and technology articles as well as content published in 
conjunction with car manufacturers and energy and 
industry organisations.
ENVIRONMENT CONTINUEDOUR MATERIAL TOPICS35
carsales Sustainability Report 2021
ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY 
ROAD MAP
SUSTAINABILITY ROAD MAP
At carsales we have built a successful company with a 
wonderful culture and a team of engaged, motivated and 
committed people who passionately want our company  
to continue to succeed. In the previous pages we have 
explained what we are doing to identify the sustainability 
issues that are most material to our business, and what  
we are doing to manage them and improve our 
sustainability performance. We now want to look ahead and give an indication of how 
we intend our approach to sustainability issues to evolve 
over the next few years. We cannot be prescriptive at this 
stage; the sustainability topics that are front of mind for 
our investors now are not the same as they were ten years 
ago, and investor interest, driven by regulators, individual 
members of the public and activists, develops over time.
We have set a series of broad goals that we want to achieve over the next two years and hope to move to five year plans 
by next year. Our 2023 goals are as follows:
Our People Customers Community
Goals by 2023
• Zero like for like gender  
pay gap in Australia
• Like for like gender pay gap  
in international businesses  
less than 5%
• Proportion of women in  
all recruitment shortlists:  
50% of total
• Proportion of women,  
all tech roles: 30%
• 50% of women in senior roles 
• Turnover rate at 20% or below.Goals by 2023
• Improve Net Promoter Scores  
by 5%.Goals by 2023
• Set / achieve target for 75% uptake 
of corporate volunteering days
• Set / achieve target for student 
visits, mentoring sessions and 
internships, including female only.
Our approach
• Focus strongly on equal pay for 
equal work – unequal pay seen 
as unfair and discriminatory
• Improve our communication to 
employees, enhance the intranet, 
make all work information easier  
to find
• Provide periods of ‘down time,’ 
including fun activities, to avoid 
burnout.Our approach
• Increase our Net Promoter Scores 
across the company, year on year.Our approach
• Get employees involved in 
recruiting helpers, organisers  
and participants
• Keep track of all company 
and employee donations 
and volunteering hours
• Continue exploring ways to grow 
the talent pipeline, including school 
visits, mentoring, setting challenges, 
surveying exiting employees.36
carsales Sustainability Report 2021SUSTAINABILITY ROAD MAP CONTINUED
Innovation Environment Governance
Goals by 2023
• Bring 3 internally-created, revenue-
generating innovations  
to market a year
• Invest at least 5% of revenue  
in IT and innovation annually.Goals by 2023
• Fully report against TCFD
• Achieve carbon neutrality in  
CAR’s own operations
• Progressively reduce water use, 
waste, e-waste and materials  
(e.g. furniture, re-fit materials).Goals by 2023
• 99% of employees completing all 
compliance training every year
• Embed strong accountability for 
sustainability outcomes in both the 
Board and senior management.
Our approach
• Set up cross-company approach  
to generating ideas, assessment, 
costing etc incl. employee awards 
for best ideas, both revenue-
generating and cost-reduction
• Set up a process to assess,  
cost and fast-track the most 
promising ideasOur approach
• Do preliminary TCFD reporting  
in 2022
• Measure energy use, water, waste, 
e-waste and other materials use 
across all office
• Get baseline figures, then set 
targets for water, waste, e-waste, 
energy, recycling and materialsOur approach
• Make one director responsible  
for overseeing ESG strategy and 
performance within the Risk 
Management Committee
• Set up employee committee to 
canvas and propose ‘bottom-up’ 
ESG initiatives, senior management 
to review
37
carsales Sustainability Report 2021
SUSTAINABILITY 
ROAD MAPFUTURE 
REPORTINGFUTURE REPORTING
In the future, we will continue to broaden and deepen our 
stakeholder engagement and consult with more external 
and internal stakeholders. We expect our processes to 
capture accurate data on key indicators will become better 
established as offices become more used to recording 
data. We will continue to assess the value of the data we 
report and, where we believe its value is limited, determine 
if the effort required to capture it is warranted, for 
example some environmental disclosures.
For this year’s Report, we have gathered information from 
across carsales where possible, but being at an early stage 
of our sustainability journey, do not yet have processes  
in place to capture accurate data from all our global 
operations. We look forward, as our processes become 
better established and we understand our impacts better, 
to reporting on a more global and detailed basis.
Our intentions for next year’s report include continuing to:
• consolidate our processes and move to a more 
automated approach to data capture;
• extend our review of our supplier sustainability to more 
suppliers and into more jurisdictions;
• review all our material topics, including this year’s new 
disclosures, to determine the value in reporting them 
versus the effort required to do so; and 
• reassess the topics that we consider most material to 
our business and stakeholders, both through our own 
assessment processes and as regulators, the community 
and our investors make new demands for disclosures 
on key global and local issues.
In our sustainability report last year, we focused on the 
three key areas of governance, social and environment. 
This year, we have disclosed under six ‘pillars’ – our people, 
customers, community, innovation, governance and the 
environment – in order to provide a more complete view  
of our sustainability across carsales. In this way, we seek to 
extend the relevance and materiality of our reporting, and 
our expectations of our data owners across our entire 
business, in a gradual, clear and consistent way. We intend 
to continue to seek continuous improvement, year on year, 
in the scope, data quality and accessibility of our reporting.Other frameworks
This year, for the first time, we have reported against the 
most commonly used and globally recognized GRI 
Standard, which focuses on the needs of all stakeholders, 
and the SASB Standard, which focuses on the needs of 
institutional investors. There is some common ground 
between the two standards, and, given that sustainability  
is a long term journey, we will aim for continuous,  
year-on-year improvement in our performance and  
in the transparency and depth of our reporting.  
We also intend to report, in the future, against a number  
of other frameworks:
TCFD: In future years, as we touched on in the 
Environment section, on page 33, we intend to report 
against the recommendations of the Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures, usually referred  
to as TCFD. Financial markets need clear, comprehensive, 
high-quality information on the impacts of climate change, 
including the risks and opportunities presented by rising 
temperatures, climate-related policy and emerging 
technologies in our changing world. Reporting against 
TCFD will require us to consider the likely future financial 
impact on our business of climate change, as well taking 
action to assess and manage our climate-related risks  
and opportunities.
We have taken the decision to start reporting against  
TCFD from FY23. This requires us to have accurate 
baseline carbon emissions data and to set targets for 
reducing our emissions over time. While we do not yet 
have this data, we are focused on setting up processes  
for capturing it in all our global offices, which will allow us 
to set targets for emission reduction. Reporting will also 
require us to consider different climate change scenarios 
and understand their future financial impact on our 
business, both through physical risks from extreme 
weather, flooding etc and from transition risk, as the 
world, countries and companies start transitioning to  
a carbon-free future. We believe that being able to put  
a price on climate change impacts will help to make  
us a more resilient company and demonstrate to our 
stakeholders that we take climate change seriously.38
carsales Sustainability Report 2021FUTURE REPORTING CONTINUED
UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs):  
We also intend to report in future on the extent to 
which our sustainability performance is aligned with 
the 17 Sustainable Development Goals. The SDGs were 
adopted by all UN Member States in 2015, as part of the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development which set out 
a 15-year plan to achieve the Goals. We can align with 
(some or all) 17 SDGs by defining priorities, setting goals, 
demonstrating how we integrate ESG into our core business 
and reporting on progress. This is a long term commitment.
We do not comment on specific issues raised by individual 
stakeholders during the consultation process that led to 
the preparation of this Report.
We report our sustainability performance annually, 
covering each financial year from 1 July to 30 June.  
This Sustainability Report is available on the carsales 
investor website at shareholder.carsales.com.au.
External assurance
We did not utilise any external assurance for this report. 
We anticipate that we may utilise limited assurance on  
key topics in future reports.
Queries about this report
All questions on the Sustainability Report or our 
sustainability initiatives should be addressed to  
our Company Secretary.39
carsales Sustainability Report 2021
FUTURE 
REPORTINGSUSTAINABILITY 
PERFORMANCE 
FY21SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE FY21
People
Collective bargaining agreements
Percentage of total employees covered by collective  
bargaining agreements0%
New hires
New hires (Australia only), total 142
New hires by gender (Australia) 32% female, 68% male
New hires, by age (Australia):
 Under 30 27%
 30-50 67%
 Over 50 6%
Parental leave
Total number of employees entitled to parental leave, by gender 653
Total number of employees that took parental leave, by gender 27 males, 23 females
Total number of employees that returned to work in the reporting 
period after parental leave ended, by gender.27 males, 22 females
Total number of employees that returned to work after parental leave 
ended who were still employed 12 months after their return to work,  
by gender24 males, 22 females
Return to work/retention rates of employees taking parental leave,  
by gender100% of males,  
96% of females
Work related injuries All employeesNon-employees 
whose work 
carsales controls
Number and rate of fatalities from work-related injury 0 0
Number and rate of high-consequence work-related  
injuries (except fatalities)0 0
Number and rate of recordable work-related injuries 2 0
Main types of work-related injury Soft tissue -
Work-related hazards that pose a risk of high-consequence injury None identified
Diversity 
(a)  Percentage of individuals in the organization’s governance  
bodies by Gender28.5% female, 71.5% 
male.
Age group: 
 Under 30 N/A
 30-50 100% female, 0% male
 Over 50 17% female, 83% male
  Other indicators of diversity where relevant  
(e.g. minority or vulnerable groups)Not recorded
(b)  Percentage of employees per employee category in each  
of the following diversity categories:
By gender:
 Total 29% female, 70% 
male, 1% other
 Full time 27% female, 72% 
male, 1% other
 Part time 72% female, 22% male
 Casual 14% female, 86% male
 Fixed term 33% female, 67% male40
carsales Sustainability Report 2021SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE FY21 CONTINUED
Work related injuries All employeesNon-employees 
whose work 
carsales controls
By age group:
 Under 30 7% female, 13% male
 30-50 30% female,  
69% male, 1% other
 Over 50 23% female, 77% male
  Other indicators of diversity where relevant  
(e.g. minority or vulnerable groups)Not recorded
Discrimination
Number of incidents of discrimination reported during the  
reporting period
Child labour
Operations and suppliers considered to have a significant risk for 
incidents of Child labour or young workers exposed to hazardous workOperations N/A, 
suppliers see our 
Modern Slavery report
Operations and suppliers considered to have a significant risk  
for incidents of child labour either in terms of Type of operation  
(i.e. manufacturing plant) and supplier;Operations N/A, 
suppliers see our 
Modern Slavery report
Countries/geographic areas with operations and suppliers  
considered at riskOperations N/A, 
suppliers see our 
Modern Slavery report
Forced or compulsory labour
Operations and suppliers considered to have a significant risk for 
incidents of forced or compulsory labour, either in terms of Type  
of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and supplierOperations N/A, 
suppliers see our 
Modern Slavery report
Countries/geographic areas with operations and suppliers  
considered at riskOperations N/A, 
suppliers see our 
Modern Slavery report
Measures taken by the organisation in the reporting period  
intended to contribute to the effective abolition of all forms  
of forced/compulsory labourSee our Modern 
Slavery Report
Customers
System reliability
Proportion of time our websites were fully accessible to customers 99.99%
Community 
Community activity
Total direct payment to charitable and community organisations
For other community activity, see Community section $104,000
Environment
We are currently establishing accurate data capture processes for our 
environmental performance and expect to be able to report baseline 
data in FY22. See Environment section for information on what we are 
doing to reduce our environmental impacts.
Innovation
Our reporting of innovation, and how we create the next generation of 
products and enhancements, is qualitative so there are no specific 
metrics that we report on.
Governance
Our reporting of governance issues is largely qualitative and we report 
few metrics. Our Corporate Governance Statement provides more detail 
on our complete range of governance issues and how we manage them. 
Sustainability-related governance issues are covered in the Governance 
section.41
carsales Sustainability Report 2021
SUSTAINABILITY 
PERFORMANCE 
FY21GRI AND SASB 
CONTENT 
INDEXESGRI AND SASB CONTENT INDEXES
Indicator 
code Description Topic boundary Location or link
UNIVERSAL DISCLOSURES
102-1 Name of the organisation Inside the company carsales.com.au
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Inside the company Annual Report
102-3 Location of headquarters Inside the company Melbourne, Australia
102-4 Location of operations Inside the company Australia, South Korea, 
Mexico, Chile, Argentina, 
Brazil, New Zealand, 
Malaysia, Thailand, China
102-5 Ownership and legal form Inside the company Australian public company 
listed on ASX
102-6 Markets served Outside the company About this report page 13
102-7 Scale of the organisation Inside and outside 
the companyAnnual report
102-8 Information on employees and other workers Inside the company Our People page 19
102-9 Supply chain Governance page 28
102-10 Significant changes to the organisation regarding size, 
structure, ownership and its supply chainInside and outside 
the companyNo material changes
102-11 Precautionary principle or approach N/A Not applicable
102-12 Externally developed economic, environmental  
and social chartersInside and outside 
the companyNone
102-13 Membership of associations (industry) and  
national or international advocacy - hold position  
on governance body; provide funding or views 
membership as strategicInside and outside 
the companySupports the industry body 
AADA but no greater 
involvement
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Inside the company CEO’s statement, page 4
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms  
of behaviourInside the company Our People page 11, 
Governance page 28
102-18 Governance assurance Inside the company Governance, page 28
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Inside and outside 
the companyAbout this report page 13
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Inside the company Our People page 11
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Inside and outside 
the companyAbout this report page 13
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Inside and outside 
the companyAbout this report page 13
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised N/A We do not report on 
individual concerns raised
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated  
financial statementsInside the company Annual Report
102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Inside the company About this report, page 13
102-47 List of material topics Inside the company About this report, page 13
102-48 Restatements of information N/A Not applicable
102-49 Changes in reporting Inside and outside 
the companyAbout this report, page 13
102-50 Reporting period N/A 1 July 2020 to 30 June 2021
102-51 Date of most recent report N/A August 2020
102-52 Reporting cycle N/A Annually
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report N/A Company Secretary
102-54 Claims of reporting N/A About this report page 13
102-55 GRI content index N/A page 41-44
102-56 External assurance N/A About this report page 1342
carsales Sustainability Report 2021GRI AND SASB CONTENT INDEXES CONTINUED
Indicator 
code Description Topic boundary Location or link
TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES
Management approach
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Inside the company About this report page 13
103-2 The management approach and its components Inside the company Whole report
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Inside the company Whole report
ECONOMIC
Anti-corruption
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Inside the company Governance page 28
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption Inside the company Governance page 28
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Inside the company Governance page 28
Tax
207-1 Approach to tax Inside the company Governance page 28
207-2 Tax governance, control and risk management Inside the company Governance page 28
207-3 Stakeholder engagement and management  
of concerns related to taxInside and outside 
the companyGovernance page 28
207-4 Country-by-country reporting N/A Not required
ENVIRONMENT
Energy
302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation Inside the company Environment page 32
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organisation Environment page 32
302-3 Energy intensity Inside the company Environment page 32
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Inside the company Environment page 32
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products  
and servicesInside the company Environment page 32
Water and effluents
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Inside the company Environment page 32
303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts Environment page 32
303-3 Water withdrawal Environment page 32
303-4 Water discharge Environment page 32
303-5 Water consumption Inside the company Environment page 32
Emissions
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Inside the company Environment page 32
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Inside the company Environment page 32
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Inside and outside 
the companyEnvironment page 32
305-4 GHG emissions intensity Inside the company Environment page 32
Effluents and waste
306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Environment page 3243
carsales Sustainability Report 2021
GRI AND SASB 
CONTENT 
INDEXESIndicator 
code Description Topic boundary Location or link
SOCIAL
Employment
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Inside the company Our People page 11
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 
provided to temporary or part-time employeesInside the company Our People page 11
401-3 Parental leave Inside the company Our People page 11
Occupational health and safety
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system Inside the company Our People page 11
403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational 
diseasesInside the company Our People page 11
403-3 Occupational health services Inside the company Our People page 11
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication 
on occupational health and safetyInside the company Our People page 11
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety Inside the company Our People page 11
403-6 Promotion of worker health Inside the company Our People page 11
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health  
and safety impacts directly linked by business 
relationshipsInside the company Our People page 11
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and  
safety management systemInside the company Our People page 11
403-9 Work-related injuries Inside the company Our People page 11
Training and education
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Inside the company Our People page 11
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and employee 
transition programsInside the company Our People page 11
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 
performance and career development reviewsInside the company Our People page 11
Diversity and equal opportunity
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Inside the company Our People page 11
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women  
to menInside the company Our People page 11
Non-discrimination
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Inside the company
Freedom of association and collective bargaining
407-1 Freedom of association and collective bargaining Inside the company Our People page 11
Child labour
408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for  
child labourInside and outside 
the companyGovernance page 28
Forced or compulsory labour
409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 
incidents of forced or compulsory labourInside and outside 
the companyGovernance page 28
Customer privacy
418-1 Privacy Customers page 1944
carsales Sustainability Report 2021GRI AND SASB CONTENT INDEXES CONTINUED
Indicator  
code Description Location or link
SASB - TECHNOLOGY AND COMMUNICATIONS industry - INTERNET MEDIA AND SERVICES sub-industry
Environment Environmental Footprint of Hardware Infrastructure
TC-IM-130a.1 (1) Total energy consumed (gigajoules), (2) percentage grid electricity,  
(3) percentage renewable Environment page 32
TC-IM-130a.2 (1) Total water withdrawn (‘000 cu m), (2) total water consumed, 
percentage of each in regions with High or Extremely High Baseline 
Water StressEnvironment page 32
TC-IM-130a.3 Discussion of the integration of environmental considerations  
into strategic planning for data centre needsEnvironment page 32
Social Capital Data Privacy, Advertising Standards & Freedom of Expression
TC-IM-220a.1 Description of policies and practices relating to behavioral advertising  
and user privacy Customers page 19
TC-IM-220a.2 Number of users whose information is used for secondary purposes Customers page 19
TC-IM-220a.3 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings  
associated with user privacyCustomers page 19
TC-IM-220a.4 (1) Number of law enforcement requests for user information,  
(2) number of users whose information was requested,  
(3) percentage resulting in disclosureWe do not track these 
numbers
TC-IM-220a.6 Number of government requests to remove content, percentage  
compliance with requestNo requests to remove 
content
Social capital Data security
TC-IM-230a.1 (1) Number of data breaches (2) percentage involving personally  
identifiable information (PII), (3) no of users affected Customers page 19
TC-IM-230a.2 Description of approach to identifying and addressing data security  
risks, including use of third-party cybersecurity standardsCustomers page 19
Human capital Employee recruitment, inclusion and performance
TC-IM-330a.1 Percentage of employees that are foreign nationals Our People page 11
TC-IM-330a.2 Employee engagement as a percentage Our People page 11
TC-IM-330a.3 Percentage of gender and racial/ethnic group representation for  
(1) management, (2) technical staff, and (3) all other employeesOur People page 11
Leadership and governance
TC-IM-520a.1 Intellectual Property Protection & Competitive Behaviour - monetary  
losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with anti-competitive 
behaviour regulationsGovernance page 2845
carsales Sustainability Report 2021
GRI AND SASB 
CONTENT 
INDEXESCORPORATE 
DIRECTORY
CORPORATE DIRECTORY
Directors
Pat O’Sullivan
(Non-Executive Chair)
Cameron McIntyre
(Managing Director and CEO)
Wal Pisciotta OAM
(Non-Executive Director)
Kim Anderson
(Non-Executive Director)
Edwina Gilbert
(Non-Executive Director)
Kee Wong
(Non-Executive Director)
David Wiadrowski
(Non-Executive Director)
Steve Kloss
(Alternate Non-Executive Director)
Company secretary
Nicole BirmanRegistered office
Level 4, 449 Punt Road Richmond Vic 3121
T +61 3 9093 8600
F +61 3 9093 8697
carsales.com.au