CATERPILLAR’S ENVIRONMENTAL,  
SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE APPROACH2021   
SUSTAINABILITY 
REPORT
CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT2
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  3
CHAIRMAN & CEO LETTER  3
SUSTAINABILITY HIGHLIGHTS  4
GOALS AND PROGRESS  6
SUSTAINABILITY AT CATERPILLAR  8
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  11
ENERGY, FUEL ECONOMY  
AND EMISSIONS  15
MATERIAL PROCUREMENT  31
REMANUFACTURING  34
PEOPLE  39
PHILANTHROPY  50CONTENTS
REPORTING
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND  
GOVERNANCE (ESG) DATA  56
PRIORITIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  
OF ESG ISSUES  60
SUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING  
STANDARDS BOARD (SASB) INDEX  61
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE 
(GRI) INDEX  62
DATA ASSURANCE  68
ABOUT THIS REPORT  69
CORPORATE PROFILE  
With 2021 sales and revenues of $51 .0 billion, Caterpillar Inc. is the world’s leading manufacturer of construction and mining equipment, off-highway diesel and natural gas 
engines, industrial gas turbines and diesel-electric locomotives. For nearly 100 years, we’ve been helping customers build a better, more sustainable world and are committed and contributing to a reduced-carbon future. Our innovative products and services, backed by our global dealer network, provide exceptional value that helps customers succeed. Caterpillar does business on every continent, principally operating through three primary segments — Construction Industries, Resource Industries and Energy & 
Transportation — and providing financing and related services through our Financial Products segment.GO DIRECTLY TO CONTENT
KEY:3
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
CHAIRMAN & CEO LETTER
SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION
We believe the energy transition represents a significant opportunity for 
long-term profitable growth, leading us to add sustainability as a focus area of our enterprise strategy. 
To demonstrate the importance of transparent climate-related reporting 
and disclosure, we will further enhance our reporting in our Sustainability Report released in 2023. This will include our first-ever Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) report and public disclosure of estimated Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions. ENABLING OUR CUSTOMERS’ SUCCESSThe addition of sustainability as a focus area, together with operational excellence, expanded offerings and services, highlights our work  
to achieve Caterpillar’s and our customers’ climate-related objectives. Through investments in technology that facilitate fuel transition, operational efficiency and reduced emissions, we are helping our customers reduce their carbon footprint while also meeting their requirements for performance, durability and economic value. 
In 2021, a number of projects were announced that will allow 
Caterpillar to contribute to a reduced-carbon future. You can read about several examples of product innovation in our Sustainability Report.
OUR VALUES IN ACTIONOur ESG commitment extends beyond environmental sustainability. We continue to build a more diverse and inclusive workplace, as outlined in our Diversity & Inclusion Report. We also demonstrate strong corporate citizenship through the Caterpillar Foundation, helping build stronger, more resilient and sustainable communities around the world.
We are building on our legacy of providing products and services that 
advance sustainable progress and improve standards of living, supporting our customers throughout the energy transition as they build a better, more sustainable world. 
 Jim Umpleby
 Chairman & CEOOur long-standing commitment to sustainability inspires us to set and achieve meaningful 
environmental, social and governance (ESG) goals and develop innovative products, technologies 
and services to support our customers on their sustainability journey. 
PROFITABLE
GROWTH
OPERATING & EXECUTION MODEL
OUR VALUES IN ACTION
PARTNERS
PEOPLE
CUSTOMERS
OPERATIONAL
EXCELLENCE
EXPANDED
OFFERINGS
SERVICES
SUSTAINABILITY
4
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
CATERPILLAR TO BEGIN REPORTING  
SCOPE 3 GHG EMISSIONS DATA IN 2023
CATERPILLAR’S APPROACH TO GHG EMISSIONS
Caterpillar supports the goals of the Paris Agreement to limit global 
temperature rise, and we are committed to contributing to a reduced-carbon future. We demonstrate our commitment by setting targets  
and disclosing progress toward greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reduction goals. We announced our first sustainability goals in 2006 and refined them in 2013 to include a 50% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensity from 2006 to 2020. We actually achieved a 51% reduction against this goal.
In 2021, we set seven new sustainability goals for 2030. Among them is 
a new goal to further reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 30% between 2018 and 2030. 
 Also in 2021, we further emphasized our commitment to reducing product-related emissions by disclosing an additional new goal  
that 100% of our new products through 2030 will be more sustainable than the previous generation.
In 2023, Caterpillar will provide our first-ever public disclosure of 
estimated Scope 3 emissions data (including for Category 11 – Use  
of Sold Products), utilizing the Greenhouse Gas Protocol for reporting. 
Also of note, our first TCFD report will also be published in 2023.  
We will continue to be transparent about our goals, progress and innovations and are committed to continue enhancing our climate  
and sustainability disclosures.
At Caterpillar, we have a legacy of providing products and services 
that continually improve the quality of life and the environment by 
fulfilling society’s need for infrastructure including shelter, clean water, transportation and reliable energy – in a sustainable way.
In 2021, we released our Climate & Energy Statement, which reflects  
our commitment to contributing to a reduced-carbon future.
Click here to read our updated CLIMATE & ENERGY STATEMENT.
5
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE
CATERPILLAR RESTRUCTURES BOARD TO FURTHER 
EMPHASIZE SUSTAINABILITY AND ESG
Sustainability oversight is conducted at Caterpillar’s highest levels, beginning with our board of directors. Given the importance  
of sustainability, the board restructured its committees, effective  
June 8, 2022, and created the new Sustainability and other Public Policy Committee (SPPC). Among other responsibilities, the SPPC will have oversight over climate and sustainability.   
Management’s sustainability governance includes our Chief Executive 
Officer (CEO) and all executive officers who report directly to the CEO, including the Chief Sustainability & Strategy Officer.
            Read more about our Corporate Governance
SUSTAINABILITY 
GOVERNANCE 2021
Caterpillar Board of Directors
Public Policy  
and Governance Committee
Chief Executive Officer
Executive OfficeSUSTAINABILITY 
GOVERNANCE 2022 
Caterpillar Board of Directors
Sustainability and other  
Public Policy Committee
Chief Executive Officer
Executive Office
SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AND RESPONSIVENESS
Caterpillar values the diverse perspectives and input of our shareholders. Through regular, ongoing shareholder engagement, we hear their interest  
in how Caterpillar is addressing and reporting on climate change, as well as how our company is contributing to a reduced-carbon future.  
We have responded to shareholder feedback by taking and announcing several key actions, including:
• Disclosing our estimated Scope 3 GHG emissions data beginning in 2023;
•  Committing to utilize the TCFD framework to further enhance our sustainability reporting beginning in 2023;
•  Incorporating ESG performance into the 2022 incentive plan for executive officers;
•  Creating a new executive leadership position of Chief Sustainability & Strategy Officer , reporting directly to the Chief Executive Officer; and
•  Launching our annual Diversity and Inclusion Report, which also includes a link to the disclosure of our EEO-1 report.6*Renewable sources includes purchased and on-site generated renewable energy, and the renewable energy from grid-purchased electricity.
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY11%  
Goal Progress:
✔  Foundational year for defining and deploying water management criteria in high-risk areas
✔
  Implemented water management elements, including 
compliance, management strategy, leadership review,  
and employee engagement2030 GOALS AND PROGRESS
  Operations Water
GOAL: Implement water management strategies at 100%  
of facilities located in water high-risk areas by 2030. 
Facilities achieved goal of water  strategy implementation
  
Operations Waste
GOAL: Reduce landfill intensity by 50% from 2018 to 2030.
34%  
Goal Progress:✔
  Recycled 91% of waste due to waste reduction  and recycling projects 
✔
  Reduced packaging waste due to increased utilization  
of returnable shipping containers Reduction in landfill intensity from 2018
  Remanufacturing32%  
Goal Progress:✔
  24% of all energy at Caterpillar facilities provided  by renewable sources*
✔
  Implemented energy/GHG reduction initiatives, including machine replacements and production efficiency improvements, resulting in beneficial contributions  to reduced emissions
  Operations Energy & Emissions
GOAL: We have set a science-based Scope 1 and 2 goal  
to reduce absolute greenhouse gas emissions from our operations by 30% from 2018 to 2030. 
Reduction in absolute GHG emissions from 2018
  Product Emissions & Energy Efficiency 
GOAL: 100% of Caterpillar’s new products through 2030 will be more sustainable than the previous generation through collaborating  
with customers, reduced waste, improved design for rebuild/remanufacturing, lower emissions or improved efficiency. 
100%  
Goal Progress:✔
  Reduced waste and fuel consumption as well as increased safety and operator ease-of-use features in the Cat® M316 and  
M320 Wheel Excavators as compared to previous models
✔  Supported improved efficiency and productivity, such as the 992 Wheel Loader that provides optimized design resulting in 32%  
more productivity and 48% more efficiency, as compared to the 992K
✔  Reduced emissions through products such as the G3520 2.5MW gas generator set with retrofit kits allowing up to 25% hydrogen content, expected to be available in late 2022.New products introduced in 2021 were more sustainable than previous generationsGOAL: Increase sales and revenues from remanufacturing offerings by 25% from 2018 to 2030.
Decrease in sales and revenues from  
remanufactured products from 2018
-3% 
Goal Progress:✔
  127 million pounds of material taken back for remanufacturing through Cat Reman
✔
  Progress anticipated with remanufacturing options  integrated into future product development 
On track Not on trackProgressingKEY:  Progress toward 
achieving 2030 goal
7
  
Customer Safety
GOAL: 
Provide leadership in the safety of people who work in, on and around our products.
           Our Qualitative Commitment Statement 
For example, Caterpillar Safety Services highlights in 2021:
✔
  Provided safety counseling for 7,200+ customer employees
✔  Developed a National Safety Month campaign
✔  Hosted an Executive Leadership Safety Summit
  
Employee Health & Safety
GOAL: We aspire to prevent all injuries and will further  
our industry-leading safety results by reducing  
recordable injury frequency (RIF) by 50% from 2018 to 2030. 
23%  
Goal Progress:✔
  Best safety performance on record for third year in a row
✔  Facilities worldwide effectively managed enhanced safety measures and vaccination opportunities to protect employees from COVID-19
✔
  Amplified focus on new hire safety training and mentorshipDecrease in recordable injury frequency from 20182030 GOALS AND PROGRESS – continued
The introduction of R1700 XE, a zero-emission battery electric loader, is the 
latest step in Caterpillar’s journey to electrification. A first of its kind for the mining industry, the Cat
® MEC500 Mobile Equipment Charger is a standalone fast 
charging system designed to charge quickly and safely wherever it’s needed.
EXECUTIVE SUMMARYCATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT8
CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT9
Nearly a century of sustainable innovation.
Driving sustainable progress and helping customers build a better world through innovative  
products and services is not new to Caterpillar. Since our founding in 1925, sustainable innovation  
has powered our business.
Today, with products from our Construction Industries, Resource Industries and Energy & Transportation segments in virtually every 
corner of the earth, we share the concerns of governments and the public about the risks of climate change. We support global 
efforts to mitigate climate change. We are committed to reducing Caterpillar’s GHG emissions while helping our customers meet 
their climate-related objectives as they build a better, more sustainable world. We support our customers during this energy transition 
through investments in new products, technologies and services.
Providing what customers need, where and when they need it, has been a formula for success throughout Caterpillar’s history. 
Projects like the Panama Canal and the Apollo 11 mission to the moon are just two examples of big global challenges we’ve helped our customers tackle by bringing together innovative equipment, services and support. These milestones in our history were 
groundbreaking — and challenging. And now, we collectively face our next one — mitigating the effects of global climate change. 
Along with our customers, we’ve helped build the world we live in and embrace the challenge of helping build an even better one.SUSTAINABILITY AT CATERPILLAR
CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT10AWARDS  
AND  RECOGNITION
BUSINESS AND INNOVATION
Dow Jones Sustainability Indices   
World and North America, 22 years
S&P Global   
2021 Sustainability Yearbook
Wall Street Journal   
100 Most Sustainably Managed  
Companies 2021 (#21) Best-Managed Companies of 2021
Fortune   
World’s Most Admired Companies (#101)
Fortune 500  
World’s Most Admired Companies (#78)Newsweek  
America’s Most Responsible  
Companies 2022 (#203)
Interbrand  
Best Global Brands (#82)
SUSTAINABILITY AT CATERPILLAR
WORKPLACE
Forbes Magazine   
World’s Best Employers 2021 (#108) 
America’s Best Employers 2021 (#344) 
America’s Best Employers by State 2021 
Best Employers for Veterans (#34) 
Best Employers for Diversity 2021 (#362) 
Global 2000, 2021 ( #132)
Human Rights Campaign   
Campaign Corporate Equality Index 2021 
80% Ranking
Great Place to Work Institute   
2021 Best Company to Work for in Brazil Human Rights Campaign  
Equidad MX 2021   
Top major Mexican businesses and 
multinationals for LGBT workplace 
inclusion, Caterpillar Nuevo Laredo
Human Rights Campaign Foundation
Corporate Equality Index
United Way Worldwide’s Global 
Corporate Leadership Program10+ 
For more than 10 years, the 
annual internal Sustainability 
Excellence Awards have engaged 
our employees by recognizing Caterpillar teams or individuals who develop more sustainable 
products, services, solutions  
or processes.CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT11
2021 HIGHLIGHTS
  Named fir st Caterpillar Chief Sustainability & 
Strategy Officer
  Commit ted to reporting in alignment with  
Task Force on Climate-Related Financial  
Disclosures in 2023
  Announced commitment to incorporate ESG 
performance into our 2022 incentive plan for 
Executive OfficersCATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT12
Governance creates value and builds trust. 
We believe a robust governance framework creates long-term value for our shareholders, strengthens board 
and management accountability, and builds trust in the company and our brand.
GOVERNANCE HIGHLIGHTS* 
Size of Board 10
Number of Independent Directors 9
Average Age of Directors 64
Average Director Tenure  
(in years) 8
Annual Election of Directors Yes
Mandatory Retirement Age 74
Women 30%
Diversity 20%
Majority Voting in Director Elections Yes
Independent Presiding Director Yes
Code of Conduct for Directors, 
Officers and Employees Yes
Supermajority Voting Threshold  
for Mergers No
Proxy Access Yes
Shareholder Action by  
Written Consent No
Shareholder Ability to Call  
Special Meetings Yes
Poison Pill No
Stock Ownership Guidelines for 
Directors and Executive Officers Yes
Anti-Hedging and Pledging Policies Yes
Clawback Policy Yes
Our board of directors has direct oversight of our climate and sustainability efforts.  
In 2021, Caterpillar leadership regularly reported to the board’s Public Policy and 
Governance Committee (PPG) regarding sustainability and climate strategies, priorities, 
goals and performance. The PPG was also briefed on these and other ESG issues as 
well as the perspectives of investors, customers, employees and other stakeholders. 
The PPG also reviewed Caterpillar’s annual political contributions and recommended 
the amount the company should contribute to the Caterpillar Foundation. The PPG 
provided regular updates to the board on these matters.
Recognizing the increasing complexity and stakeholder interest in climate, sustainability 
and other ESG issues, in April 2022, the board decided to restructure certain of its committees. The board created the Sustainability & other Public Policy Committee 
(SPPC) to oversee all of the public policy matters previously overseen by the PPG. 
In addition, the SPPC will have explicit oversight over sustainability, social and public 
policy matters, including those related to the environment, climate change, human 
rights and lobbying. This restructuring will be effective immediately following the 
annual shareholder meeting on June 8, 2022.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Cat® generator sets installed at a landfill gas processing and power plant near Montreal, Canada, 
producing electricity from landfill gas.*  T he information in this table reflects only the director nominees 
standing for re-election at the annual meeting of shareholders 
on June 8, 2022.CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT13ETHICS & COMPLIANCE
Caterpillar operates according to Our Values 
in Action — Caterpillar’s Code of Conduct. 
The Code defines our values — Integrity, 
Excellence, Teamwork, Commitment and 
Sustainability — which represent what we 
stand for and how we conduct ourselves 
with our customers, suppliers, communities 
and one another. 
It guides our employees, affiliates and 
board members in living our Values each 
day. Among the topics covered are avoiding 
conflicts of interest, fair competition, 
anti-bribery, trade compliance, employee 
performance and development, non-
harassment, non-discrimination, personal 
privacy, supplier expectations and environmental responsibility.
All Caterpillar employees are annually 
required to complete Code of Conduct 
training. As part of this training, employees 
must certify that they have read, understand 
and agree to comply with the Code of Conduct. Additional compliance training is 
also provided to employees based on risk 
identified in their job roles. ETHICS & COMPLIANCE HELPLINE 
We hold ourselves to the highest standard of integrity and ethical behavior. We promote 
and respect the rule of law and expect our 
employees and suppliers to do the same. We 
encourage individuals to report situations in 
which they have a good-faith belief that any 
circumstance or action has violated our Code 
of Conduct, enterprise policy or applicable 
law. Those who wish to report a concern can 
do so confidentially and anonymously through resources maintained by our Office of Business 
Practices. These resources include:
• Online reporting
•  Email reporting at  
BusinessPractices@cat.com
•  T elephone reporting with toll-free and  
call-collect dialing options that support 
reporting in multiple languages and from 
multiple countries
Caterpillar will not take any action — or tolerate any reprisal — against any party for 
raising an issue in good faith.
Learn more about our governance 
framework, corporate governance 
initiatives and board composition: 
• 2022 Caterpillar Proxy Statement  
• Board Committees  
• Caterpillar Code of Conduct
CORPORATE GOVERNANCECATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT14
RISK MANAGEMENT
Risk is an inherent part of conducting global business, and 
managing risk is fundamental to the way we work. Through 
robust programs including Enterprise Risk Management, 
Compliance and Audit, we engage across the enterprise to 
identify, prioritize and manage risks. 
Enterprise Risk Management and our enterprise strategy are 
linked: To better inform our decision-making, we evaluate risks at both the business unit and enterprise levels, considering  
the likelihood and potential impact of each risk. These  
evaluations guide our approach for risk management, allow  
us to understand the challenges these risks bring and position  
our business for the opportunities they present. 
We consider risks across many categories, including strategic, 
operational, financial, compliance and hazard risks. We embed 
ESG risks into each risk category as part of our commitment to 
sustainability. We treat these ESG risks with the same priority 
and rigor as other risks across the business. As risk management is fundamental to our culture, there 
is strong engagement in risk management from the CEO, 
executives, and senior leaders. The company’s officers share 
accountability for business risks, and the board has oversight of 
the enterprise process. The board and its committees oversee 
risk and have regular updates on topics that are identified 
through the risk management process. Outputs from risk 
management drive strategic initiatives and disclosures. 
Our risk management culture enables us to critically evaluate 
risks to our business and identify opportunities to create 
value for our employees, customers and shareholders. 
Our commitment to sustainability is reflected in our risk 
management practices as we strive to build a better world.
POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS
We advocate for policies, agreements, legislation and regulations 
that enable us to help our customers build a better, more 
sustainable world.
Where allowable by law, Caterpillar may make corporate 
contributions to campaigns, individual candidates or political 
committees to support public policies we believe will promote 
our business interests. Any political contributions by Caterpillar must be approved by our vice president of Global Government 
& Corporate Affairs. In addition, the board annually reviews the 
company’s political spending policy and its political activities 
including corporate political contributions, political contribution 
activities of the Caterpillar Political Action Committee (CATPAC), 
trade association participation and Caterpillar’s significant 
lobbying priorities.  CATPAC contributions are made only in U.S. federal and state elections. CATPAC is funded through voluntary contributions by 
eligible individuals. A steering committee comprised of Caterpillar 
non-officer employees representing a diverse mix of U.S. 
locations and business units oversees all CATPAC disbursements 
to ensure they promote the company’s business interests.
Caterpillar also maintains memberships in trade associations 
and business groups that may advocate on behalf of business 
community segments. We are committed to supporting these 
organizations, as they champion public policies that contribute 
to the business community’s growth and success.
Additional information regarding Caterpillar’s 
corporate contributions, CATPAC contributions and 
trade association memberships is available on our 
political engagement website.CORPORATE GOVERNANCECATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT15
2021 HIGHLIGHTS
  Continued in vestment in alternative and  
renewable power generation sources to  
reduce our operational emissions 
  Suppor ted customers in their sustainability  
and climate journey by introducing product  innovations that are more fuel efficient and  
lower-carbon generating in their operationCATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT16
Caterpillar supports global efforts  
to mitigate climate change. 
Caterpillar shares the concerns of governments and the public about the risks of climate 
change and supports global efforts to mitigate it. 
We are committed to a reduced-carbon future. We demonstrate this in many ways, including our significant 
progress in reducing GHG emissions from our operations and our continued investment in new products, 
technologies and services to help our customers achieve climate-related objectives.
We have a legacy of providing products and services that continually improve the quality of life and the 
environment by fulfilling society’s need for infrastructure including shelter, clean water, transportation and 
reliable energy — in a sustainable way.
Learn more about Caterpillar  
Climate and Energy Statement
ENERGY, FUEL ECONOMY & EMISSIONSCATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT17
Caterpillar manages hundreds of facilities worldwide, all of 
which require energy. Some of these operations, especially 
our manufacturing sites, are energy intensive. To reduce our 
energy consumption and our GHG emissions, we are improving 
energy efficiency, investing in alternative and renewable power 
generation sources, and considering new technologies as they 
become available. Likewise, we are making other environmental 
improvements to conserve water and manage waste.
Our enterprise energy management team builds awareness, 
encourages action and develops improvements in energy 
efficiency and alternative/renewable power generation. These 
solutions include purchasing renewable energy certificates and 
installing renewable energy sources, such as photovoltaics (PV) or 
a microgrid installation that combines PV with battery storage to 
supplement and offset electricity generated with diesel fuel at an 
off-grid location. One significant contribution to alternative energy 
consumption is the operation of combined heat and power (CHP) systems to power several manufacturing facilities. The energy 
management team evaluates opportunities for replication of CHP , 
PV and microgrids at other locations. We also continue to assess 
new ways to upgrade systems and make facilities more efficient.
Our high-performance standards for environmental, health and safety (EHS) encourage going beyond merely complying 
with EHS laws and regulations. Our EHS assurance manual 
outlines Caterpillar’s EHS Management System and establishes 
fundamental requirements for all workplaces globally, including 
majority-owned subsidiaries and majority-owned joint ventures. 
Our facilities assess compliance with our requirements annually, and our EHS assessment team reviews those 
assessments while also conducting more in-depth reviews  
of select facilities each year. 
Beyond meeting standard expectations, facilities implement 
their own initiatives to improve safety, decrease energy use 
and increase productivity. As facilities evaluate potential environmental initiatives, they also consider annual investment 
required, total anticipated cost savings and average pay-back 
period. We also invite facilities to report emissions reduction 
activities through internal awards and recognition processes.ENERGY AND GHG 
MANAGEMENT 
EHS 
MANAGEMENT  SYSTEM 
ENERGY, FUEL ECONOMY & EMISSIONSCATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT18KEY PERFORMANCE METRICS: GHG 
EMISSIONS, ENERGY, WATER & WASTE
ENERGY 
GHG 
Total Electricity Consumption  
Sum of purchased and 
self-generated electricity  
in million MWhRenewable Energy1 
Renewable electrical energy use/total electrical 
use x 100Energy Intensity  
Absolute gigajoules energy 
use/million dollars of sales 
and revenues 
Total Energy Consumption  
Absolute energy use  
million gigajoules 
ENERGY, FUEL ECONOMY & EMISSIONS
Reduction in absolute GHG emissions from 2018 
through 2021 32%GHG Emissions Intensity  
Absolute metric tons CO2e/
million dollars of revenue 
Absolute GHG emissions  
Million metric tons CO2e
 Scope 1  Scope 2
0.94
0.91
0.70 0.74 1.55
1.28
0.870.77 0.77
’18 ’19 ’20 ’21’3040.6
33.035.0
29.7
’18 ’19 ’20 ’21
461 445463
404
’18 ’19 ’20 ’2125.2 23.9
19.3 20.6
’18 ’19 ’20 ’212.55 2.38
2.092.25
’18 ’19 ’20 ’2117.421.2 21.024.2
’18 ’19 ’20 ’21
WATER WASTEGOAL:  
We have set a science-based Scope 1 and 2 goal to reduce absolute greenhouse gas emissions from our operations by  30% from 2018 to 2030.
GOAL:  
Implement water management strategies at 100% of facilities located 
in water high-risk areas by 2030.
11%  
Facilities achieved goal of water strategy implementation
GOAL:  
Reduce landfill intensity by 50%  from 2018 to 2030.
34%  
Reduction in landfill intensity from 2018
CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT19REGULATORY STANDARDS AND 
INDUSTRY ENGAGEMENT
Caterpillar provides U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 
Tier 4 Final, European Union Stage V or equivalent products in 
North America, Europe and select regions around the world. 
These products provide up to a 90% reduction in emissions 
(nitrogen oxides and particulate matter) compared to Tier 3 
or Stage IIIA emission standards. Product improvements in 
each segment provide customers with cost-saving benefits of 
improved fuel efficiency and fuel flexibility. Modular offerings 
allow customization of products to optimize technology and 
emissions profile that helps customers achieve their climate-related goals. 
As an industry leader, we have a talented and experienced  
team that constantly innovates to improve product emissions, 
efficiency and safety. Caterpillar continues to engage with 
regulators and other governmental entities, industry 
organizations and nongovernmental organizations around the world to share that expertise, which supports advanced 
technology and informs decisions.
ENERGY, FUEL ECONOMY & EMISSIONSCATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT20
ENERGY, FUEL ECONOMY & EMISSIONS
ENABLING 
CUSTOMER 
SUCCESS
We collaborate with dealers and customers to deliver customized 
solutions that help optimize energy use and provide training for 
operators on how to use our equipment more efficiently. For 
example, our efficiency experts can help customers evaluate and 
achieve emissions goals, reduce noise and dust, implement fuel-
saving techniques, and optimize idle management practices and 
fuel and fluid usage.
Customer Safety
Provide leadership in the safety of people  
who work in, on and around our products. 
Caterpillar’s commitment to safety goes beyond our 
employees and facilities. Caterpillar Safety Services’ 
products, solutions and expertise support companies of  
all sizes in many industries, helping achieve and sustain 
safety excellence. This team supports dealers, suppliers 
and customers using cultural assessment tools, 
continuous improvement processes, technology that 
identifies and mitigates risk, and a wealth of industry-
specific safety resources.
Partnering for Zero-Incident Performance 
Stacy and Witbeck is a construction contractor that 
specializes in complex transportation and transit projects. 
They engaged with Caterpillar Safety Services more than 
two years ago to transform their safety culture, including 
establishing safety steering teams to guide culture change. 
Because they have three regional offices, geographic 
diversity was an important consideration. By ensuring Stacy 
and Witbeck has representation from all regions on its safety 
steering teams, safety messages are shared with all 
employees. The company has since rebranded the Caterpillar safety program as its own to create buy-in and ownership. Making Safety Everyone’s Job 
Creating a lasting safety culture often requires an all-in approach — meaning everyone. Lehman-Roberts, a hot  
mix asphalt producer and paving contractor, partnered with Caterpillar Safety Services to foster ownership of safety at  
all levels of its organization. The company began measuring leadership engagement as a leading indicator and conducted  
regular surveys of its front-line workers. Says Jeremy Ramberg, Senior Vice President of Construction at  
Lehman-Roberts, “we truly believe safety is a 24/7/365 
endeavor. Now that we have a plan, we must continually communicate it. ” 
Keeping People Safe at Work and at Home 
Eighty-five percent of injuries that require medical treatment in the U.S. happen off the jobsite, according  
to the National Safety Council. That’s why the work of 
Caterpillar Safety Services extends to keeping people safe 
at home. In 2021, we launched a Corporate Safety Campaign 
to educate workers on topics like talking to kids about 
safety and developing a home safety plan. The campaign 
received over 20 million views across a range of media. 2030 GOAL
CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT21
SUPPORTING  
OUR CUSTOMERS 
Power is at the heart of our customers’ work. 
Innovation and integration are at the heart of 
ours. And we’re structured to deliver innovation 
and integration. Our engineers innovate at the 
component, system, product and worksite 
levels to develop integrated solutions to 
address customers’ specific goals — including 
lower GHG emissions, energy flexibility and 
business sustainability.
Caterpillar’s approach to the energy transition 
is to offer multiple solutions made to match our 
customers’ work. Many of our advanced power 
offerings are already at work on customer sites 
in each of our primary business segments, 
either complementing our existing products 
or as stand-alone solutions. Others are in development. In order to continue to help our 
customers achieve their climate-related goals, 
our advanced power solution development is 
focused in five technology areas:1.  LOWER-CARBON INTENSITY FUELS  
Fuel choice is one way customers can reduce greenhouse gas emissions from 
in-use products. Many Caterpillar products 
are operating on lower-carbon alternatives to 
diesel and natural gas today, including 
biodiesel, renewable diesel, and biogas.  
For example, renewable liquid fuels like 
hydrotreated vegetable oil (HVO) are being 
used in our C175-20 engines to provide stand by power at a Microsoft data center  
in Sweden. HVO can reduce carbon intensity 
by 45% to 85% versus diesel. All Caterpillar 
diesel engines are capable of operating on  
100% HVO right now. Caterpillar engines operating on natural gas blended with up to 
80% hydrogen are being demonstrated in 
power generation projects today. Turbines 
can operate on up to 100% hydrogen.  
These and other projects are helping  
to demonstrate the viability of potential  
fuel sources like hydrogen while the 
infrastructure to support availability of 
renewable hydrogen is being developed.  
In 2021, we announced that some Caterpillar 
gas generator sets are being configured to 
use 100% hydrogen on a design-to-order 
basis, and some commercial sets will be configured to operate on natural gas blended 
with up to 25% hydrogen. 
ENERGY, FUEL ECONOMY & EMISSIONS
Caterpillar’s approach to the energy 
transition is to offer multiple solutions 
made to match our customers’ work.CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT222.  HYDROGEN FUEL CELL  
Fuel cells use renewable hydrogen fuel as a 
scalable electric power source for stationary 
and mobile equipment. We announced a 
three-year project through a collaboration 
with Microsoft and Ballard Power Systems to 
demonstrate a power system incorporating 
large-format hydrogen fuel cells to produce 
reliable and sustainable backup power for 
Microsoft data centers. The project is supported and partially funded by the U.S. 
Department of Energy under the H2@Scale 
initiative and backed by the National Renewable 
Energy Lab. Caterpillar is providing the overall 
system integration, power electronics and 
controls that form the central structure of the 
power solution. In addition, Progress Rail 
announced a memorandum of understanding 
with BNSF Railway and Chevron to advance the demonstration of a locomotive powered  
by hydrogen fuel cells.  
3.  ELECTRIFICATION  
Electric drivetrains and hybrid powertrains 
employ an electric drive transmission with 
power components to improve energy 
efficiency and productivity. The D6E XE  
high-drive dozer, for example, offers up  to 35% better fuel efficiency and up to  
23% less fuel usage than previous models. 
The 795 electric drive mining truck with a 
diesel-electric drivetrain has been paired with a trolley-assist system that allows the truck 
to use electric power while traveling uphill, 
and then switch back to diesel operation if 
electricity isn’t readily available. The trolley 
system reduces fuel burn by more than  
90% while on trolley.4.  BATTERY-STORED POWER  
Batteries power work with stored electrical energy, instead of, or in addition to, an engine. 
In 2021, we debuted our first 100% battery-
powered electric drive mining machine and 
made-to-match charger. We’ve also designed 
a worksite power solution for a land-drilling 
operation that pairs a G3512 Natural Gas 
Generator with the Cat Energy Storage 
System with fully integrated controls. The combination allows the customer to make 
use of readily available field gas reducing the 
operation’s fuel costs and carbon intensity. 
5.  MICROGRIDS  
Microgrids integrate renewable energy sources 
into electric power systems. These worksite 
installations are particularly valuable in remote 
locations where renewable energy sources 
like solar or hydropower are readily available 
and electrical grids may deliver inconsistent 
power. Barrick Gold Corporation collaborated 
with Cat dealer Tractafric to install 7 .5 MW of 
battery energy storage capacity for its microgrid at the Kibali gold mine in the Democratic 
Republic of the Congo. Now operational, 
Tractafric’s solution deploys the battery energy 
storage and Cat bi-directional power inverters 
to provide grid stability, while the Cat Microgrid 
Controller seamlessly integrates up to 45 MW of 
power generated by three hydroelectric power 
stations and 36 Cat 3512 diesel generator sets.
ENERGY, FUEL ECONOMY & EMISSIONSCATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT23PRODUCT INNOVATION
Our teams are developing some of Caterpillar’s most  
fuel-efficient, lower carbon-emitting products. We began 
offering generator sets configured to use 100% hydrogen 
and automated fleets of mining machinery. Already, these 
solutions are improving safety, productivity and sustainability, 
with many product and service solutions still in development.
Here are a few of the products and collaborations  
we announced in 2021 to help our customers meet  
their bold business and sustainability goals and  
our 2030 sustainability goal for new products with  
sustainability benefits. We provide the products and services needed to  
build a better, more sustainable world.
We are proud to support our customers in their sustainability and climate journey.
ENERGY, FUEL ECONOMY & EMISSIONS
2030 GOAL
Product Emissions & Energy Efficiency
Our customers’ needs align with our own goal for 100% 
of new Caterpillar products to be more sustainable than 
the previous generation. Specifically, products that meet one or more of these four criteria: 
•  reduced w aste or improved safety for our customers 
(e.g., less maintenance waste)
•  impro ved design for rebuild/remanufacturing, providing 
our customers options to extend the life of their machine 
•  lo wer emissions and/or
•  impro ved efficiency.
That goal requires a relentless focus on product 
innovation, shared by a diverse team of driven and 
experienced Caterpillar employees.
  CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT24
COMMITMENT TO MORE SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS
Customers can reduce emissions up to 45% utilizing products with 
advanced technology such as the D6 XE, 966 XE, 972 XE, 980 XE, 982 XE, 320 or 336. Further, customers can utilize low-carbon intensity fuels in a majority of our Construction Industries products allowing for an opportunity to reduce lifecycle emissions up to 85%. What’s next? We are integrating advanced power sources into the next generation of products to help customers continue to meet their sustainability goals while also delivering the requirements of the jobsite and application. 
HELPING CONSTRUCTION CUSTOMERS REDUCE EMISSIONS TODAY
For the first time in the 10- to 12-ton medium wheel loader size class, the Cat 980 XE and 982 XE models now feature the Caterpillar designed and manufactured continuous variable transmission (CVT). Introduced in mid-2021, these medium wheel loaders include an expanded technology platform helping customers lower emissions with improved fuel efficiency and reduced maintenance costs. Deep system integration of the Cat CVT , engine, hydraulic and cooling systems significantly improve fuel efficiency up to 35%. The Next Gen Cat 966 XE and 972 XE Wheel Loaders — updated in late 2021—also improve fuel efficiencies up to 35% compared to the previous powershift models. Prolonged service intervals plus efficiencies gained through integration of the CVT powertrain result in even lower maintenance costs further reducing operating costs. BUILDING BETTER JOBSITES — CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRIES
The construction industry demands sustainable solutions that are tough, reliable and 
versatile. From navigating narrow doorways to climbing rocky hills, our range of fuel-
efficient products help our customers get the job done. 
ENERGY, FUEL ECONOMY & EMISSIONS
CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT25
DESIGNING FOR THE FUTURE 
As our customers know, the point  
of purchase is only the first step in a Caterpillar product’s lifecycle. We leverage data analytics, remote monitoring, annual product updates and other services to keep products running smoothly and build in value along the way. Our engineers design products to reduce waste and enable a more circular economy. That’s why we offer to restore products to like-new condition through our cost-saving and life-extending remanufacturing offerings and Cat Certified Rebuild programs.EXPANDING CAT COMMAND, ENHANCING  
SAFE MACHINE OPERATION
The expansion of Cat Command for Excavating and Command for 
Dozing provides remote-control operation for select Cat excavators and dozers. Removing the operator from the machine and operating environments, Cat Command enhances safe machine operation, while reducing operator fatigue to increase productivity. Deeply integrated with machine electronics, Command controls allow users to experience the same machine response as if they were operating from 
inside the cab, allowing a high level of productivity to be maintained 
from a safe distance. 
ENERGY, FUEL ECONOMY & EMISSIONSCATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT26
FUEL EFFICIENT LARGE DOZERS  
The D11 XE large dozer is our highest producing, most fuel-efficient  
Cat dozer ever. Equipped with an electric drive powertrain, it reduces  fuel consumption by up to 25% with a machine lifespan up to  20% longer. We also updated our D10 series dozers, which now  use 4% less fuel while offering a 3% boost in productivity. 
REDUCED EMISSIONS LARGE WHEEL LOADERS
The Cat 992 Large Wheel Loader has set the standard in its size class for more than 50 years. In 2021, we raised the bar with our new 992, which has been demonstrated to produce up to 32% less emissions than its 992K counterpart.
FIRST OF ITS KIND IN UNDERGROUND MINING
Recognizing the demand for a battery electric vehicle in deep, difficult-to-ventilate underground mines, we have introduced a diesel-electric underground loader, along with the forward-looking R1700 XE — a high productivity, zero exhaust emissions loader with the industry’s only onboard battery and a portable equipment charger. It will complement a first-of-its-kind battery electric, zero exhaust emissions underground truck to provide a fully electric underground load and haul solution. REVOLUTIONIZING RESOURCE INDUSTRIES
Our technology-dependent world relies on mined minerals — especially when it comes to powering 
emerging renewable energy solutions. In 2021, we focused on supporting sustainable mining with new 
battery electric and automated equipment options. We continue to evolve our portfolio through partnerships and acquisitions. 
ENERGY, FUEL ECONOMY & EMISSIONS
CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT27
CUTTING CARBON THROUGH  
CUSTOMER COLLABORATIONS
Nouveau Monde Graphite announced its plans to build the 
world’s first zero-emissions, open-pit mine in Canada. It’s  a transformative project we’re supporting as the exclusive supplier of an all-electric mining fleet. 
We’re also supporting customers BHP and Rio Tinto in their 
goals to achieve net-zero carbon emissions by 2050. BHP will have the opportunity for first access to Caterpillar zero-emissions trucks at various development stages, and hands on learning opportunities to ensure successful deployment at their sites. For Rio Tinto, the opportunity to purchase the world’s first operational deployment of approximately 35 new Caterpillar 793 zero-emissions autonomous haul trucks once development is complete.
For our customer Newmont, we entered into a strategic 
alliance which will deliver a fully connected, automated, zero carbon emitting end-to-end mining system. The agreement includes the rapid deployment of an all-electric autonomous haulage fleet to support their operations on two continents. And we’re also developing our first battery electric zero exhaust emissions underground truck, which will complete our fully electric underground load and haul solution.
CAT MINESTAR™ SOLUTIONS 
In 2021, we unveiled the first electric drive model to join our expanding Command for autonomous haulage fleet, the 794 AC. This mining truck/haul truck offers up to 8% better payload and faster speed-on-grade. We also introduced the 777G autonomous water truck, which helps operators keep access roads safe while cutting water consumption by up to 50%. ENERGY, FUEL ECONOMY & EMISSIONSCATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT28GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS REDUCTION
By combining CarbonPoint Solutions’ patented technology with 
Caterpillar Oil & Gas solutions, we can further reduce GHG emissions while helping our customers meet their climate-related objectives. CarbonPoint Solutions provides technology to concentrate and capture CO2 for utilization or sequestration, with applications including engines and turbines at oil and gas sites, distributed power and industrial plants, and waste-to-energy sites.POWERING THE ENERGY TRANSITION — ENERGY & TRANSPORTATION 
As industries from transportation to technology embrace renewable energy, we’re delivering 
market-driven solutions to meet customers’ sustainability needs. We continue to evolve our 
portfolio through partnerships and acquisitions. 
HYDROGEN DEMONSTRATION
We’re working with Chevron to develop hydrogen demonstration 
projects in transportation and stationary power applications, including prime power. Together, we are confirming the feasibility and performance of hydrogen for use as a commercially viable alternative to traditional fuels for line-haul rail and marine vessels. As part of the collaboration, we are also working to demonstrate a hydrogen-fueled locomotive and associated hydrogen-fueling infrastructure.
ENERGY, FUEL ECONOMY & EMISSIONS
CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT29
HYDROGEN-FUELED GENSETS
In response to customer interest in hydrogen, we announced that 
some Caterpillar gas generator sets are being configured to use  100% hydrogen on a design-to-order basis. We’ll also have some commercial sets configured to operate on natural gas blended with up to 25% hydrogen.
EXPLORING LOW-CARBON SOLUTIONS 
We entered a memorandum of understanding with Certarus to explore opportunities to bring lower carbon energy solutions to our customers. We are working together to advance the use of lower carbon fuels, including conventional and renewable natural gas and hydrogen.
PROVIDING SUSTAINABLE ENERGY SOLUTIONS AROUND THE WORLD
We are providing companies and communities around the world with innovative, sustainable solutions. In Sweden, Microsoft is progressing toward its carbon-negative goal with new data centers powered by 100% renewable energy. Yet, in case of maintenance or a grid outage, they need sustainable standby power. Enter our Cat C175-20 and C18 generator sets, which run on locally refined Preem Evolution Diesel Plus — the world’s first eco-labeled liquid fuel, which contains over 50% renewable raw materials. 
In Rwanda, methane gas at the bottom of Lake Kivu posed a serious risk of rising to the surface 
and triggering a gas explosion. In response, we partnered with local private and public officials to deliver 19 MWM branded gas generator sets that are transforming the methane gas-water mixture into a sustainable energy resource. The power plant supported by the generator sets  will go live in 2022.
ENERGY, FUEL ECONOMY & EMISSIONSCATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT30
Innovation is Key to a 
Sustainable Future 
Our 97-year history of sustainable innovation fuels 
our vision and determination to enable our customers’ 
success. Our goal to make each product more 
sustainable than the last has no finish line.  
We’re thinking bigger and broader about the solutions 
we can deliver, and we’re looking further into the 
future to anticipate the challenges and opportunities ahead. Our commitment to sustainability goes beyond 
reducing emissions, and includes prioritizing safety, 
reducing waste and fulfilling society’s need for infrastructure. We are inspired to deliver for our 
customers and communities each step of the way. 
Together, we can build a better, more sustainable world for generations to come.ENERGY, FUEL ECONOMY & EMISSIONSCATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT31
2021 HIGHLIGHTS
  Continued to suppor t the Responsible Minerals  
Initiative to encourage greater supply chain 
transparency around conflict minerals 
  With a strong base of di verse suppliers  
already in place, we are investing in tools  that will help identify diverse suppliers for  
new business opportunitiesCATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT32
Caterpillar responsibly sources the raw materials 
used to build our products.
As the world’s leading manufacturer of construction and mining equipment, off-highway diesel and natural 
gas engines, industrial gas turbines and diesel-electric locomotives, Caterpillar responsibly sources the raw 
materials used to build our products. 
MATERIAL PROCUREMENT
Our supply base includes approximately 27 ,000 suppliers around the world providing raw materials and 
manufactured components across broad categories and technologies for aftermarket and production parts. 
These purchases include a variety of unformed steel products, cut or formed to shape and machined in our 
facilities; steel and iron castings and forgings, machined to final specification; and finished components, 
made to Caterpillar or supplier-developed specifications. We also help keep those materials in circulation for 
as long as possible.
We maintain global strategic sourcing models to meet our global facilities’ production needs while building 
long-term supplier relationships. We look for suppliers and business allies who demonstrate strong values and commit to the ethical principles outlined in the Caterpillar Supplier Code of Conduct. We also expect 
suppliers to comply with the sound business practices we embrace, follow the law and conduct activities  
in a manner that respects human rights.
Learn more about the Caterpillar  
Supplier Code of ConductCATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT33Supplier diversity continues to be a focus for our strategic procurement team. With a 
strong base of diverse suppliers already in place, we are investing in tools that will help 
identify diverse suppliers for new business opportunities. This is key to delivering on our 
commitment to foster and increase business purchases with diverse suppliers.
Many considerations go into the responsible sourcing of minerals used in our products. 
Tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold (3TG), collectively known as “conflict minerals, ” have 
been associated with human rights violations in the Democratic Republic of the Congo 
and adjoining countries. Our Conflict Minerals Position Statement contains clear 
expectations for our suppliers regarding their sourcing of these materials. We have 
established a process that identifies areas of risk on an ongoing basis, and corrective 
action plans to mitigate or remediate such risks relating to conflict minerals. A supplier’s 
failure to take corrective actions when required may lead to additional actions, up to and including the termination of our business relationship.
Caterpillar supports the Responsible Minerals Initiative to help influence smelters’ 
engagement to support supply chain transparency and leverage industry collaboration 
toward greater business intelligence. Year over year, we strive for an increased supplier 
response rate, emphasizing 3TG priority suppliers. Caterpillar also publicly discloses the 
results of our Reasonable Country of Origin process and any necessary due diligence in Form SD and Conflict Minerals Report as required by the Securities and Exchange 
Commission, which discloses metrics and results of inquiries we execute within our 
first-tier suppliers. In these reports, we describe our due diligence efforts, including risk 
mitigation and process improvements we expect to implement in the following year.SUPPLIER DIVERSITY
RESPONSIBLE MINERAL 
SOURCING 
MATERIAL PROCUREMENT
Learn more about our  
Conflict Minerals Position StatementCATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT34
2021 HIGHLIGHTS
  Introduced new Cat R eman parts that  
supported more than 400 unique engine  
and machine models
  1 27 million pounds of end-of-life material 
returned in 2021CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT35
Nearly 50 years of providing  
high-quality equipment  
with lower owning and  
operating costs.
Caterpillar’s remanufacturing and rebuild operations have provided 
customers with quality equipment that helps deliver lower owning  
and operating costs.
Our engineering and manufacturing expertise, field population and dealer organization 
make it possible for us to offer remanufactured products and components through many 
of our brands and rebuild options through our dealers.
Remanufacturing and rebuild options deliver multiple sustainability benefits and help 
Caterpillar contribute to the circular economy. Through these activities, we recycle 
millions of pounds of end-of-life products annually. Because we are in the business of 
returning end-of-life components to like-new condition, we reduce waste and minimize the need for raw material, energy and water associated with producing new parts. 
Through remanufacturing, we contribute to sustainable development — extending the 
value of the energy and water consumed in a component’s original manufacture and 
keeping high-value nonrenewable resources in circulation for multiple lifecycles. The 
company’s enterprise strategy focused heavily on increasing services that offer superior 
customer value. With steady customer demand for remanufacturing products and 
components, we are well-positioned to help achieve this enterprise goal. Reducing waste 
through remanufacturing and rebuilding can provide benefits to the environment, 
customers and the enterprise.
REMANUFACTURING
127 million lbs  
of material returned in 20217,  888% 
end-of-life eligible returns collected7,  8
Sustainability Benefits of  
Remanufacturing* 
 85% 
less energy use 
 61% 
less GHG emissions 
 85% 
less material used 
 85% 
less water used  
2030 GOAL
Remanufacturing
Increase sales and revenues 
from remanufacturing offerings by 
25%  from 2018 to 2030.
*  Re presents environmental impacts from remanufacturing 
process for a Cat Reman engine and components as 
compared to manufacturing a new, comparable engine and components. Does not include impacts elsewhere in our value chain. Based on a 2006 study done by Caterpillar on the 3412 cylinder head.N/A2%-14% -3%25%
’18 ’19 ’20 ’21 ’30
CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT36Caterpillar machines and components are 
built to last. They are designed to withstand heavy-duty operating conditions and to be restored and used for multiple lifecycles.
Designing products and components to be used throughout multiple service lifecycles  
is the essence of our remanufacturing approach, which takes many different forms  
across our brands. REMANUFACTURING ACROSS 
OUR BRANDS 
CAT REMAN  
The Cat Reman process returns component products at the end of their initial 
serviceable lives to like-new condition. Engineers use design guidelines to build key 
products with remanufacturing in mind, ensuring they are highly durable, even under 
heavy-use conditions. When a component reaches the end of its initial serviceable life, 
dealers can return the used component, referred to as core, to Caterpillar, where it 
is cleaned, inspected, salvaged and remanufactured to original factory specifications, 
including any relevant engineering updates. Cat Reman uses state-of-the-art salvage 
techniques, strict reuse guidelines, and advanced remanufacturing processes and quality 
controls to ensure remanufactured products provide like-new performance, coupled with 
a same-as-new warranty. We charge a deposit along with the purchase of each Cat Reman product, which gives customers an incentive to return their used components so that we 
can continue to give materials new life. 
REMANUFACTURING
CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT37SOLAR TURBINES  
Solar Turbines remanufactures turbine components and gas 
compressor components. Through advanced remanufacturing 
processes, components are returned to like-new condition.  
Once components have been certified, they are placed back  
into service, typically through an exchange program. This allows 
customers to exchange major components in days rather than 
months of downtime. The exchange equipment is tested and 
certified to the same performance and emission specifications,  
as well as implementing the latest design improvements. Solar 
continues to expand remanufacturing capabilities and invest in condition-based engineering, which allows for more finite 
determination of remaining useful life. Condition-based engineering 
improves reman content and extends overhaul cycles while ensuring 
quality at every step. Solar continues to invest in facilities around 
the world to expand capabilities with the goal of reducing 
transportation and provide a faster customer response.
PROGRESS RAIL  
Progress Rail extends the use of existing locomotives by 
providing rebuild, overhaul and repower options. These 
modernization programs upgrade electrical and mechanical 
systems and other components to extend locomotive life by  
10 years or more with appropriate maintenance. Repower 
upgrades meet or exceed current emissions standards in certain 
regions while improving reliability, reducing exhaust emissions 
and maximizing fuel economy. We also offer reconditioning or 
repair services for freight cars and a wide range of components, 
ensuring value-added returns are available for customers, reducing annual maintenance cost. When locomotives and 
railcars finally reach the end of their usable lives, they can  
be recycled for other uses through Progress Rail’s scrap 
management services. We also provide rail take-up and 
inspection services, including grading of previously used rail, 
which is then recycled, repurposed for other non-rail uses or 
relayed into track. In 2021, Progress Rail processed about  
95,000 gross tons of material.  
REMANUFACTURING
CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT38CATERPILLAR ENERGY SOLUTIONS X-CHANGE 
The X-Change program is a parts replacement program for 
medium and large MWM branded engines and a perfect example 
of circular economy principles. By remanufacturing and selling 
X-Change parts, engines and gensets, customers benefit from 
quick and cost-effective overhauls and repair services on-site. 
This maximizes uptime of the power and heat-generating power 
plants for both MWM and Cat branded product lines. 
The replaced parts that reached the initial serviceable lifetime 
are returned to Caterpillar Energy Solutions where they are 
cleaned, disassembled, inspected and remanufactured to like-
new condition. Technology updates that reduce emissions and 
increase efficiency while improving reliability are included. In this 
way significant lifecycle extension, including greenhouse gas 
emission reduction, is achieved.
CATERPILLAR DEFENSE 
During disaster response or aid delivery, amid surge or rapid deployment, in wartime or peacetime, Caterpillar Defense 
responds to each operation’s needs, including offering solutions 
that extend the lifecycle of products. Through the military 
Service Life Extension Program, Cat dealers give machines  
a complete second lifecycle at a fraction of new replacement cost. We also have Caterpillar trained, qualified technicians who 
conduct repairs on military bases and customize replacement 
parts to local needs. 
CAT CERTIFIED REBUILD  
In the same spirit as Cat Reman, Cat Certified Rebuild programs increase the lifespan of 
equipment by providing customers with product updates at a fraction of the cost of buying 
a new machine, enabling us to extend the life of materials. 
A complete Cat Certified Rebuild includes more than 350 tests and inspections, automatic 
replacement or reconditioning of approximately 7 ,000 parts and a like-new machine 
warranty. Trained dealer service professionals perform rebuild work using genuine 
equipment and parts while incorporating the latest engineering updates. Caterpillar provides information, data, training and service tools to help dealers decide which parts to 
reuse to achieve the expected longevity of rebuilt components. Since 1985, Caterpillar and 
our dealers have rebuilt more than 37 ,000 machines, powertrains and components.
REMANUFACTURING
CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT39
2021 HIGHLIGHTS
  Deli vered our best recordable injury frequency 
(RIF) performance on record for the third year  
in a row
  Of fered 1,720 new virtual training courses on 
topics ranging from safety to lean to leadership with more than 1.8 million courses completed 
  Increased or maintained scores on our employee 
experience and engagement surveys CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT40
We strive to create an environment where our 
employees can reach their full potential.
Our Values-driven culture reflects our commitment to the health, safety, integrity, excellence, teamwork and  
diverse backgrounds and experiences of our 107,700 employees. Our values unite us across our many cultural, 
language, geographic and business boundaries, making us a stronger team. We encourage employee feedback  
and continually make improvements to help our team members do the work that matters.
PEOPLECATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT41
OUR GLOBAL RESPONSE TO THE PANDEMIC 
Protecting the health of our employees is ingrained in Caterpillar’s 
culture at every level. In 2021, our safety-first culture led the company’s 
continued response to the COVID-19 pandemic by maintaining a global, 
enterprise-level task force comprised of business, environmental, 
health and safety (EHS), medical, human resources, facilities, legal 
and communications leaders. The task force further strengthened our 
response to the existing enhanced safety measures and improved 
benefits by increasing vaccination opportunities in many workplaces 
and paid time off to receive vaccinations away from work. The task 
force also developed and implemented a playbook for our businesses to support a limited, voluntary return to the workplace for some of our 
employees who were working remotely. This helped ensure employees 
returned to the office in a consistent and safe manner.  
Supervisors, managers and leaders in every region of the world delivered 
frequent communication with employees to help facilitate resiliency 
throughout the year. In return, our employees responded by focusing on driving business results, despite the challenges created by  
the pandemic. 
In 2020, the Caterpillar Foundation donated $10 million to support 
response efforts and organizations directly impacted by COVID-19.  
The Foundation donated an additional $3.8 million in 2021 to relief 
organizations to provide essential medical supplies and support increased access to vaccines. In addition, many employees also 
continued to help fight the spread of COVID-19 in the communities 
where they live and work through donations to local families and 
volunteer work supporting local efforts. 
CREATING ACCOUNTABILITY  
FOR EVERYONE  
We track enterprise metrics and targets 
as well as individual business unit goals. 
Common enterprise targets create structure 
and accountability, while business unit 
strategies focused on safety culture 
and involving leaders and employees in 
developing their culture create opportunities 
for innovation. We drive clear accountability 
and have an EHS management system, 
as described on page 17 , that establishes 
expectations worldwide. From day one, we 
provide every newly hired employee with the 
knowledge they need to perform their job 
safely, and leaders regularly receive training on 
their role in safety compliance and setting an 
example for our strong safety culture. These 
actions help us manage risk while creating a 
culture focused on worker health and safety. PEOPLE
EMPLOYEE HEALTH 
AND SAFETY
The health and safety of our employees is an important focus at Caterpillar, and 
we strive to continuously reduce injuries. Safety is forefront in our strategic goals 
and metrics, with visible commitment and support by leadership. In addition 
to metrics, we believe the best way to drive a culture of safety excellence is to 
create an environment where our team is accountable for their own safety and 
the safety of those around them. We relentlessly strive to ensure our workforce 
returns home safely every day.CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT42
OUR PROGRESS REPORT CARD  
In 2021, driven on by our relentless focus on safety, we delivered 
our best recordable injury frequency (RIF) performance on record 
for the third year in a row. We improved our RIF rate by 23% 
from our 2018 base year and by 2% from the previous year. We 
accomplished this result while leading our organization through 
the global pandemic, effectively deploying enhanced safety 
measures and encouraging and making available vaccinations. 
While we are proud of our progress, we are also very saddened 
that a contractor suffered a fatal workplace injury at one of our 
facilities in 2021 . This incident highlights that safety must always remain the number one focus of all workers, and it further 
strengthens our safety resolve.SETTING THE BAR HIGHER  
As we pursue our 2030 goal, business unit leaders are engaged 
in the evolution of our safety vision. Our plan includes further 
strengthening our safety-first culture by continuing to involve 
employees in developing solutions, listening to their concerns 
and ensuring they feel comfortable talking to their peers about 
potential hazards or unsafe behaviors. Continuing to provide 
safety learning opportunities for our leaders, safety professionals 
and employees will enhance our efforts. We know the journey 
ahead will be challenging but vitally important as we continue to 
prioritize the safety of our employees and their families.
Here are some ways our various locations have helped us 
achieve a safer work environment.
United States 
Safety is a priority starting on day one. Within our Large Power Systems Division in East Peoria, Illinois, we incorporated 
feedback from operators, manufacturing engineers and subject 
matter experts to define the key skills for each job, improved 
standard work and provided job-specific training by validated 
trainers to certify new hires prior to releasing them to perform 
their jobs. Since this change, recordable injuries to newly hired 
employees have been dramatically reduced.
Europe  
Practicing good ergonomics protects employees against  injury. Our Grenoble, France, facility implemented several 
innovative approaches to ergonomic design. This included 
evaluation of traditional ergonomic risks, as well as an 
assessment of the work environment within the area and 
operator feedback about the work. These approaches identified 
several ways we could use technology to perform a task and 
protect employees from potential harm. This facility recently 
celebrated one year free from ergonomic-related injuries.
PEOPLE
2030 GOAL
Safety
We aspire to prevent all  
injuries and will further our 
industry-leading safety results by reducing RIF by 
50%  from  
2018 to 2030. 
Recordable Injury Frequency (RIF)
Recordable injuries per 200,000 
hours worked 
0.53
0.43 0.42 0.41
0.27
’18 ’19 ’20 ’21 ’30
CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT43India 
The Caterpillar facility in Thiruvallur produces structures for 
off-highway truck frames. We formed a diverse team of line 
operators, line section facilitators, section managers, manufacturing 
engineers and the operations excellence team to review the risk 
analyses for the various stations. As a result of the project, we 
implemented a collaborative robot in two stations to eliminate fall 
risks, bending at the waist, pinch points and repetitive motions  
of loading and unloading the station manually. In another station, 
we installed a common adapter to eliminate the need for manual 
change-out in between models, reducing the risk for pinch points, slips and trips, as well as grip force injuries. These improvements 
not only improved safety, but they also engaged employees with 
the workstations to identify issues and develop solutions. Safety, 
efficiency and employee fatigue all improved substantially.
PEOPLE
Global  
The development of our Product Support & Logistics Division’s 
Safety Application Suite has allowed for a one-stop location 
where facilities can access all available safety resources in 
a multitude of languages. Translated materials have helped 
drive a better understanding of the materials and improved the 
quality of data accrued from non-English speaking locations. We 
increased participation now that the suite is accessible from any 
mobile device or computer. The project has increased diversity 
and inclusion within our safety programs and provided our sites 
with an enhanced ability to engage directly with employees, regardless of location or language.CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT44TALENT  
DEVELOPMENT  
AND TRAINING
Our employees are encouraged to explore opportunities, pursue their interests and 
enjoy many fulfilling careers. We make this investment in employee development to  
help our business meet its ever-changing needs. Through continual learning, our 
employees will help us innovate and drive business results.   
Beginning with onboarding and with each assignment, our employees have access  
to robust learning and development resources. Many of our employees enjoy multiple 
career opportunities within our businesses, and we credit the hands-on learning 
opportunities we provide as well as our focus on development and career planning. 
As the pandemic continued for a second year, on-demand and virtual learning became 
central to our menu of courses. We are regularly expanding the options on critical  
topics — ranging from safety to lean to leadership — so employees can access their 
desired training whenever and wherever they need it. We also continue to offer our 
production employees access to certification programs, ongoing learning and career 
development opportunities.
Virtual Learning by the Numbers
1,720   
new programs
>1.8M   
courses completed
71%   
apply learning to their work
PEOPLE
CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT45
In addition to online learning, Caterpillar offers development opportunities for employees 
to lead challenging projects, take on stretch assignments, serve on committees, join 
Employee Resources Groups, work with mentors and job shadow others — all aimed  
at fostering collaboration and learning. With a business case for investment and their 
manager’s sponsorship, hundreds of employees each year deepen their knowledge, 
pursue new career paths and add to their credentials by taking advantage of our tuition 
assistance program, which covers most of their expenses for tuition, fees and books.
Through deliberate succession planning, we identify and prepare leaders for new 
opportunities across the company. Intentional development planning helps our 
employees identify and work on the skills they need now and in the future.
DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITIES 
•  Customized training programs in Acuna, Mexico, met the increase in demand for 
welders by developing locally customized training programs aimed at the need for 
more specialized workers. Through a partnership with CONALEP , a local technical 
school, we developed a customized training program that increased class sizes and 
reduced the lead time for new welders to join our production line, resulting in 117 new 
welding certifications.
•  Developing front-line leaders is an increased focus through a new Leadership Development (LD) program called LD200, based on real-life challenges and opportunities 
leaders face. The program is offered through on-demand and in-person sessions. In 2022, an 
estimated 2,000 leaders in multiple countries will experience the inaugural program. INVESTED IN EARLY CAREER TALENT
  W e hire high school and college students directly into 
student programs that provide in-person and experiential learning to sharpen their skills and develop hands-on 
knowledge of our business.
  In 2021, w e welcomed more than 300 interns from  
79 colleges and universities to our Caterpillar family and provided opportunities aligned with their career interest 
and/or field of academic study. 
 
Nearly
25%  of our 2021 intern 
class were returning interns.PEOPLE
CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT46DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITIES (continued) 
•  Sharing best practices is one of the best ways our employees learn. In 2021, 
Caterpillar’s Excavation Division held a competition between European work tools and 
fabrication facilities where teams competed based on their ideas for implementing 
lean approaches to their work. Throughout the competition, facilities shared their best 
practices for operational and transactional lean approaches, resulting in improvements 
like inventory optimization, re-work time reduction and higher production stability.
•  Intentional career planning  and self-directed learning helps our employees own  
their careers. We invested in establishing dynamic career development models 
targeted at attracting and retaining our commercial workforce. Global leaders 
representing 18 divisions partnered together to establish the core skills, competencies 
and career paths for marketing, sales and product support employees. This gave the 
6,000 employees in these roles a clear roadmap to develop and advance their careers.  
•  Speaking up about diversity and inclusion  is critical to our inclusive culture. Solar 
employees and leaders participated in a series of interactive, virtual diversity and 
inclusion training sessions covering topics on the importance of diversity, equity and 
inclusion to business success and tips for engaging in meaningful diversity dialogue.
•  A new onboarding program  lays the foundation for success for anyone joining the 
Construction Industries Services Division. The four-month program is offered to internal 
transfers or external hires to set the tone for the employee experience, help drive 
networking across departments and bring the division strategy to life through group 
discussion. The 150 employees who completed the program in 2021 report greater 
understanding of our strategy, development expectations and customer needs, as well 
as a strong feeling of inclusion within the division. Since this program was offered, 
the employee experience score on the division’s annual Employee Insights Survey for 
employees with less than one year of service increased to 92%.
•  Developing leaders locally  is a focus in our China facilities and offices. The China 
Leadership Development Program is aimed at developing leaders from within and includes classroom training, external visits to other facilities and hands-on learning 
projects. Our leaders teaching leaders approach allows participants to interact with 
senior leaders from every aspect of our business to improve their business acumen, 
understand enterprise priorities, enable cross function sharing and encourage 
innovation. To date, over 175 leaders have completed the program.PEOPLE
CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT47HEALTH AND WELL-BEING 
At Caterpillar, our success starts with 
our people. Our focus on health and 
well-being represents Caterpillar’s 
commitment to build and sustain a high-
performing team. We demonstrate this 
commitment to our employees and the 
extended Caterpillar family by offering a 
wide range of benefits and programs that 
support their health and well-being.
When our employees are healthy, they 
perform their best at work, at home 
and in their communities. Our Total 
Health strategy focuses on all aspects of 
well-being, including financial, physical 
and emotional/social health as well as 
promoting a sense of purpose.
Major programs include:
  Monthly U .S. Financial Health webinar 
series — Covers topics that help our 
employees budget, save, plan and 
invest for their futures.
  T otal Health Highlights campaign —  
Builds awareness and provides education on a variety of well-being 
topics. Helpful resources are published 
online and delivered worldwide within 
the workplace through our “Total 
Health Champions, ” a global network 
of employee volunteers who share 
their passion for wellness. This team 
coordinates programs and events that educate and emphasize the importance 
of good health.
  Emplo yee Assistance Program (EAP) 
— A free, voluntary and completely 
confidential service provided to 
employees and their eligible family 
members to help meet many challenges 
at home and work. The EAP also aims 
to engage employees while removing 
the stigma surrounding mental health 
by delivering webinars, web content 
and educational materials on a variety  
of health emotional/social health topics.
OUR TOTAL REWARDS OFFERINGS
Our commitment to health and well-being not only includes our employees, 
but also their families. We offer a variety 
of benefits to both our full- and part-
time global workforce that extends to 
employees’ spouses, same-sex domestic 
partners and dependents. Benefits vary 
by country, but may include:

  Healthcare co verage including medical, 
prescription drug, dental, vision and 
preventive exams and testing
 Tax-savings accounts
  P arental and adoption leave and 
infertility benefits
 Life and disability insurance Retirement savings plans

  Time-of f benefits, including vacation, 
holiday and paid volunteer time
  A dditional voluntary benefits, such as 
accident insurance, legal services and 
identify theft
 Employee Assistance ProgramHigh Employee Utilization of  
Our Well-Being Offerings
125  employees, on average, 
attended our monthly U.S. 
Financial Health webinars — 
and attendance keeps growing. 
2,000  employees attended 
one of 26 training sessions  
on becoming a Mental Health  
First Responder.
300  employees in the  
UK participated in a month-  
long, at-home physical  
fitness program and over  
150 employees regularly attended webinars on various mental health topics.
Over 
750  employees 
participated in our  
Prepare for Returning to  
the Workplace webinar.  
PEOPLECATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT48EMPLOYEE EXPERIENCE
Our employees know best how to deliver innovative solutions and their perspectives 
and suggestions matter. We make it a priority to solicit employee feedback so we can 
improve upon their work experience and create an environment where everyone can 
do their best work.
Each year, every employee is invited to participate in the confidential Employee Insights 
Survey and provide feedback and perspectives. Though 2021 was another challenging 
year, we saw leaders committed to listening to employee needs. Leaders partnered with employees and created an even stronger employee experience. 
We embrace continuous improvement and do so by developing robust action plans 
and continuous, year-round listening approaches. In 2021, Resource Industries 
conducted nearly 300 “Stay Interviews” with employees to understand how they feel 
about their work environment, collaboration with peers, career development, why they 
stay with Caterpillar and how we can make their experience even better. 
PEOPLE
2021 Annual Employee Insights 
Survey Snapshot
82%   
response rate 
Y ear over year, we have 
increased   
or maintained scores on  
every index.Scores were above benchmark 
on almost all survey items.
Inclusion index scores have 
increased   
for four years in a row.
CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT49
PEOPLE
HUMAN RIGHTS
We are proud of our journey and continue to take actions and make important progress 
to create an even more diverse and inclusive workforce. In our Resource Industries 
segment, for example, a partnership with our Women’s Initiative Network employee 
resource group generated the ability to achieve 100% diverse interview panels, which 
increased the percentage of diverse candidates hired by Resource Industries. We invite 
you to learn more about our progress by visiting our Diversity & Inclusion webpage.DIVERSITY AND 
INCLUSION 
Visit our Diversity & Inclusion webpage
In accordance with Our Values in Action, Caterpillar is committed 
to respecting internationally recognized human rights principles 
throughout our global operations. Our Code of Conduct, Human 
Rights Policy, Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement and 
Supplier Code of Conduct represent our commitment that we 
will not condone and strive to eliminate all forms of forced labor, 
child labor and discrimination in the workplace. We also commit 
to establish safe and healthy working conditions. We value 
diversity as a foundational key to the success of our business 
strategy and seek to compensate our employees fairly and competitively where they work. We respect the principles of 
freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. We 
have compassion for all persons affected by conflict wherever 
it occurs and we expect our directors, officers, employees, 
business partners and suppliers, including in conflict-affected 
areas, to comply with all applicable laws and conduct activities in 
a manner that respects human rights.
Read our Human Rights PolicyCATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT50
2021 HIGHLIGHTS
  In vested more than $41 million in 2021 to  
improve the lives of people in 39 countries
  P articipated in a campaign to establish natural 
infrastructure by planting 290,000 trees in  
95 communitiesCATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT51
Sinc e 1952, the Caterpillar 
Foundation has been on a 
mission to improve lives by focusing on the human, natural and basic services infrastructure needed for individuals to thrive and 
communities to be resil ient.
Caterpillar works alongside our dealers and 
customers to build the social infrastructure needed  
to make the world run. Our success contributes to  
the stability of regions around the world. 
CATERPILLAR 
FOUNDATION 
Through the Caterpillar Foundation we have been on a mission 
to improve lives since its founding in 1952. As a Foundation, we 
focus on the human, natural and basic services infrastructure 
needed for individuals to thrive and communities to be resilient. 
Our philanthropic purpose builds on Caterpillar’s historical legacy 
of improving lives — finding new ways to tackle modern issues 
and identifying room for continuous improvement. 
FOUNDATION FOCUS AREAS 
The Foundation invests in the skills people need to join the 
modern workforce, and the natural and vital infrastructure they 
rely upon. 
Empowering the workforce of the 21st century  
We invest in skills development and STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) to equip people 
with the skills required for tomorrow’s economy, putting 
them on a path to prosperity. Skills-based education leads 
to better jobs, and better jobs lead to better futures.
Building resilient communities to address critical 
environmental challenges  
We support natural infrastructure development and  
access to basic services, such as water resource 
management and energy.
Giving back in our communities  
Caterpillar’s global team helps build a better world using 
their passion, time and talent to give back, maximizing 
impact through the Foundation’s disaster and matching gifts 
programs, United Way and volunteer efforts.
PHILANTHROPY
Nearly $851 million invested in global 
communities since 1952.
CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT52
ESTABLISHING 
NATURAL 
INFRASTRUCTURE
The ‘It Starts with a Tree’ campaign aims to plant 290,000 trees in 95 communities. 
Along with Foundation partner One Tree Planted, we are addressing individual 
communities’ natural and economic infrastructure needs on a global scale. This 
innovative campaign serves as a launch pad to establish natural infrastructure  
that protects and strengthens communities.
Some of these impacted communities include the 40 beekeepers who work in the 
Biobio region near Santiago, Chile, whose local businesses suffered due to recent brushfires. With 4,000 new trees planted, the habitat will be protected — allowing 
for the reproduction of bees. This will enable the beekeepers of Santiago to 
reactivate their businesses, putting them on a path toward economic success and 
financial independence.In 2021, the Foundation invested 
more than $41 million helping 
improve the lives of people in 
more than 39 countries around the world. Together with the help of 
the Foundation’s partners:
  3.3 million individuals  
will have better access to 
industry-aligned STEM education programs.
  Over 530,0 00 acres  will be 
restored through reforestation, ecosystem restoration and  more sustainable land use management practices.
  Nearly 15,000 individuals  
are projected to enter the workforce after successful completion of technical and vocational education programs.
  Approximately 500 water 
system interventions   
are projected to be installed  to connect communities with reliable water sources.
  Around 12,000 individuals  
will earn one or more industry-recognized credentials.
  Mor e than 2.5 million  short 
tons of carbon are projected to be removed, sequestered  
or captured.
  Over $4 million  in disaster 
damage costs reduced.
PHILANTHROPYCATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT53CREATING  
THE WORKFORCE OF THE 21ST CENTURY
To thrive in our changing world, individuals and communities 
need the skills, resources and services. Investments in workforce 
readiness and STEM aim to create human infrastructure through 
an empowered, prepared and skilled workforce.
Across Latin America, unemployment and a lack of education 
among young people are critical problems. Through a program 
that teaches students skills that align with the most relevant and profitable in-country sectors such as advanced manufacturing, 
agriculture, automotive, IT and logistics, Adriana enrolled in 
a welding course provided by International Youth Foundation. 
She was hired by a company that valued her skills and abilities 
and is now happily working as a computer numerical controlled 
machine operator. DISASTER 
RELIEF 
The Caterpillar Foundation is a member of the Red Cross 
Annual Disaster Giving Program (ADGP). Our $1 million  
annual global investment helps provide a funding base,  
allowing the Red Cross to provide immediate relief to those 
impacted by disasters. This model ensures that the Red  
Cross has funds to prepare for disasters before they occur.  
In addition to the Foundation’s initial investment, Caterpillar 
team members eager to help in a time of crisis contributed 
more than $20,000, which was matched by the Foundation  
to make an even greater impact.
The Foundation’s support enabled the Red Cross to respond to 
disasters such as the Mayfield, Kentucky area when tornadoes 
ripped through the center of the United States, catastrophic 
flooding in several European countries and the Category 4 
hurricane that made landfall near Port Fourchon, Louisiana.
PHILANTHROPY
Coordinated effort by Caterpillar, Caterpillar Foundation, Assist International 
and Convoy of Hope resulted in a donation of 100 generators for those impacted 
by the tornadoes in Mayfield, Kentucky.Caterpillar Foundation partner  
International Youth Foundation training  students for 21st century workforce. CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT54
Caterpillar believes communities are strongest when there is equality for all. Partnerships with the Legal Defense 
Fund, U.S. Chamber of Commerce Foundation and Aspen Institute support community programs that address 
the destructive effects of racism and the fight for equal justice. Through its partnerships and initiatives, the 
Foundation is creating pathways for underserved and underresourced individuals to gain 21st century jobs 
through workforce readiness, vocational training and STEM education. 
In 2021, the Foundation announced the creation of the first-ever Caterpillar Curator of African American 
Innovation and Entrepreneurship at the Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture 
(NMAAHC). Through a $2 million grant, this position will direct initiatives to help NMAAHC advance new conversations and understanding of diversity and inclusion through the lens of African American innovation  
and entrepreneurship in science and technology. PHILANTHROPY
SOCIAL JUSTICE 
 
CATERPILLAR FOUNDATION AND  
THE UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE  DEVELOPMENT GOALS (UN SDGs)
The Caterpillar Foundation’s investments 
align with several of the UN SDGs. The 
Caterpillar Foundation works to build resilient 
communities in the places where we live and 
work and where there is need.
CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT55
CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT56
ESG DATA
2018 2019 2020 2021GOAL 
2030PERSPECTIVE
PEOPLE DATA
Total number of employees 104,000 102,300 97,300 107,700 N/A
Number of employees outside U.S. 59,400 58,700 57,000 63,400 N/A
Women in enterprise 20% 20% 20% 23%29%
(2022) Caterpillar is committed to increasing female representation throughout 
the company and has an aspirational goal of 29% women in the enterprise and 25% women in leadership.
Women in leadership 19% 20% 20% 21%25%
(2022)
Collective bargaining% of employees covered 40% 41% 40% 40% N/AWe respect the right of our employees to form, join or not to join any lawful organization of their choice without fear of reprisal, interference, intimidation or harassment. We believe it is important for individuals to exercise that right with the benefit of available information.
SAFETY
Lost-time case frequency rate  
(LTCFR) /A/   
Worker-related injuries resulting in lost time per 200,000 hours worked0.16 0.15 0.20 0.18 N/AOver the last two years, our lost-time case frequency has been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Our continued focus on enhanced safety measures during the pandemic resulted in a 10% improvement from 2020 to 2021.
Recordable injury frequency  
(RIF) /A/   
Recordable injuries per 200,000  
hours worked0.53 0.43 0.42 0.41 0.265We strive for all team members to go home safely, every day. In 2021, thanks to our relentless focus on safety, we delivered our best recordable injury frequency (RIF) performance on record, improving  
on our previous record set in 2020. We have improved our RIF rate by 23% from our 2018 base year, and by 2% from 2020 to 2021. 
Employee fatalities 1 0 0 0 N/AWhile we are proud of our safety progress, we are also very saddened that a contractor suffered a fatal workplace incident at one of our facilities in 2021. These incidents highlight that safety must always remain the number one focus of all our workers.
Contractor fatalities 1 1 2 1 N/A
ENERGY — OPERATIONS
Total energy use / A/  
gigajoules25,160,000 23,950,000 19,340,000 20,600,000 N/A
We remain focused on improving energy efficiency and reducing energy consumption.
Total electricity / A/ 
million MWh2.55 2.38 2.09 2.25 N/A
N/A = Not Applicable    
/A/ Data assured by ERM CVS. Please see our data assurance statement .CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT572018 2019 2020 2021GOAL 
2030PERSPECTIVE
ENERGY — OPERATIONS (continued)
Grid electricity  
%N/A 83.8 87.3 86.7 N/A
In 2021, over 35% of our electrical energy was obtained from renewable 
or alternative sources.Renewable energy 1, 2  
%17.4 21.2 21.0 24.2 N/A
Alternative energy 3  
%15.1 14.3 12.0 13.0 N/A
Energy intensity / A/  
absolute gigajoules energy  
use/million dollars of sales  
and revenues461 445 463 404 N/AIn 2021, we reduced our energy intensity by 12% from our 2018 baseline.
Absolute greenhouse gas  
(GHG) emissions / A/ 5, 12 
million metric tons CO2e2.22 1.78 1.47 1.51 1.55
Our absolute GHG emissions decreased 32% from 2018  
to 2021.Scope 1 Direct emissions / A/ 12  
million metric tons0.94 0.91 0.70 0.74 N/A
Scope 2 / A/ Market-based indirect 
emissions from purchased electricity, heat or steam 
4, 12 
million metric tons1.28 0.87 0.77 0.77 N/A
Scope 2 / A/ Location-based 4  
million metric tons1.32 0.93 0.83 0.85 N/A
GHG intensity / A/ 5, 12 
absolute metric tons of CO2e/million dollars of sales and revenues 40.6 33.0 35.0 29.7 N/AIn 2021, we reduced our GHG emissions intensity by 27% from our 2018 baseline.
WATER — OPERATIONS
Water management strategies / A/  
% of in-scope facilities that meet all nine management elements N/A N/A N/A 11% 100%Water management strategies is a new goal for Caterpillar and data collection began in 2021. Previous years are listed as N/A as this is a newly composed goal. In this first year of implementation, we are pleased to see foundational progress begin toward our 2030 goal.
Water management strategies  
% of management elements completed by in-scope facilities N/A N/A N/A 27% N/A
Total water / A/ 
billion gallons3.85 3.74 3.38 3.70 N/A
In 2021, we reduced our absolute water consumption by nearly 3% since 2018.Total water consumption by source
Cooling water from foundry 
operations / A/32.8% 35.2% 35.2% 37.4% N/A
Municipal water/ A/ 30.6% 30.8% 29.6% 28.8% N/A
Surface water / A/ 18.3% 18.0% 20.4% 19.4% N/A
Other water / A/ 0.4% 0.7% 0.6% 0.5% N/A
Groundwater /A/ 17.9% 15.4% 14.2% 13.9% N/A
Water consumption intensity / A/ 13 
absolute thousand gallons of  
water/million dollars of sales  
and revenues70.4 69.4 80.9 72.6 N/AThrough 2021, we have reduced water consumption intensity at our 
facilities by a total of 5% from our baseline year of 2018.
N/A = Not Applicable    
/A/ Data assured by ERM CVS. Please see our data assurance statement .
CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT582018 2019 2020 2021GOAL 
2030PERSPECTIVE
WASTE — OPERATIONS
Total waste   
metric tons635,000 587,000 554,000 567,000 N/A
In 2021, we reduced our landfill intensity by 34% from our  
2018 baseline.Waste intensity   
absolute metrics tons of by-product 
materials/million dollars of sales and revenues11.6 10.9 13.3 11.1 N/A
Landfill intensity  1.49 1.36 1.09 0.98 0.74
Waste recycled  
%86.8 87.1 91.5 90.8 N/A
PRODUCTS
New products that are more sustainable than the previous generation through collaborating  
with customers, reduced waste, improved design for rebuild/remanufacturing, lower emissions  
or improved efficiency.  89% 95% 97% 100% 100%Caterpillar has a long history of and a strong process for innovation in the research and development of products and solutions.
STRATEGIC PROCUREMENT
Supplier Code of Conduct  
self-assessments 39% 67% 94% 96% N/ASince 2016, Caterpillar has proactively surveyed our priority supply base to confirm alignment to Caterpillar’s published Supplier Code of Conduct. Caterpillar uses assessment response data to address supply chain risk through a collaborative approach with responding suppliers. The 2021 target reflects continued focus on this initiative.
REMANUFACTURING
Growth in remanufacturing business 6 
sales since 2018 N/A 2% -14% -3% 25%
Our remanufacturing and rebuild businesses provide customers  
with immediate cost savings, help extend product lifecycles and  
use materials more efficiently. We seek to continue to grow  
these businesses.Product take-back by weight 7, 8  
millions of pounds of end-of-life material received 155 153 131 127 N/A
Product take-back by percentage 7, 8   
% of actual end-of-life returns/eligible returns 92% 91% 89% 88% N/A
PHILANTHROPY
Community investments  
millions of dollars  $27 $28.6 $37.9 $41 N/ASince 1952, the Caterpillar Foundation has contributed nearly $851 
million to help make sustainable progress possible around the world by building resilient communities that thrive in a rapidly changing world.
Matching gifts 9 
millions of dollars  $4.1 $3.5 $9.8 $22.6 N/AThe Caterpillar Foundation is proud to match contributions to eligible organizations given by our U.S. employees, retirees and board members. 
United Way 10  
millions of dollars $11.8 $12.2 $12.3 $12.9 N/ACaterpillar has supported the United Way for more than  
60 years through our annual campaign. The Foundation matches employee and retiree gifts during the campaign, amplifying our impact on the communities where we live and work.
N/A = Not Applicable    
/A/ Data assured by ERM CVS. Please see our data assurance statement .
CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT59
1. Renewable energy percent includes purchased and on-site generated 
renewable energy, as well as calculating the percentage of renewable 
energy from grid-purchased electricity using data obtained from the 
International Energy Agency. 
2. Renewable Energy: Caterpillar defines renewable energy as energy resources that are naturally replenishing over a short 
period of time and virtually inexhaustible. Power generation 
examples include wind, solar, hydro, geothermal, tidal, wave, biomass and biogas from anaerobic digestion. 
3. Alternative Energy: Caterpillar defines alternative energy as any source of usable energy that offers substantial environmental 
benefits compared to the conventional sources of energy that it 
replaces. Power generation examples include landfill gas, coal mine and abandoned mine methane, combined heat and power, 
coal with carbon sequestration and localized power generation. 
4. Location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions are provided in 
accordance with the GHG Protocol Scope 2 guidance (2015).  
Our market-based Scope 2 emissions are calculated using the Scope 2 Quality Criteria. The following instruments were used in calculating our market-based Scope 2 emissions: Renewable 
Energy Guarantees of Origin, energy contracts, supplier-specific 
emission rates, Caterpillar-owned power generation facilities and, for the remainder of our facilities, grid average emission factors 
from USEPA’s eGRID (2019) and the International Energy Agency’s 
data (2018). For 2021 calculations, Caterpillar did not use residual mix factors. 
5. GHG emissions intensity is based on our combined Scope 1 (direct) and Scope 2 (indirect, market-based) GHG emissions. Likewise, 
total absolute GHG emissions are a sum of Scope 1 and Scope 2 
(market-based) emissions.
6. Data includes remanufacturing offerings provided by Cat Reman, Progress Rail, Solar Turbines, Caterpillar Energy Solutions, and  
Cat Defense. 7. Data does not include Progress Rail or Solar Turbines.
8. Product returned for remanufacture (called “core”) is not always returned within the same calendar year as sold.
9. The Caterpillar Foundation changed its Matching Gift payout process in 2021. This data represents employee and retiree 
donations made in the calendar year 2020 and the match made  
in the calendar year 2021 in addition to employee and retiree 
donations made in the calendar year 2021 and the Caterpillar 
Foundation’s match made in 2021 (Q1-3). This also includes  
2:1 employee and retiree donations made in the calendar year  
2021 and the Caterpillar Foundation’s match made in 2021.
10. This includes employee and retiree pledges during the 2021 
campaign, and the Foundation match for the campaigns in the 
United States, Canada and Mexico paid in 2021/2022.
11. Data includes Caterpillar and agency employees. Data does not 
include contractor employees.
12. Base year GHG data has been amended per guidance provided by the Science-based Target Initiative Criteria and Recommendations 
Version 4.1 April 2020. Other prior year data have been revised for 
improved accuracy.
13. Water intensity data prior to 2021 had been reported based on  
our 2020 target that did not include non-contact cooling water.  
We have updated our reporting for 2021 and prior years to include this additional water use.
Note: Photos in this report reflect different periods of the COVID-19 
pandemic, complying with various safety protocol requirements.ESG ENDNOTESCATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT60
In 2020, we prioritized ESG topics by reviewing Caterpillar’s strategies, risks and future plans, and examining the external industry landscape to understand both 
evolving trends as well as expectations of leading ESG standards, frameworks and disclosures.
We prioritized topics based on interviews with Caterpillar leadership, external research, benchmarking of industry peers and input from third-party consulting 
expertise, including:
•  Potential impact the topic may have on Caterpillar’ s business
•  Level of awareness and concern about the topic by business stakeholders (e.g., customers, dealers, suppliers, investors, nongov ernmental organizations, and others)
•  Degree to which Caterpillar has influence over the topic
Our final step was to select issues that were highest priority. These issues guide our initiatives and decision-making throughout our global operations and are closely 
aligned with topics covered by the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), Resource Transformation sector and Industrial Machinery & Goods industry. 
We will continue to analyze and update these topics periodically as the ESG landscape and our business continues to evolve. We are committed to demonstrating 
shareholder responsiveness as we strive for continuous improvement throughout our sustainability journey.
ISSUE RELEVANCE
Employee Health & SafetyThe health and safety of our employees is an important focus at Caterpillar, and we relentlessly strive to ensure our 
workforce returns home safely every day.
Customer Health & SafetyOur commitment to safety includes people who work in, on and around our products — from designing products for safe operations to providing safety services for our customers.
Product Emissions & Energy EfficiencyWith more than 4 million products operating globally, Caterpillar is committed to contributing to a reduced-carbon future. We continue to invest in new products, technologies and services to help our customers achieve their climate-related objectives as they build a better, more sustainable world.
Operations Energy & Efficiency Operations within our manufacturing facilities are energy-intensive and account for most of our Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
Operations WaterWhile less water intensive than some industries, we are focused on reducing water consumption and ensuring good water management practices, particularly in areas determined to be the most at risk for water scarcity or quality concerns.
Operations WasteWe strive to eliminate waste in our processes where possible, and to recycle those materials that remain, to reduce materials sent to landfills around the world.
RemanufacturingThrough our remanufacturing and rebuild offerings, we help keep materials in circulation for as long as possible, reducing waste, extending equipment life and providing lower-cost options for our customers.
Material SourcingWe source raw materials and manufactured components from a global network of suppliers across broad categories and technologies for aftermarket and production parts; approximately 27,000 suppliers in total. Our Supplier Code of Conduct and supporting initiatives help ensure we responsibly source the raw materials used to build our products.
Human Capital ManagementWe attract and recruit the best talent to develop advanced technologies, meet customer needs and grow our business. The 
diverse thinking and decision-making of our people in an inclusive work environment strengthens us and drives our progress. PRIORITIZATION AND MANAGEMENT 
OF ESG ISSUESCATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT61
TOPIC SASB CODE METRIC UNIT OF MEASURE RESPONSE/COMMENT
Accounting MetricsRT-IG-000.A Number of units produced by product category NumberSales data is provided in Caterpillar's annual 
report to shareholders on Form 10-K. 
RT-IG-000.B Number of employees Number 107,700
Energy ManagementRT-IG-130a.1(1) total energy consumed Gigajoules (GJ)
Total energy consumed in GJ for 2021 is 20,600,000.
(2) Percentage grid electricity % 86.7%
(3) Percentage renewable % 24.2%
Employee Health  and SafetyRT-IG-320a.1(1) total recordable incident rate (TRIR) Rate
0.41
(2) fatality rate Number 0 employees11, 1 contractor
(3) near miss frequency rate (NMFR) RateCaterpillar emphasizes the importance of reviewing all work-related environmental, health and safety incidents, including near misses. Near misses are communicated and managed locally. 
Fuel Economy & Emissions in Use-PhaseRT-IG-410a.1Sales-weighted fleet fuel efficiency for medium- and heavy-duty vehiclesGallons per  1,000 ton-miles
Not applicable to Caterpillar.
RT-IG-410a.2Sales-weighted fuel efficiency for  non-road equipmentGallons per hour
We continue to invest in research and development aimed at products that generate fewer direct emissions. Read more about our focus on energy, 
fuel economy and emissions . Given the diversity 
of our products and applications in which our products are used, as well as the lack of industry standards to estimate on a per unit of work basis, Caterpillar does not calculate sales-weighted fuel efficiency or emissions in this manner.RT-IG-410a.3Sales-weighted fuel efficiency for  stationary generatorsWatts per hour
RT-IG-410a.4Sales-weighted emissions of:  (1) nitrogen oxides (NOx) and  (2) particulate matter (PM) for:  (a) marine diesel engines, (b) locomotive diesel engines, (c) on-road medium- and heavy-duty engines, and (d) other non-road diesel enginesGrams per kilowatt-hour
Materials Sourcing RT-IG-440a.1Description of the management of risks associat -
ed with the use of critical materialsN/A
Caterpillar responsibly sources the raw materials used to build our products. Please see the material procurement section of this report.  
Remanufacturing Design & ServicesRT-IG-440b.1Revenue from remanufactured products and remanufacturing servicesReporting currency
Our remanufacturing sales and revenues have reduced 3% since 2018. SASB INDEX
CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT62
GRI INDEX
GENERAL DISCLOSURES
DISCLOSURE 
NUMBERDISCLOSURE TITLE RESPONSE
GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 
102-1 Name of the organization Caterpillar Inc.
102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 2021 Form 10-K, pgs. 1-9
102-3 Location of headquarters Deerfield, Illinois, USA
102-4 Location of operations 2021 Form 10-K, pgs. 21-23
102-5 Ownership and legal formCaterpillar is a publicly held corporation incorporated in the state of Delaware. Our 
shares trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the trading symbol CAT.
102-6 Markets served 2021 Form 10-K , pgs. 1-7
102-7 Scale of the organization 2021 Form 10-K , pgs. 8, 63
102-8 Information on employees and other workers Reporting > ESG Data
102-9 Supply chain2021 Form 10-K , pg. 6  
Material Procurement
102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain None
102-11 Precautionary Principle or approachCaterpillar regularly identifies and manages business risks through a robust  
internal management system. See also Corporate Governance > Risk Management
102-12 External initiativesCaterpillar Inc., our subsidiaries and the Caterpillar Foundation work with diverse organizations in order to advance economic, environmental and social issues and share best practices across industries. See GRI 102-13 for a list of affiliations.
102-13
Membership of associations Caterpillar is affiliated with a number of organizations. The most recent list of U.S. trade 
associations to which Caterpillar has contributed $50,000 per year or more, updated on a semiannual basis, can be found here. 
STRATEGY
102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Executive Summary > Chairman and CEO Letter
ETHICS AND INTEGRITY
102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Corporate Governance > Ethics & Compliance
Caterpillar.com > Company > GovernanceCATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT63GENERAL DISCLOSURES
DISCLOSURE 
NUMBERDISCLOSURE TITLE RESPONSE
GOVERNANCE
102-18 Governance structure 2022 Proxy, pg. 10
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
102-40 List of stakeholder groups Our stakeholders include customers, employees, shareholders, dealers, suppliers, nongovernmental 
organizations and trade organizations.
102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Reporting > ESG Data
102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Reporting > Prioritization and Management of ESG Issues
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Reporting > Prioritization and Management of ESG Issues
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Reporting > Prioritization and Management of ESG Issues
REPORTING PRACTICE
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 2021 Form 10-K, Exhibit 21
102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Reporting > Prioritization and Management of ESG Issues
102-47 List of material topics Reporting > Prioritization and Management of ESG Issues
102-48 Restatements of information Any restatements are footnoted as applicable throughout the report.
102-49 Changes in reporting Reporting > Prioritization and Management of ESG Issues
102-50 Reporting period The reporting period is the 2021 calendar year, which is also Caterpillar’s fiscal year.
102-51 Date of most recent report Caterpillar's 2020 Sustainability Report was released in 2021.
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report https://www.caterpillar.com/en/contact.html
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI StandardsThis report has been prepared in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option.
102-55 GRI content index
Reporting > GRI Index
102-56 External assurance Reporting > About this Report
GRI 300: ENVIRONMENTAL
GRI 301: MATERIALS
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its BoundaryReporting > Prioritization and Management of ESG Issues  
Material Procurement, Remanufacturing
103-2 The management approach and its components Executive Summary > Goals and Progress  
Material Procurement, Remanufacturing
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Material Procurement, Remanufacturing
301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials Reporting > ESG Data
CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT64GENERAL DISCLOSURES
DISCLOSURE 
NUMBERDISCLOSURE TITLE RESPONSE
GRI 302: ENERGY
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its BoundaryReporting > Prioritization and Management of ESG Issues
Energy, Fuel Economy & Emissions
103-2 The management approach and its componentsExecutive Summary > Goals and ProgressEnergy, Fuel Economy & Emissions
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach
Energy, Fuel Economy & Emissions
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Reporting > ESG Data
302-3 Energy intensity Reporting > ESG Data
GRI 303: WATER AND EFFLUENTS
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Reporting > Prioritization and Management of ESG Issues
103-2 The management approach and its components Executive Summary > Goals and Progress
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Energy, Fuel Economy & Emissions > EHS Management System
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resourceReporting > Prioritization and Management of ESG Issues , Executive Summary > Goals 
and Progress  
Remanufacturing  
Philanthropy
303-2 Management of water discharge-related impactsReporting > Prioritization and Management of ESG Issues , Executive Summary > Goals 
and Progress  
Material Procurement > Responsible Mineral Sourcing
303-5 Water consumption Reporting > ESG Data
GRI 305: EMISSIONS
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its BoundaryReporting > Prioritization and Management of ESG Issues  
Energy, Fuel Economy & Emissions
103-2 The management approach and its components Executive Summary > Goals and Progress  
Energy, Fuel Economy & Emissions
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Energy, Fuel Economy & Emissions
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Reporting > ESG Data
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Reporting > ESG Data
305-4 GHG emissions intensity Reporting > ESG Data
GRI 306: WASTE 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Reporting > Prioritization and Management of ESG Issues
103-2 The management approach and its components Executive Summary > Goals and Progress
103-3 Evaluation of the management approachEnergy, Fuel Economy & Emissions > EHS Management System  
Remanufacturing
306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts Remanufacturing
CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT65GENERAL DISCLOSURES
DISCLOSURE 
NUMBERDISCLOSURE TITLE RESPONSE
306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts Remanufacturing
306-3 Waste generated Reporting > ESG Data
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal Reporting > ESG Data
GRI 308: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its BoundaryReporting > Prioritization and Management of ESG Issues  
Material Procurement
103-2 The management approach and its components  Material Procurement
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Material Procurement
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Reporting > ESG Data
GRI 400: SOCIAL
GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its BoundaryReporting > Prioritization and Management of ESG Issues  
People
103-2 The management approach and its components People
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach People
401-2Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 
temporary or part-time employeesPeople > Health & Well-Being
GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its BoundaryReporting > Prioritization and Management of ESG Issues  
People > Employee Health and Safety
103-2 The management approach and its components Executive Summary > Goals and Progress  
People > Employee Health and Safety
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach People > Employee Health and Safety
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system People > Employee Health and Safety
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation People > Employee Health and Safety
403-3 Occupational health services People > Employee Health and Safety
403-4Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and safetyPeople > Employee Health and Safety
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety People > Employee Health and Safety
403-6 Promotion of worker health People > Employee Health and Safety
403-7Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked by business relationships People > Employee Health and Safety
CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT66GENERAL DISCLOSURES
DISCLOSURE 
NUMBERDISCLOSURE TITLE RESPONSE
403-8Workers covered by an occupational health and safety 
management systemPeople > Employee Health and Safety
403-9 Work-related injuries Reporting > ESG Data
403-10 Work-related ill health Reporting > ESG Data
GRI 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its BoundaryReporting > Prioritization and Management of ESG Issues  
People > Talent Development & Training
103-2 The management approach and its components  People > Talent Development & Training
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach People > Talent Development & Training
404-2Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition  
assistance programsPeople > Talent Development & Training
GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its BoundaryReporting > Prioritization and Management of ESG Issues  
People > Health & Well-Being, Diversity & Inclusion, Human Rights & Employee Experience
103-2 The management approach and its components People > Health & Well-Being, Diversity & Inclusion, Human Rights & Employee Experience
103-3 Evaluation of the management approachPeople > Health & Well-Being, Diversity & Inclusion, Human Rights & Employee Experience
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employeesReporting > ESG Data  
2022 Proxy, pg. 11
GRI 412: HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its BoundaryReporting > Prioritization and Management of ESG Issues  
Material Procurement  
People > Health & Well-Being, Diversity & Inclusion, Human Rights & Employee Experience
103-2 The management approach and its components Material Procurement  
People > Health & Well-Being, Diversity & Inclusion, Human Rights & Employee Experience
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Material Procurement  
People > Health & Well-Being, Diversity & Inclusion, Human Rights & Employee Experience
412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or proceduresAll Caterpillar employees are annually required to complete Code of Conduct training. As part of this training, employees must certify that they have read, understand and agree to comply with the Code of Conduct. Additional compliance training is also provided to employees based on risk identified in their job roles. 
CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT67GENERAL DISCLOSURES
DISCLOSURE 
NUMBERDISCLOSURE TITLE RESPONSE
GRI 414: SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its BoundaryReporting > Prioritization and Management of ESG Issues  
Material Procurement  
People > Health & Well-Being, Diversity & Inclusion, Human Rights & 
Employee Experience
103-2 The management approach and its components Material Procurement  
People > Health & Well-Being, Diversity & Inclusion, Human Rights & Employee Experience
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Material Procurement  
People > Health & Well-Being, Diversity & Inclusion, Human Rights & Employee Experience
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria
Reporting > ESG Data
GRI 416: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY
103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its BoundaryReporting > Prioritization and Management of ESG Issues  
Energy, Fuel Economy & Emissions > Enabling Customer Success
103-2 The management approach and its components Executive Summary > Goals and Progress  
Energy, Fuel Economy & Emissions > Enabling Customer Success
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Energy, Fuel Economy & Emissions > Enabling Customer Success
416-1Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categoriesCaterpillar positively impacts the safety of our customers through product design and safety services offerings.
CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT68 
 Independent Assurance Statement to Caterpillar Inc.
ERM Certification and Verification Services , Inc. (ERM CVS) was engaged by Caterpillar Inc. to provide assurance in 
relation to the information set out below and presented in the Caterpillar 2021 Sustainability Report.  
Engagement s ummary 
Scope of our 
engagement Whether the 2021 information and data for the specified indicators listed below are fairly presented in accordance with 
the reporting criteria. The data covered by the assurance will relate to year ending 31 December 2021.  
Environmental Data  
• Facilities located in water high risk areas with implemented water management strategies [%]  
Absolute and intensity  
• Scope 1 GHG emissions [million metric tons CO2e and million metric tons CO2e/million dollars of sales and 
revenues*]  
• Scope 2 GHG emissions (by market -based method) [million metric tons CO2e and million metric tons CO2e/million 
dollars of sales and revenues*]  
• Total GHG emissions [million metric tons CO2e and million metric tons CO2e/million dollars of sales and revenues*]  
• Total energy consumption [GJ and GJ/million dollars of sales and revenues*]  
• Total water consumption [billion gallons and absolute thousand gallons of water/million dollars of sales and 
revenues*]  
Absolute only  
• Scope 2 GHG emissions (by location based method) [million metric tons CO2e];  
• Total electricity [MWH]  
• Total water consumption by source  [%]: 
• C ooling water from foundry operations       ∙     Groundwater  
• Municipal water                                           ∙     Surface water  
• Scope 1 GHG emissions 2018 baseline recalculation [million metric tons CO2e]  
• Scope 2 GHG emissions (by market -based method) 2018 baseline recalculation [million metric tons CO2e]  
Safety Indicators  
• Lost Time Case Frequency  Rate (LTCFR);  
• Recordable Injury Frequency rate (RIF) per 200,000 hours worked.  
* We place reliance on the financial assurance conducted on sales and revenues dollars as  they are presented in the 
2021 10-K filing.  
Reporting 
criteria The WBCSD/WRI GHG Protocol (2004, as revised January 2015) for the Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions and Caterpillar 
internal reporting criteria and definitions for the other indicators.  
Assurance 
standard ERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Sta ndard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 
(Revised) .  
Assurance level Limited assurance 
Respective 
responsibilities Caterpillar is responsible for preparing the data and for its correct presentation in reporting to third parties, including 
disclosure of the reporting criteria and boundary.   
ERM CVS ’s responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities performed and 
exercising our professional judgement.  
Our conclusions  
Based on our activities , as described below,  nothing has come to our attention to indic ate that the 2021 data and information fo r the disclosures 
listed under ‘Scope  of our Engagement ’ above are not fairly presented, in all material respects, with the reporting criteria . 
Our assurance activities    
A multi -disciplinary team of sustainability  and assurance specialists performed a range of assurance procedures which varied across the 
disclosures covered by our assurance engagement , as follows:    
 Interviews with relevant staff to understand and evaluate the data management systems and processes used for collecting  and 
reporting the selected data (environmental and safety);  
 A review of the internal indicator definitions, reporting guidelines and emission and conversion factors;  
 An analytical review of the data from all sites and a check on the completeness and accuracy of the corporate data  consolidation , 
including recalculation of base year emissions due to acquisitions and divestments ; 
 Virtual visits to eight sites to review local reporting processes and consistency of  reported annual data with selected underlying source 
data for select environmental and safety  indicators . We interviewed relevant staff, reviewed site  data capture and reporting methods, 
checked calculations and assessed the local internal quality assurance processes;  
 Desk -based review of source data for the significant contributing sites to each key corporate EHS metrics (e.g. energy, water, hours 
worked) including a sample of invoices and local incident logs, among others.  
The limitations of our engagement 
The reliability of the assured information is subject to inherent uncertainties, given the available methods for determining, calculating or estimating 
the underlying information. It is important to understand our assurance conclusions in this context.  
Our independe nce 
ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that ERM CVS conducts for clients is solely related to independent assurance a ctivities and 
auditor training. Our processes are designed and implemented to ensure that the work we undertake with clients is fre e from bias and conflict of 
interest. ERM CVS and the staff that have undertaken work on this assurance exercise provide no consultancy related services to Caterpillar Inc.  
in any respect.  
 
Beth Wyke , Head of Corporate  Assurance  Services  
21 April 2022  
ERM Certification and Verification Services, Malvern  
www.ermcvs.com   Email: post@ermcvs.com  
CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT69
ABOUT THIS REPORT
The reporting period is the 2021  
calendar year, which is also Caterpillar’s 
fiscal year. Caterpillar is headquartered  
in Deerfield, Illinois, USA. 
This report has been prepared in 
accordance with the Sustainability 
Accounting Standards Board (SASB) 
Standards and the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option. 
SASB publishes sector-specific reporting 
standards based on expert input and 
GRI publishes reporting standards based on company-conducted materiality 
assessments, both designed to allow 
businesses to identify the sustainability 
issues of highest importance to investors 
and most relevant in their industry. We 
are also working toward a common global purpose with contributions to the U.N. 
Sustainable Development Goals (UN 
SDGs). Further, we have committed to 
enhancing our reporting in alignment with 
the framework provided by the Task Force 
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD) starting in 2023. 
Given the breadth of our products, 
services and solutions, our advocacy  
on behalf of policies that enable sustainable development and the 
Caterpillar Foundation’s effort to build 
resilient communities, Caterpillar and  
our customers are helping build a more sustainable future. Report content 
represents 100% of the products and operations of Caterpillar Inc. and its 
subsidiaries where we have a controlling 
financial interest. Where noted, 
Caterpillar’s independent dealer network 
and supplier network are also represented. Caterpillar and subsidiary brands are listed on our website. 
Caterpillar’s environmental and safety 
metrics for operations are consolidated 
based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol 
“operational control” approach. 
Environmental data excludes office 
locations with fewer than 500 employees 
and minor operations with fewer than 50 
employees that will not have a significant impact on reported metrics. Safety data 
includes employees and agency workers 
in all workplaces within Caterpillar’s 
reporting boundary.
ERM Certification and Verification Services 
(ERM CVS) has conducted independent assurance of selected 2021 environmental 
and safety data. To understand the scope, 
activities and conclusions of the assurance 
process, please see the ERM CVS 
Assurance Statement.Contact Us
CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT70FORWARD-LOOKING 
STATEMENTS
Certain statements in this press release relate to future events and expectations and are forward-looking statements within the meaning of 
the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as “believe,” “estimate,” “will be,” “will,” “would,” “expect,” “anticipate,” 
“plan,” “forecast,” “target,” “guide,” “project,” “intend,” “could,” “should” or other similar words or expressions often identify forward-looking 
statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, statements regarding our outlook, projections, forecasts or trend descriptions. These statements do not guarantee future performance and speak only as  
of the date they are made, and we do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements. 
Caterpillar’s actual results may differ materially from those described or implied in our forward-looking statements based on a number of factors, 
including, but not limited to: (i) global and regional economic conditions and economic conditions in the industries we serve; (ii) commodity price 
changes, material price increases, fluctuations in demand for our products or significant shortages of material; (iii) government monetary or fiscal policies; (iv) political and economic risks, commercial instability and events beyond our control in the countries in which we operate;  
(v) international trade policies and their impact on demand for our products and our competitive position, including the imposition of new tariffs or changes in existing tariff rates; (vi) our ability to develop, produce and market quality products that meet our customers’ needs; (vii) the impact of the highly competitive environment in which we operate on our sales and pricing; (viii) information technology security threats and 
computer crime; (ix) inventory management decisions and sourcing practices of our dealers and our OEM customers; (x) a failure to realize, or a 
delay in realizing, all of the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions, joint ventures or divestitures; (xi) union disputes or other employee relations issues; (xii) adverse effects of unexpected events; (xiii) disruptions or volatility in global financial markets limiting our sources of liquidity or the 
liquidity of our customers, dealers and suppliers; (xiv) failure to maintain our credit ratings and potential resulting increases to our cost of borrowing 
and adverse effects on our cost of funds, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets; (xv) our Financial Products segment’s risks associated with the financial services industry; (xvi) changes in interest rates or market liquidity conditions; (xvii) an increase in delinquencies, 
repossessions or net losses of Cat Financial’s customers; (xviii) currency fluctuations; (xix) our or Cat Financial’s compliance with financial and 
other restrictive covenants in debt agreements; (xx) increased pension plan funding obligations; (xxi) alleged or actual violations of trade or anti-corruption laws and regulations; (xxii) additional tax expense or exposure, including the impact of U.S. tax reform; (xxiii) significant legal 
proceedings, claims, lawsuits or government investigations; (xxiv) new regulations or changes in financial services regulations; (xxv) compliance 
with environmental laws and regulations; (xxvi) the duration and geographic spread of, business disruptions caused by, and the overall global economic impact of, the COVID-19 pandemic; and (xxvii) other factors described in more detail in Caterpillar’s Forms 10-Q, 10-K and other filings  
with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
CATERPILLAR 2021 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT71
READ MORE ONLINE
Visit caterpillar.com/sustainability  
to learn more about how we’re helping 
our customers build a better world.
 ©2022 Caterpillar. All Rights Reserved. CAT , CATERPILLAR, 
LET’S DO THE WORK, their respective logos, “Caterpillar 
Corporate Yellow” , the “Power Edge” and Cat “Modern Hex” 
trade dress as well as corporate and product identity used 
herein, are trademarks of Caterpillar and may not be used 
without permission.