1
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
Caterpillar  
On energy:
Supplying solutions  for a demanding world.
2011 SuStainability RepoRt2
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
table of ContentS
 3 ChaiRman’S meSSaGe
 6 ouR appRoaCh
 12 ouR ViewS
 19 eneRGy
 20  bRiGhteninG pRoSpeCtS aRound the woRld 
we help meet power generation needs
 23  ConVeRtinG poweRful alteRnatiVeS 
efficient, alternative/renewable power production
 26  dRiVinG betteR peRfoRmanCe 
Clean, more energy-efficient products
 30  bRinGinG it up RiGht 
we are one of the world’s largest mining  
equipment providers
 34  SaVinG eneRGy on the job 
Saving fuel depends on the efficiencies  
of design and operation
 38 people
 43 GoalS & pRoGReSS
 68 ConneCtionS
3
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
ChaiRman’S meSSaGe
Caterpillar On energy
i haVe neVeR been moRe Committed to SuStainable deVelopment than 
i am today. i tRa Vel the woRld and See fiRSt hand how the woRld 
needS the pRoduCtS, SeRViCeS and SolutionS that CateRpillaR pRoVideS. 
and i See a woRld population that iS GRowinG and modeRnizinG. all of theSe thinGS lead to the queStion, “what doeS the woRld need?”
ask 10 people what the world needs, and you’ll probably get 10 different answers. 
at Caterpillar, we’ve got quite a list of what the world needs – freer trade, rational regulations, more energy, quality education, quality healthcare, clean water, modern infrastructure, improved standards of living around the globe, just to mention a few. i could talk on the importance of any of these subjects; but this year,  
i want to focus on energy. the world needs reliable, cleaner energy. 
Some 2.7 billion people live without access to adequate energy services.  
approximately 1.3 billion people, nearly one fifth of the global population, have 
no access to electricity at all. it’s hard to imagine. it’s also within our grasp to change. Given the abundant supplies of energy resources and the technology available today, there is no reason why we can’t expand energy access to those who are living without it. in many cases, the biggest difference between a  
developing nation and a developed nation is access to electricity. our challenge  
is how to extend that access in the most sustainable way possible.douglas R. oberhelman  
Chairman and Ceo
(continued)4
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
ChaiRman’S meSSaGe
we all have a role when it comes to energy. at Caterpillar, our role is 
clear and significant. w e are a global manufacturer; and, as we build 
products, we use energy. w e have to be as efficient in the use of this 
energy as possible. w e employ efficiency programs like the Caterpillar 
production System to make the best use of energy in our production 
lines. our logistics business strives to find the most efficient ways to get parts and components to facilities around the world. w e build new 
facilities to efficient building standards. and we monitor energy use at our facilities and take proactive steps to reduce energy waste. 
we also work with customers who are focused on their own energy 
consumption and on providing the energy the world needs. as commu-
nities, states or countries grow their economies and improve quality of life for citizens, they have to think about energy. Collectively, we all need to think more about sources and impacts of energy – both production and consumption.
we are all on this planet together and need to be informed on the issues 
surrounding energy. here’s what we believe at Caterpillar:•  Energy sources need to be developed and used in an environmentally 
responsible manner. w e use energy, and we have a responsibility 
to develop energy sources sustainably. Caterpillar is continually enhancing the efficiency of its equipment and improving product technologies. while the consumption of energy for our products is only a very small part of global energy consumption, it is a significant component of the business of our customers and, therefore, a key focus for us. •  There is no one single solution to providing globally abundant,  
reliable, secure, clean and reasonably priced energy. w e need all 
sources of energy, including alternatives/renewables like wind, solar, 
biomass, waste and used oil. but, we also need to develop traditional sources of energy, like nuclear, natural gas and coal. nuclear is the lowest emitting base load energy source available today. natural gas is the fastest-growing fuel, now accounting for approximately 23 percent of the world’s energy consumption. and demand is growing. Coal is abundantly available and has the scale to meet the primary energy needs of the world’s rising population and expected economic growth over the next several decades. all energy sources have an impact on the planet. w e need to work together to limit those 
impacts wherever possible. 
 •  Caterpillar supports market-based, cost-efficient energy solutions to help meet the world’s growing energy demands. we need energy 
policies and an atmosphere in which the best companies, experts, researchers, inventors and entrepreneurs have the freedom to inno-vate and the flexibility and resources to develop cleaner, more secure energy – and more of it. w e need policies and flexible mechanisms 
that harness the marketplace to drive innovation, mobilize investment and allow the sharing of clean, efficient technologies.
•  Access to affordable and dependable energy resources is critical for 
energy security, economic prosperity and growing economies. look at the world. energy consumption is rising rapidly, driven by worldwide population growth, swiftly developing economies, improving global living standards and the burgeoning use of ever more energy-dependent technologies. the global demand for energy is expected to increase significantly over the next 20 years.
the energy challenges are great. and we all have a role in helping shape a future where everyone has access to affordable, clean energy. we take our responsibilities seriously in terms of our own operations 
and in helping our employees, communities and civic leaders under -
stand our perspective in the energy debate; but that’s only a small part of our interest in energy. 1.3             approximately 1.3 billion people, nearly 
one fifth of the global population, have no access to electricity at all. it’s hard to imagine.
(continued)5
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
ChaiRman’S meSSaGe
energy is at the core of our business. 
Caterpillar customers play a major role in satisfying the world’s increasing 
demand for reliable energy sources and clean, more efficient energy use. and our business is all about serving our customers.
for decades, we’ve been working with customers to use alternative 
fuels to power our reciprocating engines and gas turbines. and while it represents a small percentage of our sales today, we’re working to grow that business every day. within this year’s report, you will read how we convert waste energy into clean, useful energy. t oday, one  
of our largest businesses is mining. mining is at the heart of much of today’s traditional energy sources. w e also supply the global oil and gas 
industries. w e provide an entire suite of services to help customers 
extract energy resources more efficiently and enable more sustainable harvesting techniques. 
we are also focused on energy used for transportation. y ou’ll find  
industry-leading efficiency in Cat marine engines in many ocean-going 
vessels, and we are investing heavily in rail and locomotive power – and re-power.
Caterpillar’s role is clear. our customers are in the energy business, 
and we are working to find ways to help them provide the energy the world needs in a more sustainable manner. w e are helping them 
succeed by helping them become more sustainable and efficient. 
doug oberhelmanChairman and Chief executive officer  of Caterpillar inc.
Caterpillar customers play a major role in  
satisfying the world’s increasing demand for 
reliable energy sources and clean, more  
efficient energy use. And our business is all about serving our customers.6
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
ouR appRoaCh
Our apprOaCh
CoRpoRate pRofile
for more than 85 years, Caterpillar inc. has been making sustainable progress possible and 
driving positive change on every continent. with 2011 sales and revenues of $60.14 billion, 
Caterpillar is the world’s leading manufacturer of construction and mining equipment, 
diesel and natural gas engines, industrial gas turbines and diesel-electric locomotives. 
the company also is a leading services provider through Caterpillar financial Services 
Corporation, Caterpillar Remanufacturing Services, Caterpillar logistics inc. and progress Rail Services Corporation. 
Caterpillar is a global leader, a worldwide enabler of sustainable progress. Caterpillar 
operates hundreds of offices and facilities across the world and has more than 125,000 employees. Caterpillar’s global presence, product breadth and financial strength enable us 
to win in today’s competitive marketplaces. w e serve customers in more than 180 countries 
around the globe with more than 300 products. http://www.caterpillar.com.7
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
ouR appRoaCh
gOvernanCe & ethiCs
CoRpoRate GoVeRnanCe
Caterpillar’s corporate governance is designed to serve the interests of 
stockholders and other stakeholders with the highest standards of responsibility, integrity and in compliance with applicable laws. t hese 
standards are developed and implemented by our board of directors and global management team, who oversee the company’s performance and governance policies. 
http://www.caterpillar.com/company/governance
Code of ConduCt
our Values in action – Caterpillar’s w orldwide Code of Conduct, first 
published in 1974 and updated most recently in 2010 in conjunction with 
our corporate strategy update, defines what we stand for and believe in, documenting the uncompromisingly high ethical standards our company has upheld since its founding in 1925. the Code of Conduct helps Caterpillar employees put the values and principles expressed in our Code of Conduct into action every day by providing detailed guidance on the behaviors and actions that support our values of integrity, excellence, teamwork and Commitment. 
http://www.caterpillar.com/company/strategy/code-of-conduct
(continued)8
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
ouR appRoaCh
gOvernanCe & ethiCs  (COnt.)
SuppoRtinG human RiGhtS
we are asked from time to time about our commitment to human rights. 
we believe that our Values in action – Caterpillar’s w orldwide Code 
of Conduct, effectively articulates our long-standing support for, and 
commitment to, human rights and the dignity of all people. Caterpillar values teamwork with our employees, dealers, suppliers and other stakeholders. w e seek suppliers and business allies who also demon-
strate strong values and ethical principles. w e avoid those who 
violate the law or fail to comply with the sound business practices we promote. w e feel strongly that our Values in action creates a work 
environment that recognizes the rights of our employees around the globe. therefore, we do not see a need to become signatories to other voluntary conventions, frameworks and standards that offer direction on how to promote the rights and freedoms of people, including those brought forward by the united nations and other intergovernmental organizations. our employees and management receive regular training and participate in annual assessments to ensure that they are aware of and able to apply the principles contained in our Values in action. w e also maintain internal reporting mechanisms to hold 
employees and management accountable for failing to comply with 
our Values in action.oppoSinG bRibeRy and CoRRuption
Caterpillar believes fair competition based on quality, innovation and 
overall value is fundamental to free enterprise and economic growth. bribery and corruption can have serious social, environmental and economic consequences – impeding trade, competition, investment and economic growth, and limiting a nation’s ability to reduce poverty and improve standards of living. in some areas of the world where Caterpillar does business, bribery and corruption are significant issues. as a result, we strongly advocate and enforce anticorruption policies throughout our businesses.9
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
visiOn, MissiOn & strategy
our vision is a world in which all people’s basic requirements – such 
as shelter, clean water, sanitation and reliable power – are fulfilled in a way that sustains our environment.
our mission is to enable economic growth through infrastructure and 
energy development, and to provide solutions that protect people and preserve the planet.
our strategy is to provide work environments, products, services and 
solutions that make efficient use of the world’s natural resources and reduce unnecessary impacts on people, the environment and the economy. this means that we leverage resources, including tech-nology and innovation, to:
•  Promote and protect individual safety and well-being
•  Provide employment, education and training
•  Minimize the use of energy, materials, water and land
•  Maximize recycling
•  Minimize emissions
•  Optimize the use of renewable resourcesCRitiCal SuCCeSS faCtoRS 
Culture. Create a culture of sustainable development in all our business 
units and in all our daily work.
progress: w e identify and share best practices to promote our  
employees’ awareness and understanding of sustainability. w e  
continue to foster a corporate culture of transparency, disclosure  
and engagement.
operations. be consistent with our sustainability principles and 
contribute to enterprise sustainable development goals.
progress: the Caterpillar production System provides the recipe for 
efficiency and sustaining excellence in our facilities. w e actively 
encourage employees to conserve resources and be more efficient. 
operating in a more efficient and sustainable manner will reduce impacts on people and the environment, and help us and our customers save money.
business opportunities. identify and pursue business growth opportunities 
created by sustainable development.
progress: w e are working to embed sustainability into our Caterpillar  
brand portfolio, our new product development process and our 
technologies. our business leaders continue to drive growth in sales 
of products, services and solutions that help customers meet their sustainability challenges. w e utilize 6 Sigma methodologies to focus 
our work and drive measurable benefits.
Minimize  
emissionsOptimize the  
use of renewable  
resourcespromote and  
protect individual  
safety and  
well-beingprovide  
employment,  
education and  
trainingMinimize the  
use of energy,  
materials, water  
and landMaximize  
recycling
We will execute our strategy by working to meet our long-term aspirational goals. We set yearly targets where possible and are working on additional targets to help us measure our annual progress.ouR appRoaCh10
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
ouR appRoaCh
rOadMap MilestOnes
2000  diesel t echnology forum founding member
2001  joined w orld business Council for Sustainable development
2002  lead corporate sponsor for nature Conservancy’s illinois River 
emiquon preserve restoration and preservation project
2003 Vision zero Safety Goal
 u.S. epa Climate leaders
 developed innovative battery materials technology  first delivery of reduced-impact logging certified lumber in 
the united States, resulting from t ropical forest foundation 
program, supported by Caterpillar
2005 first Sustainability Report
 Revised and relaunched worldwide Code of Conduct
  Sustainable development becomes enterprise Strategic  
area of improvement
  lead corporate sponsor for nature Conservancy’s Great  
Rivers project
2006  dow jones Sustainability w orld index industrial engineering  
Sector leader
 acquired progress Rail Services, inc.  Co-leading corporate sponsor of the w orld Resources 
institute Center for t ransport and the environment embaRq 
project
2007 u.S. Climate action partnership (uSCap)
  founding partner, energy t echnologies institute in the  
united Kingdom
2008  first u.S. epa international Combined heat and power 
award – to customer in China
 Cat® d7e, electric drive track-type tractor introduced
 aC electric drive mining trucks introduced2009 Sustainability Council formed to drive increased revenues
  announced remanufacturing joint venture in China with 
yuchai machinery and opening of R&d center in China
 u.S. epa Clean air excellence a ward for Cat® d7e
  leadership energy and environmental design (leed) existing 
building Gold Certification for Corporate headquarters and Cat financial headquarters
2010 Revised and relaunched worldwide Code of Conduct
  acquired electro-motive diesel, inc., manufacturer of  
diesel-electric locomotives
  Greenmark Gold plus certification for Singapore  
remanufacturing facility
  leed Gold certification for Suzhou, China, medium wheel  
loader/motor Grader facility; w uxi, China, R&d facility;  
tianjin, China, asia power Systems facility; and w ashington, 
ill., instrument applications Center
  leed Silver certification for w uxi, China, perkins Shibaura  
engine facility and beijing, China, office facility
2011  acquired bucyrus international, inc., manufacturer of  
high-productivity mining equipment
  acquired mwm holding Gmbh, Germany-based manufacturer 
of natural gas reciprocating engines
 first annual Chairman’s Sustainability a wards
 leed Silver certification for Seguin, t exas, engine facility
2020  achieve enterprise goals in the areas of workplace and product safety, energy efficiency, greenhouse gas emissions, water consumption, materials efficiency, waste reduction and leed building criteria11
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
fOrward-l OOking state Ments  
and trade Mark inf OrMatiOn
Certain statements in this 2011 Sustainability Report relate to future 
events and expectations and are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private Securities litigation Reform act of 1995. words such as “believe,” “estimate,” “will be,” “will,” “would,” “expect,” 
“anticipate,” “plan,” “project,” “intend,” “could,” “should” or other similar words or expressions often identify forward-looking statements. all statements other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, statements regarding our outlook, projections, forecasts or trend descriptions. these statements do not guarantee future performance, and we do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.  Caterpillar’s actual results may differ materially from those described or implied in our forward-looking statements based on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: (i) global economic conditions and economic conditions in the industries and markets we serve; (ii) government monetary or fiscal policies and infrastructure spending; (iii) commodity or component price increases and/or limited availability of raw materials and component products, including steel; (iv) our and our customers’, dealers’ and suppliers’ ability to access and manage liquidity; (v) political and economic risks and instability, including national or international conflicts and civil unrest; (vi) our and Cat financial’s ability to: maintain credit ratings, avoid material increases in borrowing costs, and access capital markets; (vii) the financial condition and credit worthiness of Cat financial’s customers; (viii) inability to realize expected benefits from acquisitions and divestitures, including the acquisition of bucyrus international, inc.; (ix) international trade and investment policies; (x) challenges related to t ier 4 emissions compliance; (xi) market acceptance of our products and services; (xii) changes in the competitive environment, including market share, pricing and geographic and product mix of sales; (xiii) successful implementation of capacity expansion projects, cost reduction initiatives and efficiency or productivity initiatives, including the Caterpillar production System; (xiv) sourcing practices of our dealers or original equipment manufacturers; (xv) compliance with environmental laws and regulations; (xvi) alleged or actual violations of trade or anti-corruption laws and regulations; (xvii) additional tax expense or exposure; (xviii) currency fluctuations; (xix) our or Cat financial’s compliance with financial covenants; (xx) increased pension plan funding obligations; (xxi) union disputes or other employee relations issues; (xxii) significant legal proceedings, claims, lawsuits or investigations; (xxiii) compliance requirements imposed if carbon emissions legislation and/or regulations are adopted; (xxiv) changes in accounting standards; (xxv) failure or breach of it security; (xxvi) adverse effects of natural disasters; and (xxvii) other factors described in more detail under “item 1a. Risk factors” in our form 10-K filed with the SeC on february 21, 2012 for the year ended december 31, 2011. this filing is available on our website at  
www.caterpillar.com/secfilings. 
Cat, CateRpillaR, their respective logos, “Caterpillar y ellow” and the 
poweR edGe trade dress, as well as corporate and product identity 
used herein, are trademarks of Caterpillar and may not be used without permission. Cat and Caterpillar are registered trademarks of Caterpillar inc., 100 n.e. adams, peoria il 61629.
©  2012 CateRpillaR publiC ReleaSe all Rights Reserved.  
printed in the u.S.a.
ouR appRoaCh12
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
ouR ViewS
Our views
Caterpillar is a global company. with more than 450 facilities worldwide and 
more than half our sales outside the united States, we serve customers around the world. 
we understand that there are many differing economic and political philosophies 
and forms of government globally. w e acknowledge and respect the diversity of 
social customs and cultural traditions in the countries in which we operate. and 
we maintain the flexibility to adapt our business practices to them – to the extent that we can do so in keeping with our Values in action. in certain areas, however, our positions are clear and long standing. these include energy & Climate, Growth & t rade, and people & planet.13
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
ouR ViewS
energy & CliMate
CateRpillaR eneRGy Statement 
Caterpillar has a fundamental interest in and understanding of energy as a global 
energy consumer, global industrial manufacturer, and a major manufacturer of energy conversion and power generation products. Caterpillar is one of the world’s leading technology suppliers to various energy markets, and leverages its technology and innovation to meet the world’s growing energy needs.
the ChallenGe
energy is a key requirement for sustainable progress and development around the world. as a result, energy consumption is rising rapidly, driven by worldwide population growth, swiftly developing economies, improving global living standards and the burgeoning use of ever more energy-dependent technologies. Global demand for energy is expected to increase significantly over the next 20 years. 
CateRpillaR poSitionS
•  Energy sources need to be developed and used in an environmentally  
responsible manner.
•  There is no one single solution to providing globally abundant, reliable, secure, clean 
and reasonably priced energy. political and industry leadership is required to forge consensus and a commitment to providing global energy and related infrastructure needs that address economic development, stability and environmental impacts.
•  Caterpillar supports market-based, cost efficient energy solutions to help meet  
the world’s growing energy demands. 
•  Access to affordable and dependable energy resources is critical for energy 
security, economic prosperity, and growing economies. Caterpillar supports balanced and comprehensive energy policies that include the responsible development and utilization of all energy resources, including traditional sources of energy and expanded utilization of alternative energy technologies.
•  Caterpillar supports regulatory structures that provide a competitive, technology neutral, and level playing field in which Caterpillar and our customers can operate.  2.7
Some 2.7 billion people today do not have  
adequate access to energy, and approximately 1.3 billion people do  
not have any access  
to electricity.
(continued)14
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
ouR ViewS
energy & CliMate (COnt.)
Caterpillar supports the development and use of energy efficiency 
strategies and technologies, such as distributed generation, combined heat and power, electric drives, remanufacture, clean diesel and natural gas engines.
eneRGy innoV ation
the best companies, experts, researchers, inventors and entrepreneurs 
need the freedom, the flexibility and the resources to develop clean, more secure energy – and more of it. w e encourage innovation that 
leads to new sources of energy and improved and more efficient use  
of existing, abundant resources. 
Solar t urbines, a Caterpillar subsidiary, serves as a member of the board 
of directors of the business Council for Sustainable energy (bCSe), which 
advocates for the deployment of clean energy technologies, including renewable energy, energy efficiency and natural gas. the Council promotes the development of state, regional, federal and international energy and environmental policies that encourage the use of existing clean energy technologies as an immediate way to meet the world’s growing energy demand in an environmentally sound manner.
Caterpillar is a founding member of the uK energy t echnologies  
institute (eti) a uK government/industry collaboration to accelerate the 
development of technologies that address the challenges of climate change and provision of affordable energy access. the uK is a suitable location for this work, having some of the most aggressive targets, such as an 80 percent reduction in Co
2 by 2050. the eti is developing 
scenarios and technology pathways to yield the most cost effective solutions. t o accelerate the deployment of technologies, eti has a 
$100 million per year portfolio of technology development and demon -
stration projects across a wide energy spectrum including distributed energy, wind power, marine power technologies, energy infrastructure, transport including heavy duty vehicles, carbon capture and sequestration, bio-energy and demand side management for buildings.eneRGy poVeRty
Some 2.7 billion people today do not have adequate access to energy, 
and approximately 1.3 billion people do not have any access to elec-tricity. So how do we get it to them? t oday, the technology and the 
natural resources exist to rapidly expand energy access, but how is this accomplished in a more efficient manner? 
the Copenhagen accord affirms that social and economic development 
and poverty eradication are the primary goals of developing nations. one of the biggest differences between a developing nation and  
a developed nation is access to energy – so let’s increase that  
access, help economies grow and reduce energy poverty where  
it hits the hardest.
as energy is a key requirement for sustainable progress and development, 
we need to focus our talents on reducing emissions while increasing energy access. Caterpillar does this every day by leveraging technology to improve air quality and limit environmental impact. with distributed generation solutions, utilizing diesel and natural gas engines – and alternative fuels – Caterpillar is positioned to get power where it needs to be. Cat
® equipment helps meet the demands of the mining and  
resources industries, getting raw materials to where they need to be to create increased access to power. Coal is an important fuel – both today and for the future. Coal is available in the quantity and locations needed to satisfy the world’s energy needs. all energy sources are  
important and should be developed, but coal is abundantly available and has the scale to meet the primary energy needs of the world’s rising population and expected economic growth over the next several decades. 
Studies show that coal is about 70 percent cleaner burning today 
(from a particulate matter (pm), oxides of nitrogen (nox), sulfur  
dioxide (So
2) and mercury perspective) than just a couple of decades 
ago. new coal-fired power plants are 15-45 percent more efficient than the oldest ones in operation around the world today. Carbon capture and sequestration technologies that can remove most of the Co
2  
(continued)15
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
ouR ViewS
energy & CliMate (COnt.)
emissions are being demonstrated today. efforts are needed to  
commercialize this technology around the globe as part of a path for low 
carbon-emitting energy. this energy can help the largest populations that don’t have reliable energy today. add new nuclear build outs (carbon-free electricity), new natural gas reserves, plus renewable energy sources like wind, photovoltaic, tidal and others, and you start to see a portfolio of power that helps eliminate energy poverty, raise standards of living and propel economic growth with less impact on the environment. this leads to more investment in research and development for new technol-ogies that develop cleaner and more efficient fuel sources. eliminating energy poverty is a vision that can be achieved.
Global Climate ChanGe
Global climate change has many environmental and commercial 
implications, and a number of governmental and intergovernmental organizations are implementing mechanisms in an attempt to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. w e support intelligent, responsible public 
policies addressing climate and energy policies and are: 
•  Investing in emissions reduction technologies that are important 
to our customers and represent significant areas of opportunity for our business.
•  Committed to development and deployment of technologies such as combined heat and power, waste gas conversion to useful energy, clean diesel engines and carbon capture and sequestration. 
•  An active supporter of policies and flexible mechanisms that harness 
the marketplace to drive innovation, mobilize investment and allow the sharing of clean, efficient technologies. 
•  Encouraging the coordination of domestic and international programs to 
maximize the use of flexible, proven mechanisms to reduce emissions. 
through these activities, Caterpillar will continue making significant contributions to efforts designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.opeRatinG in a CaRbon-ConStRained woRld 
at Caterpillar we believe in the importance of providing energy-efficient 
products and technologies for our customers and our facilities, as well as advocating for policy solutions that are both environmentally and economically sustainable.
Caterpillar works with policymakers on developing economy-wide 
emissions reduction programs in the united States that work in conjunction with international efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
many countries already control greenhouse gas emissions, and more 
jurisdictions are evaluating plans to do so. just as business cannot operate efficiently under 50 different sets of state standards in the united States, business will struggle with vastly differing approaches around the world. that is why we’ll continue to advocate a comprehensive international approach that encompasses emissions reduction commitments from all major economies. w e know we cannot reduce carbon emissions 
in isolation. w e must look at the issue with an eye toward energy security, 
energy availability, technology, price and global competitiveness.
innovation will be key to developing new energy sources, and we 
will continue to call for policies that encourage innovation to improve the use of existing energy resources – particularly coal, oil and natural gas. we cannot afford to overlook any solution.
despite the divergent proposals under discussion worldwide – everything from carbon caps and carbon taxes to strict regulatory control of emissions – we all agree that technology plays a key role in any successful strategic approach to reduce emissions. the private sector must take the lead in developing and deploying technology solutions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Regulatory structures should provide a competitive, technology-neutral and level playing field. w e believe 
we should not disparage any solution that hasn’t been fully developed. 
ultimately, unilateral action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions will  
not be successful. w e need national policies that integrate well into  
a global system of emissions reduction initiatives. Greenhouse gas  
emissions reductions are about improvements in energy efficiency –  
that is where the most immediate and measurable benefits can occur. we support legislation that’s both environmentally effective and  
economically sustainable. and we encourage a constructive dialogue and a proactive approach to providing energy safely, efficiently and affordably to the billions of people that inhabit our planet.
it’s a tall order – but one that’s critical to the future of business.
16
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
ouR ViewS
Caterpillar has a  
long history of 
advocacy for free trade. Our support 
comes not from the 
perspective of any one country, but from a global context. 
grOwth & trade
adVoCatinG fRee and open maRKetS
Caterpillar has long believed that the pursuit of business excellence and profit in a 
climate of free enterprise, free trade and unencumbered competition is the best means for efficient development and distribution of goods and services. further, we believe such international exchange promotes better understanding across borders and cultures, leading to a more peaceful world. the enormous rise in post-w orld w ar ii 
gross domestic product and living standards in countries participating significantly in international commerce has demonstrated such benefits. in contrast, countries that have been isolated as a result of lack of infrastructure, protectionist policies, conflict or economic sanctions have not enjoyed these advantages.
the economic growth brought about by international trade is essential for poverty 
reduction, but it doesn’t come without challenges. Chief among them is the need  
to balance economic, environmental and social policies in support of sustainable development. when this happens, sustainable development can become a shared objective and provide a common frame of reference – allowing environmental and trade policymakers to engage stakeholders, analyze issues and evaluate policy more efficiently. 
Caterpillar has a long history of advocacy for free trade. our support comes not from 
the perspective of any one country, but from a global context. w e believe that  
companies compete best in a free trade environment. when trade barriers are removed, we can better meet our global customer needs and grow more efficiently. our suppliers benefit because they can more efficiently satisfy our global sourcing requirements. our employees benefit from a higher standard of living as they have access to more product choices at lower prices. because open markets lead to improved competitiveness, we believe free trade also allows us to provide more and better job opportunities. 
(continued)17
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
ouR ViewS
grOwth & trade (COnt.)
Caterpillar will continue to promote policies that reduce – or, better yet, 
eliminate – trade and investment barriers. at the same time, we will continue to speak out against protectionist policies. w e believe that 
developed countries should adopt policies that allow the benefits of the global economy to be extended to developing countries. Caterpillar also recognizes that in many of the world’s poorest countries, humanitarian and development assistance is necessary to fight disease, improve living conditions, combat corruption and provide the know-how to drive economic growth and trade. w e support the goals of initiatives aimed at 
increasing economic growth and reducing poverty in developing countries.
haRmonizinG Global StandaRdS
on an international level, Caterpillar is actively involved in developing  
international Standards organization (iSo) criteria and chairs the 
committee that develops industry consensus standards for earthmoving equipment, including standards for visibility, rollover protection structures and braking. our global standards and regulations team works closely with these organizations to enhance machine safety standards worldwide. Caterpillar provides input to regulatory agencies to help ensure the smooth introduction of new technologies. w e design products 
and services that help people and communities as they strive to create better lives for themselves. as the global population continues to grow, the availability of natural resources may diminish; and the need for Cat
® products and services as enablers of sustainable development 
becomes even more important.
Caterpillar regularly makes its management and technical expertise 
available to regulatory bodies in advisory roles and to provide technical assistance as new product standards are developed. these activities include participation and leadership roles in organizations such as the iSo; membership in governmental and nongovernmental delegations to international bodies such as the international maritime organization; participation in formal european union industry expertise panels and participation in federal advisory Committees chartered under the u.S. environmental protection agency.
18
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
ouR ViewS
Our Vision: 
safely home.  everyone.  every day.
™ 
peOple & planet
Safety
Caterpillar is dedicated to the safety of everyone at Caterpillar, including our extended 
family of employees, dealers, suppliers and customers. Caterpillar’s Global health & Safety team plays a key role in providing expertise and support to Caterpillar operations worldwide. Caterpillar also offers the Safety .Cat.Com
™ website for environment, 
health and safety training. this site provides access to a wide range of interactive online training courses for safety, health and the environment – in full support of our vision: Safely home. everyone. every day.™ the low-cost solutions offered through this safety training library will help users of industry-specific equipment create a culture of safety on any job site. 
enViRonment
Caterpillar contributes to sound environmental stewardship in communities where  
it operates. w e establish and adhere to environmentally compliant policies and 
practices in product design, engineering and manufacturing in all of our facilities 
worldwide. Caterpillar’s environment, health & Safety assurance framework helps ensure that Caterpillar complies with applicable laws and regulations, as well as remains an upstanding corporate citizen and good neighbor. Successfully identifying and managing environmental issues protects the environment we all live in and makes good business sense.
19
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
eneRGy
energy
the world’s increasing demand for energy will encourage discovery of new supplies, 
conservation of energy, use of alternative/renewable energy sources and the environmentally efficient use of existing energy sources.
while working to increase access to energy, Caterpillar focuses on reducing 
environmental impacts by boosting the energy efficiency of its products, services and solutions.20
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
eneRGy – poweR GeneRation
new Cat® 3516C-hd d iesel  
Generator Set
in this seCtiOn
Caterpillar power Solutions for 
Reliable energy Sources
Brightening p rOspeC ts 
arOund the wO rld
aS eleCtRiCity uSe RiSeS, CateRpillaR iS meetin G eme RGenCy, 
Standby and Continuou S poweR GeneRation needS with an 
unpa Ralleled line of die Sel GeneRatoR SetS, natuRal GaS GeneRatoR  
SetS and inteGRated poweR SyStemS. 
in 2011, we announced the purchase of mwm holding Gmbh (mwm), a 
leading global supplier of sustainable, natural gas and alternative-fuel engines. the acquisition of mwm will enable Caterpillar to significantly expand customer options for sustainable power generation solutions and  
help its customers become more efficient.21
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
eneRGy – poweR GeneRation
new Cat® 3516C-hd diesel generatOr set
the new Cat® 3516C-hd diesel generator set offers highly efficient 
fuel consumption rates and lower emissions. the generator set is 
certified to meet u.S. environmental protection agency (epa) t ier 4 
interim standards. these emissions regulations set by the epa call for dramatic reductions in outputs of carbon monoxide, hydrocarbons, particulate matter and oxides of nitrogen.
“this is the first diesel generator set producing more than 2mw 
that has been certified to t ier 4 interim standards,” said Robert 
Koval, investment projects general manager of Caterpillar electric power division. “t ier 4 interim certified generator sets are required 
for high-hour applications, such as rock crushers, peaking plants and remote installations. our emergency standby customers will also realize benefits with this generator set, particularly in areas with stringent local standards. the lower emissions from the tier 4 interim generator set should eliminate or minimize the 
amount of additional aftertreatment needed to comply with local emissions regulations.” 
the Cat
® 3516C-hd offers flexible packaging options for easy 
installation and optimal performance, while minimizing impact 
on generator set space requirements and maintenance hours. the generator set is also available with a full range of factory designed and tested attachments to meet customer requirements.to provide customers with the most economical and efficient 
emissions solutions, Caterpillar continues to develop generator sets engineered to deliver flexibility, expandability, reliability and cost-effectiveness, while at the same time addressing the emission reduction levels required by epa regulations. 
Ranging from 455 kw to 2500 kw , Caterpillar now offers the 
widest range of t ier 4 interim certified generator sets in the  
industry. t o support these products, Cat
® dealers and technicians 
are factory trained in emissions technology installation and service.“ This is the first diesel generator set  
producing more than 2MW that has been 
certified to Tier 4 Interim standards.”  
–  Robert Koval, investment projects general manager of  
Caterpillar Electric Power Division22
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
eneRGy – poweR GeneRation
Caterpillar pOwer sOlutiOns fOr  
reliaBle energy sOurCes
when the power goes out, it’s often Cat® emergency generator 
sets that are responsible for providing back-up power. 
fulfilling this role can be critical. the american hospital in dubai, 
for instance, uses Cat® C175-16 diesel-powered generator sets to 
provide standby and uninterruptible power supply (upS) to sustain the reliable and high-quality energy supply required for patient care and diagnostics. the C175-16 generator sets combine high power density with efficient operation and low emissions. the Cat
® 
upS system uses an energy storage system that is immediately available to power up a critical load in the event of grid outage.elsewhere, Cat
® generator sets provide essential back-up power. 
in puerto Rico, the wholesale fuel supplier Cabo Rojo Gas uses Cat® 
generator sets to ensure its fuel pumps at five distribution centers are always working during the june to november hurricane  
season, delivering uninterrupted supplies of gasoline, diesel fuel and propane to homes, businesses and hospitals on the island. access to gas and propane can be a matter of life and death for island residents during a long disruption of primary power.
in the mtwara and lindi regions of t anzania, Cat
® generator sets 
also perform a vital function. natural and agricultural resources 
in the area are plentiful, but economic development had been hampered by an unreliable hydroelectric power supply that was hit by drought conditions and other natural catastrophes. now, however, nine Cat
® generator sets provide power generation for 
the first privately supplied electric power franchise in t anzania, 
supplied by offshore gas supplies. this has at last given local  
industries such as cashew nut factories a chance to grow, based on the assurance that power will be available. adequate and 
reliable electric power to the region provides the crucial foundation for economic and commercial development.
the reliability and low fuel consumption and operating costs of 
Cat
® equipment are factors that drive demand for our products 
around the world. in 2011, we secured an order for eight generator sets to provide emergency back-up power for gas compression stations that service the asian Gas pipeline, which runs from turkmenistan and Kazakhstan to China and will be completed in 
2014. the pipeline, which will deliver 40 billion cubic meters of natural gas – 2 percent of China’s energy requirements – needs the generator sets to keep supplies going around the clock to industry and homes. The American Hospital in Dubai uses Cat® 
C175-16 diesel-powered generator sets to 
provide standby and uninterruptible power 
supply (UPS).23
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
eneRGy – alteRnatiVe/Renewable eneRGy
COnverting pOwerful  
alternatives
CateRpillaR helpS CuStomeRS pRoduCe poweR effiCiently – fRom 
alteRnatiVe and Renewable fuelS, SuCh aS methane fRom landfillS, liVeStoCK manuRe, SewaGe tReatment and undeRGRound Coal mineS.
we offer financing solutions through Cat financial, to build and maintain  
landfill gas, anaerobic digester and combined heat and power projects that 
generate alternative/renewable energy and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Cat financial is expanding efforts to support companies in other types of alternative/renewable energy projects, such as gasification and coal  
mine methane.
Cat w orld t rade gives Caterpillar customers an alternative way to finance the 
purchase of equipment and services, through the creation of nontraditional 
trade agreements. for example, Cat w orld t rade helps the forestry industry 
market woodchips and other biomass to renewable energy producers and also supports landfill operators, dairy farmers and other Caterpillar customers who convert biogas to energy. t o maximize the efficient use of natural resources, 
Cat world t rade sells ferrous and nonferrous scrap to integrated steel mills and 
mini-mills. Reusable or recyclable materials including specialty alloys, copper and castings can also go to market through the Cat w orld t rade global network.Coke oven Gas
in this seCtiOn
wind t urbines and  
Remanufacturing
24
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
eneRGy – alteRnatiVe/Renewable eneRGy
COke Oven gas
for many years it was common practice in China for enterprises 
producing coal derivative chemicals and products to bake the coke oven gas out of the coal and then emit it into the atmosphere, missing an opportunity to turn waste into energy and at the same time reduce emissions.
Caterpillar saw an opportunity to turn that wasted oven gas into 
energy – by burning it in a gas turbine. the key engineering challenge was not only to find an efficient way of using the coke oven gas, which is a by-product of the manufacture of coke for steel making, but to burn out some of the contaminants it harbors – such as hydrogen sulfide, tars and other chemicals.
a small group of Caterpillar experts got to work, and after two 
years of development, their first gas turbine power generation package was brought into operation at the Shandong jinneng Coal Gasification plant. the combined heat and power (Chp) system, 
operated by a Solar
™ gas turbine, operates at approximately 
68 percent efficiency and uses approximately 26 percent less fuel than equivalent separate heat and power. the Chp system is estimated to reduce Co
2 emissions by 40,000 metric tons 
per year. this reduction is equivalent to removing the annual 
emissions from approximately 6,600 cars. 
by the end of 2011, Caterpillar had turbines up and running that 
eliminates the equivalent of 540,000 metric tons of Co2 emissions 
per year. the application is sustainable in several ways. first, pollutants are reduced in the combustion process. Second, electricity is produced which allows reduction in the coal consumed (and the emissions generated) by the local power plant. third, the exhaust heat from the turbine is used to make steam to quench the coke and is used in other chemical processes at the plant. Shandong jinneng Coal Gasification Co. ltd. became the first company outside the u.S. to win the u.S. environmental protection agency’s international Chp a ward for exceptional leadership in 
energy use and management.
Caterpillar subsidiary, Solar t urbines, helps customers use 
coke oven gases as a fuel for highly efficient Chp generation. 
Solar
™ turbines are helping Chinese coke makers recycle the 
gases into much-needed energy, while reducing overall impact on the environment.
Solar t urbines is now a leader for coke oven gas projects and 
currently has inquiries for coke oven gas projects all over the 
world. the success in China helps position us as a contender for a growing number of natural gas fired Chp projects currently being developed in that market.
25
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
eneRGy – alteRnatiVe/Renewable eneRGy
wind turBines and reManufaCturing
in the fall of 2011, Caterpillar reached a 10-year, global agreement 
to remanufacture wind turbine components made by Vestas wind Systems, a danish wind turbine manufacturer that has 44,500 of its turbines installed and working around the world.
Caterpillar will supply Vestas with remanufacturing services 
that will return end-of-life components to “same-as-when-new” condition in terms of reliability, durability and performance. this reduces waste, minimizes the need for raw materials to produce new parts, and lowers costs.
Vestas wind turbine components will be remanufactured  
using Caterpillar’s existing facilities, equipment and suppliers.  
Remanufacturing will begin in Caterpillar’s north america 
facilities, followed by facilities in europe and asia.the environmental and cost benefit of remanufacturing components is recognized globally. demand from other customers is rising, and Caterpillar is expanding to meet that need. 
in may 2011, Caterpillar opened a facility in Singapore that will 
provide remanufactured components for large off-highway trucks and other mining equipment. the facility will have advanced remanufacturing technologies on site to provide high quality,  
durable products. t ogether with a remanufacturing facility in 
Shanghai, China, Caterpillar provides an exceptional combination of availability, cost and regional support for asia-pacific customers.
Sustainability is also built into the Singapore facility itself, 
through a number of features such as energy use that will  
significantly reduce environmental impact. in recognition of these innovations, the facility received a Green mark Gold plus award from Singapore’s building Construction authority. 
in august 2011, Caterpillar announced plans to significantly 
expand its remanufacturing facility in w est fargo, n.d. the  
expansion will help meet strong demand for remanufactured drivetrain components in the mining sector. operations are expected to begin in june 2012. when the expansion is complete and fully operational, it is anticipated Caterpillar will add roughly 250 additional workers over a three-year period, bringing the total workforce to approximately 550 in w est fargo. the w est 
fargo facility has produced remanufactured components for the past 40 years.
26
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
eneRGy – Clean & effiCient pRoduCtS
driving Better  
perfOrManCe
Global demand foR eneRGy , RiSinG fuel pRiCeS and tiGhteR emiSSionS  
ReGulationS aRe ChallenGinG ouR CuStomeRS to woRK moRe effiCiently. 
Caterpillar is responding by enhancing the efficiency of its equipment and  
improving product technologies. Caterpillar is also meeting the u.S. environmental 
protection agency t ier 4 / european union Stage iiib / japan mlit Step 4 product 
development challenge. our customers will realize the value of our updated machines through features such as improved fuel economy, shorter cycle times, greater operator visibility and improved ergonomics.in this seCtiOn
Revolutionary dozer is Clean and efficient
emissions Control t echnology for 
diesel and natural Gas engines
timber harvesting with  
more horsepower and  
lower emissions27
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
eneRGy – Clean & effiCient pRoduCtS
revOlutiOnary dOzer is Clean and effiCient
the Cat®  d7e is a midsize earthmoving vehicle in a category 
commonly referred to as ‘dozers.’ when it comes to moving 
earth in a more efficient fashion, the d7e electric drive track-type tractor is – well, earth moving.
in 350,000 hours of monitored activity by the d7e through the end 
of 2011, more than 840,000 gallons (2,680 metric tons) of diesel fuel were saved, reducing Co
2 emissions by more than 18 million 
pounds (8,500 metric tons). 
thanks to a revolutionary diesel-electric drivetrain – the first of its 
kind – the d7e’s fuel consumption is between 10 and 30 percent lower than the conventionally powered d7R Series 2 that it replaced; while due to its speed and power-to-ground efficiency, the d7e moves 10 percent more material each hour. overall, this adds up to approximately a 25 percent improvement in material moved per gallon of fuel. lower fuel consumption also results in lower lifetime greenhouse gas emissions. the d7e is designed to consume fewer resources during its working life, to reduce the impact on the environment while preserving valuable resources for future generations.the revolutionary electric drive power train has 60 percent fewer moving parts than a drivetrain with a powershift transmission. oil and filters need to be changed less often, and intervals between routine maintenance are extended. all this saves resources. 
the modular air conditioner in the d7e is estimated to reduce  
refrigerant leaks four-fold as a result of elimination of the belt  
driven air conditioning compressor and air conditioning hoses;  
it also dramatically reduced the number of lines and connections. the d7e has also reaped business benefits for Caterpillar. 
most customers and operators like the machine’s efficiency and productivity, continuously variable transmission, smooth directional changes, superior visibility, spacious and quiet cab and exceptional uptime. 
the full value of the technology developed on the d7e is yet to 
be realized as this breakthrough technology is applied to other Caterpillar products.
28
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
eneRGy – Clean & effiCient pRoduCtS
eMissiOns COntrOl teChnOlOgy fOr  
diesel and natural gas engines
the pinedale anticline project area (papa) is one of the largest gas fields in the continental u.S. providing natural gas energy. the field is located in the wyoming Sublette County Green River Valley in pinedale, wyo., and covers approximately 197,000 acres of federal, state and private lands.
the papa contains natural gas reserves estimated at up to  
40 trillion cubic feet (1.1 cubic meters), with 20 – 25 trillion  
cubic feet (0.6 – 0.7 cubic meters) of that recoverable – enough 
to supply 10 million u.S. homes for more than 30 years.
papa requires drilling engines in the anticline to be equipped with 
Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) systems capable of achieving greater than 90 percent oxides of nitrogen (nox) reduction, and required reductions to be met by january 1, 2012. drilling rigs that remain unequipped with SCR, or are unable to pass quarterly emissions demonstration tests, will not be allowed to operate.
Cat dealer wyoming machinery offered the CleanaiR Systems 
e-pod as a retrofit solution for drilling rigs in the pinedale, wyo., oil fields. the e-pod demonstrates a constant 90 percent plus nox reduction. Since total emissions output per year for each rig are regulated, e-pod use enables the drill rig owners to operate longer hours. at the end of 2011, 42 e-pod systems have been installed on 14 drilling rigs in the pinedale, w yo., oil fields. the e-pod is an all-in-one emissions control unit utilizing SCR coupled with diesel oxidation catalysts (doCs) or diesel particulate filters (dpfs). the product features proprietary technology housed within a stainless steel silencer shell. using iron zeolite SCR catalysts, the e-pod offers dramatic reductions of nox, particulate matter (pm), commonly known as soot, hydrocarbons (hC) and carbon monoxide (Co). the e-pod with dpfs reduces nox by more than 95 percent, pm by greater than 85 percent, and hC and Co by up to 95 percent. the e-pod with dpfs offers t ier 4 final 
equivalent levels for t ier 1 and t ier 2 diesel stationary engines, 
and some unregulated engines. as an integrated system, each e-pod can be moved by one service truck, versus competitive SCR systems that require additional tear down and setup. Reduced emissions enable the customer to operate for more hours, increasing overall productivity.
29
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
eneRGy – Clean & effiCient pRoduCtS
tiMBer h arvesting w ith M Ore  
hOrsep Ower and lO wer eM issi Ons
our new Cat® wheel feller bunchers – machines that harvest 
timber – deliver more horsepower but use less fuel. this means 
lower emissions (reducing impact on the environment) and reduced operating costs (good for our customers). 
the change is the result of advances in Caterpillar’s engine 
technology and machine design. the C Series engine generates power at lower revolutions per minute than previous models, and a new technology called powerdirect plus delivers power selectively, where and when it is needed. this optimizes machine efficiency, performance and productivity. the engine also meets the u.S. environmental protection agency tier 4 interim and eu Stage iiib emissions standards. y et the 
changes needed to meet these requirements were made without compromising uptime or shortening the life of the vehicle. 
when designing the new wheel feller bunchers, our focus was 
on keeping the machine cool, which improves performance and fuel efficiency. the oversized, hydraulically driven fan spins at a slower speed overall and only turns as fast as needed to keep temperatures at the right level. in colder weather or when the machine is first started, the fan spins more slowly to conserve fuel and reduce noise. 
as well as maximizing energy efficiency, the new Cat
® feller 
bunchers are designed to conserve resources. all major parts 
are designed to be rebuilt, reducing waste and replacement costs. with fewer parts and longer component life, there is less to replace or throw away.
operator safety has also been a key consideration in the upgrade. 
with the new design, the engine is placed at the back, producing better weight distribution and balance between the front and rear axles. this revolutionary design provides exceptional stability – even when carrying big pieces of timber on steep or uneven  
terrain. a three-piece front windshield, large rear windows and skylight give the operator excellent visibility.
the new Cat
® feller buncher C Series is also the first and only wheel 
feller buncher that can be fueled on the ground. in addition, the 
engine, hydraulic pumps and key components can be accessed from ground level, enabling safer and easier servicing. 
30
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
eneRGy – ReSouRCe eXtRaCtion
in this seCtiOn
autonomous mining t rucks 
drive efficiency and Save energy
efficient t ruck built  
Closer to Customers
Sustainability in mining
Bringing it up right
the Rapid deVelopment of the woRld’S emeRGinG maRKetS iS dRiVinG 
an inCReaSinG need foR mined CommoditieS, aS billionS of people aRound the woRld SeeK to impRoVe theiR StandaRdS of liVinG.
Caterpillar is engaged in the mining industry at every level, working alongside 
customers to help them mine efficiently and productively while protecting the health and safety of miners.
in 2011, Caterpillar completed the acquisition of bucyrus international, inc.,  
expanding its leadership and support for customers in the mining industry. the 
acquisition enables Caterpillar to offer the broadest range of surface and under -
ground mining products and solutions to customers in the industry and to help those customers to become even more efficient.31
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
eneRGy – ReSouRCe eXtRaCtion
autOnOMOus Mining truCks drive effiCienCy and save energy
the idea of a fleet of autonomous trucks working round the 
clock at a mine site while a technician supervises them from the comfort of a control room may appear to be a work of science fiction. but in one part of the world it will soon become fact.
Starting in third quarter 2012, six Cat
® 793f autonomous trucks 
will begin working at the Solomon iron ore mine run by fortescue 
metals Group in w estern australia. at full operational capacity, 
it is anticipated the Solomon mine will have approximately  
45 autonomous trucks by 2015 – all operating without an  
operator onboard. 
but there’s more to autonomy than just trucks. Cat Command for 
hauling utilizes wireless communication, global positioning and a broader suite of technologies, known as Cat
® mineStar™ System, to 
enable remote monitoring of the trucks while they go about their business of collecting loads and dumping them in assigned positions. the large mining trucks follow assigned lanes through an ever-changing map of the mine, follow the best path from where they are to where the system tells them to go and even stop when something unexpected appears in the road in front of them. the result of all these technologies working together is safer, more predictable and more productive hauling operations.
onboard technology ensures optimum efficiency – programming 
trucks to operate exactly as intended, reducing use of fuel  
and wear and tear. one of the greatest efficiencies in mining processes results when there’s less energy used. autonomous mining trucks use energy in a more effective way, lessening impact on the environment.  
there are other sustainability points. t raditional machines stop 
periodically for operator breaks and shift changes. Command for 
hauling improves productivity by running continuously day and night, only stopping for fueling and planned maintenance intervals. autonomous operations bring fundamental changes to mining processes, making the entire operation, not just the trucks, more efficient while reducing infrastructure needs and lessening the impact on the environment even further.
Caterpillar is developing autonomous versions of other mining 
machines. this industry-changing technology offers our mining customers a competitive advantage.
32
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
eneRGy – ReSouRCe eXtRaCtion
effiCient truCk Built ClOser tO CustOMers
Caterpillar has launched in-country production of Cat® 773e trucks 
in tosno, Russia, to support the demand for mining trucks across 
Russia and the Commonwealth of independent States. the trucks 
will be used by customers to extract resources vital to accelerating infrastructure development in the coming decades.  
“more than half the world’s population now lives in cities, 
and the population of the world is expected to grow more than 60 million a year for the next 30 years. the demand that is expected to be placed on mining, which provides the raw materials for building housing, infrastructure, supplying clean water and other things that make cities work, is vast,” Caterpillar Group president Steve w unning explained.
the 773e will be sold to extractive industries across the country. by building the trucks closer to mining customers, Caterpillar will reduce delivery costs as well as reduce the environmental impact of shipping parts. Caterpillar will also be able to provide better after-sale maintenance, increasing product life and reducing waste. new jobs will also be created to support the 773e  
manufacturing operations.
the 773e, which achieves emissions levels equivalent to those of 
eu Stage ii emissions standards, is also very efficient. for a start, it can move more material per unit of fuel. fuel injection is  
electronically controlled to match specific load requirements.  
an economy mode reduces fuel use, engine noise and operating costs in conditions when the vehicle is at a standstill, waiting to be loaded.the hydraulic tank has been constructed to be compatible with biodegradable oil. the 773e is also built to be rebuilt. once a component reaches the end of its service life, it can be remanu -
factured. this makes both economic and environmental sense because it reduces waste and consumption of raw materials, and provides a lower cost to the customer.
33
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
eneRGy – ReSouRCe eXtRaCtion
sustainaBility in Mining
when it comes to improving sustainability performance, there is 
more that Caterpillar can do for its customers than providing energy efficient equipment. across the world we are expanding our support for customers in the mining industry by coming up with new solutions to reduce costs, save resources and reduce environmental impacts.
at Cargill deicing t echnology’s underground salt mine, for  
instance, Cat dealer milton Cat developed a solution to extend 
the life of machinery – enabling the mine to be more efficient while reducing waste.
Cargill deicing t echnology’s Cayuga mine is located 701 meters 
(2,300 feet) under a picturesque lake in new y ork. Getting parts 
and machines into the mine can be a challenging endeavor. in 
fact, when it’s time to repair or replace large pieces of equipment, they must be dismantled above ground and then reassembled in the mine. 
Cat
® Certified Rebuilds (CCRs) were selected to improve the 
performance of the Cayuga mine fleet of Cat® R1700G load-
haul-dump (lhd) loaders. a CCR typically costs approximately 
60 percent of the cost of buying a new machine. and the CCR could be done without ever removing the machine from its underground home.CCRs take advantage of the “second life” built into the Cat
® lhds. 
and for the first time ever, the rebuilds would be completed underground – a challenge that has been met and that is now a recognized solution for other underground fleets.
at boliden mining company’s aitik mine in Sweden, Caterpillar has 
helped improve productivity and reduced environmental impact by being the first mine in the world to put into production the new Cat
® 795f aC trucks on a site in the arctic Circle. the 345-ton 
electric drive trucks are so big they have increased the payload capacity dramatically, contributing to a significant boost in annual production to what is already one of the largest copper mines in europe. 
(continued)
34
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
eneRGy – ReSouRCe eXtRaCtion
sustainaBility in Mining (COnt.)
productivity is also enhanced by the 795’s Cat® C175 diesel engine. 
the Cat® C175 meets the european union’s emissions requirements, 
yet it delivers 2,535 kilowatts (3,400 horsepower) of power.
Caterpillar is also helping boliden reduce its environmental impact at 
the aitik mine by providing training on the importance of avoiding contamination of fuel. the training draws on the expertise of Caterpillar technicians from around the world and emphasizes that better management of hydraulic oil filters, transmission fluid and axle oil extends the life of many components, improving energy efficiency.
in China, the Guangxi aluminum mine owned by Chalco has been  
rewarded many times for its achievements in environmental protection. 
the site has achieved significant social, economic and environmental benefits, setting new benchmarks for mining enterprises across the country. zhou zhiqiang, business supervisor at the site’s equipment administration center, says the mine has come to rely on Cat
® 
equipment’s low failure rate and high availability. productivity and availability have a direct impact on work performance. The Cat® C175 meets the European Union’s 
emissions requirements, yet it delivers  
2,535 kilowatts (3,400 horsepower) of power.
the philosophy of “mining with minimal environmental impact” has been put into practice with significant results. Chalco’s advanced management methodology and the strong sense of responsibility for protecting the environment set a role model for China’s mining companies. Caterpillar and Chalco are working together on various projects all over the world.
35
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
eneRGy – CuStomeR SolutionS 
in this seCtiOn
locomotive Repowers  
Save Resources
fleet management drives  efficiency and Reduces w aste
saving energy  On the JOB
aS eleCtRiCity uSe RiSeS, CateRpillaR iS poSitioned to pRomote 
SuStainable pRoGReSS by helpinG CuStomeRS be moRe effiCient and to enable GRowth and deVelopment in SuStainable wayS.
Caterpillar takes a holistic view of customer sites to improve overall efficiency 
and safety, focusing on a life cycle approach that evaluates the environmental, economic, social and regulatory implications of our products and services throughout their lives. our products and services provide total solutions to our customers’ needs. w e help them increase revenue, increase efficiency, reduce 
cost and reduce environmental impact.
as technology continues to develop, Caterpillar is constantly refining advanced 
technologies to help make customers’ equipment more productive and efficient, and to help customers more effectively manage equipment fleets and operations – for efficiencies in time, fuel burn and emissions reductions. w e also help our 
customers reduce costs by taking near end-of-life parts and restoring them to original engineering specifications through remanufacturing, an advanced form of recycling.36
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
eneRGy – CuStomeR SolutionS 
lOCOMOtive repOwers save resOurCes
Canadian pacific Railway’s locomotive fleet has long operated 
on one of the world’s most famous cross-continental railroads. while the fleet has been in operation for years and beaten a well-worn path on service routes, it does not meet modern day sustainability standards – nor has it remained particularly efficient or reliable. it would seem logical to consign the fleet to the scrap yard and buy new stock.
but replacement locomotives can be expensive – and wasteful. So 
Caterpillar’s wholly owned subsidiaries, progress Rail Services and electro-motive diesel, have stepped in to help the railway repower its locomotives with fuel-efficient engines with reduced emissions.
progress Rail Services, electro-motive diesel, and Canadian 
pacific Railway are in the process of reconfiguring up to 500 locomotives dating back to the 1950s, eliminating the need to produce more than 15,000 tons (13,600 metric tons) of steel for new locomotives and the generation of more than 18,000 tons (16,300 metric tons) of Co
2. 
initially, the locomotive modernization and repowering effort will reconfigure 150 locomotives built in the early 1950s. the locomotives will be modernized by reusing 25 percent of the original content and repowered by upgrading to run on biodiesel. the repowered engines will meet the latest emissions regulations.
there are plans to modernize 350 more locomotives that date 
from the 1970s. the total order of 500 locomotives will result in significant fuel and maintenance savings.progress Rail has also been working with pacific harbor line to repower 16 locomotives that service the ports of long beach and los angeles, Calif. thanks to a new Cat
® 3512C hd engine and a 
custom-made diesel particulate filter, the repowered locomotives not only cost less than new models, the repowered locomotives also reduce emissions of particulate matter by around 90 percent compared to the older model. this is an important consideration in the los angeles basin area, where there are strict requirements on exhaust emissions. by using repurposed steel and repowering with new engines, the project will save approximately 53 tons (48 metric tons) of new steel per locomotive, the production of which would have generated approximately 60 tons (54 metric tons) of Co
2 per locomotive.
in addition to the benefits in energy and materials efficiency and reduced emissions, the projects have been well received by customers, and have given Caterpillar a competitive edge over companies providing new locomotives. even better, the repowered locomotives can eventually be upgraded again, meaning that the character of the old rolling stock can be retained for decades to come.
37
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
eneRGy – CuStomeR SolutionS 
fleet ManageMent drives effiCienCy and reduCes w aste
Caterpillar takes a holistic view of its customer sites to increase 
productivity and improve sustainability. w orking with customers 
and Cat® dealers to carefully manage the fleet of Cat® machines 
working a site, Caterpillar job Site Solutions helps customers improve fuel consumption, reduce emissions and increase safety. the lifecycle of equipment is also maximized through component and full machine rebuilds. job Site Solutions drives fuel efficiency for our customers by making sites as efficient as possible through improvements in site planning, equipment updates, right-sizing of fleets and increased operator performance.
Collaborative innovation between Caterpillar, a Cat
® dealer and  
a customer of a quarry site allowed the customer to reduce fuel 
consumed to produce one million tonnes of rock. the sustainability benefits have come in the form of a reduction in safety related machine fault codes, improvement in raw material usage by extending the life of equipment on site, and improvement in both the reduced demand for fuel and a significant reduction in emissions.
Safely increasing haul road speeds and improving loading cycle 
times allowed the customer to increase production by 110 tonnes per hour – resulting in a potential annual 17,500 gallon (49 metric ton) reduction in fuel consumption and representing a $75,000 savings. equally important is that the fleet achieves this additional productivity with fewer operating hours. this reduction adds another $100,000 in savings. Caterpillar fleet management technologies will also monitor more than 700 pieces of heavy machinery, including 186 earthmoving products, as work progresses to build belo monte dam, the world’s third-largest hydroelectric dam complex, in pará, brazil. the construction fleet will be managed via Cat
® product link satellite 
machine control and guidance and condition monitoring technology to enable maximum efficiency, increase productivity, reduce demand for fuel and lower owning and operating costs for the fleet. p art of the b razil government’s Growth acceleration 
program, the belo monte dam project on the Xingu River will provide 11,233 mw of renewable hydroelectric power.
Safely increasing haul road speeds and  
improving loading cycle times allowed  
the customer to increase production by  
110 tonnes per hour – resulting in a potential  
annual 17,500 gallon (49 metric ton)  reduction 
in fuel consumption and representing a 
$75,000 savings.38
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
people
peOple
Caterpillar is dedicated to the safety of its employees, dealers, customers and suppliers. 
our uniform safety standards enable our employees to identify and make safety-conscious choices, both inside and outside of the workplace. the safety of our people is primary in everything we do. w e believe that continually improving our safety practices, processes 
and performance supports the business excellence for which Caterpillar people worldwide are known.
as individual citizens, we can help solve local problems and contribute to the welfare 
and prosperity of our communities. as a global company, we can use our strength and resources to improve and rebuild communities around the world. Caterpillar’s involvement in strategic collaborations supports its commitment to conserving the earth’s resources and efforts to pursue development in new and more sustainable ways. 
a company can make important contributions to the communities in which it operates. through 
strategic philanthropy, Caterpillar seeks out issues where it has unique capabilities, 
relationships or expertise to offer – and works with nonprofit and other organizations to leverage these assets to benefit both the company and society.
Caterpillar is in a unique position to react when disaster occurs. Cat
® machines are essential 
to relief, recovery and rebuilding efforts. Cat® power generation equipment provides critical 
emergency and back-up power for businesses, hospitals and other organizations. with hundreds 
of facilities and Cat® dealers worldwide, Caterpillar can quickly respond with products, 
services, people and funds.39
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
people – leadinG in Safety
leading in safety
Caterpillar’s vision is to be recognized as a leader in our industry for creating and maintaining 
world-class workplace safety. w e are committed to improving employee safety through:
holding leaders at all levels accountable for safety improvement.  leadership toward safety  
excellence is an expectation across the enterprise.
Replicating and sharing best practices.  our injury reporting process helps to pinpoint where  
improvement is needed and which facilities need more focus.we have identified best practices – supported by tools and templates – to help Caterpillar  
facilities worldwide develop strong safety procecsses and positive cultures:
1.  managers will be held accountable for the safety performance of their organization. 
2.  Supervisors and facility leadership will perform safety walks to demonstrate their commitment 
to employees, gather information about conditions and behaviors, provide on-the-spot correction of unsafe activities and recognize efforts by employees to improve safety. 
3.  Safety will be embedded into existing business processes such as the Caterpillar production System, purchasing and performance management. 
4.  Safety issues and results will be communicated frequently, and employees will have regular opportunities to discuss safety with their supervisors. 
5.  each facility or department will maintain an incident notification and Review process for 
managers and employees. 
6.  each facility or department will develop a safety learning plan for managers and employees. 
7.  w e will carefully evaluate our performance on a regular basis and make improvements 
when necessary, using 6 Sigma to guide our activities. 
8.  each facility will develop a list of best practices to define expectations for activities and 
behaviors and establish a system for measuring performance against them. 
9.  each division will establish a program to recognize facilities with superior performance  
in safety, and each facility will establish a program to recognize safety performance at the  
department or individual level. 
we will continue to strengthen our processes to help all our facilities succeed –and ensure we 
all return home as safe and healthy as when we came to work.40
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
people – inVeStinG in CommunitieS aRound the woRld
investing in COMMunities 
arOund the wOrld
the Caterpillar foundation makes sustainable progress possible in our communities in the areas of basic human needs, disaster relief, education and environmental programs. the foundation has invested more than $500 million since its inception in 1952. historically those investments were made in and around our headquarters in central illinois. t oday, the foundation supports 
communities around the world, with 50 percent of its dollars invested in 2011 outside the united States.
investments in 2011 include: 
•  A five-year, $12.5 million grant to the World Resources Institute (WRI) to promote the concept 
of sustainable cities in China, india and brazil – countries in which rapid urbanization poses substantial challenges. wRi will develop low-carbon city models and – by partnering with up to five urban centers – will demonstrate how cities can improve energy efficiency, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and improve water quality, mobility and land use.
•  A $10,000 grant to the Winston-Salem Sustainability Resource Center to improve the energy efficiency of homes in north Carolina, u.S. through collaboration with neighborhood organiza-tions, the program provides energy consumption monitoring, educational workshops, installation of energy efficient products and technical support for homeowners.
•  A $1 million pledge to the Dealer Environmental Sustainability Fund (DESF). The DESF is a 
partnership between the Caterpillar foundation, participating Cat
® dealers worldwide and 
eligible nonprofit environmental organizations to promote environmental sustainability around the world.
•  A $3 million pledge to Water.org, a non-profit organization that aims to provide more than 218,000 people with clean water and sanitation over the next three years. 
•  A $3.5 million investment in disaster relief to assist in relief, repair and rebuilding.41
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
people – foSteRinG deVelopment aRound the woRld
fOstering develOpMent 
arOund the wOrld
Caterpillar strives to enable economic growth through infrastructure and energy development, and to 
provide solutions that preserve the planet. Cat® equipment is being used around the world to foster 
sustainable development. 
in the state of w ashington, Cat® machines can be seen at work on the largest dam removal project in 
u.S. history. in September 2011, a three-year process began to remove the elwha and Glines Canyon 
dams in order to restore a free-flowing river. w ater flow from w ashington’s elwha River has been 
limited from its source in the olympic mountains for nearly a century and lacked passage for migrating salmon. the river restoration reopens more than 70 miles of pristine spawning and rearing habitat in the elwha River and its tributaries. Salmon populations are expected to swell.
in belfast, northern ireland, Caterpillar is providing generator sets to produce alternative power from 
a former landfill site, which is planned for redevelopment into a public park. the belfast City Council identified a former landfill site – dargan Road – as a redevelopment opportunity and proposed to create a landmark public park on the site. the 220-acre Giant’s park went into operation in the summer of 2009; and future development is expected to include sports fields, a nature reserve, an educational facility and a festival space. 
to produce electricity, the methane rich landfill gas is collected from a network of gas wells and pipes. the 
gas is then pumped into generator sets to convert to electricity. Cat
® dealer finning (uK) ltd provides 
power generation and ancillary equipment to run this innovative project. five Cat® G3516a generator 
sets were supplied to produce the alternative power. each generator set is rated at 1150 kw , thus 
providing a combined output of up to 5.5 mw of continuous power to the local grid.the landfill site will generate electricity from methane for up to 20 years, producing five million watts of 
electricity for export to the local grid. this could provide power to as many as 6,000 households in the area.
in pará, brazil, Caterpillar is providing more than 700 pieces of heavy machinery, including 186 earth-
moving products, as work progresses to build belo monte dam, the world’s third-largest hydroelectric dam complex. part of the brazilian government’s Growth acceleration program, the project on the Xingu River is expected to provide 11,233 mw of renewable hydroelectric power. the brazilian govern-ment says belo monte is essential to meet brazil’s rising energy needs. upon full completion, planned for 2019, an estimated 70 percent of the dam’s energy output is expected to go toward public use.42
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
people – SuppoRtinG healthCaRe and eduCation pRoGRamS
suppOrting healthCare  
and eduCatiOn prOgraMs
Caterpillar works to build strong relationships with our customers and the communities in which they work. that is why we invest in local mining communities through educational and health initiatives. 
in South africa, many children near our customers’ mines have never had the opportunity to 
have their teeth checked by a dentist. Caterpillar sponsors a free mobile dental care service for disadvantaged children. w e ask our customers to select communities they feel would benefit 
most from the initiative. each unit also offers hygiene tips to help children care for their teeth in the future and provides a gift pack consisting of a toothbrush, rinse cup and toothpaste.
more than 2,000 children were reached in 2011. of those screened, approximately 60 percent 
were suffering from painful tooth decay. fifty percent of these needed fillings and 49 percent required tooth extraction, evidence of how important the initiative is to the dental health of local communities. 
in the andes mountains in peru, children who live near our customer’s antamina mine have limited 
educational opportunities. in 2011, Caterpillar peru initiated a program to improve children’s reading ability. with the help of a specialist institute, a program was developed that aims to raise reading comprehension by 50 percent among a group of 37 children. Results are already very promising, with reading skills improved by 38 percent in initial tests. plans are to replicate the program in other primary schools in rural areas near our customers.
benefits include:
•  improved reading comprehension among potential future employees to our customers,  
as they need to hire employees from communities near the mines operations
•  improved community and customer relationships where we do business
•  improved relationship between mines and communities43
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
2020 Goal S fo R ope Ration S
Increase energy efficiency  
by 25%25%
Design all new construction to meet Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) or comparable green building criteriaLEEDReduce recordable workplace injury rate to 0.6 and lost-time case rate due to injury to 0.15 Reduce absolute greenhouse gas emissions from existing facilities by 25%25%
Use alternative/renewable sources to meet 20% of our energy needs20%
Hold water consumption flat Eliminate waste by reducing waste generation and reusing or recycling all that remains
Provide leadership in the safety of people in, on and around our products Reduce customer greenhouse gas emissions by 20%20%
Increase customer energy  efficiency by 20%20%
Increase customer materials  
efficiency by 20%20%gOals & prOgress
Caterpillar has set aspirational, long-term goals for its operations as well as its products, services and solutions. w e believe 
these higher standards affirm our determination to lead our industry to a more sustainable future. (baseline 2006)
2020 Goal S fo R pR oduCtS, SeRViCeS & Solution SGoalS & pRoGReSS44
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
health and  
safetyopeRational Goal
Reduce recordable workplace injury rate to 0.6 and lost-time case rate due to injury to 0.15.
oVeRView
Vision zero is our commitment to creating a zero-injury workplace. w e continue to maintain 
a strong focus on personal safety and strive for zero injuries.  
in 2011, 44 percent of our facilities reached zero recordable injuries and 65 percent of our 
facilities reached zero lost-time injuries.
it’s not about the metrics, but about our people!GoalS & pRoGReSS
We have improved our Recordable Injury Frequency rate 
by 83 percent from our 2003 baseline year and 13 percent from our last reporting period.We have improved our Lost-Time Case Frequency rate by 91 percent from our 2003 baseline year and 20 percent from our last reporting period.
in 2008, Caterpillar launched a global risk assessment initiative that 
has resulted in the reduction of thousands of high-risk work elements to medium or low risk. 
in 2011, facilities renewed their focus on safety and ergonomic risk 
reduction by establishing baselines for new or modified jobs. our focus on ergonomics has driven continued reduction in ergonomic-related injuries. by year-end 2011, less than one percent of all job elements assessed remained high-risk jobs.
 <1%peRfoRmanCe SummaRy
20036.06
20081.66
20091.17
2010 20111.181.031.03Recordable Injury Frequency (RIF)
(Recordable injuries per 200,000 hours worked)
20032.90
20080.48
20090.36
2010 20110.35 0.280.28Lost-T ime Case Frequency (L TCFR)
(Lost-time injuries per 200,000 hours worked)45
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
health and s afety
eXampleSGoalS & pRoGReSS
aurOra safety plan results in fewer inJuries
the Caterpillar aurora facility in illinois reduced its Recordable injury frequency rate by more 
than 60 percent after introducing a new safety plan in january 2011.
the plan was introduced to every employee in an effort to build accountability at all levels and 
identify potential process problems. measures included:
•  Carrying out weekly shop floor incident reviews with injured employees
•  Ensuring one employee is dedicated and trained as a safety champion every mo nth
•  Reviewing safety metrics and implementing improvement plans if a target is not being met
•  Ensuring five safety observations per week are completed by employees in ea ch section
•  Challenging manufacturing engineers to eliminate the five greatest hazards a ssociated with 
injuries in each area
•  Holding all employees accountable for their own safety and the safety of thos e around them
•  Recognizing safety achievements and milestones.
execution of aurora’s 2011 Safety plan has allowed the facility to make a monumental improve-
ment in the culture and performance within the facility, at a time of ramp-up of production levels.
engineered sOlutiOn iMprOves safety at BOOnville
a project team at Caterpillar’s high performance molded products facility in boonville, mo., 
implemented an engineered solution with a more technologically advanced system for rubber processing. the facility mixes more than three million pounds (1,360 metric tons) of rubber 
annually for use in molded components designed for use on Cat
® machines.
previous manual handling of rubber strips is now automatic with the new solution, avoiding potential hazards assoicated with this process. a new layout also has stopped operators, 
passers-by, and truck traffic from getting too close to the machinery, further reducing risks for potential injury. 
the new process reduced the risks for potential injury to operators as well as to pedestrians in 
the process areas. the facility’s safety risk assessment score improved by more than 50 percent.
(continued)46
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
GoalS & pRoGReSS
full-tiMe safety COaCh BOOsts engageMent  
at BCp leiCester and stOCktOn
a full-time Safety Coach is helping Caterpillar’s leicester and Stockton facilities in the uK 
engage employees in health and safety. the coach’s role is to: 
•  Deliver formal health and safety training 
•  Offer one-on-one coaching to the workforce 
•  Provide an avenue for employees to raise concerns 
•  Provide support and training for safety improvement projects
•  Assist in risk assessments and incident investigation 
•  Attend safety meetings 
•  Prepare daily safety briefings for employees.
Since the implementation of the Safety Coach role, the safety awareness of employees has  
increased and injury rates have decreased. the role of Safety Coach has enabled improvements in the quality and quantity of focused health and safety training in the facilities, dramatically improving competency.
eleCtriCal hazard safety
Caterpillar’s dealer learning center implemented a project to ensure the safety and well-being of those working with electricity in its laboratories. the goal is to maintain a zero electrical hazard recordable injury rate. 
the learning center is responsible for the safety of Caterpillar employees and students attending 
Caterpillar training classes. the lab environment features fully functional generator sets, uninterruptible power supplies, and other equipment that poses electrical hazards. new 
safety measures include:
•  Changes in circuit breaker settings
•  Labeling equipment with electrical hazard stickers 
•  Additional personal protection equipment for use when interacting near or on  a live circuit
•  Enhancing instructor training on electrical hazards.
site pedestrian safety
in a period of 12 months and using very limited resources, Caterpillar’s Skinningrove, uK, facility 
made a major contribution to pedestrian safety around the site. w orkshops were held to 
determine the best facility layout to achieve production in the safest manner possible.
Site managers produced maps for each zone of the facility and worked out ways to keep people 
and traffic separated. plans were drawn up to create safe access for forklift trucks. where pedestrians and forklift trucks come into close proximity, special consideration was given to 
ensuring line of sight for drivers. facility layout enhancements include well-marked and well-
lighted pedestrian walkways and doorways, new locations for tooling racks, relocation of shipping ramps and marking of shipping lanes.health and s afety
eXampleS
(continued)47
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
GoalS & pRoGReSS
india faCilities BOOst safety thOugh engineering iMprOveMents
engineers at Caterpillar’s machines division in t amil nadu and power systems division in 
hosur, india, have identified new assembly processes to improve employee safety. 
in tamil nadu, installing pins into the body of off-highway trucks using hoist cylinders posed 
potential risk. assemblers were climbing onto the suspended truck body to install pins. a new 
assembly process was implemented to allow assemblers to install the pin while standing on the ground outside of the frame rails, reducing the potential for injury. 
also in t amil nadu, dollies used to hold and maneuver frames between line assembly stations 
were improved. potential risks included the large size of the dolly, potential trip hazards from 
electric cables and a problematic hydraulic system for lifting purposes. a new dolly design considerably reduced the size of the dolly, eliminated potentially dangerous cables with use of 
wireless energy transfer and replaced the hydraulic lifters with electrically powered lifters.
in hosur, manual cylinder head tightening was replaced with automatic tightening. the 
automatic tightening considerably reduced operator effort and repetitive motion and  
potentially awkward postures.
griMBergen eQuipMent inspeCtiOns inCrease safety
Caterpillar’s Grimbergen distribution Center in belgium implemented a new rack inspection program in 2011 to ensure that all the racks were installed and maintained correctly to avoid potential safety hazards. Continuous inspection of the racks will be performed to ensure the 
racks are safe and serviceable.
grenOBle prOaCtive in ergOnOMiCs and safety
a project team for the undercarriage production area at the Caterpillar france Grenoble facility 
defined the best layout adapted to types of activities required for track group assembly. Standard work activities were identified that balanced operators’ workloads, reducing walking, waiting 
and transportation times. a handling device was developed to assist operator handling and 
positioning, and platforms and tables were placed for best-height processing.health and s afety
eXampleS48
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
energy  
efficiencyGoalS & pRoGReSS
2006 2008 2009 2010 20112,047
2,047
1,6391,5411,754
1,465Dollars of revenue/absolute
gigajoules energy use
(Baseline: 2006)25%opeRational Goal
increase energy efficiency by 25 percent.
oVeRView
energy efficiency is a continually evolving field, and we will evaluate our metric in the future 
if standards become available. individual projects will be launched as identified through research and analysis.
an enterprise-level energy management team was formed in 2011.
peRfoRmanCe SummaRy
note:  data does not include facilities acquired after june 1, 2010, or Caterpillar japan ltd – direct dealers operations.previously reported data has been restated due to: 
a) acquisitions, b) data updates realized from improved accuracy,c) divestitures.The 2011 result is 28.3 percent better than our 2011 target, and 
exceeds our 2020 aspirational goal by 11.8 percent.49
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
energy e fficiency
eXampleSGoalS & pRoGReSS
25%
‘Cutting the lights’ saves energy in fOuntain inn
a simple decision to fit high-efficiency lights with motion sensors throughout Caterpillar’s 
approximately 90,000 square feet (8,361 square meters) fountain inn, S.C., facility is reducing energy consumption and providing savings of more than $11,000 annually. the lights now turn 
off after 10 minutes of inactivity and have contributed to a nearly 25 percent drop in electricity 
consumption, proving that the most efficient lights are the ones that are turned on only when needed.
the move was part of the facility’s “cut the lights and reduce the water” project, which also has 
led to the installation of low-flush toilets, saving approximately 900,000 gallons (3.4 million liters) of water over the first year of installation. Replacing the toilets not only cut water use per flush, it also eliminated several leaks that were detected in the old system. 
iMprOving energy effiCienCy in COrinth
Reducing energy consumption is a continuous goal at Caterpillar’s Cardinal drive facility in Corinth, miss. 
through partnerships with the t ennessee Valley authority and the State of mississippi, the  
facility estimated that 97 percent of their greenhouse gas (GhG) emissions at Corinth come from 
electrical usage at the plant. this allowed the facility to focus on improvements throughout, such as heating, ventilation and air conditioning equipment upgrades and energy control measures. 
the facility initiated these projects and was able to cut electricity consumption by nearly a 
third from 2009 to 2011 – and have reduced GhG emissions by approximately 5,700 metric tons of Co
2e.
this is also helping to fulfill Caterpillar’s goal of reducing absolute GhG emissions.50
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
ghg  emissionsGoalS & pRoGReSS
opeRational Goal
Reduce absolute greenhouse gas emissions from existing facilities by 25 percent.
oVeRView
despite a record increase in production, demand and sales volumes, energy conservation 
projects contributed to realizing absolute GhG within one percent of the target.
peRfoRmanCe SummaRy
20062.962.75
20082.99
20092.16
2010 20112.652.75Absolute million metric tons 
of CO 2e
(Baseline: 2006)25%
The 2011 result is within one percent of our 2011 target. The increase from 2010 is due to a record increase in production, demand and sales volumes in 2011.
note:  data does not include facilities acquired after june 1, 2010, or Caterpillar japan ltd – direct dealers operations.
previously reported data has been restated due to: 
a) acquisitions, b) data updates realized from improved accuracy,c) divestitures.51
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
ghg  emissions
eXampleSGoalS & pRoGReSS
25%
effiCient lighting slashes greenhOuse gas eMissiOns
lighting upgrades at Caterpillar’s facility in Clayton, n.C., will save an estimated 1,900 mwh 
of electricity and cut greenhouse gases by approximately 1,000 metric tons Co 2e per year.
the previous lighting at the Clayton plant was more than 10 years old, inefficient, and 
was requiring increasing amounts of maintenance. poor lighting in some areas meant 
visibility was also affected, potentially affecting work quality and posing a potential safety hazard to employees.
the Clayton facility replaced more than 900 fixtures with higher-efficiency lamps, combined with 
motion sensors that ensure lights are switched off when there are no personnel in the area.transpOrtatiOn prOCess reduCes greenhOuse gas eMissiOns
a Caterpillar european t ransportation team implemented a network Control Center collaborative 
transportation process, enabling consolidation of parts flow across the supply base, optimal selection of transport companies to haul parts, and dynamic choice of transport mode to final 
delivery. Carriers handling Cat
® equipment will avoid the use of multiple cross-docks necessary 
to route Cat® parts to plants. Shipping more parts together in larger shipments from each supply 
location will reduce trailer utilization of trucks delivering parts to plants. less trucks and less 
handling results in a reduction of total kilometers traveled. 
the network Control Center is expected to reduce distance traveled by approximately 12 percent, 
which is a reduction of approximately 1,200 metric tons of Co 2e annually and a reduction in 
freight costs of approximately 15 percent annually.
eleCtriCity COnservatiOn prOJeCts  
reduCe greenhOuse gas eMissiOns
Caterpillar’s plant in hosur, india, reduced greenhouse gas emissions in 2011 through a set of 
energy conservation measures, including:
•  Increasing the efficiency of the operation of pumps
•  Replacing sodium vapor light fixtures with more energy-efficient fixtures
•  Improving the operation of cooling tower fans
•  Installing 24 LED light fixtures in place of metal-halide light fixtures
•  Using energy created during generator set testing to power cooling blower fan s, instead of 
using power from the facility.
these changes saved approximately 187,000 kwh, equal to more than 5 percent of electricity  
consumption at the facility.
(continued)52
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
ghg  emissions
eXampleSGoalS & pRoGReSS
25%
 
replaCing prOduCtiOn line Cuts eMissiOns  
and BOOsts safety in BOOnville
the Clean and Coat adhesive line at Caterpillar’s high performance molded products facility in 
boonville, mo., is an important production facility that manufactures highly engineered rubber and plastic component parts. Replacing and redesigning this 17-year-old production line has 
reduced reliance on natural gas by approximately 16 percent, cutting greenhouse gas emissions 
by approximately 13 percent and saving approximately $50,000 a year in energy costs.
Generation of hazardous waste has also been reduced nearly 60 percent; and the use of cleaning 
chemicals, solvents and adhesives has been cut significantly.53
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
alternative/  
renewable  
energyGoalS & pRoGReSS
opeRational Goal
use alternative/renewable sources to meet 20% of our energy needs.
oVeRView
an enterprise-level energy management team was formed in 2011.
individual projects will be launched as identified through research and analysis.20%
14.8
2010 201113.814.8Percent renewable energy 
(Renewable electrical energy use/total  
electrical energy use) x 100peRfoRmanCe SummaRy
The 2011 result indicates good progress toward achieving 
our 2020 aspirational goal.
Alternative Energy: Caterpillar is defining alternative energy 
sources and the calculation methodology. 
Renewable Energy: Energy resources that are naturally 
replenishing over a short period of time and virtually inexhaustible such as wind power, solar power, hydro power, geothermal power, tidal power, wave power, biomass power and anaerobic digestion.
note: data does not include facilities acquired after june 1, 2010, or 
Caterpillar japan ltd – direct dealers operations.54
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
GoalS & pRoGReSS
20%
eXampleS
intrOduCing a BiOgas generatiOn faCility in india
managers at Caterpillar’s facility in thiruvallur, india, installed a system that turns waste into 
biogas. this system converts canteen food waste into energy. this renewable resource is then used directly in electrical and heating applications back in the company’s canteen.
thiruvallur has reduced the canteen’s use of electricity and liquefied petroleum gas. the onsite 
biogas solution recycles up to 1,000 kg (1 ton) of food waste daily, and eliminates the use of vehicles that were previously used when disposing of food waste off site.
sOlar energy saves water and Cuts COsts
installing solar panels has allowed Caterpillar’s plant in hosur, india, to recycle the water used to test engines, significantly reducing the use of resources – and saving approximately $150,000 a year.
plant managers realized it was wasteful not to reuse the hot water which, after testing, contains 
diesel fuel and a chemical that prevents rusting. by installing solar panels that can keep the water at the required temperature, it can be stored for reuse in testing rather than being allowed 
to cool down, after which it is of no use.
the move has cut back on the use of approximately 330 liters (87 gallons) of diesel fuel a day, 
saved approximately 6,440 liters (1,700 gallons) per day of water, and approximately 1,500 liters (395 gallons) of rust preventive each month.alternative/ renewable e nergy
eXampleS55
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
2006649090
200878
200980
2010 201187Percent recycled 
Absolute pounds recycled waste/absolute 
pounds total waste x 100
(Baseline: 2006)wasteGoalS & pRoGReSS
opeRational Goal
eliminate waste by reducing waste generation and reusing or recycling all that remains.
oVeRView
we continue to make gains in this effort due to the general population at Caterpillar embracing 
recycling efforts on a global basis. w e reduce the generation of waste as much as possible 
and, for the remainder, find types of beneficial reuse (such as waste to energy) or recycle. 
111 facilities are recycling at 90 percent or greater. if metals are included, 173 facilities are recycling at 90 percent or greater.
peRfoRmanCe SummaRy
The 2011 result is 8 percent above our 2011 target. Sustained 
improvement was made from 2009 to 2011. If metals are included, our recycling rate in 2011 was 95 percent. This metric does include energy recovery from waste to energy incineration. Achieving such a high percentage on this metric will allow us to look at unique opportunities to further increase our material efficiency.
note:  data does not include facilities acquired after june 1, 2010, or Caterpillar japan ltd – direct dealers operations.
previously reported data has been restated due to: 
a) acquisitions, b) data updates realized from improved accuracy,c) divestitures.56
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
GoalS & pRoGReSS
waste
eXampleS
new paint teChnOlOgy drastiCally Cuts hazardOus waste
Converting paint from liquid to powder coat form has reduced hazardous waste by approximately 
99 percent at Caterpillar’s building Construction products Sanford facility in north Carolina.
under the liquid paint regime, it was necessary to clean the paint pistols and the lines that feed 
them with a solvent. the solvent then had to be disposed of as hazardous waste, averaging 0.69 gallons/unit (2.6 liters/unit). Converting to powder coating has eliminated this waste stream. liquid paint is still used for touch ups but generates only approximately 0.01 gallons 
(0.04 liters) of hazardous waste/unit.
emissions of volatile organic compounds and hazardous air pollutants have also been cut by 
approximately 98 percent as a result.
reCyCling Oil saves resOurCes and MOney
Caterpillar’s east peoria, ill., manufacturing site has been recycling nearly 53,000 gallons (200,600 liters) of oil at a cost avoidance of approximately $358,000 since the project’s inception in 2010.
the tractor assembly process was wasting hydraulic engine and transmission oil each year 
because the different oils being used on the assembly line were drained into catch pans where they were commingled with other oils generated in the building and then shipped off site 
for recycling.
the new system catches the oil at the point of generation and immediately pumps it into oil 
reclamation units. this has also reduced the need to buy approximately 23,800 gallons (87,500 liters) of new oil, cutting carbon emissions associated with processing and delivery.
reduCing Oil waste in india
Caterpillar’s machines division in thiruvallur, india, has been looking carefully at how oil waste can be reduced when assembling off-highway trucks on its production line.
improvements to date include carrying out oil-level checks in more efficient ways that allow oil 
to be recycled, filtering used oil during operations and implementing safe storage and handling procedures. Such innovations have reduced the amount of waste oil by approximately 70 percent so far.57
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
water  
ConsumptionGoalS & pRoGReSS
opeRational Goal
hold water consumption flat.
oVeRView
in 2011, we continued to execute the water plan and tools developed in 2008. mapping the 
true cost of water use is in progress for our two largest water use facilities. w e continue to 
look for replication opportunities at other sites.
peRfoRmanCe SummaRy
20065.89
5.165.16
20085.54
20094.94
2010 20114.82Absolute billion gallons used 
(Baseline: 2006)
The 2011 result is 12.4 percent better than our 2011 target.
note:  data does not include facilities acquired after june 1, 2010, or Caterpillar japan ltd – direct dealers operations.
previously reported data has been restated due to: 
a) acquisitions, b) data updates realized from improved accuracy,c) divestitures.58
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
GoalS & pRoGReSS
water Consumption
eXampleS
natural landsCaping is healthier fOr lOCal water
our manufacturing site in east peoria, ill., has replaced its traditionally managed turf grass with 
a natural landscape regime eliminating the need to use toxic substances such as fertilizers, herbicides and pesticides. this is better for the environment as nutrient run-off from fertilizers 
can have a detrimental effect on local surface water. producing and transporting the fertilizer 
also consumed significant amounts of energy.
the natural landscaping has the additional benefit of cutting C0
2 emissions from mowing 
machines by an estimated 70 percent per year [up to 76 lbs. (0.04 metric tons) C0 2e], as well 
as approximately $60,000 in maintenance cost savings.
siMple sOlutiOns save water in MeXiCO
our Remanufacturing site in nuevo laredo, mexico, saved a total of approximately 385,000 
gallons (1.5 million liters) of water in 2011 by implementing some simple savings measures.
the site replaced electric flushing systems for the toilets with a manual, dual-flush toilet, saving 
up to half a gallon per flush. w ater flushing urinals were also replaced with dry urinals, which 
saved approximately 53,000 gallons (200,000 liters) of water per urinal per year.
iMprOved wastewater treatMent reduCes deMand On lOCal supply
until recently, Caterpillar’s joint venture asiat rak in t ianjin, China, which makes undercarriages 
for various vehicles, could treat only up to 70 m3 of the wastewater it generated each day. 
the hurdle that they faced was that the current quality of treatment system provided was  
not high enough to allow the water to be recycled within the plant. Rebuilding the water treatment plant brought about a major change. the new wastewater treatment facility  
doubled treatment capacity to approximately 150 m
3 per day, and was able to meet higher 
wastewater treatment standards.
as a result of meeting these standards, wastewater at asiat rak t ianjin can now be fully recycled 
within the facility. Caterpillar is saving approximately $22,000 a year in water bills and has reduced 
its demand on the local water supply.59
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
33Buildings/projects designed 
to LEED or comparable criterialeed
leadership in e nergy 
and e nvironmental 
design GoalS & pRoGReSS
opeRational Goal
design all new construction to meet leadership in energy and environmental design (leed) 
or comparable green building criteria.
oVeRView
the collection of buildings or projects represents varying degrees of certification or certifiable 
status attained or sought, or that are targeted, in accordance with either the u.S. Green building Council’s new Construction, existing buildings, or Commercial interiors certification processes, or comparable green building criteria.
the total of 33 buildings/projects consists of 31 new construction and two existing buildings. 
peRfoRmanCe SummaRy
eXampleS
Caterpillar 2011 leed status
the following facilities received certification in accordance with the u.S. Green building 
Council’s leed-nC (leadership in energy and environmental design – new Construction) certification process or comparable criteria: 
•  SILVER – Seguin, Texas, Engine Facility
the following new facilities are seeking certification in accordance with the u.S. Green building 
Council’s leed-nC (leadership in energy and environmental design – new Construction) 
certification process:
•  Target GOLD – Peoria, Ill., Caterpillar Visitors Center
•  Target SILVER or Certified – Clayton, Ohio, Cat Logistics  
distribution Center
•  Target Certified – Rayong, Thailand, Underground Mining Facility
•  Target Certified – Rayong, Thailand, Medium Tractors Facility
•  Target Certified – Winston-Salem, N.C., Axle Manufacturing Facility
•  Target Certifiable – Wuxi, China, Upper & Lower Power Train Facility
•  Target Certifiable – Wuxi, China, Hydraulic Cylinder Manufacturing Facility60
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
health and  
safetypRoduCtS, SeRViCeS and SolutionS Goal
provide leadership in the safety of people in, on and around our products.
oVeRView
Caterpillar offers a suite of safety services to customers either individually or as part 
of a fleet management Services agreement and remains committed to expanding the availability of safety information and materials.GoalS & pRoGReSS
peRfoRmanCe SummaRy
operator and jobsite health and safety is promoted at Safety .Cat.Com™ to help our customers use our products safely and improve their safety 
performance. this dedicated website includes safety culture solutions that offer assessments, coaching and training to develop a stronger 
safety culture.
eXampleS
refined design delivers safety features
the refined design for the Cat® d11t and d11t Carrydozer includes a new operator-presence 
system that locks out the power train and hydraulic system to avoid unintentional machine 
movement when the operator is entering or exiting the cab. entering and exiting can also be 
done via an optional hydraulically actuated access ladder that deploys and stores in seconds. 
an optional sound-suppression package reduces average spectator sound power levels, a benefit to both the operator and the surrounding environment. operator comfort features include ergonomic joystick steering, automatic climate control and precision blade control and positioning.
wheel lOader OperatOr COMfOrt
improved production and efficiency can be achieved if the operator is comfortable and does not become fatigued. the operator sound level on the new Cat
® 980K wheel loader has been 
reduced by approximately 50 percent. new cab mounts decrease noise and vibration for the operator. the result is a comfortable work environment, helping the operator remain efficient 
and productive. a joystick steering system combines operator comfort and precision control to 
provide a sustainable work environment for the operator. the system automatically adjusts the effort needed to tilt the ergonomic joystick based on ground speed, resulting in superior control in all applications and climates.
(continued)61
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
health and s afety
eXampleSGoalS/pRoGReSS
OBJeCt deteCtiOn
the more equipment operators know about the working environment around them, the more 
safely they will be able to operate their equipment. object detection enhances visibility of  the near vicinity surrounding large machines by providing visual indications of objects in close 
proximity. a combination of cameras, radars and in-cab display automatically detect hazards 
such as other equipment or vehicles within critical zones around the machine – in front, at the rear or within the turning radius on each side, depending on machine type.
stairway & hOOd lift assist retrOfits
Caterpillar is committed to providing customers with safe and reliable products and services. one key area of focus is preventing slips, trips and falls when mounting or dismounting a piece of equipment. the new diagonal stairway retrofit for Cat
® 777C and 777d off-highway trucks 
provides improved access to and from the bumper walkway and cab. diagonal stairway retrofits are also available for Cat 785 and 789 off-highway trucks. powered access systems for select 
large mining trucks and track-type tractors further improve ingress and egress. 
the hood lift assist retrofit for select large mining trucks reduces the effort required to open 
and close the front and rear engine hoods. maintenance-free mechanical spring struts reduce 
lifting forces and provide controlled motion for closing the hoods.
62
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
GoalS & pRoGReSS
pRoduCtS, SeRViCeS and SolutionS Goal
Reduce customer greenhouse gas emissions by 20 percent.
oVeRView
we want to help our customers achieve their emission reduction goals, too. their needs 
provide potentially valuable business opportunities for us.
peRfoRmanCe SummaRyCustomers are demanding greater fuel efficiency and using our technology to help them reduce GhG emissions.Customer  
ghg  emissions20%
new eXCavatOr dOes MOre wOrk with less fuel
the new Cat® 349e hydraulic excavator delivers more engine and hydraulic horsepower than 
its predecessor, and averages five percent improved fuel efficiency in typical applications. 
decreases in fuel consumption result in a decrease of combustion of carbon, reducing green-
house gases.
the 349e operates on either ultra-low-sulfur diesel fuel (ulSd), or a blend of ulSd and 
20 percent biodiesel, and meets stringent u.S. environmental protection agency t ier 4 
interim emissions standards.
fuel-saving features include:
•  An engine idle shutdown setting – which allows selection for how long the machine is 
permitted to idle before shutting down 
•  Isochronous speed control – a system that maintains constant engine speed, regardless of load
•  An economy power mode used during less demanding applications
•  A hydraulic system that recycles hydraulic energy and hydraulic oil.
(continued)
refined design delivers fuel-effiCient prOduCtivity
the refined design for the Cat® d11t and d11t Carrydozer delivers fuel-efficient productivity. 
new for the d11t and d11t Cd is the enhanced auto Shift (eaS) system, designed to conserve 
fuel by automatically selecting the optimal reverse gear and engine speed, based on load and 
desired ground speed. when the eaS mode is not activated, an auto downshift feature auto-
matically changes gears down to most efficiently handle loads. decreases in fuel consumption result in a decrease of combustion of carbon, reducing greenhouse gases.63
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
GoalS & pRoGReSS
Customer ghg  emissions
eXampleS20%
wheel lOader fuel eCOnOMy iMprOveMents
a primary advantage of the new Cat® 980K wheel loader is fuel economy improvement in typical 
loader applications. furthermore, the fuel that is burned produces 90 percent less particulate 
matter (pm) and 50 percent fewer oxides of nitrogen (no x) than its predecessor, the 980h. the 
980K was designed to be almost fully reused, with a 96 percent recyclability rate, and provides the foundation by which resources can be conserved for years to come.
ultra lean Burn upgrade
Retrofits can provide the latest lean burn gas engine technology for Cat® G3500 petroleum 
engines in existing gas compression applications. the upgrade for G3508, G3512, and G3516 engines utilizes state-of-the-art electronic controls and sensor technology to improve fuel 
efficiencies, and reduces oxides of nitrogen (no
x) emissions.64
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
GoalS & pRoGReSS
pRoduCtS, SeRViCeS and SolutionS Goal
increase customer energy efficiency by 20%.
oVeRView
efficiency gains will vary by product, application and segment. w e continue to work with our 
product groups and customers to define applicable metrics.
peRfoRmanCe SummaRywe collaborate with our dealers to deliver highly customized and site-specific solutions that result in optimized use of our equipment and an 
improved bottom line for our customers. w e offer training to our customer operators on how to use our products more efficiently.Customer  
energy e fficiency20%
eXampleS
teChnOlOgies fOr effiCienCy
Caterpillar is constantly developing and refining advanced technologies to make equipment 
more productive and efficient, and to effectively manage equipment fleets and operations.
Cat® products for earthmoving solutions, including accuGrade™ Grade Control System and 
Computer aided earthmoving System, combine the latest global positioning system technology 
with sophisticated electronic control modules and database tools to help customers increase 
productivity, lower costs, improve accuracy and sustain natural resources by increasing 
fuel efficiency.
Cat® mining technologies, including Cat® mineStar™ System and product link, improve  
productivity and enhance safety and are building blocks for autonomous mine sites of the future.
Cat® products apply advanced technologies and state-of-the-art information systems to provide 
updated minute-by-minute fleet and ongoing operations information – including machine location 
and status, equipment health and more – to assist in the most efficient operations.
Cat® engines meet tough emissions standards while delivering performance and efficiency.
(continued)65
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
Customer e nergy e fficiency
eXampleSGoalS & pRoGReSS
20%
988h wheel lOader eXeMplifies  energy effiCienCy
the Cat® 988h performance plus wheel loader update exemplifies energy efficiency. 
fuel/energy efficiency:
•  The 988H Performance Plus with the new Performance Series Bucket offers th e benefit of 
up to 10 percent increase in productivity
•  The new Positive Flow Control hydraulics has demonstrated fuel savings of up  to 5 percent
•  Factoring in the combination of productivity and fuel savings, improvements of up to 10 percent 
can be realized
•  At a minimal sacrifice to productivity (5-10 percent loss), customers may realize an additional 
15-20 percent in fuel savings with the fuel management System (fmS).
new with the 988h performance plus are two additional fuel-saving modes of operation available that allow the operator to choose the level of fuel savings to be achieved. the operator can easily accommodate changing production demands by moving between three modes of operation: full power (fmS not engaged), balanced power and maximum fuel Savings. additionally, the 
988h performance plus introduced auto idle Kickdown and idle Shutdown features to minimize 
fuel burn, and reduce gaseous emissions.
generatOr hyBrid pOwer sOlutiOn
telecommunications operators are rapidly moving to employ generator hybrid power solutions 
that blend energy storage, solar photovoltaic (pV) panels and small wind turbines into a solution that could save hundreds of millions of liters of diesel fuel annually and avoid millions of tons 
of Co
2 emissions. Caterpillar recently piloted a hybrid system consisting of a Cat® generator 
set, pV solar panels and small wind turbines integrated into a complete solution. t he solution 
is expected to reduce fuel consumption by more than 95 percent, also resulting in reduced emissions and owning and operating costs.
the Caterpillar hybrid power solution has the potential to increase operating efficiencies, as 
well as meet or exceed stringent environmental requirements. hybrids are particularly well 
suited for applications in remote areas, where electric utility service does not exist or would 
be too costly to extend. in comparison with the costs of grid extension or the high costs of fuel delivery to remote locations, hybrids can offer several benefits to off-grid customers: 
•  Decreased fuel consumption by 30-100 percent
•  Extended maintenance and replacement intervals
•  Payback periods of three years or less in many instances
•  Configurability to provide the optimal solution for quickest payback, or minim um (or zero) 
fuel consumption.
Global customer interest in hybrid power solutions has grown significantly in the last few years, 
not only in telecommunications, but also in other segments such as off-grid village power and 
military applications. it is expected that hybrid solutions will continue to grow into many applica-
tions where Cat
® generator sets are used today, from telecommunications to mine sites.66
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
GoalS & pRoGReSS
pRoduCtS, SeRViCeS and SolutionS Goal
increase customer materials efficiency by 20 percent.
oVeRView
Remanufactured, rebuilt and certified used parts provide cost savings to our customers and 
help us achieve our goal of using materials more efficiently. Retrofits and upgrades provide significant customer benefits through the avoidance of obsolescence of older generation parts.
peRfoRmanCe SummaRy
we work to enable our customers to conserve and reuse resources.Customer  
Materials  
efficiency20%
eXampleS
BEfORE   
REBUILDAfTER   
REBUILDCat® Certified reBuild
Cat® machines are so durable that instead of scrapping older models, rebuilding them to  
excellent reliability, performance and durability is possible, providing a second lease on life. 
Rebuilding customer equipment requires 50 to 60 percent less energy by reusing 85 to 95 percent 
by weight of the materials from the original product. by restoring used equipment, Cat® dealers 
minimize waste while offering high-quality, cost-effective solutions to our customers. it’s good 
for business and for the environment.
Cat Certified Rebuilds are also available for power trains, hydraulics and machine components.
reManufaCturing
Caterpillar restores near end-of-life parts to original engineering specifications through  
remanufacturing, an advanced form of recycling. this makes both economic and environmental 
sense because it reduces waste and consumption of raw materials, and provides a lower cost to 
the customer. through remanufacturing, Caterpillar makes one of its greatest contributions to 
sustainable development – keeping nonrenewable resources in circulation for multiple lifetimes.
to support the fast-growing asia-pacific remanufacturing business, in 2011, Caterpillar opened 
remanufacturing facilities in Shanghai, China, and Singapore. the new facility in Shanghai 
remanufactures pumps, motors and engine components. the new facility in Singapore remanufactures major components for large off-highway trucks and other mining equipment, including engines, transmissions, final drives and torque converters.
(continued)67
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
GoalS & pRoGReSS
Customer Materials e fficiency
eXampleS 20%
sustainaBility in large Mining truCks
a variety of features in large Cat® mining trucks improve sustainability in areas of decreasing 
waste and extending component life, as well as lowering emissions levels. longer-lasting 
components feature state-of-the-art technologies and enhanced electronics. the trucks are 
now more serviceable – so less time is spent on maintenance and more time on hauling. Cat® 
mining trucks are designed to be rebuilt multiple times with service lives regularly reaching 
beyond 100,000 hours. major parts are reusable, and extensive salvage guidelines have been 
developed for our dealers to maximize value to customers. fewer new parts means fewer  
resources used. Components are designed for remanufacture to provide multiple service lives. 
Sustainability features of the new Cat® 793f include continuous rear axle filtration, extended 
life filters and extended maintenance intervals that aid in decreasing the amount of waste oil 
generated. engines with advanced technology maintain fuel efficiency while contributing fewer 
emissions to the environment. advanced Surface t echnology replaces hard chrome coatings 
on some steel parts. this technology improves wear resistance and reduces repair time. 
elimination of chrome reduces environmental impact.
Brake wear indiCatOrs
Cat® brake w ear indicators for current and legacy off-highway trucks eliminate the risk 
of brake fluid loss and reduce service time.  Retrofit of the brake wear indicator enables a noninvasive service procedure to quickly check brake disc wear. with the brake wear 
indicator, service technicians no longer need to bleed the brakes for routine wear checks, 
eliminating the opportunity for fluid loss and significantly reducing service time.  reBuilding generatOr sets
available excess engine cores and market need from Cat® dealers for rebuilt/used generator 
sets led to a program to rebuild Cat® generator sets. the rebuilding began early in 2011, and 
demand grew throughout the year.
the program enables Caterpillar and Cat® dealers to reduce scrap material, take back used 
core from the market and leverage remanufacturing salvage technology to provide additional 
engine and component life. demand for power continues to increase worldwide, and offering 
a low-cost solution to the market provides an additional avenue for customers to purchase a 
reliable Cat® generator set.68
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
WORKPLACE SAfETY
Recordable Injury frequency (RIf)
(Recordable injuries per 200,000 hours worked)Lost-Time Case frequency (LTCfR)
(lost-time injuries per 200,000 hours worked )
2011 2007 2008 2009 20101.032.20
1.66
1.17 1.18
2011 2007 2008 2009 20100.280.71
0.48
0.36 0.35
EnVIROnMEnTAL IMPACT 1, 2
Absolute GHG
(absolute million metric tons of Co 2e)
(Baseline: 2006)
2011 2007 2008 2009 20102.752.912.99
2.162.65Water Use
(absolute billion gallons used)
(Baseline: 2006)
2011 2007 2008 2008 20105.165.435.54
4.944.82Percent Recycled 3
(absolute pounds recycled waste/ absolute pounds total waste) x 100
2011 2007 2008 2009 201090
70788087Percent Alternate/ 
Renewable Sources 4
(Renewable electrical energy use/total 
electrical energy use) x 100Energy Efficiency
(dollars of revenue/absolute gigajoules energy use)
(Baseline: 2006)
2011 2007 2008 2009 20102,047
1,6201,754
1,5411,639
201013.8
201114.81.  data does not include facilities acquired after june 1, 2010, or Caterpillar japan ltd –  
direct dealers operations.
2.  data prior to 2011 has been restated due to: a) acquisitions, b) data updates realized  
from improved accuracy, c) divestitures.
3.  percent recycled waste excludes the weight of metal, which is 100 percent recycled.  
including metal raises the level to 95 percent in 2011.
4.  based only on renewable energy. alternative energy will be included in the future.
5.  data does not include progress Rail operations.
REMAnUf ACTURInG (REMAn) 5
Reman Business Growth
(percent revenue increase over 2001 base)Reman End-of-Life
“Take Back” by Weight
(millions of pounds of end-of-life  
material received)Reman End-of-Life
“Take Back” Percent
(actual end-of-life returns/eligible returns) 
x 100
2011 2007 2008 2009 2010205
110133
104160
2011 2007 2008 2009 201095 93 939194
2011 2007 2008 2008 2010161
141 142
122134Cat® Certified Rebuild  
Business Growth
(percent revenue increase over 2001 base)
2011 2007 2008 2009 2010998
237385 388607CAT® CERTIfIED REBUILD 2, 5perfOrManCe at a glanCe
these graphs provide a snapshot of performance for certain safety and sustainability indicators.GoalS/pRoGReSS69
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
ConneCtionS
advisOrs, COMMents  
& affiliatiOns
Caterpillar works with a wide range of individuals and organizations to promote 
sustainability globally.
our advisory council of eminent sustainability experts provides us with independent 
advice and challenges us to continue improving.70
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
eXternal advisOrs  
& COMMentsConneCtionS
(continued)our thanks to the advisory council of experts who provided their comments on Caterpillar’s sustainability progress. inclusion below indicates they provided feedback; it does not indicate they endorse the contents of the report. Comments below are advisory in nature and do not necessarily reflect corporate policy.
______________________________________________________________
luKe danielSonSustainable Development Strategies Group
______________________________________________________________
GeoRGe C. eadSSenior Consultant, Charles River Associatesmanufacturers tend to concentrate mostly on the efficiency of their equipment in terms of emissions or energy used over time. Caterpillar is noticeable for its dual focus on the efficiency of the equipment (per unit time operating) and the amount of time it takes for the equipment to complete the job. this is not only good business but represents a “win-win” in terms of sustainability.
______________________________________________________________
bRuCe m. eVeRettProfessor, The Fletcher School, Tufts University 
______________________________________________________________
maRGaRet flaheRtyChief Operating Officer, World Business Council for Sustainable Developmentin less than 20 years there will be three billion middle class consumers needing products and services. this will boost demand for energy and infrastructure. in a resource-constrained world, those companies that can meet market needs sustainably (low pollution and sustainable use of resources, including energy) will secure a powerful competitive advantage. Caterpillar stands to be a winner if it continues on its path to sustainability by leveraging its two main assets: technology and talented people.
______________________________________________________________71
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
ConneCtionS
(continued)bRadley GooGinS
Professor, Carroll School of Management;  Former Director, Center for Corporate Citizenship, Boston Collegethe social, political and sustainability issues bubbling up and over global corporations will only continue to redefine the boundaries, roles and responsibilities of business in society. the blurring of democracy and capitalism, the competition between emerging economies and the scarcity of natural resources and the emergence of a growing awareness and activism around wealth and income inequality, all present an amazing set of challenges and paradoxes for companies trying to balance growth and sustainable development. never has business leadership from companies such as Caterpillar been more critical, and the challenges and opportunities to step up into these new roles will require the flexibility of a ballet dancer and the firmness of a disciplined athlete.
______________________________________________________________
Stephanie hanfoRd-haSSPresident, Connectivity Consulting, LLCi congratulate Caterpillar on its efforts to reduce its GhG emissions as well as those of its customers. i am excited that the company has decided to have a strategic focus on energy this year. i would like to see the company ramp up sales around renewable energy generation, particularly through methane capture sources – both big and small. as methane is a fast-acting climate forcer, reducing methane emissions is of particular importance to help the world achieve near-term gains in climate protection. Caterpillar should be actively pursuing a wider range of customers for methane capture in the waste management, mining and agricultural industries. 
______________________________________________________________
StuaRt l. haRtS.C. Johnson Chair in Sustainable Global Enterprise,  
Johnson Graduate School of Management,  Cornell University
______________________________________________________________
thomaS loVejoyBiodiversity Chair, Heinz Center for Science, Economics and  the Environment 
______________________________________________________________eXternal advisOrs  & COMMents 
(COnt.)
72
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
ConneCtionS
maRK b. milStein
Professor and Director, Center for Sustainable Global Enterprise, Cornell University ______________________________________________________________
william R. moomawProfessor and Director, Center for International Environment and Resource Policy,  
The Fletcher School, Tufts University 
______________________________________________________________
KeVin SweeneyWriter and Consultant on  Climate Change and  Sustainability Issues
______________________________________________________________
william a. w allaCe
Past President and Member of the Governing Board, Engineers Without Borders – USASociety has only recently begun to understand that the world’s resources and ecological carrying capacity are not only finite, but are being used up faster than they can be replaced, replenished or restored. this situation makes life especially difficult for the developing nations, which may not have sufficient 
economic means nor the technological wherewithal to meet basic needs. if done well, Caterpillar’s global reach, combined with cost-efficient product and service offerings, can help developing nations make substantial progress in improving the quality of life of their citizens.
______________________________________________________________
duRwood zaelKePresident, Institute for Governance & Sustainable Development;  
Director, International Network for Environmental Compliance and Enforcement
______________________________________________________________eXternal advisOrs  & COMMents 
(COnt.)
73
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
Our affiliatiOnsConneCtionS
(continued)dow Jones sustainability indexes
included since 2000; sector leader 2006-2007-2008-2010
sustainability-index.com
ethisphere
world’s most ethical Companies 2007-2008-2009-2010-2011
ethisphere.com
asia-pacific partnership on Clean development and Climate
Solar t urbines is a task force member for the asia-pacific partnership on Clean development and Climate, an innovative 
effort to accelerate the development and deployment of clean energy technologies.asiapacificpartnership.org
Business Council for sustainable energy
Solar t urbines is a member of the board of directors of the business Council for Sustainable energy, which promotes 
clean energy technologies as solutions to economic, environmental and national security challenges.bcse.org
Business roundtable
Caterpillar is a member of the business Roundtable, which supports sustainable development through its task force on environment, technology and the economy that sponsors the S.e.e. Change initiative (Society, environment, economy) and through Climate ReSol Ve (Responsible environmental Steps, opportunities to lead by Voluntary efforts).
businessroundtable.org
diesel t echnology forum
Caterpillar is a member of the diesel t echnology forum, a leading resource and educator on the importance and unique 
value of diesel engines, fuels, equipment and emissions control technology.dieselforum.org
energy t echnologies institute
Caterpillar is a member of the energy t echnologies institute, a u.K.-based public-private organization focused on 
projects that create affordable, reliable, clean energy for heat, power and transport.energytechnologies.co.uk
the nature Conservancy
Caterpillar has an active role on the international leadership Council and became the lead corporate donor in the Great Rivers partnership project in 2005.nature.org74
2011 SuStainability RepoRt – 
CateRpillaR on eneRGy
Our affiliatiOns (COnt.)
Opportunity international
through the Caterpillar foundation, Caterpillar collaborates with opportunity international to provide microfinance loans, 
savings, insurance and training to over two million people working their way out of poverty in the developing world.opportunity.org
tropical forest foundation
Caterpillar became a founding member of the t ropical forest foundation in 1990. the t ropical forest foundation works to 
advance environmental stewardship, economic prosperity and social responsibility through sustainable forest management.tropicalforestfoundation.org
u.s. green Building Council
in the u.S., Caterpillar is a member of the u.S. Green building Council, a nonprofit community of leaders working to make cost-efficient and energy-saving buildings available to everyone within a generation.usgbc.org
woody Biomass Coalition
Caterpillar is a member of the w oody biomass Coalition which provides advocacy, education, information and outreach 
to public and private entities to promote research, development and funding for sustainable woody biomass utilization and markets in the u.S.woodybiomass.net
world Business Council for sustainable development (wBCsd)
Caterpillar is a member of the w orld business Council for Sustainable development, a Ceo-led, global association of 
some 200 companies dealing exclusively with business and sustainable development.wbcsd.org
world food programme
through the Caterpillar foundation, Caterpillar collaborates with the w orld food programme, the world’s largest 
humanitarian agency, to fight hunger worldwide, delivering food wherever and whenever it is needed most.wfp.org
world resources institute
Caterpillar’s Chairman and Ceo is a member of the board of directors of the w orld Resources institute, an environmental 
think tank that goes beyond research to find practical ways to protect the earth and improve people’s lives.wri.orgConneCtionS
